(audience applause) - I'm here to talk about our future, both the future of our and about your own personal future. And nobody really knows look like in 2050. The only thing we know for a very, very different world than today. And perhaps, the most about the future is that humans will soon be hackable animals, There is a lot of talk these days about hacking computers and email accounts and smart phones and bank accounts, but we're actually entering the era in which it will be possible Now what does it mean It means to create an algorithm that can understand you better and can therefore predict your choices, manipulate your desires, and In order to control and manipulate you, the algorithms will not This is impossible. Nobody can know anything perfectly. They will just need to than you know yourself. Which is not impossible, don't know themselves very well. Often, people don't know about themselves. I know this from my own It was only when I was 21 that I was gay, after living And today, I keep thinking back to the time when I was 15 or 16 or 17, and I try to understand, It should have been so obvious, but the fact is that I didn't know. And that's hardly exceptional. Lots of gay men spend not knowing something very But imagine the situation in a few years when an algorithm can tell any teenager exactly where he or she is just by collecting and One way to do it, there are many ways, but one way to do it, is to perhaps just to track eye movements. The computer can track my eye movements when I surf the Internet or watch YouTube and analyze what my eyes say, of a sexy guy and a sexy girl walking together hand Where do my eyes focus Now even if you wouldn't like to hear it from an algorithm what happens, let's say, in some birthday party and somebody has the brilliant idea that, hey, I just heard that tells you your sexual orientation, and wouldn't it be so much testing themselves on this algorithm with everybody else watching What would you do in such a situation? Would you just walk away? And even if you do walk away, from yourself, from your classmates, you will not be able to hide from Amazon, or from the Secret As you surf the web, or watch YouTube, or just walk down the street, the algorithms will be and hacking you in the or a corporation or some organization. Maybe you still don't but Coca Cola already knows it, so next time they show they choose to use the and not the version with And next day when you go to the shop, you choose to buy Coke and not Pepsi, and you don't even know why. You think you did it from your free will. They know why you did it, and such information Now, I know, of course, but everybody has some Now, what do you really need in order to hack a human being? You need two things, just two things. You need a good understanding of biology, and especially brain science. And you need a lot of computing power. Now, in the past, for thousands of human history, nobody and nobody had enough computing power, in order to hack human beings. So even if the Secret 24 hours a day, watching they still couldn't know inside your brain. They still couldn't really or predict your choices or But soon, corporations enough understanding of biology and enough computing power to hack humans. And when this happens, and it is already beginning to happen, then authority will gradually shift from humans to algorithms. And this is already beginning to happen in more and more fields, even without any government coercion, people are willingly entrusting more and more authority to the algorithms. We trust Facebook to tell us what is new. We trust Google search We trust Google maps Netflix tells us what to watch. And Amazon tells us what to buy. Eventually, within 10 or 20 or 30 years, such algorithms could also tell you what to study at college, and whom to marry, and And as algorithms become better, they cannot only guide and control humans, they might also replace And this even true, or especially true, of jobs that demand a good For example, there is a about self-driving cars, but even in order to self-driving vehicles, or the computers that drive these vehicles, they need not just to know they need to understand humans. They need to understand and anticipate the behavior, both of human customers, and also of human pedestrians. They need, for example, to know, to recognize the difference and an 18-year-old and a 40-year-old that are approaching the road, and they need to understand in behavior between small Similarly, in order to computers will need to understand not just our diseases, but The computer will have is angry or fearful or depressed. But it's very likely that to do that better than most human doctors, because after all, anger are biochemical phenomena just like flu and cancer and diabetes. If computers can diagnose flu, computers can also diagnose fear. Now of course, as all and in diagnosing diseases all kinds of new jobs, at present, will emerge. But the new jobs, too, and to disappear. Few jobs will remain the same for decades, for a long time. Some people imagine that the will be a one-time event. Let's say in 2025, you have lots of jobs disappear, we have a couple of rough years, and then everything settles in the job market and in the economy. But it will not be like that. It will be a cascade of You have a big revolution in 2025. You have an even bigger because by then AI is so much better, and an even bigger revolution in 2045, which means that to stay relevant, you will have to reinvent yourself, not just once, but 15 years, to reinvent yourself. And the main obstacle for doing that might well be psychological more than economical, technological. It's just very, very hard especially after a certain age. When you're 15 or when you're 18, you're basically creating and it's very, very difficult. But it's much more difficult You probably know by now that They tell you to change all the time, but they don't like to change themselves 'cause it's very difficult. So the most important goals of are probably to develop and your mental balance, a lot of mental balance to deal with a very hectic world, to keep learning throughout your lives, and to repeatedly reinvent yourself and stay ahead of the algorithms. Now I hope all this doesn't It's not the point. I mean, they told me repeatedly, don't scare the kids. (laughs) But I really think that you can handle it, that you can really rise to the challenge. Humans are extremely adaptable beings. If we know what we are and we can find solutions. And I'm really most curious to hear what you have to say about all this. So, thank you for listening, and in a few minutes, we'll have a chance to hear what you think. Thank you. - We're gonna chat for a bit. I like to listen to People are gonna be able 'cause they'll know so much about us. I suppose me, what I was thinking is, if I'd a been a kid in the future, in this sort of dystopian future where that game's invented and that game suggested, and I'd think, well, I'll body part of the appropriate person for what's acceptable I find myself in. For example, if it was the man simply look at the beach. (laughs) (audience laugher) Maybe there's a dolphin in the background. People would perhaps query about his blowhole, but I would say, so like, what we are suggesting is that in this future that that our thoughts will be that will most likely want but in a sense, we already but they don't yet have the So you talked a little, Yval, about developing emotional balance and emotional intelligence. That's interesting to me. How would you suggest that young people begin to undertake that? - Well, that's the big question. It's something which to teach than to teach history, It's really about getting I know, it's the oldest advice You have all these philosophers and saints and gurus for thousands of years telling people know yourself, so there is nothing new about the advice. What is new is that now Like, if you lived in the age of Socrates or Jesus, and you didn't make well, nobody else could But now you have this competition. So different methods work I use meditation. I meditate for two hours a day. Other people, they go to they use sports, you go on a and by that, get to know yourself better. Whatever works for you is fine, but the main thing to remember is that you have competition. - It's interesting that you make are activities that exist outside of the sphere of work. It's interesting also, isn't in the field of education, that you receive relates where you become a worker, where the skills that you have acquired as a result of your educational experience mean that you are of use to society, that you are now a functioning component. But all of the activities to build self knowledge they existed outside of work. It's curious, isn't it. Like, so you're saying that are the aspects of our nature that are not determined by - Yeah, again, the key insight is we don't know what in 20 or 30 years. So if we knew, okay, there'll we can prepare children for that particular line of work. But we just don't know. So, and maybe you take an example from the context of school. If you go to do an exam, you can learn from the exam is how to deal with failure. But if you go to hand in the exam, that's wonderful, okay, great, but if you failed, that's thing to learn. How do you pick yourself up? And how do you go forward from failure? This is going to help, if you fail an exam, and you that will be far, far more important for your future than getting a straight A. - Yeah, so developing a that is the main thing I is how to deal with failing exams. (audience laughter) Ah, that's the feeling, is But isn't it possible that, how this future will unfold, as workers will no longer be Isn't that one of the assumptions that we should be are not just, isn't there an assumption, and you would know this anthropological work, that a human being has to work because we resource our understanding from out of the times and surviving seems like work. But now that survival is and I'm talking from the perspective of a privileged person in a that possibly, we needn't define Why ought we? - Yes, we certainly might find ourself in a situation when work is become, either the meaning of work changes, that things that today even though they are extremely will be recognized as work, whether it's raising children, or whether it's building a community. These will be recognized and deserving monetary compensation. We could face a situation enough work for everybody, and the big struggle of a lot of people is not against exploitation, In the 20th century, the big struggle was against exploitation. That you have the small And in the future, maybe the main struggle is the elite doesn't need you. There is nothing that you to the economical or political system. They don't need you, and this is a much, much harder struggle. Also, again, psychologically, are not needed, that you're irrelevant, that kind of the world has passed you by, that's much, much more difficult than feeling that you're exploited, but when you're exploited, they need you. You're doing something important. You have potential power. - Isn't it, then, that to challenge, where there are elites upon whose largesse we whether it is for And, in a sense, this is I'm sure everybody here knows people that are socially irrelevant in the sense that, possibly, homeless, or have mental health issues that mean they're no and therefore are regarded regardless of oncoming already, today, not in the future, there are already huge the world over that are because they can't contribute monetarily. So it's happening already. - Yeah, yeah, but it could And, again, one of the the amount of stress. It's, as an historian, it's curious to see that humans today are than a thousand years ago, If we could meet our and tell us what kind she would've thought that we with no worries at all. But actually, in many stressful lives than a thousand years ago. And the level of stress in the coming decades because, again, the pace of change is increasing, and you're constantly under this fear that I will be left behind, with the next big change, and as you grow older, change is becoming more and more stressful. - Yes, do you think, Yuval, the incredible technological advancement that the last couple has not been accompanied if you were to use that emotional, or mental advancement? And at the beginning of our conversation, you said, you know, balance, and the ability to endure. These previously would've belonged in the realm of the spiritual. So, isn't one of the that as human beings we have to evolve other aspects of our nature to keep up with the capacities of technology if we are to have any chance of surviving, and indeed, challenging the dynamics that mean that there an elite that determine who is expendable, who is irrelevant, who is exploitable. Do we need to bring some and ways that we can radically alter them? - Yeah, I mean, I think spirituality now is more important than ever before, because a lot of spiritual are becoming very, very You know, things that for thousands of years, with are becoming questions For example, you think what is humanity? So you can debate for thousands of years, but now, as abilities, especially we may get the opportunity the human body, the human And then the question arises, which kind of qualities and which kind of qualities or If you ask the army, or if they will tell you, oh, we want and intelligence and discipline, because we want more and efficient soldiers But things like compassion or spirituality or artistic sensitivity, eh, So if we leave it to the free market, or to the army, to decide what to do with the new technology, we may get, not upgraded humans, but actually downgraded humans. Something which is far less than we are. And this, questions like what suddenly becomes a practical Or to take an even simpler question. In order to put a you need to answer some very Like the textbook example is moving on the road, suddenly two kids who are chasing the ball, And the car has to choose and kill the two kids, hit a coming lorry, and who is asleep in the backseat. What should we do? Now, for thousands of years, philosophers have argued about it, but it had no real implications. Now, and they said, okay, we just leave it to the free will and the But with algorithms, you, How do I program the algorithm? What should it do? And with an algorithm, you it will do what you tell it to do. So, there are all kinds of answers. One option, if you just you know, the customer is always right, then Tesla will produce the Tesla Egoist and the Tesla Altruist, and you know, the customer is always right. If people bought the Tesla to save its owner, well, what do you want? The customer is always right. You might have the But whichever way you to this philosophical question. You know, philosophers are They can argue for thousands of years about some ethical dilemma But engineers, and even the investors, the owners of the company, they are not patient. They want the self-driving or in two years, so they need - Yes, and we already of commerce and capitalism. That probably the car would then reverse up onto the pavement, run over a few more people, eject the owner out of the sun roof. If the ethos is to maximize profit, what I'm saying is that we've already had like a situation where GM Motors had to calculate whether it was cheaper to recall cars with a faulty ignition, or to face the lawsuits when the cars caught fire because And I'll leave it to you to research what GM Motors did in that situation. So in a way, in a sense, if human ethics are always couched within or the desire for profit, the results will always - No, not always. - The free market in some very good things for humanity, but my point was not but more generally. - Yes, of course, that once in a while anyway. We can afford a few of them. - What I meant to emphasize, is that now, not just but the immediate relevance of that you know, if you're looking for, if you think, okay, I want a career, I want to make a good career move, what kind of jobs will Philosophy is actually a much safer bet than it ever was before, like Google, they suddenly confront these deep philosophical questions. They actually need philosophers - I understand, Yuval, but within how do I monetize my resources, when an alternative route might be, let's not monetize ourselves. Let's look at alternative systems that exist outside of which has already proven not to be necessarily beneficial I'm not saying, you has done lovely things. Look at these trousers. These are not the trousers of (audience laughter) So I think now is the from the young people of Lilian Baylis and perhaps surrounding schools. I don't know exactly the method by which you've been selected. If you have a question, If you're feeling a bit shy, You'll just say your name, and you'll say the question, and then Yuval will answer you. So, who has a question, put your hand up and one of these humans will come to you with a microphone. Put your hand up and don't be worried. There's a couple of people at the back. We know why people sit at the back, 'cause they're naughty. (audience laughter) So it's the back of the bus people there. Can you see 'em? Sat by that emerald. - Good afternoon, my name is Hani Parrot. My question to you is that in 2017, you argued that by 2050, of useless people, you deemed Now my question is, what much different is that from the current society where most of us here are places and stuff like that. What much different is it, basically, that we are deemed as useless? We are deemed as unemployable, and that's my question to you. - Well, first of all, it's not a prophecy. We don't know for sure. It's a danger that we And as you say, it's not it's already beginning to happen now, but it might get worse and worse. And of course, when we they are useless only from the viewpoint of the economic and political system. Nobody's useless from the viewpoint of their mother, or siblings, or friends. But the danger is, that yes, and will suffer, as I said before, not from exploitation, but that there is nothing that they can do which is valued by the But if we are aware of this danger, we can try and prevent it from happening. One thing that we need to be doing is think very hard about how to retrain and educate people throughout their lives. Because in a situation when the job market is very volatile and it so it's not enough to provide in their childhood, we of lifelong education, and is on the government. Just as governments built for the young in the in the 21st century, to build another education Whether they will do it But it should be on the political agenda. What worries me, and this and use very provocative terms like the useless people or useless class, is to draw people's attention because this should be on the political agenda today. Not in 2020, or it will be too late. We need to think about so the next time there is an election, and politicians come and so you ask these politicians, what are you going to do about, what are your thoughts about the coming automation revolution? What will you do to prevent the emergence of this huge useless class? And if the politicians don't understand what you are talking about, or if they have no meaningful just don't vote for that politician. - Ooo, that was quite good. That was quite good. So we can look to people and make sure that they and they don't seem to of existing capitalist interests or not have a vision at all. So that was good. Bloody good question, that, Well done. Who's that, there's a person just central, I mean you, sort of fair hair, whitish skin. (audience laughter) - Hello, my name is Danielle, and as a young adult in today's society, I feel like young people in regards to politics. So what do you think we in order to allow us to have more of a say in what we believe in? - Hmmmm, oh, good question. I'm not sure I know the answer. - I've got this one, as well, though. (audience laughter) - One answer is if you join an organization or It's very difficult to make Humans' main strength is in their ability to cooperate effectively. 50 people who cooperate in an organization are far, far more powerful each one of which is just Whatever you care about, of the job market, whether it's racism, whether it's climate change, whatever you care about, is join an organization or so that you can cooperate - That's pretty good, I I want to stick this in there, as well. Practice democracy when you're younger. If you find yourself as a participant in a group or a social think of how you can Think about things that, that are not being met, see if other people and, as Yuval suggested, in his first-class, and some book Sapiens, that through cooperation... I'm quoting his book at him, while he's sat there, the nerve. No, Yuval's excellent book, Sapiens, as his answer just illustrated you have incredible power. Furthermore, as evidenced by a few people cooperating can dominate and control huge numbers of people. All of us are in that huge to a lesser or greater degree. And ah, what about this Yes, go on, mate, with the - Thank you, my name's Lucy. I go to this rebellious new They take us all over the world, and that's why I'm in London. - Welcome. I don't have much faith in What suggestions do you have to be better self-guided learners? - Ooo, um...... (audience laughter) It's a good question. It's, the most important thing today is to be able to focus. Especially if you have no guidance from an established school the greatest danger you by enormous amounts of information and being completely distracted and unable to form a clear vision, a map of reality. In the past, the main problem Information was scarce. Censorship worked by blocking what little flow of information there was, and especially if you there was just nowhere to go. Now, it's just at the, like you live in a small town somewhere, there are no books, there no television, no Internet, so how do you get information? And schools were initially established as these conduits, rare resource of information. Now information is everywhere. We are flooded by it. Our problem's just the opposite. Censorship actually works with enormous amounts of information, whether true or not, it doesn't matter, just flood people with information to the degree that they can't They can't tell the difference, what is important, what is not important. They can't build their map of reality. And for schools, I would say one of their chief missions now is with more information, it's but to provide them with or the tools to construct such a map. If you are a self-learner, this kind of a structure, then this is your greatest challenge. How to find my way around this enormous ocean of information And I don't really have of how to do it. I would just focus your attention that this is your greatest task. - How did you do it? How did you, did you have examples that you followed? You come through academia, so but so, is that how you did it? You had mentors, people that you followed, when you were, I know you of this abundance of information, not to the degree of the people have to contend with. But you must have still that you did, the methods that you did, the viewpoint-- - My method was really to focus on the most important questions, and then allow the wherever they go. Like you take a big question like, for example, why have men dominated women in almost all large-scale societies for the last ten thousand years? And you want to understand why. And it's important to take a question which is not only big, but to my life, to make it interesting. Something that really Why is reality like this? And when you start reading the first thing you'll discover is that you have to cross all kinds of disciplinary borders. This is not a question or economics or philosophy You can't understand gender relations if you don't know something But if you think oh, you also won't understand much. You also need to take history into account and economics into account and so forth. So what gives you the I have this big question following it wherever it leads me. - Well, that was pretty good, wasn't it? And I pushed him for that You saw that I nudged him a little bit, and we got Yuval to say find the question that you care about and see where it takes you and don't be confined by discipline. But do be confined by discipline Now, there's a few nutters up the back. Why don't the Penguin people get ready, but there's a young man here at the front, hand up, fingerless glove, who deserves to be heard. What about that? - Hello, my name is Moise. I come from Kingsman School, and you were talking about engineers and how they would be the philosophical questions. And I was wondering, all the onus on engineers? Like how they would be the Isn't it putting too much stress, or are you saying that we because we are putting or dedicating or, in a sense, putting - Well, this is what is happening. At present, engineers, are making more and more of in the world, and it is that so much power is And even more dangerous, a very good background in and mathematics, but they in ethics and law and And again, maybe to give an example. When you apply for a job chances are that your application will be processed by an algorithm And this algorithm was or a couple of engineers. And one of the biggest if the engineers kind of into the algorithm? For example, there are true that for example we know for a job comes, it's against people on the basis of race. So kind of the algorithm And in a way, algorithms are than humans, because they they don't have feelings and emotions. A human being, you can it's wrong to be racist, and the human being will agree, yes, it's wrong to be racist, but then when the application comes, his or her subconscious And we have a lot of research indicating that this is happening. Now people say, with algorithms, we are in much safer hands, because the algorithms But what turns out, for example, is that algorithms, we have that they don't discriminate-- - Some of my best mates are algorithms. - They don't discriminate but for example, they that people who come they tend to be less reliable workers, and they start from these post codes, the people in these post codes, they usually come from a Now, the engineer who may not even have realized but they should have realized, for I think that in every we need today to include in ethics for coders. - So you think that engineering, is separate from creativity. Like those two do not exist side by side. And also you were talking about how algorithms could be biased. Isn't it like sort of saying that it's the engineer's fault that Is like you're blaming the engineers for what ultimately isn't in their hands in their first place what highers ups tell them to do, anyway? - It's a case-by-case situation, but I think that if the of the enormous political of their work, and if they of the ethics of what they are doing, then even if some big corporate boss tells them to do something, or they can do their job Now, of course, it's not Governments need to Customers need to be more But ultimately, I would say if there is one profession courses in ethics, in this profession, it's computer coding. It's much more important to take some courses in than it is for literary or artists or whatever. - That's excellent, thank you. Thank you for that series And the other thing I didn't know is that you did a little Doubled up on the questions, very crafty. Hey, Penguin, what about some I'm trying to work out the system. People maybe sat randomly, for all I know. We don't know if the people at the front got there through sheer moxie and cunning. We don't know, do we? What about some of them Say your name and then - I'm Charlie, and as our at the same time, like, at the same time our more proficient and what are we gonna do about the - Hmmmm. (laughs) So that's really going about the useless class, and again, I want to emphasize, it's not a prophecy. It's just a possibility. If we make the right decisions then we can prevent this from materializing. And this is the whole point of If the future is inevitable, of talking about it? We can't do anything. But the future is not inevitable. Every technological this was always the case in the past, and will also be in the future, that every technology can be If you look at the 20th century, so you look at inventions and trains and cars, you to build fascist regimes or liberal democracies. Electricity didn't tell And it's the same with AI. The development in artificial intelligence and machine learning and biotechnology could lead to a dystopian scenario in which a tiny elite of superhumans controls all the resources and power, and most people are economically useless and politically powerless. It could happen. But it's not inevitable. We can use the same technology to create a much, much better world For example, that yes, but many jobs are not worth saving. What we need to protect is If we can take care of human needs and humans will have more leisure time and more opportunity to develop themselves, to engage in art or community activities instead of working so We don't need to, I mean, about the dangers of AI and algorithms, but this is simply by all these promises that technology will make everything better. And we need to kind of balance it. But we should still remember that, yes, there are wonderful opportunities, To give one example, again, returning to the self-driving cars. Today, all over the world, every year about 1.25 million people are That's twice the number of people who die from crime and terrorism If, and most of the traffic accidents are caused by human error. Somebody drinking alcohol and driving. Somebody falling asleep or things like that. If we replace human drivers it is likely to save maybe So there are wonderful developments there. The key thing is not to but to think, what should we do now? What kind of policies the in order to prevent the and make sure that the technology And we have, again, the that we can make technology work for us. All right, the 1950s and doomsday prophecies that nuclear weapons will inevitably lead in which human civilization And in fact, what happened, ended peacefully, and from the news, but your lifetime, the last 20, 30 years, have in the whole of human history. There are still wars in I know this perfectly well because I live in the Middle East. So I have no illusions about it. But still we are living in More people today die from eating too much than from violence. Sugar is far more dangerous And this is a wonderful development. So there is a lot of hope. - There's a lot there to think about. What I took from what you were saying is that we all have an regarding ethics, not just engineers, but all of us need to have a And more and more, I think, that instead of looking and thinking how can we make we have to look at ourselves, and ask how can we make There, what about, I think we've got time for two more questions. So, there's some of the people there. There's a hand frantically waving. I would take that as enthusiasm. - My name is Kadiz. I have a few questions. - Oh, a few, he's doing all - Do you feel as you said the possibility of more people becoming redundant in terms of the amount of jobs do you feel that the willingness of elites and like governments to help these people through schemes such as welfare benefits, job seekers' allowance, do you And the follow-up question to that was why do you feel that Amazon, and Microsoft, why indirectly pay, that help out these people that are redundant via when they can easily afford by which they run, where and help out the redundant - Yeah, well, there is and a lot of things whether it's in social services, whether it's maybe most and education for adults. But as I think you're indicating, we need to think about it and not just on a national level. The impact of the rise will be different on different nations and different parts of the world. In some parts of the world, enormous new wealth will be created, and a lot of new jobs will be created. Whereas in other parts of the world, the economy might collapse completely. In high-tech hubs like Silicon Valley and like the eastern coast of China, we might see enormous but whereas other countries which at present rely mainly like people producing textiles and shoes and so forth, their economies So beyond the question of in order to prevent the the most vulnerable people in the UK, an even bigger and more important question is what do we do on the global level? Because the worst problems are, there will be problems in the UK, but the worst problems They will not be in Western Europe or in North America or They are likely to be in like Bangladesh, like Indonesia. They will be hit the most by And what we see is now with and isolationism is a that yes, maybe governments to protect their own citizens, but the poorer nations of the world will be completely left very carefully about a global safety net, a global solution to this problem, and not just stay limited to - That's an excellent answer, and that's a really good I like the way you dragged great technological the world governing and controlling us. You pulled them into it, too, and made Yuval talk for a while about the culpability and responsibility of our governments and at the nation-state and the globe. A lot of education, a lot of Lot of things for us to learn. We've gotta pull ourselves together, start looking at fraternities looking at new alliances, Who's this dude with the My man there. And this will be our last question. We gotta wrap it up so start collating the good information in your minds and allowing it to land. - Hi, I'm Raphael, so I - Everyone gets in with two questions. - Sorry about that. So the first is, are echo chambers, like politically speaking, human hacking that you speak of? And if so, how do we deconstruct that? And a second one, what or universal basic income sociopolitical redundancy? - Okay, so I'll start with UBI, because it really goes back UBI, universal basic income, the idea that the government who make all the profits from and then uses the money to support people who might be using their jobs and need either social welfare or retraining to fill new jobs. The big problem with is that most people who talk about it actually mean national basic income. What they have in mind is something like the U.s. government in California in order to help unemployed taxi drivers in New York and unemployed coal which is as good as it goes. But the big question the unemployed people in or in Indonesia? And I don't see the U.S. government, certainly not the present one, but also not a future one, to support foreigners in other countries. So if UBI means universal basic income, the entire planet, yes, it's a good idea. But if it means national basic income, it doesn't solve the worst About the issue of echo this is really part of this new That even though we to communicate across the world, partly because of the we find ourselves being locked inside these small echo chambers, the algorithm finds out what we like, and what we think, and news stories that cater to our own tastes because we don't like to One of the basic facts we need to realize about the human mind is that It doesn't like to work too hard. And an echo chamber is trying to create a kind of in which I'm not challenged. I don't need to think very hard. I don't need to defend with other opinions. And in the end, it's up to break out of the echo chamber. I mean, here it's partly the but ultimately it's our responsibility to make the effort to break and it's easier than ever before. If you lived a thousand years ago in some small medieval village, this was also an echo chamber. But if you wanted to get different views, different opinions, it when you lived in this without a library, without Now, it's much easier. The technology here helps us. But there is still a gap there You need to walk the last mile yourself. The Internet and Google and Facebook, they have done some very and they make it very easy, if we want, to be exposed to other But the last mile we still we still need to have this resolution, I want to break out of my echo chamber, and I think it's a very of each one of us. - Thank you, Yuval. Now, we have to wrap up this session now due to the restrictions and our understanding Although that could all change. So, let's remember, I'd before we conclude some that you have personal that your future isn't written yet, that you have a great that you can control, to a degree, the governments that rule you, the behavior of corporations that you have personal that the future isn't the future is constructed by you. Remember when Yuval said, the the point of having these conversations is the future can be and every algorithm or passed through human consciousness, and you are humans, and you and algorithms and you're Particularly those of you sat at the back, slouching, the Lilian Baylis. Professor, Yuval Noah Harari, thank you for your excellent talk. (audience applause) - Thank you. Thanks once again, professor. Cheers, you lot, fight the power. (audience applause)