Welcome to Saint Petersburg! It's a very special evening and there's a lot of Silent Hill fans here tonight. For a lot of people, your music, Yamaoka-san, was the beginning. Many people started doing their own music thanks to you. I'm one of those people and I would like to thank you for the inspiration! Okay. Akira, Mary, you look amazing! Thank you! Yoshi, Israel - the whole band's here. We have a few questions for you. Who was here last year? Oh you brought your friends, so welcome-welcome. I hope you sing along ... Have you ever imagined what your lives would be like if you were born in Russia? I'd need a lot bigger wardrobe of warm clothing, I think. More warm clothes. That's for sure. But I love vodka so I think I might fit in well ... and caviar... Did you have the time to see the city? Not really. I've always come here to work and apart from performing never had much time to do anything. No. Our second year in a row Cause we fly in on the day of the concert to do the concert and then go out the next day. So no. We see beautiful pictures in the airport and we're just "someday we'll see this beautiful city.&quot; So but at least we get to meet. It's worth looking at. Yeah. It looks beautiful! Yeah, take you time. We did get to take a train last year from Saint Petersburg to Moscow and it was ... gorgeous. So beautiful to see the countryside and... that was a very special thing. Your Russian fans often call you &quot;maestro&quot;. What do you think of that? Well, nobody have ever called me that in person. I don't think I'm in a posititon to be called that. I'm just an ordinary man. No way! It's not true. You know it's not true. I think here in Russia we have that mentality that Silent Hill easily connects to and relates to. And for us, your Russian fans, you are a maestro. And I always think of you in that way. That's wonderful. Mary, we know you're fond of nightsky photography... Yes! How did it start for you? And what's in it for you? My boyfriend and I went to Hawai and we walked out on the beach and there was the Milky Way and it was just And I always had a fascination with space and wanted to see the planet from zero gravity so, some day i'll do that but until then... I live in Los Angeles there's so much light polution we never see the stars. So I was just brought to tears. And since then I just go and take pictures so I can remember what they look like. Cause in LA I'll go outside and I have to remind myself they're still there. They're still there. I can only see like Orion but they're all still there so it's just a nice remembrance. In the countyside you often can see the Milky Way. Yeah It's very beautiful! Do you get to see the Aurora Borealis? Yeah, sometimes... Yeah, it's someday for me too. Yamaoka-san many people wanted us to ask you if we are going to see another collaboration with Hideo Kojima? We know that back in the day you did the sound programming for Kojima-san's <<Snatcher>>. The plans right now are undefined. Having heard this question I thought that Russian fans, they are really into this subject. They don't just like my music or Kojima-san's works, but they're truly interested in our projects. Because <<Snatcher>> is a very old, an old-school game you could say. And the fact that you know about it shows me you're deeply invested into this topic. So, having heard the question, I thought to myself that Russians are like maniacs in this regard. We are maniacs. Mary Can you recall something like funny or interesting that happened during maybe one of your jams or rehearsals? Nice technique! Here? Yeah! Yamaoka-san is a drummer! Left-handed, yeah. Oh, Akira always makes me laugh. We can be doing a really serious song and I'll just turn over and he smiles at me and I'll just start laughing there's just such a love for the music that it's ...I'll turn around and Israel's like searching for a cue you know just like... You know... But in terms of anything ... can you think of anything really? I think a lot of the fun happens when we remember something that didn't happen on stage but we remember on stage So we start just laughing with each other on stage. But it's like an inside joke. You know what I'm saying... A lot of the times he likes to improvise a lot in the concert. So sometimes we laugh because I hear something and I try to imitate it, she tries like to duplicate whatever he's coming up with at the moment. So we are always laughing cause we come up with new staff that we didn't rehears and didn't plan. We love that part of the show. Yeah. And it keeps the music fresh too for us ... So, Yamaoka-san cheers the spirits up? Yes! It's that laugh! It's all about the fun. Recently it's been Silent Hill 2 15 years anniversary. Oh yeah. So it's obviously soon going to be 15 years since you guys met. How did this team come to be? I think I auditioned, didn't I? With Mary it's been a long-standing collaboration. She's been the main vocalist for the project starting with Silent Hill 3. As an artist who's main tool is voice Mary possesses an incredible expressive power. Thank you. As for Israel he feels the balance and the rhythm really well. Not just drums, but the whole thing. We got introduced by a common friend. It was about 4 or 5 years ago. &quot;A common friend introduced us&quot; sounds like we're a couple.. We are not. That's...that is so true! We noticed some changes in the band... Imai-san is an good old friend of mine. It's the first time we perform onstage together, but we've been friends and collaborators for the longest time. Oh that's nice! But people on stage is not the whole team. There are also people backstage. We all get along really well. Even our characters are alike. Which creates this very natural and friendly atmosphere on stage. Yeah. And here we have a ... BALALAIKA! I love it! It's actually quite hard to play. Can anyone play it? Plug it in? Plug it on stage? This is hand-made. My friend did this for you. She loves cats. I really miss my cats... Yeah, I asked my friend to do this for you. This is so great! Thank you very much. Thank you, that's adorable. Okay. I'll try, I'll try... I used to play another folk Russian instrument, domra. It's like this. Thank you! Thank you very much. Speaks Russian: &quot;Bye-Bye!&quot; Right-right! Good for tremolo with a plectrum. Yeah, I'll try, I'll try it... One more, one more.