Welcome back to the Gentleman's discuss 14 problems that are well some potential solutions to them, and just how The Gentleman's Gazette theme song As the old saying goes, &quot;clothes make the man.&quot; But, is numerous benefits, a gentleman who is well-versed familiar with a number of unique pitfalls and problems from top to bottom of an outfit; things but that the layman probably won't. So, let's get collar gap. Collar gapping describes the way that can stand up and away from the collar of your the other. The particularly frustrating aspect of In other words, you can suffer collar gap on jackets quite trimly fitted. Some believe that the cause wide for your own neck. And while this can happen, more to one side than the other suggests that shoulder sit naturally lower than the other. As an and has to grapple with collar gap from time to this tuxedo jacket as worn by Jay Gatsby played Or would that be &quot;Di-GAP-rio&quot; in this circumstance? [Cricket noises] Some men may find that it happens on they try on, which can be particularly frustrating. full bespoke may be the only option to alleviate collar by having your tailor lower the top button on a bit more, thus pulling the collar closer to find a jacket brand which gives you no collar gap our contributors, Dr. Christopher Lee, has found that or The Armoury give him no collar gap, whereas do give him gap. And as you'll be aware if you've had numerous problems with collar gap when trying today is shoulder divots on jackets. This one is general public and, similarly to collar gap, it's your arms at your sides in their natural resting above your biceps in the jacket's sleeves. These one, and they seem to be more common or at least fabric. One source of the issue, of course, would be too wide for your own build as is the case with Although, there can be other root causes doesn't harmonize with the way that your shoulders might be too small. Tailors can attempt to fix but if you see shoulder dimples immediately on you may want to think twice and not rely too much flyaway collars, which is when the points of your is against the body of your shirt and underneath outerwear. This will occur if your shirt's collar extreme of length and stiffness can cause the problem, but making sure that your collar shape and And, of course, depending on your own personal problematic as a unique style statement. In either types of shirt collars, you can consult our video is having a shirt with a second button that's in to the one under the collar button, the one you not wearing a tie and have your top collar button if your second button is too high, you're still buttoned up and boring. On the other hand, if it's Tony Manero in &quot;Saturday Night Fever&quot;, maybe even course would be unbuttoning this second button just how your shirt collar is going to sit if you a shirt brand that places its second button at And a third option is going custom, in which case you The fifth problem today is having a pocket square Many men uninitiated to classic style don't even could be sitting incorrectly in your pocket may do have the potential to sink down into a pocket like a balloon. This depends principally on both If it's too small for the average jacket pocket, particularly heavy material, it has the potential which are a combination of airy and slippery, these Some specific folding techniques may sometimes help, but squares, as well as the sizes of the jacket pockets try something like a pocket square holder, but a waste of your money as we discuss in this video the Fort Belvedere shop are designed at different material so that they always fit attractively in Fort Belvedere shop here. Our sixth problem today is of your shirt cuff should be visible below the and heatedly discussed on online menswear forums and one half of an inch. This is fine and dandy in jackets and shirts with various different sleeve play differently with one another. And if you get length of shirt cuff, this may work perfectly If you'd really like to be as particular as track of which of your jackets go best with some or buying shirts with different sleeve lengths vary some degree based upon brand, and mentioning having notoriously short sleeves as I found out discrepancies in the length of their arms alluded to before. So, whatever the case may be, custom if you truly want to show that same amount questions of length, our number seven problem today The question of how long your necktie should be, to just touch your waistband, is something that Frankly, though, even when you consider yourself something a bit of a problem. For one thing, depending on your long or too short. If you tie your tie properly edge of your waistband, you may find that the back too short if you're tall. And, of course, if you wear shorter to harmonize properly and thus, you'll find too long on average. One solution would be more or less of the ties fabric. Another technique into the waistband of your trousers, which Although, of course, it will be invisible if you can complicate things further here. The first of vary from 57 to 60 inches or so and those three fits you. The second factor is that bespoke ties And even when and where they are available, they often you're not going to find many woven or knit offer many of our ties in varying lengths so that else fails, you might as well just leave your tie Our number eight problem today is pleats that stay many men are probably going to scorn pleated pants if you try a pair that fits your build well, you'll them into your wardrobe. The problem encountered when the pleats sit unattractively staying open often if the pleats are small or if they're sewn too tight for your waistline. The result is that to look as attractive as it otherwise might. ballooned outward. The solution here is simply to to make sure that the pleats interact well are going to stay closed and look attractive are suffering from ballooning pleats though, you it's &quot;Hammer time!&quot; Number nine on our list today is on the concept of &quot;everyday carry&quot; or EDC elsewhere is no matter how much or how little you carry, upset the clean unbroken lines of the fabric. And, bad idea to use the outer pockets on a suit jacket because over time, if you overstuff them, they may here then is to keep your everyday carry fairly wherever possible. It is a bit ironic given that pockets overall, but the gentleman concerned with how he looks. Our 10th problem today is keeping into the arena of wearing off-white or pure white clean. This is more of a problem for pants than for ground, and you also do sit on them. Stylish gents sweating over sitting down on park benches eating pasta with sauce or curries. Frankly, wearing of care and attention to keep them clean which, or can simply be an opportunity to slow down And, fortunately, effective stain removal methods And you can find them as well as a variety of Our number 11 problem today also relates at the right length. Whether you like to wear your cuffs is a matter of personal preference. Overall, trousers should either just touch the tops of your the day, however, your trousers can slide down a bit wearing a belt or side adjusters. So, you may end This can be difficult to avoid even when because when doing this, you'll often not to where they may sink down to later on in the pull your pants up a few times throughout the day, Because suspenders or braces hold your pants your shoulders, you won't be fighting gravity and clean and unbroken leg line. In the number 12 spot The typical advice on dress socks for men is style to prevent them from drooping down. The come halfway up the calf can sag or bag and they which is decidedly not a stylish look. There can however, as in summer, they may have the potential flannel trousers, the trousers could cling to the line. Sometimes, it may seem necessary or preferable then opened up to the issue of having them droop by men wearing sock garters, but these are seen and frankly, they're mostly unnecessary as most simply giving your socks a quick check and pulling may be wearing shirt stays, which connect your idea. For more information on shirt stays as that subject here. Our penultimate problem today, Like most articles of clothing, dress shoes look put them to use, though, they'll inevitably develop be disguised by polishing to some degree except shoe directly behind the toe area. This is the will bend and flex the most when you walk. So, over and polishing the area may actually make things crease as you continue to walk in the shoe. So, what as shoes made from thinner, cheaper materials are Next, use shoe trees after wearing your shoes and creasing by holding the shoe in its original with the creases. Out of all of your clothing, shoes over time, having a bit of creasing is only natural. of a good pair of shoes over their lifetime. And in relates to shoes, asymmetrical shoelaces. This may gentlemen's problems, but once you're made aware of shoelaces, it's likely that you loop the left lace of this is that the finished knot is going to be it won't lie straight across or perpendicular it's probably true that you will. Fortunately, we've problem by tying your shoes the right way, which is The video also covers a few alternative lacing shoe laces will be best for your shoes. mastering this technique will likely mean that for longer periods of time. To wrap up today, the problems on today's list represent the most Problems that most men not only aren't going ridiculous even if they were to think about them. perfection. Not only to dress your best but, indeed, perfection can be tempting, especially when looking But, indeed, these photographs are done under the to present products that are fresh out of the box and, indeed, they may have filters or other photo especially because most of the people around remember to have fun when you're assembling your but in the end, don't sweat the small stuff. accessories that serve to illustrate some of the Most readily apparent, of course, would be my dark brown tan and light blue, which, as I said, dates to frankly a bit big for my build, resulting in some just a bit short and I haven't had them let out perfectly with my shirt sleeves. However, given that striped pattern of light blue and white can be oriented slightly shorter today to compensate for I've got inserted our gold-plated sterling silver tiger's eye as the stone, which has some brown other garments. Also from Fort Belvedere today are royal blue, my pocket square, which is in a color silk blend featuring printed geometric medallions and my boutonniere, which is a relatively mini delphinium. My vintage wool challis tie, a repeated geometric motif in green and pink. ground the outfit. And my shoes from Undandy are in cap toe and into them, I've got inserted some which serve to make the shoes pop a bit more and trousers from sagging over the course of the are in a blue color, which could harmonize with the the jacket. Additionally, my tie is tucked into sit relatively high on my waist and the tie would all of the Fort Belvedere accessories I'm wearing The Gentleman's Gazette theme song