So welcome to the teeny tiny Arcade. There are lots of like this, so mine is about There's a walkway right in this used to be a shop front, all of the shops in the While malls across the U.S. are facing store closures and finding a new life from an We are here at the Arcade Island, the oldest indoor The Arcade had long been a bustling downtown, but like times and was completely But rather than letting this ruin, developers came in and lofts here on the second floor. While top tier malls Nearly 34,000,000 square feet mall space is vacant and off Almost 70% of Americans live has a high vacancy rate, low abandoned altogether. At the same time, the country deficit of 4.5 million homes. There's a housing problem in a U.S., right? This is an have a built in customer base Monday through Friday, this is definitely, you know, people getting lunch or whatever. My barber is downstairs. As of January 2022, at least malls planned to add a The U.S. has about 1,100 malls, about 8.5% lower than So, can new housing classic American mall? And what's it like to live CNBC went to Providence, Amy Henion has been living on mall in Providence, Rhode half years. What's it like to live at the It's really great. It's cool to be part of such knowing that every single one shop of some kind. But living in a converted challenges. Here is my very tiny kitchen. It is very small, but it is And one of the interesting building is that because of cooking devices with an open have stoves or ranges. Do you ever have any concerns Not really. It's something you building, having people Everybody has blinds in their or lower as they like. Despite those challenges, shops and restaurants makes experience. I get my hair cut in the salon lunch spots, so you don't building. There's a bookstore author talks in the private Avoiding New England's of course, another perk. If it's like pouring rain just really can't be bothered You can still go downstairs amenities. And it's not just long term the mall. Scott Sheehan is a out his apartment on Airbnb. Some of these business owners floor, how important is it to built-in customer base with and third floor? I know a lot of folks are very restaurants, clothing stores So, you know, the business are interested in maintaining residents. You definitely feel like more so than if you were just building. It has been to unlock my door thinking apartment. So, sometimes you more than you would in a But for me, that's a small When a mall dies, communities destination. Malls often generating billions in tax of jobs. In 2020, U.S. malls and shopping centers tax revenue. When malls domino effect. Local businesses suffer, jobs become eyesores. To combat this, developers into mixed use spaces, and housing. Of these conversions, nearly residences and office space. Once upon a time, retailers the anchors of America's But department stores are Macy's plans to close 150 of JCPenney, which has already since declaring bankruptcy, this year and next, despite a investment plan. When you have dead retail clear that, most of what a so you don't have to demo And the buildings themselves and then adapt into a retail The Arcade is a little bit other mall based residential Most of them, like the one at Broomfield, Colorado, are connected by green spaces or This was a vacant parking lot, the mall, and we, you know, project here. All of the benefits that the to the equation. You have a highly amenitized much more desirable than you know, in an isolated Not only does it meet housing the property by bringing in a boost on site restaurants, While housing and malls without its challenges. Zoning laws can be a major Malls are typically zoned for multifamily residential. Developers often need jurisdictions to move Like any other developer, you like interest rates, capital markets, and so on. Another obstacle is design. Most malls have limited for residential spaces light, making it difficult to mall. Usually, only the are suitable for housing. Converting commercial office another trend, but it's often A study found that in five metro areas hit hardest by office acquisition price the conversion to be Conversion projects are really depends upon existing always know about, but to low end, you'd be looking at convert. Where on the upper at like $800 or more per Despite those headwinds, malls a second chance if they can of the future. The mall is becoming cool live by it and work by it, by it. We're definitely Some people are confused and you want to live in a space But for me, it's about having reasonable price that will community and interacting The point is not to stay in It's to interact with the in.