Today, I'm going to show you four methods is useful for seniors who are weak, and they therefore they avoid activities like they avoid they avoid going to places, because they say "If also good for them because if they practice one of today, I'm demonstrating four different methods without any furniture,e and these methods are I call these four methods: the first one: The one second method is called The Two Points because I call The Plank Method because we use a plank, so fourth method is The Front Method because we use Share this video with any senior that you know don't know how to get up. Tell them to practice get up and you leave alone, you don't know, you yourself. The first time that you do this, make a friend, or in front of your physiotherapist, or they are there to help you. But once you become practice this every day at home. Please remember advice. This is just for educational purposes, to do in the case of emergency. But if there's the nearest emergency department. If you want to all this four methods, and follow them at home and download the handout. It's free. The website let's start with the first method. I call the going to need one knee and one thigh. So let's pretend that you fell and now you need to get up. is stronger, and you don't have pain, and that the first step of this method number one is to go to do, you need to go on the dog position, that both of your knees, now choose the strongest knee, and put this in front of you, straight your trunk and use this to get up, there you are! That's the At the end of this video, I'm going to show you quadriceps and your glutes muscles, because if of those methods. So now the second method. I going to use the two thighs the two knees. Okay fall again! If you are on the floor, you fell, and the two knees, you roll on your stomach, that's you go on the dog position, the easiest way to bring your knee here, and then go on one side, from the dog position using both of your knees? you can see where I'm putting my hands, so you of your hands here, in the middle, you're using, okay? The first thing is you put the right foot and hand on the knee, the other hand on the other method. Now, for the third method, we are not so, let's fall again! I call the third method the ground. Roll on your stomach. For the third you need strong shoulders and you need strong your ankle, your foot, because it's going to hurt. the first thing is you go on a plank, which means your spine from the floor, and now you start towards your hands, and your hands go closer you see? For the third method, we did not put because you do need strong glutes you need strong a little bit of quadricep,s but you don't put pain in your knees, so this is the third method. so let's start, we start by Falling! Pretend that You go on your back, and you need to have strong is if you bend your knees first, and then sit and if you have weak abdominals you can get them and your abdominals will get stronger. Okay, you sit. Sit like this on the floor, then you you're going to push yourself on one shoulder like hand on this knee, the other foot, and then you your quadriceps? Your glutes muscles at home every to get up from the floor? So, one exercise I for the quadriceps is the squats. So, you can sit kind of a easy squat you are kind of squatting so then this muscles they contract slowly, do you can increase to 20 repetitions. If you do this making it harder. How do you make this harder? The touch the chair and get up, do this eight easy, then you don't need the chair anymore you 20 repetitions, and if this becomes easy, you on the wall. You go with your spine, touching the there, just hold here, and you going to fatigue So now how do you strengthen the glutes muscles or a countertop, and you just, with your knee you're contracting the glutes muscles, here, want to make it harder putting more resistance and I have this ones, and I'll put the description attach them you, you have there are many types of and then what it's going to do is you're going to because you have to raise more weights, so your leg, you're doing this exercise extension and then you're making this exercise harder, also you're putting more resistance to the muscles, the harder the exercise more resistance the ways that you can get muscles stronger, you apply until the muscles get fatigued. If you walk put them in the morning and you remove them in the going up and downstairs, you are strengthening the so at the end of the day you just remove them, around the house. So, I highly recommend people to and I have the links of this weights in the to purchase them, and there's a link there. at home every day to get stronger, choose one that you like, you prefe,r and then practice because God forbid, if one day you fall you know