Claudia Romeo: Hello! Today of England, in Worcestershire, We're going to see how they make their famous Worcestershire sauce. Today we're going to find out about its history and origin, what makes it so popular here in the UK, and then, of course, Worcestershire sauce is a long-established maturing process with malt and spirit vinegar, garlic, anchovies, tamarind, The sauce can be enjoyed Use to complement steaks, burgers, cocktails such as a Bloody Mary, and a British favorite, cheese on toast. But how did this famous here in the West Midlands? Nigel Dickie: So, Lea &amp; Perrins is steeped in over 180 years of history. You know, the story starts in 1835 with Lord Sandys, who was reputably a nobleman of this county. And he'd been traveling in the Far East and had picked up this recipe for a sauce. And he loved it so much he brought it back to Worcester and wanted it made up. He turned to a couple of Mr. Lea and Mr. Perrins, who owned a chemist shop in the center of So, he gave them the recipe, and Mr. Lea and Mr. from around the world And you know what? It tasted awful. Lord Sandys never returned, and Mr. Lea and Mr. in the basement of their chemist shop and didn't return to it until When they tried it and it had matured into this wonderful elixir, and so started the, kind of, global fame of Lea &amp; Perrins into what it is today. Claudia: After discovering the pair began selling it from their Broad Street chemist, which was quickly becoming popular with locals in the area. Lea &amp; Perrins then relocated to a new factory in Worcester in 1897, where the sauce is still made today. Depending on your region, it will either be packaged in the iconic orange label or wrapped in a beige paper wrapper. Paul Nicholls: So, at the mainly Lea &amp; Perrins 70% to 80% of what we do is Lea &amp; Perrins, so quite a lot of volume, around about 43 million bottles a year. So depending on the bottle at the time, we can run anything from 2 1/2 tonnes an hour up in terms of production of sauce. Claudia: Paul escorted showing us the making process. We started in the basement, where hundreds of barrels sit quietly, maturing the Worcestershire just like it did over 100 years ago. Paul starts by showing us one of the three main ingredients that go whole red onions. Paul: So, we got some red pickling for around about 9 to 10 months, and we've still got the which we've noticed, but it's changed from being a very hard fruit, even though it's keeping its color, to being a little bit mushy, and it's the process of that creates this lovely that will give us that lovely flavor. Claudia: The same whole garlic cloves, which also sit in a barrel of malt vinegar to pickle for 18 months. One of the most interesting in these barrels are anchovies, and there are lots of them. The fish, which are captured age in 200 kilograms of salt for 2 years, which help bring out the After the ingredients they then go to the making house, where they are mixed together. The garlic, onions, into this 5,000-liter tank. It then goes to the where the ingredients in a larger, 30,000-liter tank for a minimum of six weeks, adding more ingredients, further enhancing the maturing process. Once complete, the sauce then goes to the final stage, where The sauce first goes before heading to the heat exchanger, which preheats the sauce then cools it again, before It's finally time to try One thing to keep in mind is that this sauce is basically I'm not a big of vinegar, and all these strong, strong flavors. I think the winning point in here is that you don't taste the that there is fish in here. I can taste the vinegar and the garlic and the onions. You know, like, if you the standard vinegar that this will taste more because it has some sweet notes. I have made a very so what we've done here the Lea &amp; Perrins sauce before putting this onto the grill. Oh, yeah, there is sauce in here. I think this one is a very good option. The sauce actually elevates it. So, overall, not for me, but it's still a great sauce.