In this video we'll cover the basics of how of the most important items to look for, that We'll show you how to save time and for the items most needed First you need to know that most construction divided up by divisions, just like chapters Specifications Institute. Each division covers a The specifications are broken down into 50 and are reserved for later expansion. But and this is Procurement and Contracting and Division 01 General Requirements. but you'll see the different trades down here. if you do Masonry work Division 04, and we get it's always Division 22. Division 23 is known as HVAC, always Division 23, and Division you may do Site Work. That would be over Process work, Division 40 to 48 which you got or Water and Wastewater equipment depending company or your Electrical company does. You'll your MEP is division 22, 23 and 26. So as you can two digits in the specs. Will always start with 22 if you do HVAC, it will always start with 26. up into 3 levels of 6-digits. Each level the first set of digits is the Division. Now we'll is Plumbing Level 1 will indicate that the next but we know there's more to sanitary sewage you get Level 3 that defines the third set of Sanitary Waste and Vent. They all fall under but as you see that third level defines it 22 Plumbing, Level 2 Sanitary Sewage, but Level 3 all falls under sanitary waste. Now the same for 23 is always HVAC, but level 2 this is talking set of numbers is 64, and that's where you'll there's more than one type of Package Water the type of Package Water Chiller. In this case and Rotary Screw. So Level 1 is your division and Level 3 is more definitive of these Package Division 26 Electrical Level 1 is your division, that's the second level, that's category 51, but than just that, it has to be broken down in Level Fluorescent, LED, HID interior lighting so in this case 26 is Electrical level and level 3 defines it even further because Now those are the main levels, and that is to break down those levels even and then another set of numbers in this has more than one item under it, Sanitary and Grease Removal Devices. So it's another Same with Chillers. Centrifugal Water Well, there's Air-cooled and Water-cooled break down the category further. So after you you'll have 3 Parts. Part 1, Part 2 and Part division and in every category. It's and what that does is gives a description of that section, of the scope it references, another spec section within your division, or Quality Assurance, Submittal requirements, falls under Part 1, and this gets repeated Now Product is going to describe the Product the material requirements, this is where the meat and then Execution is just about what it says, your installation requirements. and Training of owners staff. which is just an overall description, and and then you got Part 2 which really describes it's got to, how it's got to perform. If it's made there, and then Execution is about putting up. How you test it, and then training the owner. Now here's an example. tThis is Part 1 General, General description, it describes the ductwork. exhaust ducts, and then definitions and the same there you go. You got related work. that are applicable to you, and here's there's the material type, galvanized steel. right, and here's Execution. So it's telling accessories in accordance with reference SMACNA and Air Conditioning National Association, for installing and fabricating ductwork. One last thing we want to cover is some of the the specifications, and you should have a form in Estimating Spreadsheet where you can list So this here is for Division 00, which is the Procurement and Contracting Requirements. So these pre-bid meeting or job walk date and time? Is a bid bond required? So you want to make delivered before the bid date. Performance cover the cost if that's required. Liquidated for a schedule that is not completed on time. one we just mentioned, their start and finish you got the labor force to man up up alternates, shop drawing requirements, and then out the bid forms complete. Some jobs will reject forms as requested ,and then RFI request for which you can submit a question to get answers and you'll have individual sheets. I'll show you the MEP Academy Estimating Spreadsheet, and this costly items that you want to look for in you have remote damper operators. Is duct leakage section here, whatever that section would be. and then I would put the page number that you so you do that throughout these. Duct Smoke course that's going to be expensive. Duct lining; or duct cleaning? Here's the liquidated damages are allowed or prohibited. So you should have and have the description of the most common costly to be looking for, and have