A year and a half ago, here, there was only a desert. In October 1998, A sapphire. three hundred thousand people pile up in camps scattered over more The largest deposit in the world, each of these holes Rasta arrived from Antananarivo Here, no formalities, A simple registration is enough. Rasta and his buddies on one of the edges of their galleries. They must first get out of this land, If they want to widen their guts, In the region, wood is very expensive. We think sapphire means All those who came here to seek We know that this work If you want to get rich, Here, there is no easy money. To win, 500 meters from their mines, This is where Rasta come to sift the earth Maybe in this sand, Maybe a beautiful sapphire, It's been four months since Everyone attends the operation. Not that he doesn't trust, Leave two band members alone it might be in case of discovery, We found only small stones, In all, we won approximately what will allow us to live We try to save but it's hard Ilakaka, at the edge of the national seven, A year and a half ago, There were seven houses of earth, Today, Every day, new arrivals They come from all over the country, luck will smile. Twice a week a dozen armed men are waiting. Twice a week, They are there to welcome the biggest Hello. How are you ? Hello everyone. Werner Stalder Einstein is Swiss. He was attacked once in Tanzania. He had been robbed of 500,000 francs. -Hello. How are you ? You always have It is a dangerous region. There are attacks every week Sri Lankans, stone buyers. Who attacks them? I do not know. Werner brings cash. a fortune here. The seven kilometers separating the airport At the entrance of the city, This is where buyers settle, and prospectors are trying They all heard Werner's plane. Even small parts interest him. In these bags In Malagasy francs, 800 million, Prospectors all know that Swiss It would be better Those who climbed the walls Those who lined up Werner likes order. Before, there were too many people There were always fights outside. My stones got lost. Now it's one by one. I try to do it as soon as possible Werner's technique, Buy almost everything offered. Basically sometimes in the lot, Sapphires are found but the blues Color, size, inclusions and shapes When he is offered These are worth a lot. Werner sets his price in seconds. They went to meet If we don't agree, We don't agree. - Why ? Mr Werner proposes four, Joseph is a farmer. With Gervais, his son, they gave up What decided them their neighbors got rich here I don't know the names I want to sell them - A million ? Since I'm completely deprived. He didn't want to buy. - He didn't say the price? He didn't even offer a price. As Joseph says, It's been three months since they arrived. When they arrived, Joseph and Gervais Everything had passed in the journey, but they had provisions, Joseph thought it was enough and maybe also a bit of luck. A little luck so that misery I came here hoping to win Billions or millions I have been here for three months. Until now, We will work We have no more Corn, 10 kilograms of rice. In the corner where Gervais digs, Here, no one has found good sapphires. Joseph and his son They are on their fifth hole, It's Gervais who goes to the bottom. His father brings the rubble to the surface. If the hose collapses, Gervais will not be able to count No other help. So far, There has never been a miracle. Rockslides would kill on average I've been digging for over three months. I still haven't found anything. I'm hoping to find a big sapphire. My father and I left If we are lucky we will become everything In this work, For example, do not dig otherwise it may collapse. You don't have to dig the ceiling We must make the ceilings of galleries It's less dangerous. Ferdinand is ten years old, he was born here. He was the guide for tourists a hustler. Ferdinand quickly understood. He also noticed that prospectors that they were afraid Buyers who come here Since then, Ferdinand has become a broker, What are you looking in there? There are a few bubbles. - There is a little what? - There, we see. You saw ? Like that, - How much does he want? - How much does he want? How much do you offer him? I offer 250,000, but he won't. The first time, and it was she who taught me It was she who brought me here. It is a chance In town I was a guide Here I can buy a sapphire 40,000 It's lucky for me. Ferdinand has a few touts He gives them 10 percent. This one came looking for him, because he spotted a woman The woman in the red hat. Ferdinand quickly learned, However, he immediately notices A few days ago, Ferdinand found himself The man left with all his money. - Is it a good stone? He will try his luck The Thais are the buyers here but they are very demanding What you have costs nothing. You're not going to sell it to Werner? - I am going to sell. Sorry ? - What did the Thai tell you? Watch me deal with Werner. Seven hundred and fifty thousand. - Two hundred thousand. Two hundred thousand, what he bought Two hundred thousand Malagasy francs, the monthly salary I learned everything on the street. I learned French, sapphires, Ferdinand has a girlfriend. Their relations are sometimes imprinted A few days ago Olga asked him Olga also earns money, What is this little girl She hangs out with boys. Who ? The girl ? With which boys? Yes. Thai people, - How old are you ? Olga is lying, she is only 12 years old. The storm still worries Werner. Clouds bring darkness He is obsessed with security. It's finish ? Yes, we stop because of the weather. How was the day? We have nothing interesting, The ticket bag is far from empty, That's all for today. Werner knows pretty much what he bought, Always his obsession with security. It is in Antananarivo, The trip to Ilakaka is worth the risk. Here, we buy the stones the other major producer. You did good business There is not much Why ? Rumor has it that the people here those who came from elsewhere, For about two or three weeks, I only spent It is possible to see the stones No, I don't like it that much. Ferdinand's house. He lives there with his mother, It's him and his big brother The big brother is a prospector. - That's my mom. My dad is already dead. He is my brother's son. Is your mom raising him? Yes. He lives here. What do you do with the money from the stones? I sell stones, Have you already won a lot? Not a lot. I gave two million to my mother, This is the bike I bought. He has some problems. I will buy another. - How much did you pay for it? Gaspard is one of the first He was a student in the big city The Sapphire rumor got there fast. He did not hesitate to come here Gaspard knew how to seize his chance. Today he is a boss, In his car In one year, Gaspard saw the arrival all around his house, The others who live next door Sometimes the others Because they think that in this land, Gaspard understood and the good vein to get out of it. His mine has a nickname, He employs ten workers who dug Stones, he found many. On average for 20 million The more he digs, Every morning they empty the water from the hole Gaspard has the means. Many who came early He never dug because as soon as he arrived, The first time, I bought it at seven 7500 francs. I sold it to the Thai for 5 million. That's where I started Six hundred and sixty-six times the bet. cases like these, That's what we call When we have such a blockage it is an indication Since they are in the blockage, Coming here, I studied stone, That's very good. Its ten workers, plus are all former prospectors Gaspard has a sense of business. The first to join I share the profits with fifty percent for them I pay 10,000 francs Gaspard goes every day There, too, there is business to be done. He does not sell to Werner the Swiss, There are many of them, almost 300. The greatest sapphire specialists. also the most attacked The man claims to own ten guns A year and a half ago, Thanks to Sapphire, his hometown, and five taxis. He knows that precious stones In any case, I need a double job in life. I'm thinking of going to normal school in Antananarivo, If for example I am I will always do the business. Indeed, a part This is where Werner lives, This is where they feel safe. Every year, - Only ? How much does this little piece cost? I buy it at 200,000, The jeweler will resell According to Werner, small margins. Experts believe he trades sapphires An estimate, because in Madagascar, one of the most beautiful in the world. In the mines, of Ilakaka, enough would be left