Is there any better feeling than it in the recycling bin, and finally But what happens when you're stuck with the spool, pestering you, taking up shelf Well, not to worry, because in this absolute best, most useful last meter filament scraps so you can buy even Let's get after it. Before we dive into the individual that will help you use up every single you end up printing from this list. You see, if you slice normally, you and then having the entire plate have enough filament to finish it. That's why, when you want to use up scraps, I suggest that you check out feature in PrusaSlicer or OrcaSlicer. As the name suggests, this will tell time, and will also make it so that clearance to prevent collisions. Then you can put as many of the item on think you're going to be able to print, you've exhausted the last bit of filament. So rather than having an entire now have just one incomplete print. Pretty neat. Now let's look at some models. Everyone loves Lego, and when I asked all one of you guys pointed these out, and First, Lego already comes in all cares if you print them in all Second, you can pick the right remaining bit of filament. By the way, before you guys leave a I didn't share the models that I talked a collection on Printables, which will And I don't know, maybe you hit on your way down there. Up next, let's talk about one the honeycomb storage wall. I honestly feel like I do talk about am going to be trying out multiboard But because there are so many different ecosystem, and because it's one of to have a few extra pieces lying for using up filament scraps. Now I know what you're thinking, on your wall and not want to add But even so, there are some things like hidden behind the item you're holding print them out in just about any color. Speaking of storage solutions that it's out some extra gridfinity bins just to without having to wait for them to print. If the default bins use up more the roll, do check out the gridfinity little as a meter of filament. Here again, these are a great choice on how much filament you want to use up colors of gridfinity bins there. Then, you just toss them into a bin, not a next time you get a new type of hardware. Actually, here's one that you then use them to fill up the There are these nice little sizes M3 all the way to M8 bolts. Do I often need a thumbscrew for a bolt? No, I, I can't say that I do, but is of filament just sitting on a roll? Yes. Yes it is. Here's another one that's good It's a card-sized fork Now, obviously, being 3D printed, this prints are definitely not food safe. But let's take a moment and see out in just basic PLA, shall we? Actually works. Another one of those good-to-keep and you never know when you're Well, for the less demanding types strength, you can actually print them you just store them for whenever you Okay, hang on, because I do need video's sponsor, which is PCBWay. Chances are, if you're watching are soon to have a 3D printer. But what if you need to 3D Or you need to have something Or what if you need a custom PCB to Well, whatever the requirement PCBWay has you covered. With an easy to use online calculator, uploading your CAD files, choosing and affordable and competitive quote. Best of all, PCBWay has a real order to ensure that there are no I personally use PCBWay for a lot of my Check the link in the description And now, let's get back to the video. Now here's one you might not need come in handy and probably should be It's a replacement zipper pull. Now this one does require glue and I if what you're trying to use up is By the way, while that PETG is printing out these collar stays. Personally, I almost None of you ever invite me anywhere at any kind of real day job. But for those of you who do shirts often, these are great. They come in a ton of Just probably don't print them won't survive the washing machine Now, here's another one that I these days since I'm usually spotted But if you find yourself grocery shopping You'll definitely want to They are these little dummy coins stack, and best of all, this specific coin that you could possibly need They use really very very little sure which kind of coin your specific print out every single one of your From experience, I can say that well, specifically my mother-in-law. Now this one is a little bit meta. It is a clip made from filament Yes, you can always use the little holes they're just not in the right place And I've also been printing a lot me tell you, those do not like to be Now these come in actually a variety and see which one you like the most. Okay hold on, don't throw out that have one more that is best in PETG. And it is this simple shower Simply print, dunk, wiggle, pull, and gag. Speaking of gross stuff that you probably we have this reusable floss holder. Yes, you could just buy disposable out of PLA, but why cave in to Make your own at home and stick Speaking of consumables, let's try out or whatever you want to call them because but I've actually never really bothered. So why bother now? Well, honestly, 25 is a better number seriously, these are cool because you tie on a white cable or vice versa, and these can be printed Also, if you're serious about filament, these are probably the least print something functional out of. But, let's see how they work when Recently, I noticed that my valve as valve stem covers are won't to do. Which made me realize that not only can custom ones with my car manufacturer's Heck, I could 3D print Or better yet, I could print out on my neighbor's car to see just That ought to teach him to complain Only I get to complain about While I'm out in the garden making extra let's go ahead and have a look at these Here, again, these use almost really do work really quite well. I print them out with scraps of last for at least an entire season, Here's another one I love, that I like to give to people. 3D printed coupons for a free 3D print. These use up a very small amount two different filaments. And even if you don't have a multicolor filament at the appropriate layer. In fact, on that note, actually any kind top layer is really a great candidate You could print the hardware featured from Alexander Chappelle, or, you could find any Check out these really really cool signs The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Or, I often use the last meter of black name tags that I put on my wall of fame Hint hint. By now, I hope that you've used scraps, but what if you have just on the roll to burn through it with Here's one thing that you can 3D print to then also help you store the mid-sized It is a spool divider that This way, you can clear up storage small amounts of filament on one spool. Now I had previously printed a similar actually used up way too much filament. These much better ones are available added another one in my collection on Alright, we've almost reached the end reminder to print a 3D benchy with Personally, as you can probably see, of filament that I've ever owned, and the filament before printing a benchy. Don't live with regret. Print a benchy. So we've come to the end of our the end of your filament scraps. But I do want to give you one completely exhaust that roll. If you haven't already, go ahead and have a reference for that color in the I found this great model that actually filament swatch standard used by Bambu Lab that allow you to see the transmission Super useful and I love that it fits display stands that are out there Now in a future video I actually want to different kinds of lasers for adding So make sure you're subscribed for videos that I'm currently working on. But before I let you go, I'd below, did I miss anything? What was your favorite model and which Anything to farm engagement Anyways, that's all for this Formnext, but also on The Next Layer.