Welcome to Psychology Refresh! MBTI Personality Test! each one of the following 4 questions and is an introspective self-report questionnaire how people perceive the world and make decisions. behaviour variation that appears random is Take our Personality Test by choosing one option personality types you are and why you do things Number 1 - Introvert or Extrovert is focused on the OUTER (E) world of events, (I) world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and is turned inward. The majority of people have an OUTER or the INNER world, despite the fact that yet complementary. As a result, one of their (I)--takes the initiative in shaping their So, do you get your energy from yourself, with or from interaction with the If you have chosen Introvert (I) these statements thoughts, images, memories, and feelings that energy. Most of the time, I like to work alone to think so that when I decide to act, I will are almost solid objects. Sometimes I prefer the If you have chosen Extrovert (E) these statements actively in events and engaging in a variety of people, I get thrilled, and I enjoy energizing about change. In general, I feel comfortable and hear what other people have to say, I The Intuitive (N) side of our brain tries to make interprets it, and creates OVERALL patterns speculating about and predicting the future. It is of our brain takes in all the sensory elements and odors. It classifies, arranges, documents, It is grounded on REALITY and deals with information on memories and recollections of both types of perception, but we all have a So, does your info preferably more abstract understanding (iNtuition) or from If you have chosen Intuitive (N) these statements impressions, as well as the significance and getting my hands dirty, I would much rather I'm curious about new things and what might be, though I have no idea how I will employ symbols In comparison to the real facts or specifics more as an impression of how it felt. statements should apply to you. I focus touch, taste, and smell. What is actual, present, I take note of information and retain specifics things put to use practically, and I learn Experience convinces me Number 3 - Thinking or Feeling brain conducts a DETACHED, OBJECTIVE analysis of premises and draws conclusions. That's just how effects on others, and considerations of human our minds makes judgments that are ATTACHED and Even while everyone employs both methods to come predisposition toward one over the other, so when has the upper hand or acts as the tiebreaker. given decision criteria (Thinking), or by looking If you have chosen Thinking (T) these statements circumstances involved, I prefer to uncover utilized when making decisions. I enjoy weighing in order to be consistent and rational. I make neither my own nor others' desires can sway where logic is important. I can be seen as If you have chosen Feeling (F) these statements individuals care about and the perspectives of make the greatest decisions. Values and what is me. I enjoy taking actions that promote or uphold compassionate in my relationships. I am concerned I am sometimes experienced by others If you are enjoying our content, subscribe to our channel and do not The Judging (J) style is focused on coming to conclusions, and completing tasks. A prospecting (P) style is adopting and responsive to new opportunities and shifting To store information, organize our ideas, make all humans use both judging (thinking and feeling) But when it comes to how we interact with the judging or prospecting--tends to dominate, So, how do you approach situations: should or are you flexible, open to change, If you have chosen Judging (J) these statements decisions according to my preference (whether that I like a planned or orderly lifestyle, value more comfortable, and strive to keep life as rushing just before a deadline. Sometimes I focus If you have chosen Prospecting (P) In my external life, I make use of my Intuition). Others may perceive that I favor a to comprehend and adjust to the world rather receptive to fresh insights and knowledge. I Congratulations! If you successfully you know your personality! Now, it's time learn what are your traits and how to use them growth. And on this channel we have plenty We highly recommend watching every video from These videos will be really helpful for you!