How does the pile of plywood end This video will be the whole Okay, so I built my first cockpit a couple years building it and playing with it I learned a lot of building this stuff, I decided that I'm going to it better. So last summer I started building new months to finish the whole build. This video will product like this. And if you're interested in the corresponding separate standalone video where I I'm building it. So let's get started and I hope 3D model of my cockpit in Fusion 360 with few for you to download from my website for free. Just First I started working with the base plates will be actually lying on the floor so in this be too much stress on those joints. The part under in this case I decided to use half lap joints exact center point I added my miter saw to the started chopping wood off. And used some sort be a lot of dust. Unless you have really good And after drilling a couple of holes and a lot great with clue, and started assembling the whole just keep everything in place until the glue has And in this case I also decided to add one extra just to make sure everything stays together. For chipwood that I had left over from my previous to save my plywood. And the track saw is something After a quick assembly I also added a few casters major mistake that I need to fix in the future so But once this part was done it was time to move I'm going to need some sort of workstation the Ikea table legs are not too sturdy, it this project was basically measuring everything then measuring again and cutting smaller pieces I also use the track saw to add grooves / a hand router would have been much better tool for kind of felt a bit unsure with the hand router use pocket holes with these joints so I could these small pieces to the corners just to make At this point I decided to cut Ccontrol Ppanels a bit later. And after that was the final panels to the front panel setup. And just small pieces separately. So the basic structure of to the details a bit later. But now it was time this was the most challenging part of this whole lot of small triangles and I'm actually going to And after the triangles it was actually time I actually had to combine the track saw Then started cutting the smaller pieces and a bit more difficult for myself, because it's the small angle at the end. I wanted to have angled nice detail but a bit more challenging to build. underneath the side panel so I can easily route was time to first drill some holes and then using And I'm going to make another hole, a bit for the modularity that I'm actually going to be be visible, I really need to make sure that this saw is really great tool for cutting this sort few centimeters with my jigsaw. And after all the first to drill a lot of pocket holes and then of these triangles I cut at the beginning I used just to add extra strength. This was actually quite These are the great moments of any build to look as they are in your plans. After moving inner panels. Here I also added the maintenance cabinet easily since they are going to house So again, cutting the hole with the track saw actually just going to attach this with glue and this is actually enough in this case since the At this point I also figure out that this would be I have everywhere. And at this phase I'm not even Just trying to fill those holes with point I also decided to add the insides for these parts. The idea of these side grooves, or perhaps controllers for different games, So for example space simulators with the left joystick and when I take the left joystick off and bring the throttle simulators with the same setup. And finally I added the end, I have two small children so this needs to on it. Even if it's something that shouldn't it was time to move on with the project and start hatch to the inside. A lot of small stuff at this attachments so I could attach these parts together The last large sheet of plywood I saved to be the suitable piece out of it, then measured the casters would be running. And this time Also some corner rounding for the section Then it was time to start fixing the big as wide as the space between the cabinets which cabinets all the time. So I had to take some track saw but since that wasn't enough I had to At this point I also started trying DCS display I had in my previous cockpit simply wasn't basically the cheapest 27 inch display I was able here is that measurements were for the narrower into the cockpit. Spoiler: this was a bit just going to notice that I'll still going to small strips of woods where I can attach the game As an extra detail I decided to add some And I'm just using four millimeter First cutting them to the right size and using in the place with clamps until it actually dries the bend shape, and just looking a bit nicer. Now I'm just trying out them with screeshots of Hornet DCS dashboard, it's time to move on finalizing the side cabinets. And This phase is going to start with perhaps the most Because there isn't a single right angle in the these triangles in this place. These And these are going to support the side panel. with my tracks saw. Which is surprisingly accurate One of the sides had so steep angle that I couldn't use my table saw and some creativity to [Music] That's good enough. And to attach the side panels I to some threaded inserts to the triangles with basically permanent part of the setup I am still panels or new stuff to the side panels. Then it again, like adding some skids underneath the side part of the height. Just adding them in place with some glue and nails. And also adding trims around the side cabinets because this is really First I'm just attaching them to the right place, the angles perfect. And then I'm taking a router lower them one centimeter. And also adding a For inside groove I ended up using my table And since we're not allowed dado blades reason, I just had to make multiple And finally rounding the corners and also just I ended up gluing just the butts some clinge film just to make sure it because I still I'm still going to need Theb few more important details like the actual And basically I'm going to use and just gluing and nailing it in its place. And for the future panel designs. and as final again is something that where I can switch a couple of holes. One important for the cup Once the basic structure of the cockpit was starting the painting the first thing for me to [Music] First I went through all the major like that with the wood filler before doing it was time for sanding. And this is a phase The second step, I went through all the surfaces hide most of the wood grain. And then again sanding with the fine grit paper, it was areas got two coats of the gray paint that and on few occasions I also used black paint After the paint had dried I started attaching the trims in this warning tape flying around I figured out it For the assembly I got some, I guess And just adding some extra nice with that one it was time to get my laser [Music] After painting things really started looking playing with electricity. For the lighting I pick up for around 20 euros, a breakout And if you want to get some more details about My basic process for panel is that I start with Fusion 360 and design the Then I printing it in white PLA. This I designed the markings and using light burn and panel that has been spray painted black. And this but also they are transcluent so when I turn cutting a hole for the lighting control panel, started soldering. And there was a lot of soldering Nice thing is when things actually fall in place and Finally it was time to attach the panel in its place. And after I was done setting all the wiring under the side trims. Because these are really really good. And even if I say so myself this this moment. My dad was able to come help me so we ended up having three generations working with really difficult to carry alone. And while we had everything together. At this point I also realized because it was just too high for comfortable hours of extra work at this point. For display display arm, but just create a separate pillar the ceiling so it wouldn't lean. And I really suck welds so it stays together. Then I just add it in Then it was time to get back with the details like cabinet so I can mount for example joysticks or one extra LED strip just for the looks and I decided to floss mount my Virpil Control Panels, flush mount trim that I can add attach the flush mount trim into the surface. For monitor arms that I had lying around. On the left I added the mouse. I decided to mount right hand it's better suited for Hornet for DCS. central joystick and while I was at it, I also that I can move it back and forward in the groove After attaching the center mount for the joystick expecting, I didn't measure it but I realized that too close to each other and will collide into good thing because this forced me to build a kind I can drop in the groove. And again it made the small details like some cable routing here, in when I'm sitting in the chair, and a really a separate panel for the stream deck and this is for the stream deck. And I just couldn't resist looking extra details I also decided add these small detail that looks really nice. On my left printed this stand for it. And this one is for the since it's hooked to a separate computer. Since I dashboard display I just created this small trim My first game specific model for Star Citizen So in this case I again designed, 3D printed, and And it actually came out quite nice. Just for the red and green lights that flip on and off. really need to watch this specific episode. After panel with the green glowing trackball because, was in place I hooked the buttons to a Leo Bodnar BBI- 64 board that's basically working as the interface so the computer understands my to be dropped in place. Also as a small detail here. I had painted with the silver [Music] To be able to use mouse for longer periods and, playing some FPS games, I designed and in place easily and take off quickly if I need to. one more detail to add especially for Star Citizen: simulator and DCS for example, was quite useless any gauges on it. And it wasn't a touch display. I could just add some extra overlays and touchscreen lying around, so I decided to create a by cutting a hole into plywood, adding the display cables. And I also had this extra tablet lying I decided to add that on to center pillar use for GameGlass. So after this addition I'm But in reality this sort of setup is never truly a lot of interesting stuff coming in the future.