I really don't get it This fool.. How could she possibly replace Miss Viola.. And marry Mr. Qin? This marriage.. It was forced by the old lady practically at the cost of her life Saying something like.. Her birth chart is auspicious.. And she's destined to bring good fortune to her husband Want some candy? It's really sweet Sweet Sweeter than candy Fool Wayne The baby is kicking me Hahaha! Feel it The baby just kicked me Silly Hmm Are you being good? Yes I'm the best behaved Then listen to me Write your name On here Hmm Be good Wayne If I sign this.. Will it make you a little happier? Nina Qin Wayne Alan Qin Here Take her away Wayne where are you sending me? Wayne aren't you coming with me? Wayne wayne aren't you staying with me? Grandma i'm sorry i can't accept it a loveless marriage Wayne Wayne pick me up tomorrow Wayne pick me up the day after tomorrow Wayne the day after that Huh? Have some cake Write your name on it Nina Qin wayne I'm a little scared I remembered I'm not some little fool Nina Qin i'm the Shen family's daughter Tina Shen Blood my child Help! Dad! Save me! Tina! Tina! Tina! Tina! Tina! Mr. Shen! We arrived too late The young lady just gave birth to a pair of twins The older one didn't make it Leave the dead child behind Never let the young lady know about this Yes sir Tina! Tina Baby hold on tight How come those two look so much alike Mr. Qin what's wrong Nothing Maybe I saw it wrong It's been five years i've finally returned to Capital City those who hurt me are you ready to pay the price? Hello dad don't you think you owe me an explanation why is Anne Shen back in the country? Mommy that kid looks so much like me Wait a minute She poisoned me back then Caused me to be disfigured and lose my memory And left me wandering outside You all clearly promised me that you wouldn't let her appear in front of me again Dad knows you've been wronged But you know how biased your grandpa is Recently he used the excuse of arranging a marriage for her to call her back again Don't worry Once she's engaged Dad will definitely find a way to get rid of her So it was her who hurt Mom The culprit is Anne Shen Hmph Watch how I teach you a lesson Dad Anne I heard that Tina Shen that tramp Came back with a kid She's here to attend your and Mr. Qin's engagement party right? I really don't know how she had the nerve to come back Thick-skinned I guess That tramp really came back at the right time If this were ancient times A woman like her Losing her virtue before marriage Would've been drowned in a pig cage long ago Big-- Protecting the environment is everyone's responsibility How long have you been pickling that mouth of yours? It's so flavorful Whose little brat are you? Watch me today-- i'll skin you alive! Come on! the young master must-- eliminate you in the name of the moon! Who are you? Get lost! I'm your dad Mr. Qin He's your son What? Help! Miss Shen has a problem with my son? Any issues? No no no Help! Let go of me! An old man is kidnapping a child! Hey! Where's that brat? Where did he go? Run! You're quite the runner huh? Weren't you good at running? Legs giving out now? Big brothers I really don't have any money! How about you take me with you? Kidnapped call my daddy and ask for money Little brother We're not interested in your dad How about you let your mom come and bring us the money? But there's no mommy Ethan Come behind Mommy Be careful of the blood Don't let it splatter on you Where did this little girl come from? Get her! Ah! This is so cool! let go of me! What are you up to you big villain? You little rascal You're quite energetic today Looks like the medicine is working What medicine? I'm not sick! If you're a man let's duel! You're not playing fair! No more running around okay? Daddy! Mommy! Why does he look like me? Let's go Let go of me! Heh heh I'm not sick! I don't want to take the medicine! Oh my little ancestor! This medicine was made with Mr. Qin's.. ...heart blood just for you! Oh dear Alright alright Go quickly and prepare a new bowl of medicine Mr. Qin This fire scorpion.. ...can only be taken once a day You've already taken two If your anger flares up It could endanger your life How about.. I find you a woman.. ...to help you cool off? No need I'll go downstairs Just rest in the room Alright Is Anne Shen still inside? I sent her away If it weren't for the young master's illness We wouldn't have to borrow the Shen family's hot spring resort You wouldn't have to marry into their family either Like a clingy plaster Can't shake them off I'm sorry I didn't mean To spill the medicine It's fine Be good and drink the new medicine Then copy the Heart Sutra 20 times Okay young miss? I've found Anne Shen's room number Okay Sweetheart Stay here Wait for mommy for two minutes Mommy's going to take care of a big bad guy Be good Don't run around anymore okay? Anne Shen Let go of me! Don't move Wayne Qin You little fool Fool Take the birth control pill It's been five years Your ability to turn your back on people hasn't changed a bit Not one bit There's 300,000 in this card Should be enough to buy you for a night What do you take me for? Just another woman Alan Qin called for me? Is that it? You didn't even recognize me That slap just now Was for the present This slap right now is for the past What are you talking about? I'm not here for service I'm here as a customer Nowadays, male models charge 500 a night Your skills are terrible I'll only pay you half 250 You.. Take it She she she.. I I you.. Straighten your tongue when you talk to me Speak clearly Mr. Qin That person just now was.. The eldest daughter of the Shen family Tina Shen Your fiancee Anne Shen's sister Hello? The room number you mentioned.. What exactly is it? Anne Shen isn't inside Roy why are you here? I told you to copy the scriptures twenty times as punishment Have you finished? I just got back And I'm already being punished to copy scriptures? Oh no His cold syndrome is acting up How is that possible? I clearly saw him drink the medicine Mr. Qin You've already taken two fire scorpions today If you keep going like this Your blood vessels might burst Saving Roy is more important Mr. Qin If something happens to you How long do you think Roy can survive? Otherwise Why don't we go now to the Shen family's Heaven Hot Springs? I'll call mr. Shen right now It's too late Gather all the Qin family bodyguards immediately Meet at Heaven Resort Are you planning to Force your way in? IXZZXI-MOOD iXZZXI-MOOD Yes My son is really good Come here wipe this off Good thing Mommy didn't ask me where I was last night But.. That big boss who mistook me for his son.. Who exactly is he? Mommy.. I heard that when people die.. They get reincarnated They get reincarnated Daddy has been dead for so many years.. Do you think he might have.. Been reincarnated as someone else? Ethan.. Oh no your daddy he's going to be reincarnated into a mosquito and then mommy will smack him to death If he's lucky he'll be reincarnated As Little Black Woof woof woof woof woof note woof woof woof Hahahahaha Miss something's wrong! Mr. Qin just barged into the resort with people! What? What! Roy Daddy has already lost your mommy Please don't let daddy lose you too Daddy Don't cry Daddy don't cry Mr. Qin the eldest Miss Shen they barged in Wayne Qin How dare you break into my Heaven Resort And you even dare to stop my people You.. You must.. Give the Shen family an explanation Miss Shen It was wrong of me to barge in That's my fault It's just that today my son suddenly had an acute illness He urgently needs the hot springs at your Heaven Resort for therapy You-- since when did you have a son? That's none of your business I just want to sincerely ask Miss Shen to allow my son to use your hot springs to relieve his acute symptoms Acute illness? Let me take a look Ethan Miss Shen Name your price As long as my son can use the hot spring You can ask for any condition For him to treasure it so much it must be because it's tied to him and his first love Viola's child Why would I need to be kind about this? Mr. Qin The hot spring at Heaven Resort can only be used by the Shen family Please take your people and leave immediately There is a marriage arrangement between me and your Shen family specifically with your sister Anne Shen Before I marry her I ask that you let me continue using the hot spring After what we did last night You still want to marry Anne Shen? Has your conscience been eaten by a dog? Miss Shen means for me to break off the engagement Marry you? You're a dirty rotten cucumber You're not even worthy to be my lapdog Get lost I heard Miss Shen has a son too You dog of a man You actually used your own biological son to threaten me If anything happens to my son not a single person in the Shen family will have a good time It's not impossible I have one condition A contract of servitude I don't want to Then get out You're really something Stop right there Did I say you could leave? And one more thing Outside I don't care what you call me But at home you have to call me.. Miss Hey Miss What can I do for you? I'm thirsty now Go get me a glass of water Oh by the way Where's the maid? You should act like a proper maid I prepared a uniform for you Go change into it So hesitant Hurry up and come out! What are you laughing at? Oh I wasn't laughing This uniform has a unique charm You're laughing at me aren't you? Oh I'm laughing I'm laughing because my dog just had puppies You're clearly laughing Still laughing It had twins Tina Shen! The contract is canceled Hey don't be mad don't be mad don't be mad! Calm down Have a candy and calm down Why does she look so much like that little fool? You-- This table is dirty You have no sense at all Hurry up and clean it This man.. Why is his butt so perky? What are you looking at? Looking at your butt Nothing Is my butt nice? You.. You.. Bring me the black diamond collagen cream Put some on me Mm-hmm And my neck too My back is sore Come and give me a massage Here Over here little Wayne A bit higher What did you just call me? Hey Wayne What's up? What are you doing? There's nothing in the contract about kissing You... i think your nanny job is way too easy i order you to go to the market right now and buy groceries for me buy groceries at the market? Yes the market has good quality and fair prices right now anyone who knows how to live goes there Learn from it Here's 100 yuan Four dishes and a soup don't say I'm stingy forget about sea cucumbers and abalone There's got to be some good meat right? What are you doing? You're coming with me I don't want to! No! No no I don't want to! Wow so handsome! Go back go back go back! Let's go So handsome! Look at this radish from our family! My daughter is just like this So fair, big tender, and fresh Is she married? Think about it think about it! No, no not interested Handsome guy! Don't you feel like we're destined to meet? No, we're not How else could I run into you here? How about adding me on WeChat? Not appropriate I'll have my daughter get a divorce Then she can marry you with kids Even more inappropriate No, no no Consider my offer! No, I'm just here to buy groceries Tina Shen Tina Shen Help! My youngest daughter is eighteen! No, no no! Ladies and gentlemen! Listen, listen listen! Please let go of my nanny nanny! Oh, so you're a nanny huh? Hey, ma'am! Your daughter doesn't work for me but you will ma'am! Ma'am, you're good enough! She's not interested in you! Alrighty! Okay! Take care! This chicken's not bad! What are you doing? Get lost! Take this! I don't want it get lost Take it I don't want it I can't hold it anymore Here Freshly slaughtered Absolutely fresh Want one? Wayne Qin Watch out! Going grocery shopping with Mr Qin It's totally different These vendors Normally aren't this enthusiastic What are you up to now? There's a puddle in front But I'm wearing high heels What should I do if I can't step in water? I'll carry you over Hey! Wayne, your current identity is my family's nanny i hope you can keep a safe distance from me Oh, remember to change into your work uniform when you get back i really like it Young Master, i'm going to take a call please, don't run off anywhere Hmm Luckily, Dad didn't ask me why I didn't take my medicine last night That's because I drank it for you How does he look So much like me So much like me No wonder we were mistaken for each other Turns out we look exactly the same We're twins You mean the big boss is my dad? Impossible, Mommy said-- daddy died a long time ago She personally scattered his ashes Even if he were reincarnated-- he'd only come back as our big white dog Woof, woof woof Hmm Then we're probably not twins Pineapple, do you like my mommy a lot? Hmm Let's swap clothes Later, you go find my mommy-- i'll go find your daddy Why? Well, my mommy's not getting any younger It's time to find a partner I need to evaluate your daddy See if he's suitable for my mommy So, what if.. My daddy passes the evaluation? Then the beautiful lady can be my mommy? Yep Come on, change now Go get the stuff ready Miss Shen, have you seen Mr Qin? What do you need him for? Miss Anne Shen has arrived Anne Shen? What is she here for? I'm here to see my fiance You still dare to show up in front of me? Was the lesson I gave you five years ago not enough? Tina Shen Can't you see the situation clearly yet? I am now already in Capital City The most powerful man Wow When did you get the gender change? Mr. Qin's fiancee What do you even know? And now you're already... a well-known disgrace What do you have to teach me a lesson? Lacking class Tougher when faced with trash Don't you get it? I'm Mr. Qin's fiancee You... Not convinced, are you? Go find my family's maid She's the one who spoiled me What's your maid worth? Little Woof Woof Mr. Qin Your housekeeper is Mr. Qin? Hey Little Wayne She just said you.. Are some kind of thing No no! Mr. Qin! I didn't say you're not a thing! You said he's not a thing? No! Mr. Qin you are a thing! You... you are! Okay enough! Why is the dog barking at someone else's door? Little Wayne Bite her Tina Shen! Do you really think you're something special? Fine What? Tired from playing games You guys keep chatting Call me when the food's ready And you Our score We'll settle it slowly You From now on don't just let any random person in Mr. Qin Mr. Qin you.. You were joking just now right? My teacher Heard that young master Ethan's illness relapsed and specially sent me over to check his pulse You're the apprentice of the famous doctor Hong Jingtian? Yes that's me Go get Roy over here Mr. Qin Look This is the new prescription my teacher made for the young master What are you guys doing? Do you know that a man who doesn't respect himself is like rotten cabbage? What's been going on with you lately? You keep saying all kinds of nonsense Young Master Roy I didn't recognize you last time I'm really sorry about that Let's reintroduce ourselves My name is Anne Shen From now on I'll be your doctor Men and women shouldn't touch each other casually I'm not going to hold your hand Roy give her your hand She's going to check your pulse *Mimicking sound* How could this happen? The pulse clearly indicates good health How is my son's pulse? If I were to say the young master is in perfect health How could I reasonably stay by Mr. Qin's side? No the young master has cold penetrating to the bones His pulse is weak and floating it would be best if during the daily herbal bath i give him a massage Little Young Master Don't worry once your daddy and I get married i'll be with you every day you'll definitely get better You're talking nonsense I'm perfectly healthy You're lying Hmph If you marry her I won't let you be my daddy anymore What did you just say about Roy's pulse? Huh? Young Master Cold stagnation and Qi deficiency Yang Qi imbalance the pulse is slow and weak Are you really a disciple of Hong Jingtian? Mr. Qin Of course I am Looks like his reputation in his later years is about to be ruined He took you in as a disciple Yet you can't even properly read his pulse You can't even take a pulse Roy's pulse is completely different from what you described Leave Don't show up in front of me again As for our engagement I will talk to Mr. Shen and discuss it properly Mr. Qin I've studied medicine for ten years There's no way I could have misread the pulse Mr. Qin Mr. Qin! Roy Go have something to eat first After I finish eating Do I have to take the medicine again? Your condition has just started to improve a bit you must take the medicine on time The medicine made with the Dark Lord's effort can't be given to the wrong person again Don't make that mistake Oh no my stomach hurts I need to go to the bathroom Oof Oof oof Ethan What do you think of my daddy? Other than being a bit unmanly ZZXI-MOOD other than being a bit unmanly Other than being a bit unmanly he's actually pretty good to you He's a good dad But we still need to observe more To see if he's worthy of my mommy You better figure out a way To throw the little young master of the Qin family Into the pool for me Miss Anne I wouldn't dare to do something like harming the little young master of the Qin family I really can't do that I'm not trying to hurt him I just want him to catch a little cold that's all Once he falls into the water Struggles a bit I'll pull him out right away You wicked woman Who? Pineapple run that way! Go find Daddy and Mommy I'll distract them But what about you? Don't worry about me just run! You wicked woman! Your plan.. I heard everything! I'm going to tell Daddy What are you standing there for? Hurry up and chase after them! Yes! Why isn't lunch ready yet? Wayne Qin! What are you doing? I just asked you to do a little more work Did you really have to hurt yourself over it? I'm not self-harming Roy had a cold ailment while still in the womb The only cure is for me to take fire scorpion medicine daily and use the blood from my heart to brew medicine for him So aren't you using your own life to extend his? You must really love your biological son Are there parents in this world who don't love their own children? True But what I really want to know is why back then you were able to personally.. Daddy something's wrong! Ethan was taken by that bad woman! Pushed into the water Ethan Go throw him in You little brat I was originally going to go easy on you Help! But you brought this on yourself Down you go! Anne Shen! What are you doing? Ethan Ethan Ethan You scared mommy to death Daddy That bad auntie teamed up with the bad uncle to kill kids How can there be two young masters? Anne Shen why are you still here? Mr. Qin I'm just passing by she's lying! Wayne Qin can't see what Ethan looks like Daddy she's lying! This bad woman and the bad uncle conspired to push me into the water But then they found out Ethan and I were eavesdropping So they pushed Ethan into the water instead *cough cough* *cough cough* What's wrong with your throat? *cough cough* Maybe I caught a cold Mommy let go of me let me teach them a lesson Don't move What Mommy means is these things Leave them to Mommy mommy will take care of it okay? Hmm Zhou Coming coming Zhou take the young master to change his clothes Got it This way It wasn't me That kid he fell in by himself It has nothing to do with me Are you saying My son is lying? Mr. Qin That's not what I meant There must be some kind of misunderstanding Mr. Qin This person was sneaking around outside the resort Acting very suspiciously Daddy It was this bad uncle who pushed Ethan into the water Mr. Qin This is a lady's bracelet i found in his pocket Just now I think I saw miss Shen wearing the exact same bracelet There are plenty of these around It might be it might even belong to Tina Shen This bracelet was a birthday gift grandpa had custom-made for you at Cartier On the back of the bracelet It's even engraved with &quot;Happy Birthday Anne.&quot; You ungrateful dog stealing things! You even dared to steal right under my nose Speak This bracelet was clearly.. You gave it to me You were the one who told me to.. push the young master into the water Y-You shut up! Tina please.. You.. Let me explain Explain? Five years ago.. When I exposed you for hurting me.. You said the same thing Tina please let me explain And now you're bullying.. You're even bullying.. my son? And you still want me to listen to your explanation? What is there to explain? Tina I don't want to hear about the story behind your crime Go explain it in hell Explain? What a joke Did you call the police? The police are already on their way Explain! Explain Keep explaining! Dirty hands That was way too cool Kids shouldn't be watching These bloody scenes How did you handle things? Wayne Drink your soup Drink your soup Drink your soup Drink the soup Soup Wayne your feet are bleeding Wayne Silly girl What's wrong? Why did you suddenly think of that silly girl again? Tomorrow come with me to the Shen family's old residence We'll meet with Mr. Shen and make it clear to him that my engagement with Anne Shen is canceled You're pretty sharp Little Wayne Little Wayne come on up! What are you doing? Your seat is in the front The road down the mountain is tricky drive slower I even bought you a new black diamond gift box Make sure to cooperate with me later At least you know what's good for you Got it The Shen family driver looks quite a bit like Mr. Qin Yeah he really does Totally looks alike So much alike I was so scared just now We must have been mistaken How could Mr. Qin the overlord of Capital City possibly be sitting in the driver's seat driving for the Shen family's daughter? Grandpa Maybe I should just leave Tina She definitely doesn't want to see me What are you afraid of? Grandpa is here If she dares to touch you today.. I just Grandpa What does Grandpa want to do to me again? Make me kneel in the ancestral hall or kick me out of the house? Why are you just getting here now? Mr. Qin What brings you here too? Mm The food looks pretty good today I just happened to bring him along To grab a bite How dare you! No respect in front of Mr. Qin! Acting so rudely! Mr. Qin I heard from Anne that you brought people and barged into our Shen family's heaven Resort hot springs yesterday What's going on with that? Mr. Shen About that matter.. I am terribly sorry It's just that yesterday my son was feeling unwell And urgently needed the hot springs Sigh You and Anne are about to get engaged So we'll be family soon It's just a soak in the hot springs no need to apologize As for Anne she studied under Master Hong Once she marries into the Qin family She can take care of the young master every day The young master's condition will surely improve I'll take your kind words Actually the reason I came today is because there's another important matter Hey you know what? Have you ever heard of the miracle doctor Master Ye Baishu? Uncle Ye Back in the day He was the one who cured my poison He's the only one who knows that I was the little fool This miracle doctor is always elusive like a dragon I heard yesterday that he visited your Shen family Mr. Shen Could you introduce me to him? No You can't let him meet Uncle Ye Oh no! Oh sorry about that My hand slipped Let me wipe that off for you What are you doing? Hurry up and get to the point I *am* talking about the point Sigh Mr. Qin About this Doctor Ye's situation.. Even I don't know much But.. Once Anne marries into the Qin family.. Who knows maybe.. Sigh this engagement is settled then anne hurry and have a drink with your fiance come on Alright fine Are you going to say it or not? Let me ask first about the whereabouts of Doctor Ye Mr. Qin I toast to you Sorry Little Qin can't drink today He's Not feeling well Kidney supplements Little Qin Time to take your medicine Tina Shen you how do you know Mr. Qin He takes kidney supplements Open your mouth Tina You and Mr. Qin this is.. I'm doing this for.. my sister's happiness you know Leading by example No need to thank me Nonsense Thanks for your care Miss Shen Regarding the marriage between the Qin and Shen families.. I have other thoughts I want to cancel the engagement What? Cancel the engagement? No way! Mr. Qin.. You can't cancel the engagement I can give the young master.. Treating cold syndrome You can't treat me like this! How are you going to treat it? Even your master is helpless Let alone you You can't even get a clear pulse I.. Mr. Qin Anne has been apprenticed to Master Hong for five years now How could they possibly misread the pulse? Is there some kind of misunderstanding? Or maybe.. Tina Shen did you say something to Mr. Qin? Seriously hurt your sister Tina i know you don't like me Usually you hit me you can curse at me all you want I don't even mind But.. Why do you have to.. Ruin my marriage? Even if you don't think of me You should at least consider Our Shen family right? Tina Shen! You're the one who's shameless Becoming a disgrace And now you want to ruin your sister too? How could I have such a unprincipled and shameless granddaughter like you? Are you trying to bring shame to our entire Shen family? Have you said enough? Grandpa Ever since I was little whatever Anne Shen says you believe it she causes trouble you blame me five years ago she poisoned me made me disfigured and lose my memory my reputation is ruined You can't even bear to lay a finger on her Not even a single finger Now Clearly she's the one who's incompetent She can't even take a pulse correctly And yet you still think I'm the one causing trouble Grandpa It's obvious the two of us they're both your granddaughters So what? Do you think I don't feel pain too? You all enjoy your meal Grandpa Mr. Shen Anne Shen took my son's pulse I was right there She couldn't even take the pulse properly She is completely unworthy This engagement must be called off Mr. Qin Mr. Qin The marriage between the Qin and Shen families was arranged by our ancestors The only one worthy from the Shen family is Tina Shen Grandpa You have to stand up for me! This is such a tragedy! Stop crying Our goal for today has already been achieved I know you're anxious but that doesn't mean you had to grope me down there Who groped you?! Stop flattering yourself I was just reminding you to get back to business Who reminds someone by making them hard? Well That's because you lack self-control Don't blame it on me What kind of person are you? Miss Shen I only agreed to be your nanny for three months During this time I ask you to maintain the proper distance from me Don't cross the line Then leave! Get out! You all dislike me You all despise me Stop crying Here have some candy You.. Did you clear out the entire shelf of the convenience store? I don't know what kind of candy you like So To avoid having to go back again I bought all the candy-related stuff from the store for you This is also candy Just open it and try it Then you'll know This candy I'm not reimbursing you I just checked This is size M It doesn't fit I can't put it on There are also candies with this kind of wrapper You can't even tell the difference between candy and condoms All these years Don't tell me you.. You haven't used it have you? Ah That expression.. Looks like I guessed right All these years Mr. Qin.. Who have you been.. Staying so pure for? Hahaha Since you're so curious about me.. I don't mind giving it a try with you Have a candy Calm down a bit Don't be mad Wayne Don't be mad Do all women like eating candy? Wayne Candy is sweet Eat it Who else likes candy? Hmm There used to be a little fool in my family She especially loved candy She would often hide it under her pillow By the time she wanted to eat it The candy had already melted Yet she still ate it So gross One for Wayne One for me Hehehe Wayne's Hide it here What are you doing? Wayne eating candy candy is sweet Eat It's all melted So gross Wayne Wayne don't throw away my candy Wayne Only fools eat candy My candy My candy I feel all stinky Sticky too Can I take a proper shower please? Yeah Wayne Yeah Wayne Do you really think she is disgusting? Do you really think she's disgusting? The candy melted on the wrapper Isn't that gross? That's because she thought the candy was the most precious thing She wanted to give it to the person she loved the most How do you know that? If that silly girl knew you said that about her she'd be really upset wouldn't she? Too bad she's already dead If she wants to be upset again she can visit me in a dream Stop pretending to be all sentimental Drive What's wrong with you? Drive and take me somewhere Mr. Qin did it for Tina Shen That tramp Broke off the engagement with you Yeah That bitch No idea what tricks she's pulling She's got Mr. Qin completely wrapped around her finger That's Mr. Qin we're talking about the most powerful man in Capital City And yet for a tramp like Tina Shen He.. Mr. Qin.. Ugh.. Where is he? Wait.. Forget it You.. You.. Come help me put on my shoes You wretch How dare you ask Mr. Qin to put on your shoes Are you trying to get yourself killed? Do they look good? They look good But shoes like these You already have fifty pairs at home Looks like When you were polishing my shoes You got familiar with all the styles I own didn't you? Then I'll trouble you to buy out every style of shoe in this store that I don't already have If you buy even one wrong pair then tonight You'll have to polish one extra pair of shoes Miss The shoes in our store.. At least tens of thousands Are you sure you want to buy all of them? These shoes These shoes And those shoes I don't want any of them Wrap up all the others for me And the necklaces shoes and bags Pack everything up Send it all to Heaven Resort Yes What? Mr. Qin feeling the pinch? If you want to stay by my side Just working hard isn't enough Your money I want it all to spend on me That's what you get for disliking me earlier Hmph Spend as much as you want Just don't make me carry it back That's all I ask Anne What's wrong with you? I know where I lost What? Mr. Qin He just loves playing the simp for women Huh? The famous Mr. Qin Has such a fetish? Mandy's grandmother Holds such a grudge After I broke off the engagement with Alex How could she Suddenly invite me to the party? Something's fishy Little Wayne Have many people in Capital City seen you? Besides your Shen family in Capital City no one else knows what I look like Mind your own business I use the Black Diamond Collagen Cream from Sansao Liangmu every day Look at my firm and plump face I'll definitely stun everyone at the event Hmph You'll accompany me to the banquet as my bodyguard Ah! It's burning hot! Shen Tina Let's go Don't be mad I didn't splash water in your face on purpose Come on come on Put on your sunglasses And you'll be too cool for anyone Now you really look like you've got that bodyguard vibe Why are you having a nosebleed? Pervert Me? Who is this young lady? She's absolutely stunning Yeah but.. the bodyguard next to her doesn't look that great Miss Shen I heard you sent Anne to the security bureau She even ruined her engagement with Mr. Qin Anne Shen offended Mr. Qin He was the one who sent people To have her locked up It was Mr. Qin himself who called off the engagement It has nothing to do with me Miss Shen holds so much influence She can't even plead for her own cousin? Miss Fu you're being too serious I'm actually quite timid Really timid Every time I see Mr. Qin It's like a cat meeting a mouse My whole body starts shaking Shaking like a sieve Trembling all over Right? Little Wayne You're really bold You even dared to call off the marriage with my brother And now you still have the nerve to attend my grandma's birthday banquet Is there anything that you Tina Shen wouldn't dare to do? Mandy It's a joyous occasion Why are you saying things like that? Tina I'm happy you were willing to come to my birthday banquet It makes me really glad Wishing grandma happiness as vast as the Eastern Sea and a long life like the Southern Mountain Not bad Oh dear I feel so embarrassed Grandma I accidentally dropped Miss Shen's birthday gift It's broken Such a delicate stone carving Now it has a flaw What a pity The Fu family never keeps damaged goods Miss Shen don't take it the wrong way It's just a rule in the Fu family Just like a woman who has lost her purity She can't enter the Fu family's door This broken stone We won't accept it either Hmm Miss Fu Actually dares to mock the eldest daughter of the Shen family like this I bet the old lady has given her silent approval This ornament.. If Miss Shen takes it back Does that mean she's accepting the Fu family's insult? Exactly exactly Damaging someone else's gift to you at will The upbringing of your Fu family is really something huh Truly impressive Who do you think you are Speaking here tina my girl you'd better take it back This thing Really doesn't please my eyes I actually think This broken stone carving has a unique charm Grandma Since this decoration doesn't please you Then give it to me Alex Broken stones Have no collectible value Grandma But I love it and that's priceless Grandma's getting old She can't control you anymore If you don't listen to the elders.. Bro You'll suffer for it Tina long time no see Long time no see Alex about what just happened Thank you Tina you're being distant with me I heard you were coming So I specially prepared a "Three Herbs Two Trees" black Diamond Gift Box I always hear the other ladies saying that it can target wrinkles deep in the skin And it's refreshing not greasy Take it back and give it a try Alex You really get me I've been using this all along Miss Shen If there's nothing else I'll be heading back You.. He's your bodyguard? Just a temp He's got a bit of a temper That temper.. Doesn't seem like an ordinary person Hey don't go handsome! Let me buy you a drink Mandy he's just a little bodyguard He still has to drive Tina Shen later Probably can't drink right? Little bodyguard Drink with me! Tonight I'll.. I'll get you a luxury suite Get lost You Little bodyguard In Capital City no man has ever dared to refuse me don't refuse a toast only to drink a forfeit At least you know what's good for you How dare you splash me Tina Shen, did you eat a bear's heart and a leopard's gall? What happened? Grandma Tina Shen's bodyguard splashed wine on me Tina Shen How dare you laugh at me Did you do it on purpose and tell him to do that? Miss Fu My bodyguard is very well-behaved if he splashed you he must have his own reasons What's that smell? Oh, I get it He wants to use red wine to get rid of your stench You should thank him You bastard! I'm going to tear your mouth apart! Are you okay? Let me take a look Tina You didn't get hurt did you? Alex Lend me a clean set of clothes After you change we'll go to the hospital I don't wear second-hand clothes You.. Fine I'll take you to buy new ones Let's go Stop right there! You think you can just leave after what you did to my granddaughter? You made her like this and now you want to walk away? Mrs. Fu It was your granddaughter who tried to hit me I dodged Is that wrong? Grandma It's all that bodyguard's fault i invited him for a drink but he actually threw the drink at me Little girl Since you can't discipline the people under you the old lady will discipline them for you today someone Take him down for me Let's see who dares Mrs. Fu My people Tina Shen's people Are not for you to discipline So Are you really going to go against the Fu family Over a mere bodyguard? Grandma If you're trying to anger Grandma to death Just say it directly Tina Shen you've been away from Capital City for five years You probably don't know that my Fu family is no longer what it used to be Oh Let me tell you Tina Shen Thanks to Anne's recommendation My Fu family has already connected with Mr. Qin How dare you insult my Fu family like this! Aren't you afraid that if our two families join forces Your Shen family will have no place to stand in Capital City? I'm so scared Mr. Qin right? Is that right? Mr. Qin Mr. Qin mr. Qin the third master of the Qin family i never expected at an event like this to run into the most mysterious big shot from Capital City I didn't expect the eldest daughter of the Shen family to be so familiar with Mr. Qin It seems their relationship is quite deep That aura That appearance Is otherworldly Could it be He really is that person from the Qin family? How is that possible Tina Shen's bodyguard How could it be Mr. Qin? Mrs. Fu Since you seem to enjoy disciplining others how about You keep a better eye on your juniors? Otherwise One day they might die Without even knowing why Let's go I'll take you to buy some new clothes How could it be? Grandma I think We've all been played by that Tina Shen That wretched girl Who is Mr. Qin with his status and position? How could he possibly be just a bodyguard for the eldest daughter of the Shen family? Mr. Qin the third master of the Qin family Even the head of the Shen family has to show him some respect That cunning little brat! Alex! I'm warning you one more time A woman like her will never be allowed to step into the Fu family's house Sir your clothes Just leave them here You.. Take off your clothes.. And your pants What are you doing? I'm helping you apply the medicine What are you doing? Are you done? Alright Sorry if I offended you What are you doing? You.. You.. In the end you've become the boss Because of you Let me apply some medicine for you It might hurt a bit Try to bear with it It started Does it hurt a lot? No it doesn't I'll try to be gentler Stubborn as a mule Does this hurt? No it doesn't How about this? No it doesn't What on earth is in your head? Trashy thoughts The pants are too small Get me a larger size You're putting on weight in your middle age My dear Miss Shen If it weren't for you just now.. I could have.. Stop talking I could have fit into them I told you to stop talking Anyway about what happened today thank you Miss Shen knows how to say thank you? How about I thank you instead? Let's cancel our agreement Let me go free You were protecting me today just for this huh? What else? You have quite the imagination How about this you tell me where Dr. Ye is How does he know uncle Ye treated me? Could he have figured out that I was the little fool? That expression of yours.. You've met Dr. Ye haven't you? I just think that a certain Mr. Qin Mr. Qin Someone as cunning as you would never meet someone who truly cares about you I have met someone who truly cared about me but I let them go myself Silly girl if back then Don't be silly Tina Shen What he said was definitely about his son's mother Viola The favor of saving me I'll owe it for now I'll repay it later Silly girl I miss you Alex Yan what brings you here? Sorry about what happened today How's your bodyguard? He'll live If you're free today bring that little guy from your family Let's go together to the Fu family at Guanlan Mountain Let's camp at the resort area Sure So that little rascal doesn't get bored at home all day I'll go home and pick him up later So can I take this to mean you're accepting my pursuit? Keeping your distance from girls is the bare minimum of respect You're just a driver Get in the car Thanks Alex We'll head out first Can you slow down a bit? What did you say? If I start dating Alex Yan do you think Mandy's grandmother would be furious? And also This is clearly my car Why were you being so aggressive just now? The Fu family clearly looks down on you You two won't have a good outcome Nonsense! Back then Alex and I were almost discussing marriage If it weren't for me calling Ethan Hello Mommy? Hello? Ethan Tonight mommy will take you camping with Uncle Alex Camping Okay Mommy i'll be ready right away What's wrong? Are you catching a cold? Then we won't go camping i'll take you to the hospital for a check-up No i'm not sick come back and get checked then you'll know Hello This kid is really worrisome Pineapple i have a great idea You should just head back In a bit I'll ride with Alex Taking the kid camping I'll give you two days off These two days Don't show up in front of me Been waiting for you to say that Alan Arrange for rain bombs I want to see heavy rain at Guanlan Mountain tonight A torrential downpour The youngest and most beautiful mommy I'm not sick anymore I can go camping now But.. Aunt Zhou said you had a runny nose I didn't have a runny nose If you don't believe me look! Hmm That's strange This cold.. How did it get better so fast? Because I took my medicine like a good kid The medicine worked of course! But.. Mommy can you.. Not abandon me? I've been waiting so long.. For this day.. So long.. Alright Mommy won't abandon you What's wrong with me today? Why can't I say no to my son? My little young master why are you sneezing? Are you catching a cold? Quick Lie down on the bed let me check your temperature Where's the big bad guy? Who? My daddy? Oh Mr. Qin? He went to the Tianlan Mountain Resort for an inspection Such a sunny day yet he insists I go and pray for rain I just don't get it Scissors paper Are we really going to sleep in a tent tonight? Yep mommy's going to show you the stars Didn't the weather forecast say it would be sunny all week? How come it's suddenly raining? I'm so happy You little rascal why are you being so well-behaved today? Did you do something wrong? Tina Thanks Alex Hope you like it Mm-hmm no way i can't let the beautiful lady marry this uncle Mommy Let's go check out another place Sure! Where are you taking Mommy? Who's that? Wayne Qin That kid.. Why does he look so much like Roy? Alex i have something to take care of Can you help me look after the kid? Sure Wayne Qin what are you doing here? Heard the business here is doing well Came to check it out The Qin family has such a big empire You still need to check on the Fu family's business? How could it compare to the Shen family? After all even small gains are still gains Thriftiness is key to running a household This guy.. Why is he sticking to me like glue today? Can't shake him off Like a piece of gum I'm heading down the mountain to buy something Drive there Why do I remember that today you're supposed to have a romantic day with Alex? You gave me two days off for that Yes But don't forget Your contract is still with me Alex can you help me take care of ethan Let go of me Where did Mommy go? She left What happened? Nothing Tina's child How come he's with her bodyguard you look so much alike Stop the car You did that on purpose didn't you? Weren't you the one who told me to drive? You-- You're jealous This is for you Don't you always say-- their black diamond collagen cream-- Can precisely target wrinkles from deep within-- and works really well-- plus it feels refreshing on the skin? It is really good But the one you gave me last time-- i still have some left I don't want it But when that kid from the Fu family gave it to you-- you accepted it Huh? That's because Alex gave it to me! You're crazy I'm too lazy to deal with you Didn't the weather forecast say it would be sunny all week? Why is it suddenly thundering? Get out of the car and check I think the rear wheel has something stuck to it If it rains later The wheels could slip That would be really dangerous Go take a look Walking down the mountain would take over an hour You'll be drenched man We're out of gas Did you do this on purpose? You knew we were out of gas Yeah I knew You There's spare fuel in the trunk But it'll only get us 10 kilometers So do you want to head back to the campsite or continue down the mountain? The campsite Why did it suddenly start raining so hard? Weird You-- Turn on the heater We don't have enough fuel Are you trying to make sure we don't make it back to the campsite? You-- I'm just-- worried you might catch a cold What if you sneeze and we end up in a ditch? In the ditch Wipe your nose What are you doing? You're blocking my view of the rearview mirror You're seriously out of your mind Completely nuts It's for safety This is the only hotel around here Let's just make do for the night One night is 200 Cash only You.. Of course you didn't bring any money Hello Do you have rooms by the hour? We're only staying for a few hours Hello Hey No we don't have rooms by the hour Miss I only have 100 bucks in cash on me right now Fine Since you guys came over in the rain I'll give you a half-price discount Two rooms No extra rooms available Sir is there anything else you need? What's the Wifi password? I don't even have a phone signal How about you go take a shower first? You can use your charm to ask the front desk girl for a brand-new set of clothes And also underwear The front desk only has this men's shirt It's brand new What about underwear? Do you need it? Do you need it? Afraid you'll feel insecure? Alright Then I'll go take a shower now You Dry my underwear for me Oh right Don't you dare slack off Don't forget your status Little Wang Only those who bark are real dogs Have you finished drying my underwear yet? You better not Touch my underwear Doing something weird Drying my clothes with a blow dryer Ah Firming cream If I apply it to his abs.. I can also take the chance to have a good feel Forget it forget it Such a precious thing.. It would be a waste to use it on him Better to take good care of.. My young and beautiful face Can't let a single wrinkle form Can't touch Just looking is fine You're secretly taking pictures of me! No I'm not I pressed the wrong button Mr. Qin Your little chicken underwear.. It's so cute! Tina Shen Tina Shen Are you trying to die? Help! You're amazing! Well done! What are you doing? What are you up to? What exactly are you trying to do? You-- give it to me! Give it to me! You-- Come on! You-- come and take it! I'm warning you! That photo of yours-- i've already uploaded it to the cloud If you don't want-- if someone else sees it you better obey me and listen little wayne wayne Give it to me Wayne Qin The password 181023 The password say it properly 18, 10 23 Delete whatever you want It's already uploaded to the cloud Is there anyone save my child You Go help me pick up my phone Wayne Don't leave me Don't leave me Don't leave me Wayne Alan Take her away Wayne Where are you sending me? Wayne Aren't you coming with me? Wayne aren't you staying with me? Wayne I'm a little scared Wayne I won't leave you Where did this come from? The receptionist gave it to me You can have it It's sweet No wonder you're not drinking it How did you know? I don't like sweet soy milk Tina Shen I advise you not to.. Have any inappropriate thoughts about me Sorry Hello? Wayne You finally picked up Alan said he couldn't reach you at all We had no idea how you were doing Little Bao and I.. Were so worried last night that we couldn't sleep So that's what happened He and Viola have always kept in touch Makes sense After the old lady passed away no one could stop them from being together anymore That fool, How could he possibly replace miss Viola marrying Mr Qin? This marriage, The old lady practically forced it with her life Saying something about her having a valuable birth chart And that she would bring prosperity to her husband He was forced to marry me back then And even the name he gave me was Nina Qin Tina Shen, What are you still hoping for? I'm fine, don't worry Daddy It's Mommy who's worried about you Not me Little Bao Sorry Wayne Little Bao was being naughty again I've told him many times Told him not to call you like that Otherwise it would worry Roy It's nothing serious I'll hang up first I'm busy now Are you okay? Why did you throw up? It's nothing I'm pregnant you know I can't eat You eat If you can't finish it just throw it away The car's here let's go Yeah you're right How could he possibly eat my leftovers? Why does it feel like She's becoming more and more like that silly little fool? Mr. Qin How many kids do you have? The one who just called you Was that your child's mother? Miss Shen Have you fallen for me over time? No wonder last night You took the initiative to snuggle into my arms You were even calling my name in your dreams You got jealous just because I answered a woman's call To the point of crying Bastard! Ah! Tina Shen are you crazy? You're the one who bit me! Why are you crying? Alright alright Can you stop crying please? Okay? Drive Yes Get out of the car! Fine I'll get out What are you doing? Didn't you tell me to get out? I told him to get out Then why are you yelling so loudly? So what if I'm loud? You're fired Please get out of the car Okay? Mr. Qin Fine fine Tina Shen Are you a dog or something? I'll bite you to death! Mommy! Mommy's back! Roy Why did you come out? Oh no If Mommy and the Big Devil find out that Roy and I look exactly the same and that we swapped identities We'll be busted! This kid isn't Ethan but I clearly heard his voice Ethan Must have hit your head Mistaking someone else's kid Should I call a doctor for you? Daddy Pretty Auntie Are you sick? You should take her Back to her room to rest I'm going to the hot springs now Bye-bye Daddy How can Roy run so fast? Let's go Biting people huh? I'll find someone for you to bite Wayne Qin Little Woof Woof Don't forget you're just a servant what are you doing? Let go of me let go of me! Close your eyes You too Close your eyes for me Put me down Put me down Put me down What does this look like? My son is right here Hey Alex Sorry about that I stood you up yesterday And I even troubled you to bring Ethan back home Thank you Tina what's wrong? Oh it's nothing I bumped my forehead yesterday I'm using a boiled egg for a warm compress right now It hurts Be gentle I'm going to push harder now You.. Jerk! Tina Your bodyguard is beside you Yes Where did you guys go last night? Last night.. We suddenly ran into a heavy rainstorm And the car ran out of gas So nearby.. We found a guesthouse Booked.. Two rooms Hmm Ah Alex.. Are you free recently? Let's have a meal together If it's just the two of us.. Then after 10 PM.. We can have a late-night snack and a few drinks Feeling great! Sure! Then let's go to the place we used to go often Tina you should rest first I'll pick you up tomorrow Okay You're doing this on purpose aren't you? Huh? I'm just going on a date with Alex Isn't that totally normal? If things go well Who knows it might lead to.. You're definitely doing this on purpose! You just want to make me jealous Make me care about you right? How can there be someone so shameless in this world? What on earth do I have to do for you to feel.. I'm not interested in you Do I really have to hold hands with Alex Yan Kiss him on the lips and then get into bed with him? Or are you saying after you and I sleep together You'll stay pure and chaste for me? I've been keeping myself pure for you More like I'm staying a widow for you Let go I'll return it to Alex later You admire me You really do admire me I admire you I.. Love.. Love.. You admire me Admire your grandpa! You narcissist Luckily I have this Black Diamond Collagen Cream Great for anti-wrinkle Otherwise I'd be worn out by this man sooner or later I'll end up getting wrinkles because of this man sooner or later Sooner or later this man is going to make me so mad I'll get wrinkles Hmm But.. Could it be that he's fallen for me? Tina Shen! You're going too far! I'm going to fight you! Security! Let go! Tina Shen! Let go! Tina Shen! My grandpa arranged for me to be the manager of the marketing department And you actually had someone change it to a second-level janitor's badge! Anne Shen! You have no work experience And no relevant degree The only positions suitable for you in the company are in the cleaning department or as a receptionist I'm still the second daughter of the Shen family! How can you make me do cleaning work like this? Besides My grandpa said since you're willing to help ease his burdens Why not start with cleaning and do a good job? Keep it up! Miss Shen I believe in you! Tina Shen Let go! Tina Shen you forced me to do this Hello? Mr. Shen Hmm We've been working with the Fu family for over 20 years now We can't afford to offend them either Mr. Huang the collaboration between you and our Shen Group as for that I suggest that you think it over again Huang Youcai! So you really are here! Cheating on me behind my back! You filthy woman! Just wait I'm going to deal with you today! Shanshan! What are you doing Shanshan? Get lost! You filthy woman! You're seducing my man Huh? Mrs. Huang Huh? Haven't you made enough of a scene? Huang Youcai You actually hit me for this mistress? How dare you hit me! What mistress? This is the President of Shen Group Miss Shen the eldest daughter What? Miss Shen the eldest daughter? Miss Shen I'll call an ambulance right away Call the police! Security! Call the police! Please don't call the police! Can we settle this privately? Miss Shen please! I'm sorry I just mistook you for a mistress I really didn't mean it Mr. Huang You stood me up in our business deal And now your wife has maliciously attacked me I've suffered serious harm What do you take my Shen Group for? What do you take me Tina Shen for? Miss Shen i'm begging you can you give us another chance? We'll lower the price of raw materials for your Shen Corporation The raw material prices will be reduced What do you think? Lower the price Huh? We're not even working together anymore Will lowering the price help? Not cooperating How could we not cooperate? We must cooperate I'm begging you Can you give me one more chance please? Mr. Huang Mrs. Huang Let's continue discussing the cooperation Cooperation Sigh Just a minor injury It's okay Tina Hmm? Why didn't you dodge when she hit you? Are you still the same person I knew before The fearless eldest daughter of the Shen family? Getting hurt in exchange for a deal Is it worth it? Silly girl After the doctor finishes stitching you up I'll go buy you some candy I don't want stitches If you don't get stitches it'll leave a big scar Be good Miss Shen Listen to your boyfriend He's not-- Hey Wayne Ah You're here just in time I want candy White Rabbit milk candy Hurry and buy it Don't you have a boyfriend? I.. I'll go buy it instead Wayne might not know What flavor Tina likes White Rabbit milk candy Tina I'll be right back Thanks Alex How did this happen? None of your business I fell on my own Doctor After treating the wound check her brain too I think her brain should be examined Are you talking about yourself? You Be gentle Ah Miss Shen Please relax a bit Ah Doctor Could you be a little gentler please? Sure sure Does it still hurt? You've already given birth to a child And you're still fussing over a little wound like this? Can anyone save my child? Do you know.. how painful it was to give birth alone? Was it really painful? Yes You Wayne i'll cast a spell on you Once it's done You won't feel any pain Hehehe doesn't hurt anymore does it? Hey Tina Yeah I couldn't get the red bean flavor They only had the original Oh It's fine I like the original too Thanks Hello? Mommy how are you? I heard from Uncle Alex that you got hurt Mommy's fine Don't worry okay? Just wait I'm heading to the hospital right now Huh? I don't need you to take care of me You should hurry back With Alex here to take care of me it's fine Just go quickly Tina Your bodyguard.. Has quite the temper huh? He's just a temp It's normal for him to have a bit of attitude I'll fire him sooner or later Gorgeous Are you okay? Ah I'm fine But you.. You're acting a bit strange today Why are you calling Mom &quot;gorgeous&quot;? Mommy does it still hurt? It hurts Especially when you pinched Mommy just now But.. If you give Mommy a kiss.. Mommy's hand doesn't hurt anymore Good girl Mommy are you okay? Why are there two babies? Signature: Liu Baotian So that's how it is You're still alive Let mom take a look at you quickly! Mommy! Mommy's here Mommy, I'm sorry I didn't mean to keep it from you The paternity test report It just came out today Mommy doesn't blame you It's just that Mommy.. feels a bit sad All these years.. you must have gone through a lot Mommy.. Mommy.. Thank you Alex.. Tina, i never thought That without me knowing you suffered so much So, can you tell me who the father of these two kids really is? Yeah, who is our daddy after all? Alex, why are you suddenly asking this question? That bastard He hurt you so much I will never let him off Everything.. It's all in the past now Huh? What did you say? Roy went to find Tina Shen? Mommy, our daddy.. Could it be the Big Boss? Big Boss? Who's that? Roy, school's out why aren't you going home? What are you doing here? I.. I.. I heard that the pretty auntie got hurt So I came to check on her There are so many people here They don't need a kid like you to come see her Come on, Let's go home You've only met her a few times Why do you listen to her so much? What do you know? Hey! My backpack! I'll buy you a new one Tina So the father of these two kids is that bodyguard? Alex Yan? Sorry to make you laugh No wonder you didn't want to say it A bodyguard, how could he be good enough for you? Since when did my daddy become a bodyguard? Roy Earlier in the hospital room Did you see that man? What was he doing with your pretty aunt? Do you want to know? Hehe You know what I mean right? Who did you learn this from? Hurry up and tell me Hmph You won't even spend this little bit of money You're not even willing to spend this much How did you manage to win over my mom? It was the pretty auntie Who said I'm chasing her? Then why are you so concerned about her and Uncle Alex? Let me tell you With how stingy you are You can't compete with Uncle Alex I'm going to show you right now Whether or not I can compete Help! The big bad guy is going to eat a kid! Big Boss do you want to know how to chase after the pretty girl? Hehe Tell me I heard in a story after the princess gets bullied her knight will definitely stand up for her I think you can make the bad guys who bullied the pretty girl run for their lives Madam This time we went against Mrs. Fu's wishes and signed the contract with the Shen family when the old lady found out she got really mad at me i think our Norson Group can't count on getting support from the Fu family anymore What are we going to do from now on? Don't worry honey I've already contacted some parents at the kindergarten First we'll get Tina Shen's kid kicked out of there When the time comes once Mrs. Fu feels a bit better i'll go and deal with her for you Who are you? What are you doing? Mr. Qin how is he here? The love incense I prepared finally has a use Leave a breath Yes It's so hot How can it be so hot in the spa? Mr. Qin What are you doing here? I came for a massage Saw you Mr. Qin Came over to say hi Mr. Qin I see that you seem a bit uncomfortable Let me take a look at you After all I am a disciple of Hong Jingtian Since you're a disciple of Hong Jingtian then I clearly didn't take the Fire Scorpion medicine so why is my body feeling so hot? I need to check your pulse to know for sure Alright Mr. Qin i.. Meixiang Anne Shen You've got some nerve huh Mr. Qin I.. I was wrong please please forgive me You're here Yeah I'm here Wayne Qin Why are you here? You pervert what are you looking at? You Shen family people.. Are you all this bold? Could it be.. He found out Ethan isn't Roy? You.. What's going on? You're hurt! Let me take a look Your dear cousin Anne Shen really went hard on me I'll take you to the hospital Let's go You.. You.. Let go of me You have to take responsibility for what you did to your cousin Tina Shen Get off Get off me Wayne Qin Wayne Qin, what the heck? Am I really that strong? I actually knocked him out cold Stop pretending! Hey! Wayne Qin Hey! You dog, Wayne! Little Wayne! Time to wake up! Time to wake up! Could it be a stroke? Is he dead? Dr. Ye! I have something to ask you This person's chest wound.. The bleeding just won't stop Tina, girl who's the injured person? One of my bodyguards Then point your phone at his face Let me take a look at his complexion Hmm This is due to &quot;Meixiang&quot; (seductive fragrance) However.. It seems like it's not just Meixiang Does he normally.. Use any medication regularly? He.. Seems to have been taking Fire Scorpion Fire Scorpion? Hmph No wonder This Fire Scorpion.. Is used to treat cold-related illnesses But he doesn't have a cold condition It's actually his son who does Has a cold-related illness This child with the cold-related illness can't handle the potency of the fire scorpion so an adult has to take the fire scorpion first Then mix the blood into the medicine and have the child consume it Doing it this way are there any consequences? Using fire scorpions for a long time Will shorten your lifespan Okay Got it Dr. Ye Thanks I'll hang up now To save Roy You can even be ruthless to yourself But why did you abandon us back then? Hello? This is Wayne's phone Who are you? Oh You are.. Viola? Didn't Wayne save my contact? Who exactly are you? Why do you have his phone? You're here I am.. Mr. Qin's friend Friend? Since when did Wayne.. have any female friends? I don't care who you are Let me tell you I am Wayne's.. fiancee Now Please return his phone.. to my fiance Nina.. Nina.. Nina.. You dream.. and still call out your first love's name And to think just now.. I was actually feeling sorry for you What are you doing? What am I doing? I should be asking you what you're doing! Why are you bothering me? Are you mad about what happened last night? Is that why you're upset? Isn't that exactly what you wanted? What I wanted? With your crappy skills You'd still lose money even if you paid someone to take it Hello? Okay I'll come down and get it right away What? I'm going to get some medicine You bought medicine for me? My medicine? Alan would buy it for me Birth control pills Did you know? Continuously taking Fire Scorpion Will it shorten his life? I know To save Roy He is the only heir of the Qin family As long as he can grow up healthy I will pay any price You're a parent too If you care about Roy Can you give me dr. Ye's contact information? Impossible Where are my pants? I kept them as evidence for a future lawsuit Then how am I supposed to get back to the West District Villa? I'll leave you a pair of pants Just consider it a favor It's the last bit of dignity Alan Qin send a suit immediately To the villa in the East District You answered my call Yeah Don't worry I just told Miss Xia.. Don't misunderstand I'm your friend Who's friends with you? Or do you want.. Miss Nina to know.. that you.. are my servant? I'm warning you.. don't casually.. give people nicknames Fine Come in Mr. Qin talk business Anne Shen has already been restrained How do you want to deal with her? I will personally interrogate her this afternoon Alright I'll head out first Mr. Qin Seems like you've had quite an intense battle here Hey How did you get hit? Anne Shen's medicine I was with her at the spa ran into her she drugged me with an aphrodisiac You went to the spa Jealous? Me? Who's jealous? I'm just curious How come you went to the spa alone? Were you trying to... No I wasn't! I was going to ask you what kind of charm did you put on my son? As soon as he heard that you got hit by Li Yushan He insisted I go to the spa to teach her a lesson Isn't that totally normal? I'm just that lovable Adored by all Even cars blow their tires when they see me! Your son was knocked out by me Isn't that to be expected? You.. What are you doing? Aren't you confident in your own charm? Feeling confident? Just showing some support I am Wayne Qin Anne What's going on with you? Grandpa I have something to say Mr. Qin What are you trying to do? Take action What are you doing? Three Mr. Qin You give this to Anne Yesterday your granddaughter gave me some kind of drug So today I'll give her the same Mr. Qin That day I really didn't do it on purpose I'm begging you Please forgive me Where did the marks on your body come from? It was Tina Shen Tina Shen poisoned me Tina Shen? Yes Tina Shen How much have you been hiding from me? How many things? This tastes great If it's good drink more! Roy Why aren't you going home for dinner? I want to eat Aunt Pretty's cooking The soup she makes is so delicious really? Miss Tina Shen actually knows how to cook You sure talk a lot Since it tastes so good.. I'll have a little too Daddy you should try some I'm going to play with Ethan Go ahead Take it easy Wayne Have some soup Did you make this soup? I made it What's wrong? Why is the soup she made exactly the same as the one that little fool made? Exactly the same Tina Shen who are you really? No What do you mean by that? I just made some soup that's all Why are you talking so much today? Did you really make this soup? I made some soup Do I need to write you an instruction manual too? Let me ask you one more question You'd better answer me honestly Or don't blame me for being rude The drug you gave Anne Shen back then what kind of drug was it? What kind of drug? The drug that caused Anne Shen's whole body to be covered in red spots Who drugged her? You won't admit it huh? Not admitting are you? You Yes That's right I did drug her Because she deserved it She had it coming I don't care about your fight with Anne Shen That's none of my business I just want to know Where is the woman whose face you ruined? The one whose body you destroyed? I don't know what you're talking about Answer me I said I don't know What are you talking about? Do you really want me to Spell it out for you? You slept with some random guy back then Anne Shen caught you So you drugged her You even tested the drug on someone else That woman you tested the drug on Who is she and where is she? What right do you have to question me? The matter with Viola Have you explained it clearly? And also The child who calls you dad Have you explained that clearly? Daddy Mommy Please stop arguing That woman named Viola She keeps pestering my daddy Her child is from her ex-husband What? Mommy Ethan just sent me a distress signal His location keeps changing right now He might have been kidnapped by bad people Ethan Ethan Roy why are you calling her mommy? Ethan is my little brother Aunt Tina is my mommy Who told you that? A paternity test If you don't believe me take a look Second Miss Are you sure? Tina Shen will come? Tina Shen treats her child like a treasure Right now Her son's smartwatch is in my hands How could she not come? Ethan Ethan Look here I am Ethan where are you? Ethan Ethan Anne Shen What are you doing here? Stop Wayne Qin You're late Now Tina Shen and your child you can only choose one Why should I choose? All of this was orchestrated by me from the start What do you mean? What I mean is step by step I got close to that bitch Doing everything she wanted just to make her lower her guard I know she's back for revenge Then isn't he is that your biological child? She had the child with some random guy outside Then brought him back and said he's my son Does that mean i have kids all over the place? Five years ago That wretch didn't die out there Today I'm going to deal with her myself You little fool I was wrong I was just acting all along I don't believe you Mommy mommy! Something bad happened something bad happened! Daddy's in trouble! What happened? What's wrong? Mommy look Silly little thing I'm sorry Please forgive me From now on I will definitely be your obedient little puppy Wholeheartedly Never leaving or abandoning you Woof woof Want to be a simp huh? Get in line I'm first in line