Directed by Christopher Nolan, Interstellar But if you got a bit lost in the final act So let's do our best to walk through the Life on Earth isn't great in Interstellar. Massive dust storms are tearing up the planet, cease to exist. Looking for answers, NASA turns to the skies, &quot;Okay. Now you need to tell me what your plan is As we learn at the beginning of the film, a mysterious wormhole that appeared near Saturn, could sustain human life. A few years later, the Endurance and its crew Anne Hathaway's Brand are going to visit the of colonizing one. When they arrive on Dr. Mann's planet, the spot is the perfect place for humans to live. &quot;Our world is cold, stark, but undeniably Unfortunately, it's soon all revealed to be Although each of the original 12 scientists never fully considered the possibility that he might die alone. Although he resisted the urge for years, he another team to travel to his planet, intending At this point, Mann is so desperate to leave Paranoid that the Endurance crew won't go done, Mann attempts to kill Cooper so he can Back on Earth, Cooper's now-grown children His daughter, Murph, played by Jessica Chastain, become uninhabitable. So naturally, she's trying to persuade her NASA facility where she's been working on humanity to escape into space en masse. But despite Murph's warnings, Tom refuses After Cooper left them in their grandfather's heard from again, Tom lost all faith in NASA's &quot;Dad didn't raise you to be this dumb, Tom.&quot; &quot;Dad didn't raise me, Grandpa did. And he's buried out back with Mom and Jesse.&quot; Convinced her brother is making a terrible knowing that since Tom relies on his crops to try to extinguish the blaze. That buys Murph enough time to return to the in the hopes that once Tom realizes his family no choice but to join them. Hey, desperate times call for desperate measures. Without enough fuel to either return to Earth planet,, Cooper proposes to use the gravity maneuver, which would send the Endurance off Edmunds was sent to assess. However, every time the Endurance crew approaches their perception of time due to relativity, passes as years for anyone outside Gargantua's &quot;Every hour we spend on that planet will be By executing Cooper's slingshot maneuver, of 51 years. They both realize this means Cooper will have back on Earth, as they will likely have died Gargantua's gravity. Still, Cooper knows that his plan is humanity's Adding even more drama to Cooper's decision humans experience before death. According to Mann, as our brains grasp at thing we most desire to see again. Mann speculates that Cooper's final image reason for living. &quot;At the moment of death, your mind is going for them.&quot; By giving up hope of seeing his children again, over his own motivations for survival. With its depleted fuel supplies, Endurance gravity after completing Cooper's slingshot Before beginning the maneuver, Cooper decides into the black hole. In addition to relieving the Endurance of can collect the quantum data from inside the need to complete the gravitational equation While odds are slim that TARS will be able is determined to at least try, since it's However, Cooper doesn't tell Brand that losing drop in weight. In fact, an additional shuttle has to detach Cooper decides that he should bite the proverbial planet and restart the human race. He doesn't tell Brand until the last moment decision, but even without the possibility peace with his probable death. After falling into the black hole, Cooper it back to TARS, hoping the additional data Although he expects to eventually get crushed spared once his shuttle is ripped apart. And that's when things get crazy. After surviving the wild ride, Cooper gets library that allows him to look back into bedroom, including the day he left for his &quot;If you're leaving, just go.&quot; &quot;No. No, don't go, you idiot.&quot; TARS determines that they made it through by &quot;them,&quot; the mysterious beings who constructed Since the beginning of the film, who &quot;they&quot; While NASA realized the wormhole was artificially beings, they didn't have any information about be benevolent. TARS deduces &quot;they&quot; also must have built this reality. And sure, it's confusing, but it's also nice Although the library where &quot;they&quot; bring Cooper room serves as a window into the exact same At first, Cooper seems to think he's been see her again, but TARS helps him understand reality for Cooper, allowing him to access And why do they wanna help us, huh?&quot; &quot;I don't know, but they've constructed this reality to allow you to understand it.&quot; Together, TARS and Cooper figure out that influence different points in space-time by gravity are the fourth and fifth dimensions But what's the point of all this? Cooper deduces that he's been brought here gravity, and that Murph has to be the one Cooper realizes that while he thought &quot;they&quot; one who's most important to saving humanity The library exists to ensure that Cooper will she needs, right when she needs it. After Cooper finds himself stuck in the library, quantum data that TARS collected from inside The information the robot gathered from inside and Cooper is the interdimensional messenger, constructed this library and created the wormhole &quot;But something sent you here. They chose you.&quot; &quot;Well who's they?&quot; And once Cooper understands his new purpose, humanity aren't extraterrestrial at all. &quot;They didn't bring us here at all. We brought ourselves.&quot; As it turns out, at some point in the future, can navigate through all five dimensions. It's these future humans who used gravity send scientists to explore the 12 planets These future humans are also the ones who Just as Cooper is able to use the library happened, the humans of the future have been to ensure their own survival by assisting of their past. After realizing why the library exists and quantum data she needs to save the world, such complex information from another dimension. &quot;Love, TARS, love. It's just like Brand said. My connection with Murph, it's quantifiable. It's the key.&quot; The robot doesn't understand, but Cooper explains to guide him to exactly where he needs to As Brand explained earlier in the film, love including time and space. Cooper decides to code the quantum data into before he left, assuring TARS that she will When TARS asks how Cooper can be sure, he &quot;Because I gave it to her.&quot; He's confident that her love for him will love led him back to her. Sure enough, as all this is happening, the bedroom, drawn by an unseen force. She suddenly understands the &quot;ghost&quot; from contact her with dust patterns on her bedroom Reminded of her love for him, she finds the to look up for humanity. With the planet dying, humans have to evacuate But to solve the gravitational equation that of Earth, you need quantum data gathered from &quot;The equation couldn't reconcile relativity You need more.&quot; &quot;More. More what?&quot; &quot;More data. You need to see into a black hole.&quot; Thinking that collecting such data is impossible, and that her father has abandoned her. However, once she realizes that Cooper was her the data she needs through the watch, humanity's survival. Once Cooper passes along the quantum data, having served its purpose. Cooper loses consciousness, and he later wakes Just as &quot;they&quot; brought Cooper to a library and save humanity, &quot;they&quot; also brought him his mission. Only instead of Earth, he's now on a gigantic Thanks to Murph's calculations and the data finally able to leave Earth en masse, and space habitats. And it's all thanks to those mysterious forces, sure people would find him once it was time Due to the &quot;time slippage&quot; that Brand warned around Gargantua, at least 51 years have passed But it's only been hours for Cooper. By the time he makes it to the space habitat whom he last saw as a little girl, is an old On the flip side, Cooper appears to be about While Cooper is overjoyed to finally be reunited live much longer, and tells him that he should &quot;No parent should have to watch their own Cooper takes his daughter's advice and steals wormhole and join Brand on Edmunds' planet. Like Cooper, she would've only recently arrived, her the same age until he reaches her. Sadly, Edmunds himself has died at some point to send a team to his planet. But as Brand takes off her helmet and breathes it's evident this is the planet the astronauts rebuild and, eventually, thrive again. Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Looper videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the