The boss asked me to accompany Section Chief Xiaolin. You are so pretty . No , you see, it's just a gramophone. Nothing special. What's going on? Look back . Let's see if we're on the right track. What's going on? There 's a small boat parked by the lake . There's this gramophone on it. Whose boat is it? I don't know. There's no one around. There's only this phonograph singing there. It's really scary. What's going on? Bomb bomb bomb. Go out and have a look. No need to bother, why don't you die? Minister Cheng, someone is attacking Gongmaru. We'll protect you and your wife and evacuate immediately . The phone line is cut, don't you? Did you mean that the phone line was cut? Yes, yes, that line , that line. Hey , I'm coming, he's coming, he's coming. You two guard the stairs. As soon as you see him , shoot immediately . You two are protecting the lady's room. It's me. I think he must not dare to come up the stairs. The most likely attack point is, Minister Chen, you two are always behind the table. My subordinates and I are ambushing the glass concierge on the terrace. Whenever he comes in, we will shoot him to death. He is dead. Is there anyone else? Listen to the noise, it seems that there is no one . Come , come, come, come. Yujie Yujie Bingxue ah Yujie Yujie you Chen Wenhan is the former deputy director of the Department of Civil Affairs of the Kuomintang government and is currently the Minister of Social Affairs of the Communist Party of China government. Yes, you are the military commander, right? You are the Falcon Assassination Team under the Blue Clothes Club . Yes, if you want to kill me , shouldn't you die? Just because I surrendered to the Japanese. That's enough. That's enough. Originally, I had a habit of not killing relatives in front of their families, but I changed my mind about you. I decided to let your wife see you die with her own eyes. This is the best education for her. Who is Section Chief Yu? Get down quickly. Section Chief Yu is already dead. Hey , okay , hey, hey , hey, god , ah, ah, ah , ah, what are you looking at? The cat is hungry. Let me ask you something. Hey, the old cat is calling you. 26 Isn't it Lao Bao who is on guard? It's you. Hey, I'm asking you. You won't answer. Old Bao, Liu, Lao Li. I've found it . I've found it . Go and tell the captain who you are. You'd better go and tell the captain yourself. It's closer to you from outside. Your blood will not be shed in vain. Believe me, those who killed you will pay 10 times the price . Captain, let's see if Ge Tong has arrived. I want You , ah, captain, captain, captain, the delivery man has arrived. Haha, Jiji, brother Hedong, you think a ton of good TNT should be enough for this time, okay, brother Hedong, good job . Haha, Liu Quan asked the brothers to unload the truck and leave. Come on, Mr. He, brother , go back and tell the president to reassure him that as long as the Communist Party dares to If we take action, we will send all the hostages on the train to the west. Hahaha, just in time . Remember , we will wait for your good news. Has the goods been found ? Brothers are searching. Don't worry, as long as we are on this train. If you hook him up, you won't be able to run away. The information about wild ducks is absolutely accurate. The president asked me to tell him. I told you to take the goods back and tell the president, please don't worry. I 'll say goodbye now, please . OK , let's go. Liu Quan asked the brothers to put the explosives on the train and divide them into 10 equal parts according to the original plan. Each carriage is 100 kilograms, which is a quick closure. You little brat, if you cry again, I'll fucking kill you. What are you going to do? Let me go, kid. Drive me , ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, whoever disobeys will be killed. Be honest, open your sword, sit back , sit back, why are you searching the brothers in carriage No. 9? They haven't found the goods yet, and they haven't reported back. What a fucking waste. After the explosives are settled , you Take someone to see what the hell is going on after such a long time? Let's go and be one. two three four can't cry my love my love my Love, don't, don't, don't shoot. Who are you? I am Cheng Chen's passenger. My name is Yu Ruping. It's you . You know me. Of course I don't. But I heard them say that you are the Prince of Binhai. Big brother, are you? Why are you here? The army and robbers were here just now. A fierce fight broke out. I was so frightened that I quickly hid in the luggage rack of the No. 6 private room. I was able to escape the search of the bad guys. A few minutes ago, the car stopped. I heard no movement outside and jumped down from the luggage rack. I was about to open the door to escape, but the car door opened. I couldn't open it , so I had to come back here. Then how did you escape? Why do these bad guys want to hijack a train? Just now I heard them say that they want to blow up this train together with Binhai Railway Station. Blow them up. Bomb up Binhai Railway Station and bomb the Communist Party. That's none of my business. But if you want to blow up me too, then just blow it up. It depends on whether their heads are strong enough. If you want to fight them, I will kill them all. But you are the only one and now there are two of me. I don't know anything. This is a fully automatic submachine gun. The bullets are already loaded. You asked me to kill someone. I didn't tell you to kill someone . I just gave you a gun. If you want to take it, Of course I have no objection to being killed by others while holding a gun. Just follow me and stop shooting if you want to survive . Don't hit me. Don't hit me blind. What are you talking about? Is there anyone? What's going on? Where's the bomb? I don't know. As soon as the fire flashed, the old man flew into the sky. The grenade took off the safety ring and pressed it under the old leopard's body. As long as the body moved, he would be promoted . Just bounce it up, his grandma, I must kill him, everyone, don't run around, put out the fire, put out the fire , put out the fire, look outside, shoot quickly , what should I do now, stand over there, I really can't run anymore, Captain, we are searching, no need. He 's in the car at the back. Brothers, come with me and kill him. Wait. Although I don't know who he is , I can feel that he is a terrible person. All the dozen brothers I brought with me have been reimbursed . Have the fuses for the explosives been connected? OK, okay . All brothers push to the front 6 carriages and immediately detonate the explosives in the rear carriages. Kill him. Hey, haha. Kill him. He's going to blow him to pieces and turn him into ashes. Let's go, Captain, are they there? Then Liu Quan, hey you Take the people onto the roof of the car and scatter them so you can leave them to me. Brothers, come with me. I'm ready to throw you up and knock you in from the window. What about you? Take care of yourself. Get ready to go . Ah, ah, ah, tie him up. What are you doing? I have to go to the toilet. There are so many things. You didn't want to kill me. Their heads are not strong enough. What should I do now ? They are called in. How can he listen to me? You are a woman and you will have your own way. Quickly. Go, brother, come in and help Help me, what 's wrong? Come in, help me. How many guards are in the carriage? One is dead. There are 5 more. Where are they? Go out and turn left. There is a switch box on the wall near the carriage door. Open it. The box outside is the gate. What do you want me to do? As soon as the train enters the tunnel, you immediately turn off the power. What about you ? Remember these people are well-trained killers. If you don't shoot them, they will kill you. I remember that you also need to be careful and don't worry. Hey, hey , hey. Hey hey Am , where is he? Get him out quickly. Don't mess with him. He's on the ground. Come out quickly or I'll kill him. Don't come over . Don't come over. Don't be so nervous. Do n't worry, I won't kill people and I won't do anything to you. If you come here again, I'll kill him. Why don't you shoot him? Ah, ah, everyone , be quiet. Who of you knows how to shoot? I know, I am a cadre of the Public Security Committee, I know, I am a member of the Coastal Workers' Reconnaissance Team. Pick up the gun on the ground and leave it here to guard the door of the car . This gun is for you. Come with me . Is it the sound of gunshots ? It's going to be the People's Liberation Army. Shhh, don't talk. Be honest. Act like you 're older . Four, go to option 6 and see why you want a gun. Damn , you know how to instigate people. Why don't you go and get down ? What's going on? Where's the gunfire? Captain , that's a tough one, throwing people away and attacking people. The brothers in the carriage couldn't bear it anymore. He wasn't dead and he still had a girl . Didn't you say you've dealt with him? I saw him fall. Did you see his body with your own eyes? Answer: No, I didn't see his body with your own eyes. In other words, you assumed that he was dead . I assumed that he was dead. Asshole. If he is the mother of failure, do you understand? I will immediately lead people to kill him. If you can't kill him, don't come back . Don't worry, brothers, come with me. Yeah, ah , ah, ah , everyone, be quiet, everyone, be quiet and listen to me . These bastards are going to blow up this train. If you want to survive, just listen to my command . Is there anyone who can use a gun in the car? I will pick up their gun and stand on guard at the joint between the two sides. Everyone else should sit on their seats and don't run around . If you come, leave quickly, what are you going to do? Don't ask too much. We're on guard here. If a gunman comes , shoot him right away . He dug a hole in the carriage. Find him. Captain , will you stay there after you receive it? There are rocks on the mountain in the two carriages. Give me a break. You hold him here . I can go around from the carriage. He is hiding in the carriage and has run away. Chase, chase, chase you. Are brothers, I hit him, there is no firepower to suppress him, I will give him a duck egg to try, okay ? How come there are two people on the roof of the car just now and only one of him was seen? Maybe the other one is ambushing in the car, okay? Go and take a look. Look where he is. Where is he ? It's time to pay off the debt. Are you ready ? I said you will pay 10 times the price. This way of dying is really miserable. I said what time is it now? It's about 2:30. Okay, I'll go see how the goods are being found . Brilliant, really good. In my impression, no one seems to be able to surpass you. Who are you, a communist? If you are a communist, you will kill me . If not, if you are not a communist , there is no need for us to fight to the death. You can open a fight. Price or talking about conditions . My conditions are very simple. You die . It looks like you are not a smart person. In your heart, smart people and cowards have the same meaning. Boy, then you blame yourself for your miserable life. How should you change, a beast like you who doesn't care about morality and only cares about human life ? Answer me. Besides being a coward, what else can you do ? Can you tell me? Oh, oh, oh, oh , ah, what else can I do ? What? Don't you like to brag? Keep bragging and moving. Standing here, you dare not do it. Are you a coward or a coward ? Do n't let me kill me like this, please ask you to spare me . Let me stop the train immediately and remove the fuse of the explosive. I will change it. Dinggai, please forgive me, ah ah ah ah hum, there is no way for people like you to change, only dead brothers, jump out of the car, ah , for you, please stand in turn , ah, webmaster, look Something must have happened to the good police force. They came to detonate the evacuated people patrolling the mountain . Oh, hurry up , get out of here quickly. What he hijacked was a Japanese armored car transporting gold. I never thought that this gentle man could be so frightening. The leader of the Falcon Assassination Squad , he leads this secret underground The anti-Japanese forces lurked in the concession, using the cover of opening song and dance halls and taking advantage of the favorable situation that the Japanese invaders could not enter the concession. They traveled between the occupied area and the concession to assassinate the traitors who fell into the water and undermine the rule of the invaders. At that time, it could be said that Shanghai was so powerful that just mentioning it Japanese invaders and traitors are all talking about this name .