(music: Metamorphosis - Quincas Moreira) It's rare that a car company sets out to build limitless budget, Toyota had a better the LS400, was a statement of intent, an audacious bid to take on from a company that just a few years before But what's clear is their first car, the LS helped than any other car company. Why did Toyota this audacious bid to beat the finest luxury (music) The 1960s saw the British Invasion of America, Floods of cheap Japanese cars tempted American mid-70s, they found small, fuel sipping Detroit auto makers were wrong footed, and struggled to Through the 1970s Ford, GM &amp; Chrysler tried to own cars, brought in small economy cars from their Japanese rivals. But if you can't beat 'em, call all of their American workers had more political applied to impose import restrictions on Japanese was agreed in 1981 where Japanese car companies This of course sent a clear signal to Japan's car the USA they either had to start manufacturing cars could make as much profit as possible. They so it made sense to move upmarket, especially in the 1970s were now older and more affluent. brand in 1986. The Honda Civic had competed also known as the Rover 800 would compete with the big three had in mind with the voluntary the Infiniti brand in 1987, and Mazda had plans Toyota wasn't going to be left out, and The hand-built Century limousine had been and the Toyota Crown had been in But the most luxurious car Toyota exported by or Camry. But neither of these cars came close In 1983, with Toyota's 50th anniversary looming, Toyota to create just this, the best car in the "F" standing for "Flagship". The team initially but after driving the best cars the world had to produce something much better, and it had the crowd, the BMW 7-series and Mercedes-Benz living there for months talking to hundreds of a luxury car. Videos of their findings were sent Initial designs were created but Toyota wasn't until management were happy. Serious work began 1,400 engineers and 2,300 technicians in both Designers built a mock-up of an American home in of their target customer. 1.7M miles (2.7M km) Toyota spent an unprecedented $1B USD (in 2022 PS2B they hoped was the best car in the world. It's only have dreamt of, but for Toyota this every year on research and development! and he set the team seemingly impossible quiet yet lightweight, elegant yet aerodynamic. Toyota went through 973 engine prototypes. The produced 241hp (180 kW), and when installed in the gallon (11 l/100km, 21.4 mpg US). The engine could balance 15 champagne glasses on the bonnet Making a car quieter usually involves lots But Toyota's new car needed to be lightweight, so avoid making the noise in the first place. The and the engine would be tilted to ensure the whole so reducing noise and vibration. And to make draconian over any increase in weight. He had weight by more than 10 grams (0.3 oz)! But by it was able to avoid the US Gas Guzzler tax. the beholder, but it was certainly aerodynamic, learnt from Audi and Citroen, producing a initially dismissed the idea of a front grille, realised they needed to include one to give the Those rich Americans had told Toyota they bought a known for reliable cars, but they knew American same badge as a Toyota Corolla. The name most but it was associated with the character on the 1980s TV show "Dynasty" or "die nasty" but with a few jiggling of the letters, This new luxury car was taking Toyota into new produce a stiffer chassis with less material, Each component had to be as good or better than ever finer levels. Every component was tested aging process to test for durability as Toyota other luxury brands. This inadvertently If you've learnt to make a better component, an entry level Toyota Tercel. After all, Inside there was the same attention to ensure the finish of the wood was as good memory system also stored the side mirror, The instruments were designed to reduce copy their German or American rivals, the But it also needed extensive testing. Prototypes and Crowns and driven down the autobahn at in Saudi Arabia and Australia. By the end of 1988 (music: Take it Slow - SefChol) The Lexus LS400 launched in January 1989 at in Detroit. The public were amazed. The started later that year. As a statement of right on BMW and Mercedes' doorstep. Motoring away impressed. Magazines like Car &amp; Driver rated had a quieter cabin and a higher top speed. the LS400 dwarfed their efforts. Their cars simply Infiniti Q45 were more expensive. No, Lexus' true the Gas Guzzler Tax, it was less expensive. The massive 40% less than a Mercedes-Benz 420SEL. No car sales were slumping, North American sales to attract younger buyers who couldn't afford that over a third of people who bought a Lexus Of course Lexus dealers needed more than just one was based on the Toyota Camry, and the SC400, Although these new cars were aimed squarely at export the Toyota Celsior, meaning "higher" in Latin. It with the exception of the Rolls-Royce "Lexus focused on products of superior and created an elevated customer experience Well, that was the position of Lexus. BMW and Mercedes-Benz didn't quite see it that way. Surely especially as they had to pay off the $1B they'd be dumping cars to kill the competition. BMW but it wasn't a patch on their prestige offerings. replied that its German competitors had been hadn't MIT studies shown Japanese carmakers the Germans with just 1/5 of the labour? Despite the German automakers bought a few of them and what was so special about Toyota's new car. Lexus became the top-selling premium car off on the Toyota brand, elevating its But it wasn't all plain sailing for the new LS400. their cars three problems were discovered, two of this being such a perfect car, this was a big Their response was swift, offering to pick up, repair they'd wash and polish the car and return it with Lexus reputation, their response enhanced it. and their changes were incorporated into the 1992 and inside the car got a passenger airbag. the second-generation LS. Second acts can be a and Toyota's engineers had to be careful not to 90% of the 1994 second-generation LS400 was new, yet sipped less fuel. The car also lost weight, which meant bigger brakes were needed. Thanks extra rear leg room, yet as the car wasn't any in the cabin got an update to make it better. quality and recirculated it if too much pollution suspension system, increasing the ride comfort. a 6-disc changer in the glovebox. $35,000 (PS28,600, EUR33,900, $49,300 AUD), but just $25,000 (PS20,400, EUR24,200, $35,200 AUD). A but by 1994 the demand for the LS meant that their new car for $50,000 (PS40,900, EUR48,500, BMW and Mercedes who'd been forced to drop their The strong Yen may have meant Lexus dodged a bullet. and being within reach of the middle class the Regardless, and maybe thanks to a $50M the LS sold well. Not at the high levels BMW and Mercedes competition, and also that of its Government imposed a 100% tariff on 13 Japanese the Japanese market wasn't open to US car imports. to $100,000. Crisis talks between the two nations the punitive tariffs, and Lexus dealers across The LS got a facelift in 1997 but it was the extra 30hp (22 kW) and the new By 2000 Lexus had been established for over 10 included a coupe, an SUV and the first 1 millionth sale in the US, and overtook So, it was natural the third generation LS would The engine bore was increased to 4.3L, giving management system. With a lower drag of just The interior took inspiration from luxury hotels, Japan Airlines. Those luxurious seats could be seats had their own audio controls. The air vents and passenger when the interior temperature had system was voice controlled. Once again, the interior space, but the boot space didn't suffer It got laser-based adaptive cruise control, The 2003 update swapped this out for a radar The update also featured a pre-collision airbags for both driver and passenger. A 6th Like the 1960s Citroen DS, the headlights The third generation allowed Lexus to stay ahead Japanese rivals, with Nissan's luxury brand wasn't just about US sales. Since Lexus debuted A notable exception was Japan where the Lexus was in part due to Japan's economic problems but by 2003 Toyota felt confident enough to Toyota had always struggled in Europe, and Lexus was no exception. European buyers still expansion continued, with Lexus making gains in and Russia. By 2005 Lexus was the number 1 luxury later it was the number 1 luxury import in China. car was shown through the 2005 LF-Sh or The new design language, known as "L-finesse" which launched a year later. Lexus spent big new. The number of laser welds doubled to The brand new engine was larger at 4.6L, producing and in 2007 the first all-wheel drive model wheelbase versions, but Toyota played to their the technology from the popular Toyota Prius. The fuel economy to over 30 mpg (9.3 l/100km, 25.3 advantage - not something the competition could bring hybrid technology to the entire Lexus range. control system featured infrared monitoring car got features that were ground-breaking parallel parking assist, lane departure warning now finally hold their head up to minivan But DVD entertainment aside, Lexus was again a knockout blow to the competition. Sales 12,000 pre-orders in Japan must have helped, at least in the US, were barely higher now almost the same as its German rivals, or maybe Supply of Lexus LS models also took a hit The 2009 facelift was fairly minor, but the The most noticeable change on the inside where the biggest changes lay. It received intuitive version of BMW's i-Drive system. LS400 in 1989 they were careful to place the unrushed driving. This was at odds with BMW sporty models for the extra cache it gave their charge for "M" and "AMG" versions. Lexus realised &quot;F Sport" model of the LS. It got sportier wheels, no faster, and didn't worry its competition. a match for the LS, with both BMW and Mercedes all luxury saloons were dropping as customers Despite dwindling sales, Lexus could amortise so despite lower sales Lexus hoped the next development, sharing a platform with the Toyota previewed as the LF-FC concept, with the "FC" had been refining for many years with the hope of went for the tried and tested engine plus hybrid a smaller V6 instead of the previous V8. Yet the 4.6L, and the hybrid model got a quite phenomenal as the most fuel-efficient first-generation fuel efficiency. To show how aerodynamics and almost 3 times heavier, and instead of getting Inside the customer could get optional fancy lateral fins on the dashboard were designed to Shiatsu massaging came to the front seats. To went to every level to reduce noise, even vibrations. This was still intended to be car to take on the best the world had to offer. in 2020, with a raft of small changes. The was the infotainment system which finally received could now do what the Chevrolet Spark could do money Lexus and other luxury car makers spent beat the money Google and Apple poured into Over the last 10 years sales of the other models in the Lexus range had gained the LS accounted for only 1% of all Lexus sales. but with sales like this the writing may be on the Since its inception Lexus have stuck to striving to make the LS the finest still replicate the champagne It was a reaction to people's view that Japan the US to limit Japanese expansion. It had and Cadillac sales have seen a steady decline, a growth of luxury car sales. But Lexus hasn't car makers who can still get people to pay more sell well in North America, they haven't made much But they have managed to eat into their the latest LS is even cheaper than the BMW 7-series and Mercedes-Benz S-Class Lexus attempted to make the best car in the world tried to crack the luxury market and failed - the always new pretenders to the throne waiting to credited with dominating the luxury market in just and it's all thanks to 60 designers, 1,400 to dream of making the best car in the world. To hear the story of Volkswagen's attempt to make a luxury car, check out the video on the right. story, check out the Optional Extra video. Thanks