- Does this camera make you feel uneasy with all of its eyeballs staring at you? You might be experiencing and we should talk about that. But I also wanna discuss how this camera raised $65 What? Do I have something on my face? Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and Quite a freaky little thing, isn't it? That's what the doctor said Anyway, let's find out how in investments and failed. And to do that, we'll have to and then we'll take this and test drive it for ourselves. So like all good stories, this one starts with a Light Labs was founded and Rajiv Laroia, and the company specialized These guys are legit. Dave was the former CEO of Vlingo and they developed an early and Rajiv was the CTO of Flarion, which sounds like a Pokemon, but it's not. It's the company that for LTE cellular, and Qualcomm And from 2011 to 2012, Rajiv which is an important connection But Ken! Where are the Oh yeah, sorry. So Rajiv was an amateur photographer and he had expensive cameras and lenses. He took a lot of photos with his DSLRs, but when smartphone cameras improved, he found himself using because it was always Rajiv didn't like this the quality for the convenience, and as a fellow photographer, And allegedly, Rajiv's wife because Rajiv kept in his pants pockets and And this is all according So Rajiv thought, why not make cameras that can take high quality but in a smaller package so This is where Dave enters the picture. He was working with one at Charles River Ventures, and he was bouncing around some ideas. Basically the folks at CRV but I like this. The this being Rajiv's bundle of ideas. And guess what other Sonus Networks. At that point, Rajiv with the power of friendship and they formed Light. The goal, designed cameras and other mobile devices, and use computational technology to create high quality images achieving a DSLR like that fits in your pocket. Yo, that sounds amazing. Sign me up. From 2013 to 2015, Light raised $35 million and brought on multiple executives. They also launched a simple reimagine photography. And in April, 2015, Light of their first camera and they rightfully Then on October 7th, 2015, Light officially announced the Light L16. And the hype started to grow So the L16 was slated to for $1,699. Okay, that might be a tough Oh, it got bumped to 1,950 This is gonna be tricky. Thankfully, if you through November 6th, you Well, that's actually a In July, 2016, Light raised another $30 Google Ventures, and that brings the total Things were looking good for Light, but everything changed when And by Fire Nation, I The late summer 2016 shipping But bold new products can They're doing things pretty much no one has ever done before. So there was a custom and there was a production So that's why the delays happened according to a spokesperson. I mean, fair enough, take because you only have that one shot to make a first impression and you don't wanna release a product that feels unfinished, right? Right? On July 14th, 2017, after almost four years in development, Light officially shipped to US customers. As for EU and UK customers, they'd have to wait So here it is, the long awaited Light L16. Let's dive in. The Light L16 features with a rubber grip. It weighs 15.6 ounces It features a five inch 1080p and 16 camera modules on the front with a dual tone LED flash The lens focal lengths are 28 and 150 millimeters. Higher focal length equals There's also a laser-assisted and five proximity sensors to warn you if you accidentally block On the top is a power with a cool glowing ring, oh yeah, that looks pretty cool. And on the bottom is a a USB-C connector for data and charging, a tripod mount and a Light accessory port. On the inside, L16 is powered with a custom ASIC built by Light. That's an application the fancy chip we were The L16 also features 256 which could store only 1,300 photos, but these were raw photos. Yeah, the file sizes were Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth The battery lasts for eight hours according to the advertising claims, and that's a reasonable number, I won't argue with that, but I because the battery has aged too much, so it wouldn't be a fair comparison. Also, I have no idea what They kind of look like but they don't click and they don't trigger The manual also illustrates them, but it doesn't say what they are. L16 uses custom applications all built on top of Android This particular L16 is on top of Android 6.0.1. In fact, if you swipe down while in the camera, you get the Android buttons and you can exit to the home screen. Now you can use the camera, with other apps, even a web browser. You'll see more of the LightOS UI throughout my testing but in summary, I think it's pretty and it even has tutorials So that's the breakdown of Now I'm gonna put it through its paces and see what it's really capable of. Fingers crossed. But before we do that, I that's really important to me, charity. I have partnered with Human-I-T to create the Computer And the goal is to give who are in need. Human-I-T believes technology And their organization works to provide underprivileged communities with tech products and training. And by doing so, as a bonus, and in the hands of people So here's where you come in. For every 1 million views I get here on the Computer Clan YouTube channel, I will donate one Chromebook. Simple, 1 million views Let's make it happen. Alright, let's test drive (upbeat music continues) (camera shutter clicks) Wait, The Bean is closed. How do you close a bean? So Well, if you want some bean action, you can check out my Lytro episode. Anyway, I worked with my to stress test the L16. We photographed animals, architecture, nature, and people. We shot in daylight and low light. I also conducted extra product photo tests in a controlled studio environment. And after several days of testing, we wound up with 287 photos of disk space. And we both came to one this camera kind of sucks. I try to be optimistic and but I'm really struggling to say about this camera. Okay, the logo is hot. Okay, I like the logo, For almost $2,000, you would think a sleek and somewhat freaky looking camera would be very capable, right? But it is riddled with The first big issue we noticed You can tap the screen like on a smartphone, but the L16 would we were trying to shoot. Like these leaves for example, it's a pretty simple but it still took three Then we tried the shot of me and a tree at four one try per focal length. And the autofocus only worked one time. And this must have been a but my face looks overly smooth So I do not recommend this like with animals. I tried 18 times to get an and only one of them worked This other photo is somewhat good, but the wolf's eye is slightly soft so by my standards, I would The second problem is inconsistent color and texture accuracy. So here's me in front Shocker, the pictures with this icky digital But that aside, the white It's warm and then suddenly cold. This is not a Katy Perry And this Chicago deep dish pizza, oh my gosh, I don't even I'm so sorry, Chicago. It didn't look that bad in person. The camera just could not capture the color in low light at all, and it made it look like a turd, no matter how you spin it, this is a turd. As for texture, sometimes fine details in fur will look okay, but overly sharp and not too realistic. And sometimes they will look overly soft and some of the fine details are lost. It's due to computational photography. Computational photography and algorithms to try of a photo the best it can. And it has improved a lot over the years. But back when this was and yeah, I blame the computer. The third problem is inaccurate live view. When you're trying to compose a shot, you're seeing a low fuzzy view of your actual photo, because when you're composing, only one of the cameras for the preview to the screen. And these sensors are tiny, so the quality's not gonna be that great. And it gets even worse because then the noise is all colorful and it's just dancing all over the screen. And all of these quality to compose an accurate shot. After you shoot a photo, the actual photo will and it will be less noisy. But the L16 can't show a full until it processes all the data from multiple camera modules. So you're not seeing an of your shot in real-time, to manually change settings. It also means you're not after you take a picture. When you go to open up you're still seeing that If you want to process a after you shoot it, you need Thankfully, this can be done in bulk, but you still have to wait for the camera to process every single picture. It's worth mentioning in the background while charging, but that doesn't do you And for what it's worth, you can process full resolution photos at 52-plus megapixels, but only on a computer Fourth problem, limited depth of field. In lenses, there's an and the more open or the more shallow the depth of field is. And that's the effect that creates that beautiful background that you like to see in photos. But the L16 can't create that which means a lot of your is gonna be all in-focus at once and the background might be too sharp, when artistically, you'd However, you can use the Lumen software to fake the depth of field, Oh yeah, I have my own beefs Another problem is bad performance. It's just kind of slow, overall slow. Not all the time, but sometimes it'll Sometimes the live view will play back at about 10 frames per second, And twice I received this, error message which totally Next issue, the dynamic range is very low. The dynamic range of a photo is the ratio between the brightest pixel Lower dynamic range which is the unwanted effect and highlights due to a part or too dark for the camera to capture. In L16 photos, shadows and detail is lost. And the last big problem I have Which is kind of a bummer because that's one of the Having the different focal lengths so you can optically zoom But the software really Sliding your finger up will adjust focal length but very slowly. There's a quick swipe shortcut which zooms into preset focal but this gesture only worked I have a lot of bad things but they're all fair criticisms. But would you believe me if I said I have even The video quality. So this is the built-in We're testing the picture We're just using the built-in The weird thing is, even though there's tap to there's no way that I can The video is completely automatic focus so I don't know, I might I have no idea. But this is how it looks. Everyone, where do I even begin with this? That is the quality that a $1,950 camera gets you in 2017? There's no focus control, macroblocking and compression I mean, is there anything redeeming here? The video quality looks a little better in more even softer lighting but it's still shaky because Also, this wolf just wanted How rude. Sadly, this camera is riddled with issues, but the good news is we can of some of these photographs in their Lumen software. But before we do that, how exactly this camera to capture multiple pictures and stitch them together It is impossible to summarize of the L16 into a short presentation. Light even said it would take a book to explain the full tech of the L16, and the technology is The L16 uses multiple to create the effect of a Five 28 millimeter and the five 70 millimeter and six 150 millimeter to the subject and use a Every picture shot with of multiple sub images. When composing, a single camera, referred to as the reference module, displays a preview on the screen. When the picture is taken, at least 10 cameras fire simultaneously. Each camera captures a 13-megapixel image, and some cameras are also measuring the distance of objects in the These cameras also to help reduce noise. After the capture, the is displayed on screen while other data is stored for processing. When processed, the hi-res photo is which fuses the sub images, and Lights computational and align the images appropriately. And the software will try and perform a perspective correction so there's no distortion. The focal length setting or optical zoom will dictate what region of And the L16 uses motorized mirrors to adjust the field of view for the 70 millimeter and There's not a physical focal length for every level of zoom in the L16. So digital zooming or cropping will also occur at certain focal lengths. This will reduce the spatial resolution of the final composited image, but the image resolution will All the sub-images, depth data and metadata are combined into a single .LRI, Light Raw File, which can be transferred where high resolution processing, editing, and exporting can take place. All right, let's try it Oh yeah, this $2,000 camera So yeah, you have to plug the whole camera into your computer, neat. Or you can plug a storage on the camera and transfer whatever flutes your boot. So this is Lumen. It runs It's no longer updated, but this is the latest And yes, it's always been in beta, and boy, it sure feels like it too. When you connect your L16, you can import photos into your library. There is no library support for video so when you import video, it simply throws them Lumen lets you browse in thumbnail view and change sorting options, Wait, hang on. So the L16 has the ability to shoot in portrait and landscape. You can rotate the camera and the UI flips with it. That's great, but when it doesn't automatically $2,000 people. Anyway, Lumen real capabilities are in the editing and Lumen will fuse multiple photos together into insanely large photos. The highest I achieved was 10,432 pixels by 7,824 pixels with the widest lens. This is an approximately What Lumen also does is it processes the depth so you can simulate a with your photos. Select a focus point and drag the slider. And it works okay-ish. Definitely not as clean but it's something. You also do get refinement But this effect doesn't always work. For some reason, I can't I just get the Ghostbuster symbol. But the photo geek in me is really excited to try tone editing because in some of the photos, some things were a little bit overexposed and I wanna see if we can Okay, let's see. Where can There's no curve editor, no level editor, no shadows, no highlights, what? Man, let me see if I you use this amazing technology to capture all of this raw data from multiple cameras at once, and you fuse it into one raw file, but you don't give us Okay, there's an exposure slider. That scares me though because or darken the whole image as But okay, let's try it with my shoes. Okay, we recovered the but now the whole image is dark and the whites in the shoes now Oh my gosh, Light, You're a $2,000 camera and I really can't find Thankfully, Lumen lets which is a digital negative image file, and it stores raw data. And we can edit this raw data in a more powerful application I'll just choose the Here we go. Okay, this is taking but I'm not gonna blame Lumen for that. This is an older computer. In fact, it barely meets the for the software so we're just In the meantime, I think we should talk about the elephant in the room, and that's the L16s appearance. This camera is probably most and sized holes on the front. And when you look at this, but you might feel a sense You might even feel a bit of an itch or like a crawling feeling on your skin. And if you do, that's You might be experiencing Heads up, I will give a which can trigger so it's safe to continue watching. The name formication comes which means ant. It is a tactile hallucination where you have the feeling or underneath your skin, Trypophobia, on the other that have a cluster or pattern But keep in mind, according to the American this is not an officially So trypophobia is more I'm going to show some examples so if you're susceptible to please close your eyes and keep listening. When you hear a bell, you can open them. A bunch of these images used and I have no idea why, but they showed various These images are edits of real photographs were a lotus pod or perhaps is composited onto human skin. Okay, the evil images are gone for now, I'll warn you before they come back. So why do these irregular hole and bump patterns create It's important to note that formication is a symptom of some medical conditions. It's not just triggered by some but in the context of holes and bumps, there is no proven scientific connection between these visuals and formication. If trypophobia is recognized one day, maybe more research will be done. But I will propose my theory which is based on associated learning. Our brains involuntarily and some of these functions Like when we see delicious because our brain is I theorize these images from our brain, based on life experiences. Okay, close your eyes again if There's many conditions and itchiness on our skin, like acne and psoriasis. What do all these Irregularly sized and spaced bumps. I believe our brains see wait, is that our skin? You should be feeling this irritation. You have in the past, why aren't you now? Why aren't you scratching? Do it. And I believe these because many of these edited on skin. Okay, icky images are Alright, so the export took because Lumen has to fuse before converting them into DNG files. But good news, now I can throw everything into Adobe Lightroom. And boom, we're able to without dimming the whole image, so the raw data is actually I also tried editing some low light photos and I still can't get a good result. I can only tweak the until we see weird hotspots and artifacts. Now I'll admit, I did and I maybe found a little bit, little bit of redemption here. Some of the animal photos look passable, like this arctic fox picture. And even though there you can still photograph tiny subjects at a higher focal length with optical depth of field. I also tried some product photography in a controlled studio environment and the results were decent. But even those few good traits aren't enough to outweigh with this camera, especially when you So what happened next after the L16? Well, Light never made a second generation so I think they even Light is a private company, so their sales numbers aren't their first month's internal sales goal was surpassed during the But in the end, it wasn't enough to justify a second generation. But it was apparently enough to get 121 million more dollars in a fourth and final round of investing. First generation products but maybe the tech is good enough to help the investors keep the faith. Instead of a new L16, Light This seemed like a good move because multi-camera smartphone devices were already hitting the market, like the HTC One M8 in 2014, and the iPhone 7 plus in 2016. Light partnered with Sony to combine their tech with This collaboration debuted with the Nokia 9 PureView on February 25th, 2019, priced at 699. This phone again used the which they dubbed the Lux Capacitor. - The Flux Capacitor. - Sadly, the Nokia 9 and last phone Light was involved with. By the end of 2019, Light started pivoting and into imaging tech and AI for cars. And the L16 was officially In May, 2022 portions of and some staff were acquired by John Deere for an undisclosed amount. And John Deere used this But what remained of Light And the website shut down in July, 2022. So kind of a sad end for Light, but I do have to give because they took a chance. They were bold and they were in the face of possible failure. After Light, Dave and Rajiv Dave continues to be a board including Sense. Hey, I have one of your And Rajiv went on to co-found So thankfully the founders are fine, and Light was somewhat salvaged. But that still leaves us with how the heck did the $65 Aside from the obvious I think I clearly proved but the true issues are Sadly, the L16 was DOA because the concept was And in my opinion, the was the market positioning. Market positioning is the process of establishing a brand's And this image, this identity, is used to help differentiate And some of that worked. The L16s design, whether or sleek or both, it stood But none of that matters if you're not aligning You have to fulfill your customer's needs. But you also have to be The L16 had advantages no argument there. But at a $1,950 price point, it's unlikely a regular consumer especially since they already which they carry around every day. And on the prosumer slash the L16 doesn't meet of other DSLR products. And it lacks a card and reliable firmware that prosumer and professional cameras have already had for at least a decade. It was too expensive for consumers and too lackluster for pros. And I went back through my archives to see what other consumer cameras and smartphones were capable of, and despite them being older and way more affordable than the L16, I'd say their quality is comparable. iPhone 6 plus, 7, Motorola XT1575. Even this $400 Olympus 1030SW from 2008 has very good quality and it fits in your pocket Oh my gosh, what kind would wear that shirt? So L16 blew it by not And for the customers that did buy one, I'm willing to bet, if they're anything like Brad and me, they didn't like the And at the end of the day, to make a first impression. No one said reinventing but when you wanna make that you gotta nail that sucker. Even though the L16 failed, there's still plenty of point with optical zoom. And the cool thing is, you can just walk down bust out your Ridge Wallet and buy one. I Love Ridge. I've been using it for the past few weeks because as much as I yeah, this one is starting It has seen better days. Oh gosh, a piece of it just Yeah, but the Ridge Wallet The forged carbon and aluminum strength of the And it's just so thin and sleek, way thinner than my last wallet. And it's more comfortable And the Ridge KeyCase, It holds your keys in place with just a little bit of friction so you can still move them, There's so many different but this Forge Pacific won my heart. I mean, just look at that beaut. So here's the deal, use my link, ridge.com/computerclan through December 20th. And you can enter to win a With a lifetime warranty, and 80,000 five star So visit ridge.com/computerclan, and thank you Ridge for And hey, when your paycheck comes, I'll keep it nice and Catch the crazy and pass it on. (upbeat music continues) Say Swiss cheese. Get it? Swiss cheese, 'cause holes. Shut up.