Hello friends.. I am Dr.Rajesh Kumar Now a days Fungal disease on skin is a very common problem for people of many age When people find slight (itching) infection on the knee or on any pleats, they get medicine from medical store and when it shows zero result.... ....they consult a doctor, and use the medicine prescribed by him. The infection cures temporarily and reappears after a while. These fungal diseases are troublesome for many, because of its itching and other difficulties Why fungal diseases are so chronic in humans? Surely the main reason is our lifestyle changes If you grow plants at home, Aphids attack the plant when the immunity of the plant decreases or when the fertilizer is not proper Same is the case with humans Humans are prone to fungal diseases when the immunity become weak Our immunity means...when the skin conditions are favorable for the growth of the fungus, such diseases can occur In some people, some skin complaints will not be identified as fungal disease Exfoliative dermatitis on skull (commonly called as dandruff) is a fungal disease Not only this but some round marks on the skin or infection on the nails which doesn't cause itching but causes pain.... etc are also fungal infections Now a days fungal infections are chronic in obese people, diabetic patients ( or pre diabetic stage), in some people who take medicines like..... ....steroid for a long time (which affects the immunity), as side effect of some medicine , and in people having dry skin tendency Teenagers using unwashed clothes or clothes which doesn't absorbe sweat, using creams which alters the normal skin tone.. etc can cause fungal infection People use to scratch on the skin thinking that this can cure the disease And some uses the most vigorous soap so that they can get rid of the infection But both these methods boosts the infection When we scratch the skin with nails, the normal skin tone is destroyed When this top layer is destroyed, the mycelium (root like structure ) of the fungus grows deep into skin This damages the immunity of skin and the fungus absorbs nutrients from the cells and grows further If you are diabetic or in pre diabetic stage (obesity and change of immunity in skin occur), the fungal infection may be difficult to get cured even after treatment. In obese people this might start even at teenage Now... how can we get rid of this problem? Most important thing is cleanliness Rather than using highly bleached soap (those seen in Ads) use mild soap.Highly bleached soap can damage the natural skin tone and it favours the growth of fungus Add a pinch of salt to the bath water. Avoid using the imported materials like nylon and polyester which doesn't absorbe sweat. Use cotton materials Fungus may be seen on the pleats of thigh, on the pleats below breast (for women) and on underarms Fungus grow through its spores In people who are once affected with fungal infection, these spores exist on their undergarments. If these undergarments are not properly washed and dried under sun, the infection might reappear when used further This is why some people with fungal infection get more itching while wearing certain dress So if you find discomfort in using such dress, replace it with cotton dresses The fungal infection treatment is also important Most of them get an ointment from the medical shop and stops the medicine when they find the infection is cured And again applies the medicine when the infection reappears If you apply the medicine once and stops when the infection scales down, the new fungus which grows will become resistant to this medicine And then if you apply the medicine again, it shows no result and the infection grows further So if you are using ointments use it until the infection is completely cured Homeopathy provides very effective medicines for fungal infections on skull, nails or any body part If you use these medicines properly for 1-2 months,chronic fungal infections will be cured There are some home remedies to cure fungal infections The most important medicine is Turmeric Turmeric boosts our immunity Take a pinch of powdered turmeric twice a day (morning and evening ) Add curd to your daily meals. Curd contains beneficial bacterias which boosts your immunity.. especially skin Adding turmeric and curd to your food habits helps to get rid of the chronic fungal infections Applying turmeric on the infected skin helps to reduce infection If you have dry skin, add turmeric to aloe vera gel and apply on the infected skin, this reduces the itching and other difficulties If you have extremely dry skin (skin breakage ) add Vitamin E gel (capsule) to this mix of turmeric and aloe vera gel Women suffer from fungal infection in Vagina (burning sensation and other difficulties). This occurs usually after the periods In such case.. add curd with turmeric and apply on the skin, this helps to reduce the infection to an extend Add turmeric to a few drops of virgin coconut oil (rich in antioxidants) and mix it into a paste form.This helps to reduce the infection if applied on skin daily This is because the lauric acid in coconut oil and the turmeric is a perfect mix against fungus. In some people the infection turns worse, due to the entry of bacteria (via scratching)with the fungus. Even abscess might appear. In such cases mix liquorice powder (available in ayurvedic shops) with water or curd and apply on skin.This is a natural method to cure fungal and bacterial infection Mix 3 Tsp apple cider vinegar in 3/4 glass of water, and either wash the infected area with this or rub the skin using cotton dipped in the mixture In some women the fungal infection accrue after the periods Applying this mixture of apple cider vinegar and water helps to reduce this recurrent infection Also... smashed garlic with virgin coconut oil in a paste form reduces the infections So we can reduce the recurrent fungal infection through these methods Moisture is the main reason why the fungal infection occur on our skin which is not open to sunlight or air (like folds of thigh ) Not only sweat but remains of water left after washing can cause moisture and leads to infection Always keep such areas dry as possible This is a major problem faced by people of many age... so share this information Let's meet next time with another subject.... bye !!