Hello everyone and welcome back to my home neat, we perform certain cleaning of time on this. But after I got familiar I learned how to put my place in order it really changed my life! In today's best ideas from her tidying method, which get started! Perhaps the biggest mistake of unnecessary stuff that you find at more efficient and quicker to let go of then start organizing your space in one organizing stuff that should immediately discarding things is not so easy. But motivated. Visualize how your ideal bedroom would look like without clutter. And when you see your goal clearly, it is much easier to go for it. People often start tackling their stuff months it usually ends up getting messy Marie Kondo believes the tidying up every Instead, it is better to sort all the decide what to keep and what to lose. order of the categories: clothes, books, The most important thing to keep in mind place for each item. Only then you can drawers and shelves you can use special dividers or containers or even be found in any home. When you know where your things belong you save time putting them back to their spot. As sometimes we waste a lot of time figuring out where to put something. Moreover when easily find what you need. I really like Marie Kondo's advice on recommends starting with darkest shades from the left, gradually making your way to lighter colors hanging them to the heavy items in the back drawers and upfront. This color coordination technique is visually pleasing and relaxing to your mind. We will get the our souls with positive energy. From the moment I organized my clothes by color in the closet and drawers, I can helpful when I want to find something aesthetic balance and makes your home a place of peace and clarity. An interesting idea of this method is that sizes should go together. For example, something from the same category but of your possessions can easily get lost Therefore, it is reasonable to pay separate the small items from the big to look for what we need quickly. And if boxes, the organized place becomes even suggests that all items we need easily access them, while things we don't hard-to-reach places. This simple rule smarter. At home, I implement this rule a classic frying pan almost daily. That's this WOC pan that I use on rare cupboard in a harder to reach area. I order to grab it. And this takes much to reach spot. Prize for inventing and showing us how She recommends vertical storage for papers. If you arrange things vertically Moreover it helps returning items back not buried at the bottom of the pile of faithfully. And the main advantage of folded things hold their shape longer difficult and takes too much time to you get involved in the process, boxes will delight us every time we look much less space and therefore, this kind closets and limited spaces. Can you agree that we often want to hoard our clutter in cardboard boxes? It may even seem that we are organizing our home that way. The Konmari method suggests a completely different approach that involves clear storage boxes. The main idea is that you even moving them or taking the lids off. them disappears. And of course, if you much quicker. By the way, even in everything vertically. Because the everything easy to spot and hard to mess Often when you keep food in its original &quot;informational noise&quot;. And even if your cluttered when you have a lot of items why if you place food into a food &quot;noise&quot; these labels can create in bottles, such as this one with the label, the bottle looks much better. information on the back because it is instructions for this detergent. Everything you have at home and everything you use should give you the thrill of excitement and make your life Moreover, if you only keep the items that quicker since there would be fewer items you wash floors or dust. Choosing items decluttering you will only surrounded with items that make you happy, which is a great feeling. If you liked the video please subscribe to my channel if you decluttering and cleaning. Bye bye and