According to Ukrainians, adventure is dangerous, Nikola takes risks and his old Moskvitch never fails I bought it a year ago to go to work. It's from 1982. I'm going to Sarata for work. I will stay there for 10 days, then I will go home for 20 days. I work at the power plant. The road to Sarata is bad. The first part is asphalt, The car suffers at each pothole. However, Nikola doesn't go easy and for good reason. According to him, it's the ideal car. It's a Russian tank! I'm going to make a small bridge. It's not right. In winter I have to do this. Otherwise I risk losing my exhaust pipe. You can easily break your car here. Nikola still has a long way to go. In some regions of Ukraine in winter, travelling the shortest distance Ukraine is the largest country However, they still have worries Thirty years after its independence, Ukraine remains trapped in its past Go ahead! I'll make a counter-weight The roads are bad The machines are in good condition despite some obstacles. In Ukraine, every metre gained Go! Go for it! Our roads are like this! Ukrainians have paid very dearly The economy has struggled to take off I earn 85 dollars, 85 dollars per month, it's not enough. Unemployment is on the rise and is pushing many inhabitants The Geiger meter here after 35 years. In Chernobyl, everything is contaminated and yet some people still live there. Ukrainians are risking their lives This land is mine, it was my parents' In their struggle to get by, the gaze of former heroes that there is strength in unity. These days it's a quiet city, but not long ago a disturbing noise It came from this part of the forest, or at least from what is left of it. Here men have bled the Earth dry in their search for one semi-precious stones. Golden yellow, opaque white amber, nicknamed &quot;Tears of the Sun&quot;. This Firestone is highly coveted. These men aren't wearing hoods They simply don't want They are a part of the looting groups That is, if their old military machine is able to start. The fuel isn't coming out . He's a bit temperamental. Let some air out. Wait! The newly discovered amber deposits Without their mini tank, the veins are unreachable. There are no brakes on the tank. To turn, you have to block You need strength, Really hard. One must be patient, as its speed doesn't exceed The swamps are complicated to cross. You can easily sink into an ice hole, so it's better to be careful. As for the police illegal miners At $4,500 per kilo of amber, according to Victor, the police forces Every day the police chiefs It's called &quot;working with a ticket&quot;. If you don't pay them, In Klesiv, for 8 hours of work, I refuse to pay this ticket, I will not pay the police A game of cat and mouse For now, they're advancing successfully despite their unpredictable From their Soviet past, Ukrainians have kept their sense evident even in the most remote corners although the administration The 1000 inhabitants of Shypit a store that serves as a bar and of course, The postman had to buy one himself which are much too meager This small piece of wood? It's to make sure that the window It's the Russian method. I deliver letters And once a month, As they say: Dimitri is constantly fearing in one piece by the end of each round. It's a Jigouli, model 6, I chose it I can fix it myself. I tinkered with the steering column Otherwise it vibrates Everything is far when you work here. The inhabitants are scattered everywhere. The roads are bad, Either they don't have the time I don't know. The weather is very bad here. There is a lot of snow, so the roads This is the Carpathians... Twenty years as bus driver In total, forty years that he's been His loved ones want him to give up but for him, it's not an option. I earn 75 dollars per month. It is not enough. Even for Ukraine it is a very low salary. My children tell me to stop, but as long as I am healthy, I have worked all my life. I'm one of those people The Post Office only reimburses him A rock to prevent the jiggly from ending up in the river. The bridge that allowed cars to pass Without Dimitri's willpower, dozens of people would be cut off There is often more than one kilometer I must always walk sometimes I start with this house. Anybody home? It's the post office. It's important to have the newspaper to You have to keep up with the political And that keeps us busy too, Here we are far from everything. We can't get our letters by ourselves, Fortunately, Dimitri is here. Good evening. Our delivery man's rounds Dimitri, like the majority of these forgotten hamlets, misses the good old days when the public transport Nikola shares the same nostalgia. He's been struggling for 4 hours, 15 kilometres out of the 50 that separate him Back in the times the road would most likely But contrary to today, Ukranians had the money to buy a car. In Soviet times, people had money To buy a Moscovitch or a Lada, Even to buy a TV. Now you can buy everything, I earn 150 dollars per month. It allows me to live and feed myself It's definitely not enough that's able to climb the slopes. His Moskvitch needs a push. I'll try again to see. My engine is not powerful enough That button is my turbo, No... It doesn't. He could go back down but the old Russian car Damn, it's not starting! I don't understand, I must have forgotten something Or maybe it's the poor quality Nikola shows a composure that through their daily troubles. At least he ended up a little luckier This lady, knows something about what happened. Here it's easy to skid on the curves Many cars and trucks overturn. So our neighbours and I And then we have to clean up It's traumatic. It's a nice piece of nature Mutual aid between travellers has become a necessity. You can't get on? I thought the neighbours They didn't help you? No, can you pull me? I'll tow you anyway I can. If it doesn't work, we'll stop. Thank you. Nikola is going to need luck. His Moskvitch is really not in shape. He still has 40 kilometers to go where he works, and he's not sure he'll make it. It seems that in Ukraine, the only way to guarantee your arrival unlike with a car. Well, especially the cars By horse is still the best way It's no secret that in the countryside, The various political crises, and corruption which slowed down There's even more poverty today So, any idea to earn money is a good one, whatever the risk. The amber miners do not hesitate as much land as necessary that will make them rich. They brought their tank in the middle of the marshes. But the ancient machine is What's going on? A wheel is released... A wheel is released... Shit. The middle of the wheel is worn out We have to fix it quickly. Take the track off. Damn! Damn, it's blocked. The water is freezing. Don't damage it. Hand me the hammer, Surprisingly, the wheel is repaired but reattaching the track is another story. Pull! Pull! Damn it... The track gets stuck, I can't get it back on. We have to go back. To loosen it up a bit. Again. Wait. It's going off the rails, It's hard to get the track It takes a lot of effort The men are likely to have to spend Is is still out? Yes. Take it to two or three. But two hours of struggle later, thanks to their perseverance, the tank is ready to go again. It's good. She's back on her feet. Well done, guys! They all hope that the reward that there is indeed amber at the end of their search. These men are unaware, but their thirst for money and all the inhabitants in danger. Every time they plow through the swamp clearing the forests they release an invisible poison to the whole population. They are unknowingly breathing in which has been trapped in the ground The nuclear power plant Today it's covered by this giant, that you can see in the distance. However, the site itself All the inhabitants who were were evacuated, at least 200,000 people. The City of Pripyat It's been 35 years with a couple of exceptions. This land is mine, it was my parents' My whole family ha always lived here, Why would I go anywhere else? Victoria, a civil servant, that she had in the city any longer, so she decided to return regardless of the radioactive risks. She's not the only one. There are dozens like her. They farm, hunt and fish that lurks in the air and food. Now I plant potatoes. The most important thing is to plant them Afterwards, we make preserves And when the cold weather comes, we open Victoria doesn't live alone This is my mother, Bon jour. Valentina proudly wears a medal It's a miracle that she's still alive. She was in the heart of the catastrophe. There's mum with her doctor's outfit. They were the young people of the time I worked in a ambulance. They all had the same symptoms, We were told we had to save them. But what could we do? We would wash their stomachs. I had hallucinations, I saw monsters, It was the effects of the radioactivity. I remember it with my eyes You can't forget it, According to scientists, will remain uninhabitable for 24,000 years. But not everything is hopeless Without human interference, nature is taking over. Today, the Chernobyl region and is even home Around the ruined nuclear power plant, deer, wolves and bears are more numerous This lies in stark contrast which is seeing This is the main reason: Just like Brazil, The plundering is so devastating of saying that in their country The largest forest in Europe Men no longer have the power however, the animals do. Once a month, Miroslav and his son Yuri via a very perilous path. We have to get to the top We have to feed these animals because When there's too much snow, So we're going to build them a feeder. We will fill it with salt, corn and hay. Four men lend them a hand, The truck can flip at any time. It is difficult to position yourself You have to hold on tight. You can easily fall, hurt yourself The summit is only 15 kilometers away... We are slipping! But it takes two days to reach. The frond wheels don't grip. Four hands are not enough We won't make it. Do we need the winch? Vitia, come and pull the cable! The trees, I'll pass it around Go ahead! It's no easy job to move 7 tons of steel, especially with smooth tyres. It's okay, take it off. Stop the truck! The sheet metal got caught It felt down and got twisted. It happens often. There is never anything that gets done They hope their truck will hold. As if there is a problem, nobody will come to look for them. They're lost in the middle Fortunately, the men arrive at the encampment. Here we can make a coffee, Three hours of driving on tricky roads It's -15 degrees so fat is an important component of any starter, main course and dessert. At home we have a typical meal. Homemade pate, bread It's the Carpathian meal. To wash it all down, homemade vodka. It puts you in a very good mood! It warms up well It warms up very well indeed! We all drink from the same glass. Cheers. May you have a long life, good health God willing. Health! A little strong. Every year these men watched disappear a little more, a plundering that forest rangers, policemen and politicians participating. Yuri, who has been roaming the forest is disgusted. The animals that I saw passing Well, today there are much less. Our government does nothing. Our politicians destroy nature Re-planting trees and defending animals We have an obligation to protect They go to sleep under the stars. The night promises to be gentle On the other side of the Carpathians, His old Russian car is on its last legs is a very poor speed. A second engine will not be enough Ivan will tow my car. Ivan is the guardian angel He helps the drivers to pass which lead to the power station. This is the most remote Nobody ever comes this way. And there is nobody They are used to be people But they've all disappeared. Sometimes we have It's too deep in the mud. In the remote corners the inhabitants The authorities do not have the means There are only 15 kilometers to go His Moskvitch is about Wait, my engine is overheating, it's stalling because it's overheating. Bloody fuel pump, It's all dry now. There are times like this, Just to get Ten kilometres from the power station The engine is completely gone. It makes a noise like thunder. The oil is too hot I'm going to blow it out. The antifreeze is staying down. We need to get it up That's good. It's no use. A few minutes later, Nikola will spend the night hoping to leave tomorrow morning. On the other side of the mountain, the mountaineers They're going to spend the night in -18 degrees. We put the boards underneath It will be more comfortable, Then we'll put the hay on top We need more hay. Who is afraid of bears? Who wants to be near the edge? No one is going to sleep They attempt to fall asleep as well as a fear as they've all had Climb! Forunately, I made it! I hide my shoes I'm kidding, I hide them so that If they get wet, That's our method. For mountain people, the most In the early morning, The thermometer reads -20 degrees. Did you get cold? I'm staying in the sleeping bag, As for Yuri, he's still warm he drank the night before. Last night, I slept really well, too well. In the Carpathians, breakfast consists of Now we hope we will reach the top. I mean in one piece. With the grace of God. In the middle of winter the poor state of the roads Many villages no longer dare to go out. Apart from the radio and television, is the postman. I have 8 more things to deliver. Besides the poor infrastructure the elderly can no longer afford a taxi My God, my God... Most of them live off their vegetable sent by their children. Dimitri is expected like a messiah. Hello, how are you? I'll bring you the mail. I only have a newspaper for you. You don't have a parcel? I have lived here for 40 years. I was a nursing assistant for a long time, Now I'm retired, my pension is very low, I get 60 dollars, that's not even And I worked many years, Dimitri does more than Is it the money? Yes, you'll have to write it down. I have my notebook in the car. It's a donation She's too weak to go, Here, here is 10 more. Helping people makes me feel better, The postman is also responsible at the end of each month, and for reading electricity meters. I'll pay you the electricity. Here you go. Is there a receipt with it? I'll take the bill and the money too. Everything is noted, it's all there. It's good that this corner is not soon everyone will leave here. Like in Sarata it will be the same in Percalabe. Little by little everything will disappear See you next time. When Dimitri retires during winter, the inhabitants of the villages As everyone knows, to take over from the old postman. In the swamps the tank of the Amber miners It still has enough strength After 3 hours at 15 kilometers per hours, the men finally arrive at the site. We pump the water out the ground Unlike other miners around the world, digging for amber is not really Attached to the end of a long pole that digs into the earth and then you just have to wait. The amber is well underground. Between 6 and 15 metres deep. The pressure of the water brings As it is very light, it floats. It's hard to believe Amber is an organic stone the resin of a pine tree Ukraine is said to have in the world after Russia. As nothing is really regulated here, 90% of its extraction is illegal. Entire forests are disappearing that resembles a war zone. They accuse us of destroying everything, Nature will take over. We have to feed our families. We make money where we can. In the region, the factories dating back have gradually closed down Unemployment is set in does not exceed $350. We've already got this. At $5,800 per kilograms many are tempted. We survive as best we can. All year round, the four men with the police. On this very day, one of their informants that the police are on their way. We've been ratted out, They can be violent. We're criminals. All our lives we will be chased But do we have a choice? This time, the amber thieves and escape well covered But as they ravage everything soon enough, In Ukraine, nature The Carpathian Forest, is being plundered by timber mafias Yuri and Miroslav try to help the animals in the most remote parts of the forest, Go! Go! Go on! Go on! The heavy truck sinks into the mud. Keep at it! Speed up! Put it in second gear Step on the gas! For the father and son After two days and six hours, they Here we are. We call this place &quot;the meadow&quot;. It's bit like home. It's the ideal location. Because it's close to their habitat. The deer will come and eat here, Feeding these animals It gives meaning to my life. The hay smells good. All the animals in the forest And they will come here Saving and feeding the animals has become a call of the wild They will come back in a month There is one other person But he, unlike Yuri and his father faces Nikola is stopped and when it's not the snow My car is too low. It's the engine of his old Moskvitch The fuel pump got too hot, It took him two days The power plant is located in the Carpathians. Only ten inhabitants and no shops. We don't exist here, We are far from everything. We're bored because Young people go to the city And because there is no work people are going abroad. The village is only two kilometers On the other side of its barbed wire A dreamland for many Ukrainians,