Narrator: This 200-pound mountain of dough will soon be hand-rolled just a small fraction made at this shop every week. Workers start the baking process at 3 a.m. and continue way past lunch hours. But according to owner Scott Spellman, the guarantee of a fresh, hot bagel is why Utopia Bagels stands out from the thousands of other Scott: I say it time and time again. You may have tried a bagel, you will not eat another bagel. Narrator: We visited Utopia's to see how it prepares its It all starts with a that uses barley malt. Scott: It's a really old-school Most stores that make bagels But to make a good-quality Narrator: Next, they add salt and a large scoop of Scott: So, what that does, and it crisps the crust outside. Narrator: Then they with New York City tap water. But it has to be at just Scott: We tend to use water that's around 60 degrees, 62, 63. But temperatures of the water may change when it's hotter and Narrator: Then it's time to add in 200 pounds of all-purpose flour, a small portion compared Scott: You're looking at Almost a two-day amount for us that we'll go through all this flour. And this is actually just Narrator: The final ingredient is yeast. But for flavored bagels, the recipe may change slightly or freeze-dried blueberries, There is no set time for when According to Scott, it takes a keen eye and years of experience. Scott: It's a thing called How long have you been making bagels? 18 years. Scott: 18 years. Daniel's It takes understanding the It takes understanding his how long it should mix. All these things are about what happens with our bagel. Narrator: Once the dough it's cut into sections and transferred over to the rolling table, where it's then formed Scott: We can make up to And this'll make Narrator: They cover the entire to help soften the dough before rolling. Scott: And it's only about that allows that dough to connect a little better with each other. They're saying, &quot;Hello, how are you?&quot; All those ingredients are Narrator: At any given point, there are four expert rollers on hand. These skilled men have between perfecting their craft -- something Scott says is a &quot;dying breed.&quot; Scott: There's not a out there right now. And these people are Listen, I think Derek Jeter said it best. If you put 10,000 hours into something, you're a professional. And Daniel has definitely Narrator: It takes an for these hand-rollers roll, and twist about 1,000 bagels. Scott: It takes a certain because it's very tedious. You're cutting the same And I can tell who is rolling what bagel by the way they lock their Daniel has that little lip here that I noticed about Daniel's rolling. Then I can see, those And it gives each bagel Our bagels are like snowflakes. Every one is individually different, and that's what makes it special. Narrator: Once the bagels are rolled, they're placed on these racks, covered with plastic, and They then move into one of for at least 24 hours. Scott: What we're gonna do 'cause we still have to reduce the heat to stop the rising of these bagels. We tend to stop the proofing, where a lot of places tend so their bagels are bigger. There's a misconception that And they're not, by far. As you see, each rack has So you're looking at 10,000, 15,000 bagels right before your eyes. And this is only one of my Here's my second fridge. Again, you have racks of bagels. One, two, three, four. We have close to 7,000, 8,000 more bagels. So this is basically where we'll keep our everyday making of the bagels. Now it's time for fun and games. We're going to start baking some bagels. We'll always have two So there's a kettleman, So he'll control the flow of And then there's the guy on the oven that'll be his director. But the kettle is the because he knows when that bagel's ready to come out of that kettle. It's so important. Narrator: Once the bagels they're scooped over to boards with the appropriate flavors, or the very popular everything mix. Scott: Now, are these hot? But if you watch me, I'm in water to remove some of that heat. Now, this again is where So we're seasoning both Narrator: After workers they move the boards into the oven. Scott: Now, why we're because if we put these they would stick to the slate We put six bagels on a board. There's 16 boards And we have a Middleby It is the heart and soul of my business. We're able to produce up to Narrator: After a few the boards are flipped so the bottom of the Then they're ready to be Scott: See, these are so, look Look at that beautiful crisp crust. My son always does the knock test. Feel that crisp crust. Look at that steam Narrator: In total, Utopia and various sandwiches, like or the classic lox. 43 staff members make up Utopia Bagels, and they all work like to serve the 3,500 customers Scott: We're busiest on the We could have a line lasting for eight hours straight. But you get me crying about my customers, 'cause our fan base is like none other. It's like a landmark. Everybody's been coming It's like a home place for everybody. It's the atmosphere, it's Everybody's so nice here. And when you come in, you feel welcomed. Everything is good. I've been but there's no place like home. Scott treats you like Utopia Bagels is the best. Scott: The most important is right here. And I get emotional about it, Every worker here has heart and soul. It truly is something I live for and something we work at. My passion for making people smile with our food and what we produce is a joy for me. It really is. Oh, yeah, those are the Look at those colors.