This video is going to look and sound a little topic is serious, complex, and infuriating. It's also incredibly long, as you've probably the full picture. As we're going through this story, I want back of your mind - When was the last slave 1865, at the end of the Civil War. Everyone knows that, that's probably the I could possibly think of. Well... Well, okay, if you want to get technical about was a few months after the war ended. Eh... Is this some kind of trick question where like shift work is actually a continuation No [sighs], traditional chattel slavery. [Snaps fingers] Juneteenth, final answer. [Exasperated sigh] ...Still wrong. Is this going to be another hour-long Knowing ended a century ago actually didn't? [Click of old TV turning on] [Intro music] This video was brought to you by CuriosityStream You're telling me they invented a picture on it? Will you get back in the closet, man? This really isn't a topic for light-hearted You're talking about the Civil War and you We're actually going to be talking about But that's irrelevant, nobody cares about And besides, if I use you, everyone's just Checkmate, Lincolnites... You're right. [Door slam] I'm an American... always have been. I went through elementary, middle, and high a Social Studies teacher, and then, I taught middle and high school level. Am I giving you my credentials in order to No, quite the opposite actually. I was taught what I'm going to be calling Throughout all my years of education, including between the 1990s and the 2010s. And then I taught that same myth to the next Since I'm going to be spending the rest at least some of my audience isn't American, all on the same page. As you can see, I have a brand new... ish I want. Now, I found this video from an online university and therefore believe about American history... [TV static] America was founded when a group of Protestant in Europe, made the harrowing journey across Rock. These Pilgrims had a feast with the Indians the holiday of Thanksgiving. Over the next few decades, several other British and in 1776 they all declared their independence representation. After the Revolutionary War had been won, a freedom-loving liberty document which guaranteed There's one glaring hypocrisy with that existed in America. How could the founding fathers believe in Well, many of them knew that this peculiar that the practice would naturally die out a clause in the Constitution saying that the None of the founding fathers could have predicted slavery much more profitable and all but guaranteed Throughout the 1800s, abolitionists like Frederick 1860, Abraham Lincoln was elected on that In order to protect their rights as states Southern states decided to break away from as the Confederacy. From 1861 to 1865, America fought the bloodiest was preserved, and 4 million black people It's a common misconception that Abraham Lincoln only applied to areas in active rebellion, There was no way to enforce that without invading so this didn't really do much. In reality, it wasn't the Great Emancipator, after his assassination, that abolished slavery. Reconstruction lasted from 1865 to 1877 and federal troops were stationed in the South slaves. After Reconstruction ended though, things Within a decade, Black Codes had been passed literacy tests and poll taxes to vote. This is the beginning of Jim Crow, an era of the bus and drink out of separate water for white kids and black kids. That lasted until 1954 when the Supreme Court the Brown v. Board of Education decision. This began the Civil Rights movement, which who said we should judge each other not by of our character. With the passage of the Civil Rights Act of and America had finally swept away the last We even elected a black man as president - twice. So, the next time someone tells you that America hopefully now, you'll know better. I'm Knowless Better, author of "You Learned in Elementary School" for Better University. Thank you for watching, to help keep Knowing page at patr- I don't apologize for that, nor do you actually You're probably familiar with most of what out a small inaccuracy here or there, but learned as a kid and the one you likely still I know that because that was the story I was others almost two decades later. It's also the story fake Youtube universities Yes, that was a PragerU parody, just about their videos. And they're usually pushing the message and scary. I was spared the life sapping, negative messages of young people. These ideas are poison. As a Social Studies teacher, I can assure America is a racist country or was founded And they're certainly not learning Critical Because if you stray from that standard story, by the afternoon and you'll be talking to Before you assume anything, that did not happen history the entire time I worked in a classroom. And honestly, for years afterward. But that general story, the standard myth ended after the Civil War, and segregation really explain the current state of racial than answers. I mean, if black people have been free for Why haven't they "caught up yet?" You can come at this from multiple different Why do they perform worse in school? Why do they make less money? Why are they convicted of more crimes? Why aren't they elected to office at a rate you're never given an answer to these questions. You're left to make it up on your own; if just can't seem to do well, there must be group of people specifically that prevents Most Americans are never taught that maybe But even more than that, they never learn - that slavery ended 150 years ago - is I'm not talking about the prison industrial about ball-and-chain chattel slavery. If the Standard American History Myth that When was the last slave freed in America? [Intro music... again] I don't know why it did that. Before we can get to your first guess, the the political and societal situation leading Firstly, America was not founded by the Pilgrims, persecution, but clearing up that specific Jamestown, Virginia was the first permanent If you watched my Company Towns video, you're It was a tobacco plantation that began to in 1619. This is why the 1619 Project marks this as of is. The Mayflower didn't happen until 1620, a new country and the Thanksgiving part didn't again, another time. For decades, the various colonies in America There were free white people, a few free black servants, and slaves who were either black That lasted until Bacon's Rebellion in 1676, the ruling class, because they wanted to expand This was a hundred years before independence, that existed in Britain, and in response to keep the rabble in line was to divide and In the years that followed, Virginia passed black people of any rights. By 1705, there were basically no free or indentured considered citizens; they couldn't own property, This will be a recurring theme going forward, people into an underclass. Over the next two centuries, the rich white the founding fathers, relied on slave labor And at this point, slavery was still legal In 1769, Charles Stewart traveled with his to England; they lived there for a few years In 1772, his case was heard by Lord Mansfield, determined: it is incapable of being introduced on any law. ... It is so odious, that nothing can be suffered Whatever inconveniences, therefore, may follow is allowed or approved by the law of England; Basically, what he just said is that slavery if there is a law specifically stating it law. There was no such law in England, therefore It's unclear who came up with this famous was so pure that if an enslaved person were free. This decision popularized the abolition and existed for some time. You know the next part, there's some spilled and eventually recognition of our independence. A few years after that, the founding fathers There were fifty-five delegates, so there among the noteworthy, there were abolitionists Jefferson. As a result, the issue of slavery appears actually using the word "slavery." Article I, Section 2, Clause 3 states... Representatives and direct Taxes shall be may be included within this Union, according determined by adding to the whole Number of for a Term of Years, and excluding Indians This is the Three-Fifths Compromise, which Two things to note here, first, it doesn't of a person, it just says that three-fifths is basically the same thing but worded slightly Secondly, indentured servants still counted and other persons who are not. It wasn't the racists of the South who wanted populations - it was the abolitionists in Not sure why it keeps cutting to stuff, these Anyway, she is right about that, but why? The Three-Fifths Compromise was a way for in Congress and the Electoral College; if all of the people that they themselves did That way, they could artificially inflate The North would've preferred to count none they don't have any rights... who exactly The second clause of the Constitution dealing 1. The Migration or Importation of such Persons proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or duty ten dollars for each Person. I have misunderstood and taught this clause Children, our founding fathers knew that slavery would do terrible harm to the nation. Our founders created a system they thought Oh god, was that like, a kids' video? Nope, we're not doing this, no more TV. [Plug pulling from socket] that slavery was evil and wrong, some of them the various compromises we're learning about They did not create a system that would have This clause of the Constitution does not ban read it; it basically says, "Congress shall 1808." Which is exactly what happened, they banned But the point is, the institution and expansion for the first twenty years of its existence. The founding fathers did not plan for it to out. The final mention of sl- ... I'm actually doing this... We'll just deal with the random clips, I The final mention of slavery can be found No Person held to Service or Labour in one another, shall, in Consequence of any Law such Service or Labour, but shall be delivered or Labour may be due. This is the Fugitive Slave Clause, which states state, the slaveowner can still hunt them Unlike in Britain, in America, breathing free I just want to point out that the Constitution to the Somerset case, stating that those circumstances It's also important to remember that America in other countries too. One such country was Haiti, a French colony grow its sugar industry until the slaves decided They fought for twelve years and gained their After this successful slave revolt, two things no matter what, Haiti would be perpetually read anymore. If they found out about Haiti, they might Which is exactly what Nat Turner did in Virginia While some states, like South Carolina, banned southern states didn't enact similar laws movement was really gaining steam. As a result, we have very few first-hand accounts - most of their stories are lost to history. Britain abolished slavery in its overseas play alternate history and wonder if that failed, there's no way to know for sure. But this did include Canada, which meant that destination. When Frederick Douglass escaped to New York Fugitive Slave Clause and could be legally Rather than continue on to Canada, he decided abolitionists. So, you're trying to work for change inside Precisely Layla, our system is wonderful, document. Oh no, I forgot we were on the kids' one. This is PragerU portraying Frederick Douglass within the system to get slavery abolished. Which immediately falls apart when you remember I can't take any more of the kids' one, The movement's leader, William Lloyd Garrison, speeches. In Garrison's view, it legally protected But Douglass came to reject that. He believed that the Constitution was fundamentally Interpreted as it ought to be interpreted, liberty document. There's that line again, glorious liberty Personally, I find William Lloyd Garrison's considering those three clauses we just went But that line actually comes from a speech Slave is the Fourth of July? What, to the American slave, is your 4th of I answer: a day that reveals to him, more injustice and cruelty to which he is the constant To him, your celebration is a sham; your boasted greatness, swelling vanity; your sounds of of tyrants, brass fronted impudence; your your prayers and hymns, your sermons and thanksgivings, are, to him, mere bombast, fraud, deception, cover up crimes which would disgrace a nation There is not a nation on the earth guilty are the people of these United States, at [Machine whirrs as it pauses] whirrs] not the line I was looking for... In that instrument I hold there is neither thing; but, interpreted as it ought to be liberty document. Read its preamble, consider its purposes. Is slavery among them? Let me ask... If the Constitution were intended to be, by instrument, why neither slavery, slaveholding, I mean... just because it doesn't use the He's basically making the Somerset argument, positive law allowing for the institution But it did, so... Look, I'm just a former high school teacher What did the Supreme Court have to say on They're the ones who are supposed to interpret original intent. Throughout the 1840s and 50s, Dred Scott sued He stated that since he had been brought to free; again, referencing the Somerset case. The lower courts went back and forth on the in 1857. I want you to stop for a moment and remember how was the decision framed to you? Did they decide that he was free or that he Here's the actual opinion from Chief Justice In the opinion of the Court the legislation used in the Declaration of Independence, show been imported as slaves nor their descendants, then acknowledged as a part of the people words used in that memorable instrument. They had for more than a century before been altogether unfit to associate with the white and so far inferior that they had no rights and that the Negro might justly and lawfully And upon a full and careful consideration upon the facts stated in the plea in abatement, the meaning of the Constitution of the United its courts. So again, was Dred Scott a free man or a slave? The answer was neither, he's not a citizen, Black people had no rights to which the white of Independence was not referring to them, They are not, have never been, and will never This was the highest court in the land saying never meant to include black people and it's the time. In effect, this was the government telling not a glorious liberty document - at least Just a few years earlier, they passed the catchers come get you if you were in the North, knew you were a runaway. This forced people in the North, including trade under pain of prosecution. Around this time, we began to see a shift of them were still in agriculture, usually began experimenting with slave labor. In 1850, the Bibb Steam Mill Company, a sawmill from surrounding farms. This is important, because this is the beginning people, rather than just some rich guy on Railroads soon got into the mix and by the owned about 20,000 slaves. So alright, the Civil War, which began after states were worried that he was going to possibly from expanding west. It's a real bummer that I have to take time Our new government is founded upon exactly its corner-stone rests, upon the great truth that slavery subordination to the superior This, our new government, is the first, in great physical, philosophical, and moral truth. That was the Vice President of the Confederacy be founded on the idea that black people are And I mean, arguably not, right? Like, the United States was [TV static]. Anyway, the point is, whether they were first to defend the institution of slavery and every as they left. At first, Abraham Lincoln had no real intention preserving the Union. My paramount object in this struggle is to or to destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing it by freeing all the slaves I would do it; leaving others alone, I would also do that. Now, don't get it twisted, Abraham Lincoln the United States united was more important But for the Confederacy, this war was entirely The evidence is so clear and overwhelming argue otherwise... Here, I'll prove it to you. The evidence is clear and overwhelming. Slavery was, by a wide margin, the single Did you think you'd ever actually agree When the various southern states seceded, were confiscated and transferred into southern those mills and furnaces with slave labor. Since all the white men were off fighting, the use of Industrial Slavery. As soon as the war began, forty slaves were State Iron and Coal Company put an ad in a 100 able-bodied hands." Within a few years, the Shelby Iron Works And to cap it all off, in 1863, the Confederate in Alabama, which included nine black men Just to reiterate that, that's the Confederate Within a few months of the outbreak of the of 1861, stating that any escaped slaves who captured enemy property or "contraband of While still not viewing them as people, this Act. As the war began to turn in the North's slavery, but didn't think that the United society. So, he proposed re-colonizing the former slaves If that sounds familiar, it's because this to do with Liberia, this was just a new take This is where Frederick Douglass has the most He convinced Lincoln out of the recolonization which as stated earlier, wasn't really enforceable anyone. But it did allow the Union army to enlist Douglass thought that if the United States there was no way they could deny their citizenship Two of his sons ended up enlisting in the Upon hearing about the Emancipation Proclamation, issued his own counter-proclamation. Saying that any black soldiers they capture in practice, executed. The Emancipation Proclamation went into effect gave the Gettysburg Address eleven months So many people had died that Lincoln began worth the human cost. But if he could reframe this war as the fight being held in chains... suddenly the death The North was already starting to win at this purpose. Imagine going from putting down a rebellion care about to ending slavery. In terms of righteous causes, that's even In January 1865, when the Thirteenth Amendment Sherman issued Special Field Order 15. This divided up 400,000 acres of abandoned to the freedmen, which is what we were calling According to the order, each family was to year, over 40,000 parcels of land had been This is reparations, we actually did reparations... In March 1865, the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, commonly known as the Freedmen's Bureau. Their primary job was to protect the rights their 40 acres. The Civil War ended on April 9th and when who fought for the Union should get the vote, As a result, on April 14, 1865, Andrew Johnson He was a southern Democrat who remained loyal him as VP as a sign of his willingness to Johnson also happened to be a raging white This is a country for white men, and by God, for white men. Fuuuuu.... [Static] Within six months of his inauguration, all of the 40-acre plots that had been distributed Put another way, he confiscated the land and This was the beginning of Presidential Reconstruction, restoration of the Union with as few changes Once the Thirteenth Amendment was ratified, Just to recap the timeline here, the war ended surrendered on June Nineteenth, and the Thirteenth year. What do you think happened after that? The freedmen just walked off into the sunset, Obviously not, right? The South still needed to harvest crops and just go free and do whatever. Many of the freedmen ended up working on the slaves. The planter class had them sign labor contracts they agreed to be locked in a cell or chained commands, speak in a servile manner, and accept Why would anyone sign these? Because black literacy had been illegal for By the end of the next year, most of these Union commanders because it was obvious that It was clear to Congress at least, that much The Civil Rights Act of 1866 declared all citizens, regardless of race or previous condition Johnson vetoed the bill and for the first and push it through anyway. If the wording of that act sounds familiar, by the Fourteenth Amendment, which didn't Andrew Johnson denounced the amendment as The Reconstruction Act of 1867 ended Johnson's the former Confederate states were divided by a general who enforced the law. It also required new southern governments As you probably guessed, Andrew Johnson also by Congress and as a result, 38,000 federal whom were black. And as a further result of this law, the Ku more active. The KKK was formed on Christmas Eve, 1865, Confederate government established militias looking for deserters and runaway slaves. When the war ended, these Home Guards began eventually turned to terrorism; entire families The only way the former slaves were going was with the presence of tens of thousands During the election of 1868, they stood guard With the end of the Three-Fifths Compromise, to dramatically increase, so they were required Even though black people still couldn't Fifteenth Amendment wouldn't be ratified Federal troops, stationed in the South, helped Hundreds of black men were elected to southern Republicans served in the US Congress by 1900. I want you to remember that she stopped counting is right. In 1870, 1500 black politicians began serving them were Republicans, because it was the Hiram Revels was the first black US Senator, or not. That same year, the federal government declared after a riot in South Carolina, President habeas corpus for any suspected members. This completely destroyed the Ku Klux Klan them back, but we'll get to that. The presidential election of 1876 split the all too familiar with these days. As a result, we ended up with the Compromise Southern Democrats, who now held a majority B Hayes as President in return for the removal Have you noticed that all of our compromises This was the definitive end of Reconstruction, Bureau around, white supremacist violence But more importantly, southern governments Immediately after the Civil War and throughout what would later become known as Black Codes But... can you actually describe a Black Code? My guess is, you probably have this confused allowed in certain public spaces, interracial Or maybe you think this restricted voting With measures like Black Codes, laws that and run businesses. And they imposed poll taxes and literacy tests vote. Most of that stuff doesn't come along until These were a set of laws written in a colorblind in practice, they were only ever illegal for Which is probably why we don't really learn This is somewhat uncomfortable to talk about it says murder is illegal, it's illegal But we're not talking about violence or The Black Codes were basically, made-up social The most important and egregious one was vagrancy, defined as when "a laborer or servant loiters Do you see why so many of the recently freed owners? Many states imposed fines on or made it illegal than agriculture or domestic service. So, congratulations, you're free to do whatever were already doing as a slave. It was also against the law to quit your job as fraud or "false pretenses" as they As a white person, you couldn't hire a freedman previous employer. This meant that as a black person in the South, for you as your employer - or at the very If you didn't have that protection, you Since the road system in the South wasn't place to another, the easiest way was to hop a ticket. The second easiest way was to walk alongside Gambling, drinking, and even carrying a concealed that could include anything from a gun to Using obscene or offensive language or talking was illegal. Remember this? I'm going to tell them there's an African-American This has been going on for over 150 years. White women have always held a special power Interracial sexual relations were illegal, woman, and even then, only the black man was They prosecuted that under miscegenation or Many states also passed what were called Pig crime to the level of a felony - stealing prison. The theft of an eight-cent fence post was And now we're getting to the point, because began to use the Black Codes to transition You probably think I'm talking about chain later. Before the Civil War, the judicial system If a black person committed a crime, I'm as your dog committing a crime. They were chattel property, so punishment Even after the war, prisons were few and far with jail time, most of the Black Codes just So, these laws weren't designed to put black put them to work. The first system I want to talk about is Convict all learn about eventually - usually by Which, while being a good example, is also To truly understand how this scheme played ideas of how the criminal justice system is At this point in history, police departments cities. Do you know what a notary public is? They're someone entrusted by the government find them in banks, post offices, grocery might even be a notary public. Well, back in the day, Justices of the Peace tailors, and even plantation owners who adjudicated Which was most crime at this point, it was get involved. County law enforcement was handled by an elected role, the actual work was done by appointed and again, plantation owners. Can you figure out what's about to happen A sheriff's deputy, a bounty hunter, or seize a black man walking along a railroad of the peace-slash-tavern owner. The justice would invariably find him guilty They would impose a fine or sentence them government to sell the convict to the highest In 1866, both Alabama and Texas leased hundreds Within a few years, Mississippi convicts were had sent theirs across the border and into By the time Reconstruction ended, every southern They didn't really generate much revenue a benefit because it saved them from having The main purpose of convict leasing was to labor force. Birmingham, Alabama was founded in 1871 as its origins trace back to when the Confederacy slaves in the various coal mines. This is a natural continuation of the Industrial After the war ended, companies like Tennessee slaves from nearby farms to leasing convicts On March 30, 1908, Green Cottenham was arrested When no evidence or witnesses could be produced him guilty of vagrancy. He was sentenced to three months of hard labor, the court fees. Shelby County, Alabama then leased him to which put him to work on Slope #12 of the They paid the county twelve dollars a month months into his sentence. Tennessee Coal, Iron, and Rail entered into State of Alabama in 1888, paying anywhere By 1900, there would be over a thousand convicts which were white. It's easy not to care about these people If you don't want to do hard labor, maybe But it's worth asking what these people In 1890, Alabama conducted a survey of all Among the felonies, there were eleven for job or breaking a labor contract, seven for interracial sexual relations, four for homosexuality, Among the misdemeanors, there were ninety-four concealed weapon, twenty-four for false pretense, for gambling, thirteen for selling whiskey, come back to that, seven for vagrancy, five three for bastardry, and two for selling cotton "Selling cotton after sunset?" I thought this was America, how could the exchange of goods and services? Because it didn't, "after sunset" was it with the phrase "for black people." This is how Sundown Towns worked, because stating that black people weren't welcome, after sunset. These sunset laws are still on the books in of "the weirdest laws from every state." It really changes your perspective when you carrying a razor in your pocket, walking along I've literally done all of those things them. You probably noticed while going over that people were being sentenced to hard labor John Clarke was convicted of gaming on April The usual punishment would have been ten days that was extended to one hundred and fourteen He died after thirty-four days when he was I don't know about you, but I don't think should be hard manual labor until death. The Coalburg Mine alone had an annual convict But as bad as that sounds, convict leasing rented out their prisoners to any farmer or Which, thanks to this new system, was basically Slaves used to cost hundreds, even thousands the richest plantation owners could participate But leasing a convict only cost a few bucks And unlike the old days, there was no incentive healthy, you could literally just work them This isn't just my enlightened historical the same opinion over a hundred years ago. (This) system is more cruel and inhuman than the master conserved the life and health of did that of his horse or mule, but now the with the sole object of getting the greatest Moreover a (convict) costs but a few dollars Here's where I need to introduce another important a person compels a laborer to work or holds I know that a lot of you are immediately going and I'm not. Just briefly, sharecropping was when a landlord their property in exchange for a share of While sharecroppers often fell into debt, technically free - and mostly white. Debt Peonage is when you owe me ten dollars pay it off. This is the same basic idea behind convict so you work it off with hard labor. But let's say you owe a fine and you can't mines, but you're in luck, the sheriff's owner. He's willing to pay your fine for you as on his farm. You sign a labor contract for nine months, be locked up at night and pay for your own Keep in mind that since your debt to the state a criminal anymore. You're just a laborer who has agreed to clothing, housing, and medicine you're being your time. At this rate, it's going to take you years So, alright, let's say you'd rather avoid do anything wrong, they can't prove anything. Good luck with that. You have no right to an attorney, that doesn't you stand accused by a white sheriff's deputy authority to declare you guilty. It is a foregone conclusion that you will Even more than that, the longer the trial the higher the fine will be when you lose Which is why, by the 1880s, the obscure legal popular. This is when you plead guilty to a lesser fighting it and going to trial would make Nowadays we call this plea bargaining, but Remember those eight people who were convicted Mines? This is what happened to them! They just plead guilty, the court didn't it didn't matter. In 1898, the largest criminal category for In September 1901, John Davis was arrested proven, he was judged guilty of "obtaining to pay a fine of $75. A man named John W Pace paid his fine for After twelve months on Pace's plantation, it's unclear how long he was held there. John Davis was arrested by a man named Robert named James Kennedy - both of whom were In May 1903, the Department of Justice announced and John Davis would eventually testify at Here's how the federal prosecutor in the his own words. [Old timey static begins] on the part of wealthy and influential men. These violations have not been confined to but it has developed into a miserable business negro men and women upon the flimsiest and a justice of the peace who is usually a paid The victim is found guilty and a fine is assessed the victim, and then it is that one of these friend of the negro, telling him he will pay for him on his farm... the negro readily agrees he will have to do, his fine is paid, the to the farm or mine or mill or quarry of the Placed into a condition of involuntary servitude, under guards during the day from 3 o'clock whipped in a most cruel manner, is insufficiently in nearly all of the cases investigated reveals while the women are worked in an equally disgraceful Brutal things have transpired and sometimes corporal punishment. If they run away the dogs are placed upon and subjected to more cruel treatment. When the time of a good working negro is nearing up charge and again carried before some bribed In this way negroes have been known to have years and years. They can get no word to friends nor is word They are held in abject slavery without any The indictments so far found are based upon been the subjects of these violations. These are some of the most severe instances, of other cases. I know what you're thinking, "Oh, well, it was only a few Nope! In the years after the Civil War, over 800,000 This was one indictment in one county in one During this same period there were similar basically everywhere. To put that in perspective, we freed four a fifth of them as convicts and debt peons. And before you go thinking that these cases of this video - when was the last slave If you hadn't noticed, you still don't John W Pace and his co-conspirators were charged which was passed in 1867 to abolish the serf-like Territory. When we acquired all of that land from Mexico, the people living there. So, we got rid of the peonage system and then there during the various Homestead Acts. Which were kind of like reparations... but really making up for anything, it was just Anyway, Pace and his friends' actual defense them were fictitious, this wasn't peonage illegal. And they were right! Their charges were dismissed or they got off Most of the other cases around the country it or not, slavery was not a crime! The Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution except as a punishment for crime blah blah, place subject to their jurisdiction." You know what it doesn't say? Anyone caught engaging in slavery is guilty blah blah. It abolished slavery as a legal concept, but the practice anyway. It does include a section that says, "Congress appropriate legislation." But Congress never got around to doing that! John W Pace renewed his leasing contract with on his property less than a year later and As a result, this neoslavery - disguised for decades. If you're not seething with anger right and ask yourself why that is. [Calming breath] the coal mines and cotton plantations of Alabama. Convict debt peons were cutting sugar cane and working at the infamous Chattahoochee Where they liked to use child convicts because kilns. After public hearings on corruption and conditions Georgia decided to abolish their program in Martin Tabert was arrested for vagrancy in He was found guilty and was imposed a fine but by the time it arrived, he had already on a three-month contract. Shortly afterwards, he was whipped over a wounds. Normally, this wouldn't change anything, the South, but... Martin Tabert was a rich, white kid from North He was a 22-year-old on a cross-country backpacking His family pressed charges and the resulting that Florida ended its convict leasing system Alabama didn't end their program until 1928, In that final year, the state had over 37,000 and plantations. 12,500 of which were sentenced alcohol, because at this point, Prohibition 2,735 were in for vagrancy, 2,014 for gaming, and 154 for adultery and miscegenation. Once a state ended its convict leasing program, state projects like roads and highways. These are the chain gangs you're familiar Meanwhile, county convict leasing systems which is just slavery with extra steps, continued You've seen the length of this video, you While every US History teacher will correctly it took a few years for the reforms of that US v Cruikshank and the Slaughterhouse Cases Without the presence of Union troops and without state governments quickly stripped freedmen them from mob violence. For almost a century after the Civil War, In 1883, the Supreme Court ruled that the racial discrimination in public accommodations Here is the majority opinion from that case. When a man has emerged from slavery, and by off the inseparable concomitants of that state, his elevation when he takes the rank of a favorite of the laws, and when his rights in the ordinary modes by which other men's Less than 20 years after the Civil War and slavery ended forever ago" argument. This decision allowed segregation at the state In 1892, Homer Plessy boarded a train and of being arrested and challenging Louisiana's Plessy was only one-eighth black, that's And that was enough to put him in the colored As you're probably aware, in 1896 the Supreme approval for segregation to become the norm Even the North was on board with segregation You see, before the Civil War, the racial - it had been ordained by God. Have you ever wondered why there's a Southern Because in 1845, they broke away from the and the teaching that God stained their skin Southern ministers told the slaves that theirs the pigs. In 1859, Darwin came out with his book On long for amateur scientists to start measuring care to guess which one they chose? This was the beginning of the eugenics movement that all these things were happening at the And during the 1870s, the Indian Wars were of literary fiction which told fantastic tales Manifest Destiny provided Americans with an And then, to top it all off, northerners were an apparent crime wave following the abolition This was a result of the Black Codes, which were presented as violent criminals. If you were to ask a white northerner to describe War, they would've used words like loyal, While still servile in nature, I hope we can By the 1890s, when convict leasing and debt threat, uncivilized, demonic, a lascivious This is it. If you learn nothing else from this video, Southern whites used laws like vagrancy, trespassing, that black people were incapable of living This is where the myth of black criminality War on Drugs. If that doesn't piss you off, I want you flip it to selfie mode, and then ask yourself My guess is it's because none of the history applied to you. Given all of that, is it really that much was released in 1915, everyone, North and This was the first feature-length American blockbuster. In the film, the abolition of slavery is depicted men on our unsuspecting, innocent white women. The KKK are the heroes, swooping in to save This confirmed the story that white people Confederacy into a tale of martyrdom. This rewrite of American history is known today. This movie is also directly responsible for terrorizing black families by burning crosses The original KKK didn't do that, that was wouldn't believe what brought them back. Frederick Douglass died in 1895, which meant now Booker T Washington, who pushed a more He urged black people to accommodate white their skills. He told them to learn a trade to hold the up North; don't worry, white people will Needless to say, this message was praised By 1901, they had gradually disenfranchised laws and writing new state constitutions. They obviously couldn't ban an entire race Instead, they instituted poll taxes and literacy all know about these, even PragerU mentions But just like the Black Codes, you probably them. Let's start with the literacy tests, nearly and write if you wanted to vote. Which sounds reasonable on the surface, right? Here's an actual literacy test from the It starts off with some fairly straight forward or letter of this sentence. Cross out the longest word, circle the first, Simple. But then you get to number ten, In the first first word beginning with L. What? Number twelve, draw a line from circle two two and above circle four. Oh c'mon. This is only the first page, there are thirty failure of this test. Now be honest, is that what you thought a in school? Because I'm willing to bet this was never These tests were arbitrarily given out to education and the questions were just vague wrong. Many states also put up financial barriers Mississippi required a poll tax of three dollars, money - would you vote if it cost you that I doubt it. Virginia's was only one dollar, but you three years before you could vote. Louisiana required you to own at least $300 anyone who could vote on January 1, 1867, This is the origin of the phrase Grandfather This loophole was intended to let poor white literacy or financial requirements, as long Virtually no black people were voting in the qualify. Disenfranchisement has several knock-on effects - it's a lot more than just your ability You'll also find it near impossible to run This obviously meant there were no black representatives the nice PragerU lady stopped counting them But this also affected local office, there of the peace. Not being registered to vote also means that black defendants were almost always tried By the time Birth of a Nation and Woodrow almost entirely pushed out of government. Confederate statues were being put up in the taken over the historical narrative. Race riots occurred in places like Springfield, Tulsa, Oklahoma. Lynching had become so popular that children and newspapers advertised the event days beforehand. People took selfies with the deceased and The violence around the country got so bad The Negro Motorist Green-Book. A travel guide with a list of hotels, gas to black people in every city. They were working on a fictional version of - this was based on a real thing. These were printed all the way through the Think about what that means for a moment. This country was so hostile to black people their own separate travel guide where every Because if you went into the wrong town, you [Clapping] Mister Vice President, Mister Speaker, Yesterday... December 7, 1941... If you're wondering what FDR has to do with the primary question of this video... again. After giving that speech, President Roosevelt to use against the United States in the coming The answer was the treatment of the negro. In addition to disenfranchisement and segregation, still holding thousands of people in bondage. A man named Charles Bledsoe plead guilty to just two months before Pearl Harbor. America could hardly claim the moral high the Chinese or Koreans when we had our own So, on December 12, 1941, FDR's Justice A summary of the Department files on alleged of &quot;prosecution declined&quot; by United States the absence of the element of debt. In the matter of control by one over the person each person is placed must be determined, to the other. Open force, threats or intimidation need not from one place to another to work and to remain show an absence of involuntary servitude. In the United States one cannot sell himself established to protect the weak-minded, the Men will sometimes sell themselves for a meal as surety on his bond to work out the amount Any such contract is positively null and void to be made violates (the law). To assure emphasis on the issue of involuntary cases... the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been from &quot;Peonage&quot; to read &quot;Involuntary Servitude This memo told prosecutors to stop trying Statute, because so many people were using That since the debt wasn't real, this wasn't a crime. They were told to stop calling it peonage The memo provided them with a list of other aggressively prosecute these crimes as part Over the next few months, dozens of cases In September 1942, on a farm outside of Beeville, last chattel slave to be freed in America. Not indentured servant, or convict laborer, Here's a news article from the time saying The Skrobarcek family held him as a slave and beat him with chains, whips, and ropes The family was found guilty and sentenced The Corpus Christi Times said the "trial in the future to have given a decisive setback a way, by bombing Pearl Harbor, the Japanese When people notice the obvious inequality haven't "caught up" yet, despite slavery They're wrong, it ended eighty years ago. When was the last slave freed in America? It wasn't after the Civil War, it was during Our current president, Joe Biden, was born Until he graduated from college, black people - segregation didn't end until the Civil Jim Crow ended with the Voting Rights Act again. But just a few years after that, Nixon came and imprisoned even more black people... on My police militarization video goes into this me... The Nixon campaign in 1968, and the Nixon antiwar left and black people. You understand what I'm saying? We knew we couldn't make it illegal to be the public to associate the hippies with marijuana both heavily, we could disrupt those communities. We could arrest their leaders, raid their them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course we did. Why haven't we done reparations? We clearly owe them. And by we, I don't mean white people, I Since the colonial days, the laws of this into a permanent underclass. For the first hundred years after independence, slavery. And immediately after it was abolished, the to extract as much labor and wealth out of Either directly, by sentencing them to hard Or indirectly, by issuing an exorbitant fine who held that debt over them while simultaneously off. If they tried to leave, they'd be arrested more hard labor. This blatantly unjust system created generations and have learned not to expect help from the They don't trust the police and have lost And who can blame them? For almost a hundred years, the primary purpose people into meeting the labor demands and This created a century-old myth about black The government of the United States did that, ago and they arguably continue to do it with Joe Biden was instrumental in introducing in the Senate. We went from the Slave Codes and chattel slavery convict leasing and debt peonage, to the War It's basically a continuum of oppression This version of history, otherwise known as about the current state of racial inequality History Myth we were all taught. Have you noticed that I haven't shown you Because this part of the story is almost always the revolution, the Civil War... and that's You'll eventually learn about segregation Also in our time, all Americans are equally rights, regardless of race. We even had a black president, two terms! Today, America is the most successful multi-racial The only white-majority country to elect a PragerU is basically presenting the same version and high school. The only difference is that their target audience parents. They're pushing for school choice, so they're kids are learning Critical Race Theory or But I can assure you, no child is learning this video. There are history and Social Studies teachers about debt peonage before - I know I hadn't Finally learning about this stuff has given I was taught the Standard American History of the Lost Cause, and then I helped spread As an educator, there is nothing worse than if it's only a lie by omission. The full story makes so much more sense that then, we might actually demand some changes. Which is exactly why PragerU keeps telling History is the only subject where they repeatedly then you might feel bad about being white You learned everything you need to know about I don't feel any guilt for being white, tale version of American history for so long... at least now, I know better and so do you. Now that you know all of this, it's time you can do over at curiositystream.com/knowingbetter. CuriosityStream is a subscription streaming and non-fiction titles that you can access Are You Racist? Find out by watching the show Are You Racist? Which ran multiple subjects through a battery prejudices against certain other people. Do you think some people are just genetically This documentary is for you. Check it out by heading over to curiositystream.com/knowingbetter, streaming service built by fellow youtubers All of my content is hosted over there ad-free content that can only be seen on Nebula. Sign up today by heading over to curiositystream.com/knowingbetter, and Nebula for only $14.79 a year. You'll also be supporting the channel when I'm not going to apologize for the length because you've come to expect that by now. I'd like to give a shout out to my newest If you'd like to add your name to this list or, for a one-time donation, paypal.me/knowingbetter. Don't forget to emancipate that subscribe abolitionist. Check out the merch at knowingbetter.tv, follow join us on the subreddit!