pivotal decisions in a pivotal race. For the newshour, I am Lisa Desjardins. Amna: We are joined by James Carville. He served as a lead advisor on Bill Clinton's presidential campaign and is the subject of a new documentary titled Carville: Winning is everything, stupid, which chronicles his efforts to get president Biden to step down from the top of the ticket. James, welcome back to the newshour. James: Thank you. Always a pleasure. I have been a big fan for a long time. Amna: Let me start by getting your take on the state of the race. There is a new NPR analysis out today in the seven battleground states. It looks like Mr. Trump has his first need in the polling average in those specific battleground states since Harris moved to the top of the ticket. It is a microscopic lead, less than half a percentage point but I wonder what you make of that. James: Everybody says this. In every election but one in this century, both candidates are going about thinking they have a chance to win the election. 2008 being the only kind off exception to that. The polling is tight. What generally happens is the election breaks one way or the other until the end but we will wait and see. I have no prediction of anything like that. I am trying to work as hard as I can but everything indicates type polling everywhere. &gt;&gt; Was 20 days left, what do you think it would take to break one way or the next? There's no big events left on the calendar, right? James: To be honest, I think the campaign is getting sharper, getting more visible. And frankly, he's getting, if anything, less attached to reality even for him than I am seeing before. Some of the stuff he is out there saying is really wild and they have the weird rally. I don't know what you call it. I think he is suffering from what I call madness and dementia at the same time. Considerable evidence that he is in a pretty severe state of deterioration right now and we will have to keep monitoring and I think she's doing a little better. I really do. Amna: I want to ask you about one piece of advice you wrote. To be the certified fresh candidate, miss Harris must clearly and decisively break from Mr. Biden on a set of policy priorities she believes would define her presidency. In your view, has she done that enough? James: She has an 81 page economic plan. Like many other people, she was asked a question in town hall. She pointed to all the things she is going to do. Biden has been somewhat different from president Obama was and president Clinton was. She has her own ideas that articulated a plan and I think she could talk about that more and more, I do. Absolutely. Amna: She has adopted a somewhat unconventional media strategy which you referenced. She has been going on podcasts to directly reach millions of women on fox, to directly speak to Republicans and this reports she could go on Joe Rogan's show, Howard Stern. I these potentially high-risk, high reward scenarios for her? James: I'm not worried about it anymore. She has performed at the convention, performed during the debate. She has been on any number of different media platforms and she has performed well. I think what they are trying to do is get her in front of as many people as they possibly can and the strategy they decided, they were going to do a lot of interviews and that's fine. Seeing a lot more visibility from her than I had seen between the debate this past weekend. I'm very encouraged. She's doing a lot of different kinds of forms to talk to different kinds of people. I think that is a good idea and doing it quite well, frankly. Amna: The gender gap in this race is one of the defining features of this campaign cycle. You have Harris with a 14 point lead among women and trump with a 16 point lead among men and we have seen Harris's support with young men in particular has been sliding what is your view on that? Why do you think so many men have trouble supporting her? James: Let's just back up a second. What she is really doing well is with white college-educated men. That is a key demographic for her. It is true that she's not doing quite as well with young non--- nonwhite males as she did in 2020 but she is doing better and I think she will have to improve on that, absolutely. I have been very outspoken about the Democrats -- 48% of this. We had to take it seriously and I think we can do a little bit better and there is no doubt that we are not hitting the numbers we need to among males. Amna: I want to ask you about the money in all of this, too. The latest filing shows Democrats have a huge fundraising advantage over the last three months over the Republicans and former president trump. In these last 20 days, what kind of a different scan that money make and where should it go? James: If it did not make any difference, everybody is trying to raise as much as they can so somebody thinks it matters but you look at volunteers, I mean, they are flooded with volunteers. Trump has no ground so we have never known what it means to have a robust effort, robust voter contact effort in every place I talked to, Democrats are really putting this together. He's not putting anything together. He's trying to outsource some of it. We have a fundraising advantage, enthusiasm advantage, volunteer advantage. I think we have a visibility advantage and you have to keep pressing your advantage as you get closer and closer to election day and hopefully, I tell people that it is just the way it is. As you get close to the election, it will break it. That is the hope. I think it can happen. Amna: Always great to hear your insights and your thoughts. That is James Carville joining us tonight. James, thank you. James: Thank you very much. You bet.