hello. I'm BooneBake. Today I will make a very delicious apple pie. The shape is so cute and lovely, but the taste is even better. Cute mini apple pie shaped like an apple... It's so delicious you'll be even more surprised. We'll also tell you some tips to make your apple pie even more delicious. We also make pies dough that are crispy and have a nice texture. A perfect apple pie from start to finish... There are various events, so please watch the video until the end. The apples sent from &quot;Yeongju City&quot; have arrived. &quot;Yeongju&quot; apples are unique right from the packaging. This video contains a promotional video for "Yeongju Apples," a specialty product of Yeongju City. A portion of the proceeds from the ad was donated to a child being treated for a rare blood disorder. Can you see the little yellow dots inside the red peel? This is proof that it received a lot of sunlight and grew well. Apples with many yellow spots are high in sugar and nutritious. Yeongju apple, a sample of delicious apples~! Tips for choosing delicious apples! Second~! Choose something that is heavy and hard like a stone. When you touch a Youngju apple for the first time, you'll think, &quot;Wow! It's really heavy and hard.&quot; Also, if you touch the skin of the Yeongju apple... You will feel that it is very slightly rough... Apples with smooth peel are those grown in bags. So, those apples seem to have a little less sweetness. The Yeongju apples were firm and full of juice. The sweetness, acidity, and texture of the apples... there is nothing to criticize. If you are looking for really delicious luxury apples... Try Yeongju apples. If you have to give someone an apple as a gift... From now on, I will order Yeongju apples. I highly recommend it as a gift as well. If there is anyone who wants to try Yeongju apples... Please leave a message of support in the comments. We will send the apple box shown in the video to five people through a drawing. I cut the apples into small cubes. Soak dried cranberries in rum. It will add a highlight to your apple pie. Set it aside for a moment. Set the induction stove to low heat. unsalted butter Lightly melt the butter. Add apples cut into small cubes. Coat the butter evenly. Brown sugar / pinch of salt Adjust the amount of cinnamon powder to your preference. I put in 1.2g. If there is some moisture in the apple... Add cranberries soaked in rum. The sour and chewy texture of cranberries makes the pie more delicious. So, I recommend that you include it instead of omitting it. Taste the apples. I like it to have a slightly crunchy texture. Prepare fresh lemon juice. When the cranberries are soft, add lemon juice. Mix lightly. Add corn starch to thicken the consistency. Don't overcook the apples. Please remember. You can eat apples even raw~ Transfer to a bowl and finish with residual heat. I think it took about 5 to 6 minutes after putting it on fire. Store refrigerated until use. I will make a pie with a crispy texture. First, mix the yolk with very cold water. After sugar and salt are mixed, the yolk does not dissolve well. So, add the yolk first and mix. Today I will use Guerande salt. It has no additives and is rich in magnesium. It is called &quot;Fleur de Sel&quot; in French... It is 100% collected manually. sugar Dissolve the salt and sugar. Store refrigerated until use. Use all-purpose flour rather than cake flour. The cake flour was too weak. Add cold unsalted butter. Coat the butter with the flour. Cut the butter into very small pieces. I think you could use a food processor for this task. Make it quickly until it reaches this texture. Yolk mixture. Do not press, but mix as if cutting. Don't knead for too long. Please remember. We are making American Pie in the form of lumps. Gather it into one lump. Refrigerate for 1 hour. Comeback again~! Divide it into two chunks and roll them out. It will be much more convenient to work with. Roll out thinly to 2mm thickness. If the dough becomes soft, place it in the refrigerator until use. You can use any cookie cutter in any shape you like. Apple shaped cookie cutter I use cookie cutters I have at home. A heart mold is also good, or you can draw it like I did. Cut it into the shape of an apple. We are planning to give away the apple and flower shaped cookie cutters shown in the video through a drawing. Please leave a message of support in the comments. We will distribute it through a drawing. Cut it according to the apple shape you drew. Use leftover dough after kneading it and rolling it out again. I just cut it to the width I wanted. I measured it later and it was 0.9cm. Please cross 6 to 7 lines. Place in the refrigerator for a while to harden. Chilled apple filling. You can make the apple filling a day in advance. I put about 35g into each piece. This recipe makes about 10 to 11 servings. cranberries Apply water to the edges. Cut it into shape. It looks like this. Gently place it on top. When the dough becomes soft, press it. Please attach the seams carefully. It's convenient to use a cookie cutter. I added color with cocoa powder and food coloring. Apple leaf shape. Make the top of the apple. Please apply water. Press the seam firmly. I'll freeze it for a while before baking. Freeze for 20 minutes. Make egg wash. Yolk:milk=1:2 ratio. Apply egg wash evenly. 30-33 minutes in 160C oven. (320F) These are dried apple chips made from Yeongju apples. This is my son's favorite snack. This is a snack that can be safely given to young children. It's really, really, really delicious. It was all baked in the oven. I'll try eat.~ Sweet, sour, and chewy apple filling inside a crispy pie. Should we drink apple juice too? It is an apple juice that is unsweetened, uncolored, and preservative-free. It contains the health of nature. Yeongju apples, apple slices, apple juice... You can purchase all of these on "Yeongju Market Day". Thanks for watching.