We have reached southern Spain and are now in Andalusia at the Mar Azul campsite in Balerma. We changed our route. I would like to talk about this in this video. And we have some new pitches. We looked at two or three new parking spaces in France and I would like to report on them in this video. Welcome to it. Because of the storm in the Valencia region, we changed our route and drove inland. So say Girona from there inland towards Zaragoza, Madrid and then down Granada to the sea again here. We have driven this route several times. But we haven't known them for six years now. So it was really nice for us that we drove this route again. I know you can now pass through Valencia again. So the highways will be passable again in the next few days. Otherwise you have to drive through Valencia. That was all possible. But of course there was heavy traffic and there were traffic jams, so it wasn't entirely pleasant. Some people said that they drove through here heading south. But that wasn't an issue for us. We said we were a little early, it wasn't that far yet. Valencia was still a big problem with the roads due to the storm so we drove through the interior. Yes, going inland wasn't a problem for us. There are enough parking spaces there. We drove everything on the motorway, the motorway is free of tolls and I will soon report on which parking spaces we drove to in further videos. But now let's start with a parking space that we drove to in France, which is very interesting for everyone who is driving towards Spain to use as a stopover and I would like to show it to you. I have to add one more thing: We are currently driving without a toll box. Unfortunately it didn't work. We haven't received a toll box yet, nor have we received a new one from Maut1. It didn't reach us in time before we left. So now we drive without a toll box. That's no problem. We get a ticket when we enter the highway and when we leave, we pay. That's no problem. You don't need a toll box. It's pleasant, but it's also possible without it. We have decided to introduce some new parking spaces on our route towards Spain. Stages, places that you can use when you are traveling south. We started from Niebull in the morning, we have already passed them on the motorway towards Dijon and are now heading to the town of Boun, there has been a larger parking space there for a long time and I would like to show it here. We always find it very pleasant when the place is not that far from the motorway. And that's the case in this case. We're now driving into the city and now we have to look for the parking space. We work with two navigation systems. Once we have the Garmin Camper 98 on the front of the dashboard and then I have Google Maps on, via my cell phone, via Apple Car, they say. I believe. And then I can see exactly where the place is. And now we're trying to get going. Yes, we can't do that straight away because we're somehow wrong now. We can't find the place. Our sat navs somehow showed us the wrong route. But we don't know what the problem is, whether we may have entered the wrong coordinates or whether they are fundamentally wrong. Now we have to find a way to turn around here in the city . That's coming soon too. There will be a roundabout soon. We'll turn around there and then we'll take another look at where the place is. Here is the roundabout. Rita looked at her cell phone and checked where exactly the place was. And that's why we know we have to turn here now and have to go back and then drive to the place again! I then checked it again. The coordinates were not given quite correctly in the app, we in the app from Camper Contact. That's why we drove past the square and the access road is also difficult to see. Now we're heading towards it. Here, on the right-hand side, is the access road, then there is an entrance. Not this and a little further, there is another entrance and we have to go in there. You can now also see the sign pointing to the parking space. Didn't see it when we first arrived so we drove past. Normally this place has a barrier system, but you can see the barrier is open and broken. You can currently stand on the square here for free. Since I have a tracker installed in our motorhome, I can track exactly how I drove. I can also see how we drove out again. That's all included here. And yes, I know where the error is or where I turned. Anyway, we got here around lunchtime on a Wednesday. The place is already well attended, but there are still enough free places. There are around ten spaces, which are longer for larger mobiles or for mobiles with a trailer. On the right we see the long spaces and on the left there are shorter spaces for vehicles. I would estimate up to 7 meters long. There will be a total of 70 places here. At the front of the entrance you will find an information board with the prices. The place costs EUR8.70 per day for 20 hours. If you want water or if you want electricity, you have to draw chips. Here with the Visa card and then you pay for either the electricity or the water with the tanks. When I say Visa card, of course I mean credit card. If you want to urinate: That's no problem, it's free of charge. There is a grate here that you can dispose of. Then we see another column here, where you can empty the toilet, the cassette. However, you also have to pay for that. You need a chip for this and that costs EUR4.70, if I understand that correctly. You insert the chip here and then a door opens on the left. There you can switch off the cassette and also rinse it. Since the barrier system doesn't work and therefore payment wasn't necessary, I can't report exactly about it. And we didn't dispose of it here on this site either. There is electricity on the left side. Here you need a token that you have to insert and then you get electricity for four hours, which means you pay EUR4.70 for four hours. Of course, that's a lot of money for electricity. I think you have to take a ticket when you enter and then pay for it when you leave. Because on this machine here you can see that there is a ticket notice and also a credit card slot. In this respect, payment will be made here and then you can leave. Here at the exit you can also see the sign towards the motorway, so you immediately know which direction you have to go. Since we arrived here at the parking space early, we of course made our way into the city, into the center of the city. And there is a footpath that starts from the parking space. You can also easily walk into town. From now on we walked into the city without much prior knowledge of sights. I only know this much: the city has around 20,000 inhabitants and is the capital of wine. More like Burgundy. We are not prepared now and so we don't know which sights we should see here. But that's sometimes the case when you start off so spontaneously. In that respect, it's a bit of a shame. So anyone driving to this city should perhaps prepare a little for what there is to see here. There are chic restaurants here, but the prices, as you can see here, are not entirely worth it. It continued to fill up. Larger mobiles have now also arrived. But there is enough space here too. There were still places available in the evening. Of course I don't know if that's always the case, but given the large number of places, I think you always have a chance of finding a place. The place here is well lit by the street lamps, which makes things pleasant. In the evening you are not here like that, just in the dark. In the evening the street that passes by is also quiet. There is also a gas station there, you can have breakfast there, I was told. We weren't there. I think there will probably be a fresh baguette there too. Next morning, unfortunately a bit foggy. The weather isn't as nice as the previous days, but it's worth it. So we start our next stage, which is to go to Chusclan. That's around 350 kilometers from Bouna. We're quickly back on the A6 motorway, which then takes us to Lyon. Maybe a few words about tolls. In France, you are classified in different classes. For vehicles over three and a half tons there is a different class like under three and a half tons and then of course the height. However, the height is usually measured. This means that if you are over 3 meters high, you are put in a different class, if I remember correctly, in class three, and you also pay tolls accordingly. This time we decided to drive through Lyon, not to use the bypass but to drive directly through Lyon. You can see that there is a bit of a traffic jam here, so you have to allow for a bit more time. Of course it's a little shorter. I guess it's about 20 kilometers shorter if you drive through Lyon. And then of course you have to go through the tunnels here. If I remember correctly, there are two tunnels that you have to go through. If you don't have traffic jams, you can drive through the city a little faster. However, there is a seven and a half ton limit set by the city, but I don't know for sure whether it's just for trucks and motorhomes are excluded from this. This is beyond my knowledge. In the meantime, the storm had occurred in the Valencia region and of course we found out about it. And now it's not entirely clear to us: what do we do now? And so we discussed during the journey: What should we do? Shall we continue on to Spain? Let's stay in France and the decision hasn't been made at this moment. Now we are on the direct route to the parking space, which we have used several times. I have already reported about this place several times. We'll go there for now. The weather is very nice, the temperature outside is around 20 degrees and so we thought about staying there first and checking out the situation, what it looks like in Spain now and whether we can drive at all and how we can drive. First a few words about tolls. We paid EUR34 toll from Boun to Lyon, from Lyon to the exit. We then paid another EUR38 here. So in total we paid EUR72 in tolls for the journey. From the motorway to the parking space you still have to drive about 20 kilometers on a side route. This parking space is located at a wine cooperative. It is a large gravelled area. Everything is very simple, but also free of charge. And there is a supply there. It is now used by many campers as a stopover spot and some even stay here for a few days. to perhaps recover a bit from the journey. I don't know it. But the surrounding area here, the Rhone, is not far away either. You can get there quickly. So you can do a little bit of stuff here. You can see that the place is already busy in the afternoon. But you can also stand here in the middle of the square. That's what we're going to do now. And then we will continue to discuss here how our journey should continue. That should be it for today. Of course I will continue to report on our trip and on other stops that we used on our trip to Spain. I say thank you very much for watching and bye bye until next time.