Through cut-throat competition and self-interest, a century and in the process become the symbol Much admire, much hated, and the best Risk it's clearly a culture that cultivates ruthlessness. Remember for Goldman to be winners, there [Music] [Music] in 1886 after making a small fortune from Marcus Goldman decided to get into Finance. He sees a need for small businesses to turn At the time, bank loans are harder to get He would offer to buy their short-term debt investors and bankers at a higher price. These short-term loans later became what's Around that time, it was the beginning of Unlike commercial banks that provide more Goldman Sachs provide riskier financing - hence Ten years later Marcus Goldman grows his business papers per year. At the age of 60, Goldman has already surpassed the family business thrives after he retires a partner. By 1896 Sachs grows the firm to have 1.6 million for the business of issuing and trading commercial To grow, they need to find the next big thing public AKA IPOs. If it's the first time you've been issued offering. So you're a private company. It's just you and a few friends own the company go to an investment bank, talk to them about solve that problem for you by doing an underwriting. At the time doing IPOs belonged to more elite As a Jewish firm, Goldman Sachs was sort of But the Goldman Sachs partnership is determined and they know just where to look. [Music] They're going to start by taking a [Music] In 1897 Sears had a net worth of 250 thousand in revenue and 2.8 million dollars in net It's a perfect candidate for an IPO. But taking Sears public will be a tremendous can handle alone. Goldman Sachs decides to partner up with another Together, they underwrite 30 million dollars preferred stocks for Sears. Both firms rake in an unprecedented amount As a result of their success, many companies becomes a prominent Investment Bank on Wall The senior partner Henry Goldman even gets Reserve System. But IPOs are a cyclical business. After profiting millions in fees for issuing to find a way to reinvest its money. The timing is flawless! The Roaring 20s is one of the greatest bull It was a boom like we've never had. There was a belief that we were in the Emerald Think about the Roaring 20s it was the Go-Go, when it's so easy for anybody to go get out As an opportunist, Goldman Sachs intends to It forms a trading Corporation by putting sells more shares to the public at 10 times As a result, the trading Corporation raises is worth almost 10 million dollars. Today the entity is more or less like the As you can see, the essence of Finance hasn't After making money virtually from thin air, simply because there are people in the market This is not unlike the.com bubble during the During the Roaring 20s, you can just create it public and the market will buy it. Day by day we were nearer to the final triumph of any land. But nothing good lasts forever. Eventually, everything comes crashing down. That day it's October 29, 1929. Half of the active manpower of the United Marriage is off 22 percent, divorce rate down The crash is the worst America has seen in Corporation is reduced almost to nothing. Hundreds of millions of dollars are evaporated, 13 million dollars of its investment. Within a year, hundreds of investment trusts banks with them [Music] Goldman Sachs manages to survive the crash firm, all thanks to one man - Sidney Weinberg. Sydney Weinberg is raised in a poor Brooklyn He's the third of 11 children. To support the family, he's forced to quit Sidney shows a willingness to work hard and Started as a janitor at Goldman Sachs, he in a period of 15 years. He had a tremendous capacity for connectivity like being with Sydney Weinberg. With his ability to make friends in high places majority of the investment banking business Electric public. Even after the collapse of Goldman Sachs Trading with the firm. The successful comeback of Goldman Sachs makes He now attempts to do something impossible Fort Motors is a giant car manufacturing company Ford. Ford always thought in the sense of consumerism You know sometimes populist in politics talked wanted a car in every driveway. By 1956, Ford is the second-largest cart maker Its IPO will make any Investment Bank a fortune. Henry Ford, he never trusted Wall Street. He thought Wall Street was gambling and that Even JB Morgan Jr has failed to take Ford Henry Ford was a great man but not a good so we can never mistake greatness in business But it has been nine years since Henry Ford different man. To Sidney Weinberg, this is his chance to [Music] A big breakthrough came in the 1950s when Ford Motor Company, given that Henry Ford (It's a )sort of a seed change on Wall Street. As profit rolls in, Goldman Sachs needs to As it turns out, a small trading department This department is led by a legendary Trader America is on the rise! After the Civil War, the country experiences One industry reaps the reward of this economic Goldman Sachs, a prominent Investment Bank, by taking them public and in the process making After the IPO of GE and Fort Motors, Goldman banks on Wall Street. But to them, it's never enough. They don't think in terms of money. They think in terms of winning. Now, naturally if you win big in business, But that shouldn't be your objective. Your objective should be to win - to win! Win all the time! Not sometimes, every time! [Music] While Weinberg brings in a steady stream of trader has struck gold with a trading strategy His name is Gus Levy Born in a middle-class household in May 1910 big bucks in New York. Through calculated risk-taking, by the time and a well-respected partner at Goldman Sachs. His specialty is block trading - a form of Levy learns that because the market can react block of shares, he could negotiate a price He then will resell the shares gradually in At that time there were many inefficiencies opportunities. The profit is small but firms like Goldman By the 1960s as Sydney Weinberg is approaching apparent and for the first time a traitor The guy was a shaker, maker, doer. Gus Levy was in there seven o'clock in the him around the clock. His life was the business. For the coming decade, Gus Levy drastically source of revenue for the firm. But as Goldman Sachs issues more Securities the firm becomes even more vulnerable. For a lot of finance companies, it doesn't one mistake away from a total collapse. Goldman Sachs is back to make that mistake When the Pennsylvania Railroad acquires New the country's largest railroad company, called While the company already has a 1.2 billion needs more to operate. It hires Goldman Sachs to issue another 100 With a high rating and especially seeing Goldman in, eager to buy Penn Central's commercial The bankruptcy trustees have done their best has not been able to generate revenues sufficient track and equipment, including its Freight After the bankruptcy of Penn Central, the wiped out and they immediately start suing The funny thing is that the national credit rating, because Goldman Sachs was its underwriter more debt because of high ratings. In the end Goldman Sachs is ordered to pay Penn Central's commercial papers [Music] That's interesting isn't it?? It's almost as if Goldman Sachs knew something But the Penn Central Scandal is just a sign As the economic conditions worsen in the 1970s, bad. Goldman Sachs is repeatedly forced to pay like Getty Oil and University Hill Foundation. But none of this prepares Goldman Sachs for [Music] For a while Gus Levy seemed Invincible. He's transformed Goldman Sachs from a boutique that is disciplined and hungry. But in recent years, the stress we have caught He dies from a stroke during a business trip. [Music] It's a shock to everyone at the firm as Gus people at Goldman Sachs know there is one be the guy to turn Goldman Sachs around - John Harvard educated, John Whitehead was also a part of the D-Day. He realizes Goldman Sachs cannot continue The firm needs to operate like the military, I wondered how all these new people that we with the principles of Goldman Sachs, the So on a Sunday afternoon and with a yellow principles. Whitehead also started to standardize the sure the employees put their clients' interest We arrive at the at the meeting at 5 PM. It's the Friday before the Memorial Day three-day We are sitting there waiting! A couple guys left okay? When the guy showed up at 10 o'clock, five is about waiting for people that are more there'll be a billionaire you need to get okay? You need to be conditioned for that? Whitehead's leadership not only makes Goldman trustworthiness in the minds of their clients. The timing again is impeccable! Whitehead knows to win in the business of the highest of service. [SPONSORSHIP] Driven by easy money and relaxed regulation, Companies are eager to acquire and merge with for the investment banking industry. After overcoming countless crises, Goldman Under the leadership of John Whitehead, in in profit - a 60 increase from the previous But at the height of his power, Whitehead Secretary of State under President Ronald and Robert Rubin. Rubin built the options trading business at for the firm. Now having Goldman under his control, he's But he has no idea that an unlikely adversary In 1987, Goldman Sachs senior partner Robert A few years back, Goldman Sachs was the underwriter Broadcasting Company Storer. As an insider, Friedman indirectly revealed to sell a call option to make a profit. Now that's classic insider trading, but you'd go unnoticed. But not this time! Robert Friedman's insider trading was noticed an opportunity to propel himself to the mayorship. Rudy Giuliani, the U.S attorney of the Southern But he doesn't just want to prosecute Robert He wants to create a public spectacle. So he arrested Freeman but he deliberately periodically leaked information to the media. [Music] Goldman Sachs's reputation has been dragged For an investment bank, that could be catastrophic them. as a result. But their clients decide to stick around. Goldman Sachs is really great at bouncing clients are American Corporations and they them money, everything else is secondary. Rubin successfully navigated Goldman Sachs legal troubles during the early 1990s. Like his predecessor, Rubin also goes to Washington He's the consummate honest broker and Bob Benson. Bob!? By 1993 Goldman Sachs makes 2.7 billion dollars trading. For a decade, the firm lives under the principle but that is gradually shifting because Goldman bigger scale, composed mostly of their own Around that time Goldman Sachs had about two 98 billion dollars of total assets! So that's a very high leverage, but the problem and they're leaving with their capital. They need a stable base of capital that can't The solution? Going public! But there is just one problem - by 1997 Goldman Paulson. It's an arrangement that has worked well for company, there can only be one King and Hank [Music] I was a competitive kid! I had a little bit of what my wife ridicules I didn't want to just learn - I wanted to As a devout Christian, Paulson strictly follows At Goldman Sachs, Hank Paulson was known to him through thick and thin. I think it's because they see him as an honest I have never been a career planner. I am ambitious and competitive but whatever to me. But Hank Paulson doesn't get along with his of the firm decide to support Paulson as the By 1997, after bringing three billion dollars firmly installed as the leader. The partnership is ready to go public But no one knows - an unexpected crisis is Long-term Capital Management was a hedge fund at Solomon Brothers, and backed by a group [Music] In a moment of tremendous clarity, together can effectively eliminate risk itself. The hedge fund had an instant success, making Wall Street firms are competing to become The fund operated on perfect mathematical studied the history of the financial Market. That's an old Market rule - &quot;the market will do.&quot; In 1998, the so-called Black Swan event happened for a sovereign country defaulting on its August 1998, something happened, no one had in the world suddenly and without explanation In a single day, LTCM (Sorry guys.) loses After learning about LTCM's trouble, Goldman positions into the market, accelerating LTCM's But ultimately the Fed comes in and bails We expect that they're going to explain to Reserve has organized the three and a half Why Americans should be worried about the LTCM's failure may have almost caused a financial that Goldman Sachs survives. Now with the LTCM's crisis resolved and at goes public! [Music] A big debut expected tomorrow for the Goldman The IPO is ... Goldman Sachs goes public by shares, bringing home 3.7 billion dollars. To go public Goldman Sachs had to release the company. People now realize just how profitable Goldman In the five and a half years before 1998, dollars. Because of the partnership accounting much out to the Goldman Sachs partners. Now as a public company, Goldman Sachs searches By the start of 2000, a new business is booming [Music] And $500 a ticket, they've come to American dream. You had a huge boom in housing that made no The financing appetites of the financial sector By 2006, mortgage-backed Securities become Wall Street Banks. In a span of two years from 2005, Goldman of mortgage-backed securities. At the peak of his success, Hank Paulson follows Good morning welcome to the White House I'm Paulson to be the Secretary of the Treasury. He has a lifetime of business experience. He has an intimate knowledge of financial issues in clear terms. Since trading has become the main business trader - Lloyd Blankfein. At that point, Goldman Sachs is almost like They have tens of billions of their own money, Their clients begin to play a lesser role. During the bull market, the issue is less and their principles of putting their clients Financial storm in recent history. A news story? The mortgage meltdown! This morning in the mortgage meltdown new are losing their homes. More than 70 mortgage companies have failed the biggest of the big companies, the bear the bag. What was considered to be a profitable business destruction. Everybody in this secretization food chain didn't care about the quality of the mortgage. They were caring about maximizing their volume, After the fire sale of Bear Stern to JP Morgan the entire Investment Banking sector is on Having a large exposure to supply mortgage firms on Wall Street. We're faced with the prospect of a global Out of options, Goldman Sachs turns to an [Music] Warren Buffett's investment gives To recoup from trading loss, Goldman Sachs but also starts abetting against them, using default swaps. The Sachs figured out before other firms that in December of 2006 and they made a big a You shouldn't be selling junk. You shouldn't be selling crap. Ya shouldn't be betting against your own customer From Goldman Sachs perspective, their argument they will create it for him, but the actions The 2008 Scandal is just the beginning of Since that, Goldman Sachs has been caught [Music] Even with all of that, Goldman Sachs emerges firm. I think the secret to Goldman Zach's success money making trend and simply executing it they're quick to cut losses and bounce back. Whenever there's a boom, Goldman Sachs is By 2018 America fights itself on the precipice investors. As companies like Robinhood offer free commission market, driving the growth of consumer finance. Goldman Sachs sees this as a new opportunity 2020 has seen the rise of the retail investor catering to the rich, is preparing to offer Investing can be an important part of creating So we'd like to introduce ourselves .... We are Marcus Invest, an automated way to [Music] It is now 2022, and the world has changed. But for Goldman Sachs, it's still the same They have got the most formidable internal organization in finance in the history of In the game of the survival of the fittest, It's a firm that is highly disciplined and