During the 14th century BC, ancient Egypt who is widely recognized as a master of diplomacy. Through his cunning exploitation of international vast empire he inherited, but also His incredibly successful reign rendered him in ancient Egyptian history, earning him the name "Amenhotep the Magnificent"! Amenhotep, whose name means "Amun is content," pharaoh, Thutmose the Fourth. Thutmose the Third, was one of the most for his efforts to greatly expand the empire As crown prince, the young Amenhotep The foundations for his eventual in his childhood through a rigorous education Literacy was a highly valued skill, mastered by In addition to learning how to write Egyptian master Mesopotamian cuneiform, which Education at the royal court was rigid and as evidenced by an instructional text dating to "Do not be idle, or waste your time. Do not give Write with your hand, read with your mouth and seek skilled in his calling, a master of education, is most fortunate. Persevere and spend not a moment in idleness or you will be beaten. A boy's ear is Take these words to heart for your own good." the young prince was proclaimed Pharaoh becoming the ninth ruler of the 18th dynasty. a series of commemorative scarabs Scarabs are pieces of steatite stone carved native to the deserts of Egypt. creation and rebirth, scarabs began to be worn Amenhotep used scarabs in an entirely different depicted important events during his reign Egyptologists consider them to telegrams in recorded history. An announcing Amenhotep's marriage to a commoner Queen Tiye was only six years old when she became on to become one of the most significant As a young pharaoh, Amenhotep was and handle a bow and arrow with great proficiency. A second series of commemorative scarabs and arrows to kill a total of 102 lions. way to demonstrate strength during times However, during his fifth year in power, several of Egypt rich in natural resources. routes, which called for the 16-year-old pharaoh's immediate attention. Amenhotep led an army into Nubia and 30,000 captives back to Egypt. campaign of his entire reign, but in his eventual diplomatic success. With to massive deposits of minerals such as gold, were vital to the empire's thriving economy. Egypt's territories and brought it to a position of eagerly awaiting the opportunity to shift the balance of power in their favor. Egypt's greatest rivals at the time were the Assyrians, and the Babylonians. of marriage as a diplomatic strategy. he commissioned a third series of his marriage to Princess Gilukhepa, who The scarabs record the princess' arrival with additions to Amenhotep's personal harem. hoard of Nubian gold by sending solid gold Amenhotep would go on to turn this Over time, a rumor spread amongst Egypt's abundance of the precious metal. One "Gold is like the sand in Egypt, you simply gather it up." Foreign kings perceived this to be their own ventures at home. Eventually, these foreign kings were willing to trade almost anything to obtain By indebting them through financial dependence a significant edge over his adversaries The pharaoh would go on to offer marriage might one day pose a threat to Egypt. the Hittite and Assyrian rulers, along with the Kadashman-Enlil the First. The and the Babylonian king is inscribed Engraved in cuneiform script with messages between the necks of the kings' closest confidants The royal couriers often traveled at a time and due to the highly sensitive ensuring their safe passage was critical. granting diplomatic immunity, which guaranteed The Amarna Letters offer unique insight into position of supremacy over foreign rulers. whose sister was already married to Amenhotep, sought to obtain additional gold from the pharaoh, writing: "My daughters who are married to to speak with them, they send me a Amenhotep humorously replied to the king by writing: "Should your sister select some gift, I will send daughters just for the sake of acquiring a The Babylonian king even daringly asked the pharaoh to send him an Egyptian princess to marry. "From time immemorial, no daughter of the Kadashman-Enlil grew desperate enough to be sent instead, writing: &quot;Someone else's grown-up So send me a beautiful woman as if she She is not the pharaoh's daughter?'" but proceeded to turn the tables on the Babylonian daughter's hand in marriage, which &quot;My daughters being available, I will not refuse one to you... Now as to the gold I wrote to you about, please send me whatever is on hand or as much as possible.&quot; only ruler in the world worthy of marrying Egyptian princesses. This belief prompted the pharaoh to wed two of It is unkown whether Amenhotep fathered any that the pharaoh's intention was to prevent future claim to the Egyptian throne. his rivals' lust for gold led to numerous Egypt grew exceedingly wealthy as foreign horses, copper, and precious stones. Around record harvests, which the Egyptian people viewed to bestow fertility upon the land. The to devote his time to the arts and the in all of ancient Egyptian history. This Egypt to announce the building of of his Great Royal Wife, Queen Tiye. Its the royal residence with the Nile River, An architectural masterpiece, it was designed to following the annual flooding of the Nile. is often attributed to the assistance of a similar name: Amenhotep, Son of Hapu. and architect, and entrusted him with managing of the temples at Karnak and Luxor. the rare honor of building his own mortuary to the high esteem that he held him in. Imhotep, a sizable cult following developed god of healing for over three centuries. known Egyptian commoners to ever Amenhotep was renowned for keeping detailed all his construction projects and documentation During this hiatus, he chose instead to commission to the Egyptian goddess of war and healing, plagues, but to end them as well. that the empire was experiencing a severe plague at the time. The excessive number of statues may have been in hopes that the goddess would lift the curse. Queen Tiye to their royal palace by Amenhotep's devoutness was evident, but loyalty to the sun god Aten in particular. exclusively to Aten, aiming to elevate As Amenhotep grew older, his health deteriorated arthritis, and obesity. According to this Amarna letter, King Tushratta of Mitanni sent a statue of the Hurrian goddess of healing, Sauska, to aid with the pharaoh's failing health. and she is on her way. May Sauska, my brother and me, 100,000 years, and may our mistress grant both of us great joy." It was in the best interest of foreign kings for whether his successor would continue After a lengthy reign of 38 years, Amenhotep was entombed in the Valley of the Kings. son, who was given the name Amenhotep the Fourth change it to Akhenaten and become notorious Akhenaten and his wife Nefertiti declared Aten the veneration of all other gods, including The new pharaoh inherited the empire at talent for leadership and diplomacy. rapidly deteriorated during Akhenaten's unprecedented stability that his father Amenhotep went on to become so revered that the Hebrew Bible's story of King Solomon was based on the pharaoh's life due to several striking similarities. In the stretching from the Nile River to the Euphrates River, accumulated great wealth and wisdom, devoted his efforts to impressive building with the daughters of foreign kings. diplomacy, Amenhotep the Third brought future generations to forever remember Consider liking, commenting, subscribing and