I often see people online use the phrase "explain of a complicated topic. They might want an GPS works, explained in a simple way even A little while ago I came across a post that explanation for mathematical objects called and it started with: "I don't think spinors 5". up in advanced quantum physics, and they have you've learned any particle physics, you can be broken up into two categories: the particles, and fermions, which are the matter-type All known fundamental bosons have either spin-1, spin-0, which are represented by scalars. objects to any undergraduate physics student. spin-1/2, and these are represented by spinors. are described by spinors... but what exactly A first introduction to spinors will normally Euclidean vectors are basically just pointed 360-degrees, they end up back where they started. they come back to the negative version of 720-degrees, to get a spinor back to where This property of requiring 2 full turns to the defining properties of spinors. And this we turn the free end of this belt once, we the free end around. However, after a second free end like this. A similar trick can be leaves your arm with a twist... and a second Now, these are cute tricks, but when I started I found most textbooks were incredibly hard I've spent over a year studying spinors, down. My goal now is to make a video series appropriate for undergraduate students or have to waste as much time being confused Like most complicated topics, I think it's climbing the stairs on a staircase, starting and gradually getting more complicated and basic examples of spinors in physics, viewing viewing spinors as members of Clifford algebras, Lie algebras, and finally talking a bit about particles in particle physics and quantum So for the rest of this video I'm going You probably won't understand a lot of what give you a basic roadmap of the ideas that as the video series goes on. are examples from physics: such as basic quantum waves. that putting electrically neutral silver atoms them to choose between one of two states: up and down point in opposite directions, and spin-down states of a particle don't in an abstract state space. The rules of quantum mutually exclusive, they must be orthogonal. are mutually exclusive, and so they are orthogonal, an angle-doubling relationship between these space corresponds to a 180-turn in physical the state space corresponds to 2 full turns to get back where we started is exactly what are best described using spinors. We can write two components indicate the probabilities given quantum state. physics, where light is described as a wave. "polarization". Two basic kinds of polarization If we take a vertically polarized wave and polarized. After another 90-degree rotation, with its phase shifted by half a cycle. Again, physical space and the polarization state to a full turn in polarization state space. with quantum spin states, it does turn out light using spinors. Once again we can write two components indicate the amounts of vertically given light wave. effect with no quantum mechanics at all. Spinors are very important in quantum mechanics, they physics too. the next step is to discuss spinors from a learn that "spinors are like the square a 3D vector and use a special trick to factor With a matrix, which is a rank-2 tensor, we vector and a row vector, which are both rank-1 into a pair of rank-1 tensors. Now, if we xyz, we can use a special trick to write it is done by multiplying each component of the factor this 2x2 Pauli vector into a column So loosely speaking, we're factoring a vector, which are like rank-1/2 tensors. usually use a 3x3 rotation matrix like this. Pauli vector, rotating the x, y and z components on each side. Each matrix is responsible for Pauli vector into a pair of Pauli spinors, matrix. So each spinor only rotates half as with and quantum spin states and polarization So when looking at all the different ranks in right here. Spinors are sort of like a can combine two spinors into a rank-1 tensor, as vectors do. in 3D space, in special relativity it's 4-dimensional spacetime, which are called Pauli spinors and Weyl spinors are different columns. We'll clear the difference between The next step in the staircase is Clifford but they help us define spinors in any dimension, Most physics students are familiar with scalars more useful to use their higher-dimensional For example, it's much more natural to represent an oriented plane, instead of using a vector, to make sense of. "wedge product". The wedge product of U and V, with an orientation that follows we get the same plane, but with the opposite and it's a much more straightforward way product, we can build bivectors, trivectors, which make it easier to represent geometric vectors for everything. a Grassman Algebra, or sometimes an Exterior product AND a dot product, we call it a Clifford The Clifford product of two vectors is like product. In the clifford algebra for 3D space, and in 4D spacetime, the basis vectors are In Clifford algebras, vectors are also rotated we saw with Pauli vectors. Spinors also arise we can see the spin up and spin-down states algebra. We'll see that spinors can be defined algebras. This is a pretty abstract-sounding over several videos, step-by-step. Ultimately, spinors using the right combinations of scalars, dimension. any dimension is nice, when it comes to physics, with 3-dimensional space and 4-dimensional In particle physics, each type of particle particles being either spin-0, spin- 1/2, or spin, like spin-3/2, and the theoretical graviton Any theory of quantum mechanics that incorporates the different particle types transform under this, we need to learn the theory of Lie Groups If we exponentiate this 3x3 matrix here, times plane. We say that this rotation matrix is we exponentiate is called a "generator", are generators for all the 3x3 rotation matrices, relations, which is why they form a Lie Algebra. starting point, we can find many generator them. When we exponentiate these generators, particle types. The 3x3 matrices rotate standard spinors, and the other matrices rotate particles So looking at different matrices that come for rotating particles with different spins We can follow similar reasoning for Lorentz Lie group SO(1,3), which has 6 generators. and particles of other spins according to At this point we'll have most of the math look at how they are used in particle physics. excitations in various fields. For example, field, and a photon is an excitation in the scalar field, the spin-1 force-carrying particles matter particles each have spinor fields. Field Theory, or &quot;QFT&quot;, and the interactions an enormous formula called the Standard Model contain a pair of fields represent an interaction represents the electron spinor field interacting Spinors in quantum field theory are 4-component are really a pair of 2-component Weyl spinors, having right-handed chirality. Ordinary tensors but because Weyl spinors come in both left-handed 4 index types, using dots for right-handed notation is called the Van der Warden notation. Force is only known to interact with left-handed mirror, or equivalently, swapping all the does not result in the same physics. And studying how the various forces, like the weak force, The study of Quantum Field theory can last this series I'll only be scratching the So I realize if you've never studied spinors take in. You don't need to understand any basic roadmap for where this video series finish every single video in the series. Some after the first couple steps, and decide they fine fine. But I'm hoping that anyone who of detail will find this video series helpful physics. So if you're interested in watching the description, and we'll start with learning in physics.