- This is a video about things like cars, phones, and light bulbs that made them worse. This video was sponsored by NordVPN, more about them at the end of the video I am outside Livermore And in here, they have the longest, continuously on light bulb in the world. It has been on for 120 years since 1901. There it is. - [Host] Yeah, that's it. - It's not even connected but it does have a backup So the big question is, how has this light bulb lasted so long? It was manufactured by hand not long after commercial light And yet, it has been running way longer than any light Awhile back, a friend of that someone had invented a light bulb that would last forever years ago, but they never sold it because an everlasting light bulb makes for a terrible business model. I mean, you would never and eventually you would run out of people to sell light bulbs to, I thought this story sounded ridiculous. If you could make an then everyone would buy your light bulb over the competitors. And so you could charge make a lot of money, even if I just couldn't imagine that in the past and then but it turns out I was wrong. At least sort of. Inventing a viable I mean, this is the typical which just involves through a material making less than 5% of the electrical The other 95% is released as heat. So these are really heat bulbs, which give off a little bit The temperature of the filament That is half as hot as At temperatures like - That's so cool. they burn, which is why in the 1840s, up with the idea of putting so there's no oxygen to react with. By 1879, Thomas Edison had made a bulb with a cotton thread filament Other inventors created or other carbonized materials. And gradually, the lifespan The filaments changed which has a very high melting point. And by the early 1920s, were approaching 2,000 hours But this is when lifetimes and started getting shorter. In Geneva, Switzerland just there was a secret from the world's leading Phillips, International General Electric, Tokyo Electric, OSRAM from Germany, and the UK's Associated They formed what became known as the Phoebus Cartel named after Phoebus, the Greek God of light. There, all these companies agreed to work together to help each other by controlling the world In the early days of there had been lots of different small light bulb manufacturers, but by now they had into these big corporations, each dominant in a The biggest threat they all faced was from longer lasting light bulbs. For example, in 1923, OSRAM but the following year Light bulbs were lasting So all the companies in the cartel agreed to reduce the lifespan of their bulbs to 1,000 hours cutting the But how could each company ensure that the other companies would and make shorter lasting light bulb. After all, it would be in each to make a better product Well, to enforce the 1,000 hour limit, each of the manufacturers from their factories and they like this one. If a bulb lasted significantly longer than then the company was fined. If a bulb lasted longer than 3000 hours, well the fine was 200 Swiss Francs for every 1,000 bulbs sold. And there are records of these fines being issued to companies. But how do you make a worst Well, the same engineers who with extending the lifespan to decrease it. So they tried different materials, different shaped filaments, And if you look at the Ever since the formation of the cartel. the lifespan of light So that by 1934, the average And just as they had for cartel members by 25% in And even though the cost the cartel kept prices so they increased their profit margins. So did people know that were conspiring together to No, the Phoebus Cartel to increase standardization I mean, they did establish You can find it on around the world now. But all evidence points to by profits and increased sales, not by what was best for consumers. So one of the reasons this because it was made before the cartel era. Another reason is because the at low power, just four or five watts. It was meant to be a nightlight for the fire station to so that firemen wouldn't And the fact that it was always on reduced the thermal cycling of the filament and components by thermal expansion and contraction. The Phoebus Cartel was at least until 1955, but It was already struggling And non-compliance amongst but the outbreak of World War II is really what finished it off. So this cartel was dead, but its methods survived to this day. There are lots of companies out there that intentionally shortened it's a tactic known now This was actually the first viral video all - [Support] Thank you for May I have your first name please? - [Casey] Casey. - [Support] ] All right, and what seems to be the issue today? - [Casey] I have an iPod that and the battery is dead on it. - [Support] 18 months, which basically means there'll be a charge of $255 plus a mailing to refurbish, to correct it. But at that price, you might - [Narrator] This video in a time before YouTube or social media. And it spawned a class action lawsuit, which Apple settled out of court, but it didn't stop the company from practicing planned obsolescence. After an iOS update in 2017, users of older iPhones found apps loading significantly slower or the Apple said they throttled of older devices and Of course, that wouldn't be an issue if the battery were replaceable. In a series of lawsuits Apple was fined or reached settlements to pay hundreds of millions of dollars, undoubtedly, this amount to the extra revenue they generate by limiting the lifespan But some would argue that just about greed, but that During the great depression in the 1930s when as much as 1/4 of and real estate broker Bernard London proposed mandatory planned obsolescence as a way to get people back to work and lift America out of the depression. He wrote, &quot;I would have the of life to shoes, and homes, and machines when they are first created and they would be sold of their existence, definitely After the allotted time had expired, these things would be legally dead and would be controlled by the duly appointed governmental if there is widespread unemployment.&quot; Now, this might sound but people were clearly afraid by technological progress and There was even a popular &quot;This is the man in the It's about a scientist who It won't stain or break, or fray. - I think I've succeeded in the copolymerization and carbohydrate molecules, It's really perfectly simple. - [Narrator] The Academy for best screenplay, I kid you not. Anyway, everyone is initially excited about our heroes scientific discovery. He makes a suit out of the because the fiber is so stain resistant, it can't even be dyed, but this is when trouble strikes, the factory owners realize as much of this thread And the workers worry it'll - Why can't you scientists What about my better washing - This is when you get the climactic scene where factory workers and to chase down the scientist to destroy him and his invention. And believe it or not, this by real events. In the 1940s, the synthetic in stockings, and it was so durable that the products became There were literal riots when women tried to get their hands on them. When the manufacturers realized they had made the product too good, they didn't destroy the fiber, but they did follow the They instructed their to find ways to weaken the so people would have to buy more. Now, it seems like consumers against planned obsolescence. In the European union and there's proposed legislation to enshrine the right to repair. And these laws would force manufacturers to make it easier to They would have to provide So you could replace a battery at a third-party repair shop So if right to repair does become law, does that mean artificial obsolescence will be gone for good? Sadly, no, because there is one last thing manufacturers can use to make their products (instrumental music) Henry Ford released the the model T in 1908. And he envisioned it like a workhorse, an affordable tool that wouldn't wear out, a bit like the everlasting light bulb. In 1922 Ford said, &quot;We want the never to have to buy another, that renders any previous model obsolete.&quot; But by 1920, 55% of American Nearly everyone that And that same year, there was a small economic for both Ford and General Motors. In 1921, DuPont, the chemical over the controlling And they started experimenting with painting cars different colors, up until then, Henry Ford had said, you could have whatever color you like so long as it's black. It took a couple of years GM released their first And soon after, they introduced a trick that feels very familiar now. Each new year, they would introduce The goal wasn't just to make but to make their own cars encouraging customers to for shiny new ones. Years later, GM's head candidly discussed his role in creating what he called dynamic obsolescence. &quot;Our big job is to hasten obsolescence. In 1934, the average car Now, which was 1955, it is two years. When it is one year, we By the time he said this, most valuable company in of all vehicles purchased These days, the world's Apple, seems to have copied I mean, new styles every year, check, new special colors every year, check, marginal technological improvement, check. I mean, is this useful The inspiration for General from fashion where real So the only way to make to get out there and that last but one season. The trouble then is you run through these styles too quickly. And then what are you supposed to do? Well, just recycle the styles The iPhone also shows I mean, just look at initially rounded and and then they were rounded again and now, they're squared off. And how much do you want to bet that the iPhone 14 has rounded edges? I think the point is that there is no best, there's only different, which is apparently enough to remind us that we don't have the and so we have to rush The only type of obsolescence we should support is technological, which brings us back to the light bulb. In the last 20 years, from incandescent, which for 100 years to compact fluorescent. And now, to LED, these use and can last anywhere from Yeah, that's pretty bright. So you're more likely to sell your house than to have to replace an LED bulb that you've installed inside it. So we finally reached the point of what is essentially an (upbeat music) Hey, this video was sponsored by NordVPN. I am featured in an episode &quot;QI,&quot; it's a show I really like, and I'd highly recommend it if And it's on Netflix, but I feel like TV and film are still trapped in antiquated business models where they divide up the world that doesn't make a lot of sense now that information can flow Luckily using NordVPN, to the UK and watch whatever they like. If you're interested in seeing in different countries, on a two-year plan at Use code very Veritasium and using NordVPN, you can by masking your IP address. In fact, you can change your IP twice to cover your web traffic with NordVPN has a no logs policy, or share your private of the world's biggest companies So for privacy, when browsing and access to all the shows the world has to offer, go to nordvpn.com/veritasium of a two year plan and use code Veritasium to get one additional month free. And this is all risk-free with no Nord's 30-day So I wanna thank NordVPN and I wanna thank you for watching.