- Today, we're going to Great food for a special friend. Bit more expensive than usual, maybe. We're doing a beautiful veal dish. Very moist, very savory, Italian type of dish, an osso buco. I love Italian food. My wife and I are crazy and we do that at the house almost two, three, four times a week. We're going to start that which is a red onion and And what I have here, I have those tiny, and often, you know, throughout the year, I tend because they are relatively Cut them in half like I'm going to press the seed out of it. And that of course you keep for stock. Remember at home I take a one of those quart of milk, when it's empty, one of those carton, and I wash it out and put it And when I have a lot of leftovers, stick, like the skin or juice of orange, the stem of parsley, pieces of garlic, any of that Next time I do a stock, of, of milk there, cut right through with the knife and drop That's good economical cooking. So what we have here is about 12 ounce, to close to a pound of, of tomato. I'm putting this in there. And with that we are putting that beautiful red, usually they're a bit smaller than that, torpedo onion so-called. You can see torpedo, why shape of it. (knife clattering) And we about five, six ounces of onion in there. (knife clattering) And now that said, I would conventionally leave it all if, if the onion is a bit smaller than that. So here we have that classic accompaniment, (exhales sharply) I can feel them, but it's okay. And parsley. Now the parsley that I'm put in it, flat-, flat-leaf parsley, as you for decoration, it is also for taste. Now this is very high in vitamin C, also. Usually vegetable which or deep yellow are high in vitamin A, you know, and that very good here. So you see, basically, that's what you do. You could use a curly parsley but this one, I think, is So, with this, we're going And the dressing is very simple. I'm using a bit of, remember freshly ground pepper, a A bit of white wine vinegar, and I have about two at the most of white wine four tablespoon, maybe at the (whisk clinking) And I put a little bit of which is the Worcestershire sauce, about half a teaspoon or so. That give me quite an intensity of taste, and basically that's what we want to do to season our salad here. I will have more acidity in that salad, but the first thing, I want because it can get slightly wilted, especially for the onion, you know, it would have a better taste. (pan sizzling) Here we are, look how beautiful it is. And with this we are putting (glass clinks) preferably seedless orange. And what you want to do of the orange using a sharp, thin knife. And cut that, as you see, in one stroke removing of the skin, but the white cottony part underneath that we call the Okay, here, what we have here, (knife clanging) you want to cut that into slice. You could also toss that into your salad, but frankly, a bit better to put it around because it tends to break down. When we put this all absolutely gorgeous as you can see, very fresh looking, fresh taste, you know. And this would be, for me, a great start for the type of meal just for the taste more than the color, but the taste is very important. So what we do with this, You can serve it of course, or then, serve a little portion. You know, what you would want of the orange, probably underneath, or maybe even two slice of the orange, and serve your salad right on top of it with a nice crunchy country And with that first course now let's move to the second course, which is the osso buco. And the &quot;osso buco,&quot; as the in Italian, and &quot;buco&quot; means So this is the shank of the veal. And as you can see, you cut with your knife here all and after that you have to use a saw. But frankly, you know, the butcher do it with the electric saw and cut it into those pieces. There is no fat around. This is very gelatinous and very good for stewing, the best in my opinion. You have the bone still in the center. A piece of meat like that but remember that you will half of it bone, you know, So what we have now, you and I have put those here and there, and brown them a good 10, 12 minutes on each side. Look how beautiful those are browning now. They have been browning for a while. You can notice for example, that this one has much more bone, to a certain extent, than meat. But on the other hand, this one, probably more meat than bone, so you have to divide it, it's (meat sizzling) Give this one to the one who Give the big one to me. I will eat the whole thing, you know. So we have this in there now, to put the different vegetable here with that. As you can see I have leek here. Those are tiny, small leek, but it's fine. I have one medium leek, or And notice that I'm using basically all of the green from the leek. You know, there is nothing wasted. I don't like to cut all most of it is edible, and it gives you the proper color. With that, I have an onion here, (knife thudding) which, again, is going to be cut coarsely. You don't have to worry too those things are going So, the type of stew, you know, You will remember that the raw meat here, as I say, would give you about So the amount of cholesterol and fat that you have in that So I have all of those vegetable here. I have carrot. Carrot will give me some and also a beautiful color. So again, the carrot is going to be cut into little dice just like (knife thudding) Here we are, have plenty I have, in addition to that celery here, and herbes de Provence. I mean, if you can look you will notice that there and those are lavender in the herbes de Province sometimes. (knife clatters) Now, here, I have garlic, and I'm slicing the garlic very fine. Yeah, you can chop the garlic also. It's going to be a bit less and the celery. So all of those vegetable are going to go with the meat here, voila, to give you a beautiful color. After the meat has been as you know, I just turned the other one, so it should really brown a But, that tell you how to do it, you know, the herbes de Province here. And finally we want to put our liquid, and what I have here is (food sizzling) You will put there maybe two third of a cup and approximately the same amount of wine. You know, a dry white wine that we have, huh? A dry fruity type of wine. It can go from a cabernet any of those will be perfectly fine. And that basically all... I put a dash of salt on top of this here, of course, I put some at the beginning, and this is basically what Then you cover it. That has to cook for an hour and a half. And as you can tell this for an an hour a half I can see it's pretty tender now. (lips smacking) The second set of vegetables we are putting some orange and lemon rind, that I have here as well So, what I'm going to do, you can use one of those, if you want to do those long strip, (fruit grinding) of zest that you can put or you can use one of those grater to actually grate it Watch for your knuckle because it can hurt you, make you bleed. (fruit rasping) So, you want to be Something with, with lemon orange and lemon are going very fresh flavor to it, So you go all around a little more, maybe, than what I have here. Bang it this way. For the one that you have between the teeth here, just bang it (grater thuds) You can use a little brush This will go directly, I can actually put it because the tomato are (paper scrapes) So you want, you would at the end as I'm putting here. And this now has to come back to a boil and cook for another five, five minute or so while, (knife clinking) to develop a little bit of flavor. (knife clinks) So I can, again, cover this here, which would be the proper way. This one, actually, you've seen it, we don't need it, it's here. So, now while this is I'm gonna show you how to do the rice. The classic rice, which we are going to do with it, is done very simply with the, usually, Italian are going to which is a round rice from Piedmont, the north part of Italy, which is, which is the classic rice and it's very good, actually. So, in there we'll use something similar, a dash of butter, a little bit of oil. And what I have here, about the same size. That's a brown American rice, You see slightly grainish thing. This is a bit more, it has a lot of crunch because What I have in there is the onion, so I'll start to saute (food sizzles) And with this, the brown rice, I have some thyme leaves that I can actually put them directly on top of my rice, and a bit of saffron. Now the saffron, as you can see here, I have one ounce of saffron here. One ounce is a lot. An ounce of saffron can go from wholesale, approximately $30, one of those, So, you have to to know But what we use here is maybe a teaspoon and a half too. And those are actually the stigma, the stigma or the pistil And you need 40,000 crocuses And this is one of the So I have here all my (spatula clatters) I have the rice, the onion rather. So now I put my rice, saffron, thyme, and so forth. I'm gonna put a little and chicken stock. Now the chicken stock is twice, two, two and a half times, sometimes the amount of your rice, it depend on the, the type of rice. The brown rice will tend to than the white rice, you know. (spatula thudding) So now what you do, you and until it come to a While this is coming back to a boil, what we are going to do is And I have the osso buco here, which now is boiling And what I want to do is to And, actually, I have a little and the potato starch that I have here, I can put like a teaspoon. Some people may not What I do, actually, is to or white wine, actually, Why not put a dash of of And you thicken it. Stir it. The starch has to be diluted with liquid otherwise the as you put it in something hot, and you will end up having, you will end up having gnocchi which you don't want. So you can see that, off the heat. I'm going to shut my heat a little bit because at this touch the So you pour a little bit, you thicken, and you look whether you like it or not. Put a dash more, stir it, and do so forth. So this is the way of thickening, and I think that I have enough, (spoon clicking) enough thickening like that. You bring it back to a boil You always want a taste for seasoning. (Jacques slurps) I think it's delicious. So what we are going to do, now this is close to coming back to a boil. (lid clinks) I have one here that I want to show to you which has been already cooked. It has that beautiful yellow color that the saffron is going to give to this. And into this, I want to mix a little bit of Parmesan cheese at I have two, three tablespoon here, which we want to stir directly into this. And we are basically ready So what I have, I have (platter clatters) You want to put your rice, and when you serve a rice as a garnish, whoop, if I mess up the kitchen in the kitchen anymore. So, what you want to do is to Don't worry, because the and from the center you start this way to create a kind a kind of a, a rim all around. (lips smacking) And with this now, I'm gonna I can serve, directly, my osso buco here, which as you can see is totally beautiful. Maybe I'll show that side, And another piece, here, I I may put only three on top of my tray may be a bit too small for that. The next one, you can serve Serve the sauce all serve it on the side, the And if you wanna be a bit on top, just break it and And this is our beautiful What better finish for our great meal for a special friend than a trifle, that British concoction of pound cake, and clotted cream, and berries. However, we're going to Instead of the clotted cream, Custard doesn't really but the way we're going to do it, we're going to do a yogurt cheese. I have a 16 ounce, a pound of yogurt here. And what you want to do is to put it into that fine strainer. If the strainer is very you can put it directly in there. But I would probably or a coffee filter, and in your refrigerator, and you should get half of it, whey, half of it, cottage cheese, Remember that a cup of nonfat A cup of sour cream is like 490 calorie. A cup of heavy cream is 830, and a cup of mayonnaise or So big difference. So here, as you can see, I That way you can also eat I, I like it, myself, and what I do here, is just to empty this in there, you can press the filter. I put this one into a filter. You can see that the about the clotted cream if, you know, not quite cream cheese but very, between cream So, what we are going is laying down different trifle. Now, we put some pound that we are going to of pound cake, like And with a cookie cutter we We'll use everything, the we'll use, actually, one ounce so it's not much. In that particular one, what you do here, put a piece of plastic wrap in there. Put your piece of pound I have an espresso that I'm going to put a little bit on top just to mark that type of things. Then you put a little bit or yogurt, then the berry, Then this is when you use your trimming, put the trimming on top of it. You can embed them, push A little more coffee, again, to really soak the, the, the thing with it. And what else do we have? Yes, a bit more yogurt, (spoon thuds) more berry. And you finally finish up, you know, with a piece of pound cake, (lips smacking) And again, finish also with the thick, which were perfectly fine here. You bring that back on top of it here. (cellophane rustles) I could put it in the If you want to keep it warm, you know, in a thing like that. I don't have to do the whole thing for you but you realize what you're doing there by putting a little bit of this, a bit of yogurt. This is, layering it in a it's very nice! And you keep doing it, a bit more thing, to layer What we want to do with that is a sauce. And the sauce is very simple. I have apricot preserve here. The apricot preserve, I put you know, to dilute it a little bit. And some diced tan, nectarine, you know, to give it a bit of color. And if you want bit of of cognac in there. Cognac is always good. I love cognac. If you don't wanna put any alcohol in it it's perfectly fine, it'd be fine, or another In any case, our sauce is finished now. You can serve your sauce, of course, in a beautiful bowl like this, as I have here, directly at the table, or What I have here, I have a which have been in the which I wanted to show you. So what you have here, you See, you can even unmold because you can lift it up. It's encased in this. There is no, no problem. So, you can turn this (ramekin scrapes) Lift it up gently. You can see the apricot, or you can see the the coffee here on top. We want probably put a little bit of the sauce all around, which This one has been done in the And again, you may want to serve that at the table or pour a little And if you feel even a bit richer, (bowls clatter) serve it with a few more berry on the side, here and there, And this is the beautiful Now when you cook for a special friend, you want to take your time. You don't cook like that every day, but occasionally taking your time in the kitchen to cook This is what I have done today. Cooking a very Mediterranean type of meal with a chewy type of rice. We have still a lot of A lot of taste, for sure, of orange and red onion And then going to our osso buco And finally, you know, you finish with, you can have a salad in between, usually we always have a salad. And bread, of course, we and the Italian eat as as the French, too. And finally our dessert, but in that sense, very elegant, and I think very satisfying. With this, of course, You want to have a very good wine. And today, I have a Barolo, the north part of Italy, known as some of the from the Nebbiolo, the Nebbiolo grapes. This is a very pungent, very high in berry, very fulfilling wine. And I'm sure your friends love them, to love it. Maybe you tell them to bring I hope you enjoy my cooking today. I enjoy making it for you. Happy cooking. (gentle electronic music)