Hello everyone, And welcome to the Chateau de Fayolle in Tocane Sainte-Apre. I am delighted to welcome you to the So Chateaux show, to present to you this castle which is a jewel of the Dordogne region. With Florence, my wife, we have been owners for six months of this truly incredible castle, which has been during these last years, A little... Not abandoned, but in any case, There have been many break-ins, many objects have disappeared, some furniture, so there was a slow degradation that took place in recent years. And the project now is to preserve it, to safeguard it, and to carry out the necessary restorations to preserve this heritage. There you have it. And now, without further ado, I invite you to follow me, to discover the interior of the castle, which has exceptional characteristics. We're going to see a theater, we're going to see the big living room, the big dining room. Look at this great hall which is truly exceptional. There you go, now there are spaces, you will see, which are in their own juice, but cleaned by my wife and me. And other spaces that are really more than in their original state, that are in a state... left abandoned... It's a bit of the dark side of the Chateau de Fayolle, but you will be able to discover something extraordinary, who is the soul of the castle. Are you following me? Come on! So we'll start with the servants' floor. It was the second floor. It should be noted that during the castle's heyday, it was rather in the 18th century, beginning of the 19th century, We had about thirty servants who served the Marquis and Marquise. It should also be noted that the castle was built in 1766, by the third Marquis of Fayolle, who was Nicolas II of Fayolle. The first Marquis, Nicholas I, was crowned marquis by Louis XV, who erected the lands in 1724. We meet on the servants' floor. Imagine 30-35 servants who... we imagine life here, who lived and who all had a function, You see... So it's true that in recent years, it's been rather... In recent decades, it has even served as a granary. But you see, there are a whole bunch of elements, objects, accessories who remain here. And among all this we see vestiges of the life before, of 18th century life, of 19th century life. There you go, you see, in particular here, we are going to enter a first room, which, it is assumed, was a governess's room, since there are elements that are not found in the other rooms, Including the four-poster beds, the fireplace, a painting, or even the fabric that we see on the wall. So obviously it's in a state that's upside down. But what is very strong, it is to see, to imagine again the life that was present. Maybe 100 years ago, but it seems like yesterday. Behind, we can even see pieces of fabric that were certainly from the lace, which were their personal effects, which is there, which remains there. And we, until now, have not touched anything, we left everything as it was and it was really the desire not to touch anything, Put a bell on this castle which is so strong in life still present. Here we go, we go through different rooms. Different rooms which are obviously in a very bad condition, More... Especially everything that is structural, it is in good condition. We have all the reports, all the expertise. But it's true that it's quite impressive because over time, everything that is plaster... So there were leaks a long time ago, which have been dried up. Anything that is plaster that has fallen to the ground. It's true that it's impressive, but it's just aesthetic in fact. By the way, speaking of soil, We see the floor tiles. It's quite surprising to see this on an upper floor because it's very heavy. And actually, what I was taught because it surprised me the first time that I came here, It's actually that the floor tile, This floor was used as a fire break in the event of a fire. Same, there we will see, we can quickly look. There is a succession of rooms, With lots of clearance now, but there are colors that are quite crazy, quite incredible. It feels like we're in an escape game setting, with these remaining pieces of furniture. This life that was there not so long ago after all That. Look at the quality of the frames too. We are not at the level of the frames, but we are just below. And it's true that we were lucky to have a building, which was in a very healthy condition in terms of wood and roofing. As for the framework, there is absolutely nothing to touch. And so that allowed us to project ourselves into this project. Here, I'll take you to see other rooms, even if today they are no longer rooms once again. Here, for example, we see the... It was the photo lab, of the last marquis who developed his photos here. Here it is, with a darkroom. A fruit dryer. And there, a space that served as an office, certainly secondary, with more personal effects of the Marquis. Archives. Administrative archives. Some... Accounting documents. I think it was a bit of a retreat. Now, I'm going to take you to a fairly... Personally, I like it a lot since... This is what was called the store or the reserve, where there are a whole bunch of accessories that were which were changed, exchanged, altered depending on the guests, of the various guests or in the event of breakage, We came to collect the accessories and replace them here. Here we see all that remains, And in particular. So it's true that for the moment, we haven't looked yet, we haven't looked at all the content, We didn't explore all that. It is necessary, it is necessary to do it with a cool head, it must be done in a structured way. And we have these wallpapers that must have been copies. This is an incredible wealth for us. It has no financial value in the true sense of the word, But in any case a historical value, because it is the wallpaper that has been, at one time or another on the walls of Fayolle. There you go, now we've pretty much gone around from the servants' floor. So there are a whole bunch of rooms. We can't, we're not going to do them all. But you see, besides, all the doors have cat flaps. That's funny! That means there was... We can really imagine life on this floor. We will go down the service stairs. That's how it is. But very beautiful wooden staircase. We will visit a last space dedicated to servants, to the house staff who were there where the laundry was put. There you go. And why am I taking you here? It's just that, well, it's been searched and certainly. Here we are, we can still see the vestiges of the past, and I especially find it extraordinary to see... these rags which were folded, wrapped, which were, how to say, tied with ribbon, the little label. And that's something quite extraordinary to see. You see, we even had all the linen referenced. So there we still have the little notebook where the laundry was noted. We didn't touch anything, we left it open as it was. And we, once again, have the labels in the drawers. So these drawers, obviously, were opened by visitors, by urban explorers. But since we've been here, no one has touched the contents of the castle. And our personal promise, it is precisely not to touch it, or at least to touch it in a... how to say... Strategic, without distorting something that we have very, very very expensive, maybe more expensive here, who is the soul of the castle. And that is something we want to preserve at all costs. If you lose the soul of the castle, you lose the treasure of the castle. So here we arrive on the floor dedicated to the nobles, and to the family since it was a big house. Ultimately, it is a family castle. And we're going to go to a room that is extraordinary, which is the Empire room. Extraordinary for its wallpaper. Since we had a report, about a month and a half ago, on the origin of this paper which dates from the end of the 18th century. And there are said to be five copies in the world. Two in the United States, one in Germany and another in France. So there are nine sides of this paper, and they were screen printed in five copies, and hand painted here on the walls. There you have it. So this is truly an exceptionally rare wallpaper. And the anecdote of this wallpaper also which is on the walls of this room Empire, is that it was deposed at the beginning of the 20th century, to be sent to a gallery, a museum in New York to be exhibited, and placed back on the walls of Fayolle. So that too, just for the story, is something unique. And obviously, beyond the rarity of this paper, we have the aesthetics of this room, that's what... which ultimately goes without saying. There you go. You can see, there are even slightly trompe-l'oeil doors, who are in the... who are in the hop, which are in the walls and there are some on the four corners. Here, with a vestibule, with a bedroom, a room for washing. Finally a bedroom here and a bathroom. We pass there, in front of the museum. So today, it's true that there is more of this museum aspect in this room, but it was the family museum, With a whole bunch of paintings that were dedicated to the family, to the characters, to the illustrious people of the family, but not only. There were also many porcelain and earthenware items. So, that was a bit of all the family memories. And there, we reproduced some paintings, for which we were able to recover the visual. So there, we have in particular the first marquis, Nicolas, who in 1724 was able to obtain the Marquisate, Nicholas de Fayolle. Then there was the third Marquis, Nicolas II de Fayolle, who built the castle in 1766. Various marquises including.. There was Gerard de Fayolle, who was president of SHAP, The Historical and Archaeological Society of Perigord, President and one of the founders, And up to the last marquis, here Alain de Fayolle, who died in 2012. And the last one named Fayolle since he had an only daughter, Dominique. And no wires. Dominique, from whom we took over, who gave us this castle. And you can even see, for the record, her wedding dress. that she gave us. Come on, we continue on the family floor, with a second bedroom that can be... which is causing a lot of talk, especially on social networks, which is very visual, which is a room that is again quite unique. In any case, Fayolle is unique in a general way. The castle is unique, the family was quite unique, so there we have the blue room, with a decoration that is quite busy, but worth the detour, with 18th century parquet flooring from Perigord. And you see these two beds. You see, there are rails there. So I am often asked why? I too was wondering why there are rails here. But actually, imagine that it is for. Hop! It's to bring the beds closer together when you want to sleep two side by side. And what is very impressive about this castle. We, the first time we arrived with my wife and it did it to us every time, it's that there is a very immersive dimension. So there we cleaned the chimneys, We cleaned all the spaces that were full of cobwebs. Because the shutters were closed, to prevent intrusions. But there were ashes in all the chimneys. Many chimneys still have ashes, and there are fireplaces everywhere, in every room. Marble fireplaces. And really, it feels like everything has frozen. Time has stopped. And that is something very, very strong in this castle. The immersive dimension is really something we want keep. The idea is not to make a museum... something museum-like, But we want, we really want... There is something very strong that takes hold of us and we want to keep that. And all the visitors, all the people who come to this castle, have this feeling and it's really something unique. Here we go, we're going to leave the upper floor to go to the ground floor, and see spaces which are obviously living spaces, but that there, for the moment, which are still in their original condition but, that we were able to restore, that's a big word. In any case, clean. So, here we go back, we go back through the great hall, And we're going to go to the dining room. The dining room that is there. There you go. With a stove that was made on site, in earthenware and marble. A very large table that is modular. We can. So there, often, how much do we eat on it? There, it's made for... being comfortable for 20 people. But we can go up to 26 without problem, because we can extend it further. So that's it. It's crazy to be able to have a table the entire length, and to be able to make big meals. We can imagine the big evenings at Fayolle at the time. The great era was the end of the 18th century. First part of the 19th century. Until the Restoration period. There you go. But all of Perigord was rushing to come... to have big parties, to take part in the big parties at the Chateau de Fayolle. There you have it. And it was a place of exchange, a place of culture, an artistic place. In any case, it was truly a symbol, a symbol of Perigord. Okay, now, so here, we enter a place, in a room which is also Fayolle's treasure. From the castle of Fayolle. So there are a lot of. So, there were many things, exceptional elements in Fayolle, But that is one. There are very few rooms like this in castles. There are some that are in outbuildings. There, we have it within us, in situ, it is the theatre. This is what is exceptional. Well, obviously, it's the theater that is still in a state of very good conservation. So the curtain is missing with it. There is a pulley system behind for the curtain. But beyond that, you see, the gilding is still pretty good. and rather good condition. You see that the entire ceiling has been painted in gradient to represent the sky. And what's great is that the Fayolle family had the presence mind to put down these tapestries before leaving the premises for the protect against any damage or possible theft. And so we are on an extraordinary piece with this tapestry which represents the knight of Fayolle returning from the crusade. There you go. And there, obviously, it lends itself, This lets us imagine a lot of events in this theater. Which dates from elsewhere.... It is a theater that dates back to the time... before restoration, consulate exactly. So between 1799-1804. And this theater gives us access to another place. There you go, exceptional. There are only exceptional places in Fayolle, there are only pieces exceptional. The library. So there are many libraries in many castles, but there we have a very beautiful library with the smell, with some holes in the shelves, but with elements, books still quite interesting. There you have it, this is a very beautiful piece. And besides, we haven't touched the content yet, we just have touched some, some objects. We just opened some cupboards, but we didn't explore. But among the elements that we were able to discover like that, There, there was notably an illustrious character in the Fayolle family. There were many illustrious figures, notably among the marquises, but there was the brother of a marquis, early 20th century, who was, who was also called Alain de Fayolle, who was a graduate of Saint-Cyr and who died at the war, at the beginning of the war. And just for the record, who died at the front. He was, he had... The story is that we put on him, he put on his white gloves. He asked his troop, his troops, to go into battle with him. He got killed. So he had his Saint-Cyrien costume, his white gloves. There you go. And there we found his notebook, his logbook, his notebook, which he wrote about daily. So obviously it stops. It's very moving because these are strong moments that we have like that. Fayolle, it stops the day before his death. And when I told you about the white gloves earlier, He really had his outfit on. And lastly, there were friends who helped us clean a room, And we find a box. He said to me, come and see, we have this box. Are you interested? It was found on shelves. And so when you read on it, it says: Objects found in the canteen of my son Alain, killed in combat on August 22 (editor's note: June) 1914. So I open it and I see the gloves of the Marquis, or rather the Marquis' brother Alain. de Fayolle. And these are quite strong moments, moments which represent history, our history, the history of France. It has no value, necessarily financial, all that, But these are moments, these are moments of emotion and moments of life. And that's what people who come here can discover. These are moments, moments of emotion, because this castle is an emotion in itself. We're going to discover. There are a hundred rooms, there are a hundred rooms in Fayolle. In the castle of Fayolle. We will discover a last room which is rather empty but who is who is wonderful. This is my wife's favorite room, Definitely because there's pink! But it's the room. So we say it's the ballroom. It was a big show, but here it is, I think people were dancing in that room. That's why we like to call it the ballroom with an environment... really very very soft, with great moldings, tone on tone pink and an exceptional fireplace. Again, I say a lot exceptional, but everything is exceptional here, with cast iron on all walls of the chimney. At the bottom, on the sides and on the front. There you go. So we are... with Versailles parquet in very good condition too. We are roughly on a restoration project, but the luck we have is that... we have a structure, a structural work, even a secondary work which are in good condition. This castle, it was... The initial architect was Chauvin in 1766. And it was remodeled, in any case, there was a restoration program, at the end of the 19th century, in 1895, by architect Leon Drouin, who notably redid the north facade. We're going to go to the steps there in a moment. In fashion and who has who has redone a little comfort, who has restored comfort in living spaces, so in living spaces in the 19th century. And so we're on windows now. This is also what makes the castle special, 19th century, While on the south facade, we remain in a very 18th century style, with small crosspieces, small windows. There you go. And there we will access the steps which will take us to the gardens. on English gardens... There you go. So here we are on a breathtaking view, with unfailing serenity. There, we are facing English gardens, which were made in the 19th century by the Buhler brothers, who was a big name, renowned landscapers. They notably made the Tete d'Or park. And so there we see the characteristic, This is called the green flow, Which was a priori shaped by hand, which gives this rather unique roundness. And opposite, the forests, it was in fact a succession of groves, which are grouped together since they have not necessarily been maintained. And there were walking trails, what made English gardens. But we are really in a magical environment, and that's what we were looking for, to have an environment that could let us imagine a whole bunch of events, and welcoming people to a simply crazy place. And it is. It is the case here. You see this 19th century facade here, on the north side. With the three, the three coats of arms, with on the left the lion of the Fayolle family and on the right the wives of the three first marquises. And also above the F. by Fayolle, who is in ironwork, who is even on chimneys. There you go. We've seen the interior spaces, The house staff floor, some rooms and living spaces of the castle. And now as a bonus, we're going to go into the basements, and see places we're not used to seeing. So the cellars, that's what is often... which are subject to many fantasies, mysteries. There, I'll take you there, and we will have a little surprise too. You know that we are in Perigord and in Perigord... many places, castles. Have underground passages. And there I will take you there. Come on, let's go to the kitchen. So you have to know that this building was built, as is regularly the case for castles, on medieval foundations. The castle dates from 1766. But before that, there were even two castles. So the foundations are medieval, and we go into the kitchen. which was remodeled in the 19th century. Besides, it's not a classic fireplace. We saw with our architect.. We found the... the old chimney which... We can see the marks of the old chimney. Maybe we will rehabilitate as part of a program, so that these are the original chimneys. So what I'm going to do here is we're going to go to Cluzeau. Which is the underground passage of the castle. Le Cluzeau, you know that these are galleries dug into the rock limestone here. So here is a Cluzeau which was defensive. The defensive Cluzeau, therefore. That is to say that in the event of an attack, It was the case... Castles. Since you have to know that we were at the edge of the border English. And so we were attacked. Fayolle was regularly attacked by the English. And so the family came to the Cluzeau to escape the attacker. So this Cluzeau also has the entrance to an underground passage. This is where we only have the entrance and no exit. Because. So often, legends, stories, it is said that the underground goes to the village church or chapel. Well, probably that wasn't the case, but in any case we have the entrance to the underground and we think with our architect that it was at least okay even into the dry moats since there were dry moats in the medieval castle before. So, here we are on a Cluzeau and therefore underground passages which date from medieval times. So there was the entrance to the underground, which was walled up, then unwalled by explorers, certainly. And we see that nature has taken back its rights afterwards. Then, if we go a little deeper, If we go a little further into Cluzeau. There we can see a first room. Here it is. This was used as a bedroom in case of an attack. With. We can still see the remains of candles, which certainly served to illuminate here. And also here the loopholes in case of attack. If the attacker managed to get down to Cluzeau, because there was an entrance that was in the castle. So if he found the entrance, he could go that far. But there were loopholes to stop him. A door. A leftover door made of scrap metal. Which must certainly be from the period. And if we go a little further, hop! There we see... We see the arrival of the attackers. Finally, it was the arrival of Cluzeau. If the attacker got that far, he fell into a hole three and a half meters high. If the trap never closes. There were the loopholes to stop him. Who are who are here. Here we go. Let's take a quick look at the oven room. so there was both the oven and the washhouse. A washhouse that was heated with coal, certainly. And the kneading trough. Or what we also call the maie, This is a very, very big mess. But hey, let's remember that there were more than 30 people to support, feed here, in the castle. Just for the servants. So there, that's a calender. This is someone who has... Someone who donated to us. There you go. There are many gifts from people who are, since we took over the castle, who have offered to exhibit some of their works objects. And the calender is used for... We put the linen inside, in the middle of the two rolls, to wring it out and iron it. So there, we go down into the cellars. With plenty of coal left, since the castle's boiler room ran on coal. Here and there, several barrels. You should know that it was... The castle was a wine estate 150 years ago. Until the vine disease. Phylloxera. And so all that stopped. But there are still the remains of the wine-growing estates with many bottles, barrels. We have a fairly gigantic cellar with this height under the vault, still rather very rare. And there is no humidity. There really is a space, a really healthy place. Because I honestly think the castle was very, very well designed. There are vents, a little, a little everywhere. And what makes that 250 years later, we are still on a very solid structure. And very healthy above all. There, we see. So that, that was, those are walls that were built in the century last, not so long ago. But we can still see all the bottles that are stored. So, it seems that the champagne was flowing freely at the castle. And good champagne! Some small bats. There are some everywhere in the various uninhabited spaces. And that means the air is healthy. And back in the great hall. So, we didn't talk about that, but that was the boiler room, Who supplied the different spaces of the castle with... we see these grids, which were the heating grids. Grills in fountain. One was taken away, unfortunately stolen. There you go. But it's a bit... besides, it dates from the same period, than the Opera Garnier in Paris. It's a bit of the same heating system. There you go, there are some everywhere in the rooms on the ground floor. There you go. So we're getting close to the end, of this visit to the Chateau de Fayolle. Visit of the spaces as is, Once again, it's only been six months since we had the keys to this wonderful castle. We are really very proud to be able to take up the torch, to the Fayolle family. You should know that the family had owned these lands for 900 years. owner of the land. And we, today, with Florence, my wife, the project, the idea, is to pass the baton in fact. We are only passing on the baton, but especially the time we are here, to be able to restore. Participate in the restoration of this castle. And so for that, it is to deploy soon a large cultural program event, which will be open from April to October, here in Perigord, in Tocane Saint Apre, with events of course, visits, But also great immersive shows, whether it is the Marquise's ball, whether it's the giant egg hunt, whether it's concerts, theater of course, With the play. And we also have a separate project that is close to our hearts, because we really want the whole territory that knows very well Chateaun is participating in this project. It's about creating a big immersive show with volunteers, who will be actors for the duration of the show, for two weekends each summer. Because for us this project must be the responsibility of an entire territory. It is the history of France, it is the history of a territory, and the locals are very fond of it, There we were able to see it in Perigord, from their heritage. And so it must be the place for everyone, here at the Chateau de Fayolle.