- In this video, I'm gonna be talking through my recommended Now this is a technique that I think will be a You may want to vary from this, you might want to do other things. I would recommend exploring but this is a technique designed to do sort of the least to fantastic coffee A technique designed to whenever you brew coffee So let's start at the beginning with the recipe or ratio and this, immediately, has I'm using a light roasted coffee and I like a high extraction here that will give me quite a So I'm using 55 grams per liter or in this brew: 11 grams Darker roasts, you may not want to extract to the same extent so I might recommend 60 or 65 grams a liter and not extracting quite as much from it. In terms of setting up your Pull your plunger out, put a there's no need to rinse pop it in, lock it in and place it on top of whatever you're gonna brew into. You don't have to brew into a carafe. You can brew into a mug, cup, whatever you like as long 'cause you're gonna be Now, let's talk about grind size. For this brew, I'm actually finer that I would even So getting a little bit closer to that kind of nearly espresso range. If you're using a medium you may not want to grind this fine. It will certainly increase your extraction and strength but it may not taste good. So there's no one answer I'm gonna load this and I'm gonna boil my water. Now, one more note on water temperature. Again, with lighter roasts, you can go all the way up to boiling and I would recommend that, however, for medium or darker roasts, I would drop my temperature For a really dark roast, under 90 degrees Celsius, For a medium roast, 90 to if you have a Start your timer then you're Try and get the coffee as you pour and if it's all and get up to 200 grams or Now, you don't have to like this one, a gooseneck kettle. You can use a regular that you boiled on the stove; It's just about getting the water in and getting all the coffee Obviously we're gonna we're not gonna press on the and we're just gonna wait for two minutes. Here's one I started earlier. When you get to two minutes what we're gonna do is start to swirl and it's gonna be a very gentle swirl. Make sure that you're and the base of the unit and That's it. You're not trying to You're just trying to gently that's formed a crust down so it starts to sink to the bottom and then you're gonna and then you're gonna start to press. Now when it comes to pressing, I would recommend being relatively gentle. You shouldn't be leaning into this. You should be able to do it comfortably with your body away from the AeroPress. So not pressing too hard at all. Press gently, press evenly and once you've waited 30 seconds you're gonna press all the way until you've pressed every of this press, down into (coffee dripping) For a 200 ml brew for this grind size, that takes me about 30 seconds. Once you've pressed pull that'll help prevent Obviously you can clean up give it a rinse, give it a and you've got, I hope, Now, if it's not a great cup of coffee, again, it's gonna be the grind size and maybe the temperature If you've got too much chances are you might or brewed a bit hot for the If you've got a bit of sourness in your cup, well, the opposite. Feel free to get to maximum temperature and try grinding a little bit finer. Now this, I think, gets you to a great cup of coffee in the simplest, with no additional unnecessary steps but it's not the one way So down below, I've linked to a bunch of other AeroPress recipes. If you want something that your regular brew but if you wanna play and with an AeroPress which I then I would recommend checking Explore those recipes. They're all linked in the but now I wanna hear from you. How are you making your What do you like? What don't you like about the AeroPress? Do you still have questions? Because don't worry, there's We'll be looking at both accessories and all of the filtration but, for now, I'll say thank I hope you have a great day. That is good, that is, that is good. I mean, I don't know why I'm surprised.