Hello. Discussing and the gathering of several hundred at Los Alamos in the mid 1940s The physicist Freeman Dyson in which theoretical physicists were given and their theories into a concrete reality economic resources of the world's In exchange, they were compelled to the world's greatest military power, As a result of that devil's bargain, thousands of people are standing by That was our deal with the devil. We've been living with it for almost thousands of people standing by, If the necessity occurs. The prospect was first among two nuclear powers belligerence, a number Now, most of us destructive potential. We hear about the presidential football With the missile launch codes in North Dakota, flying nonstop under the water, What very few of us know is what an elaborate and terrifying system the United States has built in nuclear war, a scenario this little known and failing deterrence It is a shocking and fascinating read and upon publication, an essential text of where and what the United States Now, as you know, if you wish to ask any during our talk, please during our talk and I'll address them in Annie Jacobsen It's great to be here. Thank you. Well, What led you to this book and perhaps in leader? So as a national security reporter I write about war and weapons, Six previous books. Imagine the number of my sources, And how many of those individuals you know, prideful chest swelling, my life's work was dedicated to preventing nuclear World War three. And during the last administration, all, I got to thinking what would happen What would happen if prevention fail? And I took that question upper echelon national security sources And I asked them exactly that. And and that was the impetus And of course, John now deceased, who left behind a memoir that gave a tiny glimmer of what a nuclear war plan would actually be like, jealously guarded secrets And I was able to springboard And of course, in the present moment, it involves satellites and other players Rebell never envisioned The system has grown and grown and grown. You don't take apart older parts, while the warheads have cut down somewhat, Your your conclusion seems to be you're and the system will just almost feed Correct? That was one of the first of many jaw this book was that nuclear It is built upon this idea And to have found, as I did, saying to a group of sort of insiders you know, And that unraveling is what I portray It's one by one by one. And I'm talking about seconds and minutes of action, not days and weeks. That was really what got me immediately thinking about how to frame the book as the ticking clock scenario that it is. As you know, It's over. You went to the spoiler? Yes, But you know, we have to go, right. Because it's in the end, And that's the shocking thing. Essentially, and radioactive drift, but undoing perhaps 50,000 years of human civilization in. Yeah, 72 minutes. 72 minutes is sort of when all the last Yes. And well, we'll keep going. That's where essentially that's Yeah, right. There is no tech. There's no telling how anything could happen after that, even nuclear winter was only thought No one knows what the real thermonuclear weapons And yet you spend many pages on those effects, And you thank or acknowledge interviews with dozens, scores of people involved in the system are two questions. One, as best we understand it, how many other countries have systems Well, this all began with two superpowers, The system was set up to sort of pointing their missiles being don't And that's how we get mad, But as you correctly point out, nine nuclear armed nations. That we know of. That well. I would be relatively certain I mean, there are an enormous number people working on these issues in I always remember to mention They have a team that puts together And so they keep track of the warheads, There is, of course, an exception, the incredibly dangerous And that is, of course, North Korea Yes. Are in the context of mutually assured destruction. It's built on game And at this point, those systems with nine different players And if one of them is a history it's hard to say That's right. I mean, it's the mad King logic that nuclear command and control system just how forthcoming were with how tenuous And I'm talking about former secretaries I'm talking about, who would be in charge of nuclear war That is the protection which is another absurd concept I mean, it's just one shocking situation I was I was rather shocked that says you can protect your family And I looked it up. It was published in 2019. This isn't some comical 1960s You're absolutely right. And if you look and of course, I reproduce that in the book because it And that is one of the most horrifying there is no way to survive a nuclear war. It it no matter how it starts, it And so all of the things that are said you know, kind of a terror in the event of a nuclear war are absurd save you in one situation You know, go into your basement Well, it depends where that blast is And these, of course, are the details I think horrific specificity, because the point of all to have conversations about all of Well, as a reader, You checked both boxes. Don't worry. Let me ask you as a reader, I'm with it for a few hours. As a writer, you're with it for a year. What's it like to be in this bureaucracy 20 or 30 years inside planning or actually acting in nuclear war scenarios? What's it like to spend your life silos or bases or hidden command centers across the American prairie? Well, I talked to a lot of people, as you know, But really, people that are in charge of advising the president in the moments after detection that a nuclear missile because that really that's really what It's the fact and by the way, most people do not know an intercontinental ballistic takes just 30 minutes to get from one side And so the clock begins ticking then. And the president must make a decision with nuclear missiles It's a 30 minute trip, but less than a second into its journey, setting in a concatenation across space and the American continent. You're absolutely right. And so it's like you reverse engineer to realize this is why We have these incredible space based infrared satellite systems. They're astonishing with their technology. Think about it. They can detect the hot rocket from any enemy armed nation within a fraction of a second. This is remarkable. And this is so that the president his counterattack in minutes afterward. And that's where you begin to realize. I think certainly you asked me Right. You know, all of the people 24 seven 365 are acutely aware that deterrence is terrific if it holds. Their job is relatively simple. It is just rehearsing what might happen. But if nuclear war begins, it becomes a sequence of events. A follows. B There is no divergent from that pathway to apocalypse, and that is what is so appalling and remarkable Understand ending, particularly present time of nuclear saber rattling, which astonishes me every day. I was also seeking to understand this the mental state of the people who are in this. Are they proud? Are they terrified? Do they feel like kind of devilish and lunatic All of the above. In my experience as a reporter, many of my sources are in their eighties And this is because I believe that as one gets older, and you have been involved in a very long career and we're talking And then I spoke of in my opening thoughts having to do with reflecting back about where we are about a person to the national security apparatus who thought, we had it discovered Right. And so to answer your question, I got very emotional. People. People were very emotional with me I mean, former Secretary of Defense now, I think he's 85. I mean, has dedicated his life Former Secretary of Defense Bill Perry, Both of these individuals said to me that they were that what I was doing Panetta even said the American public what an interesting idea You know, we've got this covered. Trust us to wait a minute, wake up and pay attention. Something that's got to change I mean, that is the shocking thing They could to some extent. Do you think it's just too horrific the the larger We didn't dwell on this. You know, that is a great question. And I think it has to do with access and I think it has to do with like comes to mind or transparency Nuclear weapons the fancy crowd with bow ties. You know, And I, you know, I wrote Nuclear War a scenario to read like fiction. It is nonfiction. It has been called dystopian nonfiction. I wanted it to be easy to read like all of my books I write for the layman. I write for the regular people. It doesn't mean I'm or the very smart PhDs in the university. But really, my heart who wants to understand a little bit more, about these concepts, I spoke at the beginning about Los Alamos and the ironic nature of brilliant people being so caught up with their ideas not really thinking of what permanently And you you illustrate that very well when you talk about some of the scenario the 1960 prediction that 275 million people will be killed across Russia in a nuclear strike and I'll quote you, the Pentagon had paid 1300 people fifth of the people on Earth Does anybody involved in that process just how crazy all that is, or are they And we know from that section that you're referring to, how did we get here, you know, build up to begins in the first fraction of the second But to your point, and to realize that once upon a time, the admirals and generals who were doing this planning the nuclear war plans, they believed that nuclear war They would, of course, have the bunkers won't even be able to withstand But at the time, sort of ignorance, solid, determined. It is true because I say so attitude I certainly read between the lines And yet that's the legacy I mean, you know. Like like any good consultant, that, okay, 275 million people will die if you're off by 2%, But what I mean, it truly is madness. And yet and yet. So now the policy is not fighting It's don't have a nuclear war But as I begin to point out in the book, is that the world is just one one technical mistake away because once the missiles start flying and again, you know, no one is really thinking nations are thinking as America tries in a nuclear counterattack And you have all kinds of technical, you know, problems I relay in the book that also really make I mean, one of them, for example, is, because Russia alleges to have So Russia's early warning space satellite system. And multiple defense scientists, born defense scientists told me that the Tundra system is deeply flawed. The best worst example is that the system can mistake sunlight for hot rocket exhaust on a missile. And so the tundra system sunlight Yes. And quality of communication varies That's one of the interesting dimensions quite plausibly a missile silo in Wyoming and he notifies Moscow a missile has left the silo. They're going to just act on that. They're not going to listen to anything But let's move into the scenario, is a very plausible And let's let's move to the scenario Well, of course, the detection of the nuclear And things moved very quickly thereafter what most people don't realize that they pump data from space command bunkers And these three bunkers are famously It's made many appearances in movies. There's also one beneath the Pentagon. It's called And there is a third bunker Strategic Command, the most powerful nuclear agency The way it was described to me about these The Cheyenne the national command center beneath of nuclear war, And those three centers, the commanders, within minutes of detecting the missiles and the targets that would be and prepares to tell the president begins as I report in the book, in the book, the president has a six minute window. And listeners may ask, well, Are these from Annie Everything is sourced in the book, too. Like if you go into the notes, you can see Sometimes I quote people directly, to make a decision comes from Ronald Reagan's memoir. And it's 6 minutes in which, well, In this case, he's in the White House And he is hustled for one room to another. And he's given the football he's trying to figure out what happens And meanwhile, the missile is flying. Take it from there. Well, to report that part of the book, what would happen with the president But as I do, having written and so I interviewed Secret Service of the Secret Service, members assault team that would, you know, the to learn that while the military is now in this six minute window intent on getting launch orders team is intent on doing their job, Their job is to save the life to protect his life no matter what. And so what they want to do is in conflict And I, you know, relay that in the book, And ultimately Secret Service They would whisk the president off and take him off to the commands, colloquially known as Raven Rock, military National Military Command Center because almost everyone in Washington, target in what's called a bolt And so all systems are set up and alternate command center Just for viewer contact. Just 6 minutes is about five times We've been talking four or five times It's an exceptionally short And yeah, let's move to the targets, targets here that have extremely different The targets that are attacked you're referring to, correct? Yes. So we have the we have the one megaton thermonuclear bomb in the beginning of the unfolding and then we have a sneak attack launched ballistic missile And I did this having discussed the worst case scenarios with national security experts, sit around and worry about these things And of course, the technical aspects of it are all sourced through engineers And we do know that North Korea does I mean, some people say something that could actually happen meaning that North Korea could get By the way, Russia and China do regularly. And I show a document in the book for the Defense Department And so the second target in Los in California. And, you know, this was a hypothetical situation. It's called Rule which says you never strike and so I was thinking about a rogue nation going way outside And then, of course, we began to see repeatedly Russia using, against the zapper and nuclear power plant, hypothetical scenario Yes, that was two years ago, not even. And that facility has lost power due to, you know, warfare in the vicinity. And that kind of horror the devil's In-a-row, Ask for the title, which Fukushima. It's six extremely fraught minutes, not not just inherently, whether it will hit New York And the president may need to leave. And now there's this threat on Diablo What does the White House And again, that was a really interesting series of reporting with sources to discern in the scenario You know, who was STRATCOM commander Barbara Starr of CNN interviewed him And he said, that if they send one nuclear missile, If they send two, we send two. And I source that in the book. But taking this question Bruce Blair, now deceased, on the kind of command and control systems if North Korea launched one nuclear weapon the response would almost certainly be 82 nuclear weapons. In response, in order to take out And so that is what happens And then I explain how, another jaw dropping moment, that America sends ICBMs out of nuclear, you know, out of our in the Midwest that you referred to that make up 50 of those 82 warheads But what I learned is ICE. American ICBMs do not have enough range to fly directly to North Korea without overflying Russia. And that is a disaster waiting to happen. Imagine two nations as Russia and the United States are right you know, wanting Russia are just going to fly over their country, That becomes an apocryphal situation, And and, of course, underneath this, engine of diplomacy slash bureaucracy. And it's imperative that in this 6 minutes, in addition someone has to tell the Russians, hey, it's not it's not you. We're just going for Pyongyang here. But how does that work out in your You know, another fantasy is that that work flawlessly And the best example I could report was, you know, early on in the Ukraine it was in November of 2022. Listeners may recall a what turned out to be an erroneous report of a Russian missile strike in Poland. And so that is a Nadeau Country. That is an Article five situation. It's very, very dead, Nonetheless, it took General Milley, then chairman of the Joint more than 36 hours admitting that he had been yet unable Mark, when we consider that nuclear war the idea of 36 hours to get in touch with Russia, And in your context, they are targeting Washington and flees for a supposed safe location. That's right. Unfortunately. come on. We can't give everything away. Okay. Unfortunately, communications We'll put it that way. I mean, and. At some point, the comedic it's use them or lose them And that's sort of a crazy sentence that exists in the nuclear Use them or lose them. Thank you for remembering that. Right. And here's another one Escalate to de-escalate. I mean, what does that even mean or what What that means, you know, kill to live. It is really an a cause. This is all happening so quickly that everything unravels exactly like that. STRATCOM commander said it would. And it is in addition to being a somewhat cockamamie system or a a more fragile system It is durable in many other ways. And one of our viewers asked earlier, with the weapons or the bunkers begins to commence, play on many levels as well? That's right. I mean, the submarines that are not called for nothing. The United States has 14 Ohio class nuclear armed nuclear powered submarines. And they're technically what are called even if an enemy were to take out missile silos, They are going around the oceans, but a good many of them. And the shocking part is that they take just 45 minutes to launch from the presidential order. The ICBMs take even less 60 seconds. One of the common quips is But these submarines are have, And they can take out an entire nation. And so, you know, the idea of redundancy is a concept that is into nuclear command and control. But a synonym for that is is absurdity, because at a point to the listeners question, Yes. The submarines would most likely continue to move around under the oceans after you know, Going just as Russia They're patrolling the coasts You spend a lot of time in the book talking about the realities of the blast, the blast center, And I think it would be useful on land in Washington, D.C., and then in the destructive power of a What does one blast look like and how much firepower is there Some you mentioned 14 warheads. What does that mean? You know, the centerpoint of a nuke thermonuclear weapon is 180 million degree blast of light. It is so incomprehensible and everything incinerated. Everything is incinerated. People turn into combusting carbon It's that's a full mile radius of fire. And I describe in the book in the rings going out in sort of five And again, These are from documents that have been compiled based on their facts, bombs in 1945 and then becoming, you know, expanded and elaborated during the fifties when the US was doing atmospheric West weapons testing, compiling nuclear effects on people and on things. And to answer your question the submarine has used So you can think about these 20 Trident Each one is served. I mean, this is such nuclear geekdom, to know about because your of dollars And Merv stands for. Multiple And what that. Multiple. Multiple it means that you know it's it's and interestingly this technology warhead was meant to sort of trick any interceptor missile because the warhead releases and then release and are able to travel Let's just cut to it. Not multiple warheads, That's right. Okay. So that's right. Not 20 tubes, 20 tubes in which there are each multiple nuclear bombs. How many nuclear bombs in total About 99 zero. Yeah. Each one my God. Each one. I mean, you could really geek out on Because it changes. But like, let's say, a 300 kiloton warhead Hiroshima was 50 kilotons. Think about the degree of power that the order of magnitude on the. Okay, so cycling back to the book itself we counterattack on North Korea. The Russians let go their full fire and fury. do what we're trained to do Correct. There is no stop. Nobody scales back at that point. Right? There is no there is no rational system Just take a day. Right? They just go. And let's stop for a minute to discuss, Right. Because again, as I mentioned, nuclear war plans are jealously guarded secrets. I refer to a rare declassified wargame from 1983 called Proud Prophet, and I reprint a couple pages and people might laugh or cry because they think they will realize this I mean, it's 95% black. There's just a few words per page. But what the declassification of that war game a certain professor from Yale named Paul to speak you know, crossing his security, And what he said was this. He said, no matter how nuclear war begins, whether it involves whether it involves tactical weapons if China gets involved no matter what, And that is most definitely Yes. Not to give too much away, The world doesn't end. And then we have nuclear winter. Well, that's an interesting note, in fact, because the war is largely China may get involved in this. It's quite likely they might. But essentially India, Australia, Pacific Islands, It doesn't really matter, does it. By the bombs? They're not affected. Right. But what happens? There's a secondary effect of nuclear. First, there's the blast, first then there's the blast, and the, you know, destroying, you know, pushing winds, just destroying everything, And then there are And the mega fires grow so strong. And with hurricane force winds, These are a hundred square mile areas of mega fire. And imagine that times 1000. And imagine that in the United States, And then imagine PS330 billion of soot because that's what climate And this goes back to the nuclear Winter theory The five authors, and Sagan's young student at the time, Now, Professor Toon was a source for me in the book, conversations about how initially in 1983, tried to make the claim and they were very effective in doing that people still ask that question. You know, isn't that Soviet propaganda? Well, it's certainly not. And, you know, humble as they were, the original authors conceded 1983 computers were what they are to their project projections They thought it would last Well, state of the art climate modeling nuclear winter would last And so to your point the breadbasket of the world, you know, from from Iowa to Ukraine, bodies of water become covered in large I mean, there's a temperature And so agriculture fails. And so, yes, to answer your question, a lot of other nations are not involved They had they didn't start it. They don't have nuclear weapons. They weren't involved. But this is where our calculations 5 billion people will die. Yes. It's it seems like I mean, you can forget about civilization life will go on But humans would probably not be for a very, very long. It's absolutely right. And, you know, in my interviews he we talked about how FEMA prepares for asteroid strikes. They prepare for nuclear war. These are called low probability, high consequence events. And so when you think about it, is the only event that could end the world could end civilization in a few hours. You really have to wonder why aren't Because we really do exist Many people are interested Was there anything jaw dropping, that wasn't in the book, We've destroyed the planet. What else you got? I mean, literally, it's like people who have read the book you know, I thought to myself, Dropped the jaw dropping bomb here. There's still all these pages left that's just the beginning. You know, it's one ridiculously impulsive. Well, true fact. After the next, we. Didn't that knock out Then save it for later. Folks. Read the book. So. And you all. And another thing I'll say about the imagine the kind of heat this is. This is I can say it's not in the book. Imagine the kind of heat that I faced from fact checkers, and drill down these hypothetical situations That's what was really alarming, to be able to multiple source what happens and to be able to cut through reporting that you can see once down on the facts and go to the generals, you can see, my goodness, And I'm speaking about the MP you know, different elements of the press one issue as, that's So we're not going to report that. And then the other side says, that's So we're not going to report on that. And people have not been reporting because people need to know the facts potential, you know, multiple catastrophes Another viewer asks now that the book is out, You've been talking about it. You've been doing a lot of interviews. People ask you questions. What might you have done If you could take it all back and start? Well, it's only been out for a few hours, You know, I what I reported is right But that's a terrific question you want to keep your ear to the ground for the for the future. Often when the paperback comes out, or an afterword to Exam to examine exactly Excellent question. Yes, I would be interested be inside a silo. For how long is a rotation? How long do people work on those? Do people spend their lives Usually, in my experience, at least Yeah, it's kind of like a not a great job. I mean, I you know, with all due respect to the people who do it the most of the people that I interviewed And then, you know, for example, who I use as a source who is a native there as a very young officer Right. Yeah. It's got to obey the rules. Got to be by the book. A lot of the equipment is aging. Sounds kind of like a bureaucratic job, You know, someone asks, What about I? Do you see a guy coming into this system? And would that be a new unknown? Unknown. So many of the nuclear war, command and control systems are, So, for example, all the missiles are and Yeah. As you can read in the book, the sub not by the high technology the ancient form of navigation. And this is to keep them I interviewed first cyber chiefs And, you know, cyber in our society in terms of threats, but it's separate right now. It is distinctly the in a separate lane So let's turn to what might be done, because you hint in various places in the book, Steps could be taken. What is the realistic other scenario in which The hopeful part of it, So when I was a young high school student, there was a television and it portrayed the nuclear war between the United States And you know, not to air it because it was so horrific And people got very upset. A hundred million people Me, but also a very important person, And he wrote in his memoirs in his journal as president His words and remember before this, Reagan was all about, He believed in the arms race. He was part of it. And after seeing the day after, he came to a different conclusion, the Reagan reversal among insiders, he reached out to President Gorbachev and through a series of communications in Iceland, they agreed that nuclear war was madness. And because of their talks, high of nuclear weapons was 70,000. In 1986, 70,000. Today we have 12,500. And so you might say that's 12,500 But it's certainly a step in the. Right course in the right direction. Absolutely. Unfortunately, and a perfect shield several trillion dollars later How effective is that nuclear shield? You know, the way I read that situation is Reagan really backed down his impact, because of how he felt At least that is the interpretation of he was very pro SDI before that. You know, the problem with trying to intercept nuclear missiles, the ground or from space, And we're kind of out of times But, you know, what happens tries to go up against an incoming missile Little extra time, what happens? Okay. Well, when you consider so, you know, and I couple a year, two or three, and I mentioned that I was working on this Annie, we have interceptor missiles, And, you know, I didn't want to tell them I figured I'm going to wait But that is a fantasy. We have 44 interceptor missiles. Russia alone has 1670 We have approximately the same. We actually have a little bit more. And so how are 44 missiles? And by the way, of between 40 and 50% only. How are 44 missiles of a thousand or more nukes? We just got a late Ed question Okay. In the case of a nuclear war, does every country with nuclear weapons Does Britain jump in? Does France jump in? Does India jump in? And that is the question that might have I mean, I don't say that in jest the real point at 74 minutes, 72 minutes plus, is that and when all the electricity you we will know how would you now. Right. It's just darkness on every sense so it would be depends on how they game it. Pakistan and this has already happened. Who knows? The commander of STRATCOM, when he met General Keeler, and we were discussing and the nuclear arsenals that they had He said to me, and this is a quote, in the next couple of hours. Yes, absolutely. There might be some healing, earliest. Civilization, 5000 years, humans gaining speech, 50,000 years. You know, social interaction probably Correct. Which is why I have a coda in the book You know, after doing these 24 minute And, you know, there's now, UNESCO's site in southern Turkey And I interviewed one of the two architect that day in the night in 1993 And it's some 12,000 years ago. And it was a lost civilization until 1993. And it's sort of re writing history's in terms of man, in terms of science, because it was a society of hunter And yet they built this if you will, kind of like a You can see photographs in the book. You can see them online go back later. But it really got me thinking, looking at those photographs, to your point about this idea tens of thousands of years to the point a technology, a system of technology And it reminded me of the Einstein quote where he was said to have been asked, And he said, I don't know what weapons but World War Four will be fought Absolutely. In our few minutes left, about the writing of this book. You mentioned two or four years ago and working on it. What's it like to stay with a subject You know, I, I actually am really And so I have no problem and finding the details that I can, because I really believe in the sort Like he's so famous when he left his where he refers Right. But my more favorite part of that speech is what comes next, citizenry can balance out all of that. And that's always what I'm here for, is to become more aware And that gives me a sense of hope I must ask, when you were last with us you were here for your book, Surprise which was roughly a story of America's military assassins. It's more than that, but you have a very interesting niche Did you always want to be a writer of this sort? I did not intend. You know what comes to mind ride the horse in the direction And that's just. That is my journey, I suppose. I find myself whose lives are very different than mine, But nonetheless, we're all Americans. Yes. And they. They work out and perform violence How do you feel about them as a group now? Well, my job is is again, to report And I do it. I my aim always is to do it in with the least opinion and the most sincere relaying of story. And that must be how I'm built, to be the easiest manner Because I listen to work to convey the information Of course I come I really much prefer to write books all walks of Earth, of all sides of the isles, plural, you know, take away than I feel like Well, It's extremely well reported. It's extremely authority And I encourage everyone at the local bookstore gets it into your hands, a very, very necessary part of our lives take us in a more positive direction. Well, If you'd like to watch more programs efforts in making virtual in-person please I'm Quentin Hardy. Thank you and take care, everyone. Thank you. Thank you.