Hey guys, Toby Mathis here and today you can take to build a passive Right If you follow these rules, it's that you're going to be very, very wealthy It's all about buying assets Assets, put money in your pocket. Liabilities, So the easiest way to tell is an asset or a liability is you If it's not doing anything, If it's taking money out of your account, If it's paying you, whether it be whatever it is, if it's putting money And if we use that very, then I'm going to start asking you certain items, like is a car, And if you start playing the Depends look at you really funny. I'm going to do this right now. It's a liability period. RVs, boats, are assets and put it on My furniture is a nothing. It's neutral, right? It's not. But it is definitely not an asset. My that rental property I don't know. I'd have to look at your bank statement. Is it put it is it cash flow positive to operate? 2007 2008, we had this massive real estate Because people are buying They'll be rental properties and That was the cost of the debt, cost of the real estate taxes, the repairs, the maintenance, all that stuff added up to being more In some cases you couldn't even rent it. So the whole idea is figuring out Once you can do that, then we can start What's a passive asset? Well, I am a tax attorney, and I call them infinity income types. In other words, they never go away. They continue to keep getting paid. So long as you're involved royalties, dividends, interest. And I'm going to give you a fifth And it specifically on writing covered rents, royalties, dividends, interest, short term Those are the five that I focus on. And we're going to talk about two of them The first two is going to be a big step But if you start doing it and you do it you will get absolutely So let's talk about this rule number one So let's just break it down. I call it the 7030 rule. And this is the you should have been doing Right. 7030 means live off of 70% Take the other 30%. I will write this out, but I'm just going you take you live off of 70 and then that 30% that's left over, If you cannot, then we'll talk But you got to do some good things. There's this little thing called karma out there, What I'm saying is a tax attorney net worth, returns Literally, it's about 10,000 and I've looked at over 100,000. When you are looking at those returns, And I'll tell you what So 10% forgiving, 10% pay down debt. This is extra payments on your debt bucks a month towards a credit card bill. This is hey, what's the extra? What's 10%? Take home. Great. Take 300 bucks and pay that thing off. The other trend I noticed consistently on the ultra The only debt they like is In other words, you can I can borrow money The asset is paying the debt, not me. You never want to be paying debt. You personally want to get out of debt. That was I don't want to have I don't even want a mortgage on my house. I don't want to have debt. But if my business or if I have an asset that's paying for itself, I'm In other words, but that rental property is paying off any mortgages on it I'm okay with that. But we're going to take that 10%. We're going to pay down our personal debt. The other And I know there's people out there I barely make it, etc. I know you're going to work your ass off and you're going to either increase or you're going to cut back on expenses that's not nailed down in your house And I quit buying stuff that you can't afford and you're I know I've been there, started out 400 square foot studio. I had a child in a 400 square foot studio. Guys, I know what it's like to live the whole reason you're doing that is so Your assets will take care of you. That's your passive income goal. So the three steps to creating a passive follow that 7030 rule, 7030 rule means live off of This is after look at your checking accounts, How much did I put in and if it's $4,000 a month, great, then you're going to live off and you're going to take the other giving 10%. That 10% invest. And I'll show you what you're going Really easy to get started, And then you're going to go, Like, I could have had a V8, So here's the deal. A lot of people, You're living off of every dollar. Know what that's like. And I'm going to say donate some time. You got to give it to other people. And it's not just because I'm going to be altruistic and pound on a Bible No, it's called But also you meet other decent if you start working with charities, People that tend to work around charity and people that support charities You want those people in your life, by takers. You want to be surrounded and go to places that givers go, right? So if you're giving 10% to your church and and they have a a food soup kitchen or And you can't afford the 10%, I'd like to put a little bit of time I used to run a forklift for Northwest I didn't have any money. So I figured, Hey, you know what? I better try to do something Do that for that 10% of the magic. Believe me, it's It goes under the radar Realistically, you got to do that. It makes you feel better if you're doing good for others, it's because of whatever it is. We have this weird thing of all evil going on, It's if you love money too much then you could end up being pretty miserable and frankly, there's My buddy Hans calls them rich, Right. And we all know them. Money doesn't make you happy, but a can And it's a lot better than being poor Right. But it doesn't mean It means try to be a good human We got to pay down our personal debt. You're in servitude of others. If you are paying off a ton You're never going to have it. The reality is you get out there, It's hard not to. They're always pushing debt on us. Hey, you know, 180 days, same as cash. Six months, zero interest Those default, meaning that The credit card companies know this and they're just trying to get you to buy So don't do it. If you did do it, pay it down. Right. Last 10% invest. In fact, that's the most important thing is every time you have a paycheck, take 10% of it I don't care if you open up a robin hood Fidelity pick your pick your flavor. They have no cost accounts and put 10% in there. Pay it like it's a bill. It's no different than a cell bill. It's Just make sure that you're paying it. So that's step I could give you a whole bunch but it's just following that. If you can do that, and follow You're going to be way better off Make sure you're following that. If you are just getting started, you're like Toby, but I only make X Minimize as much as you can, figure out or better yet, go out there and find a way to make money in the area So if I was just starting out again, I would more than likely maybe trying to find mobile home that are in high demand that I could flip. And if you don't know what those things Go on my site. Or better yet, go to Infinity Investing. It's a company I work with a lot breaking it down. You check that one out, too. But what you're doing that are investors. If you find something for an investor, So wholesaling is finding properties, putting up bandit signs, You can go into the real estate groups you'll get paid for it And it is legal in all states So like you could pretty much but what you're doing is you're saying what are you looking for? This is a recipe, by the way, guys. So if I was baking a cake and I was following a recipe and I was substituting things But instead of flour, You're not going to get a very good cake So this is a recipe. You got to kind of follow it, right? You got to make sure that you're doing it by all means. If you can live off of less, that's great. There's something called financial Retire early. The fire methodology and their big bullish if I could live off of half on a retire much, much faster, I'm That's the goal. If you're done with the giving, so you don't have to worry about that, If you pay off your debt, lower So eventually you're going to be investing whatever your take home But the market's crash Nobody can time the market. The very best investors on the planet Quit listening to all these Hey, I can teach you how to trade options Now they can't. Statistically speaking, 99% of the people And there's big studies Warren Buffett, Charlie Munger, investors on the planet will tell you do not try to time the market. Just keep buying and just keep like, this is not an investment video. But I will say if you just buy So I give you, Hey, I have stuff that I use every day I like to go to Lowe's or Home Depot. I like to go to Target, buying those companies in their stocks and just keep buying them over time. It's called dividend Kings. Dividend Aristocrats do all that I'll show you why. Step number two, we're going to diversify. We're going to build This is going to flow And I'm just going to give you the rule. I call it 30% of your money should be in income And notice Hopefully you can read that said stocks, in something that is involved And I'll explain that in a second. 30% is going to be managed money. And I'm not saying you have to go hire I'll get into this You follow this, it's hard to get killed or anything like that. It's really hard to get hurt. So let me go through these each at a time and I'll explain The place we're going to start because we can start with 100 bucks. We can start buying stocks Nowadays. You can do your Robinhood fill in the blank, whatever it is, you're going to start investing in stocks, You're going to invest in producing stocks, If you've never heard of those terms, what I just said are companies derive a certain size, over $1,000,000,000 dividends, increasing dividends, they make and pay to shareholders Dividend Kings is 50 years or more Dividend Kings or your Procter you could you have even federal realty trust All these things have been increasing 3 a.m., Johnson and Johnson, But these are companies that for 50 years the amount So if you buy a share, they're It's called a dividend as a tax attorney, on your income stream or what your income if you're married, filing jointly let's just say you're making less then it goes to 15%. And then if your rich person you're married, making over You're going to pay but you're paying zero, They are tax advantaged. The IRS is telling you, invest in this. That's and you're going to fill this bucket up As you're doing it, you're taking 10% Your emergency fund, Oh, I have a six month emergency fund. I'm cool. I want you to have a six month but I can turn stocks into cash So I'm okay. Just saying 10%. So if you're putting in and you have 300 bucks, you're going to take 30 of it just just in a regular checking You're not really getting anything on it. If you feel like you have to buy or I need to buy gold, then you use that I would suggest that if you just The 270 will go into stocks every month Eventually, you're going and then you move to the next one. And the next one is real estate I'm going to suggest you start off which are traded just like stocks, Trust o public storage, And it's just like owning real estate. Yeah, typically a has to pay out So you're going to get a nice cash flow, it's going to come in And you could see Like you could look at their yields If you do like Federal Realty they've been increasing that amount. So if I bought something that's just going to go up Some of these are averaging close What they increase their dividends, but the dividend that they're paying you. So every year it goes up. So when I started a, you know, Now pay me a dollar ten. Now it's paying me a dollar 30. You know, after ten or 20 years, it's paying and that's what you want. And then it's going to keep doing that, Don't sell it right? When you start building these things up why would you get rid of it? It's a perpetual income stream. It's going to pay you, your kids, You want to hold on to these things and I'll show you some ways If you do not know what to invest Wrote the book, but it's a great course. Infinity investing is free. You could go in there and see the ratings You could literally go in there, sign up, of where to start. If this is you, good place. Not just because it's but because it actually works very wealthy people who make money 25 years of looking at returns, third category, You're going to do 50,000 there again and always putting it into cash. And then once you hit $100,000 saved up, The third category is managed Real simple just means somebody else So it could be, hey, somebody's stock portfolio. I'm going to look at Berkshire Hathaway. I'm going to buy everything that they have or I'm going to hire a money manager and and let them, you know, ETFs, and probably avoid mutual funds. But you're going to go into something where there maybe it's buckets of stocks I might even be doing private placements I'm starting to get big enough. I have to meet a certain threshold but I might go into some of those things maybe your dentist, maybe a consulting and you qualify as an accredited investor You know what, That's where you do And then every year you just look at your portfolio and if I am sitting here and I have 60% in private placements but if I am 100% or 80% in real estate, I'm too heavily I need to producing stocks They call that diversification. I'm not huge on diversification But I do like this. I do like having a multitude of assets. We call it different streams of income. I have dividends coming in. I have income coming in off This is passive real estate. I'm not going to be managing these things Typically. Sometimes, if that's something that my family likes to do, But for the most part, you're just going and dividends. And then over here I'm probably getting Those are the two big ones, rents Now, can I make more money off On the stocks, for example, as you start getting bigger you can do what's called buying a a put to enter into a position I don't do naked put, you're selling somebody So if you like Coca-Cola, for example, and it's around 50 bucks, you can make me buy a thousand shares I'll use 100 just to make it easy. So I know that I have $5,000 but maybe I could sell that right But I could get an extra 200 bucks. And then if Coca-Cola doesn't go down, guess what? I get to keep that money. I could do that month after month. That's number one. I could do that. That's easy if I don't want to go there. Like if that just went right Don't worry. There's an easier one. If I buy a stock, I could to make me sell So if I bought Coca-Cola at 50 bucks, I could sell a call, somebody will buy it, says, hey, for, and and I'll sell you Coca-Cola at 51, And I get to keep that extra buck. Right. I can do that every month. That's called a covered call That's going to be short term So you remember That's it. It's rent, royalties, dividends, That short term That's It's not it's not rocket science. It's something really easy to do. And again, you could even do securities. You could do a package of stocks, That is actually what are called ETFs, little groups of stocks You could do that, make extra money. So I'm not worried about the stock I'm literally getting paid on the dividend and I'm literally And it could be a chunk of money. You could start doing this after two Then you look back and you go, Whoa, compared to what I paid for that You're looking at it going, whoa, I have been able to over the years These investments are literally buying That's when you know When it starts perpetuating itself, hey, I have this 30% that I'm dumping in and I love to do it, but it's weird. It's growing a lot faster That's exactly what you do. Step number three, you lever this. And what I mean by levering If I need extra money to buy I'm not going to tell you I'm just going to say you're not going to go into debt You're going to let your assets as it's But let's say that I have a stock My real estate's gone up. Everything's doing hunky dory, And Toby is telling me, What you do is you lever these assets. So let's just say Did you know that you could borrow It's called a security back They'll generally give you up I would not do that. But the interest rate is really low. It's like 2%. Even when mortgages are 5% to 3%, I can borrow that I didn't sell. My security is still making money. It's still like the dividend Literally. Like the thing is paying for your own loan whatever car you want or a better house It's a tax advantaged position. I borrow from my own portfolio, and the stocks That's what the rich people do. Buy, borrow, die. That's the strategy. You'll see it all over the place That's the strategy. Buy things, let it depreciate, borrow And the reason that I say die Your heirs can sell, pay off any loans You get that money all during your lifetime Nobody pays Congress keeps looking at it going, That is exactly what we want people to do. It's not a fairness issue. It's a the tax code is built Why are we not all doing it? So you can lever your securities, Everybody knows that because they buy their house and they get a mortgage The loan is one thing, I could use my I have my house, A lot of you guys do. I'm saying I'm not a big fan of personal debt, I do if I need some cash to go buy I could pull that out easy and access it. Now, I'm not going to say to that If you want to go buy like, Hey, because I want to buy three rentals I don't mind you tapping your because your properties Right? I could be leaving the properties But what I would prefer you to do is you already have So if I have an investment portfolio, I have a bunch of single family against those, and then I have free cash Pay that back out of your rent. In other words, I have something like I have a and it's appreciating That's fine. But what I can do is borrow against the Or if I want to buy a car, I can do it. Or if I want to have a bigger house or I want to go on vacation, But at the end of the day, My tenants are paying that back. That's the secret sauce. Step number three is do everything in a Do not sell if something major happened So let's say that you have a stock and for whatever reason, they get in you know, they're acting, and you don't agree with it. It's Then dump it. Okay, Or if it's a piece of real estate, I might say, you know what? I'm going to take the insurance money and I'm going to sell it to somebody, That's okay. Otherwise, That income stream does not go away. If I have a portfolio like this, it's and it doesn't stop. It is just going to keep doing it year And it's not just me. If I want to leave it to my kids and things like that, I'm I'm leaving them I'm leaving them a nice cash flow machine. So these are the three steps that I would I have done it. It does work. None of this is an original idea I am just a conduit. I see people who are doing these things. I see them consistently and I suggest you do the exact same thing The people that are trying to get you and now is the time to buy Get rid of that nonsense by systematically over time, ignore that are paying you to own them, and they share it with their shareholders. Don't buy growth companies that make no money value someday and you sell it. Those are the ones that get crushed and companies, great companies Then when it comes to real estate, Real estate, you're not buying I don't care what the economy's doing. I remember here in Vegas, We had this huge recession. We were ground zero for foreclosures. Our rents went up every rental property is made more that were losing their house, If you have it's supply and demand, rents They've consistently gone up. You can't say that. Boy, I wish I hadn't You're killing it. You bought it in 1990. You're killing it. You bought it in 2000. You're killing it. You bought it during the recession. You're killing it, right? All of those have done absolutely great. But somebody was trying to get you to And if you had made the mistake so you hold on to these things. So step number one, live below your means. Make sure that you're paying Step number two is do the 30, Yeah, income producing stocks, even marrying somebody's step number three, don't sell and or to But make sure that you are not paying it You're letting somebody else If you like this type of content, Subscribe to it. By clicking You don't get hit with spam, but it lets We think somebody could benefit from this. Please share it Thanks, guys.