Out of all the members of the MythBusters most capable at building stuff. Plus, the man has loads of connections to crafting combat robots. Let's geek out and discover the truth about In 2010, Grant Imahara promised to build a through on that promise. It all began as such things often do on Twitter. According to Entertainment Weekly, Imahara host of The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson, his, quote, &quot;robot skeleton army.&quot; One thing quickly led to another. As Imahara told the Star-Advertiser, &quot;At some point, they put two and two together sidekick.&quot; Imahara would prove to be just the man to host had to drive Imahara's Twitter followers Ferguson quickly rose to the challenge. According to Popular Mechanics, Imahara found to deliver. He tinkered with the robot while shooting for sleep and a huge rush to get everything Popular Mechanics reports that Imahara soon only one week before the deadline, &quot;He still needed to write the software that control box.&quot; Despite his struggles with the project, Imahara &quot;Oh, that's cold, Craig.&quot; The end result was Geoff Peterson, a snarky, The creation became so popular it even has entry is significantly longer than Imahara's. &quot;It's our first day together so we're just Right Geoff?&quot; &quot;Why not?&quot; Ferguson absolutely loved Geoff Peterson. And shortly after Ferguson left The Late Late fans a much-needed update on everyone's favorite &quot;For everyone who's asked me 'What happened I can report that he is safely with Craig And no wonder. Ha, ha, ha. You're the man, Craig.&quot; If you're in the business of building robots, jokes along the lines of: &quot;Your creation is Well, Grant Imahara might not find those jokes killed by his own robot. Several times, actually. According to Make magazine, the robot in question It was a huge, 625-pound walking machine that a man. The Spider didn't exactly come alive and try Imahara unintentionally created optimal conditions The robot was a particularly challenging and made the mistake of testing The Spider late Here's how that played out: &quot;F---. Whoo!&quot; And apparently that's not the only time the Imahara. As he told Make magazine, &quot;Working late at night by myself, there were crushed me. Pro tip: Don't do what I did. Never work alone around heavy or otherwise According to his profile at the USC Alumni working at Industrial Light &amp; Magic, the special Lucas. And during that time, he got to work on some We'll get to Imahara's wide-ranging work on first, you should know that he also built Revolutions. According to Mouser, he also got to work behind World: Jurassic Park, Terminator 3: Rise of to name just a few. As the saying goes, it's all about the friends During his time with Industrial Light &amp; Magic, makers: Tory Belleci and Adam Savage. Grant Imahara isn't the only MythBuster to As Tested reports, both Adam Savage and Tory But Imahara's contributions are truly impressive. According to Mouser, Imahara is the guy who I: The Phantom Menace and Star Wars Episode From speed controls to radio gear, he replaced The most visible change? Imahara designed a new system for the droid's He removed the old &quot;rotating color wheel&quot; a custom LED rig that, strangely enough, wasn't It was actually created out of a gadget from in Galaxy Quest. We don't really know which one. What's more, Mouser reports that, &quot;[Imahara was one of] three official R2-D2 Sounds like quite the responsibility, right? Well, as he told Nerd Alert, &quot;Actually driving R2 is fairly simple. Um, there's one joystick. The right thumb controls the body.&quot; Wondering about the left thumb? Imahara goes on to reveal, &quot;The left thumb controls the little hollow Pretty impressive credentials, no? It's on your resume.&quot; &quot;It's on my resume.&quot; And that's not all. According to Wired, Imahara spent a decade wearing the golden suit for assorted appearances &quot;I'm here with some of the most popular Star C-3PO!!!!&quot; Grant Imahara is one of the many minds behind In 2011, AL.com reported that the Energizer of the mascot and needed to find someone to Imahara turned out to be just the man for Mouser reports that Imahara personally built ear movements and beating arms. He also installed and programmed all the electronics project. Imahara has shared some deep dark secrets Despite appearing rather small in the commercials, and it's filled to the brim with electronics. It actually takes a whopping 44 AA batteries us they're all Energizer batteries, so you It apparently took a team of three people supposed to. Imahara's crew built three bunnies named Earl, They must have cost the company a pretty penny, &quot;I can't tell you how much they cost. But if you know what a Ferrari Testarossa And believe us when we tell you... that's the final word on the subject. You know Grant Imahara is a respected robot also an expert in the fine art of building He used to make regular appearances on the by a 2018 tweet, it looks like he's thrown &quot;I've retired from robot combat. My first fighting robot Deadblow was almost They made it into a toy and I wrote a book Indeed, it turns out Imahara has written what your very own kickass machine and it's appropriately Building Combat Robots. This 528-page primer tells you everything wreck other robots and the text anticipates tinker. In his book, Imahara tells you how to design and where to purchase them, and even where Imahara's collection of instructions and techniques Long story short: You can build a combat robot any electronics and hardware store. So if you're looking to assemble your very As for Imahara, his building skills were apparent &quot;Set Number 357. The Legoland Fire Station, 1973 was my first There's been plenty of fanfare about Jamie Blendo, but as we just mentioned, Grant Imahara arena in his own right. We imagine you want to know more about his It was a sleek, middleweight gizmo armed with The robot's tenure on BattleBots was a highly Deadblow was victorious in two &quot;Middleweight robot in season three. Imahara remembers his time on BattleBots with In 2014, he told Make magazine: &quot;BattleBots is like a really cool party where It's about testing your ideas against smart, combat. Taking damage is part of the fun. And bringing home a giant nut (the trophy) Even if your work happens to be an impossibly and nifty machines, it's nice to go home to Grant Imahara would undoubtedly agree. According to NextShark, Imahara's longtime many of his professional and personal interests. According to their joint interview for StarWars.com, costume designer. &quot;I have that perfect age range where I grew Grant worked on.&quot; According to TMZ, Imahara decided to take and proposed to Newman in a typically fearless He bent his knee in a Los Angeles restaurant, for a surprise birthday party. The risk not to mention the $20,000 vintage Newman's reply was reportedly, and we quote, &quot;F--- yeah!&quot; The name Tomlinson Holman might not mean much Grant Imahara, it means the world. According to the USC Alumni Association, Imahara to say the least. As he told TwiT Tech Podcast Network, &quot;I'm falling asleep in my classes. I don't have focus. This sucks.&quot; A counselor reportedly told Imahara to meet arts, and also the man who developed the revolutionary You know the one. Imahara was instantly starstruck and offered Holman accepted, and Imahara spent an extremely Holman's innovations at THX helped renew Imahara's ways to apply his talents. Then, Holman scored the young man an internship job after Imahara finished his studies. And finally, after three years with THX, Imahara well-known Lucasfilm company: Industrial Light The rest, as they say, is history. Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the