God is great and God is good; By his hands we are fed. So you said you did the mile in Fifty-five. That's slower isn't it? You got to push it. You don't want to have nothing left Give it all you got. I remember when you brought home It said, &quot;What form of government do we have in the United States of It said we have a You know what form of government Here we go again. We have a constitutional republic. Power comes from the people It's the voice of the people. Our position is the people Take a good look at the face of the Move! These are patriots that are not going And our way of life will be So help us God. Guns up! Guns up! I don't want nobody taking I don't want nobody taking my You know so. I'd die for that. Hell yeah. This is where the administrative So I put on my sidearm when I leave And I keep it on my side So I am definitely and pro-second amendment. And nothing in the world So I am General Holy War of There's several different chapters The media will paint militia groups And it's not anti-government. I mean initially, I'd say, &quot;Fuck I mean alt-right to me maybe a white, or black, Christian, strong convictions about upholding all enemies, foreign and domestic. If there's one thing that we can't it's a disarmed populace. I got to be prepared to move quick that says there's a martial law. There's a nuclear attack. There's a chemical I'm getting prepared for anything on my forehead and killing me, I want to survive it. And if it's done by a hostile force, I'm going to kill as many bastards And move on without remorse. Most people look at militiamen and redneck types. It's quite offensive really. I mean, we're talking about come from all walks of life. They're professionals. They're engineers, electricians. Where's Chris at this morning? So if we want to go ahead Go help yourself. You're welcome. Eggs and bacon over there sir. Eggs and bacon there sir, Waiting on everybody to get up which most everybody is already. Some of us have had breakfast We'll start the training, as soon as Blood Agent We'll go from there. We went into quick cooking mode. Is General up yet or moving? I haven't seen him yet The Three Percent movement has been But I took a personal interest following the election of And after witnessing different after witnessing and learning about that caused me concern So I began looking out to other and help each other build a network if that should ever be needed. We got new scopes on our rifles that we can't wait to try it out. I realized about a year ago and I did not feel safe when I was with my 12 year old. So I began the journey to get my had my husband teach me about and once I got that legal, then I And we're sticking together. I mean that is our first posture. We're not here to start anything. But we're here to defend and protect anybody that you see wearing a The dogs that we bring. That is why I'm here. The Three Percent movement is a prevailing in the Revolutionary War. And the belief that a small group of patriots, can defend themselves Yes sir, I consider myself a I believe that most of the people in would identify as Christian. Our laws are based on The Bible tells us that there is right here on planet Earth. My views on the religious beliefs of I think that their belief systems In Christianity, I don't think we- I've never heard of a situation to convert non-Christians But I think Islam And it's good and evil and it's Is good and evil. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which is total bullshit. But if you bring up an argument you're just a racist. And it's freaking nonsensical. So my name is Phil King, GFS knows me by. I found Security Force a while back. Unfortunately, it was because of a It was Chris that I met first. Like I said, unfortunately, Pulled him aside and talked to him And come out to my first FTX. Everything's been great since then. Come out here to train. They treat me like family. If I need something, they're going to help me out If they need something, I'll help them out to the While I was in high school I joined the police and went on to be a sheriff officer, I don't have a military background, So you know, being able to train military aspect, but also gives them It's a great group of guys. Nothing about this militia Yeah, we have, you know, But the rebel flag is just a flag. It was an American flag. It wasn't the best of times, but it was an American flag. It does not mean anything. It's a piece of cloth. Do you think that we'd be wearing Put that on and wear it proudly, sir. You got a lot of people that think That's bullshit. Excuse my language. That's BS. We're standing for the Constitution. A lot of people are trying to take basically our constitutional rights They want to take our second I mean we stand for that. That's what this whole thing is We use our second amendment to We're building the next generation. Maybe like Iron Witch said, But we see that freedom is not free Even in America. The country is divided. I mean looking at it from 30,000 feet, We've never been in this situation, But in the end, we're not We're not going to back They can take that, anybody on the Or we'll say it's a promise. We're going to get moving here shortly after we get And get cracking with the training. It's going to be some high-speed, We're going to be doing going to be doing patrolling. We'll be doing live fire exercises. It's going to be motivation. Mota, mota, got a lot of motivation. Alright, let's circle up. Get some real estate. Get a little bit of space, Alright. Good morning. Good morning. Morning, morning. Alright so we're going to get this We're going to get out PT in. The Second Amendment We need to be prepared Our first exercise is going to be Side-straddle hops, Gandhi wrote that the darkest was when the people did not have the Look at Europe. Look at the mass influx of refugees going on in France. And you see these videos where the terrorists are running in And the poor people in France all they and video it. I'm saying, if this is America, and put two shots in his freaking Push up! Exercise! One, two, three. One! One, two, three. Two! One, two, three. Three! One, two, three. Four! Five! Six! Seven! Everybody up! Recover. When you look at our group, it's not happen with the government, or if a war's going to happen. That really don't matter to us. If a hurricane hits tomorrow, So it's not just about standing up or nothing like that. Like I said before, Warning, warning! This is a secured area. Go back to Move back! Going hot. Going hot! Wow. Alright. For you guys that haven't bring it over here real quick. So obviously we're going to need a So let me get two volunteers Got one. Blackout. Two. Alright, I need at least one tango. What we're about to do now is We're simulating that So you'll be in charge of our Our first objective is to make it Once we get to the RP, Then any traffic, vehicle traffic perimeter would have to go Turn off the vehicle. Driver! Turn off the vehicle! Stop the vehicle. Turn the car off. Alright, alright. Keep your hands on Step out of the vehicle. Keep your hands where Yeah, I'm watching you with that What the hell? Hands on your head! Come on now. You can't just talk. I pray to God everyday that I do not for any reason. But I'm also preparing in case it happens during her time. And we're protecting what my father What these men that have served You cannot give up on that because define your liberty, your freedom, Stand by! Going hot! I just got off of work. And I do bankruptcies. Pretty cool job. Get to help out a My legal jurisprudence. So today we're in Henry Square, This is the sight of recent that the statue of Colonel Zachary There's a lot of talk sweeping the that represents the Confederacy. Everything that represents And the way things are looking in Dee Clemmons and the we believe and we anticipate, for the removal of this It's the same group basically Antifa members themselves or basically BLM members themselves. They're just occupying And they're getting their foot But they're all fighting the same bullshit belief that everything Confederate because it's associated It's ignorant. It's fascist. It's straight up terrorism It's straight up terrorism for a and destroy property and injure But again, the bigger portion of and these marches that I've been We met in 2000 at college. So we've been together 17 years. You know a lot of people is like the to the white supremacist groups That's so not true. He really hates racism He's the first one who would defend skin color they are. Oh snap! We're only like a month away from a Did you know that? President Trump is saying we're And if they don't put money in the shut it down. Shut down the government. Can you imagine that? That'd be so awesome. Shut it down. Lock the doors. -And build the wall. That'd be sweet right? No matter what happens, Oh my God. That was good. Thank you, Mommy! -You're welcome. Can you clean up the kitchen for me? Yeah. Kayla's going to do her speech. She's got to practice. Alright. Hello fellow Beta members. I'm running for Beta Club President. The reason I'm running is because this school has ever had. We are the future and we need to be I would like to see all of us come and build up our weaknesses, our So join me and let's get started. Vote Kayla Hill, a Beta choice for a Good job, baby! Alright guys. Time for goodnight. - Kayla girl. - Goodnight. You too. Sometimes he comes home &quot;Well, I'm done. I've had it. say anything that's so false and But then, he'll calm down And I think he feels like And then he'll go back into it. And he'll do it again because he wants to reach somebody that he managed to get through to. That's enough for him. The Patriot movement, the Three They split for a lot of More or less it's, &quot;Screw this guy, &quot;I came in with this guy, And I'm taking two or three with me.&quot; If they break off from me, they And for what it's worth, a lot of, probably 10 different, My character's often led to the Security Force because I trust Four men unleashed their aggression -Is he a white supremacist? He's unstable. Hill told me that's why he kicked after a year. For the record, I quit the militia because he does not have a stable And almost everybody else, they And that kind of divides That's another reason It's, "we don't talk to media because we know they're going to hack or radicals." Then media has created this big No doubt they sensationalized So it's kind of weird, you know? I'm just Chris Hill up in the doing my shit in the computer running around on the weekends But, I guess some It's resonating with some people. Somebody out there is going and it's going to Like, &quot;I know where that I'm a Three Percenter. I go out and I prepare for worst It's out there. No doubt. It's not how fast you It's how well you mow down