Sorry for the poor translation with the machine translator... This is the first day she has been in the birdhouse! From the next day she started expanding the burrow! She went into the birdhouse in the evening. She started staying in the birdhouse from the second day!Fluffy!! She is working hard to expand the birdhouse! The male is coming to see the female doing the construction. She started working on the floor too! Her birdhouse expansion project, which had been going on for about three weeks, seemed to be coming to an end.... The amount of wood chips generated is amazing!! She brought the nesting materials(moss)! But her construction continues... Carrying in nesting materials (2nd time) Carrying in nesting materials (9th time) The large amount of nesting material she has in her mouth makes it difficult for her to enter the nest. Carrying in nesting materials (17th time) Carrying in nesting materials (18th time) Carrying in nesting materials (25th time) Carrying in nesting materials (32nd time) Carrying in nesting materials (38th time) That's it for today. Carrying in nesting materials Carrying in nesting materials (63rd time) (65th time)She picked up my hair!!!!I had cut my hair at home a while ago and dumped it in a pile of dead leaves.. Carrying in nesting materials (74th time) Carrying in nesting materials The male came to see the birdhouse while the female was out! He is helping to expand the burrow! And now that she isn't there, he also checks inside the birdhouse.... He is also helping inside expansion construction! What a good husband to sneak in some construction while his wife is away!! And.. the male sneaking out of the birdhouse... Carrying in nesting materials (91st time) It stuck to her beak and she can't seem to get it off. Is this the poo of a natural enemy or something, brought here to mask the her smell? It's a mystery... Carrying in nesting materials Does she look happy? Carrying in nesting materials (112th time) She was checking the comfort of the hollow and got sleepy....Kawaii!!! Carrying in nesting materials(127th) Today she seems to have finished her nest building to some extent... This behavior of hers...? I don't think she was able to lay any eggs today! Will today be the day she gives birth to her first egg? She looks like she's ready to give birth. She finally gave birth to her first egg! She gave birth to her second egg! She gave birth to her third egg! She gave birth to her fourth egg!h She gave birth to her fifth egg! She lays one egg a day and continues to bring in nesting materials at the same time. She gave birth to her sixth egg! Carrying in nesting materials (161st time) She gave birth to her seventh egg! She gave birth to her eighth egg! Carrying in nesting materials (169th time) There was aluminum film mixed in with the nesting material! Could it be...? She gave birth to her ninth egg while in a sleeping position!! She's struggling with the aluminum film... The aluminum film stuck to the wall! Her struggle with the film was over... She's flipping her belly hard! She finally gave birth to her tenth egg! Many rumbling eggs!! She started spending a lot of time in the nest box during the day, so it looks like she's finally starting to incubate her eggs! She's still fighting the aluminum film. And then... He ate it himself... She was waiting with her mouth open for food, but he couldn't see her because of the animal hair! The male is bringing food again! He can't see her with the animal hair! She finally had some food... There are 10 eggs!!!! Three hours later, she came back... The next morning What a surprise, she gave birth to her eleventh egg!!!! Maybe the reason she had paused yesterday was to adjust the overall incubation time, including for the new egg. She's leaving! The male have brought her food! Her battle with the aluminum film seemed to have no end.. Finally...., she decides to go dump the film outside? She seems to keep it inside after all. On this night, the small one which just woke up from hibernation came! A Japanese dormouse!! He looked into the burrow! She's fiercely intimidating! He escaped at full speed!! She kept up her threats for a long time. ...Will the dormouse eat the eggs and chicks as rumored? Someone came outside the birdhouse while warning cries of the Japanese tit could be heard in the distance..... She holds her breath and freeze... A Coal tit is here.... Something came out of the birdhouse again! Chestnut-cheeked Starlings!! I wonder if she's looking for a nest... The other birds were finally gone. She's playing with aluminum film. Incidentally, the aluminum film she had fought for so long went missing after this day. It was not found when I cleaned the birdhouse later..... The female is freezing again. That woodpecker pecking was intense! The male brought food to the anxious female! Nice guy The male brought something that looked like eggs... He dropped it!!!! Is this a feast for them? I wonder if she was able to retrieve that eggs... The male has brought her food! Unusually, the male stayed in the nest box for a long time.And the female seems to be communicating something to the male. &quot;Bring me more food!!!!&quot; Immediately the male has brought her food! 2 minutes later, the male has brought her food! 9 minutes later, the male has brought her food! 2 minutes later, the male has brought her food! The male has awakened and his pace of bringing food has suddenly increased! Finally, a hole in the egg! The eggshell cracked! She's eating the eggshell... She's a little worried because her husband hasn't come back... &quot;!!! My husband is back!&quot; &quot;We're having a baby~! &quot; &quot;Seriously? Congratulations!!&quot; "Meeeeewl!" She took the food and came back. She ended up eating it herself. The father brought food for the chicks. While they are taking the time to feed the first chick, the second egg is about to hatch. Eventually, the food was eaten by her... The second egg has hatched! The father brought food for the chicks. The father brought food for the chicks. The mother has gone outside, so the father feeds the chicks! The father was able to feed the chicks for a bit. The third egg has hatched! The mother is unaware that the third egg has hatched... The mother finally notices that the third egg has hatched and eats the eggshell! The father brought food for the chicks. The mother's mouth was covered with eggshells and she couldn't take the food... The fourth egg has hatched! The fifth egg has hatched! The father came, and the mother went outside, And he feeds the chicks. This father is able to feed his chicks properly. That's good! That's it for today ... the remaining unhatched eggs are six!! The sixth egg has hatched! The seventh egg has hatched! It seemed hard to eat two eggshells at once. .. The father brought food for the chicks. She dropped it ... &quot;It's not my fault...&quot; the father quietly left the nest... She picked it up safely! The chicks' first poop! ..and she ate the poop.. The 8th egg has hatched! She's tired of eating eggshells. The father brought food for the chicks. The ninth egg is about to hatch! The ninth egg has hatched! She went to throw half of the eggshell outside again. The father brought food for the chicks. His first ... he ate the poop!! The mother came back.. The 10th egg has hatched! She went to throw half of the eggshell outside again. Four hours have passed since the tenth egg hatched. Six hours have passed since the tenth egg hatched. The mother came back with a food.. Seven and a half hours have passed since the tenth egg hatched. Finally, The 11th egg has hatched! It took 18 hours and 10 minutes for 10 eggs to hatch. It took 25 hours and 50 minutes for 11 eggs to hatch... I wondered what would happen to the last egg, but as it turns out, she hatched all 11 eggs in less than 26 hours, which is very impressive! Only the last egg was way off in time, after all that may have been something she hadn't planned on... There are 11 chicks! The mother came back with a food.. The father brought food for the chicks. She swallowed poop! The father brought food for the chicks. As I was walking by the nest, the father is draped over the chicks to guard them! Great! (But I'm sad that I'm considered an enemy...) Later, when the father brought food for the chicks, as I walked by the nest.... the father is draped over the chicks to guard them from me again!! That's great! The father brought food for the chicks. This looks painful... The chick did his best to swallow it! And...poop!! The father brought food for the chicks. The mother came back with a food..It was raining hard today and she was soaking wet!! The father brought food for the chicks. The father brought food for the chicks. They both brought a crazy big food! The mother was finding it difficult to sleep on her chicks at night... The father brought food for the chicks. The father's getting serious! He brought food for the chicks 2 minutes later!! 2 minutes later, the father brought food for the chicks. 30 seconds later, the father brought food for the chicks. Now it's the mother's turn! She brought food for the chicks!! 5 minutes later, she brought food for the chicks!! 2 minutes later, she brought food for the chicks!! The mother can't sleep on her chicks again today at night... The mother came back with a food.. The father brought food for the chicks. I think they are pulling and tearing the large pieces of food to make it easier for the chicks to eat, but to me it looks like they are fighting for the food... The father left the feeding to the mother and went outside. She was finally able to get the chick to eat the food. Then she collects the poop and checks on the chicks. She looks like she is having a very hard time standing on her head.... The mother is going to have a hard time sleeping tonight again... The mother came back with a food.. The father brought food! And the mother will take it! They are trying to tear it off and make it smaller, but it seems to be difficult. She tore a small piece of the worm outside and brought it for the chicks. Mother........ The father brought food! The poop was held high in the sky!! The poop sank back into the ground... The father brought food! The chicks came flying out with great energy! When the parents disappear, the chicks gradually shrivel up... The mother came back with a food.. The mother may have gotten used to sleeping in this environment... The mother brought food! Today, the mother was feeding more often!! 1 minute later, the mother brought food! 3 minutes later, the mother brought food! 1 minute later, the mother brought food! 1 minute later, the mother brought food! 3 minutes later, the mother brought food! 4 minutes later, the mother brought food! After a short pause, the mother brought some food. The mother is working crazy hard in the heavy rain! The father brought food! The mother is getting used to this situation. Thank God! The chicks are jumping out like crazy! The mother brought food.. This chick is so cute, flapping his tiny wings! The mother brought food.. This is the look of ecstasy.... The mother was panicking that the chick might have pooped. She dove straight into the chicks! She could not retrieve the poo....... The father brought food! The two parents are not fighting over the food again, but tearing it up to make it smaller. It's pretty chaotic! The mother brought food.. This chick is making a fierce appeal, but she's totally ignoring it...... The father brought food! His appeal did not go over well with his father too... This chick doesn't have good timing! She is tired and is taking a break..... It's very hard work. The mother is sleeping soundly today.... The mother brought food.. The mother brought food....It's so huge! He swallowed it! Good! The father brought food! She has managed to sleep today.... &quot;Don't!!!&quot; &quot;Stop it!!!&quot; Patience... The mother came back with a food.. The chicks started talking to each other. Their voices are still quiet. The mother came back with a food.. The father brought food! They are both pulling and tearing at the food today! (not fighting) The mother began to sleep with the chicks..... The father brought food! Two chicks had to fight for the same food! The father left them to their own devices and went.. Both chicks seemed satisfied...Kawaii!!! The mother came back with a food.. The chick, who was appealing fiercely to her mother... sank to the bottom... She dug up a bug! Maybe the eggs her husband dropped earlier hatched... And..she ate it... The chick also dug up a bug! He dropped it... IThe movement of the sleeping chicks is getting more and more violent... The mother is struggling to sleep..... Chicks at around 8:00 a.m. 2 hours later.. 5 hours later, the chicks seem to have grown even bigger! This is a very intense flapping of wings. The father brought food! At last, the chicks could no longer fit under their mother.... This was the last time for the mother and the chicks to sleep together... The mother went outside. 11 chicks are sleeping in a beautiful row!! The mother came back with a food.. The father brought food! The mother takes a short break among the chicks. The mother brought food! The mother seems to be looking for a bug or something. The mother came back, but she didn't go into the birdhouse, just watched from outside.... Then the mother went away....... The chicks were completely oblivious to the fact that their mother was back....... The first night the chicks spent alone without their mother... The mother brought food.. The chicks waited quietly for their mother to come back. The mother brought food.. Here is the chick peeking out of his nest hole!! The mother brought food.. The mother did not come back again that day. The chicks will spend the night alone with them today. The mother brought food.. The father brought food! The mother left the feeding of the chicks to the father and went... The father could not take the poo..... They seem to be arguing... I walked out and all the chicks froze together! They already have crisis management! The mother brought food.. The chicks are still in freeze... The chicks are slowly letting down their guard. One of the chicks is bursting at the seams! And this chick peeks outside! They look like they are ready to fledge!!! The mother brought food.. The father brought food! The father could not take the last poo today... The time is 18:20, and it's still raining. The &quot;it&quot; began suddenly. The chicks started to get fidgety. Chicks responding to the chirping of their parents. That seemed to be the signal for them to leave the nest. Finally, the time had come.! The chicks start to go to the nesting hole. One chick showed up! And finally... the chick left the nest!!!! The second chick has left the nest! The third chick has left the nest! The fourth chick has left the nest! The chicks are getting fewer and fewer... The fifth chick has left the nest! The sixth chick has left the nest! The seventh chick has left the nest! There are four chicks left... The eighth chick has left the nest! The ninth chick has left the nest! The ninth chick left the nest, leaving behind a poo! The tenth chick has left the nest! It was finally the last one. The eleventh chick left the nest safely! Just six minutes after the first chick left the nest... Outside, The mother was leading her chicks with food in the rain. Parenting is still going on... It's the first time for the chicks to see the outside world... I wonder what the outside world looks like to them... And then, in the dim, rainy fog, the father, mother, and 11 chicks left... I'm so impressed by how beautifully they've left the nest. Please pray that the 11 chicks will grow up safely.... Thank you very much.