Email aliases are an amazing tool, but unless with the same crowded inbox, only slightly It took me a few years, but I've finally and perhaps by seeing how I setup my email anonymize my emails, you'll gather a few yourself. And you'll get to meet my fictitious online This is All Things Secured, my name is Josh, to explain how I reduce my email spam to pretty benefit of email aliases, I'm also going stay organized and provides stronger security I'll finish by giving you a list of the should be using. This video is sponsored by EasyDMARC, an email own domain and want an easier way to manage I use EasyDMARC to manage the All Things Secured how much easier it is for me as a small business threats, and have the confidence of knowing And as somebody who uses email to communicate the fact that this kind of email authentication increases the deliverability of my emails. If you own your own email domain, setting what. But if you'd like some help or you want visit EasyDMARC.com and type in your URL. They have plans that can work for anybody Before we dive in, I want to make sure that to what we're talking about when we say An email alias is an email address that's This is different than an email account, or for an infinite number of email aliases. For the purpose of this video, I'm going specific account where emails are received to unique email addresses. Ok, at this point I probably have hundreds However, I only keep five active email inboxes: end to end encrypted account, a fun pseudonym, all my anonymous email addresses. Let me explain how each of these work. My personal account is just what it sounds I don't give out this Gmail address to anybody means that any email received in that inbox For you, you might have to start from scratch current inbox is already flooded with too and over time I was able to reclaim that inbox from every newsletter that I received. So it is possible. And yes, I did say Gmail account. I could use a more secure email provider here, I have other uses for end-to-end encrypted Second is my business account, which is pretty All business communication happens within and business email inboxes separate. As a small business owner, I've created this inbox, including a payments alias, an I even create a separate email alias for my it if I need to. The next inbox is also one of the most important: I use this account only for secure communication or investment accounts. Doing it this way has a few advantages. First, if I receive any kind of finance-related can be fairly confident that it's fraudulent I'm also making sure that anytime I communicate the communication can't be intercepted and I pay for my ProtonMail inbox, but that end-to-end So this alias and the corresponding inbox Period. You're never going to see me sharing this It's strictly private. Ok, now for my third inbox, which belongs I'm bleeping out the full name because the from my real name. Jason has his own email account, his own profile own social media accounts. I'm not going to go into too much detail another video about setting up a ficticious me know. i'm curious if that's of interest to you. What you need to know is that I use this alias a name and email address but I really don't my actual name and email. The important thing is that this email alias ever, check this email account. Just last weekend I went to an event with email address and phone number to participate stuff they were giving out. It had to be a real email address and phone is Jason's info, not mine. That's the beauty of aliases. Now up to this point, I've been sharing to email aliases. If you're interested in aliases and the already heard of services like Anonaddy, Apple's SimpleLogin. It's not technically an inbox, it's acts part of my strategy. These email alias services work in one of The first is to create a unique alias for have to hand over an email address. You can create these aliases manually or most extension that allow you to create aliases In either case, you're creating random aliases existing inboxes, at least that's possible become compromised or start generating too start over. Now I do want to mention that there are plenty email addresses. These are different from email aliases in control over them. They are one time use only. Perhaps that's of value to you. Personally, I prefer to maintain some semblance This whole alias thing does get tedious, though, every single login, yet. But you can use these alias services in another creating alias groups. I have an email alias that I use specifically I value those newsletters. I have another alias that I use for all social services, one for shopping accounts and one One of the reasons I do this is because when say my TV, the last thing I want to do is the random email alias that was generated I would rather have one memorable alias that And these groupings aren't all forwarded The valued newsletters, for example, are forwarded make sure they skip the inbox and go straight I only check that folder when I have time inbox clear of anything except emails from Pretty much every other alias group gets forwarded He is sacrificially taking on all the marketing have to. If you have additional questions about aliases I've missed something, I welcome comments And if you'd like to learn more about protecting email options here and explained business clicking down here.