This is one of the harshest places the desertifying savannas of West Africa. So why on earth would Ecosia try to restore anything here? And how do you even grow trees in this? Savannas are home to millions of people, But due to unsustainable grazing and intensive cultural practices, these once vivid ecosystems are turning The progress we're making here but I promise you, if you look below the surface, I have a before after on hold for you I'd show you now, but you need to understand And, most importantly, our partner Hommes et Terre is making sure that the changes they're making here, actually last for decades. That your search is in a you will have a long-term impact. Even if they're up against this nasty force of nature! Coming up: goats hungry for anything green and massive landscape restoration! By the way, in case you're new here, we're Ecosia. A search engine that puts 100% of profits into climate action. Download our free app and plant trees There's more info in the description. I travelled to Senegal with our videographer Shane and also with Melissa and Pieter, from Ecosia's tree-planting team. We were headed to Bakel, on the very eastern border of Senegal, But super simply, a savanna is a transition zone between a desert and a forest. Scientists call them a mixed grassland-woodland biome. If you've seen The Lion King, grass everywhere, and some larger patches of trees Where we're going is a little bit like that, but it's much drier. Because the Lion King was actually depicting the Serengeti, But we are going to a Sahelian Savanna. Meaning, a savannah bordering the Sahel, Most people don't know this, but grasslands and savannas store at least three times more carbon than tropical rainforests, which is why protecting these ecosystems is also crucial Looking out of the window as we drove for more than six hours Everywhere I looked, I saw scarce vegetation in a landscape There used to be not only many more trees, Giraffes, lions.... If you go into the villages and you speak with the elder people, they're still used a time when they couldn't go out at night because there was a lion. So really, it's not that long ago. Yeah, exactly. I was going to ask, Seventy? Oh wow, not that long ago! And so... what will have deforested all of this? What has been the main pressure on this land? Well, there is of course, climate change. Rainfall is less predictable and often, when it rains now, And then, of course, the enormous explosion of goats and cows. Last 10 years the goat population has almost tripled. Essentially, the drier it's become, due to unsustainable land use, but also changing rainy patterns due to climate change, the more populations have had to depend on cattle for their survival. Either to eat off it themselves or sell it off for additional income. Communities need cattle to survive, but cattle eat all the grass and the trees they see, which only exacerbates the problem. So the question is, how do we get out of this vicious cycle? Well, on every landscape So let's meet one of them. The next day I went to a community called Diecoulane, They are a young couple who lead one of the first communities that agreed to work with Ecosia's partner organization, Hommes et Terre. Their community is strongly affected by the vicious cycle of past We also sat down with Oumou, by the way, who went into detail about water scarcity It's a bit long for this video, but let me know in the comments if you'd like us to do We just went to collect water. Next we're going to another very special person that can talk You'll see. Everybody going down so elegantly and then there's me. Another big issue deforestation is causing for the communities who is a traditional doctor in his community. Often these remote communities and these plants are their only remedy It's a challenge to find someone bigger than Shane. You are bigger? I'm a little bit bigger! No...he's bigger than you! He's bigger than you, Shane! We found someone bigger than you!! An additional pressure on the trees People like Djibil and are now settled in one place, but they come from former nomadic groups, This causes many conflicts with herders whose goats graze on the grasses and trees these communities are trying to grow. So, there's two things &quot;Hommes et Terre&quot; is trying to solve here: The technical question of how to restore a land this degraded, which I will get to in the second part of the video, and the social-cultural issues such as the clash with herders. Alright, end of day! So, we spoke to Djibil and Samba. At the beginning, they were very sceptical. Afraid of land grabbing and really didn't know, if they could trust this organization. And, somehow, Hommes et Terre was like "we've got ya'!" Exactly...and somehow they convinced a lot of villages to do this. And how they do that exactly is what's so genius about this. And we're going to see tomorrow how they do it. Crazy Fatima ideas. She's inspiring craziness. Melissa! Ready for another day? Ready to rumble! Ready to rumble. The next day, we headed over to another village Once a village has expressed interest in working with our partners, Hommes et Terre will sit down with the entire This is how the exact outline of the planting site is decided upon which Hommes et Terre will then print out on paper. So, based on this map, this rough map that Hommes et Terre drew, the community is going to sit together and explain to Hommes et Terre where are the different areas on which, for example, the cattle has grazed on historically, the water points, the rivers and so on... It's some sort of an agreement. So, we saw Djibil yesterday and his village had this meeting before they officially worked with Hommes et Terre. So let's see. Exciting. Everyone is invited to these meetings -- women. men, young and old. The mapping of the sites is the key for the success of the project. It empowers the entire community to take ownership over the restoration work and it creates joy and excitement around a common project, Now, obviously, the next big challenge And trust me, that's no easy job. I couldn't be in Senegal but I still wanted to show you and just how challenging This is the technical aspect of the project. The second major hurdle Hommes et Terre faces Usually, Hommes et Terre would use big tractors, with big ploughs in the back to do what is called "earth work", so, preparing the soil so we can plant in the seeds. Now we cannot deploy those tractors in this season. So I brought a little pickax and I will show you myself. And a little warning: if it looks like I've done this before, it's because I have. So yesterday we did this already. I already dug out a half moon. But, sadly, it's so incredibly hot, that the camera overheated But, you know, f*** my life, I came here to do this and I wanted to show you, so, we're going to do it again. The reason the holes are dug in half-moon shapes is to create a sort of basin that can more easily capture rainwater, which would otherwise just run off on this flat, hard surface. It's an exhausting process, but it's worth it. Check out our video with our tree-planting experts Melissa and Pieter where they counted 2 million trees growing here, thanks to the Ecosia community. You'll find the link in the description. And also wait until the end for the before/after I promised you. So I'm actually now standing in front of one of the Ecosia trees. A one year old tree. And I wanted to show it to you. So, here's this little one. Literally little one. It might be a bit disheartening, after all everything we talked about that Hommes et Terre does, to see that the trees after one year are only this small. But this is normal. So, remember how hard it was to penetrate that soil These trees are actually doing exactly that: they're penetrating the soil, going down and starting to bring groundwater up. This tree is not only penetrating but it also has, like I know, conditions of like 40 degrees. And we're in a cold season. Oh no, he's burning his hand. He doesn't trust me and he does well! Voila, there she is! Look at her! This year in Milan: The Savanna hat. Now that the trees are planted -- or rather, the seeds -- the next step is to protect them from all threats they're exposed to: wind, long dry spells and, the biggest one, goats. Excuse me sir, could you not eat our trees? It was very hard to plant them. We left some grass next to it, so you can eat that. Right, exactly, yepp. First, Hommes et Terre will of course plant fast-growing But to keep goats from nibbling on the trees, though, they've set up &quot;fennets,&quot; -- a combination of fence and net. Unlike proper fences, these lightweight structures can be easily moved to another site after 2-3 years when the trees are strong enough to survive on their own. But to really make sure that nobody breaks the rules, Presenting: THE GREEN MEN. Every day, the Green Men roll in on their trusty bikes to watch over millions of brave, little trees determined to thrive in the dry Savanna. Nothing escapes the vigilant eyes of the Green Men. Not a single defect in the &quot;fennet&quot;. No herdsmen passing by. No shrubs concealing a young tree. No tree must ever fear the nibbling of a hungry goat. The Green Men are there to protect them. Jokes aside, the work that these guys do is super important and very inspiring. Without them, none of this would work. Someone needs to guard the fennets and talk to the people There's no one better to do that than someone that's local and knows the culture, and knows themselves why they were skeptical at the beginning. So we forgot the key to the gate. So, instead, we have to climb up over this thing. So, here we go. One proof that Sangare was right, the Green Man, that it's not really about the fennet because anyone can jump it. It's about talking to people and convincing them that what they're doing here is right. As we reach the end of our journey here, and before I show you the before/after I promised, it felt important to me to reflect on what this project and these landscapes mean for you and I. If these woodland-grasslands become a desert, we lose biodiversity, food security; we lose ground to climate warming, affecting millions and forcing people to leave their homes. And finally, let's get to that before/after. There was this moment when we were taking a drone shot I couldn't quite grasp what I was seeing until I Now, at first glance, it might not seem like much, but now you two can appreciate the difference. On the left, a protected area with a &quot;fennet&quot; So I hope, that after meeting Djibil, Oumou, Samba, and everybody else, you know the hard work that's gone into getting those We're already growing more than 2 million trees here, but we can use all the help we need to plant millions more. So make sure to download Ecosia, if you haven't done so yet, Maybe it's a little bit selfish, but when I see landscapes It just makes me think, f***. In 20 years Spain is going to look the same if we don't stop deforestation and degradation. We have the same problem, right, big landscapes without any grass, any trees Of course, the trees are very small, because we're in a very dry area. So, when we monitor[ed] [the trees], we need to really look for But it's full of grass, and that grass And that's already And it's just so impressive. To come to this site and see it like this. It really, honestly gives me hope. It sounds very cheesy, but it really gives me hope that restoration can actually work even in the driest of the places. If we come together and do things right,