(rousing warble) - Hi, I'm Jacques Pepin. You know even today I'm still influenced by the person who cooked Of course, that's my mother. And today I'm making A creamy heart warming, garlic A really homey roast of veal with lots of pearl onion and artichokes. and for dessert, a light with a sauce of mango then dark rum. This kind of cooking with naturally good ingredient, never goes out of style. And my friend, Alice Waters from Chez Panisse restaurant will stop by to encourage us to get back to way my mama always done it. Coming up on Today's Gourmet. (they speak french) (upbeat, happy music) Today I'm cooking real home, home cooking. cooking that my mother does. My mother's favorite I call it. And, uh, those type of dish, you know, a roast that we are doing today is the type of thing that I grew up with. We're having a garlic and we're doing a, ah, a veal and all of those are very The important part in this, you know, often is the ingredient. I mean at home we used to have ingredient in the garden behind, I mean from the potato and all that and it did make a big difference. And that's how I remember We're starting with and as you see that piece which indicate a type of veal as opposed to what is sometime milkfed veal, which is fed only the mother's milk. That calf here already start grazing. And starting grazing, of course, will give iron to the calf otherwise the taste really What we are doing, however, I'm removing most of the fat from the top, you know, as you can see here. And we are going to roast that first on top of the stove. But you see it's how important to remove that type of fat. There is also certain farm or your butcher, can probably get to you a type of organically raised, uh, veal, you know, and you have to pay maybe a little more for Then what we are going to do put a little bit of olive oil in there and a dash of butter. (lid clatters) I am not using much butter maybe half a tablespoon we're putting thyme leaves, you know, all over, home style. Cracked pepper on top, (grinding pepper) ...all over. just to give it a nice flavor. A bit of salt and that's about all you want to start with, You know? Then we'll start it browning brown it all around, you Often people tell you to brown retain the juice inside and note, to a certain extent it does, but mostly the browning is to give crystallize the juice on top and give not only the color, that is the difference in a boiled piece of meat, You know? Then, while this is for like eight, 10 minutes around, we are going to start our garlic soup. And I have leek here, I have onion, I have garlic and potato. We put water or chicken stock in it. Uh, the garlic soup we do often where I come from. Is binded with different things. Sometime we bonding with leftover bread, sometime with potato, and sometime with another type of starch, like tapioca or semolina or but very often my mother would garlic stock and she would have old bread that she cut into the soup therin and put the mixture That's a very good way of doing it too. I'm going to put the little bit of peanut oil for that to saute. And first we are sauteing Notice that the leak that I add here I add most have the green just cut the damaged leaf from the outside but there is no reason to This is one of the best part of it. So this, the onion, I'm going across and here. It really doesn't matter remember we're going to strain it. Now, the classic French soup, sometime it's cut in tiny And sometime, it is cut coarsely as I'm doing here and put through the strainer. and they say that Pudhach Paul Montier so called, Paul Montier was a man from the 18th century, would develop the potato twas an engineer. So we saute the, the and cut the potato. You can do your potato ahead, peel them, providing you, keep them in water. So they don't discolorate. I don't want to wash them need a little bit of starch creaminess in the soup. The garlic, you can hit a that will separate your cloves. And to peel your clove cut After you peel the end you can crush it a little bit and now the skin will release, You see? That the best way to peel garlic. Then look at it, if there is any damaged spot like here I'll remove it. So I put a whole bunch of garlic like 10, 12 cloves in there, we have a lot of garlic in that menu but... it's fine with me, I love garlic. So, we mix it in there. Maybe I can turn my veal here we start Browning on And... now the potato. Very simple soup. In that case here, we have a very clear stock, no And two cup of water. But it could be completely water, or completely chicken stock also. It's fine. Maybe a little dash of salt, now, You cover it, bring it to a boil, and you want to boil it about 25, 30 minutes, that'd be more than enough to cook your potato and your leek. While you see it's not really something which take that long to do. And you can do it ahead to cook it and strain it. sometime, you know, for special party, we finish it with cream I think in our case today maybe I'll put a little bit of milk Now, with the soup we serve crouton also. the conventional way of is to put oil and butter But that again, give you a lot of calorie. What I like to do is to put in top of the crouton themselves and roll the crouton into that oil, Just to moisten it a so that you have just And then when you feel that then you can put them directly So you don't absorb too much oil, I mean, I may have a tablespoon of oil here. If I were to put that amount of crouton in a skillet with oil, that amount of bread will absorb like uh, a quarter, a quarter of a cup of oil, So that lower your calorie a little bit. And really when those crouton are full of oil you bite into it sometime you have crouton in a salad, you bite into it and it is not particularly good. But those go into the oven And I'm taking some other one, which I've been browning here... ...here we are, and I'm You know, crouton are good but don't do them too much ahead too I mean, those will get rancid less because they've been done with oil. If they are done with butter they will get rancid But they are good when and it's really not Now, the veal is still browning. (veal sizzling) You got a nice piece of And for the garnish of the veal we are going to use artichokes and onion, we have those tiny, uh.. ...tiny pearl onion here, peel a lot of garlic and artichokes. I have done artichokes already. In that case, there is which is too tough that you cannot use, so what I'm going to do first around the stem. I want to But there is ah, a layer of fiber around which is fairly tough, so I remove it. Okay. Then I removed the end of the And around a little bit, the tough part... ...which are really the For this, you know, especially in Provence in France they'll use the tiny artichokes. So that now I can cut it into four piece and get the inside ear, which is your uh, your choke, you know? That said, this is what you want to do. Now, the artichokes is eatable, I mean the whole thing here, I have some done already this way. But what we are going to do And uh, I'll plate the veal outside, put my artichokes in there and tiny onion, a lot of garlic... (vegetables sizzling) You want to saute that you know a bed of vegetable here. I plate the veal right back you cover it, and at that point I cook, I could cook that in the I'm going to leave it on top for about 20 to 30 minute. And during that time I'm Now I have a, a double boiling starting to boil here, but I have one which is completely cooked. The same thing then that, and I want to puree it in the food If I put the whole soup because I have a lot of liquid in it, the soup tend to be a little So it whip it too much. so I remove most of the rather I take out, and Now I can put it in there and because I need to put it back in there This plus this, and now that liquid can go back into my pan here. What I have to do is to process this. (food blender whirring) And very often, you know, I will do that ahead, and to that extent you can even freeze Now here, this is nicely pureed Now as you can see that a nice of the leak, which is what you want. You can taste it for seasoning again, seeing the way that we cook the vegetable. We never lose anything, the water of the vegetable Mmh, I think it's good this You can add a lot of And what I want to do is to as I said we put cream sometime, if you want to make it richer, or frankly, you can leave it without but it's conventional to finish soup with a little That's it, you can If you want with the milk, in any case, you won't put the meal before You know? And the soup is now ready to and I have some chervil nice herb that I like with So this is really home for me, You know? When I feel sad, I need a bowl of leek and potato soup, you know? A few crouton on top of it, uh, what we call (speaks French) you know, pieces like that of And this is really the (lighthearted piano music) There is no possible great food And for that, we have an Alice Waters of Chez Panisse, in Berkeley. And it's so nice to have you here. I know how passionate you and I have cooked in your restaurant, I've eaten in your restaurant many time, And I was always very impressed the people who supply the food for us. Is it really worth the price? You know, if you pay more. - Well, of course I think it it's a wonderful flavor, but that taken for granted more the people that are growing of the land. And that's and we need to support the growing things with that consideration. - They take care of themselves, also, they take care of our But, do you think that some people will tell you, I know that it's more perishable and it's one of the problem, right? - Well, I think there's a lot of things that affect the taste. I mean, it's, it's how it's grown, how carefully it's grown, It's what variety has been planted. It's when that, that how ripe it is, and then And so the closer you can get the more possibilities you have. - I had apricot in your and oh, I thought I was because we were really that was terrific. And when people tell you that if they're organic, I mean, but someone take care of them. I knew if you handle them too much, that they are perishable, right? - But they all have little of what I call &quot;charming irregularities&quot;. And whether it's a little brown spot, - Uh huh. that can be cut off. I mean, you can't expect that when you're, you're not search, you're searching for a flavor and a taste. And sometimes they're a little a little bit small, but it's, particularly if you're buying supermarket that you asked for - Uh huh. they're very fragile and they don't have shelf life. - No, we have, we have to It's important for the land or the state, It is important for us. And I know how busy you have, thank you, Thank you so much for coming. And now I'm going to finish my veal. - My pleasure. - See you. So in our veal that we have we add the sauce, we add the artichokes, The only thing that we want to put next is a bit of tomato to A little bit of a fresh tomato. And again, you know, talking about organic food and I am, you know, so intense and interested I have my own garden and I use only organic stuff in my garden. When you have a fresh tomato you know, just out of your garden, it does make a terrific difference. So here I have a little a dash of water and the tomato, and that's going to finish And now we are going to move to the dessert that we are doing today. And the dessert is an almond cake recipe that my mother also does made with slice almond, sugar, a little I put some of the sugar and we're going to ground this. Uh, this used to be called a (speaks French) and a which was much richer I keep grounding that And here I have three egg yolk. And in my egg yolk, I I should keep one tablespoon I have a dash of vanilla. I mean, I remember doing that recipe where we put eight egg yolk, where we put half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, it is not a question of It's a question of cutting important, and we can still do a terrific cake have dash of milk, a dash of uh... a dash of oil in it, and you'll now we add that sugar this is all really a fast cake, You know, that you do quite quick It's one of those cakes which now have been done in but it's not that new And on this side, I have my egg white, which I've been beating here. No, that cake is not, of course, without calories, but we've just sourced it which is not enormous, you know? So we mix our egg white, which Fold that together, gently, notice again that I make the bowl turn with one hand, you know, while I'm folding with the light, like this. Almond cake, we used to call the bread from Genoa in Italy, a classic dish as I said used but it is quite good this way. So this we have now to go into the oven about 350 degree in the It depends this is a nine we'll put that on the side. I have one which is that we are going to unmold later on. And with that, we're going to do a sauce. And the sauce is made with mango . Although you can use another I like to do it with mango. So I have here a mango, as you can see, this one is cut in half or And what you can do often that took a conventional and just twisting this out, you know? very often you will be That's one way of taking it out for me. I can do that or cutting it with a knife, the flesh of the mango if the fruit is not ripe, It doesn't have any taste, but I should be able to We have about a pound I have one and a half Mango and with this, sometime they are readier like that I like them when they are I have a tablespoon of some lemon juice, a little bit of water and I put couple of maybe in there again, you know, honey I remember in the farm when we had honey which came from organic it wasn't called organic it was the way things were, you know? And we had that honey it was different flavor from the market. And that was good. So, this is going to turn for a minute. We can do a terrific sherbet by freezing it makes a great sherbet. And what we want to do Here... taking the oh, the paper stayed in the bottom here, that's good. This is about fine. And I like to turn the It's a bit nicer on this side, I think, with the top without the hole and we're going to serve it directly uh, in there. I have the sauce... nice creamy. So that's very good. We'll serve that on that plate. A little bit of the sauce Very simple food as you can see. This, a slice of cake we I think it can serve and it will serve eight portion And here we are, maybe with a little our beautiful dessert And now of course, we have to finish the veal, for quite a while with the rest. We're going to take our veal out here like this and I'm going to slice it directly on the board here. We have some so that we'll that time of homemade dish, you know, the tomato are in there, artichokes bottom, the whole thing. This is really type of food around a table with the you know, you thought that that type of color also, you know? So some of this, a little bit of uh, my veal on this side, a couple of slice, I like to bring it to the the whole roast, you know, with maybe a couple of it's really in the bourgeois, some herbs, you're beautiful chervil that I put on top a bit all over. And here we have our roast And now let's bring our a dish that my mother relish, I wish she could be with us eating for us, I'm going to tell her that all her life, she was organic. You know that she I'm sure not aware of it and what does that mean, it she always keep the peeling of the vegetable, what's leftover and that's good, my father was doing a compost pile, you know, to use for his garden, and First he'd save it, (speaks French) it means no pesticide, no insecticide, natural fertilizer so that and all this, and this is and this is the way I like to cook, And I like to uh, to do my garden myself. In any case, we have a The soup here, a soup with the potato, a lot of garlic in it, strong smell, nice crouton on top of it. This is a soup you can have hot as well as cold without the Crouton. We have that roast veal the artichoke, the tiny onion in it. I mean our whole menu We have very moderate, fat content. We have a salad. You can have you have a lot of green, beautiful they are. And of course we splurge a remember that at home most of I finished with my salad or a fruit, but when I have guests at home, I like to do a little dessert do with the, that mango sauce I'm sure you're going to enjoy it. I sure hope that you're going friend. I enjoy making it for you. Happy cooking. (gentle piano music)