Boss Top hackers from all over the world are collectively attacking our network. I'm afraid it takes less than three minutes. Our server is about to crash. Just fake data. If you want it, give it to him. It's all our bait. Otherwise, how can I take advantage of this opportunity? Anti-theft of their data Intercepted and blocked, counterattack succeeded You went to so much trouble to find this guy? Daddy, I finally found you. Guanyuan Qihai Shenque The patient recovered his vital signs. It's a miracle. It can all be saved. Thanks to Dr. Shen. I'll leave the rest to you. You don't have to say thanks. Have you checked out what I asked you to look into? According to the appraisal report, That man's DNA matches yours. I'm sure it's an immediate family relationship. That man is really my daddy. The difficulty of Carmen Fantasia is world-class. The child is so young that he can finish it. It's a genius. That's amazing. Won the championship of the International Junior Group Is there any acceptance speech? Daddy, if you can get this message, Come and claim us. Boss, the company has been attacked by a number of companies shorting. Stocks have been falling. The board of directors asked you how to deal with it. Never mind I arranged all this. Take advantage of the opportunity to buy back the company's shares It's time to change the position of the largest shareholder. Boss, according to your request. A 24-hour circular advertising space on a television station. Has been robbed by us at a high price. What are we going to do to use? Post a missing person notice Find my daddy. What are you looking at? go! Babies, we came back to see our aunt this time. You have to be obedient. Mom, are we gonna see Dad? About dad. Mom has said it many times. At the right time Mom will tell you. Well, don't blame us for finding it ourselves. Mom, I have to pee. Mom, we have to pee, too. good Sissy, wait here for Mom. I'll take them to the bathroom. Yeah. Wow So handsome. The young son of Wang's group. Has challenged us for the third time. Said he wanted to bring down our Fu's Group. What are we supposed to do? How can the Wang Group hang up its teeth? Let me know. Tomorrow morning I want to see the news of Wang's bankruptcy liquidation. By the way, one more thing. We bought it at the TV station. The ad space is played on a 24-hour cycle. It was taken away by a mysterious man who spent a lot of money. Said he was looking for Dad. Looking for dad? I'll double the price. Get it back for me. But Boss Fu After all, it has been eight years since then. Why don't you forget it? Before that woman was found that night, This missing person notice must be hung 24 hours a day. daddy Daddy. That's weird. Why does this little girl feel a little kind for no reason? Kid, I'm not your daddy. Are you separated from your parents? Oh The devil, who hates children most, laughed. I must be hallucinating. You're my dad. I'm just here to see your daddy. I'm Sisi. Sissy? You go to the kid's parents. Yeah, let's go. Qian Hello What's up I have a child missing. Please take care of them for me. I'm going to find the kids. good Things, you take care of your two brothers I'll find Cece. Okay, Mommy. Cece, Sissy, Sissy. Shen Xiqian West Come on, I'll take you to your family. Yeah Shen Xixi West West Is this your baby? West This is my daughter Sissy, are you okay? I'm fine. Thank you. My daughter is so naughty. Who sent you? I've been drugged. Help me. I was drugged, too. Something's gonna happen to you here. Go. Sorry To save my sister. I have to stay here tonight. I've been looking for you for eight years. Finally found you. Long time no see. The child's mother I didn't even know I wanted to be a father. What nonsense? He's not your kid. not mine? Whose else could it be? Qianqian The father is here. You just let go. Mr. Qianqian Yes, the answer is me. The landlord. CeCe, you leaky cotton-padded jacket. Don't fool your mother with me again. My husband, Xi Xi, is lost. It was this gentleman who helped me find him. Thank you, sir. Helped me and my wife get the baby back. He's your wife. Yeah, let's all get married. Ah, seven or eight years. Thank you again, sir. Helped me get my baby back. There's nothing else. Let's just go. Honey, let's go. I didn't expect that this woman was really married. Yeah It's been eight years. Mommy, you're finally home. Hee hee, where have you been? I found Daddy. Really? is it as handsome as a picture? Of course Daddy is the most handsome man I've ever seen. Shen Xixi, don't talk nonsense. No running around in the future. You worried Mommy to death. Got it, Mommy. West West will never run around again in the future. I thought you told us who Daddy was. Oh. Babies, I promise. After that, the right time has come. I'll tell you who Daddy is. Okay, Uncle Wenguang is coming to pick us up. Let's go home together. Yeah. Hello What? Liyun's condition has deteriorated. Okay, I'll be right there. What happened to Liyun? Take the kids home first. I'm going to the hospital. Mommy, I'm going, too. How's the doctor Lin Yun doing? The patient has just undergone a rescue. It's all right for now. As for the follow-up treatment I hope your families will be psychologically prepared in advance. Okay, thank you, Doctor. Li Yun, get better soon. Send it back to your room first. good You should pay attention to this. Ah Hao, thank you. Ah, Grandma. Why are you here alone? My grandson found me a lot of people to take care of me. I'm tired of being sent away by me. I just want to get a pot of water. I didn't expect to be so old. It's useless. Grandma, I'll go back and have a rest. Let me draw this pot of water for you. Where is your ward? Go Nannan, you have a good rest. I'll be back soon. Mommy, let me take care of Grandma for you. My Nannan is really good. What a good boy. Your mother is a good girl, too. What if Han Chun is next to him? I wish I had people like you. Granny, I'm here. You and my aunt will get better. Me and your aunt. All live in this intensive care unit. Our illness. It's not easy to cure. Grandma, don't worry. I'm here, no matter what's wrong with you and my aunt. I will find a way to cure you. Why did he look so much like Han Chuan when he was a child? Shen Qianqian, what is she doing here? At that time, I was kind enough to help you sell your first night. And you slept with the man I was going to sleep with. Sorry I have to treat my sister. I must not go. Take my money. It's not a promise not to come back after going abroad. What backed out? My sister is very ill. I have to come back to see her. It's just getting worse. It's not dead. Just wait for your sister to die It's not too late to come back and collect her body. Zhao Shuirou You were the one who said you were willing to pay to save my sister. I just promised you not to come back after going abroad. I can't believe you drugged me. Not only did you not cure my sister's illness, And tried to prevent our sisters from seeing each other. Now my sister's days are numbered. I have to come back to see her. Yo, stayed abroad for a few years. It's a lot tougher. Zhao Shuirou, do you think I'm still afraid of you? Yeah Why is it so noisy outside? Grandma, you have a good rest. I'm gonna go see what's going on out there. Then I'd like to see how many pounds you have. Let go of my mommy. You're a little animal. How dare you bite me? Why is Shen Qingqing's son so much like Brother Han Chuan? Looks like seven or eight years old. Was it the night between him and Brother Han Chuan eight years ago? Does this kid pay Han Chuan? What? Is it Han Chuan's son? What nanny? Nai is the son of Han Chuan. Not Grandma. He is not Han Chuan's son. That's right, Grandma. How could he be brother Han Chuan's son? How does this grandmother know Fu Hanchuan? Grandma's background must not be exposed. Grandma, I have something urgent. I'm gonna go. Don't leave so fast. You should at least let me see this kid. No wonder I feel familiar. It turns out he is Han Chuan's child. Han Chuan Come to me for a moment. I found your own son. Grandma, he's not. He's not his son. Little girl. I didn't mean anything. I'm a dying man. I'm just trying to figure out what happened to Nannan. And I hope you understand me as an old lady. Grandma, what happened to you? Are you all right Nannan, I'm going to see a doctor. Nannan, let me help you back to the ward first. Grandma is such a good boy. If only it were Grandma's great-grandson. Grandma, take care of your health. The child Maybe he just happens to look like Han Chuanke. You mustn't Because this kind of wild boy from unknown source I hurt my body. You're talking nonsense How can such a lovely child be a wild child? Grandma, you don't know. This Shen Qianqian is in a mess. Qian Qian is a good girl. I forbid you to talk about her like that. Nannan, you said you found my son. What does that mean? How is that possible? Why does this little boy look so much like me? I've been clean all these years. Was it with Shen Qianqian eight years ago? Grandma, the doctor is here. Get out. Old lady, look at this. You get out of here. Grandma Shen Qianqian said Nannan is my son. Not him, not you. Sam's son. He... he's me and my husband. Stop making such a noise I've got someone to do a paternity test. The results will be delivered in a minute. If he were my son. I will be responsible for you. I will marry you right away. The old lady's paternity test results are back. The old lady personally identified the results. What are you tensed about Shen Nannan, he is not Shen Qianqian, you disappoint me so much. After that, Nannan's life experience will be exposed. What should I do Shen Nannan is not even my son. Why did you mislead Grandma? It was so innocent. He just tried his best to get close to Hanchuan Pavilion. Even a broken shoe wants to touch a dog to eat. How was this possible Go and do a paternity test with Han Chuan immediately. I want the results as soon as possible. Understood I must not let Shen Qianqian take it away from me. Brother Han Chuan must not Brother Han Chuan, go back first. I'll take care of Grandma for you. If only the baby were mine. If it wasn't for my quick hands and feet, Or you will succeed. Get your son out of here right now. If because of this, Ruined my marriage to Brother Hanchuan. Be careful of your sister and son. So it's you. You what? you. What else can I do for you? Why don't you go? Grandma, let's go. You're a bad woman. Actually bullied my mother. Let's see how I get you back to who you are, huh? Uncle Wen Guang What are you guys doing here? Sissy has been crying at home. Let me bring him to you. Uncle Kay, I don't want to see them again. Why is Sisi disobedient today? And asked Uncle Wen Guang to see you off. It's obviously Uncle Wen Guang who wants it himself. Look at the aunt how to let the children carry the pot. You little brat. Uncle Wenguang, stop. Shen Qianqian, how long are you going to keep it from me? These kids are not even his. These kids are not even his. You're mistaken The children are all mine. Did I ask you? I... I want him to tell me himself. I ate contraceptive eight years ago. I swear he said everything I said. That's enough. Are you sure you don't tell your real father the truth about your child? I have my reasons. Get your son out of here right now. If this destroys my marriage to Brother Han Chun Be careful of your sister and son. Why would you call me daddy? And what are you doing here? A woman can't even look after her children. Look at this. Confirm the relationship between father and son Confirm the relationship between father and son Is that true? Of course it's true. Daddy, we are both born. Previous paternity test report Someone must have tampered with it. Daddy, you don't believe me. We can check it again. Of course I believe you. Shen Nannan, do you know your mommy's cell phone number? know Shen Qianqian Nannan is with me. If you want to see him, Meet me at Fuji Group. You can't escape me this time. Nana, mommy. Take a look at this. Who gave you the appraisal certificate? It doesn't matter who gave it to me. The important thing is that Shen Nannan is my son. I said I'd be responsible for you, didn't I? Let me explain. Ah, and that sullen one. That little girl can't be my child, too, is she? Nannan can't keep it anymore. The other kids must never let him know. No. If you're worried about status, You can rest assured that I will marry you right away. And give you the biggest wedding ever. I'm gonna put our baby To all the people in Haicheng. Let's become a family of four that everyone envies. Not Shen Xixi. She's not your child. And Cisi and Nannan were born in different places. If you don't believe me, check it out. And I don't want to marry you. Fu Haichun hates being lied to him most. If he knew I was in his bed for money, Maybe he'll go to the mother and stay with the child. Why Because Because I'm married. My husband is Wen Guang. He's also the father of my children. He is the one I love. good From now on Nannan will be raised by me. Why should I leave it to you to raise? I've been raising him for eight years. He's my son. Because of your dereliction of duty as a mother. You let a kid Come to me alone. Based on that. You don't deserve to raise my son anymore. Daddy, don't blame Mommy. Mommy takes care of us every day. I have to go out to work. Nannan is not well-behaved. Have to go out. You took my son without permission for eight years. Now it's time to come back and live a better life with me. Do you have a better offer than me? Shen Qianqian, you lead a wandering life alone. Stop dragging down my kids. Hey, Wenguang, what's going on? If the illness suddenly falls at dawn Come to the hospital quickly. What? okay, I'll be right there. Fu Hanchuan will leave Nannan to your care for the time being. If he is aggrieved at all I won't spare you. What now? I can take you there. You don't have to thank me. My grandmother is in the same hospital as your sister. Let me give you a lift. Nannan is going, too. How are you feeling, sister? Sister, you're finally back. I miss you so much all these years. Don't talk. Save your strength. I'm back. With me here, I can still see my sister contented. Li Yun, you have to hold on. Family members stop. The patient needs surgery. Doctor, how is my sister? This crisis is over. But I have to talk to your families. Follow-up treatment Send someone with me. I'll go. I'll go. Okay. My aunt's illness is getting worse and worse. We should treat her as soon as possible. You have to ask Beibei and things to come and help. I'll go to the bottom, too, okay? Let me stay with Mommy. Yeah Liyuan, wake up. Liyuan Find me the best medical team. To make you think. Brother Wen Guang, actually, I have a secret. It's been hidden in my heart for a long time. I know I don't have much to do. But I've been afraid to tell you. In fact, there's a secret in my heart that I haven't told you. Actually, I've always liked you. But I know you've always treated me like a brother. No, Brother Wen Guang. I like you, too Actually, I've had a crush on you for a long time. But I know what's wrong with my body. I'm afraid to tell you. I'm afraid I'll drag you down. How could that be? What I've always liked is you. No matter your birth, old age, sickness or death Aren't you Shen Qianqian's husband? I can't believe you hooked up with his sister. Shameless There's no shame on you. Unexpectedly let Qian Qian raise the children alone. Kids. Kids. What do you mean Literal meaning Wanchuan, let go. Wang Guang, let go first. Brother Wang Guang, stop fighting. Lingyun, don't worry. I'm fine. You're just fine. Don't get too excited. You are such a friendly person. Still care about your sister-in-law in front of your wife. Fu Hanchuan, are you crazy? What are you talking about? Brother Wen Guang doesn't have a wife. Do you misunderstand? Ling Yun, don't say. Brother Wen Guang and I love each other. Where did you get the betrayal? Isn't he your brother-in-law? Brother Wen Guang is not my brother-in-law. My sister, eight years ago, One person gave birth to four babies abroad. Unable to return to China for some reasons All are taken care of by Brother Wen Guang. Four children. What happened to the other two kids? No, I only have two kids. My sister has been sick for too long. There's something wrong with my memory. Mommy, we're here to see your aunt. Four children. You have two other kids. Mommy Shen Qianqian What's going on with the other two kids? You let go of my sister. Fu Anchuan, it was just an accident between you and me. You have your fiancee. I have my children. Dad, I lived with other men abroad. Is that a problem? Okay, you. It's still tough, isn't it? Give me a survey of Shen Qianqian and his four children Oh, no. If Fu Wanchuan really finds out, The existence of four children It's bound to take them all away. Shen Qianqian, I'll give you another chance. If you admit it. I reserve your visitation rights as the mother of the child. otherwise Be prepared to never see them for the rest of your life. I admit it Vice President, we have a result of what you asked me to look into. What other three children are one year younger than Nannan? I see It shouldn't be. The four children were born together. What's going on? Yes, I've released Mommy. The cat doesn't want Daddy to know who you are. What if Daddy finds out who we are? Mommy should be sad. Never mind Let me help Mommy. Take care of the vice president The results of your investigation Are you satisfied this time? Shen Qianqian, don't let me know you're lying to me. Otherwise, you will come to no good end. Try threatening the whole world again. What does it have to do with you? Should I take it with me? Don't take my baby. I would never put my child To a goddess like you. Daddy and Mommy Did you guys have a fight? Nannan, Daddy and Mommy didn't fight. It's just that I disagree. Mommy, everyone has a daddy. Nannan also wants to have a daddy. Mommy Just let me live with Daddy for a while. Okay, I promise. But who will bully you in the future? Just tell Mommy. I'll take care of my son. Go Keep compassion What? Nannan followed Dad back to his father's house. Is it true that we will leave Nannan in the future? Hee hee, don't you always want to Live with a handsome dad? Yes, but I'm more reluctant to give up. Nannan, don't worry. I've arranged it all. After Nannan gets to the Fu family, I brought Mom and Dad together. Rise In the future, the six members of our family can live together. But how to set up Mom and Dad? Then it's up to me. Hello Congratulations on successfully passing the interview of Suzuki Group. Really? thank you so much. Report to the office tomorrow morning. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Director Lin Thank you for giving me such a well-paid job. May I ask what the assistant to the chairman needs to do? Ms. Shen, your job It was arranged by our chairman personally for you. After what the chairman said You can ask anyone in the company to see you. If you see the chairman But I have no family with the chairman. Why would the chairman do this? The whereabouts of the chairman is secret. No one in the whole company has ever seen him. Your only task is to listen to the arrangement of the chairman. Just do what he asked you to do. This is the first thing the chairman wants you to do. Acquisition of Fuji Group in the name of our Suzuki Group Isn't Fuji Group Fu Hanchuan's industry? Isn't this a good chance from God? When our company bought you, Fu Hanchuan I see how you still fight with me. What are you doing here? You don't want my son back, do you? Today, I am in my capacity as general manager of Suzuki Group. To buy your Fuji Group. Oh. Suzuki Group also wants to buy us Fuji Group. You have such a big tone. I've already investigated it. although Your Fuji Group has many subsidiaries in China. But according to the domestic stock value of our Suzuki Group, And its influence in the country. It's okay to buy you. I bid 2 billion. That Miss Shen Have you ever thought about What you know is only the tip of our Fuji iceberg. What about the business scope of our company? Mainly overseas. Yours is a mere 2 billion. Not even one of our departments can be acquired. What? you? Don't do it. Buy the dream of Fuji Group. But If you want to get rich or want your kids back, There are other ways. What way? Marry me So you don't have to take your kids around looking for a job. Can still be with them. Fan Chuan, who do you despise? Marry you in a dream. Just wait and see. Monster son. I have plenty of ways. I thought you said you were going to set up Daddy and Mommy. How come Mommy was bullied by Daddy? Blame me for not only checking daddy's domestic company information. Unexpectedly, the main funds of Fuji Group are overseas. But my Suzuki Group's main battlefield is at home. If overseas funds are involved I won't be able to beat Daddy's reexamination. Mommy was right. Men can be trusted. The sow will climb the tree So what do we do now? Let me see I came up with a better idea. Let Daddy apologize to Mommy. Yeah, that's a good idea. It's done. You can wait and see. Do a good job in dealing with the aftermath Don't let a fool find out about my orders. The vice president is not good. Our financial system has been compromised. Vice President, our network is still down. The communication system of the deputy head office is out of use. What happened Check the time. Shen Qianqian just found me. Say we'll see about it later. Now something has happened to Fuji Group. Is it Shen Qianqian's fault? The vice president found the hacker's last IP address. Shown in Suzuki Group I'm going to go to Suzuki Group in person. Talk to Shen Qianqian Brother Han Chuan, I heard Shen Qianqian hired someone to attack the vice hacker. I didn't expect this Shen Qianqian to be so shameless. You take me to Suzuki Group. I'll get justice for you. Zhao Shuirou, our engagement Just to deal with the cooperative relationship at home. Now the 8-year engagement is coming. Don't go too deep into the play. Damn you. Shen Qianqian spoiled me eight years ago. If I was the one who entered Han Chuan's room eight years ago, He must be devoted to me right now. No, I can't leave them alone. Shen Qianqian The internal system of our Fuji Group computer All have been captured. Did you do this? Fu Hanchuan, are you crazy? Why would I need a hacker to attack your company? Brother Han Chuan, I had no idea. Shen Qianqian can do such a terrible thing to hurt you. Don't play dumb with me. I can't believe it. I can't believe you're such a two-faced woman. Who did it three times on two sides? Don't you need double-dealing with people like you? And I said what I didn't do is that I didn't do it. Don't pretend to be here with me Just deactivate the system, or else Brother Hanchuan, calm down. Angry for the people who worked under the means of Shen Qianqian. It's not worth Zhao Shuirou I told you I didn't do it. I just didn't do it. You shut up your little mouth. It's disgusting. Brother Han Chuan I know Shen has been having a misunderstanding about me today. Maybe that's why. Only then did he find someone to target Fu. Why are you pretending to be close to Fu Hanchuan in front of me? All these years, you followed Fu Hanchuan. You're just a fiancee who hasn't had a chance. you Brother Han Chuan is an outsider. How can you talk about me so unscrupulously? Stop pretending. Have you slept with Fu Wanchuan all these years? Otherwise, why don't you have a child? Shen Qingtian, you talk to me with respect. What's the matter? love him. I love him. You haven't married her for so many years. Shen Qianqian All your kids live with wild men, right? I'm not like you seducing wild men everywhere. Then I'll show you how I seduce wild men. Shen Qianqian, if you dare to attack the deputy commander again, Don't blame me for using overseas forces to annex your demons. Zhao Shuirong What happened today is that you set me up behind your back. Guys, this has nothing to do with me. Let's just say you're unlucky. Our account should be calculated carefully. Eight years ago, you promised me. To give my sister the best medical resources. That's why I promised you not to come back after going abroad. But you didn't keep your promise. Treat him well. Now I'm back. Do you think I'll let you continue to bully me? A slut who would do anything for money A short-lived ghost. It didn't kill you two. What an idiot. Who do you think is short-lived? You say that again. Shen Qianqian, how dare you hit me? You. You. Let me go. Don't think I don't know. Today's operations It's all to get close to brother Hanchuan, this bitch. The means are really clever now. Don't you dare threaten me with my family again. I can't recruit you. Is it Don't think you're back home now. When he and Brother Han Chuan have children, they can do whatever they want. I'm his fiancee. I still have you in my phone for medical treatment. Beg for my video. I can send it to him at any time. Do you think I'm afraid of him, you know? I don't want to marry him. It's you. I'm afraid you don't even have a chance to marry him. He hates being cheated the most. How dare you? do I dare? Do you want to try it? Young Shen, don't be impulsive. Think about your children. It's because of the kids that I put up with you. Next time, if you bully me again, I won't spare you. Shen Qingqing is really crazy now. You think I'm afraid of you? We'll see. What are you looking at? get out. Where is Shen Qianqian's son now? Find a way to make him disappear. I must be crazy. Vice president Vice president I have hired a lot of top international engineers. But there is still no way to crack the hacker's attack. Now the group's network is in a state of paralysis. If it goes on like this The secrets of the company are only in danger. What do we do now? How could Shen Qianqian hire such a powerful hacker? Want the Fuji Group crisis to be resolved. The deputy team must go to Shen Qianqian in person to apologize. And get Ms. Shen's forgiveness. If you don't do it, Or you will suffer the consequences. Yo Why did the vice president bring roses to me? What, aren't you afraid your fiancee is jealous? Shen Qianqian I'm here to apologize for my rashness. Why don't we sit down in a restaurant and have a chat? Why did Fu Hanchuan suddenly become so nice? I'd like to see what he's up to. Well, then I recommend a restaurant. Does the vice president mind? Okay, take your pick. As far as I know, Mr. Fu This restaurant is not necessarily the best. But it must be the most expensive. Many business leaders can't come. Let you bring me here for dinner. You don't care about money, do you? As long as it is chosen by Miss Shen. I will accompany you to the end. What about before the waiter came? I ordered something casually. What's not to your taste? Be at home by yourself Fu Haichuan had to bleed today. You don't have to look. Except for the cheapest two. Everything else. Uh, sir. If you do it all. This table doesn't fit. It seems that Shen Qianqian is still a material girl. Just do what she says. Put it next door if it can't fit. Is there anything else you want? Yeah, I took a look. These are not enough. I'll have another one. Bring it to the children and have a taste. Yeah, it should be. The landlord of my new rent is nice and enthusiastic. Give it to him, too. Why don't you bring a copy for your uncle downstairs? Good idea. Well, this task that was packed and delivered in person. I'll give it to your minions. Yeah. Shen Qingqing finally rode on my head. I'm sure you won't let me go so easily. Scrap the company. I'll bear it first. OK What else do you want? Okay. You went to so much trouble to invite me here for dinner. Come on, what's up? Actually, I'm here today. Just wanted to apologize to you. The mood between me is a little bit. Excited. I hope you can forgive me. Well, I forgive you. good You don't mind the disrespect and suppression I treated you before. There's nothing to argue about. I just wanted to take it out. I also know that with my current financial ability, It can't give the children a better life. Instead, I wish you could let me see more of the kids. You can be nicer to the kids. This woman is kind of interesting. OK From today on, if you want to see Nannan, I'll pick you up at any time. Daddy and Mommy made up. The plan is successful Deputy mm-hmm. Yeah The crisis of the deputy head office has been resolved. It seems that This woman is not as simple as she looks. What are you looking at me for I What? Nannan fell off the balcony. What happened to Nannan? I thought we said we'd take good care of him. Let's go back first. Doctor. How is he? Is the injury serious? Although the young master is seriously injured, But fortunately, the treatment was timely. Is now out of danger. Should be able to wake up soon. Good. Good. Somebody. How did Nannan fall from upstairs? How do you take care of the young master? It's the young master who works in the room by himself. Fell on his own. Impossible I taught Nannan not to go to the balcony alone. Nannan is usually the best. There's no way he wouldn't listen to me. Go pull up the surveillance and see what's going on. Master Huihui doesn't know what happened today. The surveillance cameras are all broken. Nothing was photographed. What didn't you get? Father, mother and father Nannan How are you If you have anything uncomfortable, you can tell Mommy. There is a strange bad uncle at home. Pushed me down. A strange bad uncle. Fu Hanchuan, didn't you say Is your security system at the top of the country? Why can a stranger come in? Go and get someone to fix the surveillance right away. Let's see what's going on. What? Brother Han Chuan has sent someone to repair the surveillance. Big sister, don't worry. I sabotaged Fu's surveillance myself. I can't even fix it when the living immortals come. That's good. Shen Qianqian This is what happens when you mess with me. Brother, look. Just now Nannan sent me a message asking for help. Said that someone actually attacked him at Daddy's house today. What's going on? How's Nannan doing now? He's fine now. But Nannan said the bad guys Sabotaged Daddy's security system. Let's think of something. Fix Daddy's surveillance. I'm sure it's not a problem. I can fix the worst security system. But Xiu monitoring is going to Daddy's house. How do we get there? Mommy's still at Daddy's. Mommy won't let us get caught by Dady. I have a way Vice president I've contacted people from several security companies. It is said that the data is too badly damaged. There is no way to fix it What a piece of crap. I can't handle such a trifle. Hurry up and think of another way. Hi, dad. Hello, uncle. We are friends of Nannan. We are good friends who come to see Nannan. Why didn't you hear Nannan mention it? The child on the right Why does it look like Nannan? Who sent you here? Do you know each other? Ah, of course I know Nannan's friend. I asked you to come. These two children are not followed by an adult. I'll take them home first. Nannan sent us here. Aunt Tianqi. Nannan is hurt. Just let us see him. I'm begging you. Well, since this is Nannan's friend, Let them in. Yeah From the east to the north. You four are quadruplets. Especially you. Looks most like Nannan. Even though you made a disguise. But mommy is still worried about you. After watching Nannan, hurry back. Don't let Fu Anchuan recognize you, huh? Yeah. Okay. Mommy, we're a little quiet. I want to talk to Nannan. When we're done, we'll go back. You go ahead. How's it going, Dongdong? Can you fix this surveillance? In this world, A system that even Shen Dongdong can't fix. Then no one can fix it. Vice President, we received an anonymous file. This is the surveillance picture of the young master's injury. This is Zhao Shuiru's assistant. Is Zhao Shuiru. I'll get even with him now. You don't have to go. It's my responsibility not to take care of Lan Lan. I'll give you an explanation later. This is the first time Brother Han Chuan has invited me to Fu's house. Did he change his mind? Brother Han Chuan Shen Qianqian, what are you doing here? Did Zhao Shuirong fall downstairs from the balcony? You did it, didn't you? I'm not at Fu's. How could I possibly know how Nannan got hurt? Shen Qianqian I know you are jealous of my fiancee of brother Hanchuan. That's why it's always aimed at me. But brother Han Chuan protected me. I forgive you. Really? come on. Let me show you something. Didn't I have all the surveillance equipment destroyed? Why is it all right now? Now dad's got the mastermind. Let's see who dares to bully us in the future. Nannan This man is yours, right? Brother Han Chuan, don't listen to quiet nonsense. How could I hurt a kind and innocent child? It must be Shen Jingjing. Jealous that I'm your fiancee. But his son conspired to frame me. The fact of framing is right in front of us. What are you arguing about? This man has nothing against us. You didn't order it all. Why would he hurt Nannan? Stinky soft water I really didn't expect you to be this kind of person. Brother Han Chun, I really didn't ask him to deal with Nannan. Why did Nannan get hurt? I really don't know. Daddy, when that bad guy pushed me down, It's all because I ruined the Zhao family. As long as I'm not here. Daddy will marry someone else. Is it true Shut up. What are you talking about here, you little brat? Did Shen Qianqian teach you? Talking about Zhao Shuirong Why are you so vicious? Not even let go of a child. Shen Qianqian you In order to discredit me, To teach your child to lie. This video must be a fake. Brother Han Chuan is a woman with ulterior motives year after year. He must have set me up in this video. You have to believe my innocence. Are you still innocent? The man who sneaked into Fu's house I got it. He told me you ordered it. You want to see it? What, didn't you just yell? Are you still saying that Nannan and I set you up? Brother Han Chuan, I can explain enough about this. I think you are my fiancee in name. Let it go. I'll cut you some slack. But I'm telling you, Our marriage has come to an early end From now on, you are not allowed to enter the half-generation of Fu family. I'm warning you. If you dare to hurt Nannan again, You're going to jail for the rest of your life. Yeah Nannan, you just ran out. Do you have a body? I'm not feeling well. Mommy, I'm fine. I can't let that bad woman bully mommy. My baby is so good. Mommy, don't worry. We'll be watching Nannan. They are all mommy's babies. Shen Qianqian's child's injury is my reason. I didn't protect her. Nannan's injuries were all caused by Zhao Shuirou. And we have a personal feud. It's not all your fault. You don't have to blame yourself. Shen Qianqian I give you my word From now on No one can hurt our children. Why are these two children still here? I was just about to see them off. Wait a minute, this kid doesn't wear glasses. Why do you look like Nannan? Why do you look like Nannan? Children look the same when they are young. Don't worry. I'll just make sure. Katie and Mommy finally kissed. It seems that the day of family reunion is not far away. Mom, Brother Han Chuan wants to break off his engagement with me. What's going on? It's all Shen Jinshan's little bastard. He's such a tough guy. He didn't even die when he fell on the third floor. Brother Han Chuan has already arrested my men. What do we do? It's Shen Qianqian, a little bitch again. Bad me again and again. It's good. It's okay. Mom has a way to get Fu Hanchuan back to you. Is this the feeling of heartbeat? You look very smart. It's worth it today. Who are you? What are you going to do? Don't be afraid, little beauty. It doesn't matter who we are. The important thing is that we are asked to take good care of you for a while. Don't blame your brothers for their hard work. Don't come here. I called the police. Little beauty If you're to blame, you offended someone you shouldn't have offended. Ah, come here. Ah! Ah, help! Shen Qijin Ah! Ah! Romance is indulgence. Yeah, you're in a coma. I can't see the best painting. Halt Is everything all right? It's a good thing you got here in time. Now you're such a bitch. I didn't think you had help. Who sent you here? You don't care who sent me We're here. Our task today is to defeat this bitch. If you mind your own business, It's just you. This group of outlaws You don't want to die. Go. Don't worry. I won't leave you. What a pair of fugitive lovebirds Since you're going to be together, Then die together. That's right. Fuck it. Finish this job. We have no worries about eating and drinking. From now on, women will play casually. Come on, guys, let's go. Saved you again. What are you going to do? Shit, this fool. It's mine. you Yeah Consciously, including looking at two people who don't have time for this. Result Qianqian Ah, move. Wanchuan, how are you? Don't worry I'm fine. I'll take you to the hospital. Wanchuan Wanchuan I forbid you to die. I'll take you to the hospital. Wanchuan, I have a big secret to tell you. We four children can't live without a father. Wanchuan What? you losers. Shen Qianqian was hurt Instead, he hurt Brother Han Chuan. Where is brother Han Chuan now? I'm going to see him. Han Chuan Han Chuan The family members waited outside the door. Wenguang, please do something for you. Help me bring four babies to the central hospital. I have something to announce. Mommy! mommy! Babies. Today, Mommy is going to tell you who your dad is. You have to be obedient. Yeah Where is Fu Haichuan's family? I am an expert in rehabilitation. The operation was very successful Now you can go in and see the patient. Aunt Huang, why are you cursing me? Mommy, fart, kids talk a lot. We don't know as much as he does. Our top priority is to see Dad. Hit Mommy. Why don't you apologize to mommy? I suspect something happened to Mom and Dad. It's this bad aunt again. Mommy, I want to go to the bathroom. Mommy, I'll accompany Beibei to the bathroom. Why don't you take your brother and sister to see Daddy first? All right, you guys go. Be safe. Mm-hmm. Are you ready? I've been waiting for you for a long time Soon. I already found something. I'll send it to Dad's assistant uncle right now. Brother Han Chun, how are you feeling when you wake up? Are you all right I'm relieved to see that you're okay. If Shen Qingqing hadn't been in trouble everywhere, Brother Hanchuan, you won't get hurt at all. Why are you still here? Zhao Shuirong, what is this place? Let you yell here. Bad aunt, why are you so mean to my mommy? It is. What do you kids know? My fiance is hurt. As brother Han Chun's fiancee, Can't you come and see him? Zhao Shuiru, how many times have I told you? Our engagement has long been called off. Please leave as soon as possible. Qianqian, I assure you. We will find out who did it. Shen Qianqian must be causing trouble everywhere. That's why someone would want to hurt her. There's something I've been meaning to tell you. About four babies. What happened to four babies? These kids don't all belong to Han Chuan, are they? Yeah, about four babies. Vice president Just received an anonymous email. I want you to take a look at it. You sent the e-mail. Hey Isn't that the thugs who kidnapped us the other day? Zhao sailor, you again. Brother Han Chuan, I just want to teach Shen Qianqian a lesson. I didn't know you were gonna get hurt. All right, you need to stop talking. I've given you a chance before. Not only have you not changed, On the contrary, it gets worse. Fu and Zhao will never cooperate in the future Brother Han Chun, I didn't mean to. I was just obsessed at the moment. Please don't stop working with Zhao. The loss to Zhao will be incalculable. Take me away. I don't want to see him again. It's the vice president. Go. Brother Han Chun No, brother Han Chun. Hey, don't move. You're in charge of lying down. I told you you saved my life. I'll take care of you until you recover. The doctor said everything. I can lose my medicine. It's okay. You're in charge of lying down. Have a good rest Leave the rest to me. Thank you for your hard work Four babies. Was there something you wanted to tell me just now? I'll tell you officially at night. You have a good rest. I'll get you out of the hospital. Have a good rest You have a good rest. I told him the news about the baby in the evening I don't know if he'll be scared. Mommy Mommy, I want to see Daddy. Shh. Don't make any noise. My brother is sleeping. Take care of your younger brother and sister. I'm going to cook. Yeah Mommy, good ink. Why didn't you tell us? It's Daddy and Mommy's baby. Would you like to discuss it Let's let Daddy and Mommy have a better relationship first. I do have an idea. What? come on, let's hear it. Wow You've done a great job today. Right, Daddy? Try mommy's craftsmanship. Yeah, mommy's cooking is delicious every time. Mommy has been taking care of us all these years. It's hard work. Yeah, that's right. You, as our dad, Ah, children's words can't be taken seriously. Come on, eat. The food is getting cold. Shen Qianqian It turns out that it hasn't been easy for you all these years. Why is it so delicious? Huh Mommy, I need some juice. Mommy, we need juice, too. We need juice, too. Okay, I'll pour it for you. Mm-hmm. I'm gonna help Mommy. I'm going to help mommy, too. What I'm going to say later. I'd better pour a glass of wine to strengthen my courage. Mom Let me take these two for you. Okay. Mommy, let me get these two for you. Yeah, yeah, let's go. This is mine This is Daddy's. Mommy, thanks, baby. Thanks, babe. You're welcome. Just drink the same as the kids. good Come on, let's have a toast. Cheers Rich in Chuan family wine Is the wine that big? The plan worked. Mommy, we're so sleepy. Want to go to bed Ah! You can't drink it. Why do you drink so much? Who says I can't drink? What's your name, handsome? Ha ha ha Mommy, the drunkard is all yours. Let's go to bed. We would never To disturb you. Shen Qianqian, what happened to you? Gently, I'm hot. I'm so hot. You're hot. Why are you pulling my clothes? Why is Shen Qianqian's body unusually hot? It's too hot for you to wear. I'll get you a glass of water to calm down. No Please accompany me. Shen Qianqian Do you know what you're doing? Shen Qianqian Do you know what you're doing? I know I'm going to tell you a big secret. What secret? You have to say it now. After an one-night stand with a man And then gave birth to four babies. What did you say I said I had four babies with a man. It's all mine. It's all yours. They all belong to Fu Hanchuan. Shen Qianqian, you are on fire. Fu Hengchuan Fu Hengchuan You can't take advantage of people's danger. He was drunk. You can't take advantage of people's danger. Why does my head hurt so much? Where's my coat? Why am I sleeping here? where is this? Go What did you eat? Sandwiches with yogurt There are so many adults. I don't know how to wear shoes when I get out of bed. Don't laugh at Mom. Finish your meal. You all go to kindergarten. Okay, Daddy, Mommy, take your time. I took my brother and sister to pack their schoolbags. Okay, go up the stairs. Slow down. Yeah. Okay. Go and pack your schoolbags. Why are you looking at me? Hurry up and eat. Ah! That was last night. You flirted with me last night. I flirted with you What about my clothes? Ah, Auntie, take it off for you. You threw up last night. You can't sleep in it. Well, what happened to us last night? Like... Like which one? Just ah-ha. Did. Ah! What did you do? Make yogurt and drink it. Hello, Fu Haichuan. How dare you tease me? Uh-huh. Shen Qianqian marry me What did you say I want you to marry me. And four babies. Dad and Mommy That's great. That's great. I heard it all You have to promise him Wait a minute, baby. Why did you suddenly offer to marry me? I need a good reason. Didn't you say that yesterday? These four children are all our children. Did I tell Fu Haichuan last night? You married me because of the baby. Or what? You don't think I'm really in love with you, do you? The book says Mobilize the girl's mood before expressing your love. Will increase the success rate. Fu Hanchuan What makes you think I'll marry you willingly? Do you deserve to be the father of my child? Not Shen Qianqian. You make it clear to me. I'm willing to marry you for the baby. How come I don't deserve to be the father of my child? I've been taking care of the baby all these years. What have you done? Get out! Shen Qianqian, don't be unreasonable. I'm unreasonable. Since Daddy made Mommy sad, It's bad for mommy. I'm going home with Mommy. I'm going home with Mommy in the future. Okay. Let's go Shen Qianqian, make yourself clear. Fu Hanchuan I won't marry you just because I have a child with you. Besides You didn't even solve Zhao Shuirou's problem. He could hurt my child again at any time. Mommy, why don't you agree to marry Daddy? Because Mommy thinks Daddy doesn't love me. Marry me just because of you good boys. Mommy is just an accessory to him. Of course, Mommy won't interfere with your choice. Did you choose to live with Daddy? Or live with Mommy? We choose Mommy. Daddy doesn't love mommy. Then it's enough that we love Mommy. Hey Mommy, I love you the most. I am also the baby who loves mommy the most. Me too Then Mommy promised you good boys. Will give you a better life. Yeah, mommy's going to the office now. You guys listen to your brothers at home. When Mommy comes back, mm-hmm. I think Daddy still has a mommy in his heart. It's just that mommy misunderstood. we We can't let Daddy and Mommy split up like this with a misunderstanding. Open it. That's right. I found that Daddy and Mommy care about each other a long time ago. I just didn't say it. Is there any way to get them together? To solve the misunderstanding? Hey I have an idea. What way? Method That's a good idea. How do we do that? We all listen to you. Recently, violin prodigy star Will be in Haicheng Hold a violin concert that attracts worldwide attention It is reported that star is only 8 years old. Has become the number one violin player in the world. At that time, countless Haicheng celebrities will compete to go there. Star Violin performance Conference Zhang Wu, you say How to make a girl feel spoiled You don't understand like that, do you? Vice president Do you want Miss Shen to say yes to your proposal? Actually, women. All I care about is a sense of security. If you can on an important occasion Announce your relationship with Miss Shen Maybe it's a good idea. Go on. I heard that Miss Shen has accepted the invitation of star. Attend her violin concert At all costs Get an invitation to the star concert It's the vice president. I'm on my way. Mom, Brother Han Chuan is going to a star violin concert. This is your chance. You've been sent since you were a kid. An internationally renowned violin school Further study As long as you can come to the fore at the concert this time. Get a full house of lottery I believe Fu Hanchuan is sure to trip under your skirt. That's natural. If it wasn't for that bitch and that little wild owner, Brother Han Chuan wouldn't do this to me now. No rush Make sure that bitch can't eat and walk around. Huh CeCe. Why did you bring Mommy to the concert? Mommy, Cece has a big surprise for you today. Then you just wait. Good mommy is waiting for Cece. Heh heh. Melodious and tactful Be full of emotion It is indeed Miss Zhao. I heard that Miss Zhao Da learned from a foreign master Bach. Listen to it today. It really lives up to its reputation There are only such good people. To be worthy of the status of vice president. Well, Dad won't be like you said. Besides, he doesn't have any skills. Ha ha ha See? Only our family is soft. Is the most suitable person for Fu Hanchuan. Let's take a look somewhere else. Yeah. What? You said that our family is not as good as you. Everyone is listening. What are you talking about? You're talking nonsense. Mommy never said anything like that. It is this bad woman who is framing Mommy. Shen Qianqian, you not only like to talk big. And like to teach children to lie. Why don't we call it a day? You apologize to our family Shuirou. This thing, ah, just passed. A light apology is not enough. Shen Qianqian, I want you to get down on your knees and kowtow to me. Mommy's not apologizing to you. You just can't play well. CeCe, let's not talk. Mommy, I'm not talking nonsense. The level of this bad woman is not high. There are several tones that are wrong. Miss Zhao is back from studying abroad. And had a concert. What are you, a kid, contradicting here? What a wild word. Children talk nonsense apple sauce Don't worry about it. Mommy, I'm telling the truth. Kids, since you talk so crazy, Why don't you go up and play a song? If you win, I'll promise you anything. But if you lose, Just get down on your knees with your mother and admit your mistake. Okay, if I win, You stay away from my daddy. No more annoyance Mommy, ha. You kid can really talk nonsense. Shen Qianqian, this is not your skill, is it? He is not as skillful as others. Just push a kid out to fight. From now on, don't say that I can't win. Mommy, don't worry. He can't beat me. I think you're just afraid of losing I am a good child. You. I'm gonna let you and the bitch lose today. Sissy, are you sure you're okay? Mommy, don't worry. Just waiting for me to beat him. Keep Aunt Huan away from Daddy. I'll never bother you again. Wow, that's great. Wow. Wow. I wonder how well I play the violin. That's great. That's great. The waves behind the Yangtze River really push the waves forward. I didn't expect the children to play so well. It's not a bit better than Miss Zhao. Bad aunt, you should be convinced this time, right? Let this bitch's daughter be in the limelight. Sissy, when did you learn to play the violin? Why doesn't Mommy know? Mommy Cissy didn't mean to keep it from you. I just don't have time to talk to Mommy. Mommy, can you forgive Sissy? Baby, why would Mommy blame you? Baby, mommy's proud of you. That's impossible. Few people can play this violin piece alone. It must be the violin. They tampered with it in advance. apple sauce Did he tamper with it? So many people are looking at you. Can't you see it clearly? Anyway, I'm not gonna believe it. An 8-year-old kid. To be able to play such a piece of world-class difficulty. You're just cheating. Listen to the sound and playing skills. I feel that this little friend Looks like the legendary violin master star. That's impossible. He is definitely not God Qianqian. You just want to touch the porcelain violin prodigy star. Right? tampered with the violin in advance. And let your daughter do the imitation. To bluff us all. I don't have to imitate. I am star, a child prodigy. Pretend to Today is the violin concert held by star Star is the world's top master of violin music. It's not for you to pretend to be a little bitch. That's right. I'll cover for Master star today. Get rid of you as an impostor. Somebody, I'll see which one of you dares to make it. Dad, you're finally here. This bad woman bullied me and Mommy again. Brother Han Chun, I'm your fiancee. Why do you have to side with him in everything? Zhao Shuisheng, you are still being unreasonable. Go on like this It's you who's embarrassed. I'm embarrassed. You let them judge. If it wasn't for this woman, You wouldn't have renounced my marriage. He is a shameless mistress. Is everything really like what Miss Zhao said? Isn't the boss treacherous? Cut That's not this woman's fault. Rob other people's husbands Fu Hanchuan and I As a matter of fact, my relationship with Zhao Shuiru has long been resolved. And there is no more connection. Shen Qianqian is the mother of my Fu Hanchuan child. It's also the woman I want to work with. My sister is so handsome. Brother Hanchuan, you are not benevolent first. Don't blame me for being unkind. Shen Qianqian, you ruined my happiness. I'm not gonna let you have a good time. You remember that. Somebody drag them both down. No, we can go by ourselves. Let's go Mom, come on. You will suffer retribution every day. Don't worry about their nonsense. You take such good care of your child. Thank you for your hard work Not hard The children also brought me a lot of happiness. It seems that in order to raise these children, Shen Qianqian I've really paid too much over the years. We have a weekend Take my brother and brother to the amusement park Okay, Dad. I haven't been with you guys yet. Okay They are already so happy. I don't know if it's an honor. Can you invite this young lady to dance? Mommy, please promise him. Say yes. Daddy, I miss you so much. Don't come up and hug. Daddy! Daddy! Long time no see These four babies and their parents It was carved out of the same mold. Yeah, what a happy family of six. It's really enviable, Dad. I want to take a stroll over there. I see a lot of beautiful aunts in there. Do some shopping inside. Of course. What does Sisi want? I'll buy them all. Ha ha ha ha How did you think about the marriage I mentioned last time? I haven't decided yet. I think we still want Daddy's cat. Look at this. Daddy, Mommy, look at this. Haha, Daddy and Mommy, I want to see you wear it. Mom and Dad are adults. Will you wear this? Daddy, Mommy, just promise your sister. Say yes. good I promise you. You'll agree to whatever you say. Yeah, ha. Come on, go play over there. Let's go. You guys are so sweet and happy. It won't make you feel any better. The young lady has gone too far. And it's easy to get people killed. Is to let him get what he deserves. Why not go quickly? Ha Ha Look at my parents. Why do you always play with us? Why are you unhappy when Mom and Dad play with you? You live your life together. We live our world of four. But you four babies are together. Mom's worried. What's there to worry about? You take care of yourselves. Don't worry about us anymore. Yeah Then let's go for a walk. What's up There seems to be a problem there. There are too many children here. Don't panic. You come up first. Ah! What's up I think I'm stuck in something. I'll go down and have a look. Time is running out You go get the kids first. I'm not leaving you. You let me go down and have a look. The kids are my life. If they don't live, I'm not gonna live either. But go ahead. I'll figure it out. Let's go. Go Zhao State Ah! Mommy Thousands of mommy Mommy! mommy! How are you I'm fine Luckily, it's a direct target of explosives. There's no harm. And said it was nothing. Bring the car over here right away. There's a doctor at the hospital standing by. Young lady I did what you asked. Can you leave my family alone now? Play with me, don't you? Find a firecracker to fool me. You can't get people killed, right? So your wife and kids don't want to die. Miss, I'm looking for someone. Block all entrances and exits that allow access to vehicles. Shen Qingtian will not be allowed to be rescued so easily This is your last chance. I understand, young lady. Brother Nannan How's mommy? Why did you ask Brother Nannan? Because Nannan's brother, his vice president, Vice president The outside was jammed with unknown vehicles. The ambulance can't even get in. I'll just have to bring in a medicine kit first. How is that possible? This place is so remote. How can it be jammed for no reason? I don't know either Suddenly there are a lot of inexplicable vehicles. Don't worry I'll get to the bottom of this. Make them pay. The injury of mom and dad It's on me. It's on you. But you're just a kid. Dad, don't worry. Dad, don't worry about Nannan's medical skills. In fact, the treatment plan of his aunt and uncle before. It's all made by Nannan. Yeah, Dad, just trust Brother Nannan. He can do it. Shen Qianqian, how many things are you not telling me? When you wake up, You must be honest with me. Go and think of another way Daddy takes care of Mommy every day. Mommy's body is much better. But why aren't Daddy and Mommy together yet? Maybe Mommy doesn't know. I care about Daddy a lot. Then why push Daddy away at a critical moment? Let yourself get hurt? It sure is I feel as if there is a lack of opportunity between them. We have to let them say what they really think. Uncle Wang Guang and his aunt are here. Yeah My aunt and I have something very important to announce, Bay. Bay, tell Mommy to come out. Mommy What's going on? uncle and aunt Wang Guang are here. Wen Guang Liyun, what are you doing here? Without saying anything in advance. Liyun and I are going to have a wedding. Ask some babies to be flower girls at that time. What? you're getting married? I wasn't aware of that After the moment of life and death I finally know who I care about most. So I decided to marry Brother Wen Guang. After the moment of life and death I finally know who I care about most. So I decided to long for Brother Guang to get married. Marriage is a great thing. It's time for a happy event in our family. There is a happy event in my own family. I'm counting on the two of them. It seems that dad is still not good enough. Sister, we have suffered a lot. While my sister has her own happiness, I hope you can be happy, too. I'm in no hurry. By the way, what can I do for you at the wedding? Just say it. Well, there really seems to be one thing. Although Liyun is in good health now, But it still takes a lot of energy to try on the wedding dress. I think you two are about the same size. Why don't you help me run errands? Hey, what am I doing? no problem. Okay, the details. We three adults will discuss it again. Then let's go inside. Ah! I know how Daddy and Mommy got the right fruit. What way? Just say it. That's right. Mommy is not going to try on her sister-in-law's wedding dress. We told Daddy. Mommy is going to marry Uncle Wenguang Let Daddy see Mommy in her wedding dress again. That's a good idea. Let me try Yeah, let Daddy get nervous to death. Mommy. Yeah. Okay. Liyun, do you like this? Is it too short? I still have scars that just got out of surgery. How do you look the best in my eyes? Ouch, you two. Can you hold back in front of the children? Uncle Hongguang is not ashamed. Ha Hurry up and check it out. Where is Shen Qianqian now? Wow The cat is so beautiful. It's like a fairy coming down to earth. Lin Wenguang, what did you tell me then? You said you only loved Shen Lingyun. What does it mean to bring Shen Qianqian to try on the wedding dress now? Fu Wanchuan has nothing to do with Wenguang. Don't go crazy. It's not what you think it is. So what do you mean now? The vice president is here. Come to the place where my wife tried on her wedding dress Are you here to make trouble? Shen Qianqian, don't marry anyone else. Shall I marry you? I truly love you Fu Hanchuan, what do you mean? I thought I didn't have you in my heart. But I know that now. I have no idea Since when did I fall in love with you? Maybe the last time you saved me, Or maybe it was the last time I saved you. Shen Qianqian Will you marry me Fu Hanchuan, you suddenly showed up to take away my child. Suddenly appeared to disturb my life. And now you suddenly show up and ask me to marry you. I haven't decided yet. I don't think you made up your mind either. Then I'm going to give you the most romantic wedding right now. Okay, I'll be waiting for you. Notify everyone. I'm going to propose to Shen Qianqian. Don't bother. Daddy, I can help you tell the world. What do you mean by that? Daddy and Mommy Come with me. I'll show you. Okay It turns out that things are hidden even though babies are hidden. Things are actually hacker geniuses. that You three babies are all geniuses of Linyi. Yeah Why should I propose? I've been trying for so many years. Is about to marry into a rich family Shen Qianqian, a bitch, returned home suddenly. Broke the fruits of my efforts for so many years. Shen Qianqian, I want you to pay with blood. Find me a tough guy. I just want him dead. Is there anything else? If it's all right. I'm going to pick up the immortal. Yeah, is there anything else? Now, just say it. Vice President, one last thing. The dragon has always seen the first but not the end. The boss behind Suzuki Group Ever since we received our invitation Got back to us. It was said that when you proposed to Miss Shen I will be there in person to give you my best wishes. He is the boss behind Suzuki Group. Such a mysterious man. Usually only have a cooperative relationship with us. Just the last time I typed in person. Or for Qianqian to stay in the second interview. This boss has never appeared in public. This time he claimed that he would appear in public. If He can really come to your wedding with Miss Shen. That's really not to mention how big it is. Who is this guy? Why are you so familiar with Shen Qianqian? All right, we're done with the show. You should go to bed. All right, all right. Qianqian, you and the boss behind Suzuki Group What's the relationship? I really don't know You really don't know? Then why would he help you? Why would you be permanent in the coming back? I really don't know I really don't know Don't go crazy. The kids will come to the bathroom later. He'll come through here. I'm just going crazy. I don't need any man to give it to you. We haven't really dated yet. Yeah, let's go to the park. There's a good one ahead. Cooperate with us. Otherwise, my knife won't have long eyes. Who are you? What do you want? Fan Cheng, run and leave me alone. Heh. Don't move. Step back. If you don't listen, move again. I wiped his neck. Can you believe it? You want money, right? I do. I don't want money. Now you turn your head around. Put your hands up obediently Step back slowly and do a little trick. I want you to look good. Hi. Hello. Don't hurt him. go away I have the man now. Isn't it time to do it next? Wait for Miss. Command I thought it was agreed. You shouldn't have asked. Don't ask. Understand. Remember. The identity of the young lady cannot be exposed. Be careful. I won't inform you again. After this job, take the money. Responsibility as soon as possible Understood I will never let anyone find out about the young lady. This has become a great achievement. good Al can wake up. Help! is there anyone? Qianqian, I'm here I'm here. I'm fine. I'm just... I'm just afraid I'm not gonna die here. What are you talking about? We'll go out together. It's all this time. You two are still affectionate here. Dude, listen to me. You kidnapped us just for money. I have whatever you want. I'll give it to you. Huh Don't make any small moves. Otherwise, don't blame me for being cruel. Huh Qian Qian, don't be afraid. I'm fine. I'm just afraid we're gonna die here. What are you talking about? We'll go out together. Yeah, we'll go out together. If there is any accident, I will protect you. I won't let you get hurt. You mustn't say such silly things. You just gave me hope. I forbid you to say such stupid things about sacrificing you to save me. good We'll go out together. My family of six lead a happy life. You're both dying. You're still here. You love me. I know you kidnapped us because you wanted money. I do. How much do you want? I can satisfy you. That's a lot of breath. Satisfy me. That's a lot of tone. Satisfy me. What's next? Instruct you to pretend to want some money in your pocket The main thing is that what the top wants is that woman's life. What? just that woman. Isn't that guy worth more? Do what you are told. Just don't let him leave alive today. Understand. Yeah Is 1 billion 1 billion enough? I found traces of Mom and Dad. In an abandoned warehouse in the suburbs. Daddy and Mommy are very nice. Why is it in an abandoned warehouse? Oops. Hey, Sue, you just have to let me go. Take me. good You can transfer money. What about him? you let him go, too. He has to die. I'll give you two choices. Or he dies and you get out. Or you two die together. You don't let him go. You won't get a penny. Then I'm sorry. Yeah It's not good. Mommy and Daddy are in danger. South, south, north, north, west, west We save people together. Save Daddy and Mommy. Okay, let's go save Daddy and Mommy. Stop! Stay back. Come again, I'll hack him to death. You're surrounded. Let's get caught. At the worst, we all die together. You help me first. Help me. I can give you money. The boss behind you has been arrested. Let's give up resistance. Now let him go. You still have a chance. Think of your poor daughter. We've already investigated. The reason for your desperation Because you have a daughter who needs treatment. As long as you let Mom and Dad go. We'll fix her for you. Yes, I will try my best to cure him. A video of you hurting Nannan. We've already found it. Give it up. It's impossible. Did you hear that? Give it up. You release it now. We still have time. You listen to me. You don't want to die together, do you? Are you all right This is your mommy. Mommy didn't have any trauma. Just a little scared. Han Chuan, what about you? are you all right? I'm fine Wait a minute. Mommy seems to have a baby in her belly. What? what? The vice president has seen so many big scenes. Why are you so nervous about proposing marriage? Yeah, you're not nervous. Don't be a blind foreman. The vice president's wife is here. Quickly Hey, goo, goo. Daddy is a ghost uncle. Why are you kids? Daddy, will you look forward to Mommy's appearance? Yeah, Daddy looks disappointed. Uncle Wang Guang, too. You little brat. It's a pleasure to make fun of my little uncle. By the way, Dad. I heard from my uncle Your wedding scene. Isn't there going to be a business mogul? Yes, Vice President. I'll pick it up at the door. No I wish you a happy wedding. Okay, you little imp. So you did this. It hurt my mommy tortoise for so long. Dad, now we all know our skills. I understand The vice president is really not joking this time. Come on. Thank you, wife.