Greetings and welcome to an LGR restoration, repair kind of thing. This is not a very pretty computer. It never has been, that's never been the point This is just my go-to Windows 98 capture PC, I've had ever since I started LGR. Before that even, in fact I still have my 2009 for $10 at a local Goodwill store. That was back when they still sold cases like they actually had a lot of components in there, The only things I didn't have were hard drive And I used to, when I didn't have a job back repaired them as cheaply as I could and then that's what I did to make money in-between And then I started LGR some months after that was like, "yeah you know what? This will make a nice little machine." And the time has come for this to get quite Not only is it looking kind of ugly--I mean I've never really cleaned it or done or anything I know I normally show like pristine-type But you know for the ones that I just use never gonna show and don't care too much about throw things in here and swap components all This is what happens, it just get dusty and that I don't even know why they're here anymore. But that is what it is. And speaking of parts, all of these have been except for I think the motherboard, the CPU... I think everything else has been replaced CPU is probably fine but the motherboard is The IDE controller stopped working on it years And I put this other kind of IDE controller But that's always giving me issues. And then the power supply has gone bad a couple I stuck in there because I had an extra. And it was fine for a long time, but now it's off every so often. So I'm gonna replace a whole bunch of things maybe a new finish. I don't know, I might paint it or something. When I bought this I thought that I would Maybe I'll go ahead and make that happen, Ahh, still though as much as this needs an reliably, it's going to be kind of sad to I mean look at this desktop here, look at captured and turned into LGR episodes. Yeah all of these icons have been LGR episodes over the years. Some before this current installation of Windows I mean there's just been a ton of work done And that is why I'm going to dedicate the Yeah, I'm not trying to make my "ultimate I want to point out. Like, I'm not gonna put the best of the best It's really just using most of the components good chunk of them. But upgrading the ones that need it so that That's the biggest thing, sometimes this doesn't And when it does it's very slow, I think the It's also very noisy. Listen to this noise, you've probably heard [loud fans and drive whirring away] I want to go for quietness. So yeah let's go ahead and start taking it to keep, and what will be swapped out for So I don't know what I'm going to do with I'll probably just leave it in here. You know, I've never been super fond of this like the internal layout. I think it's kind of ugly. But yeah, I guess I'm gonna keep it. I don't know I like--I have another case that I just don't want to. Like I'm sort of attached to this nasty thing Anyway yeah, let's get these internal components [clunk, snap, clink] You know, I think this this thing has been fully disassembled. I just sort of tossed it together as I needed Yeah, I didn't even put screws on the other Yeah, this is a 40 gigabyte drive that I picked up at Goodwill for six bucks or something back then. In fact, that's probably on the receipt as Yeah this really is sort of an odd Frankenstein Yeah I'm normally pretty particular about I don't even remember when I put this in there. What is this, Mitsumi D359T6? It's just a three and a half inch floppy drive, bin that worked and that was fine. Long as it worked it's all good by me. Now I have put a couple of different five This one probably went in five years ago. This is a Toshiba ND-0801GR. I'll probably replace this at some point because, It still works, it's just that it doesn't What even kind of screws are in there? Why on earth would I have used Torx head screws I don't even know. Again, I guess it's just one of those things, Yeah, I do remember putting this in there This is another one of those cases where I Something had happened and there were three of like a year and like, "man I'm tired It's an HP DVD840 DVD burner with LightScribe I don't remember what this was from. Heh, ah these clips. These held on a fan of some kind like a CPU And then I just slapped this one on here that's--it's It's just a couple of screws that--I think It's just sort of jammed in place and like, We're gonna fix that. It's probably probably one reason it was Yeah, you know I'm gonna go ahead and take Yeah, getting a real insight of why this used It was just lazily slapped together. Well honestly it wasn't just laziness it was So this is the most budget of budget builds This whole thing probably has cost me like Because yeah, most of the parts just came So they were either really cheap or free. I don't remember exactly what Compaq this So here's one reason that I hate this case. Not only is it just full of really obnoxiously like these little rivets, that stick out and you have to sort of move the card down and It's really annoying. Anyway, this is the latest edition, I haven't It's just an Adaptec SCSI controller, but Which is the IDE controller, because the onboard Promise Technology Ultra 66. Yeah that I'm sure came out of a Goodwill card next up here, which I actually do use Wow, that is super dusty. Yeah it's just a basic ethernet card for getting and my modern computers. And here is something I'm definitely going This is a Diamond Monster Sound. This is an Aureal Vortex 2 sound card for A really good card and actually does some I mean it's not perfect, especially in the AdLib games from like '98 to 2001 which is really And last but definitely not least, really decided to do with it. Another Goodwill pick up, this is a 3dfx Voodoo It's a 16 megabyte AGP Glide-accelerated card, I actually used to capture PC footage with It did not look good. Okay, got the RAM here. This probably hasn't been taken out since Let's see what are these. SpecTek PC-100 SDRAM sticks, at 256 megs each. I don't know how well you can see that but supposed to be black. Ew. And then the assembly here for the Athlon I'm just gonna leave that on there and take Which I believe this will be the first time machine because I really never had a reason It came with it installed from Goodwill, or I don't know, wherever this was made originally. It's just some generic clone PC. I've had so many people ask me over the years 98 games, like what computer and brand and I'm like "uh, it's the Lazy Game reviews beige box with generic parts that have been Yeah I can tell this hasn't been taken out match [chuckles] Every other thing that's has had like a totally different screw. There we go. Ah! She's free! Wow. My first time seeing the back of this. Check that out. It's... pretty unremarkable. I don't even know what kind of motherboard I don't see any brand on here. Procomp? Yeah, I'm actually not super annoyed by this I mean it had USB and you know PD/2, a couple Which I never used because I use that Aureal Five PCI slots, one AGP over here, and then I wanted that in a computer of this era because, I just do. This has been a good computer despite how It really has been a good computer. Look I even made custom label for it at one It had some really gross stuff on top here made this label and it stuck it on there and Or maybe was maybe it was Cherry Coke. Either way, it was one of those radical late early 2000s typefaces that was "everything was extreme." So anyway, it seemed a suited choice for this, I don't like this case but I'm gonna clean And then we're gonna put some new parts in Really hoping that it's not too big a deal I've never tried. Ah yeah, there's some screws in these corners. I'm assuming that is holding the front of Yep. That's definitely what those screws are doing. Good! [Screwing noises. No, not that kind.] [clunking and sliding of plastics and such] So everything's I'm not entirely sure how I'm gonna get that little metal bits. Does the whole thing just slide out maybe? Oh! Nope. Nope, that was that. Well let's just put that back on there, everything's I think it does slide though. There it is! Ah, yay. All right, well this is ready to be friggin Ah it's all stormy outside so I'll just Aw nasty! [scrubbing, water noises] Yeah why [more watery scrubbing] All right. It's a good start! See this thing is almost even more gross. [washing, brushing] All right. We'll get this thing thoroughly dried off I don't know, do something else to it. Does my computer need a doorbell? Does my computer need a washing machine? [thunk] Does my computer need a this thing? Mmm, LED lighting? Nah, that'd be stupid. Or I could add woodgrain. Eh. Not quite the aesthetic I'm going for but [wood flies everywhere] Aw man. Ah here we go. Looking for Plasti Dip. Seriously, that's it? They got like two colors. I moved on to another hardware store and they don't really have what I'm looking for here either, at least not the color. They do have some other Plasti Dips and similar They do have some of these Krylon things, cases they work well. But ah. Again, not quite I'm looking for and I don't thing just to see how it works, so onto next Struck out a bit with the hardware stores for what I was looking for, and this is pretty It's actually kind of close-ish to the dark to first paint that computer. I did just a quick test of the finish, just I don't know, I think it looks interesting Obviously, it's going to get better as I apply But yeah, it's kind of a metallic green. [shakes spray can] [spraying of Plasti Dip] [spraying speed increases] [it's over nine thousaaaaand] Okay, I think these turned out rather nicely. Really don't even know how well this comes In person, I think it looks pretty cool. I was able to get each panel coming out pretty The front was of course, as I expected, the And I also ended up doing this, like a silver And the power and reset button I attempted don't know, just wanted to see how it would And not only did it not look particularly Dip made it so that the button would get stuck So just use some silver Sharpie to highlight And yeah, I don't know I think the whole dark And I was having fun so maybe I got a little So I ended up getting the disk drives and And I've got the optical drive drying at the And I don't know, I've just never seen drives So why not? And It's about time to get the case assembled [sounds of assembly commence] Yeah! Just to kind of get a general idea there, Sure, I could have used RetroBright and made it yet another beige box, but I have a hundred and something beige boxes. But only one rubbery dark green metallic thing! The different surfaces did pick up the Plasti case ended up a little shinier than like around Got the little LEDs here. They just sort of go back into place. Let's see, which one is this--reset switch. And then the power switch kind of clicks in And that's it! And just string these back into place. [wires being strewn about] Just get those screws back in place. Man, these are in such an awkward position. Augh. Okay! Got the So there's the button and that is gonna go Yep, it moves. And if I were thinking I would have taken to shine through, but I forgot about that, Yeah, we'll just go ahead and scrape that Dip scrapes off of things pretty simply. And everything really just snaps back into [snapping of plastics] Same with the front Just kind of slides on the top here. And that's that. [clicking more pieces into position] Okay, time to get to the internal hardware. And let's begin with the new motherboard. This is a gigabyte GA-6VXC7-4X-P revision Really rolls off the tongue. Now, this is a Socket 370-compatible board So I'm going to be installing a Pentium III, which was a Slot A board. And the actual CPU I decided to go with is And that is a Coppermine 1.0 gigahertz, this And I actually do have the fastest Pentium have a board that is compatible. Well, I do, but it doesn't actually have the for this particular build. But yeah, the other boards that I have that which--you know I'm not going for the fastest range of this era of like year 2000 to 2001 I like the fact that this has five PCI slots, ISA down there. Most of the others that I've seen that support have the ISA slot, which I really want. But yeah, I mean it's similar very much to with any onboard sound. I don't need it, I didn't want it. Got the serial, parallel, two USB 1.1, some And It supports up to one and a half gigabytes These are 512 megs each, PC-133, 133 megahertz And I don't need that much, I don't need--really need for what I'm doing with this system, I've got it so I may as well use it. One and a half gigs of RAM would have blown And since I put this particular one gigahertz to change some of these little switch settings That'll change the bus speed and the clock And according to the manual printout I have There we go. Oh man, where did my sunlight go? Got really dark in here. Ah, good grief. Yeah, there we go. So we'll need a CPU cooler and instead of using had originally when I got it whenever ago, Which this is some sort of Antec cooler right It'll fit and it'll be quiet and cool and Gonna use a little Arctic MX-4 because it's [snap!] Couldn't get it in there with the RAM installed it's really cramped up against that. And the header for the CPU fan plugs in right There we go. Okay! Mm, let's go ahead get the board installed Oh wait. I have a new I/O panel cuz this one, I don't [snapping things into position] All right Yeah! While I'm getting this screwed into the offsets of annoying with these later boards that have Hehe, pounds per square inch! No, PCI slots. So if you might see down here to bottom, these Which means that you can only install either way, well, they're shaped. PCI cards go in facing this way which you And when ISA cards go in their, you know, of faces the opposite direction, so. That means that if you install an ISA card, it, so you're stuck with four PCI. And you know, it's a trade-off because again: make use of all the other more modern stuff? That's just kind of what you get on ATX boards Okay. Next let's go ahead and start plugging in these wiry things. I mean I can barely read the legend for that [softly connecting wires] That should be everything. I suppose that I need a power supply, hehe. I suppose. And so yeah, I ended up replacing it with It's a little bit newer, a little bit more Crucially It has like the negative 5 volt bus and all that kind of good stuff. Somewhat annoyingly you have to hold it in exactly the right spot and just rest there. ...tired of watching me screw yet? That one connection to the motherboard and And I'll say goodbye to cable management cuz thing going on here. Okay let's go ahead and get some of these I'll start with the Voodoo 3 card here. Which doesn't want to fit! Stupid case strikes again. See, it's got these little rivets. I might have mentioned that earlier those where you have to plug in cards? Dumb as hell dude, dumb design! Next is the Aureal Vortex 2 sound card. Plugs into the first PCI slot here. And got the CD audio cable here for the connection Let's see, which am I gonna do next to have I'm gonna do ethernet. And SCSI. Yeah. So I've got some expansion options for Oddware Let's fill up these drive bays. Five and a quarter inch floppy. It's gonna start getting tricky if I don't Got this green IDE cable, which I will use There we go. I only have one of these cables unfortunately, I think it looks kinda neat, sort of [laughs] No right here. Which one is number one? The red one, of course, so I'm gonna plug And we got this annoyingly *floppy* floppy This is why I'm like yeah we're just gonna It's just gonna be a mess no matter what, And lastly in terms of removable media: three-and-a-half And while I could go all Druaga1 and go with Maxtor DiamondMax 10, 120 gigabyte PATA 133 Because I don't know man, it works. I had one of these and you know. Perhaps I'll do something else later on, I just because of how much I swap things out. And I don't really need a spinning hard disk I'm not going for authenticity. And really this thing is way too high capacity Whatever, I had it lying around. And another IDE ribbon cable. Crammed in here somewhere, oh my goodness. There we go. Beautiful. And by that I mean ugh. Yeah no, it's fine. It's not blocking the fan so that means Coming together quite nicely. I'll go ahead and make sure everything works, [shuffles around setting things up] All right Ha! No power plugged in. Well, my moment of truth is that I'm an idiot. Ahh, moment of truth! Mm, got power. I don't see my LEDs turning on so I probably Okay good. Good so far. Sweet. Pentium III one gigahertz, one and a half And we'll hit delete to enter the setup. It still actually has the correct date. Almost the correct time. And we've got the hard disk and the DVD-ROM And it is very quiet which is very much what Power supply fan is quiet, of course that Everything's pretty quiet. Compared to what it had before? Yeah, I'd say that's a solid upgrade. Ah we got our SCSI controller right there, It thinks that is disk A? It is not. Definitely have something mixed up with come back and get Windows 98 SE installed. Okay, so I got the LEDs fixed, floppy drives It was determined by the cable and then the had actually moved the five and quarter-inch Otherwise, I would just swapped A and B in [floppy drive seek noises] That's what I was So yeah, let's go ahead and see if we can [typing a bit] Well, this is seeing it as The BIOS was seeing it correctly but ah, let's get rid of that and see what happens, ha. Now begins the arduous process of doing FDISK can install Windows, so ah yep. We will return once this finishes. Screw it, ain't nobody got time for that. I have one of these SD card interfaces that And I'll be able to use an SD card as a hard So that's what I'm gonna do for the sake of After all this is a project box and I swap it just makes sense. And this mounts in the back on one of those it and pull the card in and out whenever I And there we go, detected straight away. 32 gigs. Not as much as the hundred twenty gigs that that much space anyway, it's just a drive I'm gonna go ahead and run FDISK anyway. This will at least verify it and it'll be I've had some weird issues trying this before It doesn't take long. Thank goodness. Alright MS-DOS partition created, Master Boot Just gotta format it and we'll be good to It likes what it sees! Should be pretty smooth sailing from here Hmm. What do we name this? Hehe. It's very green. Kind of a Jolly Green Giant. Lazy Green Giant, how about that? "Windows just got better." Just now, this very moment! Almost exactly 20 years later [chuckles] Oh Okay, we're getting somewhere. So it actually had a problem getting to this Or rather the amount of RAM I suppose. It was just like "oh man, you don't have So yeah, I took out 512 megs. We're down to one gigabyte of RAM. And then it booted up just fine so at this driver installation process. I'm not gonna make you watch all of that, basic Windows here. And there we go. Don't have video drivers or sound or anything Just a note in post here, I was able to get Just had to augment the system.ini file with pretty much taken care of. I also decided to install the unofficial Service of all sorts of official and unofficial stuff. Just makes Windows 98 SE a whole lot more Anyway back to the build! Eh we'll just get the drivers installed [Windows 98 startup sounds play] Yeah! Windows 98! So all the drivers installed just fine. Got a cheapo speaker plugged in. And this radical startup music. "The exciting new world of Windows 98!" So yeah, it's just Windows 98 SE [laughs to But everything's here installed correctly. We've got all the things that we need. We've got wavetable audio playback. [canyon.mid plays for a bit] We can play some [Duke3D startup sounds] So yeah. Sound Blaster compatibility--don't know what But yeah! [sounds of Duke3D gameplay] I mean, the computer that I was already used to. Except a little bit faster CPU, some more hard disk controller and things like that Yeah, I mean, I have all sorts of things that This is mostly not meant for DOS games because Vortex 2 is not particularly great. I mean the compatibility is fine, it just sound like a real AdLib card, you know, OPL2 or 3. It's just emulated. But it's more for late 90s kind of games, So we can run Quake III and other assorted All right! [Quake III Arena gameplay happens] So this forward on LGR for a lot of different things. If I need something for well, you know late In fact, I have a few things planned already uh anyway, well I guess I'm just gonna be That's about it for the installation part I just got one or two little tiny things to First up I wanna get this SD interface mounted. And just gonna get that in right... ohh, no! Aw no, no no. Crap! This stupid AMR interface, the audio modem It's physically blocking me being able to If only this were mounted like, a little over That is so stupid! I could either desolder the stupid riser, of plate where it's moved down this way, or I don't know man. In the meantime I'm just gonna stick it down Ha! It won't fit there either because now it's It keeps bumping up against this side of it. What a stupid design! It's fine for now. It's working. Heh. I'll deal with that later. Gotta come up with some other mounting solution, but we can at least get this put back on there, looking spiffy. All right. Thumb screws in place and I'm gonna call this And to solidify its highly custom nature, They're quite nice, raised metallic and everything, going on, so. Oh yeah. [chuckles in amusement] Now that is satisfying. And yes, I do sell these. Not like, all the time or anything. But I've had some small print runs made that So keep an eye out if you're interested. I gotta say I'm pretty pleased with how this Definitely gotta get that SD card area figured And the case is definitely a little darker It almost looks black under the right lighting. But still, it at least has a unique aesthetic And really this is just a project box, I'm Who knows? It's Plasti Dip, I might just tear off all color in the future. For the moment though I am going to call this use this computer and it's ready to go for So I hope that you enjoyed this much longer I've been working on this for about a month I've cut out and this is what's resulted. So I hope that you enjoyed. And as always, thank you very much for watching