Housewives, I'm proud of how the pies turned out! Oops, look how soft, soft, like Fluff. Cool, cool! Hello friends, here you go Wow, kitchen! I just want to say: no more yeast dough. I loved cottage cheese dough. There are a lot of recipes on the channel: cookies, cheesecakes, and pies. Today I want to show you how I bake delicious pies in the oven. Some 20-30 minutes and everything is ready. The hero of our recipe is cottage cheese! I transfer 250 g into a bowl. More! Half a teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of sugar. Here's one egg. All the ingredients, friends, are from my refrigerator, there is no need to stand or age anything. There are also two tablespoons of sour cream. Today everything suggested me to bake these pies. I will also need half a teaspoon of baking soda, which I will quench with vinegar. I have apple one. Also about half a teaspoon. I'll mix it here too . I mix everything well with a fork. I rub it just like that. There will be lumps and it will only taste better. Soda reacted. This is how the air mixture turned out. I start adding flour. I have 200 g of sifted flour here. I won't add everything at once . I'll add it like this. And I start kneading the dough. Here too, housewives, you don't need to knead for too long. Now, as soon as we combine everything, it's ready. I wet my hands a little in flour and begin. If it gets too sticky, add more flour. Well, I want to say, all 200 g are gone. As soon as the dough comes together ( it's so tender and soft), I put it in a bag and put it in the refrigerator. Well, I'll start with the filling. Place a frying pan on the fire, a little vegetable oil. Let it warm up. I take an onion and cut it into small cubes. You can immediately put it on the frying pan. A drop of salt, let yourself fry here. And I'll immediately grate a piece of carrot on a coarse grater, that will be enough. Everything is fine, friends. Once the onion has become transparent, you can safely add the carrots. I'll mix it and let it all fry together here. In the meantime, I'll also wipe the cabbage. 400 grams, friends. Everything is perfect. I'll take a knife and chop it in several places to make it easier to put it into the pie. Let's see what's here. Everything is fine here too , you can add cabbage. I stir, fry for 5-7 minutes, stirring constantly, you need to fry it. I'll increase the heat under the pan a little more. I stir. I add half a glass of tomato juice. Can be replaced with tomato paste. Or you can add nothing at all, it's also delicious. Salt to taste, about half a teaspoon of salt. I stir and simmer for about 5 more minutes. I'll immediately add 2 bay leaves and ground pepper. Yes, more pepper. Well, let's simmer some more. I'll stir it from time to time. To make it faster, you can cover with a lid for a few minutes. Let's see. What do we have here? Wow, how beautiful! And how delicious it smells! I stir. I turn off the heat. Well, of course I'll try, friends. Well, what kind of cook is he who doesn't taste what he cooks? Right? - Right! Just perfect, it turned out very tasty, great. Well, pour me a plate. I'll leave it for you, of course, for dinner. Let it cool down. The filling has cooled down, you can turn on the oven, 180deg up and down. We take out the dough and start sculpting. I'll sprinkle the table with a little flour. I take out the dough. Oh, it cooled down so much, it became so dense. I'll roll it out a little and divide it in half for convenience. I'll put this back in the bag. And we will divide this part. What kind of pies do you want? Large, small? - Medium! Handsome, Seryozhka. Well, let's have these, so that they are beautiful, miniature. Yes, like your wife. My wife is beautiful! It was so nice, Seryozhka and I were in the same place and we were met by a woman running like this, a smile on her face, and "I know you, I know you. You, wow, kitchen," the phone shows! Friends, thank you for recognizing me, coming up, taking a photo, and she's like that, hugging me. He says: "Oh, you are so small." It turns out that I am more on screen than in real life. That's it, friends. This is for those who say that I urgently need to go to the gym. Everything is fine with me. Seryozha, you'd better change the camera so that your wife looks smaller in the frame. The camera only expands. Yes, the camera expands a little, friends. Well, that's it, let's get back to the pies. Dip each piece in flour. All the sides that were cut off are a little sticky. However, do not add more flour to make the dough more tender. I take a flatbread, knead it with my hand, the dough is soft, pleasant, overall great. I I'm just crazy about him, friends. Cooled filling. Well, you can put more. Well, more? Please - more. I agree, and I blind the edges. The edges need to be molded well. You can dip your hands in flour if necessary. So here it is. I press a little. This is the pie I got. Place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Everything is simple and fast. The filling has cooled down and I mold the edges. From this amount I got 15 pies. Place in an oven preheated to 180deg, top-bottom, for 15-20 minutes. I make sure that as soon as they are browned, you can take them out. Lucky, have a seat. And we look. What do we have here? And what we have here is delicious and healthy. This is my other half, please. I've already eaten one. It turned out to be 15 pieces. And we have 14 here. I've already eaten. Delicious, very tasty. These pies are good with both cherries and cottage cheese. I even make cookies from this dough, just cookies in a frying pan. I will leave all links to the video in the description. Give it a try. Tasty. I wish everyone peaceful skies and delicious food. Yes, I'll hide it to make it seem bigger. It turned out delicious. Thank you, Sunny, for the delicious treats you prepare for me. Please! It is you who thank our subscribers, the hostesses who suggest, correct, and complement. I thank you from the bottom of my heart. And I thank you for these tasty treats and good ideas. Hugs and kisses. Seryozha, your mouth is full. Come on, have lunch. I already have it, I want it. Let's. Well done. Good. And it smells. Yes, mom, it smells. Sit down, she said, sit down. Give me your paw, well done. You see, we have learned a lot already. Will you bring a bowl? Carry it. Well done. That's it, I brought a bowl. Sit down, calm down. Sit down. Calm down, sit down. Sit. Take it, take it, and already, you drank milk, and ate cottage cheese, and ate your porridge, and ate your food. It's already 5 o'clock, he's already eaten five times, and still. Come on, let's look at the pies. That's it, Lucky, I'm cleaning up your bowl. Wash my hands.