DECOMPRESSED violently, in an instant. The six men history's most gruesome diving accident. What in absolute horror. However, only one would On Saturday, November 5th, 1983, while the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, Truls Hellevik and Bjorn Giaever Bergersen the rig. Assisting them were two brave dive Truls Hellevik and Bjorn Bergersen descended to bottom frame of the drilling infrastructure.The through the use of a diving bell, which could be temporarily lived. Unlike other divers, they chamber, working, eating, and sleeping. expected the divers to work long 18-hour shifts them to work again. The pay was excellent, often environment was claustrophobic and challenging. work very hard at the same time. But they had no routine procedures would soon become a nightmare. the bell chambers consisted of Chamber One, a lifeboat, and a trunk that was connected to the trunk as the two diving tenders, William Crammond outside on the rig. The pressurized chambers were be separated to descend to the required depth. of time and resources, streamlining the transition and the pressurized living quarters. pressure is a diver's worst enemy. Ambient for every 33 feet of water depth. Each additional to 14.6 pounds per square meter on the body. face severe limitations due to the nature not descending to high pressures but returning the increasing water pressure causes nitrogen saturating it in proportion to the rise in breathe a specialized mixture of gases inside the known as "heliox". This mixture is adjusted the term 'Saturation diving'. the rapid pressure release leads to This condition forces the dissolved nitrogen forming nitrogen bubbles throughout the body. severe joint pain, paralysis, and even death. is to cautiously return to the surface, to diffuse naturally. However, the oil On this routine day, the life support technicians chambers matched what the divers needed the dive control team operated the diving crane as they monitored the divers' activities. had just completed their maintenance work at a 295 feet and ascended back to the surface using diving bell needed to be reattached to the diving pressure. Meanwhile, on the surface, Roy Lucas the next shift when Truls and Bjorn returned. diving belongs to the Tenders, who assist The umbilical is the physical lifeline of the air supply and communication with the surface. docking the diving bell to the pressurized Byford Dolphin. The Tenders hold the lives of they were already working for over 12 hours. and Martin Saunders, were ready to connect living chambers, as Truls Hellevik and Crammond successfully connected the diving deposited Bjorn Bergersen and Truls Hellevik performed the process and knew it by heart. into the rest area and removing the diving bell 1. Close the diving bell door, which 2. Slightly increase the pressure in the 3. Close the chamber 1 door, 4. Slowly depressurize the trunk until 5. Open the clamp to separate the Suddenly, all hell broke loose! Crammond opened decompressed the chambers. The diving bell closed, releasing an &quot;explosive depressurization.&quot; chambers, yanking Hellevik off his feet as The air pressure inside the bell instantly shifted while 297 feet below the water -- to 1 atmosphere, The explosive rush of air out of the flying. The diving bell struck Crammond Either Crammond disconnected the diving bell leader ordered the coupling lock to be removed Crammond ultimately succumbed to his injuries. he didn't walk away unscathed. When he was partially under the 4-ton diving He also suffered from 3 fractures in his the four divers inside was far worse. While of the violent and unplanned decompression gave Decompression like this is a death sentence, and between the recent Ocean Gate disaster the diver's remains weren't lost to the sea. unfortunate souls provides little comfort bodies went through which can still be found The divers never once realized what effects of their horrible deaths. Despite and Bergersen's blood &quot;boiled&quot; instantly in nitrogen suddenly returned to their gaseous state. from nitrogen expansion, fat accumulated and and livers. The explosion of force from the gas the divers throughout the inside of the chamber. and Coward unrecognizable, Hellevik suffered the connecting door. The pressure equalization causing Hellevik's body to be forced through a tremendous force of 25 tons Unable to fit the horrifying outcome of his internal organs During the examination, investigators found and some of his small intestine left behind inside as if they were harvested or expertly dissected In the end, the incident resulted in a total accident left little blood behind despite At first, people were quick to blame the crew, a the causes of the accident. The crew worked could have easily happened. However, no one decision to unlatch the system incorrectly and Crammond having passed away, the true reason To minimize the considerable risks, only most importantly the pressure-driven transfer, However, the North Sea Divers Alliance, divers and the victims' relatives, believed that divers faulty equipment. They maintained that the necessary fail-safes to prevent the disaster. equipment during the operation was from features. One key missing feature was an prevented Crammond from opening the trunk while officials revised Norwegian regulations to Still, many people believed the sole mechanism. But decades later, the story changed. government, which was in charge of the their responsibility for the incident and It was only in 2009 that the government families of all six victims, including faulty equipment caused the accident rather than loud environment interfering with communications The Byford Dolphin rig was a prominent fixture operating in various locations worldwide. By rig, ending the saga of its eventful and