When cutting out images and removing the background, There's common problems we have. You can get jaggies, blockies, halos, or helmet This tutorial is going to show you how to a comprehensive look into the Select and Mask This is a two-part tutorial. This first part, we're going to look at things we're going to dive into the rest of the tools. And make sure you watch all the way to the in there. Let's get started. Some people like to launch the tool first I like to make selection first because number to the full suite of Photoshop's tools to refine the edges. Let's grab the Object Selection tool. Now, any one of these three tools here will Now, what I'm going to do is hit the little There's two options, Device and We're going to choose Select Subject. Now, the AI in Photoshop is going to make This is not a comprehensive tutorial on making I have many more of those. This is a tutorial on refining the selections. Once you've made your selection, then we're As I mentioned, some people prefer to make to the Select Subject tool up here. You can also use this is the same as using I just find it works a lot slower working Okay, so the selection is active. We just don't see it, and that's because we it all the way up. Right now, we're viewing it inside the Onion Now, if we click on the View, we'll see there's The three I use the most are on black. This enables me to see white fringes. On white, it enables me to see black fringes, And black and white gives us a clear view and what isn't. Now, the areas that are black are 100% transparent. The areas that are white are going to be 100% Now, when you see areas of gray, those areas Now, of course, there's other options such different colors. Now, here's just a quick tip. If you know what background you're putting work. You can see that dark fringe around there. You wouldn't have to worry about that if you Notice it got the white fringing around the If we were going to put this against a light that. So don't do more work than you need to do. And if you're getting any value out of this notifications, you won't miss any of my videos. So right now there's two modes. There's color aware and object Object Aware. So color aware works the best when we have Object aware works best when we're using a So right now we're working on a simple background. The reason for that is this is a tutorial. I want to clearly show you what the tools background. This is not a review to see how well this for me to see how good I am at cutting out This is a tutorial for people to understand tools do. Now, let me just quickly go into the black So this tool knows that these areas in white in black are the areas we're going to throw Where all these tools work and where all the And that's the purpose of this, is to get of image we're working on. So let's turn on Show Edge so we can view So I would have to put something in here to So that's the Selection Edge. Now, this edge is where Photoshop detects be on the outside. This is the decision zone. Now, let me change this to on black so we If I was to increase this radius, you can Now, here's the thing. Where we have hard edges, such as the edges small selection, and that will give us a nice Where we have soft areas such as hair and this area and enables the algorithm to sort be there. Now, one edge does not fit all. When we look on this image, you can see the Maybe the dress might fit in with some of One tip, you don't have to do everything in Sometimes you can go into one refinement, do it for the hard areas, mask them together, So in order to get a clean selection, you So I'm going to drop this radius down to one, That edge is there even though you can't see So what we want is we want a wider edge around So if I grab this tool here, the Refine tool, to paint it around the edges of the hair, were getting missed out before. Maybe I'll put this on white so you can see Notice up here, see how we start to get some Now, if we look on show edge, notice what As we've painted around the hair, we probably We're expanding in that area. Okay, let me undo this because I'm going to So we know now we want to paint around that So you'll see an option that says Refine hair. Turn that on, and that will do it for you. So let's turn the edge back off, and we can Now, I can still refine it by using the Refine And in fact, I would use this Refine tool. Let's make it a little smaller. Left bracket key, we would run it around the Look at this. And now we get that softer edge back again. See how that just blends in? And if we look at the show edge, that's because those little fairy edges to show through. And sometimes you can view it like this. Let's turn that Edge off. If we want to view it on black, See how now And if you want to compare this with the original We can see this is what it used to look like. And here it is after the adjustments we've We have more settings over here under the You can click on there to open them. Here's the thing. If you don't need to make any adjustments For many cases, what we've already done is So if we zoom in here, we can see maybe that So there's other tools that we can use to And these are going to be under the refinements. So we have an edge like this. I like to call it the smudgies, where some Let's have a look on the mask and see what We can see there's a gray edge there. What we want is a solid edge, not that gray And we can actually fix that by increasing See how that contrast will push those gray Let's look at it on the image. Increasing that contrast, see how that pushes However, when we If we do that, notice we The jaggies are those rough edges. Now, we can fix those by using smooth. So if I increase the smooth, notice how we We can totally fix those issues. However, when we start to use these tools get helmet hair. Let me show you. Turn the smooth off. So notice that the smooth is affecting the When we increase that contrast, we also increase hair. So what do we do? I just want to preface for a lot of cases, But if we want to go further, what we want we've done for the soft areas and create a So the way we're going to do this, I'm just create a new layer with a layer mask and click And we're going to call this soft. So now we've got a good selection and a good But it's not perfect on things like her arms. Once again, this is good enough for many situations. But let me show you what we would do. Let's hide that layer, go back into the background We're going to choose Select Subject one more Now we go back into Select a Mask. This time we don't care about the hair and We already got that. Let's just focus on this arm. Okay, so we got some jaggies here. Let's have a look at those on the black and Okay, so this time we're going in here and the jaggies as we had before. And the reason for that is we haven't made hair and the skirt. So it's actually looking pretty good now. There is a little adjustment we can make, We could increase the smoothness just a little See how that just nicely smoothens those edges. And we can give it a little bit of contrast. So it's looking good. There's a little aliasing there, and sometimes Can fix that. So this would actually give us a pretty good Now we're going to look at these tools in But right now we're going to output this to to call this one hard. Okay, so we've got the two different layers. The bottom one here has the best on the skin for the hair and the soft edges. So we want to use the best of both. Now, the challenge is if I go in and I start lose our edges. So here's a tip. What I'm going to do is I'm going to take Command G for group. This puts it into a group and this enables So now I can mask this layer without affecting So what I want to do is I just want to hide So I'm going to grab a brush, make sure we've hides, and we'll use the soft edge brush. Now we'll just blend in a little bit nicer, That's all we've got to do. Now, let's do the bottom part. Now, if I turn this on, this shows it everywhere. And notice it affects the hair. So what we're going to do is we're going to Control G or Command G gives us a group. And so now we've got the hard edge in its But this time, I'm going to hold down the and this hides it. So all I want to do is I just want to show Notice it's already masked, so I just want So I'm going to grab that mask. So I'm just going to grab white for the foreground bring in the nice edge. So now we're able to merge both of the mask So there's one other thing I want to show then I'm going to do an additional tutorial hard edges. So here's a picture of a lion. And we're going to grab our Object Selection Use cloud for better quality and choose Select Now we're going to choose Select a mask. Notice we've got the fur all the way around. So rather than choosing the Refine tool, let's open up the option for a refined hair, and And notice that does a much better job of Now, notice we've got dark edges around here. We can fix these by using decontaminate colors. Watch what happens when I click decontaminate Notice that we get beautiful color here now Now it's a little aggressive and we're starting We're losing some hairs. So this is where we can use the amount and Then we can blend decontaminate colors and Now, remember, you don't have to use all of In fact, you should use the minimum amount So that's part one of two. I hope you learned something new. If you did, drop a comment underneath and Now, the second part is going to dive into refinements, where I'm going to show you what where to use it. So I'll link to that right here. If you're watching this the day it came out, So anyway, if you're new, welcome to Photoshop Hit the subscribe button, turn on notifications. You won't miss any of my tutorials. And until next time, I'll see you at the cafe.