First released in June of 2010, Happy Wheels and influential flash games ever created. The platforming adventure style game with with a unique gameplay experience that had for users to create and upload their own custom and replay value. By 2013, the game had absolutely taken YouTube by various gaming channels like PewDiePie of millions of views, driving immense traffic Millions of casual players browsed the seemingly try them out, with dozens of levels eventually which broke the mind-boggling 100 million Aside from the game's essentially endless that drove many people to find value in playing Upon reaching the flag at the end of any given exact amount of time that it took to complete Moreover, the game gives users the ability upload it to the game's servers for other Speedrunning was essentially built into the to refine their skills and optimize their to try and achieve the fastest times possible. Unfortunately, this system had a significant list is flooded with "inaccurate" replays them, thanks to minute differences that exist Flash Player plugin handle floating point When playing Happy Wheels, the game checks of your computer (either 32 or 64) to see on your machine. Unfortunately, with Happy Wheels being such configurations existing, the in-game leaderboard properly archiving speedruns, and it is impossible of differing hardware or because the game Engine. This problem was only made worse when the after the death of flash on the web, as the make every single replay performed before on the flash version of the game. Thankfully, a solution to this enormous problem on speedrun.com. For any featured level in the game found under video recording of their own replay or live where it could be properly preserved and where performed, regardless of what computer hardware Additionally, leaderboards were hosted for of the game, where the only official form inaccurate Game Center leaderboards on the where every level was flooded with hundreds On some levels, there were certain time ceilings this. For example, any runs faster than 19 seconds thought that getting a run faster than that However, with speedrun skips, people were this limit, turning the GameCenter leaderboard get the closest to that time without going While many of the times on the game's speedrun.com runners often pouring in hours upon hours less than a minute long, usually to shave Wheels speedrun that stands far above the how much time and dedication was spent to You see, if you travel to the full-game section find a few different categories that involve in the game. Of these three main categories; one of them that wasn't even hosted on the game's A common tactic for flash game developers was to provide a version of the game that These versions allowed people to play just a link to the game's main website if they If you've seen some of the other videos the 5 king.com sitelocked bonus levels in very similar philosophy. Another version of this tactic came in the the full game, but it would display ads that by the later Red Ball games sponsored by NotDoppler. The Happy Wheels Demo consists of nine different what Happy Wheels has to offer. Some of these levels allow any of the characters default to a specific character. As you may have guessed, the Demo category with one of the available characters. The levels can be completed in any order, and ends upon reaching the flag platform at While individual level speedruns of Happy strategies hundreds, if not thousands of times instead challenged players to remain extremely optimizing their movement over a span of several any other large mistakes. Unlike the full game's All Featured Levels to be completed over the span of around 4-6 right for allowing players to truly optimize by the sheer quantity of levels. The first submitted Demo speedrun was performed in at 5:23. He starts out with Obstacle Course as his inconsistent, and he chooses the Wheelchair him the fastest choice for this level. Irresponsible Dad does have an exploit where by mashing the shit out of the left and right the more optimal selection. Aelbaegau performs a small skip in this level avoided thanks to Wheelchair Guy's rocket Aelbaegau performs quick menuing to the next of the run, and he picks the Wheelchair Guy eats u. Kindof an odd level concept, but I guess that's built-in level editor with seemingly infinite Next up is BMX Park II, where the Irresponsible level called SnowyMountain*Final* where a on some kind of zipline system to reach one Aelbeagau decides to choose the 4th fastest on the zipline for around a minute and a half very right side of the screen. Subsequently, Dawn of the Dead lv.1 requires through a few buildings and to hitch a ride 25 seconds, where the ending platform can Next up, Aelbeagau goes for TrapTrac, an obstacle of precise movement to avoid dying. Unfortunately, he clipped through one of the forcing him to start it all over again, costing He then moves on to IT KEEPS HAPPENING!, a be observed. Normally, the player is supposed to carefully met with a large boost ramp that potentially platform near the start of the level, something However, by leaning back on Wheelchair Guy, completely cheese the level, completing it Finally, there is Rope Swings, a fairly challenging intended to dismount the segway and use the level. However, Aelbeagau instead backs up, waiting a jump that lands on the booster, but he unfortunately Thankfully, on his second try, he hits the at just the right time to fly over the second level. But, hold on a second... if you take a look he only completed 8 out of the 9 demo levels. Which level did he leave out, and why? Well, "Gut Bus Extreme!" is a level that pitched the idea for the Demo category. You see, the player is supposed to enter the they are then tossed around by quite a few dying or the bus stopping far before the finish. Since there was seemingly no way to control RNGfest of a level would probably be unfit He also didn't want it included because more attainable, which is certainly an interesting Furthermore, when the category was initially being excluded on the basis that it was "impossible" However, this was obviously not the case, Dray would complete a Demo run that did include strategy that made the level far quicker, In his first PB of 5:38, Dray successfully container with Wheelchair Guy by using a precise It does seem like it would be impossible to wheelchair is much wider than the available However, by using the rocket, the rotational and when it hits the back wall, the rotation allowing the character to barely squeeze through. He flew through the air to the ending section 30 seconds. With this, a category split was made to house of the Happy Wheels Demo. However, the latter subcategory was eventually for it to exist, wiping Aelbeagau's PBs It is also worth mentioning that, in his run, the Snowy Mountain level that saved over 30 mountain to reach one of the other ending Additionally, Dray incorporated a new strategy bottom of the level without getting stuck, button just before hitting the ground. He then promptly jumped again and dismounted, He also made a small adjustment in "IT KEEPS booster on Wheelchair Guy before boosting backwards. It would take an entire year for Dray to return an absolute bombshell, a PB of 4:57, the first In the entire run, he only really had three Bus Extreme and two quick resets in Rope Swings, There was seemingly still a bit more room description read: "first sub 5, but remember. I'll Be Back" He was certainly right. The very next day, Dray achieved a 4:41. His BMX Park II was way cleaner, and the character's end actually ended up working towards his Aside from two quick resets in Gut Bus Extreme, just becoming cleaner and cleaner. The description of this one read: "luckiest I'll Be Back" Well, there it is again. Dray would be back, but how much further could By refining his movement and implementing the escape button twice to skip end panel around 10 seconds across the run, Dray had Happy Wheels Demo. It is worth mentioning that, during Dray's displayed at 1st place on the leaderboard up submitting this run until later. While Dray had managed to maintain his status it certainly wasn't without some competition, of. Just a week later, Dray uploaded a run that A floor clip to the ending platform in TrapTrac made a time as low as a sub 3:40 attainable. The explosion from the mine gave the Segway with the ending platform's hitbox before This strategy had been known about all the the category, with it having been utilized but its sheer difficulty and inconsistency until now. By starting with TrapTrac, Dray was able to level out of the way first, and he ended up the category's history. "yeah im done with demo for a while... i dont know if i can beat this." "This is going to be beaten soon, hopefully" where he descended in crawl mode instead of 9 seconds with optimal movement, unlocking He did work this strategy out on his own, qwerty had already performed a blazing fast which he would later uncover. Unfortunately, it would take Dray around 4 Thankfully, it would be quite the comeback. The man had done it, sub 3:30. No deaths and no resets. In TrapTrac, Dray was assisted by a more consistent which did not require him to jump to hit the While going up the ramp, he would hold up, allowing him to preserve most of his speed. Right before reaching the top of the ramp, grabbed the wall behind the mine, and then Dray commented: "I have spent the last 2.5 About 6 months ago I told myself I would get He seemed to be quite content with the run while sitting atop the leaderboard by 44 seconds. This run was extremely impressive and truly speedrunning, but was it truly the "greatest" Not even close. Dray truly did leave the category alone for However, he would have quite the rude awakening set a personal best of 3:55, and, two days Adam was quite the experienced Happy Wheels record in multiple of the Demo levels prior In his 3:25, his Snowy Mountain completion record thanks to a much more optimal kickback all of the holes in the ground, which is what faster individual level World Record. Dray may have been done with Demo runs back he knew that he had to return. In October of 2020, he snapped back with a To match Adam's gameplay in Snowy Mountain, instead of TrapTrac. This was more risky, since TrapTrac was still of Snowy Mountain, 15 seconds faster than The only really noticeable issue with the in Dawn of the Dead due to him being unprepared level out of order. However, he remarked in the description that and Satan and that TrapTrac and Gut Bus Extreme With better menuing and gameplay, he knew was going to go for it. A month later, he shaved just a second off "This shouldn't be here for a while. Sub 3 please don't take too long." Another year passed, and... nothing. It seems like the sub 3 was just too much However, behind the scenes, Dray was not down He was still grinding the category; periodically reach the milestone. And, in December of 2021, the bombshell finally 2:59. On Christmas Eve, Dray had finally broken tail end of an over 8 hour long attempt session, before 2022 thanks to an upcoming vacation. The dedication was just astonishing; he had years, and it had actually just happened. He had truly become the master of the Snowy level in just 29 seconds. However, in true Dray fashion, he wasn't of the extremely dumb death that he had at Now that he had broken the immense mental to apply his true potential in the category, Once again, he was back to the grind. Two months later, in February of 2022, he a failed starting room exit in Gut Bus Extreme, The same month, he was on a run that was already a slightly unoptimal Satan, he was easily Extreme. He got it. And then... 6 seconds ahead. But how had Dray saved so much time on this over a tiny piece of glass on the helicopter? In Dawn of the Dead, the helicopter that the invisible rope to a frozen ball that is on When any object, including the player, touches it to roll. What had happened in Dray's run was that start of the level had managed to fly and it to start moving much sooner than intended. On the run of his life, Dray had just been him around 10-15 times before in his thousands He nailed "IT KEEPS HAPPENING!", but then... A bit of a tragic end to an absolutely insane And, that's where the story ends; he had Oh, come on, do you seriously think that Dray Before doing more runs, Dray sought to find the early helicopter activation to be based keypresses, rather than it relying on pure In a deterministic game like Happy Wheels, as an earlier execution, it will always lead The first setup that he found involved buffering to cause a stationary jump, releasing jump explosion. However, because of the stationary jump, this Next, he found a setup that involved buffering on exactly the 21st frame after starting, jump. He started going for this setup in runs despite in his PB. However, a few dozen runs in, Dray would accidentally helicopter activation setup. He pressed shift way too early, on frame 18 that he had failed the strategy, but this The glass had reached the helicopter way sooner early that he wasn't even able to reach If he was somehow able to reach the helicopter, faster than the early activation in his PB Thankfully, by incorporating some more optimal that it was possible to not just reach the which saved an additional second. Despite having the new setup at his disposal, Through his failed runs, he had an additional desire to bop the then-standing world record of Sweden. Yes, seriously. Two months and more than 10,000 more attempts Gut Bus Extreme after hitting the frame 18 Sadly, he failed the first try room exit in However, this time, he didn't mess up the himself a 2:46. Judging from the description, there was still The very same day, he was ahead going into save any time due to unoptimal gameplay in He maintained the small lead and got a lower Still not what he wanted. Thankfully, four days later, the stars would Dray's speedrun of the Happy Wheels demo doubt, the greatest happy wheels speedrun The years of dedication and the tens of thousands in a nearly flawless speedrun with essentially Demo Any% was initially a category that challenged attempting the craziest strategies in each world record up into 9 different individual to convince people that the completions were immense pressure. There is still a bit of room to push the run being attainable through movement optimization For example, there is a strategy in Satan he would simply not dismount from the wheelchair up to two seconds. However, with second place sitting 42 seconds there isn't really too much incentive for He finally got the run that he wanted. In Dray's own words: "i will return to throne, however it is currently a very, very So, do you know when you started playing Happy Most people who have heard of Happy Wheels I never played the online game. I started playing Demo in middle school with want to do homework. So like how many years ago was that? 7 or 8 years. That's crazy. Yeah, and I've played it consistently the I've probably taken a 6 month break at the I have three or four different documents where level 100 times, and I've done that three So I know that LiveSplit showed that you had you got your 2:43, but I know that you only so how many attempts total would you estimate Attempts is really hard because this is probably 14,000 resets, I only started doing that whenever ago maybe, so if you multiply that times... Yeah, yeah, it's a lot No, no, absolutely over 100,000 attempts. If we are talking hours, I probably have somewhere only Demo. Holy smokes, that is absolutely mindblowing... Dray's unique dedication to Happy Wheels I have ever seen in speedrunning. The ability for someone to almost single handedly no attention being drawn to them is truly Dray's story is truly the most genuine representation goal solely because they themselves want to whatsoever by the reactions that other people Indeed, Dray's 2:43, the speedrun that he currently sits on YouTube with just 46 views. So, please, do yourself a favor, and go watch by his story, please consider dropping him The paths that people walk in the speedrunning it's crazy to think that if it weren't mobile speedruns back in 2017, I probably story and share it with you all. If you did end up enjoying this video, please below this video as there are still so many However, if you are on mobile, don't accidentally might accidentally add one of my videos to and counting. Anyways, just know that speedrunning at its or respect for your accomplishments; the most set a goal for yourself and you do whatever So, pick up a controller or keyboard and start You never know where it might lead. Thank you all very much for watching. An enormous thank you goes out to Dray, aggeL, helping me out immensely with this project. If you are wanting to watch more scripted entire retrospective series over on his channel in-game replays, and speedrunning, so I highly I hope that you all have a great rest of your