The shock wave hit it, caused the refrigerator to get lofted, and now it's moving faster Well, that just can't happen. My name is Greg Spriggs. I work at the Lawrence Prior to that, I worked at the Los Alamos National Laboratory Today we're going to be and trying to judge What are you doing? Batman: I can get it out over the bay. Actually, that was one of the better ones. It had the right shape, The fireball eventually cools, and it cools very rapidly So, the length of time that is referred to as the glow time. It's out over the bay. These mushroom clouds can go up as high as 40,000 feet in the air, so you'd be able to see it from way off. There'd be no danger for nuclear fallout unless the wind was blowing So, there's a general rule of thumb. If you look at the cloud, the then you will have zero If it looks dirty, then it means that dirt and now there's a carry material, which will bring the and create local fallout. So if you detonated over the The people that were kind of felt a breeze. That happened a lot too soon. It would've taken a finite length of time for that shock wave to make it out there. And I would give it a seven. The flash was good, and the shape of the detonation was good. [beeping] It went off, and then this through that fissure. Potentially, if they it would break up the asteroid if the asteroid is small enough. It would be very difficult to get a weapon big enough in yield to cause it to completely break up. That would be a very In outer space, of course, and if there was, why It's a spherical shock wave. There would be a bright flash, and everything would cool so you wouldn't be seeing this long glow time that they show in the movie and people on Earth looking up You would see the flash, but it would only last If it's small enough and then it could possibly It could burn itself out. These two halves, yeah, that For realism, I'd give it a one. If you went in and actually and tried to break it up, how do you know what it's going to break up into and where are the pieces going to fly? This is a matter of life and death. They were trying to hold This was a test. They weren't certain that this particular and so this was sort of the prototype, and they didn't go to great lengths to make everything really robust. So they were just basically to hold things in place. And the actual one probably was and more engineered to be a real weapon. The reason they suspended they wanted to get it above the ground so they could measure the shock wave. There was a lot of uncertainty, There was a lot of uncertainty and if it did work, how much And so they needed to and they didn't want the shock wave interacting with the surface. They thought that if they that they would kind of suppress the amount of nuclear by all the dirt being lofted. Detonator's charged. They had actually built several shelters for the scientists. I think the closest shelter And of course everybody When the detonation goes off, but it would protect their eyes. Here are the glasses. Very, very dark. Right now, I can't see anything. But if a nuclear detonation Three, two, one. They were all laying down might get to them and that it wouldn't be a direct hit. You don't want to have a big surface area if the shock wave is coming over. You want to be kind of laying flat. There have been situations where the yield was a little bit higher than what people thought a little bit closer to the observers, that people have actually gotten I don't think the sunscreen It's basically a heat flux that hits you. I guess it would've helped For the accuracy of what and how they hung it from maybe a seven. Oh, that can't be good at all. Back in the '50s, they of showing the nuclear weapons. The weapon that was they actually had what that were built up at the top. The cab itself had either plywood walls or had some sort of curtain. They were paranoid that some other nation was going to fly over and take a photograph of The bomb was just sitting in Again, not quite true to history. Loudspeaker: Seven, six, four, three. The lead-lined refrigerator Everybody knows about lead poisoning. Why would you have a You would need several in order to actually to the point where he might've If the house had a basement, I would've gone out, That's probably the only from the thermal blast Got several of the physics things correct. The first thing that happens after a nuclear detonation occurs is that you get a large You get neutrons and prompt gammas coming off of the fissioning process. You don't necessarily see that. An observer might actually in close enough, and that The next thing is that there's You get this very intense thermal blast from a nuclear detonation that you do not get with And so anything that's close such as the mannequins in the front yards, those The timescale was a little wrong. That incineration occurs Those mannequins would've within a couple tenths of a second. As for the glass, the thermal pulse would've so the glass probably And it's not until the that things actually get smashed. Here you have a shock wave, and the car is keeping in front of it, and then the refrigerator's faster than the shock wave. The shock wave hit it, caused the refrigerator to get lofted, and now it's moving faster Well, that just can't happen. As the shock wave goes out, into what we call an acoustic wave. It's traveling at the speed of sound. So imagine this refrigerator going at 760 miles an hour. I don't think it has even with the lead in it, to withstand that kind of an impact. When the shock first goes and it leaves behind a where the detonation occurred, which causes a huge buoyant force. And as that bubble starts to rise, it sucks everything back in. So this is called the negative phase. So, in this case, Indy would but he would've been thrown out and then sucked back in again. I would give it a three He got the thermal pulse right, and he got the positive phase But the rest of it kind of fell apart. The subsidence crater is produced by a cavity that's created underground. When the detonation goes off, but the material's still there, And there's a lot of air And what happens basically is you get this very high-temperature, very in the cavity, and it It's kind of like taking and stepping on it. And it surrounding dirt, into which leaves the cavity behind. [beeping] This is one of the problems with these nuclear is they try to incorporate Where did that bright If it was underground, you There certainly is a shock and it moves very, very fast. The way it was portrayed it looks like it's some bulging up and kind of And they've actually filmed this. They did approximately 800 After they stopped doing they decided they would do There's no tidal wave of the dirt bunching up the way they showed it. And there would be no shock that would damage a Shock wave took down the damn chopper. That's EMP, electromagnetic pulse. You don't get an EMP unless high in the atmosphere, which then can interfere electronic equipment on the earth. You generate these high You would not get that with They were trying to take all nuclear-weapon effects and put it into one detonation underground. I would also give it a one. It certainly wasn't realistic. If you took a nuclear out in true outer space, but in outer space, what happens is the bomb would vaporize that would be deposited There is no shock wave in outer space. Shock wave can only occur moving through some other medium. And they kind of show this ball of gas, which, that would not be associated with the nuclear detonation itself. Too much mass involved with it. And also, it would cool When you're in outer space, you and you would see a bright flash, and it would last for maybe and then it would go completely black. Now, the fact that they put this inside of some sort of a structure that was actually exploding there and not the nuclear detonation. You know, if this down the length of this spaceship, then OK, it lasts longer. But if it were an it would cool almost immediately. It was my least favorite. I'd give it a one. I have never even seen that before. I don't even know what would I'm not sure where they came up with that. If they had detonated you may not have gotten a cloud at all. It's sort of like an underground shot. If you go deep enough, you really don't see the When the detonation goes off, it creates this low-density region, and it basically would be a big And that has a buoyant effect. And as it pops up, it They do have the shock wave moving out, and the water spout does kind of form. These kind of shots do produce waves. They're not very big waves, That's not something that would The shock wave would've and then it would hit And there's a possibility on the side like that with that it could cause antennas But certainly there above the surface that was During Operation Crossroads, which was the first they wanted to see what on the Navy fleet if a detonation So they took a lot of the and they put them in the and they detonated the shot under it. The other ships ended up from the nuclear fallout. Again, it was close enough to the surface that probably the shock hit the hull, and could But for the most part, it was that settled onto the decks. Some shock wave emerging and then propagating through the air and knocking the helicopter But again, I mean, if it were close enough and it became part of it would certainly take Again, I would give it a No, sir. It is not a The doomsday machine is designed to trigger itself automatically. I have no knowledge of any This is a fabrication of Hollywood. Woohoo! They actually have to put to give the plane time So as soon as they dropped the bomb, the bomb would drop, the parachute would open In the meantime, the plane go at 90 degrees, and that would make the distance between the the largest distance when It has to be far enough away that the shock wave Woohoo! Film clip of the detonation was real. So he did go to the trouble I would give the detonation a 10, and I would give the