- I'm Darren McGrady, the royal chef, former chef to the Queen, Princess Diana, Prince William, and Prince Harry. I was chef to Princess And I'm going to be making stuffed bell peppers. I remember the first time I was at Balmoral Castle and I was working there And I was helping make some apple pies. And the pastry chef was And we were just chatting. I looked up, and right behind just stood there. My face was a picture. I was just. I think &quot;hello&quot; and &quot;goodbye&quot; I was beet red, and just staring at the princess, all the time. Embarrassing. When I joined Princess Diana, she was a patron of 119 working out at the gym three days a week, looking the best she ever did, she'd conquered and and she said to me, &quot;Darren, &quot;I'll take care of the carbs at the gym.&quot; And my cooking changed. No more heavy creams and rich sauces. It was healthy eating like this one. And the stuffed bell peppers She probably had it two The princess didn't eat beef at all. Occasionally, she'd have For the most part, it something like the stuffed bell pepper, something like stuffed eggplant. She'd also eat fish as well. She loved eating fish, And all of her food contained certainly no creams or Princess Diana didn't mind garlic, no, so a little garlic in there was fine. It was only the Queen, out of the Queen was the only one It always brings back happy The princess, when she would come and eat in the kitchen. And often, she'd come in And I'd be at this stage, and she'd say, &quot;Darren, what's for lunch?&quot; and I'd say, &quot;Well, it's &quot;Your Royal Highness,&quot; and she'd say, &quot;Oh, that's Princess Diana sat When the princess came into One day she walked in, she &quot;Oh, I'll make it, you're busy. &quot;Would you like one?&quot; There was Princess Diana, It was so much more relaxed I don't know that it was She was Her Royal Highness I was just there to cook for her. She did share too many stories, when she use to come and sit We did the same menu or at least we tried to. The princess, though, never stuck to it. The Queen, religious, three days ahead, she had. Princess Diana, no way. &quot;I'm not in the mood for this &quot;can I have liver and onions, &quot;can I have stuffed bell pepper?&quot; The menu book was a waste of time, really, but we still had to do it. When I was cooking for the princess, we'd cook sometimes for sometimes the boys would and then we'd have the The princess only had a small And most of the time, it was just lots of different pasta dishes. Sometimes they'd get the the same as the princess. William and Harry, although they still had children's palates. So I had to fool them a For example, when I did roast they loved the potatoes where and all that fat would run down your chin, so good, so rich, so much fat. Princess Diana, I'd take pull of the skin on the outside, slice it, and then for her roast toss them in egg whites, and so dry bake them, and then When they came to eating, their chicken and roast potatoes, but Princess Diana was healthy The stuffed bell peppers were filled with all the goodies that she and then some rice, just carbs, A little mozzarella in there, too, and of course, some Parmesan cheese. Finishing that with a made it a really nice, healthy dish. I think if any misconception, it was that the princess didn't like food. She did, she conquered that bulimia, and she got her life back on track. She was just looking amazing, and she'd gone into the She was doing juicing and things, I think, before juicing had even been invented. It was real healthy eating, she and she said, &quot;Go and get me some of this, &quot;go and get me some of that,&quot; so it kept me on my toes, too. You know, when we say, Princess Diana, she wasn't into food, she So I have a smoked tomato sauce that would go on the bottom So when you cut into it, it And this was one of the Just a little smoke in there, the tomatoes were grown so this was a perfect accompaniment. Brings back so many happy Every time, I think about the princess, sat there at the table, me And for me, those fun with Prince William and Harry, Harry and William hiding in the kitchen and the princess looking for the boys. They were such special memories,