Hi all! Friends! I hope you turned on subtitles! An exciting video awaits us!) Friends, just look at what a "beautiful" truck frame our subscribers brought us for repairs today! Look at the severe damage here. I've already made a video about repairing truck frames before - but I haven't shown anything like this yet and haven't seen it myself . I think we're in for an exciting video! I will try to make this video dynamic so as not to take up a lot of your time Maxim - can you cope with this task? I'll do it everyone, enjoy watching! we're starting! we need to move this car to our workplace so that you understand: the bottom of the car hit the bump stop. The cabin is intact. Only the bottom was damaged. I got the photos only after I created this video, you might be interested - but with such damage to the car frame - it's almost a whole photo. I'll add an additional photo to the YouTube community. Yes, friends, look at these damages! I don't know how he will repair it Maxim, I understand what you want to do! you attach the frame to this truck and drive forward! half the work will be done) - the main thing is to press the gas pedal harder, friends, if you have not yet subscribed to our channel - I advise you to do this right now) there are many interesting things ahead of you! Thank you! Maxim has sad eyes) can you repair it quickly? Now we are preparing for work. It is necessary to attach these stops to the floor with special clamps to the back of the frame, we need to firmly secure this, we will speed everything up, friends - this is the second working day. Yesterday we didn't have time to do anything. An appeal to our English-speaking viewers, we love our viewers! the stops are ready in their places, in fact there is a lot of preparatory work here, friends, I never asked you for donations, but today we need them for this channel to exist. Under this video you have a &quot;super thank you&quot; or &quot;sponsorship&quot; button . We will be very grateful for your any support. Now we do it all with enthusiasm. But it's hard to continue. Thank you for every 0.1 dollar - you are the best! &quot;Message to Spanish-speaking viewers&quot; friends, thank you for your support! Honestly! it means a lot to us. Thanks to you, this channel exists. Thank you, every click on the "subscribe" button, click on the "like" button, every comment you make gives life to this channel. We appreciate you! Thank you! can I touch it? friends, I have a question for you! Is it more interesting for you to watch a video where I cut off a lot of moments and leave the most interesting ones - or is it better to post a 2-hour video with more moments? in fact, here you see everything - that it's easy, in fact it was long and interesting) I filmed this video - it was difficult!! leave a message to Maxim in the comments) not everything is as easy as it seems when you watch the video) but in the video I show you everything quickly and easily) we value your time) thanks again to those who subscribed to the channel, left a comment or liked) this priceless! without a blow with a sledgehammer - like without a carrot (Russian proverb) assessing the situation, now you need to think for a couple of hours what to do next)) this is not chess, here you need to think)) Tyson God of boxing) I expect comments from the audience in style: why do all this, if it is possible to make a new frame like in Pakistan) we will respond to all comments; something is done in silence) as you can see - everything here is intuitive: here you pull - here you push) everything is simple))) but - there are nuances, this is for you You don't need to solve problems in higher mathematics at the university here - you need to think with your head))) Vadim, what are your thoughts? what should I do? I don't know! -get behind the wheel of a dump truck and drive forward - we'll do half the work! - let's go friend! We don't need a steering wheel, the wheels are straight to the creek! crap, crap! let's go, friend!) That's what you came up with. press a little here. then you will send an appeal to our viewers from Indonesia closer here! we appreciate you! friends - you only see the top of everything - in fact, everything is very complicated there! do you want to see the video in real performance?? This also applies to engine repairs. Which format is better: short or long - but how is it????? this is called an induction heater; with one touch, it heats the metal to a red color; sometimes I'm also in the frame) all this needs to be done well. then it needs to be strengthened; on the other hand, there is also a tear in the metal; this equipment costs a lot of money; it is produced in Europe. They do the same work in Europe too. something like this. a little simpler)) European masters won't do this, of course) they have neither experience nor desire) or for this work they will ask for 20 times more than it costs here) let's try to clarify: how much do you think Maxim received in your country for this work?? and write the country in the comments) thank you!) it's so long - you can't imagine the force that bent this thick 3cm plate??? &quot;an appeal to people who speak Portuguese) we appreciate you! There are a lot of you! Love) is it better? Then you'll watch the video of how we talked! If you can call office work difficult, then what should you call this work) it's already been 7 days)) what do you think - how much money does Maxim earn?) And write the country from which you think) THANK YOU) there are an infinite number of these processes - that's why I shorten everything, you see only the end result) friends, is our frame looking beautiful? is it?) just kidding - a week has passed))) or 1 day?) what do you think?)) did you bend nails at your grandfather's in the village?) do you think - is it easy?) I remember in childhood we needed nails to build our houses on a tree and my grandfather gave only bent old nails) he says - if you need it, take it) but they are all crooked - it's hard to explain this crookedness. There's not even such a word) but we straightened these nails as best we could with axes. hammers, stones - but in the end we had straight nails)) . Friends! value your loved ones, value your Parents, value your parents' parents, no matter what happens in the World - we love the World! We love People! Thanks everyone! Maxim will go through every centimeter of this frame - to make it perfect and so - now we will show you how to remove this fold. Maxim will show you how to remove it)) molten metal looks terrible - like processed cheese) friend - have you subscribed?)) if NO - then watch the previous video) you have no option not to subscribe to this channel) my wife's targetologist told me to write this phrase!!! I hate it all, a week has passed - everyone has decided) what is happening in the video now? - I came up with something again - what? - I talk to the audience and they say that in Russia nothing can be solved without a sledgehammer) this is not true, friends. Every Russian has a fist like a sledgehammer loud? There is a break in this place - now we'll try to fix it. I don't like it when the boss comes and looks at your work! boss: I'm interested too! I just now realized how this piece of hardware works! it is for leveling the plane, we already went through this in our school!! who watched up to this point Maxim was given a like for his work?) these are 1-2 people in the whole world who can do this! looks scary. apocalypse Friends, those who have watched up to this point are definitely the guys from our skating rink... it's impossible to just watch it all like that) although sometimes it's better to look at welding than at what's happening in the World! I was covering the neighboring MAN TGX, we are moving to the 2nd spar, you can't say that , I remember that it didn't work about 1000 times) give Max a like! he tried for 3 weeks , I just take pictures, no problems. Easy to film, easy to edit video) half an hour) this is repeated thousands of times. I'm not showing this, but it is true , but this process lasted about 5 hours . Maxim is actually a MONSTER in this matter. He has no competitors in Europe, America, or anywhere else) But he was trained by his grandfather - this is the history of this organization! He taught Maxim. There is a video with GRANDFATHER on the channel - come on in) but Max already has his own skills) in general, all this is difficult) someday I will make a video - an interview with all of them. only at this point a week has passed)) from Friday to Friday from 8 am to 6 pm and for the audience everything happens quickly!) We, of course, cut everything off in the video, you see only the most important)) but this is the most difficult repair that I film on video, this is how it happens in the comments you can appreciate Maxim's work Mazkim will answer your questions, we are rushing into a new work week, we have installed the front traverse , it feels like this is an endless job, if it is not difficult for anyone - give the channel 1 cent by pressing the button - thank you very much. it's a small thing for you - but you'll support the guys with 1 cent "isn't it beautiful?" I don't ask anymore - so as not to piss you off, subscribe - from us the content we look at the diagonals, the diagonals are the same, we make factory rivets we make factory rivets interesting, induction heats up the metal so much that I can touch the back side with my finger, induction only heats the place where it was touched if if you heated it with a gas burner, I'm sure I wouldn't be able to touch it_) friends, let's remember where we came from started..... this???? how to do this???? It's easier to become a Pole than to repair it! This is how the work turned out in my opinion - this is the most difficult repair I have ever seen; the customer himself said that he would strengthen and paint this frame himself. If you liked this video, please like it. if not, also like it; if there are problems, let's solve it. we are always for: I found out that I have a huge family... thank you for being with us! hugged! Max - are you happy with the result? Yes, I want to go to the bathhouse , friends, thanks to everyone who watched up to this point! IT'S NOW 5:30 am and I've been doing this for a week. this video is at night in a couple of hours I need to go to work here I am making a picture for this video - and here I am making this video I hugged you all! until the new video! PEACE to the whole world!