The End: 2b2t's least populated dimension. its dangers, the lack of portals to reach player looks out from the end island and probably 10 years of the server being online, many this massive void of islands, but most people entire history of 2b2t's End dimension... In late 2010, 2b2t began, and as players traveled its 1.0 release phase in late 2011, including and the spawn chunks were already loaded, Players asked the owner of 2b2t, Hausemaster, that 2b2t can continue without admin interference But near the end of 2011, 2b2t was backdoored, in the game, including End portal frames. and they would travel to NFE, the most established they attempted to activate a portal, but when frame, nothing happened. They thought Hausemaster up entering the End and abandoned their portal. a stack of portal frames. He believed that block-for-block for the portal to activate, and built a replica of a stronghold's portal and asserting the eyes of Ender into the frames, In shock, xcc2 and policemike55 stepped into 2b2t's history to generate the End dimension. Dragon fly, they realized they had jumped fight, so they jumped off the End island. and together they entered the portal and fought dragon was defeated, and jdw99666 managed Following the Ender Dragon's demise, many all throughout 2b2t, and the Dragon egg was an end portal location, xcc2 gave the players to the End portal under NFE. They wanted to However, Suedo's account was cracked and leak. Due to Suadeo's absence, Barnard didn't and built the End base for two and half months as mobile storage. Not much happened out there, of nowhere. To Jack, it was peaceful. But one day, Jack logs into his base to find Frantically, Jack searched around his base AFK at Jack's enderman farm. As Jack got he had the same idea to build a base in the and Kidney bridged off and made his own platform valuables in his two accounts and logged out. While Jack was building his base, jdw99666 it was possible to use pistons to make copies gravel or sand. Dragon eggs happened to be were used to make multiple copies of them. amongst 2b2t players. One day, Jack logs on He thinks they were found. As Jack mined the overworld but at the exact coordinates as and xcc2 told him that Hausemaster had shut Hausemaster had been inactive for several without his knowledge. When Hausemaster realized furious. He went around the server, deleting frames from player inventories. He also deleted the End and made it so that any endstone that on out. A plugin was installed so that right-clicking and finally, Hausemaster deleted 2b2t's After a year of the End being deleted, players and suggested that he get to the spots that and use the '/regenerate' command to create and portals. Hausemaster listened and officially could finally enter. The players iTristan, Ender Dragon. For the following months, the into the End, creating dirt and stone bridges to build an End base. Players like Omaliymix, island with infinite grass blocks to make in massive obsidian towers and a gigantic was rumored that Hausemaster was trying to but players never got a clear answer. A player named Levi12 made an end base on created a secret base not too far from spawn Atrika built a base as well. By this point, monster created by Fuzzypuffball. He used C. A. M. P." By 2014, most players didn't the lack of portals to reach it, and the general time for Jack to build a new end base. From March 10th to May 16th of 2014, the server By June, Jack had made several friends on decided that their next base should be in bridged off a kilometer and a half over the farm he could get. They knew it would be a their base. When the server eventually returned to the for a while. In August 2014, Hausemaster installed But this also patched holes in the End at or placed a block, it would update the chunk of Jack's Valkyrian friends, Stupidwalrus[a], tell him about the bedrock platforms and told an island out of bedrock, and build whatever 2014, few players lived in the End, but some did. Pyrobyte made a large bedrock floor near an ender pearl farm. After the self-grief of Asgard II in 2015, the End had been open for a couple of years End base? So he walked back to spawn through with his friends - the ones who would be Stupidwalrus where he built his End base, on the bedrock path, Jack arrived at Stupidwalrus' got all the hard work of wrangling the mobs but the massive bedrock path leading right Jack couldn't live there directly, but he the void, lay the foundation, and bring two what it would look like, but he had an idea Lands called "The Sky Temple of Autism." have every amenity possible over the void. told Jack that infinite blocks were back. Pyrobyte. Slowly, Jack built from the bottom into a gigantic tower, its real name being the structure at The Lands. The name was later After the third incursion, a player named He made a pilgrimage to the End and went as he accidentally found Space Valkyria and looked launching pad to continue traveling. From End, farther than anyone else had been at point, he started creating a base known as In May 2015, Pyrobyte was AFK at Space Valkyria, exploit on him. Soon after, the players Jared2013 it. The base members caught Jared2013 in the Before the griefers would arrive again, Jack what is now commonly referred to as Space Due to Space Valkyria's grief, Jack knew that bring attention to the End. Jack figured that he could build even if they knew where he Around this time, taylo112 taught Jack how or lava and then went on his alternate account could realize it. This officially shut down for the rest of 2015. For around 9 months, time, Jack built an entire island in the style more, but got bored of the project. Instead, out of quartz. It wasn't until late 2015, when Mojang announced be updated with new structures and items. was too late to change course. On the bright contents. On the downside, players were going was introduced to 2b2t, elytra were the go-to this point, and players would use boat-fly was the first player to get an Elytra and way to get back and forth from "The Island," Nerds Inc. arrived at the base and griefed By this time, a player named Offtopia decided they arrived, there were already player-made Offtopia traveled to Pyrobyte's now-griefed and one elytra, and then left the End. With the End would have strips of the void left loading chunks using redstone airships. In 2016, some more players would naturally anytime they could. By November, 2b2t was dupe was leaked to the public called the Drop the server, which caused another rush of exploration portals around spawn but without the end portal blocks from a backdoor still in their ender placed around the overworld. He would travel he would locate close to player bases, some Jack would dupe materials with another player find a location in the End to build Space single End gateway, and a few members would monaxide, accidentally used a hacked client releasing the coordinates to the base. Only group quickly relocated about a kilometer built around the end of 2016, like Endlosung, Torogadude's Death Star Soup Bowl. By the middle of 2017, a player named Barrendome his lag machine deleted by Hausemaster, a to become the first player to see the world hack, he went on a trip that lasted an entire the -Z End world border, and the next day, and built a base - Armorland. This was eventually were disabled due to this hack as it was lagging Krobar01 started building a base known as As months passed, Space Valkyria 3's construction making Jack take a break for a few months returned and was informed by Offtopia that of Space Valkyria 3's construction and was was already a well-known exploit, so Jack construction didn't take as long as the Jack perfected his method and added many more The release of the chunk dupe also helped construction of the rings. The plan was to By early 2018, the End spawn had changed compared Fuzzypuffball was gone and was replaced by island was still intact, but lava casts surrounded an ice highway created by 1i_. Players would who made a Black Freighter. Another base near Followers, at the exact coordinates of the Offtopia and Llane would create a base in get shulkers, while Offtopia moved some shulkers location. Sometime in 2018, Endcursion went public due went back to have a look as he got someone still there. Since there were no tourists start building there again. He made many things etc. Until January 2019, Hausemaster announced would be updating to 1.13 soon, and end portals this time, like P529. By this point, Nerds which allowed them to ask 2b2t, &quot;Is the block and get an immediate yes or no answer. On May 9th, 2019, while Jack was waiting in and was building and placing blocks on the iTristan online, and in chat, it showed Tristan module. It wasn't unusual, but Jack felt was immediately out of place, but there was thought maybe this was AlphaComputer trolling he saw Nerds Inc. members placing TNT. Jack and gear for combat, but it was useless. It On August 14th, 2019, elytra were re-enabled. replaced with a circular obsidian platform, Fr1kin released his world download of Space many players travel to see the ruins in person. Out of curiosity, Jack checked on the original untouched. Jacked decided to return to work everything from scratch and brought a donkey to dupe and resupply materials. Many months intact. Jack took a break and joined Offtopia this time, the site already had a few structures, Eventually, Jack returned to Space Valkyria name this location Endtopia. On December 8th, 2019, the players Gsmack, giant water cube over End spawn. They would the bedrock floor to help assist in the process. used their controversial overworld water cube making chunk bans to prevent enemies from use an exploit to place unbreakable end crystals so anyone who walked into a portal would fall restarting the server and deleting the unbreakable water cube at Y level 109, and 5 days later, layers of water in one day and, in total, Not soon after, a player named TheTroll2001 items. It worked by pushing a donkey with half a heart into an end portal, making it twice as it entered the End, doubling a player's would be griefed. By the middle of 2020, there the players at Endtopia too afraid to build kept finding excuses not to do much of anything to move to Endtopia to start constructing In May 2020, a Turkish Twitch streamer was of Space Valkyria 3 that was griefed. At some and found himself at the original intact Space others found it, which eventually happened. 3, at least on 2b2t.[c] Shortly after it was Space Valkyria 4 with a couple of friends, abandoned not soon after. By late 2020, End spawn was still covered this time were Endromeda, created by SkullerG, Another end base made by H4A had many signs the players Goujon and Duke_Arktouros would successful, and many players visited, but Amin0Acid attempted to go the -X world border 13 million blocks out, so he created a milestone By September 4th, 2021, Krobar had built a room was filled with decorations. Eventually, it using a travel exploit while live-streaming its destruction on December 21st, 2021. Around much time in the End, testing and exploring. were with players from the Spawn Builders players with boats using the gateways. To and piloted a boat into it. The boat would a second, during which time the player being back to the starting location of the teleporting On March 22nd, 2022, Harrisssonn started his exact location as Armorland. He finally reached When he arrived, he noticed Armorland was he founded Corner Base and teleported many Ancients," were teleported out here to find of r/place, but on 2b2t called 'Our/Place.' As more players were teleported, a base began including smz19, P529, Joey_Coconut, Negative_Entropy, These players were from the Ancients, Astral Association. This base didn't have a name occurred here, and even I was teleported in of the Corner Base resulted in groups like End to prevent teleportation to the base. crystal aura, conducted mainly through maksitaxi's soon after, Corner Base was griefed. By November 2022, Krobar started building a black hole surrounded by a ring with buildings 2023. By the end of January, a project was water cube entirely, and his friends joined January 30th, and with sponges and flying cumerman, they could accomplish this rather of the water cube all by himself. Pockyboi by stash hunting. It wasn't all smooth, though, as many PvPers killing members that were draining 0,0. So End's spawn platform that killed players from griefers. Dextras and elusour broke all in the End. PolarBigBob, scoobystain, 1ahr, 15th, 2023, the project was completed. After the End water cube's drainage, a player it out. He started flying in the -X region reason, he decided to start going diagonal Suddenly, he got hit with beacon effects, Today, the End is still very vacant, but who rise of discussion of the End, more players and even future projects will emerge.