The clear autumn sky feels nice :) I came to a gift wrapping specialty store in Shirokanedai that sells items imported from Europe. We have finally decided on the wrapping paper for the presents for the viewers. (Sorry for keeping you waiting for so long... ) Next, I went to the select shop next door. Then I came to the restaurant on the third floor. The inside of the restaurant is stylish, but the atmosphere on the terrace, which can be seen from the window, is especially nice. This is the very popular &quot;Peanut Cream Puff&quot; :) The food here is delicious, but I especially like cream puffs, so I stop by here every now and then when I feel like eating cream puffs. There's plenty of crunchy cookie puffs inside. Contains peanut cream. The cream is very thick, but it melts in your mouth smoothly and so yummy. I felt so good because I found some nice wrapping paper :) Anyway, the sky is really beautiful today. After leaving the shop, I walked for about 20 minutes to Ebisu Station. I was soothed by the beautiful sunlight filtering through the leaves and the sound of water :) After arriving at Yoyogi Koen Station and finishing some errands, I happened to come across a vintage shop that I had been interested in for some time. It was a sudden visit, but the friendly and nice owner helped me take photos :) The store is full of wonderful, one-of-a-kind products that show the owner's passion. I get very excited when I see each piece of clothing hanging differently:) A tailored jacket with a nice pale color. The denim jacket with the corduroy collar is also cute :) This jacket also has a beautiful silhouette. Shirts with unique patterns like this are unique to vintage. It looks like it would go well with either beige slacks or black slacks. This store had everything from manly items to feminine items. This blouse is also lovely :) I'm always interested in leather jackets and coats in the fall. It looks great with gray slacks :) Lastly, I tried on the items I was interested in. What do you think of this jacket? It's not as feminine as I expected, so I think it can be worn casually :) The shop owner introduced me to a lot of wonderful clothes :) I also like the styling of denim and denim. Suede fabric bag It was also cute :) I had a lot of fun talking with the staff at the shop. There were lots of nice clothes and the atmosphere was great. I discovered another wonderful shop. Thank you for your time :) Hello everyone! I would now like to open my recent purchases and items that have arrived. I purchased a tailored jacket from Griffith Vintage. It has a gorgeous pattern, but I like the gentle colors :) I thought this jacket would be difficult to style, but it would look good if you matched it with the same color. Let's try it on right away :) It's great to wear casually with slacks or denim :) Also, try wearing the knit over your shoulder :) You can also wrap it diagonally! I received clothes from &quot;Sipmple Retro&quot;, which is inspired by vintage style and has unique designs. I still love the jackets and pants from this store, but this year they came in different colors, so I chose them. I loved it :) And this is a blouse that is filled with the charm of the brand. If you look closely, there is a lace rose on the chest... :) I was really looking forward to wearing this setup :) I also like the vest style :) I really liked the beautiful color and silhouette. I feel like roses are blooming in my heart :) The blouse is very soft and comfortable to wear. It's lovely that you can feel the femininity even in the mannish style. There is also a special code for 10% off, so please check it out if you are interested :) I have received items selected from &quot;Grown10&quot;, a brand from Los Angeles, &quot;JW PEI&quot;:) Made of vegan leather, This brand creates fashionable items that accent any style while being environmentally friendly. Wow, such a nice deep color...! It's an autumnal color between brown and burgundy. You can feel the elegant atmosphere from the gold decorations:) JW PEI is loved by foreign celebrities and is so popular that it can often be seen at fashion weeks:) Wow, this is a wonderful color too! This bag is available in five colors, and I chose claret.Claret is the color of red wine produced in the Bordeaux region of southwestern France. A great item for fall :) The wine color bag looks great with the brown suit :) These mules are not only stylish, but also very comfortable. There is a discount code, so if you are interested, please check it out :) I bought new cosmetics for the fall and winter &quot;JP24grown&quot;. I knew about SNIDEL's clothes, but I didn't know much about their cosmetics. I happened to see it in a store and I really liked the color, so I bought it :) Wow... it's beautiful... the soft and delicate powder gives your skin a glow and clarity! It's a nice color after all. I also purchased the brown beige lipstick. It applies very smoothly and has a translucent color, so just by applying this, you can create a natural fall-like makeup :) When you apply it layered, the color deepens and looks nice :) It's fun to wear makeup in autumn. I bought a new ring. This is my first time wearing a ring with this silhouette. It stands out because of its unique shape, but the ring itself is delicate, so I like it because it gives it an elegant feel :) The other day, I was invited to an exhibition by my favorite hat brand, &quot;arth,&quot; and the hat I ordered arrived. This cap is made using luxurious 100% Italian cashmere, and even the lining is so lovely ! And the belt is made of leather. I was attracted to the attention to detail. Does it suit you? :) Caps tend to give a casual look, but this one is made of cashmere material, so it has an elegance that rivals a suit. The logo looks casual and cute :) Now that autumn has arrived, you can often see deep red &quot;Akiei apples&quot; in stores. I would like to bake an apple galette again this year :) This time I used the recipe from &quot;Pastry Living with Aya&quot; as a reference. I don't have a food processor, so I use a Vitamix instead. Add strong flour, chilled butter, granulated sugar, and salt. I couldn't mix it as well as I wanted with the Vitamix, and the dough became loose While the pie dough is resting, make the apple filling. Mmm, sweet and delicious :) Heat granulated sugar to make caramel. When it turns golden brown, add the butter. Then add the apples. Add brown sugar, cinnamon, salt, and cornstarch. At the end, add cream, rum and lemon juice. Mmm, sweet and nice scent! Chill in the refrigerator until room temperature. It's snack time for the dogs :) They always want to eat each other's treats (More treats please!) Cut the apple into the desired thickness. Roll out the puff pastry and top with the filling and apples. I thought a lot about how to decorate the apples:) The look of the galette changes depending on the arrangement, so it's fun too:) This time, I failed with the puff pastry I'll use this reflection next time :) Finally, brush with melted butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar. Bake at 220 for 10 minutes and at 190 for 35 minutes. I hope I can make a delicious galette :) I would like to drink tea with the galette. Today, I chose black tea that I bought in Paris. The combination of apple, cinnamon, and chamomile creates a wonderful, soothing taste with just the right amount of sweetness. The galette is baked! It smells so good Finish with apricot jam. There are some lovely customers at this cafe today as well. :) let's eat! After all, I have to serve the galette with ice cream :) How does it taste...? My mother said it was delicious, so I was relieved :) I can't get enough of the sweet and sour filling and crunchy apples...! So delicious: ) It's nice to go out, but it's best to stay at home together :) We had a peaceful time feeling like autumn :) &quot;BANK&quot; is a food complex shop in Nihonbashi that is currently trending . &quot;I came here. It has a very nice atmosphere from the entrance. This former bank building now houses a bakery, bistro, cafe, and interior design shop. There are lots of delicious-looking breads in front of you...! The croissants made with homemade fermented butter are said to be especially popular :) The shop cards are in the shape of banknotes, which is very unique and nice. . On weekdays, you can eat the bread you buy here at the cafe in the basement. (One drink only) The basement floor had fashionable items such as clothes and tableware. Then, when I went to the back, there was a wonderful floral design shop. Surrounded by flowers hanging on the walls and ceiling, just looking at them makes you feel good :) Bouquets are also available, but dried flowers can be purchased individually. There were also cute candles in the shape of birds :) It was a very nice shop. The cafe was popular and full for a while, but by chance there was a seat available, so we decided to have tea. I ordered the coffee jelly float from the limited time menu. The refreshing sweetness of the gelato and the bitterness of the jelly are delicious:) At the end, the staff sprayed us with rum. It has an elegant taste that melts smoothly in your mouth and has a faint rum scent. The pudding has a strong egg flavor and is firm and chewy, which is what I like:) It seems that the peak time has passed and the atmosphere in the store has calmed down a bit. A little dim light is good. We had a great time at a cafe that felt like a secret base. The other day, I was finally able to go and pick out wrapping paper for a viewer present. Since it's a special present, I want to be very particular about the wrapping :) I'm sorry that it took so much time after I told you about the project in the spring I had a lot of schedule conflicts, It's my first time planning a giveaway, so I wanted to do it when things calm down To wrap the eco bags, I'll use the paper I bought at Melody's Graphics during my trip to Paris:) The Toile de Jouy pattern is really nice, isn't it? ! I hope the person who receives this will be happy... With that in mind, I wrap it carefully :) The ribbon will be yellow to match the pattern of the Eiffel Tower. It's completed What do you think? This is just my preference, but I hope you like it :) Thank you for always watching my videos. I'm so grateful that you chose this video out of all the others :) And I'm so happy that I was able to meet you through the video! This time, I will only be able to send gifts to 7 people, but I hope to be able to repay my gratitude in some other way. (The latest information on the gift campaign is listed in the summary section. Please wait for a while.) Today was my dog's birthday, so I made him a birthday cake Happy birthday! How are you feeling now? :) .... Now the party begins :) Happy Birthday! ! The pumpkin cake was a big hit:) Thank you for being a part of our family:) Stay healthy and enjoy life together! Thank you for watching! I hope to see you again :) And hope you have a good day!