Mario Maker degenerates, welcome. This is a presentation of the Longest Passcode a level I made that requires a code 1880 binary The code is at the end, and timestamps are Though there's nothing of value in this it's a complete waste of time, pointing to the end of the video. PREVIOUSLY, ON THIS PARTICULAR WASTE OF TIME Our unfortunate chapter in human history opens &lt;Cyber Security 101: Brute Force&gt;. This misappropriation of level-building materials the player... eight digit numbers. To be clear, there are no hints, it's just a test whether you know the code. To enter the code, the player travels along triggering a number of POW blocks in each Bullet blasters of different heights sit on and when brought to an exact level, block end of the level. If, and only if, all the blasters were brought these blocks create a ledge for a Bob-omb, Of course, I know what you're thinking: is worse odds than winning the lottery, If someone won this lottery, they might Do you really want people to have fun when Panga's second level rectifies this issue. In &lt;Cyber Security &gt;2&lt;01: Brute Force&gt;, the bullet blasters are dropped onto a stack In this level, the height of the bullet blasters with this mushroom-shaped scanning device, only if the tops of all bullet blasters are If the mushroom-shaped scanning device reaches the scan is successful and a key is collected. If it does not, you die. Remember this part, we're going to innovate. This much larger level has space to encode but &lt;904 trevigintillion&gt;. More precisely, this number is &lt;8^83 power&gt;, A programmer might say instead that there since each base-8 digit is equivalent to three This is already a comparable state space to Over on Reddit, the mysteriously named anonym05frog I quote, but that had 8^83 power, or 940 trevigintillion Mine has 10^88, or 10 octovigintillion possible "To put that that into perspective, or 11,054,295,750,520.9 times more to be exact." Au contraire, anonym05frog, that is almost However, this *is* what caught my eye, and I see a pointless number going up, and I think, was a larger number instead? I realize a claim like that is liable to alienate video like this, unlike these previous two levels, So, The Longest Passcode Level possibilities. 1880 bits of security. The utter pinnacle of poor life choices. How did I do it? Well, it's actually surprisingly simple Consider these two brick blocks. They look pretty similar, do they not? Yet as you all know this illusion can be quickly And yes, if he were punching the bricks not helmets. I rest my case. By outfitting our crafty plumber with such of the spiky variety, is which, To use these blocks to encode a password, The first property is that only standard blocks when a P-switch is activated. The second property is that after being destroyed, but blocks containing vines will respawn Well done Mario. To show how to turn these insights into a let's enlist our trusty Toadette to walk First, Toadette carefully destroys Having entered the passcode, she drops down to start the check. At this point, two things are activated. To Toadette's right, allowing the green door to be used for later. Above Toadette, falls down, and travels along the semisolid, Because only the coin blocks remain, the end, time This Buzzy Beetle in turn pushes another see-saw, We then crush the Bob-Omb, We destroy the Bob-Omb with a snake block a bullet blaster to avoid giving out any light either of which could allow a careful player At this point Toadette can use the door, When Toadette reenters the room, are miraculously repaired. This time, over the top of the brick blocks, As before, this moves the see-saw out of the and the Buzzy Beetle raised the Bob-Omb. This time, though, a key-holding Piranha Plant Previously the Piranha Plant was spawn-blocked, its place was destroyed. So this time when Toadette crushes the Bob-Omb, and retrieve the key. Marvelously done, Toadette. It may help to see the attempts of two less Our first, Mario, is too lazy to destroy any He immediately jumps down to activate the but the mushroom-shaped scanning device gets and cannot reach the see-saw. The Buzzy Beetle is then unable to pass, and leaving it to explode uselessly, only destroying On the upside, since none of the standard brick blocks were but since the keyholding Piranha Plant is Mario receives no key, Our second failure correctly decides to destroy but recklessly destroys some coin blocks in His first pass through the level is successful; to the end, and the keyholding Piranha Plant is liberated. But when Luigi travels through the door for Oh no! The mushroom-shaped scanning device falls where a coin block had been destroyed! Once again, the Buzzy Beetle gets stuck, the Piranha Plant Despite his early success, our green suited just doesn't have what it takes to complete A few more considerations were required for In it, a large Monty Mole is released when is activated, until the scan ends. When the P-switch is not activated, the Monty at the start of the level instead. The final snake block is a slow snake block, and an indication is given whenever a snake because falling off one sucks. At the end of the track, that's destroyed when the P-switch ends, if the mushroom-shaped scanning device is The ON/OFF block is used through this mechanism, preventing misuse. Here's a bird's eye view of the whole Many of you might notice an issue with this only the bottom four rows actually have any Now before you all get up in arms at how there actually 752 bits of security here, The *level* supports all 1880 bits of security, it's probably possible to enter all 1880 Alas, *I* am only human, In fact, entering a mere four rows of binary already required me to write a program for Let's take a look. Though I'll spare you the details about Just take a moment to appreciate that this and that you can't make a single mistake since every mistake is irreversible. With that said...