&gt;&gt; Kenneth Nyirady: Or evening, since we've and welcome to the I am Kenneth Nyirady, Head of the European Reading We're pleased that you can join Andrew Nagorski discuss The Year Germany Lost the War.&quot; My colleague, Grant Harris, will serve as session moderator. There'll be time after and answers, and that will be Very briefly, let me say of the largest collections and about the countries of including publications The European collections are language, literature, whether in English or You may want to pick up and bookmarks which are that describe our Some of you may not of Congress reading rooms and we encourage you to come If you haven't seen our of the room, please take a It concerns publications by and and emigrate groups in London a topic that Mr. Nagorski Just necessary, please and other electronic devices And also, be aware that for future Library When we have the Question and that if you ask a to be part of the webcast. We hope that you enjoy this to explore the library's Now, please help me welcome both and the Chief of the European [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Well, let about Andrew Nagorski. I could read a lot but I need to keep it short. So, Andrew Nagorski is an who spent more than as a foreign correspondent He served as Foreign Bohn, Rome, Warsaw, He is a member of the and has published several times in its prestigious Mr. Nagorski has written relating to Germany, Poland, He has written most Hitler, and World War II. His newest book, &quot;1941: The has received favorable reviews. One reviewer has said this, of historical sources, and his and how decisions are he is able to make that 1941 was a turning point.&quot; So, now, I turn to you finally and I've got a number The book is all about to set the stage for us. What happened before that? Germany was on the march, Set the stage for us. What happened before then? &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: I would the end of 1940 and you've gone through this and his Germany, has been underestimated First, Hitler himself when he was rising to power, That's a longer topic about -- but people, whether it German politicians, even some &quot;This man can't be He cannot become the leader he's somebody who we and will not do these crazy to do.&quot; But then, he takes power as has embarked on this good on -- he's not only consolidated and eliminated any potential like the attacks on but he has begun a course which with just about everybody else. And that of course means, he he takes over Austria. He challenges Britain and and the famous appeasement and And then, of course, September which is the beginning And he's -- there's a feeling -- not just in the West, within the German army, and so forth, who are &quot;[Inaudible] Hitler, be careful, And Germany doesn't -- isn't and doesn't have the And yet, every time that everybody else retreats. So, he takes over Poland to do that, he makes with the Soviet Union, So, that neutralizes Russia. In fact, it more than It -- the Soviet Union, becomes a major supplier of So, he's got them The U.S. is still out It is -- there's a lot of There is Roosevelt is but he's not about to And then, he turns on the west. He attacks Norway, Denmark, and ultimately France, which is of course the real And everything seems And that's by the they have not -- the German was unable to knock out the of Britain, but they're bombing Britain is under attack, and who had thought, &quot;This We're taking on all these &quot;This man is -- has an Maybe we were all and Germany is going &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Thank One of the things I like about into the minds of many You really tell a lot. And so, you actually start You start with a diary who is the Soviet So, what did he write in his &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Maisky's He'd been in Britain since I think '33 or so. He was very friendly with many but he was of course, And there is this odd thing to realize Germany is and he writes in his diary &quot;Forty-one is going to be the in order to win this war, has to He's assuming the U.S. is going of Britain, which means the he said, &quot;And Britain will begin to really gyn [assumed Once the Anglo-Saxon countries then in a prolonged war, Germany and which is by the way, what some of the German planners So, he says, &quot;Hitler to win this war quickly.&quot; But what does Maisky speculate? He says, &quot;Okay, now Hitler's to make sure Britain and that's going to be that that he was -- German bombers but they had not and mount an amphibious Of course, looming in the background is which Maisky does &quot;Will Hitler honor And what will happen But that goes to show that who was quite a well but even in his own to question Stalin's judgement, to honor this pact, at least to rebuild after They had fought the war in There'd been -- Stalin had And so, he -- Maisky doesn't So, he's right about 1941 He's wrong about why it's &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: You've the countries around it, several on this same subject of And I appreciate that. I like that a lot. Did you learn anything new, or was this just all things you already had leftover or were there some surprises, &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: There when you do more research. One, before I start with Germany this book, since it of course is Churchill, and then relationship, which is the other there's a reason of the book you've got Hitler, One of the things that struck who of course, he became in May when France And as many of you know of in what was considered He was in a bit of -- he was seen as someone who's but the one thing he of Hitler and the Nazis. And as a result, when the collapsed, they turned Now, we all know who makes the famous speech on the beaches and We will never surrender.&quot; But one of the things I've and one of these this time of his bodyguard, On May the 10th of 1940, when he knows he's going to be He comes out and he talks to &quot;Do you know why I was And his bodyguard I wish you best. I wish that it happened And at that moment, Churchill and he says, &quot;I do too. I hope it's not too late.&quot; That's a different Churchill which is always convinced, We're going to win.&quot; There were these Another example from of Churchill's most A conservative MP, Harold about the same time, while he's &quot;Why Britain will and we have to be victorious,&quot; there's a letter from him to his well-known writer at &quot;I'm glad we have Cyanide pills. He says, &quot;If the Germans take what he called, &quot;an honorable to be - be tortured And yes, this is -- and that side of that the sense that you know, things could have gone either And then, from previous work, I mean the extent to which of collapsing, I to interview someone whose who was one of the And his son in the 30's and was brought in by his father that maintained that Lenin mummy helped evacuate the body of if Hitler takes Moscow, and of that is just overwhelming. So, I mean, these are you know the broad but when you learn those kinds from the people themselves some of whom were still around it's just fascinating. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Let me ask you, just maybe and Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Here we have Churchill who desperately needs the and yet, Roosevelt is dealing others who are not at So, tell us something about how and Roosevelt developed &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. And it's interesting, Churchill in person once at that either right during World of World War I, when Churchill in charge of the Royal FDR was the Secretary of they had sort of I think he was [inaudible] of the Navy then. And he went on a -- FDR of delegation and he where they -- he met Churchill. Years later, Churchill He didn't even remember which did not please FDR. And there was a bit, this kind of initial FDR tended to see Churchill who supported for and was not very sympathetic to Indian independence And Churchill saw Roosevelt he needed him, as you said, but of public opinion in the U.S. The sense of Americans late in the war, and that this would sort They wouldn't have and now pressure And so, Churchill was a but the two men develop a at a distance at first, Roosevelt detected early, even before Churchill that he was the one rise to the top to And so, he initiated a and reminded him, &quot;We were both and he signed his no, Churchill signed &quot;For a you know, naval person.&quot; And you know, they'd be -- And interestingly enough, Churchill's [inaudible] to me directly by In other words, &quot;You can bypass He didn't quite say that, And who was the ambassador Joseph Kennedy. Joseph Kennedy was -- and was very anti-British. And was telling Washington, They're not going to hold out. Everyone's predicting after France fell, So, it's not even worth And Churchill knew that, by Kennedy's presence. And '41 eventually, he -- you know, withdrawn by a much more pro-British But so, they developed this And throughout the war, there like 900, letters, extensive and Roosevelt sends various others to meet with Churchill. And by proxy, and then in when they signed the Atlantic and then in trips to Washington, a magnificent relationship, and with the Battle over Because Churchill says to we appreciate the help We're paying for it now. We're not going to for it much longer, And that's when the genesis &quot;We'll give you the stuff now. You'll pay us somehow later.&quot; And Roosevelt, to his credit, in terms Americans And he said, in one side chats, as he was trying to to Congress in the &quot;Imagine that your And he comes running 'Let me grab your garden you know, try to put out this at that point, you tell and try to put out the fire.' You don't say, 'Oh, by the way, Pay me the $15.00 the way they played it Churchill realized -- he was to push Roosevelt for more and And he said -- he kept Roosevelt, only Congress in the United States. Roosevelt is a very He doesn't want to appear to be to help us, so we can't But just one other thing because there's so much to tell, 1941 ends December and Churchill tells Roosevelt I hope you don't mind, that we'll be on the same side.&quot; And Roosevelt says, he and Roosevelt -- and Churchill in December after Pearl Harbor, so that they can plan And they had met, as I say, on of Canada before, but here that persona rapport and to the White House to on the floor with the -- So, they're on the same floor. And Roosevelt of he's in his wheelchair. Roosevelt spends a lot and in the bathtub as he had -- was want to do, dictating &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Churchill. &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: -I Yes. So, they spent in each other's bedrooms and And at one point, Churchill is or a letter or a a male secretary I should he gets up out of the bath, puts and walks into his bedroom And as he's dictating, that big at a certain moment, and at into the room on his wheelchair. And without missing a beat, Mr. President, I have So, they developed a &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: You know, a lot of books about and the Soviet Union, they leave in between called Poland, that are happening there. And they're stage the I'd like you to go because your book does goes &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: maybe I'd be less inclined to my own father fought in and was part [inaudible]. So, his story, my in the Polish government So, this story feels and of course what happened And I think you can't understand between Stalin and Hitler without the origins of the of that Nazi/Soviet that Hitler would invade from and 17 days later on or the Red Army invaded They divided up Poland. That was the beginning and the Soviets also of the Baltic States So, Poland had a and it was also what and the French had pledged to when the case if Hitler invaded Poland. And Hitler believed, I think, that they really didn't He really was -- he was sitting his Foreign Minister and the French gave an ultimatum or we're going to go to war.&quot; He was expecting them to when he was told he was quite taken aback, that declaration of war didn't It wasn't as if they in to fight the Germans So, Poland has a central role. It has a central role as for Hitler's armies because that's the one about a -- about a month. It doesn't sound like a lot who had capitulated there was intense fighting. It became the testing ground -- the first testing like what were called the special killing squads that in those -- in the beginning, nobility, religious leaders. It wasn't only focused on by the time it gets it's focused primarily on Jews. Of course Auschwitz territory annexed from for Polish political prisoners. Then for [inaudible] for Soviet into a central part of the So, Poland is a central part. And just one small In -- at a certain point, when I for Moscow, I went into [foreign name] which is of Moscow where one of the biggest battles And I went there with a group These young, Russian searching for remains of Soviet that was -- all these in these woods that had been where literally hundreds of Soviet troops were surrounded And we went through there and pieces of uniform, they would find human remains. And at one point, one of and he's holding He says to me, &quot;These are And I say -- &quot;You'll You'll appreciate this.&quot; And he knew my Polish I said, &quot;Well, why are He said, &quot;Think about it. You know, when Germany and Soviet Union from Poland had a fairly They grabbed every bit of -- from their arsenal that they and in those first [inaudible] Germany they were maybe each -- either side could have against each other.&quot; You know, it's just again, one &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: You who was Hitler's Deputy and a rather bizarre Rudolf Hess decides he's going into a plane without and flying into Great &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Rudolf Hess had been one He was with Hitler in the 1923, '24, after the when Hitler had tried to but he had sort of -- he but he kind -- he was a -- I mean, not that many Nazis but he was more stranger and he felt kind And one of the things Hitler of this, Albert Speer talked Hitler had expressed the to make a deal with Britain. Let us control Europe, which was the [foreign name], and of course then But while the Britain and they have the navy for it. So, we should be able And he talked about this, even after these two Even when his air force and bombing London and And Hess got it in his as far as I can see, I &quot;I can pull off this great negotiate something, he knew there's no way as a partner because So, I'll negotiate with which he considered pro-fascist. And there were indeed a but and he just got in parachuted out in Scotland, and from somebody up in Scotland he seems to be really that and he said, &quot;and what And of course, Hitler He was convinced that the propaganda hay out of this, &quot;Let's just imprison him, he's a potential war criminal.&quot; In fact, he was later tried to life imprisonment, and was prisoner, until he hanged in Spandau Prison in Berlin, and he was already I think to hang himself, four country guards So, but it's one of these it probably didn't mean showed how much this idea, this that we can find some to basically sell Sell Churchill and his cronies as kind of subservient and get &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Let me ask The American journalists in Great Britain at that time. There are quite a number &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: to their American One of them was named I choose her because and just tell us a little and what she was able to do. &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: fascinating character. She had been spent -- of the first real celebrity in the 20s, and the early 30s. She had spent time in She had been, by the married to Sinclair Lewis, and in 1931 when she interviewed to -- it looked like he had and it looked like he He arranged it -- she arranges and then she does a quick book &quot;I thought I was going to meet but within 50 seconds, I such a bizarre man with these which are characteristics of But to her credit, once Hitler to Germany, she's really on the and particularly American in power in Germany is a threat, and to Europe, but And she gets on this she actually aside -- she's by then. She's syndicated all She becomes a real passing the Land She even writes the introduction in Washington, by the U.S. by the major figures in the the Secretary of War, and so forth, why we And then she goes to Britain, She meets everybody. Churchill, and company, and She also broadcasts from the but she makes a special to Germany, in German. She did speak German. She had learned German in her &quot;I love the German people. I hate your regime. I want your country because it deserves So, it's an interesting case put all notion of journalistic and said, you know, &quot;This is and I am going to do everything &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Let's Stalin was getting that Germany was And just didn't want &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Right. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: So, and the days right &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Right. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: -the &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Well, at these two dictators, and as if -- you know, they had Of course they share this to kill, terrorize, on a scale that was almost And they were at the pinnacle it was almost like -- it's almost like they're &quot;Who Could be the Because here's Stalin, he's Hitler's not going to observe He's getting ready to but Stalin wasn't He knew his army And he believed genuinely that he could maintain this at least for another year or so. And so, he doesn't want And anybody who delivers So, even on the eve when there are 3 million on the Soviet border, you'd think that's a pretty to happen, and a couple over to the Soviet side, and about to invade go all What's Stalin's reaction? Execute those guys. It must be disinformation. In his mind, if everybody's the western powers, it's obviously a plot. I'm being misled. And they want to make me -- force us into this to be in this conflict. So, he is blind to that the Germans initial offensive, and his troops are not While Hitler on the other about defeating the Soviet in the end of June of '41 which to the date after and that did not And yet, he sends in his because he's convinced They'll win by then. So, both create -- have but Stalin's paranoia when finally, the he retreats to his and [foreign name] Bureau &quot;You've got to make You've got to do something.&quot; And finally, they're out of the [foreign name]. Finally, they march and there's Stalin sitting And he said, &quot;Why are you here?&quot; And at that point, one of the [inaudible] in his recollection he thought that we were And in fact they said, to organize an emergency and you'll be the head.&quot; And then Stalin realizes, But it's -- and by the way, even on the radio, to to buttress morale and so forth. He says, &quot;No, I'm Let Molotov, the So, he doesn't really take but it's again, shows you how &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: We'll move the last month of the year. And there were a There's December 7, 1941, about that, and then we'll move in Moscow, Stalin and the But we'll start with December 7. &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Well, there's this whole question, especially among and by many U.S. officials to the cause and feel the U.S. When is it finally And many people are kind of -- feel that Roosevelt can't quite Then Japanese hit Pearl Well, first of all, remember and Roosevelt convenes Congress of War on December 8th, but against Japan, not Germany. So, that's -- people And the immediate but Churchill felt at this that you know, first and Italy were -- did have what so they were supposed although their alliance But Roosevelt does not ask against Germany, and in Three days later, he declares And it gets basically So, he doesn't -- &quot;I want a war with Hitler.&quot; Now, Hitler's reaction on Pearl Harbor is exactly -- it's of a piece of everything Remember, when he -- he had always envisioned and taking over the east, but he So, then he attacked Britain. Thought he would make -- have Britain capitulate as the to oppose his ambitions, and over the Soviet Union. Britain does not capitulate. Churchill makes his stand. The air force, the Royal with a lot of help from and Commonwealth pilots, So, Hitler's next step, he's Something didn't work. First, he was an When things worked, You took Austria. Then you take Czechoslovakia. Then you attack Poland. When things didn't work, So, when Britain failed to now we'll attack and then the Soviet and then Britain and the U.S. won't So, when none of that now Japan's in the war, we'll and Japan in the war is Why? Because Japan ostensibly, according to Hitler. And that it will tie down and the U.S. will no longer of helping with this and the Soviet Union, under Lend Lease as well. So, he had these -- that the next escalation to be the one that But like his planners eventually if you have the odds don't look too good. By the end of '41, and this is lost the war, Germany is up Britain, which was the only Then the Soviet Union, Together, those countries had seven times the territory, control of much of and as one of the German &quot;If you declare war it usually doesn't &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Let me ask In Moscow, Stalin had met there with the British Foreign and Stalin handed to for post-war territories And of course, it had -- Stalin other areas, going &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: and the political control. Yes. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Yes, yes. Yes. So, we see what It happened. What should have happened? What could have made &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: It's very that -- Eden's trip in December, as soon as Germany even when it looked like Stalin was insisting where he would retain in that Nazi/Soviet pact. That means, eastern Poland, And I think -- there and I think a strong there were some people people like George [inaudible] Lord Ismay who was the Chief that Churchill and Roosevelt stand against Stalin, not at a time when his own survival to institute -- basically of a pact with Hitler. But remember one thing, the main Churchill and Roosevelt they were worried that Stalin -- that Hitler/Stalin alliance and even more -- even closer. And by the way, Stalin at one told his daughter, something to the effect and I had stayed together, we There was sort of, they hated each other but they also admired terror, and so forth. And the fact that Stalin was always in the minds of and there was a fear, even maybe that he might do so again with Churchill and Roosevelt. And he used -- manipulated that And he outmaneuvered them Roosevelt I think was He really believed his we'll introduce a and other countries the government.&quot; Churchill knew that was not when in July of 1941, he really pressured the Polish to make a deal with the Russians since they were ostensibly And he said, &quot;It was my to advise the Poles to And he knew what that meant. But I think there were ways in which we could have and had been more calculating. But the combination of Roosevelt he didn't want any preconditions And Churchill, just His whole idea was, you know, but we need the Soviets.&quot; You know, he made when his aid told After the Germans invaded and of Commons and declare his with the Soviet Union, he said, that someone who has always been &quot;Well, if Hitler invaded Hell, for the devil the next day And you know, you make the but we could have played &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Yes. Thank you for that. I'd like to have some I don't know where the man is coming with a microphone. So, if you have a raise your hand, and -- &gt;&gt; Hi. How credible was of Windsor might have on the British throne? &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. Well, I think that the and you know, the Duke of with his American wife, and all of fantasies of some that the British might who they hated, and there In fact, when Rudolf Hess he asked to see some -- a I forget which -- whether someone fairly high up, who had the Berlin Olympics, in '36, so, he had met him The Brit hadn't even -- didn't but he thought, &quot;Well, we'll and they'll take So, it helped stoke and kept the idea alive that with these -- this part of the British leadership And there was -- there were also as some of you I'm sure have Unity Mitford, who to Germany and became and he actually was taking and listening -- and he was listening to and what -- and how eagerly &gt;&gt; Well, thank you very much for And it seems to me that you many years on this topic. And I was wondering what some I think you mentioned that it was the interviews with people before they passed on the scene -- away But if you began your I was wondering whether into the Soviet archives &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. I think, yes. I mean as a journalist of course, I love interviews. I love also especially with original documents and luckily, in some case -- even before I knew I sometimes I interviewed and sometimes out of personal to gather a great And even, by the way, even I started this book, I had but I still found some people -- like I found a group of Red who were still -- who and even a German soldier I found in -- living a woman who when I interviewed who had been a secretary the Polish Prime Minister. She -- and when I -- by the I wanted to make frankly, I didn't know around to get her a copy, and I and she said, &quot;Yes, she'd She's 106.&quot; So, that -- but I mean of and from the archives, I did not spend time in the -- so much time in the archives that takes an incredible but when I was started -- that the German invasion which I made a -- did a of it earlier, I got to know the editor of the who was getting the newly And he was printing up very limited circulation, and as it was being released. So, it was technically but you had to really know where I got a lot of documents that of course, the forerunner gathered up from the and diaries from German So, you often had the accounts up until the day they died. You also had of course who were alarmed to see -- be by some Soviet citizens, and [foreign name] but even Russia itself, &quot;Hey, Maybe they'll get rid and things will get better.&quot; It wasn't because they knew and the Nazis, they just be worse or more terrifying And so, I was able those were highly classified. I was able to get some of those. &gt;&gt; You alluded to this in your if you could explain this more. By the end of the year, the Germans had met in the Battle of Britain. Things weren't going well. &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. &gt;&gt; They're meeting resistance &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: a first counter offense &gt;&gt; Things are not going well. So, why would they declare &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Yes. Well, I mean that question a lot of things Hitler did that But within his own internal &quot;If we have Japan,&quot; he convinced down the United States in the about all these supplies especially, and to Russia. At first, he had totally and industrial capacity. He said, &quot;Oh, the U.S. to rearm till 1945.&quot; Then, his planners kept the U.S. can really get going So, he thought, &quot;Well, then it He tried to see that But there were so many things. I mean, the other thing that of view, morality aside, why I think it's the year when the post-war peace of the Cold War come into when the Holocaust is There had been killing in Poland and other But the really mass with these special killing and just it was described the Holocaust of the bullets of and then only later, converting to gas chambers, And there's a diary entry -- from one of the German generals, in charge of the army group through Moscow, and was uniforms, ammunition, fuel. And he writes an indignant to say, &quot;I just learned there were some train loads of from the -- they were obviously to be murdered in the east.&quot; And he's not objecting on He says, &quot;We need those And so, even from that point but yet, Hitler had And the Holocaust expansion, the superiority of the -- supposed superiority all that was a bundle, and you the kind of logic you or did not necessarily apply here. But because again, up till '41, so incredibly and gotten he was convinced that And he -- I mean, by the way, At least Stalin began to learn and began to -- he had of Corps, and so forth But gradually, he began to like Marshall Zhukov, Hitler's response to the first of his best generals and make himself So, he -- Hitler only and Stalin for all did manage to become a about how to fight Hitler. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: We'll have &gt;&gt; A lot of pressure. So, as you know, Hitler and the Nationalists in the Spain during As things started to or as he met more resistance or Stalin counter attacked and the United States entered did Hitler ever make any to enter the war formally to for their support during &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: I think he -- I don't think and his army could have It was more a testing for his military. So, and Franco, as you know, in proclaiming his to get too deep into this. He was hedging his bets. But where Hitler did make a -- the Germans did make a push to convince Japan to invade and that's another one of which is a fascinating involves also a very Richard Sorge, in Tokyo. And they were trying to convince that they were going to take quickly, so Japan And one of the German I forget which one, whether it suggested, &quot;Well, you can and our armies can meet.&quot; Oh, yes. That's a through Siberia in the winter. And by the way, one of the reasons why Stalin could from the Far East in 1941, that Japan might attack. And as German forces were he wanted to withdraw those to because Richard Sorge, he found out that Japanese in Manchuria were being issued That meant, they going to be marching in that They were going to And that freed them what were called although they were not all in Siberia, helped turn the So, there were these links, on the periphery of it. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: We'll I appreciate everybody but help me thank Andrew &gt;&gt; Andrew Nagorski: Thank you. &gt;&gt; Grant Harris: Well done.