Language. It's a pretty cool thing, quite useful. I can still remember back when I was a toddler, English. My Mom taught me how the order in English flashcards so I could memorize vocabulary different verb tenses right. Fast forward several years and In college program where I would learn another language. About two years after arriving in the country, Japanese Language Proficiency Test. To be fair, I did live in the country, but will be effective even if you don't have Lately there are all kinds of great resources In particular, spaced-repetition system-based and very useful, but... is that really the brains so it can be used on the fly? After all, how many parents have to give their their kids reach fluency in their mother tongue? Of course I was kidding earlier and I learned In this video I'd like to discuss four not important when it comes to language learning. Acquiring language efficiently through context Three is Practicing your listening and pronunciation And four is Making sure the experience of First allow me to take a moment to demonstrate If you already speak Japanese, it might be still see what I mean. Timu o shoukai shiyou. Timu wa neko janakute kaeru janakute hito Hito no karada ha ironna bubun ga aru. Tatoeba atama, mune, ude, ashi ga aru. Ok, so Just listening to me, how much Japanese Maybe 0%. What if I repeated it or spoke slower, would Most likely not. Let's try it one more time, but pay attention Timu o shoukai shiyou. Timu wa neko janakute kaeru janakute hito Hito no karada ha ironna bubun ga aru. Tatoeba atama, mune, ude, ashi ga aru. Mushi ja nai kara me wa mutsu toka janakute Ude mo futatsu, Ashi mo futatsu, Mimi mo futatsu How about now, maybe 10%, 20% or even just This is the simple difference between acquiring What I'm trying to demonstrate is the concept acquisition scholar Stephen Krashen did in &quot;das ist meine Hand. fristenzidast hand(??)&quot; &quot;In my opinion, we all acquire language the We acquire language in one way and one way we understand what we read. We call this comprehensible input. We've tried everything else, we've tried grammar but the only thing that seems to count is input. So anything that helps make input comprehensible helps language acquisition.&quot; In the 1970s and 80s Krashen put forward a The first claim of his we'll look at is Krashen says improvement in language ability The difference between acquisition and learning between getting a joke and having someone should be funny. For example, a horse walks into a bar and &quot;Hey, why the long face?&quot; Or a whale walks into a bar and the whale If you thought this was funny, you didn't the processing was done on a subconscious In Krashen's book Principles and Practice of language is a natural, intuitive, and subconscious Similarly, you can learn words by having someone is kaki." On the other hand, what's necessary for Something like this: Ringo o taberu. So, even though you might not know any of the pictures I supplied, and based on that Ringo and Taberu. When I provide you with another example, Biiru Japanese grammar as well. That's right, the verb comes at the end. The point is, you have this massive pattern when you understand the meaning of the message, and deconstruct grammar patterns based on actively and consciously perform. Okaikei senroppyaku nanajyuu hachien ni narimasu. Kane aru Kara! This leads me to one of the most helpful things English subtitles with focused attention even &quot;And today, I wanna talk about dictionaries. You can look up the word 'get' in the dictionary and you can read that, close the dictionary Before I went to Vietnam, I got this phrasebook I came away able to use one word. Kaman, which means thank you. Nothing else stuck, zero. This was essentially useless.&quot; A bit later on, I tried my hand at plenty word. This is a really simple but important concept, can you feed your brain when you're looking You'd take about half an hour to get through For the same amount of time, a television and grammar. A book can too if you're not so trigger And, it might not feel like it, but these head at the subconscious level just waiting Engineering Professor Barbara Oakley explains focused mode and the diffuse mode. The focused mode is where you're racking to figure something out, whether it be a math in a foreign language. The diffuse mode works in the background where thing, it can see the big picture and make This is thought to be why people so often probably not focused on anything in particular, recognition gears to give you insights your You might not have any luck picking up many something, but when you go off and do something flexible diffuse mode and uses its powers from the heaps of language information you Now I'm not saying that the fastest way open a dictionary, but you'll want to invest of content into your head from media, books you. Earlier we saw that according to Krashen, improvement in a language. But, it seems deliberate "learning" can let's say you had watched this before: &quot;omae, &quot;iya&quot; "my cake," but for the life of you couldn't You were guessing it means steal. Then you learn from a textbook or dictionary Then it all clicks, you realize kutta would kuttaro must be the same as kutta darou. Now you've acquired a new word and a new to fully understand what this guy was saying. &quot;Omae, ore no keeki kuttaro.&quot; &quot;iya.&quot; This is the "Aha!" moment indicative of it just happens at the subconscious level. Another key to this is watching television A study from Barcelona looking at Spanish the worst way to learn was by putting Spanish This resulted in 0% improvement in their English Watching with no subtitles provided a 7% improvement, subtitles provided a 17% improvement. Now You might be thinking how are you ever input without any any speaking practice? This is where another part of Krashen's &quot;And this may come as a bit of a surprise Certainly came as a surprise to me. Talking is not practicing. It means if you want to improve your spanish, in the car as you drive to work in the morning. I used to think those things help, now I think You don't technically have to open your This was demonstrated in 1962 when E. Lenneberg speak due to congenital dysarthria. When Lenneberg tested the boy, he found that perfectly. With that said, ...you should open your mouth Pronunciation is of course very important. But pronunciation is... hard. Some noises in the language you'll notice before. &quot;That's not tool bro. That's n... That's not tool bro.&quot; This brings me to a technique called Shadowing: of a native speaker talking and you just mimic Not every word though - depending on your three at a time or two words at a time and Shadowing is generally thought of as an advanced and polish up your accent. But, even from Day 1 it can be a super efficient the same time your ability to recognize phonemes That is to hear natural language. And being able to hear natural language is Because when people speak naturally, there run together. Like "What are you doing" becomes "W't'ya'doin'" Watch how in this scene, Abe Hiroshi turns A 2015 study from Japan looking at two groups made a statistically significant improvement Look in the description for some tips on shadowing yourself into hating the language. So That's it - Three things. Focus on learning from context, Load up on target language and you can use the same audio and pronunciation. I realize this leaves many questions regarding tons of useful techniques and approaches for here. So please leave a comment if you have any more information .