This is the biggest, most ambitious, most expensive video I've ever made. And it's also gonna be terrifying. We are strapping these giant metal weights to the belly of that helicopter, flying it up several kilometers in the sky and then dropping these weights, on a sandcastle city. I mean, we need luck. (dramatic music) Here we go. - Oh my. YEAH! And this is all for a very good reason. So let's do it. Come on. In the late 1950s, the The Soviet Union launched the Sputnik, into orbit around the earth on the 4th of October, 1957, but less well known is that they successfully tested the first intercontinental It could deliver a nuclear to cities on the US East Facing this threat, a researcher at Boeing named Jerry Pournelle came up with an idea for a space weapon. It could hit any location on Earth in half that time, just 15 minutes. It could destroy targets like the silos where the And theoretically it could His concept was to put pieces of tungsten in space, in orbit. So that these pieces of tungsten could drop on a target The idea was within a 15 minute window you would be able to release and have it re-enter the atmosphere and strike a target in minutes. And it would come in so fast, you know, in orbit things go about and as it enters the due to the atmospheric drag, but still on impact it's like 10 times the speed of sound. Mach 10 or about three This is MOAB, which stands for but it's more commonly the Mother of All Bombs. It is one of the most powerful non-nuclear explosives on the planet. When it detonated, it of 11 tons of TNT. Now, just one of these would have the same energy as the largest conventional They are not bombs, they but the amount of energy in their kinetic energy and they're going so fast it is as big as any conventional Pournelle called his weapon Project Thor after the Norse God who threw lightning bolts from the heavens. In the 1980s the kinetic was seriously considered by It was codenamed, Brilliant Pebbles but the project was abandoned. In 2003 it was resurrected by the Air Force Transformation Plan which referred to this weapon But colloquially, the weapon The kinetic energy of an to its mass and its velocity squared. So increasing the objects mass 10 times, increases its kinetic energy 10 times. But if you increase the the kinetic energy grows This is why even very light objects can carry lots of kinetic energy. This is what a 15 gram piece of plastic does to a block of aluminum when traveling at six And this is a real problem for satellites because of the massive speeds on orbit, micro meteorites, small are serious risks for the astronauts living onboard the This chip in the window of the ISS was caused by a tiny speck of dust. And a small piece of space junk punctured a hole in the robotic arm. Imagine something that weighs Kinetic energy weapons appear in fiction including dozens of movies, But how realistic are they? I mean, could this weapon Well, that's why we're here We wanna see how damaging And we really pulled out all the stops, even hiring a team of to construct a city onto I have all the respect in the world, for these sandcastle builders. - We are seven time US - That's so cool. It'll endure the test at the highest drop I'm really convinced of that. - The US Capital was great. - Yeah, isn't that great? - It's one of our favorite. - I love all the buildings there. Who did the pickle? The Gherkin? - Yeah, the Gherkin right here. - Very nice. This is beautiful. I mean, I feel bad for trying to hit it. I am just very concerned about aiming, the city is not that big. So before we get to that drop we're gonna try to hit this swimming pool with a 100 kilogram or a 220 pound mass. Probably go up about 500 meters. Try to drop a weight right into this pool. I don't think it's gonna work. I don't think we're gonna hit it. In fact, my main concern for the whole day is that we're just not gonna And then what was the point in coming out here in the first place? These are gonna be the So the way we're targeting is with GPS, we're gonna take a GPS mark from like the center of the pool. Oh boy. We've also got GPS in the helicopter. We're gonna use that to over the middle of the pool. So if we're able to hit then I think we've got a shot. (dramatic music) - Where's your GPS? - My GPS is my phone. And I have the coordinates We're ready to go. We're professionals - First drop and it's feeling I'm surprised it can - We've got another - Okay. - I just dunno like why Is that 500 meters? That seems really high. - Ryan to Rick, what's your altitude? - 500 meters. - We're 1500 feet, that - They're at 500 meters right now. - That is freaking crazy, okay. - Here we go. This is the one. - This is the one. - It's swinging around - Yeah. Does it have fins on it? - Jesus. No. No fins. Why didn't we have this - Looking good? - We're good left to right. That's good. We just need to go forward. - Oh geez. That does not look like Are you kidding me? - It never will. - Its dropped. - Oh my. What the? What is that gonna hit? Oh, it is going sideways. What did it hit? - Way past the sandcastle. - Oh geez. That was way more off than I thought. - Oh my God. - I was right on. Was yours showing the - Yeah, we were right on it. - Yeah. Good. Well that's kinda weird. That's just gonna show you We both said we were right - It didn't look like you - Yeah he's telling me our - And you were in the right spot? - We were exactly in the right spot. - Oh wow. Oh wow! Look at that. - Oh Wow. - Totally, totally buried. Falling from 500 meters, the rod accelerated for 10 seconds. And even accounting for air resistance it hit the ground going about At that speed, with a mass it was carrying nearly half a million joules of kinetic energy. Our plan for the day is to drop something twice as heavy from six times higher. Then it's energy on impact will be greater than the explosion of a kilogram of TNT. Kinetic impacts are explosive. If you look at the craters on the moon and you look really closely you're gonna see that they're I think no one stops to If you imagine when the they're gonna come in from So shouldn't you get these where the asteroid comes in? Well, the truth is, the asteroids come in with such incredible speed that it's not like they're and that's what creates the crater. No, they're coming in so fast that when they collide their It heats up the ground, turns They all get super hot and they spray outwards And this explosion is symmetric. It doesn't matter which angle or how shallow the asteroid was coming in, it's gonna blow out everything radially because it is explosive. Kinetic energy is explosive. And I think for me, that's just It would be the exact same thing with dropping these rods going Mach 10, when they hit a target an explosion as though conventional weapon ever launched. And because it's going so fast, it can penetrate around 30 meters of soil, enough to bust bunkers or silos. And the explosion is So it can be used for Plus, unlike a nuclear weapon there's no radioactive or international laws. Do these ideas contravene - No. The only international about putting weapons in space The only real prohibition is about putting nuclear weapons in space. - Man, like I thought Now I'm like super convinced - What we're gonna do now, we're gonna do a much lower altitude and we're gonna do it visually. - Yeah. Great. - So we're gonna do it, you - I love it. We're gonna do a cube drop. Cube drop, is interesting cause I was like we We're here talking about Rods from God. They're cylinders right? Now I'm so thankful we have the cubes because the cylinders, - Cylinders tend to fall on their sides, given enough chance. - Really? Who would've thought I you know, a pencil type thing, it would tend to aim straight down. That still looks high. Is that a hundred meters? Does that? 30 second call, it doesn't look like It's totally blowing around in the wind. It's totally swinging. - GPS is spot on and I see it right below. - Still feels high. - We're on it. We're on it. - Here we go. - All right. That wasn't far off. - We're off by 60 feet. - Yeah. Oh wow. Did it look like we were right above it? - Looked like it yeah. - Wow. 'Cause I still was right on it as well. - That's something, from a hundred meters. I'll take it. Okay, we're setting up to drop this mass. 200 kilograms, 440 pounds. What do you think? - Yeah, we're gonna get there. - Are we gonna hit it this time? - I hope so. This is the moment of truth. We've had two misses so far. So we're going 50 meters which for me it's pretty disappointing. But at this point I just - 30 seconds! 30 seconds! - Oh boy. The weight is swinging around on there. It's getting blown around by the wind. I mean we need luck. There it goes, there I'm tracking, tracking. Got a hit of the pool! - (screaming) Yes! (crew all cheer) - It hit something. - Yes! - It was like right on the edge. Right on the edge. - WOO! - This morning I was so worried that we weren't going to hit anything. And like I think the footage is so shaky cause I was so excited. But like seeing that - Wow. It ripped right through the pool. - That's crazy. - Unbelievable. - Oh, look at the rubber duckies. - So, is the next target, the sandcastle? And you wanna go for a hundred meters? - I wanna double it. - This will be amazing if we can actually hit the That'll be something In all the different The rods are made out of tungsten. And there are two reasons for this. The first is that tungsten A cubic meter of tungsten weighs 19 tons. That's over twice the density of steel which is what we're using here just because it's a lot cheaper. But that means for a given amount of mass tungsten rods could be less and therefore encounter less resistance as they pass through the atmosphere. And importantly for re-entry, tungsten also has an The highest of any metal, at almost three and a half This is important because through the atmosphere a lot of heat builds up all around it. And tungsten's high melting point means the rods require much less shielding to prevent them from melting. The shape is also important. The goal is to hit the target with as much speed as possible. So a sleek, aerodynamic shape is best and rods are a great shape for that. Aerodynamics is why arrows and bullets and ballistic missiles It's to minimize drag. Honestly one of the big mistakes we made was not welding fins onto our rods. We're going up to about a before we drop. We're gonna hit the sandcastle city. That's the goal. - Any minute, any second. - There it goes, there It's going. Did it hit in front? - Just in font. - Hit just in front. - We just missed it. - We were close. We were really close. So the tractor's gonna dig - Yeah. - That's how it landed. - So close to taking out the capital. - Yeah. Look at that. - 30 seconds to drop. - Ah, that wind. - 20 seconds. - 20 seconds. That wind is brutal. Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. Hit something on the left? But I don't think it was the city. Seeing all the challenges just how difficult it is to 10 seconds. - Three, two, one , and drop. - There it goes. Did they hit a building? Capitol's still here. What? What? - I cannot believe it. Direct hit on the building, but it only took down that side. - I find it unbelievable, that it hit right there - Look at the cracks in the back - and like it created cracks but it didn't make the whole - didn't destroy the whole building. This is not what you would use if you wanted to cause mass devastation. This is like if you wanted Now if I'm honest, we did not manage to make a even on a small scale. You know I wanted to drop 200 kilograms from three kilometers. But aiming was so hard that So we didn't get to of kinetic energy. When we made one last ditch attempt to drop again from 500 meters. I was just terrified something or someone. Look out, look out, look out, look out, look out. Oh! Oh! Caw! I was just happy to finish I didn't shoot that Oh, I see it. Wow. You're right that it bounced out. But given the amount of time and money we spent on this video I would say it is my which as it turns out, is also something you could say about the actual weapon Rods from God. I mean, just start with aiming. Steering a Rod from God you could use thrusters or adjustable fins or change the rod's center of mass. But in practice it's incredibly traveling at hypersonic speeds. Not only that, communicating with the rod from the ground or from space would be nearly impossible due to the superheated And there are other problems. You know, say you want to hit you'd think the simplest right above the target But geostationary orbit is That's almost a 10th the So from there a rod to fall to the earth. And if you put it in low earth orbit say around 350 kilometers above the earth the rod will move relative to the ground doing a revolution around So between ordering a strike that could take anywhere Now you might think that down to about 30 minutes by placing say 10 But remember, the earth you would actually need to make sure there's always So let's say you want to put Well, the cost of launching them And over time the thrusters So there are going to be But what if you just want to Well then you don't need a smaller rod would do. But even then it's really, really tricky. And to successfully intercept an ICBM, you've gotta hit it modern ICBMs split into a number some of which are decoys to overwhelm anti ICBM defense missiles. To stop North Korean ICBM the US would need around 400 rods spread among eight orbits to be able to intercept missiles in time. A global defense system would require at least And it's been calculated that would cost around 300 billion dollars, which is nearly half of the And even that wouldn't work because enemies could evade the defense by launching several Since there's only one rod in the right location at any time, a rod could intercept one of the missiles but the rest would pass through. So Rods from God turns out to be unfeasible to execute in reality. After his stint at Boeing, Jerry Pournelle who came up with the idea, And in his 1985 New York Times an alien race uses kinetic And honestly, I'm pretty is feasible only in science fiction. Engineering is all about trying, failing and sometimes blowing stuff up. And if you can't drop giant well then the next best the sponsor of this video. It's the best tool I know math, and engineering. With Brilliant, you can make predictions and get your hands dirty using their interactive lessons. For example, this calculus course takes you through calculating the motion of falling objects. And Brilliant's interactives help you develop a more of how to solve problems. And they really focus on mastery encouraging you to develop of the basics, and then gradually And in every step of the and provide helpful feedback. Brilliant have been supporting Veritasium for a long time, and that is one of the ambitious videos like this one. So if you wanna support this channel a great way to do it is They really make a great product, a learning tool that I and I know you will too. And you can try it for free right now by going to Brilliant.org/veritasium. And with the holiday season in full swing, I think a subscription to Brilliant is a fantastic gift for who is into learning. There are no shipping So it's the perfect last minute gift. There are courses tailored through to intermediate or advanced. And if you sign up right now, Brilliant are offering 20% off an annual premium subscription to the first 200 people to sign up. just use my link, So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.