You know, I would say I knew this was coming, I swear to God I did not think the... oh you think that's messed up? Look at two and three of Milf Manor season 2 and if you may remember this tidbit I saw a commercial for season two on one of along the lines of &quot;The twist is even that mean? And yeah, what the today we're going to find out... hopefully, So far, all we know is season one was a group of We're then shocked, understandably to find their sons. All we know about this season so far I was just going to cover episode one and then so I thought I should just cover episode two out like right before this is posted, so we're With all that being said, let's just jump airing on TLC, streaming on Philo and Fubo and Right off the bat, major course correction they spent an outrageous amount villa last season and now they're like, -My name is Jamie. I'm 51 years old and Man, I can already tell I'm going to all of their faces and names. Luckily, it came in a pack of three so we are -Having two divorces with three You know, with two divorces and three kids, there's a lot of trauma there. So, -I'm open to all age ranges but Like a moth to a flame. She got that is the Milf Manor open bar. -Cheers. Bring it on. So now, I am ready to find my love. Falling in love in Canada is something Okay, so apparently this is in Canada and -My name is Barby. I'm 45 years old. Men get the bonies and girls get the coochie Oh, you just wait until you find -Oh, you look so beautiful. -So do you. -I like that we all did a -I love that. -Yeah. -Yeah. You look so good. You're going to have to -She caught me checking her out and she Highly doubt this is going to happen but I would threw in one of the moms from the last season -I feel like I had a great sexual life in there needs to be now this connection Once again, they make all the these women very serious and sincere my life where I want to get serious and Well, honey, you've got a big story coming. -People my age are like, and they smell. I don't look my age, I old person and I definitely don't want my Alright, she really keeps going on about old person thing and I'm just starting to think -I'm from the hood, so when I go home, -Tell us about um, how many children you have. Tell us about your hood. -I have three, three boys and I -Oh my god! -Yeah. So... -So sorry about that. -I'm so sorry. -So I feel like this is a blessing for his - his request from God like &quot;Bless &quot;Let's do this for her.&quot; So, that's Once again, anytime God is mentioned on this show, I wince because God has got -So, what do you do? -I own a small marketing agency -Mm-hmm. -Prior to that, let's just call -Wow. -You know, a dancer. No, regrets. -What's that? -I'll show you later. -Do you want to see my trick? Me me. Me me. So, I'm like 99% sure the twist is going to season so it makes sense. But if the twist is might pull one over on me here, especially because -I hope that this experience um, we do meet some And if they knew any about the show that sounds fun and not like the worst hope,&quot; but I will be furious if there is no I've - then I have been bamboozled and they -Oh my god, I got a text and of There we go, we got our host from -&quot;Attention daters...&quot; Also, what if one of them like and they're all just sitting there hanging around like waiting for something to happen and -&quot;Look towards the lake, men are arriving now.&quot; For a second, I thought this was going to be was in the promos, it was just all the guys -Hi... -Whooo.... -My name is Chris. I am from Owensboro, Kentucky, I'm starting to lean into them not being the reaction from any of them that indicates -I'm definitely here to find love so I'm really looking for someone Also, this guy is British but none of the accent is passed down by genetics. Imagine intentional thing, and the showrunners are you guys may be thinking &quot;Damn, you kind of Finally, I decided to drop merch and at ChrisJames.shop you can pick up Chris James Diner Collection with the super happy with how it all came out. on it. I went with the Comfort Color I really wanted to make something I thought looked not just a shirt that said &quot;Chris James&quot; on those out and if you do, let me know. Tag me in wherever and I will repost it but with that all It is then revealed that there -Did you guys forget one on the boat? If that is the twist, I'm going to -What are you drinking? -Oh, I'm a - I'm a whiskey kind of guy. Of course you are you fuck. -You guys are probably one of the Alright, I think this is going to just going to be telling every woman he I've ever seen.&quot; You are the most -You have beautiful eyes, Barby. -What brings you to Milf Manor? Um, I want more Instagram -I do love older women. I their driving bed. They know what they're doing. &quot;I love older women. You know, I love the bedroom. They really know what they're -Come on this way. There's no way this guy isn't 40 years -If anybody is a chef, I'll take salmon. -Where's the garbage? -Oh, yeah. -Are you really? I was not exaggerating. This single person exactly what they want to hear. -Rilfi. -Rilfi. What does that mean? -I have no idea. -It's like we're milf. -Oh, I got it. &quot;Room I'd Like to Fuck In.&quot; -Ohhhh.... What the fuck! Who thinks of this shit? the uneven number of people, I guess If you remember the first challenge of last -The moms get a blindfold and they have and figure out by touching their chests and This first challenge here is... well, better given that they are not their -&quot;Each pair will work together to Partners will have to pour the maple then move across the lane to transfer the How is this not going to take like 45 just that this challenge doesn't make any this is going to take forever. That is kind of hurts a little too. These guys -We're getting off to a -I am having a delicious time. Jacob's That's cool. Please don't show us. Now, a number of people here is having one of being the whole ring leader. As you may -Come on now. That's right guys, keep going. Good job. Keep - keep at it. That's - that's - something else I can do? I'll go -No. Just your nose. -That's it? -What the [beep] seriously Barby? Come on girl. This is one of those take-a-step-back moments like in maple syrup on a TLC dating show, so don't don't even think she's trying to start shit or -Barby is bopping around licking people, acting wild but I don't feel threatened by -I think this is like the fifth time she said that which like there's a certain amount times by them before it kind of starts to -Oh. Hope that tastes good. This is so fuckin' gross. I will first season challenge except they this even grosser and stickier and not -You guys did an amazing job. Now they're going to dump all that into the -Congratulations. I don't know why it feels so much grosser with syrup. It just - it really kind of -Crystal and Chris, you won -Yay... Depending on the demand for season two, I don't can be damn sure I will make a joke every time -Barby, because you did such a great job Barby, we've decided since you did so you're not covered sticky syrup, -Barby didn't even have to do the challenge that we had to do and she get to go This is Milf Manor, alright? Who gives a after winning that challenge which I feel like the difference is so negligible. winner was. They're going to be going out and -I have some food menus for you to have a look at. Oh, thank you. Do you think maybe -Yes please. -I forgot my readers. Alright Barby, you have forgotten your readers -Who were you attracted to? -Well I think you were one of -The first... -Yeah. So, you were already like swing. That's - that's sick Barby. Um, what because we're on the - the date -So I'm curious to know who you guys were attracted to at the house -I'm going to say if I'm being honest, I -Okay, Barby... I know Crystal's just sitting there like that little drink date could have gone seem to both hit it off shockingly on dates with other people. Crystal -What are you doing? -Wow! You guys wouldn't believe what I just found... up with the trend of being consistently -What is this? -Don't you want to go in the hot tub? Yo, what's up? -I'm comfortable with anything Okay, so Joey has a type. That -Have you ever had your butt bitten? Okay. -No. -Would you let me bite your butt? Okay, so I don't know if he's referring it hilariously wrong or if he means like -I just think you have a biteable butt. She looks genuinely concerned here about dude? Why did I invite you to the hot tub?&quot; Maybe he did mean eating ass, slipped decided to double down like &quot;No no, I, yeah. that's what I fuckin' meant. I'm not an idiot.&quot; So, almost 45 minutes in and still no Not just normally at any given point of the I have been hoodwinked by thinking this show -Are we vibing? -We're vibing. -Are you getting a boner? Are we vibing right now? I think we're -When is the last time you've been in love? -If you ask me, I fell in love with fighting. Okay come on. I've ended relationships Fighting as in like a sport. Now that we're on the tail end of this episode, we finally get a glimmer of hope which makes me think we're finally going to see to see it but beggars can't be choosers because -You know, Christina, I had a dream about you. -What was it? -I bit your butt again. You did what? Also, how fuckin' all them standing around. Is he seven feet tall? -I'm hoping that Chris doesn't try and connect He's a lot taller than me as well but I I'm really hoping that Chris doesn't try fuckin' god. Also, now that it's obvious like they're not their moms, I might have -I'm like very comfortable around you guys. -Would it be different if -I think it's honestly in a way kitchen like never would have Oh yeah, no, totally. You guys just like that - I'm starting to think that Jeep now some new men are showing up maybe the twist is the mom's sons are going one except with these other guys but the bald -Guys, guys. It's my [beep] dad. -Oh my god. It's my dad. -That's my [beep] dad. Holy shit. I am genuinely surprised. I think - I good twist. Finding out it's the dads even threw sons, I was like okay, that's the bald spots. I and that was going to throw some things off. one of them being on crutches. Like &quot;Fuck what If there's one thing I despise credit is due. To TLC especially but this is a good dynamic for reality show. This the moms are going to be all flustered when night but they quickly snap out of it when -Oh my god, they are handsome. Oh yeah, I forgot I'm actually -I need another drink. Okay, what's new? So now, we're going to one of the main reasons it's better to just better to actually see the dads and everyone -On the crutch here... -That's my son. -I'm coming up the stairs. You're broken. What if one of the dad and sons come &quot;Dad, I haven't seen you in 10 years.&quot; -I swear Joe, I was so happy to see you. I was -100%. 'Hey son, how's it going?' 'It's going good Dad. Nice to see you.' 'Yeah.' 'You didn't try to bite anyone's butt, did you?' 'What? No... One.' Also kind of like the point I made before, dad and the son are just not on good -Not in a million years would I ever expect -I separated myself from my dad years ago haven't spoken in years, so I've never Oh my god. No, I was joking. and a horrible way to tackle their situation. -Okay, if I could have everybody's What if when one of the dads gets a text -Jacob, your father Ashley is here. Miles Darren is Sam's father and Michael and Okay, with all of these people, I'm going to need -So, what happened to your - your leg? -The day before yesterday I fell and fractured Not a strong start showing up as an older -I would love to have that partner in however long, you know, I can stay on this world. So now is some time of everybody getting dads. You're going to start to see what way more attracted to the dads and the sons &quot;Man, we - we all have rich and handsome -Hey, guys. I've got a message. Okay, let's see. Um, dads... -Miles and I haven't seen each other and it seems like forever in a day and we're -I do love my dad. I wish we could be closer Yeah, like I said, maybe - maybe to go about rekindling your relationship. it's - I would much rather see something other they're going to do some Milf Manor kind of really like to see is one that really puts sons have to like move a couch together and the dads are about to do some gnarly shit. They -It's obvious that Barby was to get all of the attention. Why should I care? I don't know, because you keep - because you this first challenge involving the dads to have to do a strip tease competition... gets to take the moms out on a group date hang out with each other and I can only -The idea of seducing women in front of my dad is definitely - I think it's a -Yeah. You've got your mother No, no, no, that's season one. -We're going to be laid back and we're And we're not trying to drop we couldn't if we wanted to because that guy's sabotaging this entire thing. So now we move they go at it and it's pretty obvious that the young ones, they suck at this. The dads, now the - now the women they have options. you say? Your dad sells - sells private jets? So now like I said, dads won. They get to guys have to sit home and just talk I guess. a good time. They're dancing, staring at each problem with Barby grinding up on Darren. crutches&quot; on my notes who apparently was interested in Stacey because they're common. I don't know. My notes are going to What makes more sense here is that pot with Crystal and Barby and manufacture this about her wanting Darren up until this point. -Seeing Crystal act this way triggered that I was not going to make the same is find the girl with the most drama but Damn, he's got a little bit of fuck-boy in him. hot.&quot; Then, we finally get some confrontation like &quot;Hey, I feel like you don't like me because I - I don't dislike you because you're a -I'm friends with women that are much worse -Much worse than me, there -Okay, so what? For real. Yeah, basically Crystal's actually mad which like at this point, it is too early not to take sides with Barby because I think but that conversation does not go well and this fuckin' guy get up and I know he's And while this is unfolding, I just imagine the -Seeing women fight like this is not unattractive. Alright, maybe - maybe Darren that's -Girl, you got a problem. You I can only move so fuckin' fast. -I don't think that Barby and Crystal are refined women right now and I do see how it Yeah, what she said because don't - don't you know around acting like a fool on - on Milf Manor. So the episode ends there with a teaser of So now the show might be worth taking another of Expendables 3. Not sure what the my last few videos on season one. It guys want more but who knows with it being up over a year ago. Let me know what With that being said, I appreciate you guys the video. Uh, if you liked it, don't forget share with your friends. Once again, a reminder to thank you guys again for watching and