(gentle music) Welcome to my world. (up tempo drumbeat) Two escargot ponte prise. Two green salads. Lamb chops, steak frites. Shouldn't you be Two sole fillet Come on, make the dessert, As a cook, tastes and and now I'm in So I'm leaving New to have a few epiphanies and I'm willing to go to I am looking for extremes I'll try anything, I have nothing to lose. I came to Morocco looking I want to eat grilled over an open fire. I want to eat sheep's when I look out I want to see an absolutely unbroken To the Western mind, Morocco Tilt your head and and in the background, You'll see a community built and yet there'll be So to use the old saw, it We just left Fez which is Fez is of course the longtime When you think of you think couscous, This is wonderful. Kebabs of lamb or the French name, brochette, Each meal starts with a that range from pickled to lamb liver to olives. Rice and corn salad Lovely. Fez is most famous another signature dish Tajine is a stew lamb or vegetables subtly a conical clay dish known Moroccans eat almost and I was lucky enough to So I've had the best I'm already deliriously But now I'm headed to the desert to have a whole new experience. So as I understand it, we're We're gonna eat some looking for nomadic They do as I understand the sand and chuck in roll a big animal in there It's supposed to be fantastic. So I'm looking to and turn 360 degrees and see nothing but sand and I'm looking to from everything I know Abdul is my guide, He knows his country, and he's very proud He's a bit of an who loves food and What's good? They have very good [Anthony] Tajine, Get that just about everywhere. Salads, different Maybe some brochette. [Abdul] I think Rabbit? International House of Pancakes. There's hotels When you drive across of barren desert or when you finally there's a tour bus We are all the way surrounded by the rather It's like a Princess Cruise Is that Bea Arthur over there? This is a Muslim country we are on a tiny island of I see we have trout here, I see a lot of People are always and I'm always saying vegetarians so Okay, what do we got here? Two trout who were undoubtedly of the water only a few hundred and we have, apparently the word veal is open to that looks like beef to Actually, I'll tell you if It's good, maybe youngish beef. The trout is grilled saffron rice, roasted Lovely, let's eat. Good. Fresh. You know I'm usually not it's local, it's fresh, It's good all right but This is like on the We're not even there yet, Little roadside snack. They like a lot of sugar I'd tell you where we A long road man, it's a Finally we reach The frontier town of Risani, We'll sleep here before our I don't want to I just don't want to do it. I've come all this way, I around in a room full of tourists Okay, let's see if we can I'd rather not eat So daredevil that I am, I Now warning sign, I tell Abdul he rolls his eyes up to the Nothing but raw meat here, No food, huh? [Cameraman] Yeah I should've listened. It didn't smell too good It smelled like My search for authentic One. It's a local specialty. [Abdul] Two. That's not bad, what was We'll see how I feel tomorrow, we'll probably What was the line They find something in that was either very old Where I slink back into my hotel with my tail between my legs. Heineken, life is good. So what we got here and apparently tajine covers I mean this is very different Yes, different. - Chicken with raisins and... Onion. And it smells very different. [Abdul] It tastes Couscous is actually It's sizzling. Anything that's cooked heavy object like clay and it's gonna be better grill over wood, it's almost So a new take on Tajine offers many possibilities but that's not what I want my whole roasted lamb. The dunes. Goin' out on a big sand dune to contemplate the mysteries And tear into hunks [Abdul] Okay, cheers. Pretty good, bismillah. - Bismillah. - The Moroccan way. If you can do it, I can do it. All right. Just before setting out for I'm having a little conversation &quot;So, we're gonna be &quot;that cool whole roasted lamb?&quot; He says &quot;Oh no, no, no, no.&quot; &quot;You'll be eating Okay I don't want couscous, I want a lamb, I want like I read about in I want to do the Hey, I was here last night. It smells better today. I take that back. So I insist he take me back to the market so we Yes. We need one, if cooked for us, we Maybe this is unreasonable come all the way to the could sit there eating But in any case, we need to Yes. Okay so we need to buy, I want a lamb, I I must have this Abdul, So we go visit the local I like how he cuts that meat. I like the cutting board, look Expectable that the sheep No lamb, they could sell you The constant refrain in my life. If you come Monday, you Listen, I'm not throwing I want a whole lamb like I saw in the movie I say do what you have to Further negotiations They have a lot of sheeps. Looks like it's all arranged. Where are we going by the way? - We'll go buy sheep. As we walk down these shabby, deeper and deeper into I'm beginning to get this of some sinister and and I'm beginning to get the a guy who seems to be carrying that my desire for a whole is gonna mean bad news for What are we discussing? We're talking about the price. 90 dollars. Sounds good to me. This is the bench team waiting to get in on the He's very good at this, fast. There are very killing an animal in It is slaughtered and prepared On all preparation of meat, one points the immediately cuts its throat, What do they usually cook up? Just the meat and the... Balls? Balls. - Yeah the balls. This guy will happily tell you eating testicles is not unusual. They eat calves only they call them I've personally never had That intestinal lining there, perfect for spicy You just clean that up and pump in your nice lamb and spice mix, Tie it off into links and you I saw this on cable in France Good yes, save the crepin. I like to wrap, to That's really good. I like that, I would do (laughs) It's classic French. Into the bag. When Tony gets From this point on, Got to rent a Land Rover. If you're going out in the You're hitting a We need four-wheel drive It's like driving on a big brick of Philadelphia I'm liking this. Abdul would rather be in having a tall boat drink With the beautiful girls. I forgot yeah, with Not me, I'm looking my whole roasted This is one of those you know, I thought You know, you see it on and you see it in the in postcards maybe don't ever think you're Suddenly you see in the distance a big pile of sand, the Sahara. In the afternoon sun, I realize I'm at and I've never seen I may never see any I came a long way to eat Drove for hundreds switched to a four-wheel to drive out across the desert I had to switch vehicles again. Kinda like riding a Hey, just be grateful Meet the blue dudes These are the folks on camelback to show Berber bread and There are many, They say that about the Berbers came from the Berbers are the A couple hours into the I was eager to see bread baked directly in the sand. The Berbers make a fire that heats the sand to This is something This is not just So what's it got in it, onions, tomatoes (upbeat electronic I bet Martha Stewart And they bury the bread This doesn't sound like Won't sand get I guess we'll see. Around how long does A half hour it So maybe we should (Arabic style guitar tones) You know those desert I see nothing but This is a pretty major score. It has been a I mean if a utility chef in the middle of the around the world, I mean who would've guessed. I've done every damn I must've done something How did this happen? It's really beautiful. One gets the impression that this is a once (sand scraping) In the desert. I hear something. It's the sound of sand Now that doesn't sound like It's goin' down. (up tempo rock tones) Oh yeah. If you're sitting out with some cool blue Berber then you know you're doing It tastes great, not a single grain of sand ended So you don't need pots and pans, none of that fancy No oven, just dig a Need a bowl, a little I was gonna say I wish but I want to be the to have eaten this, Great. After lunch we continue I did not expect what a full bar, heft style - Cheers. This is better than I Time to put the meat on, Puttin' the nuts back in there. Give it a good rubdown Mount him on a stick, doesn't fall down and Oh yeah. So this is a packed mud oven. They're gonna put out The lamb's gonna go in heat in that oven and are gonna be enough to Oh, and the flavor's I'm really having a good Seal that bad boy up, they've I used to use the word old Now it's gonna cook the sheep. Okay good, looking He's pleased, all right. [Abdul] It must be not very hot. - Right. It'll burn, it'll get too dark. See ya, that's beautiful. Okay then we put the top on. I'm really loving this. How long does he Two hours, that's fantastic. Great, a little late If there is some - [Anthony] It's no good. Right, so checking for leaks. Admit it, this is the All right, I'll be at the bar. I'm sitting around with in the middle of the Northern of roasting lamb in the distance, I'm happy. Beautiful soup here. Harira soup, it's vegetables, - Okay, Moroccan way? Bismillah? Bismillah, always. It's good. You know I've had it tastes different every time. This lamb is more predominant. My lamb is ready. How do they know it's done? Timing, they've done It's like telepathy. The lamb is sending Drum roll please. That is looking really good. That sucker's done. (upbeat guitar music) Magnificent. The idea of eating whole or Moroccan style in general You're not traveling That's a Seeing if you were of fat and skin, meat, pop Oh yeah I know what Testicles you say, Tony that's disgusting, - Bismillah. I believe they call these - Mm. Very tender. You know what, those In fact, with a flavor Imagine veal only Make you strong like bull. It's aphrodisiac. Yeah, think about that. (Laughs) Mm. Listen, I just knocked Wonderful, it Fresh, crispy, delightful. Please thank the chef, Thank him for an Thank him for all the You don't know what you're (up tempo drumbeat) I came a long way for If next week I'm hit by a truck, one of the things comfort is I saw the and I ate my whole roasted lamb. It's just perfect, it's Life finally lives up (up tempo electronic