The power of the Mongol Army is paint a grisly picture of their However, one dimension of this experience such affairs: ... from their camps... to their So today let's bring to life I love making documentaries and being able to and fantasy that are near and dear to my heart when others attempt to do the same with their day the gold standard for me was the classic MMO that really got you in the shoes of a character made you want to explore the world that they sponsor has actually managed to rekindle a lot of Source it's going to be raid Shadow Legends series called array to call of the Arbiter which in-game for free with new episodes dropping every honestly say cards on the table going into this episode is pretty Kick-Ass um and I was actually green lit it was crazy because it started starts sacking of City all Gore included gut-wrenching of efficient storytelling and trying to endear the episodes will be geared around introducing along towards their main adventure and their to be updates to the game as well including new actually gets the chance to unlock our attack show as a playable Champion for free by logging 24th and if you haven't started playing raid yet or scan the QR code on screen to get a free [Music] Early on, Mongol armies were composed These took the field as horse archers would be selected to serve as the During the early reign of Temujin, this Keshik process of founding the Mongol Empire Temujin The first major change was the absorption of bloody wars of unification. These efforts would Temujin was proclaimed Chinghis Khan, ruler of Khitans, Kirghiz, Keraites, Naimans, These once warring tribes were now recognized Ulus. But to outsiders, they would Such a simplification glosses over these new steppe forces acted in Mongol counterparts and will be Thus united, these people of the steppe This was made even more pronounced Like the Hsiung-Nu and the Turks before them, for service. For instance, sources writing about each household with 2-3 men within this age group while households of 4-5 men provided 2 soldiers Each Mongol conscript was expected to bring provide his own, then his immediate superior was likely varied over the years, we are provided a a Chinese historical book compiled in the dynasty regarding the Khitan army. a steppe warrior was expected to four composite bows with 400 arrows, as well as a halberd. They were also expected to have a small Each man was also expected to supply amount was 3 but ranges could go For our model, we will assume an These would have been critical for the mobility rotated through their horses while on the move Returning to our list of soldier types, we the non-nomadic forces. Typically these were being instead used as garrison forces and Such non-nomad units were known as Cheriks The first Cheriks were very likely formed from of China. These men maintained their officers or Black Army. They were responsible for Later when the Cherik became too large to manage, the Hei Chun would be reorganized along more All of these elements of the Mongol army would be given structure and purpose by the Mongol The Kurultai was a gathering of It was a place of princes and chieftains. And commanders were appointed, and campaigns were dancing, feasting, and gaming. As is natural Following these Kuriltai, the They did so according to a decimal Arban. It was a unit of 10 men This unit likely contained 6 Each of these men brought with them around which were mares. We will also assume the presence These might be herded by the men of the Arban dogs was quite common. Thus we will assume As a unit, we have also assumed that they share and carried in a LeLe cart hitched to one of the which accompanied the Mongol army played a large Much of their diet was dairy based. Mares were day which could be consumed in both liquid and dry producing a fermented milk known as Kumiss which gourd. Milk could also be turned into a dried in water for easy consumption. The Mongols were and would scavenge any deceased livestock to As an example, records indicate that during required to carry 3 1/2 borts worth of dried in a salted water stew, known as Shulen, Returning now to our army structure. The next in the plural. In decimal fashion it consisted and 40 light lancers. These men were commanded Based on our previous assumptions, 600 horses in addition to 30 sheep, In camp these men would have been As a point of comparison we will now drop Here you can see that while both might have gear and support elements are quite different. On the one hand they require a simple grass and of both are MASSIVE. Thus, so long as a Mongol war machine could chug on. But once this became logistical leash that required them to always If you were to find a Jaghun on its own it would as an Alginci, or 'those of the vanguard'. These from 30 to 75 miles in front of the main of supply and drive off locals from their In peacetime the algincin acted as the eyes and too large to leave the pasturage of the scouts helped them keep tabs on their new larger deployment of forces might be needed. it was safe to emerge from their fortresses The next step up in the decimal system would be It consisted of 1,000 riders, 600 of which These were in turn commanded by the Mingghan-u an important chieftain, but now it represented Once more we can use our prior assumptions Mingghan brought with it a herd of 6,000 horses and 100 carts. In camp these men would have been add an additional Wagon Ger to house the important The Mingghan was the smallest operational it to act independently. In fact they were functioned essentially as nomadic tribes, Such Mingghat typically resided on the borders of two or three. From here they served as they could pool important supplies and stand In the early days of Mongol conquest they Later this duty would be transferred accustomed themselves to the When the call to war was sounded, these Mingghat and push forward into enemy territory. In this for the main horde. As such they helped support bases of supply. It was this line of march that Next, 10 mingat would be grouped 6,000 of which were archers and These men were commanded by the Tumen-u position. The original Lords of the Tumet In addition to its 10,000 men a single horses in addition to 3,000 sheep, 1,000 In camp these men would have been housed in Such a force would have been expected to carry thus likely had a force of some 500 engineers conscripted into Mongolian service from defeated At this point we should once more terms for Mongolian units, doubled For instance, the Arban represented 10 households, 10,000 households. This highest level was of people and thus to be appointed commander The first commanders of the Mongolian Tumet whom the Secret History refers to as follows: "They are the Four Dogs of Temujin. They have their tongues like piercing awls, their heads the day of battle, they devour enemy and they slobber at the mouth with glee. These It would be these men who led their often acting as the vanguard for the main wake. A prime example would be in 1220 when reconnaissance in force through eastern Europe, The operational independence of these Tumet is what these mere 10,000 men managed to achieve while on paper their fighting strength seems quite horses and many thousands of additional support The supply needs of the entire requiring vast quantities of water and pasturage an average sized mature horse requires Thus a Tumen with 70,000 horses thousand acres a month. Thats 110 to 330 Truly mind boggling numbers to imagine, especially ground level as the Tumen descended upon as in nature a large swarm may risk exhausting its therefore had to balance the strength of their it seems that the Tumen represented the most But the truly monstrous size of the Mongol Tumet combined into an army, which is referred For this video we shall use the latter. A single and 12,000 lancers. These fell under the command 'Paladin'. Such men were incredibly powerful Generally speaking it would be the duty commanders who in turn would appoint the This 3-Tumen strong Chun brought with in addition to 9,000 sheep, 3,000 In camp these men would have been housed in In addition they brought with them a support staff of other herd animals, people, and materials which In summary, let's provide an accounting of their they number 253,500. Of all the beings within this people, about 47% are horse archers, 38% are horse Using these figures we can roughly calculate thousand acres of pasturage a month. That's 330 to 990 square miles or 840 Given all this, it is no exaggeration to the countryside desolate and destroyed sort of concentrated parade-rest deployment More commonly you would find a Mongol Army Let's take a look at the The most important point to make is that a full would more often break up into its component to better outmaneuver its foes. As these advanced, At the center would be the commander's tent which or about 400 to 600 meters, within which no one Beyond this would radiate out the rest of decimal structure. In this way the macro level while at the micro level, foot traffic was made south. Based on our model, we approximate 0.8 square miles or 2 square kilometers. For 1.6 km would take about 20 minutes to walk Though it should be pointed out that the been significantly extended on account of its When it came time to move, the order to strike which was also the symbol The first beating of the drum signaled was to strike tents and gather into marching In an idealized depiction, the Mongol army At the center was the Commander. The major wings as well as the vanguard and rear guard. extended beyond these. How loose or tight this discretion and was likely a factor of both Such a force, with all its elements present, allow its animals to graze sufficiently For instance during Hulegu's the Mongols moved as slowly as 14 miles a Their reputation for lightning speed flying columns which could advance rapidly in In such cases, an impressive 60 miles day. Now let us see what this force would Typically this was achieved by deploying the the Je'un Ghar on the left, the Qol in the Depending on the situation, these could be Mongol force could fluidly adjust its frontage rigid foot troops which required a minimal depth The Mongol army, unshackled by such constraints, could thus easily contort itself to outmaneuver A common tactic would be an encirclement. Here the or nerge, whereby riders would From here they could begin to pick off stragglers was to tease apart enemy formations so One way to achieve this would Our sources report that the Mongols the first three lines composed of horse The attack would begin with the first line These could begin to loose arrows at a range by the Mongolian composite bow. However its true advanced up to within 50 meters of the enemy. to their main line, firing backwards as they would have been unleashed. In this way, a near By the third wave, thousands of arrows would At this point the final two waves of it had regained cohesion. If anyone were left More obstinate foes could be induced Here the Mongols would pretend to retreat, before turning back to obliterate If an enemy did not take the bait then the Mongols learned from the hunt. Here they would encircle of escape. This ray of hope would often induce But this was a trap. Once a panicked, animalistic reverse. Now the Mongols could easily swoop Shown at its True Size, I hope you can appreciate Stay tuned for more episodes on the Mongols and Be sure to head on over to our to catch episode previews, and to download for funding the channel. A big thanks as well making this episode possible. We couldn't have If you enjoyed this episode, and check out these other related