We're deep in the climate crisis. We're but what the Planetary Boundary Science successful in phasing out fossil fuels, we boundary if we do not come back into the It's so few people who really recognize dioxide that we emit from fossil fuel burning It's thanks to the biodiversity and the intact this. And if you don't have a healthy planet, So my fear is that we're shooting greenhouse gases and causing the climate crisis, and at the same time making the planet in I would like to welcome Professor Johan Rockstrom Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in where he leads an international staff including the team of scientists that presented Potsdam updated last year in 2023, these nine planetary boundaries presented in this thought to be fundamental for humans to maintain a incredibly important work. It goes way beyond just a biggie Johan and his team continue to forge And humans impact on them. I hope to have Stefan Romoff is on deck. I already talked welcome Professor Johann Strom. Johann time today. Thanks so much and great to I have so many questions. Let me just us an update on the planetary health? Where professional life and in all my scientific concern as today. All the, you know, curves We've been mapping for 15 years the Earth the resilience, and the life support the nine planetary boundaries. Six of the And if you just lift out one of them on continuing to increase emissions, temperatures And we don't even understand that fully, but very likely it is because the planet is the capacity of the planet to buffer is reducing. on Earth over the past 100, 000 years. last 12, 000 years that enabled civilizations So we are in a, you know, in a deep crisis of the planet. I have a lot of questions on that, but my, first one is, how can a vast majority of Well, I, you know, to be honest, that, I'm quite self critical here as well. I the environmental movement over decades, how most important message of them all, that we life depends, planet Earth. And, it's it's, scientists stepping out of our comfort zones and, It's no longer possible to just doing science for change and science for of course something we have to recognize, we've been moving into this industrial based on linear system for overextraction to the end of the road. And we are at we have to transform the entire logic and all societies. And that is a big step. we are resisting change. and there are so So it's not so surprising that, it's, to recognize that we are in this massive which, I hope we can come back to is we're heading towards unmanageable, We also have more and more empirical evidence, real economy that we have the solutions, they are winners. That actually a sustainable future future that is more attractive and more advanced It's just that this transformation, this very jumpy, it's very turbulent, you have leave the internal combustion engine? Do we go biofuels? how do we scale It's very messy right now. We don't have institutions, they don't know where to put their so it's a, It's typically what and that's exactly where we are right now. So you are known for a lot things that I think you developed 15 years You did a report in 2009, again in 2015, and then there was one last year in 2023. and what gave you the idea to originate that boundaries are all the environmental systems, the stability, the functions, where does this originate from? Well, it's Because over the past 30 years in, in climate science but also in understanding that the system where all the spheres, so you You have the ocean system, the hydrosphere, the cryosphere, all the ice sheets, the all these spheres are interconnected and interact combine this with the phenomenal advancements You know, first we had 1 million We understand the journey of planet We see very clearly that over the past 12,000 had this remarkable stability of the planetary the stability of the planet since we left all the interconnections of the biology, the the evidence that we have this hockey unsustainable pressure on the planet to the so three years before we published the first showing that we've reached a great acceleration, led to the conclusion that we've even being anthros, Greek for humans, that we're anthros, are the dominating force of change on the risk of tipping points, the hollow sea in and the exponential rise of pressures, that led us One is, what are the environmental processes Because we're now putting pressures on the planet secondly, which was the breakthrough in for each of those environmental processes that control variable, a parameter that functions as an and can we quantify a safe boundary level beyond to slide in a direction where the livability, is reduced, you might even trigger tipping points, but stay within them, that we have of keeping the planet as close as possible to civilizations to develop. And That science is But it was only possible to, advance it, thanks to and its stability. We knew about the Anthropocene is this complex self regulating system with we could use the Holocene as a reference you know, to put it simple, you put a safe so you could use science to say, at what pressure So all that evidence was maturing. And in I was able to convene you know, a broad ecology, ice sheet experts, tipping So we had a series of workshops basically What are the Earth system processes that number one? Turn every stone we have, just keeps the planet in a healthy state, and then can we find a control variable and To be honest, the big surprise to all of us when between 2007 2009, was that the and it wasn't only climate. As often is often that's the only parameter that matters Nine planetary boundary systems. And publication in 2009. We were only you know, reasonably with science six of and that was published actually deliberately as It was a challenge to the we feel that we now have all this evidence the Anthropocene, the Tipping Points, the of the Earth System, and here we're putting out Help us. please to, critically scrutinize years later in 2015 gave us the second which was based on all the papers triggered the first publication, It was quite interesting. there were many boundary or deducting a boundary, that convincingly said that you should in the publication there, we, I would argue And that to me is a, very, that, that of the nine planetary boundaries, we have livable planet to all future generations. I found scientific advancement. And then, even in 2015, and we showed that four of them We advanced the methodology, and it's that we for the first time quantify all the of the safe space. So the science continues, the that we need to be stewards of these nine is established. You mentioned the Holocene. What was the year, is the geological epoch that geologists still years ago and has gone up until present. so called interglacial state of the planet. So when you look at the ice core data, both Greenland Ice Sheet and from Antarctica, we've been, you know, oscillating between that's minus six degrees colder, Global And then we have 15 to 30, 000 years had roughly 6 to 8 warm interglacials. And start leaving the last ice age 18, 000 Holocene period, 12, 000 years. And the as homo sapiens, have been modern humans on We've only been on planet Earth for twenty fifty ages and two interglacials. The Eemian, one and the Holocene. But you know, during these I mean, basically, with the physical we, lived as, you know, hunters and gatherers, we had a very variable environment, jumping up to put it simple, until we leave the last ice interglacial, 12, 000 year phase, We're just 2, 000 years into it, and we go all revolutions for human existence on hunters and gatherers to domesticating and we become sedentary. And, that happens. more or less simultaneously, which of Holocene. So in a way you could say that climate Yes, caused civilizations and, and development of societies as we know it. the stability and the Holocene. So how knowledge or speculation on what you're Would those be the same looking backward threshold been different a million years one of them as novel entities like chemical that didn't exist back then. So I guess my question is, are planetary boundaries an absolute or relative to recent past sort take the perspective just one million years back, three million years, then you're in the during the entire quaternary period, well, Well, it's because it's only during the past that resembles the planet we know today. I mean, in terms of the configuration of continents, the the chemistry in the atmosphere. the during the quaternary. If you go deeper chemically, biologically, physically. So, the planet of relevance for us is the past 3 during these entire 3 million years has never been The warmest temperature on Earth over never exceeding 2 degrees Celsius of global been colder than minus 6 as deep ice ages. So that sense are absolute because during scientifically, always land at the same boundary But you could argue that three million years is the last one million years, so in the so called that the planet starts oscillating between interglacials, the so called Milankovic are a result of Earth's elliptic journey around So they're very well mathematically and so we can show quite exactly the length of them reasonably well, and also reproduce long years that Earth has been dancing, according I would argue that the planetary boundaries, Definitely. Because we do not set the or human wishes, or human needs. We set the close as possible to a healthy resilient state, as and we are now in a warm interglacial, and management of nature, of oceans, of ice sheets, in that stable interglacial Holocene state. When I used to teach college on evolution, the fact that we figured out that we it's just amazing to me that scientists have the quaternary and the different ice cores, and figure out, but it's still a tiny percentage And, you're all working together yet it seems to me the broad swaths of what we're, I mean, is this too complex for a adamantly, with full of my heart, admittedly, it is complex, but we have I mean, just tax regulations in any and we have laws and regulations we have to learn that understanding that the fundamentals of why, the ice sheets function as cooling systems help us to keep temperatures at a livable It's like knowing about our home. It's like knowing about our body and our health. You want attack. And everyone has interest in kind of and your heart and your, you know, your, Well, think of planet Earth as the organs of your tried to convey in all my lectures that, you know, even suggesting that the green and ice sheet, the temperate forest in Canada, should They should be seen Even though they and of course are the responsibility actually systems that we all depend on. they even if we're sitting in Potsdam as of the health of the Green and Ice Sheet. Because where I live here in Potsdam. So, so it's like, shove it away. So said differently, there are resources, like oil or copper or lithium, but of ecological resources that affect all it that way, like Brazil, that a source of carbon instead We would be bad, and not only would irrespective of where you live on planet is a global commons, and if I was President I'm willing to provide this service to humanity That is a service, is a global commons, it's compensate me for this. so you know, you, can as well of that service that you provide Building on what you just said, what's I, think, It's awareness and education. Then a role. And then there's action and policy and stage. There's so many people that are not even there's a possibility that we could get to a of Brazil being recognized internationally Well, I think you're putting the finger think we have to act on all fronts, but production sequence. You cannot start by awareness get the action. I think you have to work in parallel, because we've learned the that we don't solve sustainability It's not enough. Yeah. You also need some call keystone actors to get key players in And we know that we've succeeded in the boundaries is the stratospheric ozone in the early 1980s that we were actually the stratospheric ozone layer because of the freons, from air coolants and refrigerators And science came out and policy and it took us to a point where the quite a top down regulatory framework, the U. quite driving in this process, and we got There was awareness as well, in parallel, were not demonstrations on the street that the end an elaborate effort of science dialogues that brought us to that point. So So you mentioned um, the ozone layer, and you mentioned climate. what are the For the simplicity, and see, categorize them in three categories. So, which I call the big three, because they're globally mixed, they are kind And number one is, of course, the climate system, a stable ocean system, and we use ocean three, the stratospheric ozone layer. So these Second category is what I Think of them as the nature boundaries. They don't they don't operate at the global level, but machinery to keep the system intact. And the you hear all the bird outside of the window here. So basically, we now scientifically know that, nature gives resilience and strength for for the whole turnover of materials in, in, in of course, the bloodstream of the Without fresh water, there is simply no, no one is land system configurations. we understand certain big land systems. The rainforests, the fundamental regulating systems in the whole And global cycle, the carbon cycle, but there are which is the nutrient cycles, and we are So the nature boundaries are the four you know, earth system. Biodiversity, land, fresh the final category are what I've a bit you mentioned that before, Nathan, that They're created by us humans, and and they're novel because nuclear waste, endocrine disruptors are simple compounds that never existed and they're just accumulating, And the final one is aerosol loading. We polluting the air at the lower atmosphere. of the whole Earth system, which it becomes a reflector of incoming solar It's actually, paradoxically, a cooling factor problem because it's having massive human health to measure as a boundary. air pollution as a planetary boundary because it So there you have the nine. Climate, ocean, biosphere boundaries, biodiversity, freshwater, And then the two aliens, the air pollution and these nine, they've been scrutinized back so many publications, trying to, you know, with quite a high degree of confidence, say we have a good chance of keeping state for us humans. So you first wrote about those in but there seems to be an alarming change in the have better data or you understood things better It's a combination of both. we have better data, we've made major advancements and actually, I say we've made major advancements, research groups have been working quantifying the novel entities. Boundary and we brought in that science into the update The second is that we have better data and deeper into the red. So we've been able to for example, the novel entities boundary, previously are deeper into the risk And today We conclude, which is really are outside of the safe space. and to me, that the fundamental one is that, that proves planet sending invoices that are hitting I mean, immediate effects of livelihoods for those coastal zones or food insecurity, but at a the following. We're deep in the climate crisis. and that's the only environmental challenge in scheme, and we are struggling with that basically phasing out fossil fuels, But what the Planetary Boundaries science shows phasing out fossil fuels, we would still fail. on 5 degree Celsius boundary if we do not come back Because biodiversity, freshwater, land, and to buffer, you know, it's so few people who really dioxide that we emit from fossil fuel burning 2 degrees Celsius warming so far and all in right now on climate, 30 percent is land. it's thanks to the biodiversity and the buffering this. and why are they buffering it? Well, it's a stress response. It's actually processes to try and stay in the Holocene. an equilibrium state which has resilience geologically that stress has been natural. It's volcanic eruptions that the Earth system And now the planet has to deal with us humans. the stress we're causing with the energy the past four million years in terms And if you don't have a healthy planet, that So my fear is that, you know, we have a double by emitting greenhouse gases and causing making the planet in her weakest state, to deal you could put it in the following on the Paris Climate Agreement unless we We need to come back into the, safe space on about solving the climate crisis, and it won't How has that narrative changed, and how has and scientific community? Because there does is a serious issue, but it often just stops Is it changing? It is changing, but it's there are two factors that are starting one is that three things actually. Number Antonio Guterres in his speech just two weeks 5 degrees Celsius in the Paris Agreement physical limit. and that is. basically coming because, as I mentioned to you earlier, we, we use to quantify the safe boundaries and when we map the tipping points, we climate tipping point systems are likely 5 degrees Celsius. That is what to stay away from that risk. And, therefore, even in the climate policy scheme, that It's not something you can negotiate boundary, and you don't negotiate with They're hard wired. They're hard wired in that is increasingly being understood to keep within that limit of 1. 5, it won't we also need to keep the buffering It's, getting there, but I can tell Many of us in the scientific community and in on what is called COP30, which is when not this year, but next year in 2025, Brazil. The country hosting Earth's leading the climate negotiations and is and we have quite good signs that be the climate negotiating moment where I mean, we are already moving in that direction. let's call it that, that, the is increasingly understood as being You mentioned that six of the nine are already or the most recent data or what's built in the pipeline already and methane have longer term residence boundaries will be even further exceeded or because of the momentum of what's been No, that's a really important question. And only on the current state. So you're right before it potentially gets better. I towards overshoot, meaning that we will be past 1. 5 and at best having a 30 40 year the end of the century. By the way, the take us back to 1. 5 is this assumption in the that all the land systems remain So, so the, climate models have indirect, already built in assumptions. that we will come mechanism that we overshoot and come back? Well, the mechanisms is that once we stop pumping so it means we phase out fossil fuels according to agreement to cut emissions by half by 2030 Once we do that, then the, supply line, is, planet continues to be healthy, then we know over, the ocean and intact nature on land will stress does not disappear immediately, the, And, That capacity is only, is determined by and the ocean system remains healthy. So we, so set of biosphere boundaries to be able for that that the models also assume a very optimistic So, so, so the models depend on both nature. Yeah. And this assumption that we'll be able forms of carbon capture. Yeah, I'm what about oceans? Because it seems to set up that ocean acidification is the There's sea level rise. There's lack here just did a major paper on the AMOC and aspects of the ocean. do you just parse that Said earlier, the planet boundary there are gaps, and I would argue we are not able to represent fully with the because ocean acidification is actually only a We don't have a control variable for ocean for the big ocean conveyor belt system, which like the AMOC, the overturning of heat more science shows we cannot exclude a risk of And if, by the way, if the AMOC would tip, whole heat exchange in the North Atlantic and the Southern Ocean in Antarctica. sea level rise, catastrophic impacts on, It would have a global, impact. So, advance more planetary bounded science on the a control variable on ocean biology, on land, we use net primary production as the richness of all biomass on land, but a massive food web of net primary you know, the big sharks and whales. represent scientifically what are the, in the ocean to keep the ocean functioning. that's ongoing work right now. What if you had unlimited funding, not just like unlimited funding to hire the like, most critical questions that answered? They just don't have the manpower, Yeah, that, that's that's a really important question. Number one, which actually is something that you know, as you mentioned, we've been Planetary Boundary Science with, with with So we actually, it's been taking more or Planetary Boundary Cycles. we're now setting that with the satellite data. across all the you can think of as a control room for the whole with nine global numbers and nine high mapping all, basically measuring the planet, And that is urgently needed. We have the technologies, And we are calling this the Planeter Boundary Health Check, also partnerships around, around the world. The quite uncomfortable about the fact that we have I mean, as you know, for the AMOC, for example, you know, the AMOC is likely to I mean, before the year 2100. And you is exaggerated. We have no evidence of a risk So it's huge uncertainties here, and we on the risk assessment. The problem is, the events will already have happened. a risk that our predictive power comes too late. definitely, but I still think that science needs ranges. And just to give you one, one story the Amazon Rainforest. So, in the latest paper University and the Potsdam Institute, we show that which we know can happen, and what happens is releasing massive carbon and losing So that is well known. We put the risk at three temperature rise. So basically a temperature that would be a complete disaster disastrous levels of heating. When we then ecologists in Brazil, they tell us, you're wrong. This is not likely to be correct, because what and heat causes changes in rainfall and more fire, and that is what could trigger a tipping point. that would combined with temperature, So they say basically that if, we cut down which opens up so much forest that the whole then it could tip already between 1. And we simply don't know. We don't what's the combination that could we are at 1. 2 degrees Celsius warming now, you know, we're moving very close to that, that within the air bands. Yes, so that requires more it's different boundaries interacting looking too much separately and not into freshwater, deforestation and climate Just personally, how do you carry all this with you? do normal things? Cause I'm a, podcaster on these so intense and scary. We didn't evolve to carry Can you separate it from your personal life and, enjoy yourself? Or is this I have difficulties in separating it, to be honest. But it's not, it's certainly more of the kind of person who gets angry this evidence and uh, feel the strong urge But I don't go to parties and give but, but it's, so I can of course separate in sitting on the risk assessment and that is not the problem. that's not What should make us really concerned is the lack on that evidence. So if there's anything is, more, you know, the wish to be even, more and engaging with policymakers and, and uh, look here, come on guys, you know, we, and as I is that not only do we have all this evidence But we also have so much evidence that it's a, it's actually a more modern, more peaceful, more stable future. It's better for jobs. And, you know, this it just gives me even more wish to, to continue So it's it's, it's not easy to deal with, black wall. Let me ask a follow up question who was Obama's science advisor, made pages long on the science and Obama read endocrine disruptors and oceans and Do you get? like a weekly report as the updates on all these different things. It doesn't work really that way. but I'm of research analysts working, actually close communication between my senior scientists But then you have the Planetary Boundary Science And I'm today co chairing something is the first attempt of creating to synthesize the planetary boundary science So not only safe boundaries, but also just very regularly to update each other and we this is really an international community effort. you know, on top of things. And as I mentioned now become so mainstream that you have different get surprised one Monday morning I suddenly get of an update on the freshwater boundary, and fantastic as a way of, as an input, and we then Yesterday I was with someone who earlier in And he said that Bill Gates just picks up get this scientist on the line. And wouldn't it be amazing if we could turn the are dedicated their whole career to this could get Cause we need to talk about do you feel like it's a David and Goliath the world on these really critical I have felt that for a long time and of course exactly what Bill Gates is able to do, but I must not fully, but I would say that today, we in we, actually should not complain business leaders it's, it's, You know, not easy access, but at least quite, and particularly the private sector in the world quite a, significant commitment to, to it's still very climate centered, but it I mean, just take one example, the World the world's largest association they have just adopted a new action plan boundaries. and that is quite significant. The They're also integrating planetary boundaries in, we see things, you know, it's, not as but of course, again, we are at an urgency global emissions by half within the next five We're still increasing emissions, so we need, you know, we need to intensify scientific further. So we have a mutual friend and as worried as he is about climate he actually thinks that endocrine risk to human futures and other animals than Do you have any opinion on that? And what is your, what is the state of the, You know, I mean, one cannot exclude that he's really not is very inconclusive on, the but that is why we have it as one of the evidence to say that the loading of, persistent organic pollutants all forms of, of Many of them are persistent in the environment. our own genome, for example, is a the configuration of our human species. And, could even be equal to or even exceed the risks of So I would say that's why we have a very to take another one which we don't know land, And climate, which we increasingly disease outbreaks. So we know which is that every pandemic over the past 100 And these are viruses that spill over from humans. And we know that increasingly evidence the biodiversity boundary because it increases but it also changes the configuration of species. So you get more generalist species that can carry you know, if we get a bird flu mutation that could cause also a catastrophic you know, by far what we So there are elements here of risk have a very strong focus and biodiversity risks. to what you're already describing, how boundaries. interrelate with each other. Are Like I would assume that climate but I don't even know if I can say that but that one seems like if we go, then Brazil forest would become a savanna, which Do the different planetary boundaries, or is that just too large of an error as a starting point, the simple way of boundaries are, quantified, are set Okay. Simple as that. So we, we know that side of the fence the Holocene side of the 90 percent of incoming heat back to space where the AMOC has a capacity to keep the where the Amazon rainforest is planet Earth's As long as we keep the tipping point we are safe. Secondly, you're absolutely point systems that we have mapped, we've so far analyzed that risk predominantly We need to work much more closely on. If we change if we change biodiversity, change land, what being crossed? But then there's a second scientific frontier in a way, which is that we've that the tipping point system that, that but there are other tipping that can flip over from, you clear water lakes into these murky, dead states, based on nutrient loading from climate or temperature. Not anything, no, has it's just a, mismanagement, you know. overfishing, sediment inflow because of and leaching of fertilizers. And that leads to lake, that may not impact the planet, but if not impact the planet, but if you have 10, 000 when you start to accumulate these ecological rather than big climate tipping points, then breaching of the stability of the that evidence as well when setting so we work with tipping points on several levels So there's something in chemistry, I'm the minimum that says there's some input given your vast knowledge on all these points. Could you speculate what is the most what are you most concerned about Well, right now, I think the evidence shows that the ground zero on planet For two reasons. One is that is warming up three already at three degrees Celsius in the Arctic, when you look carefully at the data, you in the Arctic region. So we're talking the overturning of heat in the North Atlantic, with all the methane and carbon, you have and then you also have the Arctic sea ice, which but it is a tipping point system, because this the planet, and we do have increasing evidence, so not in the IPCC, that if these tipping points through domino effects and hit the Amazon, How can that be? Well, the conveyor there is Arctic ice systems continue melting faster and we know that is what slows down the AMOC, the and when the AMOC slows down, because the which is driven by the fact that you have Southern Ocean up into the North Atlantic. it releases heat to the atmosphere, making in the Nordic region. But that heavy And that is what drives the whole ocean when that is diluted by melting ice from so it gets less heavy, so it sinks slower, we increasingly know, pushes the which can explain why you get more droughts, So we cannot exclude that what's happening closer to a tipping point via the AMOC. that when you have less heavy salt water, warm that water gets stuck in the Southern Ocean, which can explain why the West Antarctic Ice So, and the West Antarctic Ice Sheet is another three meters sea level rise. The level rise. So today, our understanding is actually connecting via cascades via So. You know, again, we're all interconnected, and even these tipping point systems seem on your question, the Arctic is, in my view, where This is also fascinating. Do you struggle, like I of all different stripes navigating the difference because you're a scientist and this is a are putting together to best describe and like I am, incredibly worried and want to sacredness of life. and so we want We want to influence it, but You know, have a squishy boundary. definitely. And, you know, the struggle is it's quite interesting because, you this is really complex science and, we academics And and it means that if you kind of step out of the academic jargon you, you tend to, kind of turn corners a often experience that I can get stabbed both in from academic colleagues because of taking and of course, to me, that's very healthy because it's important that we stay very carefully On the other hand, to put it a bit feel that if I get stabbed in both the front at least, because it means that, you know, it is It's clearly threatening those who but it's also something That is challenging, and that is one of the dilemmas we have in society at that we tend to be so nervous and so scared talking of, you know, I don't think we have all to say, not only do we have a climate This is a planetary emergency. How can it's because emergencies is when you have That's a combination. Unacceptable risk and is short. That's what is the definition Well, risk is equal to probability times which is Catastrophic. I mean, the impact is economically. I mean, if we lose the Green a complete disaster. So, you cannot measure So then, if the probability, even if the low probability with an infinite impact, I can say with very high degree of even if uncertainties are high and talking about unacceptable impacts, it means I mean, we're in this decisive decade, we need So, time is running out, multiplied by very when I say emergency, my peers will say, we cannot today that I think we have to be clear. I have understand that we are in this generation, of planet Earth, putting the entire stability What happens over the next 10 20 for the next hundreds of years. Or that is what is on our plate today. And, we The challenge and the problem is that wiring meant a saber toothed And these risks are complex. They're in no easy solutions. the famous people on really difficult. And the other thing is, There's no problem. I listened to Johan Roxum. Oh And then apathy. It was like, we go from not afternoon which is another issue. Um, so so policy responses that you would recommend policy responses, I would argue, are quite clear. Today, to begin with, we need global utopian, but it actually isn't because we which is an example of a global governance governance regime. Biodiversity So it's a question of implementing global, agreed upon. So that's number one. I mean, we have agreed to accelerate the phase out economy by 2050. Just get on with it. But here at the Potsdam Institute on this, and that, you know, we simply have to do what put a price on carbon, and the It's starting to get there at the levels accelerating the phase out of fossil fuels, to, to the real discussion of implementing a to losing it on climate, that we now need at least global price on carbon, to, to rapidly There's no excuse to invest in coal even without subsidies, more expensive than the third part, is equally quite straightforward, at COP16 on biodiversity, which is to stop You know, we have, we've transformed grosso earth's land area into agriculture, cities and nature that still functions, and we now to the end of the road of that journey. We And, you know, getting a moratorium or getting a we have to stop expanding in all rainforests, is not so magical because COP16 at the which is to protect 30 percent land areas by And that is on a journey towards this is a target for 2030, but you could say these are a few of those big policy decisions implement. Does your research suggest stop the land expansion and or if we stopped fishing one of I mean, how resilient is nature if we were Yeah, so there's a lot of uncertainty here. but we have one of the biosphere models shows a high degree of resilience in well we don't do so much on aquatic the ability to regenerate if you apply the right ecologists also confirm the, if you haven't pushed ecosystems or extinction of species, You still There are uncertainties here, though. For what would make a rainforest a rain forest, is that 40 50 percent of the rain is self humid system that can hold its own hydrological If you'd open up the system and destroy that becomes self drying instead, it's not obvious simply planting, re replanting trees. So, some of others may be regenerative, and many a positive solution, but you may not I would say that there is resilience I mean, the classic example is when the cod did not recuperate, it was basically permanent. example of a system that seems to have crossed So you have collapse of cod fisheries, and can that system kind of regenerate itself? we come back to this discussion. So what does it certainly should not imply, So let's just continue as usual. I think okay, so this is the risk then we have to apply precaution. Precautionary which will always be there, should in my view, And if the risks of what you then even the probability of occurrence, even that in terms of precaution. And, I think I want to ask you one more ask you closing questions If you didn't have all the hundreds of of supporting all this work and all your, what, would be the thing that you curious about? If you weren't worried about the what like, what scientific question would Yeah, that's a wonderful question, actually. I'm, you know, my origins I've always been fascinated by the role of fresh if I just had like a two year sabbatical and exploring how much What's the minimum wetness what's the minimum levels of, moisture of freshwater levels to, to keep different had been chasing me for a very long time that we what's the minimum levels of freshwater to So that would probably be The listeners of this program are quite described. What sort of personal advice would you predicament but also the planetary boundaries as individual citizens, humans is, to never despair, and to rather turn the in, in the science as, an asset, as something emotional and ethical and responsible So be proud that you're sitting so deep, I would say, and that's the advice I give to all what should we do? And they expect um how to reduce flying and And they get surprised when I say to your friends. Talk to your friends. parents, your friends anytime you, you talk about 1. 5. If you go out to the street you're talking about if you say 5 is the most So I think it's really important to keep the would be my second wish. And then the third on. And I know that. Everyone can help this whole topic of sustainability, environment, It's been like, humans are causing a major problem do less because it's damaging the environment and new narrative. The narrative of sustainability is if you put on sustainability glasses, if what emerges is new innovations, new technologies, For young people, I mean, it's a cooler, more has well documented win outcomes when it comes we're talking about the World 2. 0. We're the story of the future, and we do know that if we So either you're back into the future and it gets dark. or you transition And I think we need to start talking you know, what do we really care for? And And what is it I want to give to my children? And what is it that I, how would I, what would or is a windmill modern? Is an electric Car modern? what is modernity? What is it? and I think we talk too less, we were polarizing the greens in societies are still completely I interact more and more with CEOs even the most, CEOs tend to they're lean more on the right side are they onto the sustainability agenda. The car of the world, you know, they're all lined up in this sustainability race. And, why don't we I love the environmental activists. I don't think the way that environmental the vast majority by giving this impression humans are all to blame, and the only way everything that the vast majority considers And I'm not saying that there are need lifestyle changes. We will need that changes traveling behaviors ridiculous, but, we, also know that this And we also know that the solutions that renewable gives us better life outcomes. So that we cannot shoulder that ourselves and it's something that we can What do you care most about in the world? The planet. and my children. I, tried to be very clear that you know, we people, planet science to, to, ultimate definition of justice is every human And that sounds like that's a statement you have to make it. That justice. is actually view, the planet is like so then there's intergenerational Absolutely. Because the carrying capacity and the flows and everything in your work could 60 years from now, et cetera. to a healthy planet and you're born 60 years from Yeah. And remember, which is very it's our generation that have caused all this. ongoing for a bit more than 50 years. And I so it's in, it's on my watch that this the coming 50 years or less than that, that will So, not only is it on our generation's watch that watch that we will determine the future. So, future for humanity on earth. So yes, it's My closing question for all my guests is if personal recourse to your status or situation, what is one thing you would do to I think that the number one issue is to get world leaders recognize that we need to urgently get back Well said. Do you have any other closing No, I think we've covered a lot of able to also talk about what's And I just want to close by saying that, live in this data every day. That's a dark interacting as a scientist also with, I can see the light in the tunnel from So it's not, it, is not in any way a lost cause. history that you never change the world the world by having large enough minorities in the right direction. and when you look In many societies in the world, we are actually a on people's awareness, on, on, willingness to sustainable options. So, you know, we're very, And that's why another reason why moment to back down. Now is the Thank you for your time today and thank you Johan Rockstrom. Thanks for inviting me. If The Great Simplification, please follow You can also visit thegreatsimplification. com. conversation and to connect with fellow discord channel. This show is hosted by Media and produced by Misty Stinnett, Leslie