Hello to all young people, welcome to a work by the architect Jorge Gomez of Cubo 180. Architect, very good afternoon. Good afternoon Abraham, how are you? Good afternoon to everyone, how are you? We are delighted to be back here. We are in Cali, Colombia. We are still in Cali, Colombia. But now we are in the upper part of Cali. In the upper part of Cali, as you can see, there is Cali and this is the Pance area. The suburban part, as I mentioned, is also a house in lots, in a plot of lots, where each person has their lot and can develop the project as they want, the design part. So this was a project that we have been developing for about three years now. It is called Casa 30. Why Casa 30? It was simply the number that it had by nomenclature and we left it as Casa 30, we liked it a lot. So really here, let's say, the challenges are, as they are lots, they are not really very large lots, it is a lot of 1,200 meters, let's say, for the sector that has other properties, with very large lots. This is a condominium that has lots from 1,200 to 1,500 meters. Okay. How much does it have in the front, in the background? In the background it has 40 meters, 45 meters, and so it has 25, 30 by 50 approximately. 30 by 50. Yes. I'll buy it for you. Hey, what a good vegetation. You did it, right? Well, you too. Yes, all the design. That is the landscape. That is our landscape. I love how subtle the ramp is. It is a long and low ramp. Exactly. Here we take advantage of the slope of the lot. We had several conditions. The first was already an existing house that practically eliminated a part of the visual towards the Cauca Valley and towards the city. So we had to solve how we were going to manage the isolation, which is an isolation that must be left on both sides and in the background. And here what we wanted to do was take advantage of the fact that they already had the access of the vehicles on this side. We also consider the access and take advantage of the slope of the lot to sink half a floor and lift half a floor. So there we were able to take out this space, which is the basement area of the parking lots, and have that isolation between the two houses. On the subject of the access of the vehicles. So if you see how we handle all the projects, we always have the approach. For us it is very important always how one is going to get to the house. It was to have this space, this space that receives you through these philodendrons and these alocasias. Manage the issue of vegetation before the building. And how we are going to handle the different levels and the volumetry that we were proposing in this project. Even with the handling of the materiality. Having these elements of cement. They are some elements of cement. It is called concrestone. And manage in the rest of the volumetry. The issue of having the white color. But with a granotez. A texture that gives that material to all the rest of the facades. And the wood that we always use. That we like to use always to give more warmth to the volumetries. So I would like you to come here. It looks elegant. Yes. How, for example, we handle the whole issue of isolation against the other house. Manage a very closed facade. A facade that begins. It starts in this corner. I come back and I tell you. I really like to handle the diagonals. To generate those access holes. And how from here we had this more closed space. To have protection against this house. We handle those elements that help us to protect in addition to the sun. The views. The location. The sun returns. Here is the afternoon sun. Yes. Then the west. Over there the sun comes out. Over here it hides. So this facade is very closed. It is very closed. It is very closed. And you can see how we started to handle with the same volumetry. Those movements to expand the different spaces. That right now we can go through it. You will see that over there we finish in a space. In a patio. In a garden. That is where the gym area is. We are going to go through it. Well. Hey and right now. This is the climate. Because right now it is 5 o'clock in the afternoon. Just. And there is no sun from the east. Of course. As even. This is the area that leads to Pance. The Pance River. And the farallones. Here there is a. There is always a wind that we collect through those patios. You are going to see here inside. There is the tree coming out. I loved that brick. That brick is. Of cement. Cement block. It is a block of cement. It is very elegant. Of enchape. It is an enchape. And always here show. In this facade. As that. As that handling of the different heights. And the patio. From where that tree comes out. You are going to see right now inside. How that. That patio. Well. It begins to generate. A very pleasant interior space. Ready. Welcome. Well. What a show. I mean. The garden inside. Exactly. The idea was. From this point. Obtain like this. A kind of. Of protection. Before accessing the house. Yes. The sun. The rain. Everything. And. You pass this door. And you get to this space. Which is the space. That organizes. That distributes the different. The different. Spaces. Spaces. Yes. From the house. Have as. Always. As I told you. In the other project. I like to organize. The private spaces. The public. And the spaces. Of services. So. Here we are going to get. To the most private spaces. Through this ladder. That is taking us. Well. To the rooms. And it was like. This space. Here. From where one arrives. And has. The patios. The vegetation. Around. And an additional space. There. That the owners wanted. That it was a space. To. To. Have. There. A. Oratory. A space. Where. To be able to do yoga. Everything. They are still putting it together. But. As you can see. It is a space that. With the patio. And the tree. That we sow. Even from. Before the work. Ah. Seriously. Yes. What tree is this? It looks like olive. An olive. In the work. Better said. In the. This. We protected it all. My. My workers. Everyone. Protecting the tree. The owner. Everything. And look at it. The size it has. And the idea here. Was to pass. To the public space. A space that. As in all projects. We like. First. That it has. A good height. That it has. A condition. To. To be able to connect. With the different. Spaces. Of the house. So. This. Here are the spaces. That. Also. They open. They close. And they open. Yes. To generate. This is the terrace. Why. This way. And why. This turn. We wanted. A space. That was giving the. As. Turning around. Everything. As if it could. Turn around. Of all those activities. And how to get. To this room. And knowing. That we had. The condition. With this. Same turn. And with this. Same. Diagonal. We could generate. That we could. Have the visual. Direct. Towards the valley. If you are. Of course. You made it. Perpendicular. To the view. Exactly. So. There we did. This turn. And around it. Is that they turn. All the activities. So. Here we have. This space. Yes. That has all that. Let's say. All. That. This step. But also. Have that. That. Spatial relationship. Well. Let's say. Between. The access. Towards the rooms. And the. And the whole. Theme. Of the room. So. We get. To this terrace. Where. Also. I love. And I like. A lot. In the designs. That the kitchens. Do not stay. Over there. Hidden. But. Protect. This island. And with all. This handling. Well. It connects. With all. The activities. All. The world. Is here. In their meetings. And. Here. You can be. Quickly. Sitting. And then. Go out. To this other. Or. This. Or. This table. That. Maintains. All. The world. Ends. Sitting. Although. And I think. I think. See. That is. Another thing. That is. That is. That is. That is. It is. Problem. And it's. It's. It's. that is. It's. And that's it. That is. It's not that. Something. That's not it. Well. That is. It is. Something. Well. That is. Well. see but what one also feels the movement if all that is what we love in the projects then here you can see this kitchen here we open towards the towards the void this is the flight that is seen from the facade and we are flying with that is one and right now I will explain to you in the composition of the house it is a volume to which another is mounted that goes all the way around coming up here in flight and there supporting each other in the other that in that other one that we saw that they even begin to make those turns that we include in the projects then how to have everything here the social part of the part of the service services yes then look for example we enter this service room on top of everything is when you have this roof to work and everything and how all these elements have a service here they are putting what they are taking out all a space of machines service room service room that has here its window here another and here she was in all her set there is to have this space and everything and her bathroom and her bathroom here and the office of this lighting of course it has ventilation and lighting and this is an access if you see from here l so that they have a more escape and this door here that also has another it's an air compartment, this is an entrance if you see from here because you can access from the air parking salmon Goya s Experiments via lift or by this scale if you want we go down and we are going to that they are going to use the main one we use it and almost that they use it for the elevator because the arrivals are where we enter and this is like the one they use where here we take advantage because as I mentioned the slope of the lot and then we go down in the middle and we go up in the middle and this great space was generated that has the whole technical issue that has the issue here all the electric rooms everything fine what height we have here from floor to roof here 22 20 22 30 230 and here they are in trucks perfect doctor but I like that it feels compact exact then look here you can already see the first volumetric and it is this volumetric that comes and goes out here to the facade and the other that is mounted and turns around and driving the material because with crests it is driving the material well with crests with crests Manage here all the subject also for example of these channels, all this is a channel to avoid problems but also use the design in these proposals, how do we generate that little crack and the whole channel goes inside and you only see this element and not a channel that is there that is very elegant, there are not so many lines, right? Yes. And this adobe is also very successful. Exactly, camera so as not to make a concrete tone but simply with this gramoquin use the green that is coming out, the pebbles and generates let's say a contrast with the rest of the house and always the subject, a small one there, this little garden that is generating all this with the palms and again the philodendrons and more alocasias that you can see and the finish there for the whole issue that the cars can be turned and have a little bit more of that. Yes. To have all the cars. Ah, that part is important, right? What dimensions does the car have? This one interests me a lot. This one here? Yes. 5.50 meters, we go for the elevator. That's all, very good, look, then you need more or less 5.50 meters plus another 5.50 meters, 11 meters. And here up to here there are 6, from here to here there are 6 because the cars like a truck, those trucks are very big, so we give them 6 meters to this edge and up to there 5.50 meters to be able to what? So that the car arrives and can turn here the reverse and enter and leave comfortably, not have a parking lot because of those that touch pauses. Yes, yes, yes, it is necessary to be making many pauses. Exactly. Hey, I loved this access, you feel the super clean subtraction. Exactly, then the guests would be arriving here, they arrive here. It was a work of art, perfect. Yes, everything, even here there were missing elements. And here without a door? Without a door, yes, here because this is controlled. Everything has a domotic system where everything is controlled. It's great. What dimensions does the space of the elevator have? Let's see, this is a space, here it says for, with capacity for 6 people and this approximately has, I think it was 90, yes, 80, 85 and so it has 120. So look, one comes out here and that's it. And again it comes back and connects, that is, the idea of the elevator is that one comes out again to the large space that is double height, where we also handle, for example, lighting, the issue of wood, how to use all the materials, as I told you in the other project. I like to make those contrasts and take advantage of the fact that one really also has to reconcile with the client, right? And there are things that the client wants and one has to handle it. Managing, well, how to guide it. Go guiding it. Go guiding it on the proposal that one has. Of course. And then one can have these results, yes. How nice, what wood is it? This wood is cathedral cedar. Ok. It is very beautiful, it seems to me, and we use it in the whole house. Let's go here to the finish line of this space, which is also very, and it is very important for the house because in the projects of the pools they generate. Those spaces of contemplation, the sound and having all these elements that are now included in the proposals. But mainly it was to have that finish line towards the valley from the pool. I would like to turn off this for a moment. I'm going to turn it off so you can see. Even when one wants to have this sound or the same sound that generates that it is in an endless point and in another to have. All the corridors and the spaces to enjoy that view. So how do we begin to generate these outdoor spaces with their furniture, yes. Sit down, sit down and enjoy. Exactly. So one here, well, it really is a view of Cali and the valley and the hills that I find spectacular. You start to feel the wind, the sound of the water. Yes. All that, all that game of, let's say, intentions that one has in the proposal that are so important in the end and that come to have these results. If you can see, here we drive the beach, the jacuzzi, that endless pool. I always imagined when I was making the proposal and I told the client one day and I have already done it because fortunately with my clients there is always a good friendship, a very good relationship. So I always said to him, do you imagine when we are there on the edge looking at Cali? So that was achieved, it was achieved, here we are. Even look, at this same point also taking advantage, here we did, already talking about the construction, because as we had to sink a part, but also the lot had a slope. So what did we do? The pool is practically what it is. The pool is practically what it is. It is what holds all this land because the pool is outside. It is, let's say, they are concrete walls to be able to generate that infinity, to take advantage and raise this point, taking into account that we had those conditions of having another house in front, of trying to have this visual. So this was very important because it allowed us to generate other spaces that you are going to see there in some indoor patios and as with the same land that we took from the land, we brought it all here and reorganized it to generate all these spaces. So, as I was telling you, look volumetrically, the volume comes, let's say, from the concrete, the gray, cement, and as the other element is mounted on top of it and comes and turns completely to the facade. And before where the tree is and that other element, it turns and generates that patio and the exit of the tree. And before where the tree is and that other element turns and generates that patio and the exit of the tree. So these are those little details that make the difference in the architectural proposal. And that's what I'm telling you, we handle volumetry a lot, the full, the empty, how we start, those turns that you see to generate access, to generate space, and they give, let's say, another vision of the building, another reading, exactly, which is much more dynamic. I like this a lot. The truth is, how do the gardens start to come out in the same facades, in all the edges, here in the same, you're going to see that here we have some very interesting spaces. Now that we go through, but I would like to show you this space too. Come on. That is part of the outdoors. The incredible gardeners. And how we use some walls to create this other patio. Good. That I love here. And that generates you, by the same volumetry. Yes, look, what I was telling you, if you do it here, Abraham, you're going to see how we do those turns and the other volume begins to come out in the facade. How to distinguish each element of the proposal. So this is the one that comes and goes to the first floor and the patio and the first element, which is where the tree is, and the other one that is above and comes. Yes. And that's where it locks and generates this volume here to make up this other space that, through the landscape management, begins to generate this tranquility. How does it change here? How to change the spaces? I always tell my clients, I don't want the whole project to be consumed in one look, but to have different spaces in which the owner can be and have different views. Yes. So, look, for example, here taking advantage of all that, all that... The corner. How did the corner cut in? In the whole corner we generate this gym, because the client who wanted his gym to remain independent, independent, where he could come to do his exercise very calmly and everything comes, well... With crossed ventilation, right? It was perfect. And here, well, all the men's equipment and such. So, and this project comes out here. That's a good one. It is. And this patio comes out here, here you can continue training and doing, we take advantage of the stones that we dug from the excavations that appeared to us, even in the excavation, not even the deepest ones, but there on top these stones came out and we took advantage of them in several parts of the project, I don't know if in the inner patio we also have another side of the tree, there is another big stone that we all keep here on one side while we were doing the work. So they didn't take them, they left them here, this patio is great, taking advantage of the topography, look there you can really see how it was and how the house was going down and take advantage of that to generate the theme of the parking lots in the middle of the basement, here you see the eugenics and here the whole theme of the environment. They are eugenics, I already knew the eugenics. Yes. The concrete walls are also very beautiful. Yes. Here you hammered them, right? Yes, exactly, here. So let's go, let's enter the house again to continue the tour. Here we have concrete structure, right? Yes, here there are concrete walls. Concrete beams. Concrete beams and some, the metallic ones, simply when we wanted to generate, let's say, for example, this bridge, as we passed here before. Ah, look, the other stone. Stone, of course. Here it is. Here it is. So here we are going to go to the most interior area. Ah, I'm going to go in. I like this wall, how it divides, right? The privacy of the circulation. The privacy of the circulation and I remember that this was a discussion with my architects, with the client, that if we leave space or not, and look at what space produces, to have that vision from here to the tree, perfect. So you're here in the room and you're looking at the perfect tree over there as an element that at the end integrates visually also from this point and that seemed super to me. Many people told me, no, let's leave the wall closed and I, no, I want to open it, I want to open it and I want the tree to be seen, I want the patio to be seen and there it is, it looks perfect. It is very beautiful, it is a layer, the layers between the patios and the interior are gradual. And look, for example, for this little room, also to generate those spaces that look perfect. Those spaces that integrate. We generate the cinema here and here we have a cinema. I didn't expect this. Yes. At that time, well, totally closed with all its elements. He wanted with, rather, with its elements at different heights, everything, but at the same time it could be opened completely and you could see Cali. Great. So, always thinking about these terraces where one could, look, then they are here, when other types of meetings are made and pa, there the visual. It's great, because usually the cinemas are dark, in the sofa. Dark, hidden. Hidden. No, here, here you can project the game and everyone is in the pool, come in, come out, all that activity that, I love that it connects. Yes. And now, if he wants, as the decision of, ready, I want the gym there, because I don't want to, ready, there is your gym, totally. But I really like that they start to, even here one comes out to the same corridor. Oh yes. Because that is an access from the room. And we have this other corridor. Ah, how crazy is this house. I mean, there is a series of circulations. Circulations. Very efficient. Why? And here why? Because here the sun. Here we knew that we were going to have another. So here we generate all this circulation that ends. With the plants inside. Exactly. That's incredible. I love it. That generates another, another environment. It is a totally different environment. And how one, look, you go through here. If this is open, over there you see the pool. It's all, it's Cali. And here we have the guest room that, that we wanted to stay. Here also as so super independent. That it had a view of Cali. Better said, here it is an experience. What we wanted to generate. So the one who comes here to stay. He will also have his experience. He will have his view. That at night is the lights of Cali. The pool. The light of the pool. I mean, it's spectacular really. What could be generated. Knowing that, of course, we had a house that was going to cover us. Much of the visual. Now you are going to see even in another upper floor. The visual they have. And we said, no, we have to take advantage of it. And we are going to generate. Here, something shocking for those who visit. So everything with its respective vest. Yes, totally illuminated and ventilated. So here, for example, look. Ah, little gardens, interiors. All with garden. The ventilation is on that side. With some elements that do not let anyone see. But they let the wind circulate through that window that is there. And these spaces. Let's say, some rooms that are for the clients. Well, they are going to visit. They are going to visit the owner. And the dressing rooms are naturally well lit. Yes, of course. There with your window. Everything. And here, well, one comes out. Close here too. And it was all up there. Here are the spaces. You thought about them very well. The niches. With your details. Everything. With your details. And the interior. Who did it? Did you do it too? The interior. There are many things that they brought from the other house. I had remodeled this client. That gave me the opportunity to continue working with him. And many things are from the other house. Some, let's say, are going to change later. Because he really wants the interior design to have another furniture. But for now it was brought. Obviously not in the cinema. But if in the rooms. This is really what they had before. This one if we make it totally new. So let's go. Great. What a good cinema. But this corridor is winning me. It really does. Look there. And the celosia works perfectly. Yes, of course. And here all these elements that open and allow, in every way, to try to find the ventilation crossed by this patio. Look at all this opening. This one also closes. And it opens all so that all that patio begins too. The wind that comes like this. It leaves. I love it. Then let's go to the second floor where all the rooms are.