- We are here in Longview, Texas, at one of Kito Crosby's (lively music) My name is Ben and this is We're here in Longview, Texas, where Kito Crosby makes Crosby shackles. Next to a crane and a hook, a shackle is probably the most within the lifting industry. It is a critical piece and the Crosby name is Here in Longview, Texas, Kito Crosby forges all different and they've agreed to let us in and show us how a shackle is made. So let's head on in and find out. Hi, Fernanda. - Hi, Ben. - Nice to meet you. Glad you're here today. - Thanks for having us. Can you tell me a little - Yes. Kito Crosby is the global leader of the lifting securement industry. We are the most vertically We build what we sell. - So what do you sell? What do you build? - We build shackles, hooks, and many variation on those products. - So we're here to see how - Yes, exactly. Let's go. - Alright. Our first stop was to learn what goes into engineering a shackle. Justin broke it down for us. - Developing shackles has so we have a lot of historical We do a lot of supporting to make sure that we Sometimes if there's a that maybe brings questions I'll run finite element analysis to make sure that customers Most of the design is us making sure that we comply with third so that's the things to expect out of shackles. That's fatigue life, that's the standard dimensions, so they fit with any and other mechanical properties, like corrosion resistance and hydrogen embrittlement protection. - [Ben] After getting and receiving a thorough safety briefing, we went down to the factory floor. - Hey, welcome to Longview, Texas. I'm Jim Zupancic. We're standing here today at one of Kito Crosby's flagship plants where we manufacture from cradle to grave our Crosby shackles, from raw billet to finished good. Now come on back and let me (upbeat music) - [Ben] Crosby die blocks are machined in a programed CNC machine according to the specific shackle being made. Engineers create the detailed designs of the shackles to be forged. These dies are also created for all different types of Just as important as the are the trim tool sets. These are used to cut the edges of the shackles Each undergoes regular maintenance and keep the quality consistent These dies are then sent where the hot steel billets are forged into their shackle shape. Product Identification Codes, or PICs, are formed in the dies, so each shackle and its The billets are made from the highest quality fine grain all from domestic steel mills. Every heat or batch of steel receives a certified material analysis for quality and metallurgic properties in Kito Crosby's laboratory The billets are dropped into a hopper, which allows a continuous to feed the induction heater. The hopper vibrates, causing moving in line towards Once in the furnace, each billet is heated before heading down the If at any time heat that is not within tolerance, the billets drop into a side hopper and are not allowed to pass Temperatures must be perfectly controlled to maintain Crosby quality standards. The hot billets travel on where they are placed on the die. The hammers are all closed This is an important part While many other shackles all Crosby shackles 300 tons and smaller are forged in a closed die, giving Crosby shackles superior Closed die forging is essential for superior grain flow in the steel, consistency and accuracy of the shackle, as well Some of the shackles are hammered through manual manipulation, where each billet is moved by hand to the different stages of the die: preform, forge, and finishing. The shackles are then moved where the excess steel is removed. The hot shackles drop taking them to a hopper, where they are collected Other hammers are fully automated, with Kuka robots performing The robots move the of the forging process, from preforming, to forging, finishing, trimming, and onto the conveyor belt. (lively music continuing) The real work here is who program each of these and keep the robots performing The largest shackles, with a Working Load Limit of 30 tons all the way up to 300 tons, are forged using a powerful steam hammer. Each shackle of this size and large equipment. Different products and sizes of blows to forge it. Each blow of this massive hammer (lively music continuing) A crane is used to move the No matter what hammer is through stringent quality Large bolt-type shackle a bolt header. Robots move induction where the head of the (lively music) Each bolt head is clearly marked with a Product Identification Code for complete traceability. They then head off for the (lively music continuing) (lively music continuing) Here, some shackles are drilled. If the shackle needs it is done at this stage. Shackles are held in place to create the pinholes. Once the holes are drilled, they are sent off for heat treatment. After the shackles leave or manual drills, they are transported to a belt furnace to begin the quench and This process is arguably of making a Crosby shackle, as it develops a tough material that reduces the risk of Kito Crosby heats the shackle The microstructure of the steel is formed into tempered martensite, and giving the shackle the toughness to best resist fracture. Out of the furnace, the shackles are then quenched in liquid. Quenching freezes the within the shackle. The shackles then move into a This time, they are heated to relax the steel and give Each of these temperatures tweaking the temperature over many decades to give the shackles toughness, fatigue, and impact properties. After the heat treatment, to make sure the shackle is Next, if the shackles they head to the robo drills. Automated drills are used and quickly create precise pinholes. (lively music) These workstations allow for as workers move between the drilling some shackles and tapping and assembling a different (lively music continuing) Once heat-treated and drilled, the shackles are cleaned by The shackles are loaded into the tumbler and the steel is tumbled until shiny. (steel rattling) (lively music) (lively music continuing) (shackles rattling) (lively music continuing) Now the shackles are ready to of their manufacturing. Depending on if the shackle or bolt-type shackle will Most screw pin shackles are tapped, adding the threads in the ear, and assembled in an automated process. (lively music continuing) Some screw pin shackles, are tapped and assembled by hand. (lively music continuing) Bolt-type shackles require hand assembly, screwing on the bolt and Once assembled, the shackles and then to powder coating or galvanizing. It is important for the for quality and performance. Creating a consistently safe product is of the utmost importance to Kito Crosby and its customers. The shackle type and size are individually proof-tested or if they are batch tested. Shackles are put in a pull tester, pulled to their proof load, and held for a set amount of time. Specific shackles undergo where fluorescent magnetic and then inspected under ultraviolet light to determine if there are Only once their quality is assured can they move on to the Now the shackles are ready Powder coating of Crosby Powder coating is the painting process. The shackles are hung on hooks that are electrically grounded. The line then runs the and remove any contaminants. They are then run through a drying oven before spraying them The powder is electrostatically charged, attracting it to the and adhering to the surface, ensuring a uniform coating. From here, the line moves the where the powder is melted, forming a film that adheres to Once out of the oven, the dull powder now shines Once the shackles are they are ready to be shipped. Millions of Crosby shackles In one year, Kito Crosby to lift 22 million tons. From here, Crosby shackles and used on construction sites, They are used in just about every industry that you can imagine, from construction, utility and power generation, oil and gas, renewable energy, forestry and agriculture, mining, military and defense, maritime, entertainment, and more. So that's how Crosby shackles are made. I hope that the next time you drive past a construction site, or you look up and see one of these suspending you have a bit more appreciation and hard work it takes to make these and keep everybody safe. The men and women who make these are proud of the job that they do. At Mazzella, we have a massive We also have one of the largest hoist, hoist parts, slings, rigging hardware, pullers, and more. And we have the experts who can make sure that you get the right piece of equipment to make sure you get the job done safely. Feel free to contact us by clicking the link in the description if you want to learn more. If you found this video useful, or you just feel like being friendly, then hit that like button so we can get this information Subscribe and hit the bell If you have a question, so we can get you an answer. Remember, safe rigging is smart rigging. My name is Ben. Stay safe out there. (lively music)