I never, ever envisioned living in another country, and idea of ever retiring early. Amon is the visionary and I am the strategic planner My main motivation for FIRE was freedom to spend my What we did was we made some intentional short term have a lifetime of freedom. You gotta clap. My name is Amon Browning and I'm Christina Browning. We are from California and at the ages of thirty nine Portugal. FIRE is an acronym, it stands for Financial Amon and I went to the same college. Funny enough, we actually started talking in line on our plate. Oh, you're seriously understating piling She was in line just like me piling her plate up high. We met when we were really starving, college students, And we were we were shameless. That set the tone for our relationship. You thought of the idea like I want to retire before Right? And you brought it to me and it was like, OK, I know that I wouldn't be in this situation if it I grew up poor. In fact, at one time my family was We were on food stamps. My father would always say to us, we're in this better. I was raised by a single mom. We didn't have a lot of money growing up and we just But I do recall that my mom was really good at saving. It's very different than how we are with our girls We have a 12 and 14-year-old and we are constantly Yeah, the most important thing that you can do to build next generation. Down. So before we quit our jobs, Christina and I Christina was an attorney and she was making about And I was an urban planner for the federal government Right after Amom and I graduated from college, we moved house. That was the first thing I wanted to do as soon as I And so for me, it was going to be such a powerful And here we are. We have bought six homes. So we found a way to completely live rent in mortgage when we were living in the Bay Area, when we were properties, we were renting out these properties also it covered the mortgage of the house that we were well. Our employer, when we lived in Spain and Japan, paid mortgage, no rent during that time. People think you have to have a six figure salary in order to reach FIRE. And that wasn't the case for us. We had nine to five jobs, but we knew that we could relying on the income that we got from our jobs. We invested in real estate. We lived in properties. We renovated them and then we resold them. And that was in the San Francisco Bay Area. We went to IKEA in the as-is section and bought all of for a profit. We were dumpster diving, getting wine crates, and Oh we were doing everything imaginable because our nine But after we did things to make money and then also to We started investing all of that money. We got to a point where we were saving up to 70 percent be investing it. For example, we made more than four hundred thousand Bay Area. I see you. Having no background in real estate, having no money, were still able to do it because we were able to feed Right. That's what we've always been able to do. That's how we achieve financial independence. I've been able to evolve and I've been able to grow. I think Amon really helped bring that to me and give be. I really pride myself on being there for for my family. I think that that's the most important thing that I And together we just strive for it. And we were able to succeed. I love telling the story of our last day of work, actually for the same agency. We had to strategically do this. Going into the office and telling people officially I we're doing this. We're actually doing this. I really loved the people that I worked with. I mean, I wasn't quitting the people. I was quitting the job. That was such an exciting day for us. But it was also it was also a sad day, right? Yeah, it was a shock for a lot of people. But for those that were close to us that worked with And we were walking them through so that they could that we were on as well. We also just bought an investment property in Portugal floating in between the stock market and real estate. And for me, I love that we're able to do that because portfolio. Right now, we're only holding two properties, both in One is our primary residence and this investment But over the life of our journey, we have bought and I've always been so grateful for having Christina and we wouldn't be here today if it wasn't for us I didn't have a fear that we wouldn't reach it because know, what we were doing was so really extraordinary. We were spending our money in the right way. We weren't wasteful. We weren't trying to keep up with She's the yin and the yang, however you want to put it. We really complement each other. So my weakness is, is sometimes my focus. I can get so caught up in the vision that I maybe I Worst case scenario, if we didn't reach FIRE, you know, doing was so positive. It was something where we were focusing our money. We were focusing on the things that were important to We used to live in Spain and we traveled to Portugal up our list of where we ultimately wanted to end up. We just started looking at all these different factors list. The start of our day here in Portugal. Now that we're retired, it's so relaxed, it doesn't We get to sit down and have a healthy breakfast. We'll make pancakes or eggs or we'll make some organic granola and honey. And it's just this time where we get to really sit with each other. And I love that we get to start our retirement. Something else that is just amazing about living here get to take full advantage of the beautiful nature everyone else is at work. We go to the beach Monday through Friday and we have Good job Mel! Because Christina and I are relatively young and our relatively old. We are at a nice place where we can do certain things Like we can go surfing together. Yes, we can go hiking together. And we don't have to necessarily worry about a baby And we always talk about, you know, the girls grow so They're 12 and 14 right now. And we still have a good couple of years with them in You know, we weren't running from something. We always tell people we're running to something. We're looking forward to something. And for us, achieving FIRE meant being able to spend more time with our girls and have really that quality I want people to understand that there is a completely Take a detour. Once you achieve it you have so many options. You have such a fulfilling life once you reach FIRE.