Music:[&quot;I came from the mud&quot;] Someone recently left a very reasonable comment steel Cybertruck in real 24 karat gold. And personally I think that's a very scientific After doing some basic math, you know, we realized that it would take about $60,000 That's not including labor, but luckily Ridge Wallet, for the last five years, happened to have willing So here we are. This is an extremely expensive video for Ridge Wallets, And rumor on the street is they're actually going which makes the process First thing you got to do when gold plating along with the side sensors and of course the side mirrors. We need as much access Adding the gold is extremely easy while There are three basic steps. We have something called an electro cleaner. This sponge right here is saturated with which I'll get to in a second. Basically it's like super concentrated dish soap meaning that liquids are going that's happening today has to be in the water Without electricity, nothing is possible. Step number two, we have something called Put on my safety glasses here. This is basically an acid which etches Remember This will also deposit a very thin, which is like the building box for which the Stainless steel is actually a relatively Trival acid etch The same thing that makes stainless steel so the silver colored oxidation on the outside, That same thing makes it very difficult to holes in that chromium so It removes that very thin layer of oxidation before it can re-oxidize. And again, this guy has an anode attached to it because again, makes all of this possible. Even though it's purple, this is 99.7 pure bright 24 karat gold. There's a little And again, electricity If I were to just smear the purple goop right onto the Cybertruck, This whole process is called electroplating. You might remember previously where we bath plated as well as made a gold toothbrush. Bath plating is where we submerge objects in most commonly used with like jewelry. But since we don't have a bath plating beaker electrobrush When we take electricity and pass it through the positive electrode, this is made with platinized titanium, it'll go through the Cybertruck and into the negative electrode, which is just some copper strips that I wish I could take credit for all of this science, with a company called Gold Plating Services. And this is their proprietary And so far, it's working fantastic. And we have all three of these steps mounted right here on a cart, all powered with an EcoFlow battery. It looks like we have the electro cleaner running at 12 volts, and the all of which have the electrodes Our setup is a jumbo size version of Gold Plating Services universal plater, as well as their bath plating setup. It's the same technology, Part of the reason for the sponge on the but it's also to keep distance and the metal of the stainless steel truck, not leaving us with enough electricity And honestly, it's looking pretty good. I'm sure bugs of all sizes will be honored to One thing we learned the hard way during this process is if the trival acid, step number two, ever gets caught underneath the magnet, that magnet will just cook the gold and the which is removable if we polish it. But it's been something we have to keep an eye on, stay in one spot for too long. That acid is only there to immediately etch we can deposit the gold. I think it's fascinating that the gold is mimicking The Cybertruck just naturally has a matte or satin sheen to it, getting applied in exactly the same way, while that the stainless steel might have itself. For example, I don't know if you can see it in this light, machines in this particular area, the crease there's a seam that goes through both pieces of metal, And just like a gold bar has tarnished or imperfections, applied to real metal just make this It's a rather tedious process that's just as We've had three people working all I would say the most difficult part, is making sure that the metal The electricity is only going to pass through liquid, particular place won't get plated, which over with the electro cleaning. Once the gold has adhered to the stainless steel, area to get the gold as thick as we want. And all I'm saying is, it'll be first bird poops on this thing. It took us about an hour and a half to get those two door panels done, but I think they turned out fantastic. Get that out. Holy smokes. This is going to look so And then I'm really excited to see how gold finish over top. Wow. I'm not sure how they added foundation series on there, but the way the gold doesn't stick That looks so good. Wow. When we're gold plating the stainless steel panels, the other panel will not plate. So now we're going to do the single piece that crosses over both of the windows, the passenger windows, and then we will be Between each of the steps we are spraying some deionized water, so that it doesn't interfere with the gold on the surface of the steel. Since minerals are sometimes conductive and we want And the farther we get, The polish on this is just insane. The gold is mimicking the material underneath it of course, We're going to clean up all these drips later, We aren't the first people to dream of electroplating If you remember, the DeLoreans back had a special edition run I'm not sure how many were sold, but they were plating this Cybertruck today. So you might be asking, hey Jerry, why And the answer to that question is that away to somebody, but that is all I know the description What I do know however is that Ridge Wallet sale on their website, along with a gold The interesting thing about these wallets though surface they're plated on, so this is a here on the Cybertruck, And they I'll put If you need a gift for Father's Day, And huge thanks to Ridge for sponsoring this plated Cybertruck a reality. Gold plating is measured in micro inches, on a trophy Where jewelry grade, you know, it would be up towards of 20 micro inches, which Remember, I'm not an expert gold plater, but into the purple toothpaste like solution, is missing some electrons. So when we connect it to electricity and surface that's been charged with excess electrons, a cathode reaction and the gold ions recover to its metallic state, a crystalline structure This is not The gold plating is leaving a literal layer We obviously aren't done yet. If you take a look from the outside, which we'll install afterwards. It's definitely weird driving around I mean, it still costs less than a Lamborghini, We're taking the truck over to my buddies on a protective skin to keep Protection is always a good thing. I want to preserve this gold plating for whoever ends up winning the truck, keeping the surface protected from rock chips on the freeway, you know, car washes. Before we can apply the optically clear which is made here in the USA, our golden Even though the Cybertruck does not have any paint, the layer of gold we applied is still scratchable, just like jewelry. And just like a screen protector keeps a phone screen scratch free, this pre-cut 11 mil thick PPF will keep the gold pristine. And wildly enough, if the Lumar PPF itself gets scratched, smaller abrasions Wetting the surface of the truck allows before the liquid underneath is squeegeed It has a 10 The golden patina is shining And to further make the gold pop, we're adding Nano Ceramic window tint. Besides just looking cool, Stratos blocks which helps keep the cabin cool since the battery's not working as With glass slabs this large, the Cybertruck unless it has And finally, a coating of Modesta BCX to We've got more levels of security Ridge Wallace said to hand out their gold the guys working on the truck. Thanks dude! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you man. Seriously. Since applying the tint and clear wrap is just as much of an art form as electroplating the gold. And it's been a pleasure to work with the professionals Gold Plating Services on this epic project. The real 24 karat Now back to my shop for the reveal. Between the gold plating and the clear protection, the Ridge giveaway truck by at least $100,000. When they give away this truck, Grab a gold plated wallet of your own down in the video description, and if you want to complete the collection, there's a very everything knife with 100% of the proceeds going towards the air compressor system in my wheelchair factory. And Elon, if you want me to gold plate a Starship, Thanks a ton for watching, I totally got to get those down to fit.