In December 2019, the City of Fort Lauderdale, ruptures in a critical wastewater transmission and neighborhoods. Recognizing the need for the City embarked on a plan to install Coral Ridge Country Club pumping station Lohmeyer Wastewater Treatment Plant. hides the enormous complexity of a project through the heart of a major urban area while Underground utilities are usually installed by we excavate a trench down from the surface, place damage to the streets and sidewalks remains. That requiring road closures, detours, and pavement original. Trenches are also dangerous for the to prevent collapse. Beyond the human risk, and streams, trenching is not only technically of the permits required. In fact, trenching is for the birds. When the commotion of many trenchless technologies for installing pipes Lauderdale get a 7-mile-long sewer built in less to get utility lines across busy roadways and Practical Engineering. On today's episode, we're This video is sponsored by Curiosity If you've ever seen one of these machines on technology in action. Although there are quite telecommunication cables, power lines, and sewers lines from the surface. That means you're much surgery for the earth, horizontal directional a large area like a shaft or a bore pit to get into the earth's surface. From there, horizontal but it's not necessarily straight. In fact, HDD the earth, travel below a roadway or river, Let me show you how it works and at the end, we'll The first step in an HDD installation is borehole that will guide the rest of the all the tools and controls that are needed. a small fiber-optic line under a roadway or large-diameter boreholes for thousands details of HDD vary across projects, but the As the drill bit advances through the earth, to lengthen the drill string. Through this pipe, Drilling fluid, also known as mud or slurry, it helps keep the drill bit lubricated and and minimizing the chances of a tool breaking fluid helps carry away the excavated soil or rock, Finally, drilling fluid stabilizes and seals I have here an acrylic box partly full familiar with if you follow my channel. Turns phenomena in construction and civil engineering. sand is the worst case scenario when it comes If I pull away this support, the simulated groundwater to the mix, the problem is even of my borehole doesn't stand a chance. Let me I'm mixing up a handcrafted artisanal batch of powder. This is a type of clay created by when mixed with water. It's pretty gloopy stuff, but it's also the most common constituent in side of the demo, you can see how the denser most appetizing thing I've ever put on camera, but The drilling fluid is able to support the face addition to supporting the sand, the drilling migration of water into or out of the interface. in through the drill string and back out of the entry location where it is stored in a tank or So far HDD follows essentially the same steps as 'D' is important. Horizontal directional The drill string has to enter the subsurface from to avoid impacts, evade other subsurface and exit the subsurface on the other side you've ever tried to drill something, but to curve the bit around objects. So how is it There are really two parts to steering a drill you need to know where you are in the first One option is a walkover locating device that from the surface. A transmitter behind the bit can be picked up by a handheld receiver. Other magnetic fields or gyroscopes to keep track the surface. Once you know where the bit is, I've made up a batch of agar, which is a algae. I tried this first in the same acrylic box, pouring out into my bathtub, creating a huge mess. demo. My simulated drill string is just a length about directional drilling: (1) Although they seem at length. If I take a short length of this wire longer segment deflects with no problem. And, (2) string in order to advance the borehole. You can My wire pushes through the agar without much through the soil in a similar way, especially The real trick for steering a drill string is put a bend on the end of my wire and advance following the direction of the bend. If I rotate direction of the curve. The model drill string is and I can take advantage of that bias to then rotate and advance again to steer the bit but with enough control and practice, I could avoid obstacles, and even have it This is exactly how many horizontal directional operator which way the bit is facing. The (called clocking), then advanced to change the at the tip of the bit sprays drilling fluid is offset from the center, it can help create a the Hulk's secret is that he's always angry, a always curving. The rig operator's only steering And hey, if that sounds like something you'd like at the Coding Train YouTube channel built a This is an open-source project, so but it's also really fun if you If you're into coding or you're wanting to get through all the incredible and artistic examples Go check him out his video on HDD after Once the drill string is headed in the right to keep the bit moving in a relatively project is just an exercise in checking the of the drill string over and over until hopefully in exactly the location you allow for a drill string to simply Rocky conditions, in particular, make alternative to simply ramming the bit through Also known as mud motors, these devices convert being pumped through the string to rotate a This allows for faster, more efficient drilling The housing of the mud motor is and the drill string can be clocked to Once the pilot hole exits on the other side, it duct. That process is called reaming. A reamer is and pulled through the pilot toward the drill the pipe to be installed, contractors may ream combined with the installation of the pipeline. to be installed in the borehole is lined up on is attached to the remaining assembly, and the the borehole toward the rig. Finally, it can be That's how things work when everything goes go wrong with horizontal directional drilling too. in the pilot hole. Drilling can inadvertently structures. The pipeline can get stuck or damaged The controversial Mariner East II pipeline in problems during its construction between 2017 HDD segments of the line and involved That's the technical term for the situation when instead of circulating back to the entrance East II line created water quality issues in and spilled drilling fluid into sensitive fined more than $20 million over the course of and they are still mired in legal battles and In the case of Mariner East II, most of related to the difficult geology in Pennsylvania. But in most cases, trenchless technologies install subsurface utilities because they people in urban areas and sensitive This video's sponsor is actually two sponsors, because you get access to both for less than the ad-free streaming service built by and for your Productions, Real Engineering, and me. It's a way might not work well on ad-supported platforms before they go on YouTube, and one of my favorite creators' back catalogs of videos without any partnership with Curiosity Stream, a service with on pretty much every subject you can imagine. and wants to help us grow our platform, so they're CuriosityStream.com/practicalengineering. I know and if you add them all up it would be hundreds is such an awesome deal. You get access to for less than $15 a year. I have kids, I want to make sure it's something that expands of kid-friendly content, like this series that This is the stuff that used to be on TV watch Sam from Wendover Productions try to break Nebula-exclusive series, Crime Spree. This bundle host of your other favorite educational creators. click that link in the description. Thank you