Over the winter season, I really dreaded laundry day and this was why... Over the last few weeks, I have been reorganizing this room in our basement. Now we have a corner for general storage, a home gym aka our indoor bike setup, and a pantry. Our washer and dryer lives in the bathroom right beside. So the last spot is reserved for a "laundry nook"! To create a laundry counter, I wanted something budget-friendly, so I decided to use Ikea's ENHET cabinets. I get asked often, "Why is your home filled with Ikea furniture?" Actually, we live right next door to an Ikea. ^^ Plus, Ikea is arguably the most popular furniture store in Germany. It is well-loved because it is both affordable and "hackable". We can always customize it to suit our own styles. :-) To make it more comfortable to stand while folding laundry, I built a base to lift the cabinets up to the optimal height. However, the baseboards in this room were unexpectedly high and the cabinet couldn't sit flushed to the wall. Jigsaw to the rescue! Ooooh Nice and snug. Next to the laundry counter will be a closet for linens and off-season clothing. Since we had some leftover drawers from our old PAX wardrobe, we decided to use the trusty PAX system once again. Personally, I find it really fun to build Ikea furniture with Pat. :D It's like life-size lego for us, haha. The best thing I've hoarded is an old shower curtain that makes a great dropcloth for painting on our dining table. ^^ So I've been thinking about what to do with the doors and drawer fronts in the laundry corner. Then I chanced upon this picture on Instagram and I fell absolutely in love with the Beadboard look. I think that the laundry room would be the perfect place to experiment with this style because it's kind of a "low-risk" space. I say "low-risk" because it's in the basement and not really a room that we would spend all our time in, so if I do get sick of it, it's not the end of the world. ^^ I managed to find some paintable beadboard wallpaper on Amazon and as usual, I'll be using Modpodge to adhere the wallpaper to the doors. After working with wallpaper a handful of times, I've found it best to work in sections. First apply a thin layer of glue to stick down one end of the wallpaper and use a squeegee or card to push any air bubbles out. Then, repeat in small sections until the end. I applied the beadboard wallpaper to the insides of every door and drawer front. It is especially important to score the ends in order to slice off neatly with a sharp blade. To cover imperfections, we added a paintable acrylic sealant on the edges. Any excess can be easily peeled away once the sealant dries. I finally got my hands on the famous Zinsser BIN primer! It's winter and I really want to avoid any heavy sanding. This primer sticks well to laminate furniture without any sanding. However, it's quite expensive and hard to find in Germany so it's reserved for bigger projects, especially in the colder weather! To get a very smooth finish, you can also choose to do light sanding right after priming and before painting. I discovered a new range of pastel chalk paints by Schoner Wohnen and was instantly drawn by the powdery blues for the laundry room. I don't know, in the video/on camera, this looks nicer but in real life this looks nicer. *laughs in what-do-I-do* Pat: We're gonna have a mountain lake (Bergseeruhe). What is Bach-, Bachplatschern? Pat: The sound of the stream, when it splashes. Oh, they both have nice names. I can't even use the name to decide. Pat: No, Bachplatschern is more noisy, Bergseeruhe is silent. I guess you already know what Pat is leaning towards... ^^ In the end, the "peaceful mountain lake" wins! Now you know my secret... When I'm stuck on paint choices, I just use the name to decide hehe. I spent about 8 days painting. Each surface had 2 coats of primer, then 2 to 3 coats of blue chalk paint, and I sealed it with another 2 coats of Polycrylic. It is crucial to let each layer dry sufficiently in order to get the best finish. Can someone tell me if it's safe to use my canned foods like this? Hehe. Most DIY Youtube videos I watch are from the US and Canada. It can be confusing to find the German equivalent of products used. After some research, I've found out that the top coat Mobel-Klarlack is a water-based mixture of Polycrylic that is less pungent than PU. It is durable enough to protect indoor surfaces from scratches. It is also colourless, but will darken painted surfaces slightly. After 2 coats of sealant, I let it dry fully for 6h before installing. We installed the leftover drawers from our old wardrobe. If your drawer slides aren't smooth anymore, just add some WD-40. Good as new! I decided to get an affordable countertop from Ikea. It is a 186x2.8cm white laminated countertop that costs only 33EUR. As usual, I wrestled with the packaging... :-) Initially, I had pictured a butcherblock or black marble countertop but even the laminated versions were way out of my budget. A white countertop would be nice and bright to fold laundry on anyway ^^ In the future, I could also always add contact paper to switch it up if I wanted to. My hero. :-D It could not be more perfect. :-) To bring some warmth, I'm using a mix of brass and wood hardware. Do you think I should do there, where you're holding it, or in the middle of the... Pat: You mean here? I think they both look kinda good. Pat: Mmh, I think I would put it here though. Why? Pat: Just personal preference? Pat: I don't know, somehow... Putting it here makes this whole... It takes the moment away. I think I know what you mean. I think it looks nicer on top. Pat: After putting it here more often, I'm not sure... Pat: This is not aligned, right? The distance here is not the same, is it? Because then you either need to put it here in the middle and then it's not centred anymore, or you actually put it in the centre but then it looks off because the pattern is not centred. That is a brilliant case. Pat: Then here? Should we put it more on top like you did now? Oh no, now there's another question! Pat: You can put it a bit (above the centre). Ya, but what is "a bit"? The decisions are never-ending... ^^ A lot of progress has been made over the past week, so let me update you! As you can see, I decided to leave a gap here between the drawers and wardrobe. Our main laundry basket is already in the bathroom, so I think I'll build some shelves and add smaller baskets for separated laundry. We separate things like socks, undergarments and sportswear and they are currently cluttering up the bathroom so I think this will be a good solve. This is our linen closet. We have our towels, foldable ironing board, iron and steamer. Sheets and pillowcases are in the drawers and they all have labels so it's just easier to remember where to organize them. We actually showed a video of this fully-opening corner door to my in-laws and they were so impressed so I'm actually quite proud of this idea, hehe. To attach the 2 doors together, I got these 135*-degree hinges that I got off Amazon. They didn't fit into the pre-drilled holes of the Ikea doors, so to fix that I just bought some of these hinge repair plates from the hardware store. They're pretty inexpensive. I just put the hinge on top of them so they're nice and secure. As for the door that's attached to the wardrobe, I used 160degree hinges that you can also get from Ikea. But since all the weight of these 2 doors are resting on just these 3 hinges, I wanted to support them so that they could last as long as possible. So I also added a magnet at the top of the wardrobe and it makes a click when it opens and closes. Next, we bought a wall cabinet with glass doors. I was planning to leave it white but after seeing it in the space, I decided to paint it blue like the rest of the cabinets. So I went through another 3-day journey of priming, painting and sealing :D I also added the beadboard wallpaper to the back of the cabinet, just to tie it in with the rest of the room. I really like the look of traditional inset cabinets, and I think that style is pretty popular in the US but I don't see it very often here in Germany. So I framed out the upper cabinet by adding wood pieces all around, added wood filler to any gaps and painted the whole thing blue. What I totally forgot was to fill the holes here and paint over it but... ummmm... we'll leave that for next year?? Anyway, I also added thin painted pieces of mdf to wrap the drawers and wardrobe so as to create this subtle inset look. ...Which brings us to today~ We have all this blue so I want to add some warmth by adding a wooden peg rail here and a rod here to hang some laundry. So let's get to work! I recently reorganized my DIY room and realised I already had all the materials I needed to make a peg rail so this was quite a spontaneous decision! Which, in my opinion, are the best type of decisions ^^ I want there to be a 9cm gap between each of my pegs and since my pegs have a diameter of 2cm, that means the gap between the centres is 11cm. So I will just do a marking at every 11cm (starting from the centre). And I'm doing this to the back of my board because I want to stain this so it'll just be easier if I do all my markings at the back. So now that I have all my lines here, I just have to use my square ruler and mark out the middle. In my case it's 4.7cm. This is the point that I have to drill a pilot hole in. To hang the peg rail on the wall, I just calculated the middle of what my side is here in order to put a pilot hole at the end. Another great tip I learned from a subscriber is to clamp a piece of spare wood on the bottom in order to get a clean exit hole when you drill. I also drilled small pilot holes into the centre of every peg. I've pre-drilled holes along my wood plank and also in my dowels. At the back now, I'll use a countersink drill bit to create a slightly bigger hole so that my screw can sit flushed inside and this can sit flushed to the wall. The peg rail will be really useful for hanging our laundry basket, along with cleaning tools like brooms and brushes. I added pocket holes to the back of another wood plank to create a second peg rail with a shelf. I'm using a tinted hardwax oil to stain and seal the peg rails. In truth, I have a trauma from wood stains. The traumatizing fear of whether this stain will ruin everything... This time though, I think I chose the right stain colour! Pat came in and asked why I was staining one with the pegs on and the other with the pegs off. Honestly it was just because I'm too lazy to remove the pegs from this. I just treated it as an experiment to see which one's easier to stain. And as expected, staining the pegs and the board separately is way easier. This was pretty impossible to film, but I added thin pieces of wood in the gap between the closet and drawers so that I could create shelves. I also measured and cut some trim for a nice seamless shelf front. The last thing on the list is a laundry pole! When we first moved into this apartment, you would not believe how excited we were to have a laundry room! We'd hoped to install the washer and dryer in this room. Unfortunately, they could only be installed in the adjacent bathroom. But silver lining, we get to turn this room into something more. Maybe it isn't a typical "laundry room" like we wanted... But as long as it serves our needs, it can be a mishmash of rooms :-) A "peaceful mountain lake blue" laundry corner I hope you love it as much as I do :-)