Six antennae bristle Poli, 42 years old It's 11 p.m. It's gone for the night. He needs a bulletproof vest Welcome to Chicago. Poli is a reporter, Tonight is another night but hopefully no death. This is often what happens He does not hope for death, but connected the dead and wounded, An armed man, Chicago is one of the cities Reports of gunshots, Another shooting is coming Poli must go fast before that Stop, step back! You are on a stage Let us settle this. Yes as always. The balance sheet is heavy, The shooting took place Hiding in a dead end, a man Two passers-by returning It's typical Shots They aim at a person, and injure It's been 20 years and it does not miss a dozen shootings It's like covering the war in It's really serious It's the war! It's the war Two injured men on the ground Barely got into his car, a new set of accounts The drama unfolded The traces of the crime new victims A minor injury The cousin of the most seriously injured He was cushy, He was quiet. Look, Awakened by gunshots and screams, Another injured? Yes, in the chest. Oh my God ! My son Where is my nephew? I don't know mom yet. I do not understand It's not good at all. No, it's not good. One of the targets His companion was in the house I call you later. This is typically what happens That does not make any sense. You can't even enjoy under the porch of your house, without What happened ? Called to the scene, Grieving families, shootings, It has become the banal daily Tell me something. 7000 kilometers from Paris, Chicago. View of Lake Michigan, almost figure Beaches, joggers, to worry about the bloody war With its wide avenues, its prestigious buildings, Chicago It attracts more than 44 million Everyone wants to find out It is here that the President of the United States A career start in Chicago's southern neighborhoods, Around the center a belt of violence and misery and the south of the city. Six hundred gangs give themselves up Among them, two ultra-violent clans No weakness. ...against the Jojo world. We are crazy. Immersion We smoked it. A gang war from one of the prisons Here, the majority of prisoners Faced with 12,000 prisoners, Their mission, The gang problem is on the streets, In the streets, to eradicate A colleague comes Their mission They were in the back of the car, It's a bullet hole. This war is decimating the gangs, she does more and more I'm mad At the other end of town, a community managed to end You often go No. With millions of dollars gays Chicago Survey, In the city center, Old fashioned gangster outfits, the circuit is called &quot;Les Incorruptibles&quot;, who were stalking Al Capone. The most famous gangster in the world, The Mafia Godfather It is to him that the city The attraction is a hit. She displays It's obvious It's the only town Are you ready, In the bus, came to taste the local folklore, During two hours, The, The highlight of the show is the story of the slaughter For the next eleven seconds, For these tourists, You have loved ? Thank you sir. Thanks for coming. In Chicago's southern neighborhoods, When moving away from the city center, but huge ghettos. A predominantly black population A record in the country. Here, those who do not belong and they don't even dare anymore Today, Roui, an ex-Marine, are on a mission. The soldier keeps his old habits The weapon always It is in case The client of these bodyguards, She is neither a star just a nurse In this city, and a computer, why you have It is absolutely necessary, Here, She can be attacked We can shoot him. To shoot on ? Yes, just like me. Why ? She's a nurse. Why ? It's like that It's like that They shoot people Bullets can reach The nurse's employer calls upon Every patient visit The price of survival Today heading south to Chicago, One of the neighborhoods In seven months, more than 50 people were killed This avenue we're driving on Discreet car, civilian clothes, the two bodyguards Better not attract attention Where is your weapon? You don't take it out? No, my main concern, The most important, There's one street left to cross Vigilance remains maximum. A shooting Hello, This young man The drama unfolded a few streets Charles is 33 years old, he is today What happened to you ? I was shot at. Where ? two here, Also in the back? Yes, behind my back. Five times ? Five times. Why ? It's because We were discussing. Just an argument, Just an argument He pulled out his gun. He wanted to kill you? Yes of course. Don't you think so? five balls, That hurts you ? Every week, the nurse comes to watch Charles does not mean There would be more than 600, concentrated Vice Lords, Latin Kings, their power extends Their fight is played district by district, ultra-violent gangs for the control They post their videos or declaration of war. What does the most damage is that all these gangs and do not hesitate to draw. In these CCTV footage, you will see as it happens every day It's 3 p.m. This man in blue, A man comes, An accomplice follows him, gun in hand, The target takes refuge behind his car Men shoot each other in a few seconds, The man in blue comes out of it by a miracle, leave by car. For the authorities, is a difficult task. Ninth District Police Station, Six o'clock, Bob and Leo Military bulletproof vests, rifle For several nights, shootings To avoid account settling, Armed individual, report, He is armed The alert is taken seriously Several cars Put your hands up! Your hands in the air! Do you have anything on you? The young man Did you throw something away? Yet, gun in hand, Here we go guys. We thought it was him. A man in shorts was reported, The suspect is not the right one, in the neighborhood If Leo and Bob, they have to keep an eye You see these guys there, playing Are they part of the gang? You see that many it's the color For instance, With the baby yes, yes also the one Look, it has light blue Colors as a sign of belonging, tagged on the walls For the Latin Signs, It looks calm. Yes but that does not mean that a gang They don't care that there are babies that doesn't stop them their enemies, They are in the next street. Look at the bunny over there! It's the Two Six gang. Leo and Bob are at the border Or rather the front line, on this wall, declare war There, the symbol is upside down. You remember They spill it A little further, in a neighboring district, Two young In the police you have to know the tags, When was In November. Why ? A blade ? Show me your tattoos. on his arm, Below, Indelible mark of his rivalry This tattoo on the face means They do this haircut They shave above His tattoos, his haircuts for the opposing gang Look, I was shot. It was three weeks ago wounds It's like that here, The people any rival Here gang members Don't get killed. In Chicago, this kind of warning, If the gangs are this violent, the place of all their dealings I do this all day. Despite the presence of the police, drug supermarkets. I want to earn money, You see all these guys there They all sell drugs. Here is the heroine. Chicago is one of the cities where the most drugs are consumed, that wreak havoc It's in these abandoned houses, that drug addicts come to take Like this woman ten times a day, that she gets high I'm on top After a single puff, We smoke crack The dose is $10, she spends 5000 To pay for it, To make money, I sell my Do you sell your sex? Yes, I sell my sex. crack, He takes your body Why are you taking crack? It's the way A need to escape reality Millions of dollars for which Tonight, Bob and Leo's radio An officer Someone called. It's a series of shots, It's a shootout The car came that way They are Yes, It's a golden car. What kind of car? It was I do not know, They fired On you ? Yes I was trying I just took my dogs out, the car and she started It was the rear passenger who was shooting. But who was he aiming at? It's me Because they saw It's a gang story. Are you from a gang? Yes. Which ? The Latin Kings. There is a bullet hole there. They hit the car. The shooters As in most cases, to find One thing is certain, between gangs, for this attempt Not tonight a priori, Either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. You can never know. Eradicating crime is They are 12,200 against When the police arrest them, In the life of a gangster in Chicago, the prison, More than 10,000 detainees Exceptionally, the prison accepted It's 3 p.m. like everyday, John, Your deposit goes up Your trial is scheduled Extend your arm to the left, The man is marked What is this number ? This is his number These inmates are dangerous. The majority of them A prison officer is charged Martin, Impossible to deceive him. Sergeant Kaloudice Two dots tattooed there He also tattooed friend Street These are the limits If cameras are rarely allowed is that the situation That's what happened The gardians A fight between rival gangs The guards film the scene, images are taken The guards return. Gang members fight Prisoners Although the guards Assessment, two prisoners injured in the shoulder, It's to avoid violence have been recruited. They work here Prisoners arrive. We have order I do not want that You should always stay The prison is divided Inmates live together Here the prisoners The authorities separate them to avoid But even mixed, the inmates You know what it is man What does it mean ? He's gangsters The risk is Every day, the two sergeants Usually fights start here, for supervisors. They hide under the stairs The fights start either in the Often, That's why me, In that case, I discuss with them and there, the guys Stories but it's often stories They are so vigilant, a real barbaric weapons That's a metal rod they got It is most certainly But also fixings for neon lights Inmates use everything These weapons I can tell you that the most Why ? Because they pierce. These makeshift weapons and it is as much For Sergeant Manaus, gang war The gang problem is on the streets, Why ? They don't stop they don't stop being a member It's a lifestyle choice. Six am, Swag, 19, released from six months in prison His friends How was prison? How was it ? Jail is jail. What happened ? There was a fight, I was there Among those who await him, Swag, is a rapper. Here are his clips. big cars, The first thing is to surrender It's downright crazy This grave, nicknamed Jojo, died under the bullets Everytime What does that mean, crazy? It hurts. It hurts. Since the death of his brother, Can you be a target? Yes of course. there are dead It's not just us They will want revenge, It's the war. Are you afraid of dying? No, I am not afraid. When my time comes You are only 19 years old. Yes I know, but I can't do anything If it should happen, Jojo, They looked like two This song Gun in hand, he provokes a gang A song Black Disciples Killers, Swag and Jojo grew up in Inglewood, and the most violent Here, Jojo and Swag's buddies, against the Black Disciples. Me, what I do all day, They do nothing all day Above all, they have just come up We are the Jojo World. Is this your own gang? It's your own gang, We are crazy These boys that we could almost just shot a clip. A message addressed These boys who declare war, to see in the street. With their frightening allure, they However, they were not intended Jojo has become their emblem. Swag, wants to tell us His house This is Jojo's cap. There we have his room, You haven't touched anything. Yes, Why ? Because we don't want to change anything, You miss him ? Of course I miss him he is both my son, Why do you say he's my son, We never had since we were babies, Jojo, it's the banal story in red-light districts. Small, he was a shy child, An angel's face, a good student at school, and when Jojo is twelve, Dad is gone for good for drug trafficking The two brothers, Jojo and Swag We had nobody Teach us We had a mother, but a mother, But the street Sometimes you have to do You must be strong. Moms don't teach you that, We wanted to meet had declared war. To find them, It's night difficult and dangerous All outsiders It took a month of negotiation The meeting takes place in this city Here, two men were shot Among the children of the city, In the sights of the police all demanded They never go out It's like that You have no right No right to weakness. Take a good look at the dirty guy you won't see it The, The neighborhood will never die, It's been fifteen years It's a war zone here. I'm like in their pockets, They tell us come from drug trafficking, It's a Glock 40. Everyone has guns here. Everybody. In Chicago there are a lot of guns, You can believe me, It's easy ? Really easy. Where ? Here the weapons it rains, When you use your weapon, When you kill someone Do you have to use it sometimes? If you want to live, of course, if you want Tonight the Black Disciples They accept that we go up their lair The journey is risky. You have to cross into enemy territory, Don't pass by, They can shoot us. I want to stay alive. Before getting out of the car, this gang member shows off a dozen It's yours ? For money. You sell ? Do you earn your living? Yes. The Black Disciples will meet again The evening will allow us to obtain The gang rents this apartment We couldn't buy drugs, We sleep here It's a dump. A play, On the program for the evening, It's between the smoke of the joints that a young boy barely 16 years old us What is that ? It's yours ? Yes. Is this your weapon? Yes. What kind of weapon is it? A Glock 40. Why To ward off rivals. Who are the enemies? They say BDK and that kind of bullshit, What He got smoked. By Black Disciples? Yes. Nowadays, No but you say too much man. But there is a good chance This spiral of violence, some have managed to end it They now live in ghettos, North of the city, there is a neighborhood translation, the city of boys, but not the bad boys, Welcome to Hollywood Beach, A wind of lightness Here everyone We are very far from the war a few kilometers away. You go sometimes No. Here, We come here almost every Every weekend? Yes. All those muscular boys, inhabit This is their neighborhood. four streets A haven of peace where a majority lives Here, no graffiti, community symbol Colorful metal pylons In a beautiful apartment, Can we do Sure. Sean, Please excuse me, but he knows that Sean arrived here ten years ago He started as a doorman he became the boss It's always like that ? Every morning. If you don't, Someone might look at me and tell me: &quot;You're not well Sean, is always very concerned Feel beautiful done Hi ! Have fun ! Today is a big day. Chicago is the first city to have conceded an entire district So, inevitably, Today is June 30, Almost a million people Sexy and good-natured atmosphere. The only troubles made, A handful Shame on you, you're perverts, but those of the devil. Shame on you ! The Bible is very clear, We are here to warn them that if they don't turn But in this neighborhood They can As you can see them, How many are they ? They are between In Boys Town no one comes to invade If they are so powerful, it is thanks For example, Padqueen, heterosexual, He is the governor The homosexual community Gay Pride is the perfect time A little further, She also prepares Show up for city hall. She counts on the votes active support. But whoever wins it's him, Tom Tenet, Elected hands down in 2003. He's gay and never fails to call back in all the city. It's amazing to have such support right in the heart of my neighborhood. If homosexuals collect is that they succeeded Where the police failed It's hard to imagine that 20 years ago, most dangerous Welcome to Rose Koz. Can you hear me well? Jim is one of the first homosexuals Follow me inside. His bar, I invited some friends Jim bought this location in the mid 80's. At the time, it was a grocery store Today, To tell you the neighborhood was not the great neighborhood People were afraid to live especially in this building. I came here because I knew I said to myself and then I will attack A risky bet looked like this, run by a fearsome Puerto Rican gang, The then mayor doing renovation At a cost of millions of dollars in 10 years, gay entrepreneurs one of the trendiest dates Every weekend in Boy's Town, come to party. On a single street, around thirty bars who evicted the people Without violence or weapons, made the gangs disappear, Sean, him, But to last in Boy's Town, He understood it well. Ladies. To fill his nightclub twice a week, he spends $1,500 We also make people laugh during our shows with comedies, But the best show, You will know all our secrets, We can't show that An hour later, on stage, Once again, While the party at the other end of town, In a church in the southern districts, A young gangster was executed As tradition dictates, with his photo in his memory. Families and friends I love him so much. I think of him everyday. He was 26 years old, was father He belonged to the Gangster Disciples, There are many today Last year gang war In Chicago last year, than in American troops Deaths Today, is that among these victims, often very young. In South Chicago, there is a neighborhood where mothers These three women each have Every Friday, they give each other their war memorial. My son, Thomas Lee is there. Marcia lost her son Thomas, My son, Pamela's son Darel, that's the picture over there. Alicia's son A total of one hundred Families are fed up. They display teenagers Children like Heaven. Even babies, What are the places home, church and school. Pamela's son My son Darrel, it was on the step I'm mad I don't even know who killed my son, against the one who made it and all those who These women are not done The carnage continues. Today is the ninth of July, in this hospital, a little boy The drama, The whole parish is mobilized Hello everyone. Pastor Wallace organizes who thinks here That's why we're all The little boy's name is Jayden, shot in the stomach and leg, under respiratory assistance. The drama Jayden was playing with some buddies when two rival gangsters the child That's why I came here Jayden's mother, Jasmine, The whole city of Chicago How is he doing ? He is fine. His condition is stable. It's better. For those who haven't heard, The press no longer reports the shootings But when a child is touched, It's a five-year-old child who was playing You can't even walk around with children in a park So where can you go? You can't stay in your garden Without being afraid It's important to tell people innocent victims, Everyone is affected Frankly, Supported by her family, Jasmine spent without knowing Finally, the prayers It's almost a miracle, The family still lives The neighborhood is apparently quiet. Today, Jayden is better. I already have this Spiderman. He seems to be doing well. The doctors Nope, It's not the doctors To save him, the doctors had to Jayden What worries it's the trauma Do you remember Do you remember Do you remember Jasmine would like her son what else I do not know anymore. I don't think he wants to talk about it, For Jayden's future, I'll be leaving soon. Where ? Where do you want to go ? Other than Chicago. Far ? Yes. More shootings? No. It's a terrible change. Everything is fine ? Yes. Today, more and more of these choose to flee Chicago,