I'm a third generation Montana farmer-rancher. I raise registered black Angus. I also sell about a thousand ton of hay. The operations of a new tractor are really nice. Modern equipment has a lot of sensors, electronic switches, these Powershift But during the busy season, the tractor kept shutting down for no reason. It was weird, it would just randomly shut down. And so I thought I changed the fuel filter. But it kept doing it. So then I finally called our John Deere he said, &quot;Really the only way a computer and download the error codes.&quot; And I said, &quot;All right, &quot;Oh, no, we don't do that.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, I'll rent it. How much does it cost to rent it?&quot; &quot;No, we don't rent it.&quot; Well, I had hay ready to bale, because if you get a little rain, He says, &quot;I can't get to you for a week.&quot; They aren't going to give me the tools I was stuck. John Deere is costing farmers and ranchers billions of dollars in lost income. And what John Deere is doing affects you It has officially happened. Authorization denied. A repair shop like mine, we're charging Almost a whole entire paycheck just to swap out some handlebars. it breaks something in the phone. come on. Why is it so hard to repair So this is the tractor? This is the culprit. it was just randomly shutting down. First thing we did was change and it didn't really resolve the problem. So I was stymied at that point. That's the only thing that you basically have the ability to do That's exactly right. Yeah. The first couple tractors didn't have any electric controls. It was all mechanical controls. But you know, those old tractors were pretty easy to diagnose And, pretty easy to fix those problems. When a modern John Deere tractor you can't diagnose the problem But John Deere won't let farmers Only an authorized dealership. And I said, Let's get it done.&quot; And he says, &quot;Well, but we're pretty busy. We might be able to do it a little faster And that faster ended up being? In farming, time is of the essence. We have windows of opportunity get our crop planted at the right time. Too early, you might damage the crop. you might damage the crop. And then on top of that, bale his hay quickly, he stood to lose On top of that, the repair wasn't cheap. The part itself was about 150, 160 dollars. And the labor to actually change But my bill was almost 5000. Service and repair work can yield John Deere five times John Deere's profits salary grew by 160%. Only took them, Is that something you could have done Yep, yep. As long as I had the software and the computer to reprogram the, So you need the software both to diagnose the problem Yeah, that's right. to install a new part, And it was invented by Apple, who's been They also glue in phone batteries, so you can't just swap them out And they use proprietary screws to make it Other companies have followed suit, our devices, kitchen appliances, video Harley Davidson Screamin' Eagle parts only, and only installed by Harley If you install anything your warranty is voided. ice cream machines, So, like John Deere, so only an authorized And stores which is why McDonald's Y'all wonder why the ice cream machine's still broken. For three generations, Walter and his family But now, John Deere isn't they're arguing that farmers So a quick primer on property rights. If I go into a bookstore and buy a book, I can do whatever I want with it. Read it. Lend it. Resell it. I can even take a power tool to it This is all thanks to a very old provision of copyright Once a copy is sold the publisher or the rights holder That's how we have public libraries It's why we have use record stores and a clear line between intellectual property But in the digital age, If I go to Amazon's a button But according to Amazon, I only licensed it. When you frame a transaction as licensing, the consumer rights we get with the First Instead, those rights remain who can put all sorts of restrictions So according to the contract I can only read this e-book if I have an active Amazon account. make copies of it, or resell sure I don't do any of those things that would stop me if I tried. It's like renting a book with an invisible That invisible string is called and you'll find it on almost every digital product: software, music, And if you figure out how to get around anyway, you'd be violating Companies are using the DMCA to justify like slapping subscription We dug into that So this book I can lend this one. I can't because I'd be violating It doesn't really make sense. But John Deere is applying who want to fix their equipment They told the Copyright Office for the copyrighted software They're paying for a license Do you think it's fair that farmers and ranchers to purchase a combine or a tractor We're not leasing it. We're, we're buying that. The gadgets that are in and the technology that runs that gadgets We thought when we bought that tractor that we bought that tractor if farmers don't own their tractors doesn't that call into question whether Car companies certainly think so. General Motors told the Copyright Office that the software in your vehicle So it's GM who owns the vehicle If you like taking your car to your local repair shop for oil changes, in the past, an oil change is as simple as, three times. Today, you're hooking up Bob Lane owns this independent He's seen firsthand how car manufacturers not just to make cars more safe but to monopolize the repair market. What I'll have to do is I will have to plug into Bob's technician is using BMW's proprietary software to finish up I am now connected to the vehicle. Each manufacturer has their own software, why your check engine light is on, Carmakers won't sell that software through expensive temporary subscriptions. 24 hours can be 200, 250 dollars. An annual fee could be 10,000 or 15,000 dollars, depending on the manufacturer. What we're really concerned about today When the technician tries sure enough, it didn't do it. Even after subscribing to BMW's software, because BMW has put on a software lock We should be able to reset that If you bring your car to me, and get 80% of the way through a diagnosis to complete that diagnosis the additional 20% and then I say, because we don't have the information.&quot; independent repair shops around Do you want to see your mom who was fixing cars go out of business? Because that's what's going to happen. Companies also lock out local repair shops by aggressively getting design patents that are most likely So if you crash your Ford Fiesta if there's a design patent on that fender, you're going to be able to get And Ford gets to charge These are all reasons up nearly 70% in the last decade. Repair monopolies don't just cost us Like for people that spend almost a whole year in bed And having to wait for authorized repairs can leave hospitals They don't want to give us tech support they don't want to sell us parts, and they don't want to give us For farmers and ranchers like Walter, repair monopolies exacerbate Farmers and ranchers, we have the highest And it's Equipment breaking down You can't do anything? That's a whole new level of stress. So how can we break up Well, three ways. The first is to enforce our existing Farmers have filed multiple class saying their repair monopoly violates The Justice Department says they support Commission has been investigating The FTC has already broken up Weber, and Westinghouse. if you use your local repair shop The FTC also got us our McFlurries back. they got the Copyright Office so that third party repair can circumvent cream machines And that's the second way to break up updating our outdated copyright laws. The Freedom to Repair Act so we can jailbreak all our machines But the most important thing we can do and force companies to sell products without going through the manufacturer. Laws like this are currently working The Right to Repair movement is gaining I bought it, but I'm kind of a slave to your operation. Is it more cost efficient to have it fixed You can do a charge port repair for 15. Yeah! Wow. Okay. Still, the legal battle has been tough. On one side, you have farmers, rights advocates, DIY On the other side, a group of companies And with all that money and lobbying, Microsoft was going around our members in the legislature tablets in Washington any longer To see that tug of war in action, let's see how it's playing out in the auto industry, where the fight over Right Why should only some people be able repair information Over the next decade, Congress to Repair bills for cars, but automakers lobbied fiercely, We just don't think there's a problem. until 2012. Massachusetts passed the nation's Very excited, very static. Automakers agreed to obey to avoid more costly battles. But their lobbying did The law didn't require car manufacturers that was transmitted wirelessly. Which today is how most new cars do it. And when Massachusetts car companies spent $25 million They ran ads like this one, showing a woman being stalked The message? Right to Repair laws will give That's a wild argument to make, so let's take a closer look at it. New cars are like smartphones on wheels. They're collecting really sensitive data and how fast we get there. And car companies use that data about us, like our genetic information That's creepy. Wish they wouldn't do that at all. But they're saying that with mechanics would also compromise But the Mozilla Foundation found that our information, with data breaches caused by their own mistakes, And here's the key part. Having exclusive access to all our vehicle That's why automakers are fighting right They want data monopolies. According car companies like how often you're braking and they sell it to data brokers companies, who then use it Wanting to maintain a data monopoly John Deere has spent millions of dollars This precision ag equipment that you're So are you planting corn? Are you planting soybeans? Are you planting wheat? These equipment manufacturers real time the quality of the crop, Real time aggregate data about which crops are going to hit the market They could actually manipulate the market with it. You know, about what's actually happening with it. Across the country, the fight over these eight states One of those is Massachusetts' updated which passed in 2020 with 75% of voters But automakers sued to block it, from being fully enforced. The most comprehensive law is Minnesota's. It grants the right to repair and home appliances, but it leaves out Colorado's law does cover farm And it, along with Oregon, So manufacturers can't use software or a local repair shop But a patchwork of state laws We need comprehensive federal Right which would remove software locks from your phone, laptop and other devices. Lawmakers have also introduced specifically for cars it's kind of therapeutic and fix that problem yourself. And that has been taken away from me. This is about 30 years old. It has around 12,000 hours on it. secondhand so that when it broke down he could troubleshoot it Pull it back three times. And then to the right twice. And then read the error code. With the error codes, Walter and his mechanic could figure out which he found on eBay. And this was an official John Deere part That's right, on eBay. Walter installed the new part himself No software, didn't have to reprogram the part. And the final repair bill? About 90 bucks. And I was able to do it myself. Thanks for watching The Classroom. We're always looking to tell more stories the economic systems What other issues Sound off in the comments