- You know, if you're there are plenty of things you probably the Jardin des Plantes with the world's coolest Dehillerin, that has a portrait Deyrolle, which which is incredible on or the Poilane bakery You can go downstairs and look at Now, when I was recently I found two desserts that were slightly different, something I was The first is Paris flan. It's essentially baked in a round crust Kids on their way home might stop at a bakery Absolutely terrific. And then oddly enough, Now, I don't like this dessert. It's too much booze, So I was at a restaurant They brought a muffin split in half, and they gave me and a big bowl of It was really terrific. So, let's go into here at<i> Milk Street</i> and figure out how to make One is Paris flan and - Funding for this series - MOWI salmon comes ready to season, or pre-seasoned An assortment of flavors MOWI Salmon. - We pass down traditions here. We create and connect. We enjoy special moments. Some simple, some grand. The heart of The heart of - On this trip to Paris, who are breathing new life One of them His father coulant au chocolat, or the original Now, it's a dessert for high-end pastry chefs, but it's really - (speaking French): - Next, I went to on Paris flan. - Dessert, When I have a tart it remembers me when buying a tart in a pastry shop sharing the tart on Sunday for after lunch, My name is Stephane Jimenez. I am from Paris. The flan, it's actually Most of the time, cooked on a pot, when it's boiling, you cook it again So it's more about cooking So, to make it, We mix the flour And when it's you add the rest You mix it a little bit, and then after you remove it and put it on the table The fraisage is to press on the dough with just like this. Finishing by hand, and put it in the fridge When you roll it, And you can use it right away to We bring it to a boil, the milk, the cream, and the vanilla beans At the same time, We mix the eggs with When the milk and the cream you add one-third and sugar and cornstarch, and then bring it back Never stop mixing, until it's boiling. Make sure it's very thick before you pour it When I put the cream I put it back in the fridge for ten, 15 minutes, on top of my cream. <i> Et voila,</i> That's the biggest thing I can recommend to people Just respect the recipe, it comes... perfect. - You know, I've been accused of making fun That being said, and had phenomenal food, and I met a guy, He introduced me You think pastry cream, Well, it's actually (chuckling): like, smiling, It really is light. It's absolutely, I think it's my number-one But it starts that's a little bit Now, if you have normally with an you might use, 14 to 16 tablespoons But we're going to use eight. And first we're just a tablespoon The next thing and I've said this over is we're not going to until it has By the way, who the person was that ridiculous concept. It's<i> The Boston This is the 1941 edition. And Fannie Farmer, &quot;Until shortening no larger than peas.&quot; So I get to blame But the French cut They do that because There's less and it's much easier and you get It's not as flaky, So we're gonna (whirring) ...it looks like and it turns I do not want to see pea-sized (whirring) So now we need liquid, and a quarter cup of water. So we're adding but it's still fairly lean. (whirring) Okay, so I'm going to Now, at Amazonia, which is It means you push the dough with the heel of your hand bring it back, and you get a nice texture and a little bit But this way, Use the plastic. If you're not good I'd definitely do this Let this sit in the fridge If you are pretty good just give it an hour or two and then we'll come back and we'll start to roll it out. So while I was in the kitchen they use pastry rings in Paris-- And when he fitted the dough, it's sitting on when you put it into all that heat can This was really And you can find this but obviously most people So we decided to And this actually you will get a So here we have the dough. You want to take this out before you roll it out. I'm going to beat it up What I like to do when is I want to start with my left hand here, and then bring this around a quarter turn, okay? And then turn the dough So you get out So you can start from Find places where You always want to leave So if a recipe-- this recipe says a 13-inch round, I'd probably go to 14, just so you So what does that look like? Well, let's take a look. And this is a nice lean dough, as I said, which means The more fat, the stickier things are. So... okay. Put that down in. So now we're going to You want to press down into the corners. It looks a little messy Don't panic, So now we just want So we're just going to or you can do it Okay, so now we have We can cut the dough. So now we're going to deal with We're not going to The way to avoid pre-baking, unless you have is you need to freeze something like this. So you can put it in or you can refrigerate it, But it needs at least But that freezing reduce the amount of to give it time to set up. Let me give you you can remember anytime you want, It's three cups of dairy-- let's say two cups of milk, a half cup of sugar, a quarter cup of cornstarch, and three eggs. We're going to double that. So we're going to use a full four cups And we're going to use And we're going to heat this up and bring it to a simmer. So we have a full cup of sugar, half a cup of cornstarch. This is vanilla paste. Now, this recipe uses vanilla extract at the end. You always want to add at the end with a liquid but we like to use or a paste. They're a nice, strong flavor. You're going to use Here, we're going to and then we're going the tablespoon of vanilla If you don't have powder just double the extract and put it in at the end. We're also going to add and the two yolks Now, if we were just going directly into six cups of you'd have a chance of which you don't want to do. We're going to add about to the egg-sugar-cornstarch and whisk it in This also helps to dissolve the sugar in the cornstarch. So you want this You don't want it You want to stir, you want to whisk. I would do it gently. Now, once you start to give it about again, gently whisking. And that's it. this is about 181, 185 right now. You don't want it to go Okay, we're good. What you really put this through Now, here's a pastry chef taught me, which is to use a ladle. Because obviously, the bottom of a ladle just like the inside and it does a great job pressing something And we're going to So here is the frozen crust. By the way, if you're watching this, there's You should be really Maybe I just or something, I don't know. And I'm just going to and smooth it out. So you'll notice that there is a little bit between the filling and the top, which is what you want, because it will rise a little. Okay. So now this goes for about So the surface a little bit of skin. it's not going to There is a little skin which is going to prevent from puffing way up over So we get asked this Does it matter-- that does if you have a dark pan So if you have a we would bake this at 400 degrees. If you have a light-colored pan we're going to bake it Then since we have a light pan, we'll finish it off at 350 If we'd had a darker pan, we'd let that go 40, 45. So, it does matter. And we have different based on the pan. So, I just have to ask, are you excited? Because I'm excited. That comes off nicely. Here's a trick which I thought Like, how do you cut when you have a crust and then you also Well, he takes cuts across like that, so you get the crust started. So we're going to cut down, and just through the skin a little bit like that. And then, go to our backup. Now, get down on your knees... and praise Stephane Jimenez because this is as heavenly as it's going to get It almost just so this makes absolutely I know, but it's very, very light, has a wonderful texture. Maybe it's a function of cooking it on the stovetop, and then cooling it down and then putting it Maybe that double cooking but it's a very than the pastry cream you get This is how life A Paris flan pastry cream Sounds basic, but it is heavenly. - Babas au rhum are small, individual brioche-like cakes heavily soaked At Restaurant Astier in Paris, we had a lighter, and that's what we brought back So first, we're going to We have added orange which gives it a nice but also kind of takes down a little bit So I'm going to take Those are going And with any syrup, this is about a cup-- And I'm also going to add some of the juice Orange and rum are so it works And that's about We're going to cook this and we've reduced it down to about one cup. So now that the sugar and this is reduced down, I'm going to take out and chop that up So this is because it has I'm going to chop because it's going and we want it to really So put that aside, and then I'm going to So we're just going to and set it aside. So now we're going to make This dough is very and you might be a little but it's very easy So I'm going to show you So I've got some I'm going to add some water. I'm going to Okay, and set that aside. In here, some sugar... yeast... and salt. So I'm just going to (whirring) Then I'm going (whirring) Then we're going to kind of So I've let that go Now we're going to add and that's going to smooth and then we're going to This is an enriched dough, you would often add butter, oil, But you want to add it slowly and let each piece before you add the next. So you really want room temperature butter here. Cold butter is It's not going to so it has to be Now that all of our butter we're going to let this go because we really want to because these are but you want to make sure to hold them Okay, for about Now, there's a couple of things You want your dough You can see it's the edge of the bowl And when I pick it up, it's going to leave hold together If it breaks immediately, then you're not there yet. So now that I know that I'm going to add and run the mixer for just to incorporate This smells amazing, by the way. It smells like Christmas; the bread, the orange, This would be a great little holiday treat, Okay, I think we're good. So now, clean the dough off of get rid of that, take the bowl off make sure everything I'm going to cover the bowl and let it sit at so it will double in volume for an hour to So this dough has been rising We're almost ready I want to show you This is two tablespoons It seems like but you want to make sure so that you can pull them This makes eight cakes. So what I'm doing is the four cups that are So that leaves but gives some air so they bake nice and evenly. So that's why Turn it around. Four... And then put them in one more time. All right, fill these about two thirds This dough is very stretchy That is how because that's what makes So what you use a big spoon, to help take So... use the other spoon. Or honestly, if you want to oil or butter your hand, you can actually So it is a how much is in each one. So you might have to go back and take some out of one, I can see these are so I'm going to do that. Don't be afraid So you can see It's kind of messy, but that's why But they're going So now we're going to spray some plastic wrap cover these, and let them rise until they double in size. So these have been rising So these are gonna go with the rack for about All right, I wish you could it smells like This never gets old. Look at it's so pretty. So we're gonna let these cool and then I'm going to because I want to brush them These have cooled for I'm going to put them And then, that really kind of I don't know if but something you is when you brush and they get so shiny Just a really nice So we're going to take and we're going to brush And then we're sit on the rack for another if you want to Or you can let them put them in and then you could wrapped in at 350 for about if you want Okay, and now we'll make So when you're you want to make So I've got And I'm going to with two tablespoons So just enough sweetness and a little bit of rum And I'm just just for about (whirring) Okay, so that looks You want your cream as your little cakes. You can serve these warm or at room temperature. I kind of like them warm. And then I'm going to take about a tablespoon and drizzle it on So that's going to but it's not going to be We're going to add a little and there you have it. A beautiful, classic dessert. Mm. That syrup, it's got but it's not The cake is soft. A little bit of orange zest Delicious. This is another show-stopping You can get this recipe and all the recipes at MilkStreetTV.com. - Recipes and episodes are available along with shopping lists, and step-by-step videos. Access our content anytime to change the way you cook. - The new<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> and includes every recipe From cacio e pepe to Brazilian-style carrot cake the<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> offers bolder, fresher, Order your copy of for $27, Call 855-MILK-177 - Funding for this series - MOWI salmon comes ready to season, or pre-seasoned In an assortment of flavors MOWI Salmon. - We pass down traditions here. We create and connect. We enjoy special moments. Some simple, some grand. The heart of The heart of