Scattered across America are dozens of empty of their occupants' misery and despair and even murder. These are America's abandoned prisons, and the country would shock and horrify the most Philadelphia's Eastern State Penitentiary by Quakers in 1829, the prison remained open 1970s. It should come as no surprise that the prison places in America - with its grand and impressive ceilings and imposing guard towers topped looks haunted. And there's plenty of real darkness in the to lend credence to the idea that the tortured abandoned cells and corridors. Ghost stories have haunted Eastern State Penn and even former inmates reporting eerie encounters Numerous witnesses have heard ghostly footsteps supposedly empty corridors. Others have reported seeing shadowy figures blocks, or glimpsing the outline of a guard Gary Johnson was a locksmith who worked at One day, while he was working to unjam the suddenly felt overcome with a sense of fear He felt an unseen force grip him, and he was Then, as he stood there frozen and terrified, ghostly faces, one of which seemed to be beckoning Some of the darker parts of the prison's on the building. The prison's earliest inmates were apparently efforts to reform them, and more than a few walls. Unfortunate prisoners were subjected to the an iron collar placed in the inmate's mouth behind their back - the slightest inevitable to gouge and tear into the inmate's tongue. Others were doused in cold water and hung until their skin froze. Some experienced the horrors of the Mad Chair, into straight coat-style, often so tightly be completely cut off, sometimes to the point But the most disturbing horror stories - and the prison's dungeon-like basement. Deep underground inside the stone fortress' were subjected to the most inhumane form solitary The Hole was dark and dank, with no bed, no Completely isolated with no human contact The Hole. With this kind of darkness in its history, have reported hearing tortured wails, piercing supposedly empty and abandoned building. But don't take their word for it - the facility so brave tourists can visit and see for themselves they dare. While a history of torture is sure to leave executions is sure to create the perfect environment killed, only to return. Built in 1876 on the outskirts of the tiny of West Virginia State Penitentiary resembles The prison housed thousands of the country's history, often under abysmal conditions. The prison was extremely overcrowded, often 5 foot by 7 foot cell. The inmates of Virginia State Penitentiary them lost their lives behind the chilling 94 men were executed on the site - 85 of them executed by the electric chair. The 1931 execution of Frank Hyer was particularly prisoners no longer being a public spectacle. Hyer was set to be hanged, which, at the time, weight and drop distance to ensure a quick But in Hyer's case, the calculations were him, he fell with such force that he was instantly and horrified onlookers. Aside from the many deaths by execution, many of fellow prisoners, and possibly even a guard Countless inmates were stabbed with improvised to die in their cells. Since its closing in 1995, Virginia State haunted sites in the entire country. Most of the activity reported by staff and the most dangerous inmates were kept. Witnesses report seeing shadowy figures and the area, even when they are the only people Other reports come from The Hole and the Sugar by the inmates when the weather was too bad Some of the prison's most brutal and violent for guards to keep watch and intervene, and In these dank subterranean spaces, witnesses things, but also experience an overwhelming watched. One reporter got more than he bargained for debunk the rumours of paranormal activity. The reporter was given a thorough tour of gruesome history, before he was left alone As he explored the empty corridors and abandoned and was starting to feel more confident as and the Sugar Shack. Again, he didn't see or hear anything, but and a sense of intense paranoia. He decided to head out into the yard to regroup explorations. While outside, he turned back to look at the and just as he looked up, he saw a shadowy windows. After that experience, the reporter was unable and he left hours before his midnight deadline. Some prisons have always been a sad and horrifying positive note before descending into chaos, The Ohio State Reformatory in Mansfield, Ohio, The Shawshank Redemption, but it's infamous activities. Opened in 1896, the Ohio State Reformatory criminals who were too old for the juvenile a sentence at the notorious Ohio State Penitentiary When it first opened, the prison was praised reforming first-time offenders. But, before long, the prison would descend known for rampant abuse, torture and even By the 1930s, Ohio State Reformatory had become Despite a lawsuit filed by former inmates the prison remained open until 1986. Since then, rumours of paranormal activity prison is haunted by the tormented spirits officials. Witnesses have reported paranormal activity home of their "local control" cell - AKA Here, difficult inmates were locked away in on end. Visitors report hearing tortured screams and hearing disembodied footsteps and seeing unexplainable Others claim to have overheard a whispered indistinct to make out, but too insistent alone in the building. It's not just the prison's inmates that farm boss and his wife and daughter were kidnapped their mistreatment within the prison's walls. The boss and his family were shot to death, executed in the prison. And this was not the only tragic death of have occurred in the prison's history. One of the most frequently witnessed apparitions Helen. Helen was the wife of one of the prison's As was common at the time, the Warden and an apartment in the prison's administration Helen met a tragic end in that very apartment, in a closet, hit the floor and went off, fatally According to numerous witnesses, Helen's and visitors can often catch a whiff of her Helen's death wasn't the only tragedy years after her death, another warden had With all of this tragedy and misery in one Reformatory is considered one of the most Prisons may be notorious for the kinds of perfect fodder for paranormal activities, police stations have their own dark history haunting. Maxwell Street Police Station in Chicago Illinois stations in the entire country. The station was built in 1889 in the neighborhood neighborhood that was home to a large population It was also the turf of some of the city's Brothers, close associates of the legendary The station was well known for extreme corruption look the other way, or, in some cases, to But it's the station's basement dungeon of paranormal activity that continue to this The dungeon was a place of brutality and torture, the dark, dank holding cells would not leave For decades, witnesses have reported hearing and the ominous rattling of handcuffs and The station closed in 1997, and is now used Prisons in general are certainly not pleasant with their histories of misery and despair, many of the country's prisons are some of If you thought this video was fascinating, this one called "Scary Urban Legends That like this other video, instead.