Join us at the Commonwealth Club. Hello, everyone, and welcome to this evening's program I am pleased to be here in person, finally to open tonight's program I also want to welcome the many people around the Bay Area In fact, I know there are people in Boston My name is Ken Broad. I'm a founding member of the Jackson and a proud supporter I'm particularly thrilled although the topic is divisive, and people who live here know that. I'm a longtime fan of the Commonwealth to convene the community Thus, I'm particularly delighted in-person public programs here at the And you can see It's absolutely beautiful. I encourage you all to learn and online offerings at WWE Tonight's featured speaker while you're all here Michael's new book Cities has been an international sensation since it was published late last fall. The book and its arguments about crime and homeless policies have attracted the eyes of the world on the moral tragedy in the streets of San Francisco. The dystopian streetscape why my firm moved recently to the Presidio, one of the most important concepts that I'm hoping Michael will This is well-intentioned behavior that Pathological altruism with what moral philosopher Peter San Francisco desperately needs to replace with more effective altruism. This is Michael's latest book Michael is the founder and president based in nearby Berkeley and prosperity for all with a particular Mike will be in conversation Melissa has a long history political analyst and is one of the club's So with that, I am pleased to welcome Cain to the stage Thank you. Hi. Hello, everyone. As you have heard repeatedly, This is the book I have many questions So don't hesitate to fill out throughout the program Michael Shellenberger. It's a pleasure to be here. It's really wonderful I first want to start by thanking the Commonwealth Club I consider it a real honor I also very delighted to have my wife, Helen Lee is here with us. You may remember her and my son Joaquin, But most importantly, to the fact that many of the characters characters from the book are here, sharing their time And I'm hoping that each of them And please Tom Vicki, I see you there. I think we may have lost. We may have lost that may not have made it, So this is this book was for San Francisco. It's a book for liberals and progressives. It's really, of course, for everybody I had many motivations to write this book. first and foremost, I am just devastated emotionally I think it's profoundly unethical. I think it's profoundly unnecessary. There's no reason for it. I was delighted to share stories which I think is a world class example from late stage addiction how you deal with folks I also wanted to answer many questions that I had, There's no question so much suffering to exist, sparked a significant amount of upset But I am a strong believer of psychotherapy, which suggests that when you don't deal with difficult, they have a way of ruining your life And so the purpose of San Francisco, I feel, has already been achieved, Obviously, I'm continuing, or maybe not. Obviously, journalism on this, continue But for me, just the fact that I can be here I think shows that we've already made So thank you very much, I know many of you will be And Melissa, thanks so much I be honest, Michael, when I saw the name and they asked me to do this, I was like, I live here. I can talk. I can say, mean things about my city, But but then I did some research resident and someone with a long history And I don't know if it should matter, It felt like you were, you know, And so can you talk a little bit about the way you approach the issue Sure. So let's see. I was raised by two very liberal parents, four liberal parents, Both sides come from which is sort of an anti-government, I was a very liberal kid who became very radical I went to go help the Sandinistas I've done field work as a journalist. I've really been doing journalism Helped Lula helped Hugo Chavez. That's something I have in common with our district attorney Come out of the radical left. I moved to. I went through a Quaker school where I I moved to San Francisco in 1993 which is an anti imperialist We went to Cuba together in 1993, put I fought for criminal justice juveniles out of jails and prisons. I did work for George 1990s, which is something that I talk and best known. I really spent the last 20 years and climate change in particular, to work on in the nineties. And so part of my motivation was, I thought we were advocating solutions and to the drug war alternatives And so when overdose deaths in the year 2017, that was when I kind of something seems like it went wrong But I also had remembered that in the year doing this in the year, 2000 So the increase of death and last year, everyone may know that it was 100,000 and drug poisoning, And I wanted to figure out what that was, there are some questions about identity, I still consider myself a liberal. I don't consider myself a progressive. I did recently changed my party But I think if you read San Francisco, it will see that It basically argues to do what and really what has done since I exclude the United And that includes Netherlands, All do basically the same thing, but their cultures, but loved ones, their sick family members Well, one of the things about your book have criticized, but you really can't deny And I felt like it was actually important because I know I can't be the only one with your spouse We go, Am I just getting older? Or is it getting worse out there like you It's not always obvious, right? You walk down the street and things That didn't bother you yesterday. Am I just like, get off my lawn now? Like, I don't know if it's there. But one of the important things is that it shows it's not just us. We're not just getting older. It is actually getting worse So can you talk about your decision you know, your opinions Absolutely. So San Francisco, and similar to my last that I consider to be complete books how to think about the environment, to all the big questions how to think about crime, drugs You should be able to get answers in San Francisco, You're absolutely right. So homelessness increased in California. The number of people that are that are categorized as homeless even as it declined 18% The certainly the number of people in San Francisco has increased. I also point out that the word homeless It was actually a word groups of people including a mother with two kids problem or mental illness, that we're combining that person or opioid addiction and has quit working, often because of their addiction And then we're combining that person or a severe mental illness, So that's why there's chapters So the book, yeah, the book definitely. It's not attempting. I always point out, when they write books or even journalists, that they want to write a book I think if there's anything original I just think that it's a complete In some ways, I'm trying to trick people by kind of Same thing with Apocalypse. Never. It's sort of an environmental textbook or a sort of a textbook in here, you know, with sugarcoated set, It's not super wonky and dry. Well, you certainly do and I'm so excited Anyone who's read remarkable and your stories you know, are what gives it color, and you So everyone introduce yourselves they're really great. So you do weave in their stories as well. Now, one of the things you do talk about degree, is a substance one of the studies that you cite statistic of substance abuse or mental illness But you sort of say that's that we should look beyond that for for who the homeless people are by So the first piece I wrote, well, arguing that the governor to be able to just build a lot of housing and that a lot of people emailed me this is not just about housing, And I was like, But even I had been sort of caught framing where the word homelessness makes fundamentally about housing. So then I went and did a second report, folks that work on Skid Row, of unsheltered street addicts, people And the first person I interviewed, would you say He said 100%. And I was like 100%. That seems really extreme. And he's like this you can't afford the rent, you don't come here So I thought, Well, maybe that guy A very I did those. That was Andy Bales, by the way, I interviewed us a much more progressive, harm named Susan Partovi, who actually end up And I called her up and I said, Well, you think are suffering She was like, It's 100% like, there's nobody here So yes, you're right. I mean, look, if you go up to people either camping on a sidewalk, and you're like, Why are you here? I mean, first of all, it's shocking that will acknowledge I mean, the other issue is that people with mental illness often That's in psychotic states or meth or other mental illness. So there's a lot of people And then and then I think there's just not And so they don't want to be admitting to be doing illegal drugs I think the other issue is just that often and they want something from the person So they don't want to give that reason there's stigma against it. So I always point out, look, I I mean, I have not been able who was not mentally ill Maybe that person exists. There's certainly people but for the most part, people They do what millions of other people which is they move out of state, They find other means. And so I think it's a real disservice because of their addiction, mental illness because they simply couldn't It may be that they couldn't afford they couldn't afford the rent because of their addiction and quote unquote disaffiliated their addiction Well, what are the other things And it's something in the activist circles for a while which is like we focused And maybe we need to also engage building and really just sort of triage for lack of a better word as opposed everybody an apartment and got a lot of other difficulties So you talk about that Yeah, that I'm most proud of in this book so it interesting, as this book So the interviews were almost entirely Zoom and Zoom is such an interesting way to do interviews because first of all, it has a strong a lot of intimacy to face with somebody it's And the best thing is that like once you're people forget that they're interviewing and they'll just tell you anything. They'll tell you the truth and that And so, yeah, I mean, in this book, radical left advocates for housing, on the record that this is being driven I have the national homelessness advocates San Francisco has been doing, more people suffering from addiction and I found very progressive long, long standing homelessness provider the original wave of homelessness was because of the crack epidemic, together before doing this book. So this is a book that much more than Apocalypse Never, This is a book where I really wanted and I know you're going to ask about it, so I'm just going to go ahead The New York Times claims any homeless people, I mean, it's an incredible audacity. Audacious lie. Have you interviewed hundreds of homeless What I did do is showed who literally lived I'm a trained and I'm a Ph.D. anthropology dropout. I quit grad school, I respect the people that live And so San Francisco relies that were done and some of the best but certainly homeless addicts are done There's like three major ethnography, so I did end up quoting But for me, that was just a way of showing that had lived in encampments I certainly interviewed but I wanted to pay respects including the folks that I really disagree who had done that work of the people that live on the street. So did you interview How did you do? No, of course not. No, no, no, no. I would go to the Tenderloin. I went to Tenderloin, Skid Row, the blade. We also happened living in Berkeley near my office, The correct word that we say But the one of the first things was that the Europeans called them open and there's a paper called Open from five European cities, and it looks at Vienna and Zurich and people. To this day, because of The Wire, on, for example, in San Francisco, which was what they called an open by the city of Baltimore where they sort of But Amsterdam did do that. That's true. But then they shut it down. And it's something I don't think quite understood are They think that Amsterdam But what you discover is that those five They all shut them down. They all did the exact same way. A combination of police So anyway, so yes, place to go and interview large So why isn't it Berkeley Ziggo? Why? Why are you coming I'm just kidding. No, actually, we did. Talking about the eighties talk about in the book, all the time is I'm not defending Ronald Reagan, but a lot of people blame Yeah. And so you do talk about, like you say, Yeah. In reality, it was a Democrat who got of psychiatric hospitals rolling And so if you could talk a little bit and sort of the response to that because is, yeah, Reagan shut everything down Have you heard it since the book came out? Not recently. No. Maybe you think I might have fixed it? Yeah. Is the first thing that you get progressives about what's going on. And of course, you kind of go Oh yeah, I mean, Reagan, I mean, naturally, it was Reagan. But then you're kind of like, Well, He wasn't the president, And hasn't California you know, a supermajority And don't we have a 30 billion dollar So how could this possibly be So of course, it's not true, by the way, who I who I think deserves both when he was governor and early seventies and then also But I mean, I think So there's two things that people They blame him and they blame him for cutting the housing The the story of the closure of America's well known, but basically, you get what I think the first thing to say about it is that people with schizophrenia are the most difficult folks My aunt had schizophrenia. It was. It's just Before we put folks mental illness they were many times being chained up in their basements, Bad things happen to folks The hospitals were this big, progressive You get through the Great Depression, The funding was cut, their staffing. There were staffing shortages come out of Life magazine of the terrible conditions Many of the Quaker activists The hospitals wanted to see more funding but there was two things going on. There was some sense in which it would be better to treat which is still the case And there was also some idea treatment from folks. So those two things combined that basically resulted Reagan certainly had a hand in it, It was really me is really coming from progressives and then to prohibit the mandatory So ACLU continues to be the main group that is preventing the mandatory With mental illness the budget cuts we went and pulled They deserve huge credit. When pulled the original budget it did slightly go down, when Reagan was president, You could blame him for not increasing it, cut the budget for housing. And actually, there's a question here How has this book been received Because these are the people to do something about the homeless problem Have you talked to elected you know, other public officials who who might be able to maybe move toward more shelters Or do some of the other things Yes, so well, of course, I interviewed several members of the several folks I know that several members of the board I had one member of the Board of Supervisors read it. And we had a little bit of an exchange on Twitter about it. You know, because I I defended Mayor London Breed I supported and and I think, helped for her, announcing a crackdown on open use in mid-December . I was very happy about it. I was on Twitter just two weeks ago about the situation that they should be supportive But then last late last week, who said that the the linkage center, which was supposed to be linking people was also offering a supervised drug site And so Layton Woodhouse, and I went and went in, didn't We just said we would like a tour. Indeed, smoking and other drug use I found I was very annoyed by that, both that there is some amount of supervised much more limited into the kind of recovery and treatment And then we went back. Or then sorry, two journalists went back on SAT or Saturday, I believe. And then they going on in a super in this city I just published that yesterday. I find that disturbing. It's easier for old to go and buy fentanyl in a city run site right now than it is to go and get into a bar I don't know that That's not what's going on in Amsterdam. I was disappointed by that. I think that if the city really thought then they would have been transparent They still, I don't know I have not seen the city even So I am annoyed right now and they have not responded So we're in a very dynamic situation with the drug dealing I mean, what was what about aside from Was it, you know, condoned So we have 30 minutes of video journalist named Jenny Hsiao. I don't know if Jenny's here, Yeah, there she is. She's embarrassed. But Jenny Shao, who got a CO byline with me on the piece that we published shot extraordinary video who sold the fentanyl and also City contractors, including Paul Harkin of Glide Memorial and Gary McCoy of Health I think it's important to actually explain They were the senior contractors. There were feet away from the drug deal I don't have proof that they saw of the drug of the person who we who our reporters saw sell as they're checking it with both McCoy and Harkin So for me, that would constitute So we are now fully and we're into supervised drug dealing. And my concern at some point why don't we just provide free fentanyl I mean, that seems like that we need to have a conversation the right way to do this, It's not what Amsterdam does, certainly where the police around The police, I believe, are There is security. But this is a safe place, supposedly for people to use. Drugs use fentanyl, also, meth was we have so I just think this is scandalous and I'm like, actually kind of open to my He says, Look, there's get off heroin, That's the traditional opioid And I was like, Well, And he was like fewer than 150. And I was like, Well, 150,000 people, that would be signed up So that 150 people that fewer than half of the Dutch government has put had already for many, many years to get on methadone a more independent life. And it didn't work, and they were like, It's better than sending them to prison But what we're doing in San Francisco does There was no amount of regulation It was just letting people buy And by the way, which is public plaza. And I made clear in our reporting that we have a public right They just commandeered Like when was there a debate around like, have that be a playground? Maybe we would rather not be with a place drug dealers working for a dangerous Well, crazy. I know that. Well, and you do make the point you are, you know, in sort of dispelling why people are in San Francisco, you talk about that and then some people But you argue that it's not our services It's actually drugs. Yeah, I mean, I'm not saying it's And by the way, I do think I think the fact that it gets freezing of unsheltered, But I point out that homelessness declined over the last decade. So warm You do get a lot of people for the cash, welfare But yeah, you have the amount of public camping And I think the other big discovery I made and I'm very proud to have gotten it is just that the biggest opponents sufficient shelter have been housing first that that money be spent on housing, rather than the kind of sprung that we normally associate But yeah, I mean, I think like, when you, you know, you know, it's Tracy Helton Mitchell I think one of the best addiction when she was deciding where to go and she was trying to figure out she she's like, either and she came to San Francisco. So it's pretty well known that San People can purchase drugs at low cost and use them openly Well, you also point out to the New York, actually, I'm sorry as housing first focus a pretty decent number of shelter Has a different situation that we have as So to have this ability to sort of triage Absolutely. So, at least before COVID, New York So it's it's not rocket science. I do think people, I do think I don't think people have a right in the most expensive real estate That just doesn't make any. That's just bizarre. Like, you know, you read the Communist Manifesto, everybody gets their own apartment This is completely twisted. But I do think that I think we have an obligation And you know, when you go when you and I'd be like, you know, in a psychotic state, either from drugs And he was like, You got to go to shelter. And I was like, I was like, Of course we do. We also have psych beds available. If they need psychiatric beds and you know, and we have residential care. So they have that. I mean, talk about a little quick fix solutions is like the new fad now it's like you have to just like And so we say just to simplify it, housing earned. You can get your own room but you have to earn it through progress quitting drugs, if you suffer from some underlying There is some sense of, the Dutch would always say, There should be something that people but also something that they could lose And that's our system is just not. We're nowhere close to having that set up. Well, one of the things you do point out really want it to be with no strings. Really nothing to, you know, You don't have to take your meds Right? Or, you know, to be like. And so that was really surprising, be surprised to know that that's that's It's not like housing for people and can kind of demonstrate that they can, It's just housing. And here's the key. And that's that's really that's My friends and I were like, what? That's that's kind of crazy. Were you surprised that people would look No, we just need to give everybody Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, I was struck by my Dutch He struck me as too tough Like, there was a guy. We were interacting He was talking about how he had been in the last shelter he was in, he was telling his terrible story That's why he couldn't go to a shelter. And Rene was like, No, no, he's psychotic. You probably know that was true. And he's like, He has to go to a shelter. He actually let him sleep on the park but then he would go back the next night I was struck by how harsh he was, but I understood more. It's like you're dealing with, like some of the most difficult So, yeah, Like, I try to I try to understand So I mentioned Harkin and McCoy the supervised drug dealing site in in the United Nations Plaza right now. What's going through their minds? They have in their minds and unsuccessful So there's this idea You can't make people, you know, you can't make people go clean, They have to have to decide I agree with that. But that doesn't mean that you should then be giving them everything You can then sort of be like, Yeah, you can have an apartment That's a completely reasonable thing Somebody also happens to be They need somebody to say, Look, but there's some that's literally viewed And what I point out is that they're in the grip of what This idea that you can classify people in the world and to the victims should be That's not how anybody else does it. It's a peculiar ideology, in my view. But it's a deeply political ideology with and it helps to explain right now in the streets. Well, on that note, what did you call that that you talk about in the book? And sort of this this idea that you you're Maybe. I don't think anyone questions But but that it's actually not helpful. Yeah. So and that gets to the title. I mean, it is a harsh title. The book's a harsh title and the book is the folks on the street or addiction, But I do think that there's a kind of about only wanting to supposedly help means not asking for anything, not requiring anything, including So, you know, folks living on the street, They're violating laws against public campaign, violating against public drug use, Normally we would enforce laws. Equally, that's the way our system is supposed We don't decide not to enforce laws that they're victims in some way, That's not something that is consistent with our enlightenment So the idea that you would do that, I think it has sick outcomes. At the same time, You know, it's like. But the, you know, the Beatles were wrong. Love is not all you need. You know, That's the next book. Love is not all. You need the sequel to San Fransicko. It's in there. There is a good question here. You said that from independent to I'm sorry, Yeah, And if you still consider yourself would you ever switch back Yeah. Well, I've mean, this issue of these I mean, in some ways they're like some of So after I finished the manuscript for San Francisco, affiliation because I was like, It's just too far gone. No regrets about that. I also wrote an essay called So then the question and I've been people So that was like, Basically, Michael is a conservative. They then. It's interesting. No one's actually provided What would it mean to be a conservative for my opponents I guess you would say, to tear down institutions that we have, they might be before constructing So my the work I was doing before this is I often defend nuclear power plants. I think that we should not shut down air pollution goes up, electricity prices It's a bad idea, and this really like, The haste with which progressives wanted since the sixties with a similar panic Yeah, the psychiatric hospitals, like they needed to be fixed, everybody from them. I mean, I was sort of like, I thought there had been but they were literally putting people on the street like they were taking them because they just decided I see that same thing behind We got to just shut down I mean, Vicki Beach here, like the Seattle city government precinct building in the Capitol Hill a several block area to out-of-town Like what's going on there? It's a kind of moral panic. So if that makes me a conservative like fine, I guess the reason I still I would sort of use the word liberal is We call the Enlightenment I think there's, you know, It's imperfect, And it's basically just, There are institutions including policing, I would now add rehab to that. You know, a functioning electrical grids and reliable electricity when you don't have it, as Texas proved So my my concern is so I kind of go, because I think in many ways, who are defending these what I would I think the traditional conservative that family has to be the bedrock I do. I love my family and it's, you know, it's and I think it's really important But I do think the difference is families are wonderful Not everybody has them And so that's why you have functioning public schooling, policing, psychiatry, Well, you know, we do talk about policing and we do have a question here on the connection between homelessness Sure. We are also in the midst of a massive You know, we just today, Jen Psaki, and very strongly said that President Biden supports an increase So we are really a long way when Mayor Breed of San Francisco, for defunding the police. As soon as they did They were, you know, I don't think a lot of progressives really are are understanding that there's been There's obviously some terrible police, people in any institution, they should, They should be moved out. But turns out that police And I think what for this book, one thing the evidence that policing prevents Policing And I say that very strong. We because there have been progressives, a month or so ago who just said outright That's absolutely absurd. Police do prevent crime and that we now know there's now for a variety of reasons, it increases homicides, it increases crime that simply having police presence reduces crime without arresting anybody. And the other thing in terms there's always shocks people. You can shut down open-air drug markets like the one that exists Without putting anybody in prison, without arresting anybody. That sounds totally shocking, where the police gather huge They then go to the drug dealers Look, we've got like a three ring We're going to send you to prison, outside in this area and you violate it worked really well in High Point So I think sometimes I go on Twitter I'll be like on Portugal. They arrest people I approved it because I had the head of the Portuguese and I put the clip on Twitter They don't put people in prison And I'm like, I'm like, Do you think a I think there's a lot of people that actually think arrests are the same Arrest to just to stop somebody You don't have to even So I think there's just a lot that people have not appreciated, And a fair amount of gaslighting But I guess what I would say when I when you interview they talk about the police roles, more roles in terms of dealing And then the social workers becoming And I think that's the right way that there's collaboration, emotionally intelligent, more needs to be asked of them. But also, we need social workers You definitely share some anecdotes this person was a real pain, get where I needed to go, And so, you know, harder social workers, what was what you said. We do have another question here. Somebody asks, I don't know if you know Mr. Shellenberger has already run for office in the governor's No longer. But will you ever run again for office? Yeah. And let me before let me just say I wanted to say which is that I feel like I finally, I feel like I've boiled down what I wanted if you don't want mass incarceration Nobody wants people in prison. If you can avoid it and you don't want mass homelessness There's three key And what's shocking to me We now have electronic monitoring. We've always had But yes, is it an invasion of privacy Yes. But that's so much better People can be at home with their kids, avoiding, you know, electronic morrow. Make sure you're not going back So I would say for Democrats let's lean more on police and psychiatry to avoid mass incarceration As far as your question Sorry. As of today, we shall see. But somebody needs to. And I did tweet out do something. Yeah, I mean, there is a funny like, there's a there's a bunch of trains and there's all this looted packages. And Gavin Newsom, our governor, went there And somebody's got to get to the bottom B, which is like the onion you know, Gavin Newsom pledges of who's in charge of California. And it went viral and I was like, and you know, but then I read today that Republicans are going to field And again, I mean, I'm not a Republican, but I'm a little bit So part of my I've had a chance to meet a fair and even some billionaires I'm hoping that maybe one of them will I said, Look around the room even if you lose, we've got to challenge Because I just kind of go for it Sounds like a really bad idea. Well, you do talk in the book regard to the sort of NIMBY And you know, I think political courage, I think, was the word or cowardly, I think was maybe the word to the housing crisis, to housing, really, that he promised Can you talk a little bit more administration with regard Yeah, I mean, look, the first thing first of all, he's been dealing since he was a member of the of the Board Does he, though? Well, I mean, I'm not saying but I mean, he State of the Union speech that was really about drugs It was an incredibly good speech. He also promised to build, I think, one and a half million new housing units during his time in office. And then you just which is like almost I mean, there's been some good stuff but certainly on the drug and alcohol I think the most important one of the most important interviews a widely recognized psychiatrist named Dr. Thomas Insel, whose own book, by the way, on And he and I talked over Zoom we were finishing each other's sentences. We were like, And I was finally, I'm like, Dude, so like, what's going on? And he's he's also a political person. So he just kept saying over It's a leadership problem. I counted in the transcript, he said it's So obviously this is a problem I think the the it's now I think Gavin is afraid to counter ACLU. He's afraid to counter George Soros. He's he's afraid to counter housing first. I mean, which which one of the centerpieces which most progressives I think If you support single payer universal health care, We called it cal psych. And I find that when they ask me what I want to do, I say we want to get people We don't call psych. And it's perfect for Gavin to pick up and run on if he won't do it, and I hope I hope I do want to talk about Kassick because that's a big part of your But you know, is that Mean, we're coming off Sending out billions of dollars. You know, we're not exactly running things out of Sacramento How's that flyin? The answer being like a big, Right. So so I'm so I'm calling for cal psych, for a single new state agency And part of the reason is that there's the street They move around a lot and also sometimes live facilities whether it's shelters or residential care They don't need to all be in downtown There's just not that much room They should do their part, drug scenes are aren't So a statewide system would allow people The other thing is It's really hard to quit doing heroin. When everyone around you is is using one of the most famous studies is American soldiers When they came back to the United States, without much problems, in part So, you know, for for some people more care like people, schizophrenia But for the average twentysomething dude that we saw in the supervised drug that guy, those guys, they just need, in an organic farm and take computer programing recovery, refill with family and friends, That's what those guys need, They don't need that and should not be like that's just the wrong, We know, in fact, that European studies do not concentrate So what that allows is you can kind of go one of the best times to get people into Well, right now and we revive them and then we're like, Within hours, So if you could be like, Would you? Yeah, I say that 'cause I'm trying to appeal to liberals, But I think the point is It doesn't have to be. I mean, it can be in the Central Valley So that's the case for cal psych. It's also I just don't think this thing. I think I don't think hard So when you read, there's nothing more demoralizing between agencies. Forget about it. The agencies don't coordinate. You have to have a hierarchy. So that's what Cal Psych will do. Its CEO will report directly Best in class, that person should be from wherever six regional directors, who report to the regional directors facilities, psych beds, shelters. then mobile teams on the ground, Look, in 40 years, will cal psych have become a fairly bureaucratic Probably, and will probably be need to be dismantled But for now, there's no reason it couldn't meaning the classic skunkworks models that they create a whole new organization I think it was the F-16 to build a whole new jet plane. They had to move the employees That's what I'm saying right 360 and glide memorial to do this. This has to be done by somebody with a mandate Right now, People are paid to treat people. They're not paid They're not paid to get people So cal psych would have a mandate It's I think it's exactly what we need There's no reason that California as Amsterdam and Lisbon, but even better, This is the greatest country, and the greatest country in the world. Look, we have a 30 billion dollar surplus. We have plenty of resources. The thing? Yeah, it just shows that that agency They lost $30 billion of taxpayer money You got to have something, that is separate, And it would be, that resource Why hasn't gone down, like if it's so bad out there Yeah, we've all walked past. But why? Why does Zillow a, you know, was the what was the very it was in the news recently like the It was a just shack for $2 million. Like, why isn't what's happening there Because it seems to me Yeah, people Then you will have the candlelight vigil So why hasn't that happened yet? Because people still Dang it. Well, hopefully we'll cured him of that. Well, I mean, it's him. I mean, I mean, people still believe I mean, I and which makes me happy, actually, is cynicism and that people don't think which was actually as great And everybody And I was kind of like, Well, yeah, And so we're going to be back here I mean, I think that it is a problem. You're right. I mean, you hear the policymakers they'll be like, Hey, You know, nothing's as great I mean, look, we look like we're here for a reason like, I mean, we just, you know, I mean, and I think the other thing is that, I mean, when I would talk to people about Yeah, that's why I don't go downtown. And it's like, And it was a nightmare. It was dystopian. So, yeah, I mean, ultimately, because this was, you know, this problem in Skid Row and then the drug crisis, A variety of factors made us that and it became something That's an opportunity that we need to make that that will redeem our moral character, Well, it does seem like for something like that it might require a ballot measure, It that's an amazing ballot. Measures are always the best idea, to get the kind of political when you've got people who are saying, I don't want this, I don't want, I don't want you San Thank you very much. And then you have the people in the urban So it seems like it might be something as it were. Have any of your billionaire friends offered to bankroll Yeah, I did. I was involved in a in a and even raised a little bit of money in 20 late 2019 2020. But ultimately, it fell apart. It doesn't have the support. I found and that was part of the reason San Fransicko is questions that I needed time I'm not running for governor, what I would say is you come into office, you do a bunch of stuff that we, that we need to do housing earned as executive order to the extent you can. And that would survive in court You would to the Legislature If you don't want to do it, then I'm going to campaign against you And then and then you would also just work Governors have a lot of power, both in terms of the executive orders, and two other billionaires Come on, guys, It's broken. I mean, Sacramento is just such a petty town in some ways, I mean, it's so weird in some ways It's just like California. It's like this. Just whatever we are now, like the fourth And yet, like the concerns of your average and so petty. I do think they could rise that is going to lay out the solution I mean, you have to remember almost 30 years and we've been voting We have the Mental Health Services Act, which raises almost $3 billion a year It's almost all wasted because it's a significant amount of conservatorship But yeah, It might require ballot initiatives, through the Legislature as well. We have time for one last question, This is a question that says what can Great question. There are. There's so much that all of you can do. I mean, I mean, I when we said so we were I was like, what are the building relationships There's so much Certainly, social media is really game San Fransicko has been reviewed. It just got a very positive review It's been reviewed by the second largest It's been reviewed by The Economist, No, not mentioned yet You know, and yet somehow people have found out about it despite not So social media is super important. It was. It's been a pleasure to work with Layton Woodhouse. Erica Sandberg, Jenny. They are true journalists, true reporters. Very brave. So we need more citizen journalists, Yeah. I mean, you know, like, I didn't want to go cover that story that I had just got done praising Mayor Breed and I'm being accused you're giving me whiplash. You said nice things about Mayor Breed And it's kind of like, but we need reporters to do reporting. We need journalists. We need we need citizen journalists doing this reporting and that's We certainly need people to give money. I haven't plugged it yet, called the California Peace Coalition, which But it consists of recovering whose kids are homeless addicts whose kids have been killed by fentanyl So we need people to donate to California Yeah, we need people to get involved and build this movement because ultimately Well, thank you so much for anyone The answers are in here. I promise Michael Shellenberger for joining us today San Francisco We also want to thank our audience here watching and participating live. Thanks again for tonight's program Fund for making the books available And if you'd like to watch more programs in making both in-person visit Commonwealth Club dot org slash I'm Melissa Caine. Stay safe and healthy. Thanks again. New microphone. It's a.