It's official Donald Trump has been Donald Trump's a playbook of hardline tactics the US as the world's Trump introduced as trying to rebalance the trade economic rise, as well To me, the most beautiful word in Trump is focused on raising tariffs many of their goods into the United States by the government. In his campaign for reelection, left for American We will hire American, buy American, grow American, and show the whole world But after four years out of the Oval is returning to face an emboldened, and one the US may already Tackling that is likely to be in the sequel to his first four Thank you, thank you. Let's rewind for a second. When China joined the World it marked a new era in global economics. Lower trade barriers allowed China to ship and TVs around the globe, hundreds of millions of Chinese Then around here, I am officially running And that same year, China to upgrade its thriving export economy 'Made in China 2025' is essentially President place in the world as a preeminent global At its heart, national security goals It's the kind of grand ambition US presidents into taking action. This is The US efforts to contain China's growth and some of the trade policies Basically, they sought to make it more expensive and consequently redress The imbalance that occurs when the nation imports President Biden to scrap any Trump You could see The deficit shrank to the smallest total reflecting a decline in imports But globally, China's Its manufactured goods to global GDP of any country right after World War two. Trump also introduced policies to control as well as those of some allied economies, by the Biden administration. So that essentially makes it impossible to transfer US goods The US government stopped Huawei telecom equipment into the United States, It went to many of its allies to persuade them also to not let Huawei That caused all sorts of problems In 2022, they constrained China's ability semiconductors out there, that would be used to train They also constrained the country's including the machines that drive smartphones, Massive appliances like these extreme ultraviolet lithography machines The constraints are also intended from developing anything that could a concern long intertwined In terms of semiconductors China is still lagging behind the US. So we have seen some efficacy there. But the data shows US-led export They forced China and invest in its own scientists They've been very aggressive in applying to help them develop domestic industries When President X Jinping he can point to banks to provide He can point to state owned enterprises behind, backing that certain sector For instance, backers of companies considered China's has advanced lithography machines. At this point, I think everybody believes from being able to match ASML But they're pouring billions and they're very determined to be able to close the gap Evidence that China's semiconductor in 2023, when, while we released the Mate 60, when Bloomberg News commissioned Inside that phone was a semiconductor that was much more powerful than anybody It suggested, instead of being 8 Actually, But the cross application if we can do this with a consumer product just as easy to do this that's used for military applications China really has charged Take a look at this chart. You can see China's market particularly EVs. Despite US tariffs and restrictions on access to technology. Ultimately, there is this idea that trade always gets through. And that's sort of what we see when So for example, a big EV automaker some of these potential restrictions like Thailand, in Hungary and in Brazil. Trump wants to further limit imports And in his second term, may try to fulfill to protect US carmakers. I will impose 200%, 1,000%. They're not going to sell one car The concern in Washington and some of the software behind personal information and perhaps share it or at least with the companies that are It's the kind of rhetoric Beijing so have two U.S. administrations hindered China in ways It doesn't appear so. The vast majority of 'Made in China tracks actually have been achieved Tariffs have helped cut America's trade But as we saw earlier, they haven't prevented China And while the US may have slowed like advanced chipmaking, overall, are successfully advancing But even if the US hasn't managed to trip nobody expects a second If you look at the geopolitical, I think it's clear that the United States on their life for more restriction. How the sequel to Trump's first confrontation with China But if you listen to Trump, it's clear is his ultimate goal. We can do things that nobody else can do. China doesn't have what we have.