It's a symbol of Germany's economic might. Ludwigshafen. BASF helped spread Germany's Now, it's axing 2600 jobs here. All the while, China. economic powerhouse. But this year, it's the German economic growth is down, its factories success is waning. grand to gloomy, the model behind its rise is Why should you change a winning team? The has made a couple of people, you know, a bit economy has changed. pain risks spreading to an entire region. of the trade for Germany takes place. Exporting economy is not doing that well, that is In this episode, we will analyze the rise and The situation overall is not great. The telling us, yes, they expect a most companies arerem We will look under the hood What is the German recipe for success so advanced products that are in We will assess the gravity of its problems. downturn, but we also have structural And we will ask 'Is Germany's That's all coming up on Business Beyond. we have to dissect what made the country so During the 1990s, Germany's Reunification merged a successful capitalist economy. Absorbing the East meant West payments. The consequences strained 20 years ago, early 2000, the late 1990s, sick problem in Germany and there was or maybe reunification and we had surging unemployment To turn the country's economic woes around, Schroder introduced reforms that greased employment benefits and created The first thing is it really led to labor more willing to accept jobs at wages that More people working in lower wage jobs companies were able to manufacture and sell other parts of the world When you look back over the last 20 years. had also Eastern European economies emerging economies clearly catching up with together were creating a huge Roadmarking machinery, custom made tunnel specialized endoscopy devices. precision and quality. The country went from flashy economic papers. It even won the world What is the German recipe for success so far? products that are in high It's fastest growing buyer? China. in the 2000s played into the hands of exports to the country surged. and it was a huge market and it was really very Thanks to Beijing's boom, Germany became But, since then, the sunny As long as things go fine, it's like: Okay, hits a bit of a bump in the road. Like now, The world bank says the global economy is war in Ukraine and the continuing effects downgraded its expectations for this year. dependent on appetite for German products that appetite is waning. After peaking in 2020, the share of Germany's decline. the German chemical giant? They second quarter of 2023. The main reason? outlier. it immediately means the demand for, say, German engineering machine tools, you know, Siemens On the one hand, Germany is a giant exporter ready to use like cars and medicine. depends on selling capital goods, so products And so the Germans export fewer consumer and fewer capital goods to countries that basically once you have a tailspin in economies it would just be the exports in would be hit. is dampening. But that's not the only Remember the energy crisis in Europe? It Let's go back to the BASF plant in Ludwigshafen. the plant uses more power than Switzerland. more energy intensive than that of its That wasn't much of a problem when Russia the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Germany's momentum for G erman manufacturing. natural gas prices jolted BASF's energy bill up So at the moment we are paying the price heavily dependent, especially on Russian inflation. And with this also a stagnation BASF was forced to shut down its most Some 700 jobs will be affected. All the while, Up until about a year ago, I think people would two things only when they decide on where then since the year ago, they would Germany has now made it out of last year's in some areas, lasting economic So, yes, energy prices have come down again week after the start of the war in Ukraine. But Plus, the future of energy supply and uncertain. And this explains why. You know, why businesses, corporates are also looking region that might offer more stability, more currently can? have hurt Germany's gas-guzzling industry. It's And that's making a country known for its work fewer hours, so are less productive, We are in the process of deindustrialisation easily coming back. engines INSIDE the economy become But here's the issue: They aren't buying The problem in Germany has been that private too low. Germany's export machine 20 years ago. Now, they Wages cannot rise much more, wages don't private demand doesn't grow much in is even more dependent on exports than it be kept under control because it depends on you know, become even more According to a study by the Knowledge from this September were the lowest they have been But its not just low incomes suppressing stress from rampant inflation With low demand insi de the country, the export economic engine. But, when it comes to the has been betting on the same horse for too I think we only just have to ask ourselves, daily basis. Is it an app or is it really a indeed it is an app. It is music, it is a movie, good. is not that strong. And this is also where the As Germany's traditional export industry replace it. So far there's no clear answer. sector is essentially non-existent. And that's The German government has been frugal it has invested significantly less into I think, you know, we've done well. And when we have everything we need. Berlin's prudence is linked to a cultural dislike hyperinflation that gripped the Fiscal policy in Germany is, you know, to put you talk about the black zero, the Schwarzer It's not good to have a zero because it means future. Right. It's like you have to think of years or longer, not as a household that constraints. That's not how you do it. One crucial sector that has been underfunded have very high-speed internet connection. And than that of many other European countries. be naive. We have to change things. We of our economy ahead of us. minister. His government recently approved digitalization. country where you just think about And this also, you know, doesn't help when course, in those digital infrastructures. Digitalization is one of Germany's keys to of Germany's small and medium-sized digital expertise. there aren't enough workers to fill vacancies. But work don't have the right training. interest in training for digital professions. Retraining schools like this one are to bring employees up to speed. realm. If we don't manage to include all social we are going to have problems. Germany now plans to double its funding for AI for progress in these highly advanced to mend the craters in its digital foundation. the entire IT sector. We are not very good a lot of potential for development and its tech sector is weak. So, experts say We have to see there are huge opportunities be successful in developing them? I think it's to research. But it's not an area Germany performs well in. countries like Singapore, Switzerland and But lack of innovation isn't coming from a lack Europe than any other European country. The businesses. Germany is infamous for its bureaucracy. company in Germany, compared to just 40 in And construction permits take more than 50% countries. Let's look at Marvel Fusion for example. The zero-carbon energy with atomic fusion. It's announced the construction of its first lab This is Heike Freund, the COO of Marvel Fusion US ecosystem, especially when it comes to globally have been done in the US and in the private fusion company space. Fusion needed is still hard to come by in Germany. I believe we have amazing human capital great industrial ecosystem here. So, Germany the next tech champions. But with that missing commercialize those innovations At the beginning of this video, we asked broken. The experts we spoke to painted a threatened. Not only by short-term problems Germany's finance minister admits to that. Subtitles: We shouldn't be naive. We are have structural problems that we are digitalization... industry fueled Germany's boom times. They lulled failure to pursue reforms is now coming back to It doesn't make sense to keep things as change as well. engine. That will entail breaking out of existing So in the current situation, it will not be German economy and sticking Investing in the future. don't need to answer this question: "what are the conditions that allow for developments in Improving energy supply. a lot of decisions to increase the share of So a lot of barriers have been removed. There but a lot of solar PVS on the roofs. That is going in the right direction. Pay them better and they will At the same time, experts say that Germany's buried completely. away our comparative advantage. For instance, in moment is doing, in that case the right thing. agreements with Latin America, with other So you sort of have a have an interesting more accentuated because of its industrial international division of Labor. But the again because then Germany One thing is certain, the cushy years are realization will determine the strength And Germany has been sort of the engine of people ask. But on the other hand, you know, little bit of attention as well that makes us this perspective from the outside so that companies, German industry start to reflect And that's it from this episode of Business economy, check out our recent video on German