C.S. Lewis in his 1943 book, The Abolition serious scientific endeavor are twins. One was but they were twins. They were born Stephen Meyer, and James Orr Welcome to Uncommon Knowledge, recording today in philosopher and author, David Berlinski, received doctorate in philosophy from Princeton. He has Universite de Paris, and his books include Space, Euclid and His Elements, and Newton's Gift. undergraduate degree at Whitworth College, and a from Cambridge. Now the director of the Center for Dr. Meyer has published books including and the Return of the God Hypothesis. classics at Balliol College, Oxford, then received College, Cambridge. Before deciding he was an a couple of firms, including Sullivan &amp; Cromwell. serves on the faculty of Divinity at Cambridge. reading, Neo-Aristotelian Metaphysics and the [foreign language 00:02:03], which is meant to good cheese, I'm not sure. All right. Sagan and Carl Sagan, &quot;This cosmos is all that David Berlinski, &quot;Sagan is hardly alone. Some orthodoxy.&quot; You have to tell us What I meant. It's been a long time since I wrote those words, Materialism is an ill-defined term, we all know something solid, something enduring, something has extension, mass, durability and so on. But of material objects to the countable objects. there could be two, but does mud count as part are there in fields? That's not a question that doctrine of materialism, it's not compromised, but of materialism seems to me the primordial concept That's completely impregnated with the natural an object without its numerical identity. if anything that counts as an object, counts as a identity. The numbers are not material objects. seems inexorable, inevitable, irrefragable. &quot;I'm a materialist and extremely proud of would say. I just believe things as they itself to an enormous degree of lucidity. That was a simple beginning. No, it's not that big. of materialism has become a contemporary sense of David's words, orthodoxy, materialism. was actually making that was an aggressive or was, or ever will be.&quot; What did he have in In David's defense, the materialists don't make semantic slippage in how we describe this to be the word that was used an awful lot. That As it turned out, that matter was not quite as legible to scientific inquiries, naturalism, materialism, just to put it on the All truths are scientifically explicable truths, scientific truths. That's it in a nutshell. proposition you just uttered. wanted to put the definition on the table, and we propositions can undermine that thesis. recapture the conversation or we'll spend which would delight David, I'm sure. So to put it very crudely, but correctly question question is whether I'm putting it correctly. aggressive toward any proposition, any religious sensibility. That's what he's At the very least. At the very least. I think one way be simply to say that the natural scientist Okay, that's even more aggressive in a sense. can know or how we can know it, but then the and energy are all that really exists. our experience of the mental or a consequence of matter in motion. some form of materialism, we stopped has become a contemporary orthodoxy. high-flown faculty. David has been an academic likewise you, you're all professional academics. you're rolling your eyes. And how is your answer? thinking among many people in the natural And many of the ideologies that are derivative essentially materialistic at the root. Largely. I would say it's the unreflective All right. in his nuanced definition, is already pointing out realities like the natural numbers or math? terribly well is what you're trying to suggest? can remain a prevailing orthodoxy, It's the water we're swimming in. is noting that in the Early Renaissance, modern together. Lewis points out this notion that not so. Early Renaissance, we get modern science All right. Lewis, now, he's talking about the wise men of old, the cardinal problem has been how had been knowledge, self-discipline and virtue. is how to subdue reality to the wishes of men.&quot; in magic and in much of modern science, modern a question or two for you coming, Steve. it's almost a Nietzschean will to power. We I think that's fair. I think there Go. image problem emerges, which Lewis describes. even very early on it became clear, that there easily be reduced to the natural sciences. And to put Humpty Dumpty back together again. the one that you intimated earlier, that as the humanism emerges in the Renaissance and a theocentric conception of the universe, which human mind becomes the great organizer of David? There's a little bit of that, but it depends which It's not a point of view that a close Well, but Aquinas would precede Oh, yeah. Three centuries, yes. So the Certainly, the Greeks were under no illusion apprehending the natural order. been thus. The unmoved mover, the first cause, Galileo, Kepler, Boyle, Pascal, Newton. We'll Ray, Huygens, the list goes on. Yeah. men? Well, until we get to Madame Curie in the- They're all men? Okay. How do we get from these early men of Nobel Prize winner in physics, Stephen Weinberg, nightmare of religion. Anything we scientists can Physicist Stephen Hawking, &quot;Before we understand created the universe. But now science offers a How do we go from Galileo and Newton, to Dawkins and Carl Sagan? How did this happen? it. I think there is kind of a rise, In the period of the Scientific let's say the 17th century, 16th, 17th century. You have the Boyles, and the Newtons, and the a profoundly Judeo-Christian understanding of the And so they perceive that science is possible, been made in the image of a rational creator. world and endowed it with rationality, and a principle of correspondence between the nature such that we could understand it. pursue what is often very a hard thing to do, To pursue systematic methods of studying So again, being very crude, I believe in Because I believe in a good and loving, that the manifestations of His work that Intelligibility is a key word, yeah. Right, right. You see this in the title of Newton's great Barrow, a great, early physicist at Cambridge. founder of what's called British natural theology. with the rise of modern science. was trying to understand nature in a way that They are exploring the mind of God. or the Principia, however you like your Latin, Well, he was trying to reveal the mathematical were an expression of the mind of God. this was where science in the West began theological and the scientific. It occurs gradually, but particularly in rise of figures in the field of geology. You Darwin, Freud, Marx. to tell us about the origin of the great features purely naturalistic processes. Then Darwin does forms of life from simpler pre-existing forms. like Haeckel and Huxley, who want to even explain you have Marx who uses a materialistic, he has So you get this comprehensive story, Laplace of the solar system, to the origin of man mind of any kind. So it's a materialistic David, here's what was going on. During the long living for the last 250,000 years. Then we get We get the Industrial Revolution, the expansion us nothing. Science gave us abundance. That's Yes. No. On that particular thesis? is saying, but there's an underlying psychology This is the hand-fisted explanation, gives us religious wars. Who needs it?&quot; is I think that this association of materialism or very shoddy reading of the history of philosophy. philosophical field, we've got figures like we've got the Stoics. They are not Abrahamic Nor are they materialists. there were a few of them around. There but really it was a minority position. It was Now, the great emergence of capitalism that the there are just so, so many factors at play. But extraordinary growth to the Protestant Revolution, thesis, which I think still- Well, I think it commands quite a lot of support All right. if you think of all of the great institutions that that begin to emerge. The stress on individual You can really see a great precursor to it in I think it's also a bit of a misreading of religion. Protestants are perfectly good at good at killing Catholics. What we're seeing but the birth pangs of the secular nation state. fundamental compatibility of science and Newton. I'm quoting your book, Newton's Gift. and you write about the years 1684 to 1686. only to sustain his mind.&quot; David, what did It's really hard to overestimate what he between Leibniz and Newton about who first had ongoing. But it's clear that Newton independently which is to say the leading idea, flying ordinary That was the essence of the Scientific Revolution differential, and partial differential equations. nature by differential equation. Incredible an incredible revolution in physics. If I could interject something that I just learned mathematics right at the beginning of that And by the end of that two-year period, he corpus of mathematics, but he had, as David bedeviled mathematicians for almost 2,000 years. a professor of mathematics and you look out at a the other half are scribbling away. Isaac Newton's cold, black eyes staring at you, Someone of incredible intellectual power is taking and conjecturing about the replacement. and to understand, yeah. &quot;The Principia is without question, our greatest &quot;Our greatest work of pure thought. Yet over to alchemy.&quot; Alchemy, the belief that A field of study, little short of magic itself. was given over to alchemy. Newton wrote more than endless experiments in his own laboratory.&quot; The million words on alchemy. How can that have been? 300 years. When Newton was writing the the subject of chemistry really didn't exist. about the quantum world. He had no idea about the between molecules. Everything was conjecture. him the richest schemata of possibilities and Happened to be wrong, that doesn't mean it was and it offered an extraordinary promise. maybe you'll be able to convert mercury into gold. able to accomplish. So, of course, Newton was noxious fumes escaping through the Attic. Of course, he was doing that, everybody was doing is flourishing. Astrology, which is a comparable Just there's an astrologer on every London Street It's a very curious, very strange teaching. I but if you go through the medical specialists in gynecology were almost all astrologers and Successful meaning what? They got paid for it? because, &quot;There was money to be got.&quot; That's practice. He specialized in finding lost career, he was enormously successful, successful did. He wrote 13 volumes of a book that's wanted to stay in the good graces of the church. they're all small. He explains everything &quot;You want to find a lost fish, here's what you do. and you follow the charts, and therefore, you okay, William, but how do you find the A very flourishing, very interesting, very year. 1684, 1685, Newton publishes the Principia, they disappear, never to be heard of again. intellectual relationship between the publication You have to learn a lot of mathematics just the astrological tradition in London, what is the style of intellectual idealism. There was which was causal, but between ideas. If I had a There's somebody coming just on board with unpublished stuff. His name is Michel Jolland, and I'm in awe even of your discursions, magic and science as twins, both in a kind of we see something like the opposite. to understand both science and magic fair-ish? Spring to my defense, James, before we- profoundly religious figure by his own hand. He religious figure could possibly write. architecture of the universe. There's no question Weinberg as kind of an alien figure. No connection Once again, Newton's Gift. I'm bringing you in, Newtonian world that is not explained by Newton's &quot;The law of universal gravitation binds the but the law itself is transcendent. It cannot be you want to stand by that, of course? Yeah, all right. Beautifully expressed. So this gets us into? between the magic and the scientific. this gets us into, apart from anything else, it The scientists can give us more Or descriptions. tell me what's going on here. Go ahead. Newton is accused by Leibniz of because he has this wonderful inverse-square law masses. The two masses exerting the force on but the distance squared term is the rub. transmitted through empty space without for example, the moon and the water that forms on theory is this mysterious notion of action at a through empty space with no pushing and pulling. 17th century, the scientists had rejected The scholastics, late and medieval scholastics and then it puts me to sleep, then I ask Well, it's because the opium had a dormitive of the effect. So the mechanical philosophers in the and others say, &quot;We got to get rid of that type Tragic loss. and formulates this beautifully comprehensive descriptions of the motions of the planets, but it. I can understand why the table moves because The theory before him was something called mysterious but physical substance called way that sticks in a vortex would swirl. see it. Leibniz's objections to Newton is what? What is gravity? Well, it's the tendency for Well, because of gravitational force. So what is do they fall? Because of gravitational force. He thinks you're doing nothing more than the effect as its own cause. because Newton offered an incredible Exactly. He had something the scholastics mathematical description. But it raised this The other part of the dilemma that Leibniz of letters that passed between one of Newton's think, if it's not just an empty scholastic immaterial entity. Maybe you're bringing God into Okay. James, so let me read you a couple Newton did in the Principia suggests what? Here's Richard Feynman, &quot;The fact that that it is possible to find a rule, like the of miracle.&quot; 20th century philosopher, no, he was He was, indeed. fellow Cambridge man. Here's Ludwig Wittgenstein, world lies the illusion that the so-called laws of Explanation, I take him to mean In the causal sense, yeah. Right. as though everything were explained.&quot; along to the 20th century and grant Einstein. explanations of natural phenomena, which properly grasp of ideal forms if you want to be. rule out the supernatural. That which Broadly speaking, that is correct. feel as though you're slumming in having this Not a bit of it, not a bit of it. paradoxes of the 17th and 18th century, is while with it this sort of idea of a divine legislator commitment to the existence of God is beginning keep persisting all the way through into the In fact, they didn't just persist. They are sciences. They lie right at the bottom of the about earlier. Now, I take the view that laws laws of nature that we invoke, will explain the nature and non-accidental regularities in nature. it's a regularity that you can't get a cubic an accidental regularity. In principle, if you it is a law that you can't get a sphere of uranium reaction. Now the law gives us an explanation. accidental and others have a law-like, gnomic how do we explain it in secular, naturalistic the divine lawmaker, as it were, imposing the philosophers try to lift up this idea, lift up the David Armstrong, a famous Australian metaphysician if you think of Newton's second law, think of F You think of these properties of having force, there's a kind of what he calls a quasi-causal which concrete examples of force and mass and And that conformity can be explained in but it's an explanation for why there All right. thing in context historically that supports there was a famous paper in the history of science The paper was famous, Edward Zilsel, was called He goes back and he says, &quot;You don't find Greeks. There's the idea of natural law human reason.&quot; But the idea that nature- Yes, but that nature is governed in some are a product of the divine mind. as my Cambridge supervisor put it when I gravity was that the ultimate cause of it was what that it was a mode. What we call the laws And this is what Zilsel found is that he said juridical metaphor of theological origin. So as we have these modern materialists saying, &quot;We can without really being able to explain Zilsel, I was thinking to myself, &quot;Why the answer is because I read it in your all right, I want to move to a related but I may indulge myself because this is one that has However, I lack the intellectual equipment that to this point in the conversation as I read mind such as Newton. And even his explanations, only leave room for but seem in some ways to rely of a legislator. For Newton. Okay. Now we come to, what I'm trying to materialist outlook, and now we come to the Here are a few quotations. Bear with me it fascinates me. The three of you will actually Charles Darwin, &quot;With me the horrid doubt always which has been developed from the mind of all trustworthy.&quot; Darwin sees the problem. If our why should we trust their ability to reason? couple of years ago, as I recall. &quot;If thought is then thoughts are neither right nor wrong. discourse disappears into the absurd chatter be right and none of us believe it to be.&quot; &quot;The naturalists have been engaged in thinking fact that they are thinking. The moment one thinking cannot be a merely natural event, and Now, in my little mind, this has always been a above and beyond near matter must exist, and yet this argument, in particular science. many people know the argument. you're nodding away as though you... Go ahead. two challenges in what you've Oh, you double it for me. The fact of mind, the problem of consciousness for materialists. And before getting into debates of mind and reason and rational discourse, That it is incumbent upon the materialist reduced to without remainder neurophysiological Darwin's doubt, developed, of course, Miracles, and later with Real Philosophical Basically, it's I think known as the evolutionary way Lewis puts it in Miracles, is that it's very with causal processes. We talk about, &quot;Well, he we reason in causal ways. Lewis's point is that Rational discourse, rational reflection, although it's tempting to use causal metaphors, least certainly they may be identified and connections, but they're not the same thing. Darwinism and the evolutionary theory, is that the are not truth-tracking but survival tracking. problem for them, isn't it? that sometimes truth-tracking cognitive If I can count the number of tigers in the over the person who can't are a lot higher. it plainly is the case, that falsity tracking is it that atheists accuse religious believers of? which must be explained in Darwinian terms because as some kind of survival coping mechanism. that religion has a survival value, So there's a negative correlation between what we It's a fascinating moment in the history of the specter not just of a skeptical objection. thought must stop. I don't see any of that. That's why I'm so happy to have James. Go ahead. there is some significant relationship between cognitive power. And the standard of assessment or sound, or not valid or sound. It was, My particular ancestors were probably of truths. I'm convinced they were. So what? So reasoning is. The causal sequence has absolutely so Darwin's horrid doubt remains just what it was. about a lot of things with very good if we accept this as a universal point of of self-reference. Universal skepticism must then universal skepticism itself may be dismissed. a shtetl somewhere in Poland, indifferent to the have to those particular circumstances? The the end be skeptical about universal skepticism. were nodding happily away as I read my quotations. the back of his hand, and you were Well, my point was simply looking at it the emergence of mind, truth-tracking It's not a puzzle if you don't accept the But can you grant that the mind-body What's the problem? For the materialist. That we all seem to be possessed we'll call it a consciousness, that cannot Says who? Well, when you're asking for evidence, Thank you, James, keep going. Let's be reasonable. that's the point. That's the point. ChatGPT-4, there's a mind that's entirely is an extraordinary achievement. It's right there, it will talk to you. no difference in principle between highly No, I don't need to assert that. If you want in principle, but what difference does to the thesis of the divisibility between system, and intelligence instantiated in an We can't say, &quot;Oh, they're just absolutely different, we have to recognize that. That early as the 17th century. Leibniz was very forward to reducing all intellectual endeavors to David, surely you wouldn't say that conscious-minded perspective on the world. so that doesn't advance the argument. subjective experience is me. About Maybe that concedes the point that there experience, which is qualitatively I have no reason to doubt my own experiences. inconceivable and everything I've read is which is measurable, obvious, palpable, I think that's been undeniable since the of intelligence, if we're all limited There we go. Artificial intelligence No it's not. It's designed On that question, we must proceed. We leave that to one. We're getting split decisions here. Huh? There's only one. For David, there's only one. I didn't say you don't exist. I don't consciousness with which I am personally answering to the name of Berlinski. About There are degrees of probability, David, first-person perspective. And vice versa. argument. John Searle makes a good argument. women ever to get a PhD in America, I think, had She wrote him and said, &quot;Russell, I've much fun. I don't understand And it's a very unusual, very rare phenomenon in met, David's the first solipsist I've met. if we're talking about consciousness, You mentioned Searle and he has a beautiful Berkeley. He gave a wonderful talk. I heard mind call them Qualia. My experience of the corresponds to my mental experience of that color. neurophysiological state. All we can do is show never close the gap between necessity and true been a persistent problem in trying to account it's just our own or what we think others have. entirely, as you suggested we do. Ignore that man for the time being. this gap between saying that, &quot;Well, we necessary to our experience of the world.&quot; specific neurophysiological states and purple tie or your blue suit. That's the materialists have failed to explain. there and move on. No, no, no, because enough is good enough in the way this is running. deal with the problems of materialism more complicated, thank you, David. Thank You're welcome. There's at least one of them. materialism in practice, we'll just go through 20th century. The Big Bang, Georges Lemaitre, He reasons that if all the galaxies appear then at some point in the very distant past, into a single point, and then exploded. don't like the idea, including Albert Einstein, I think, inherited a default materialist it was simply inconceivable to him, as it was to that you would have a beginning to matter. simply didn't believe that something could come And Einstein's equations at face value seemed to be pulling everything together. And if that was be something, then we would live in a giant black universe. We live in a universe in which there's An antigravity force that's pushing things constant. Fair enough, but what he then did, he to the cosmological constant. It was completely he could portray the universe, as in a static the outward push of this additional, And he then portrayed the universe as in a perpetual balance between the inward eliminated the implication of his own equations that subsequent physicists, Lemaitre was one, Very small perturbations one way or another would And then the evidence started to come in and others showing that astronomically speaking, suggesting an expanding universe. of consensus science, because the moment you Like the three of you all quite rightly say, then the Big Bang today, is it not? after the redshift evidence was shown. models and discoveries that have challenged those The notion that the universe had a beginning has It's very, very rare that in the history of changes the game, changes the philosophical theorem in the 1960s, which I think commands at least in cosmology, did have that impact. particular version of the cosmological in the eighth, ninth century, the so-called to exist, therefore the universe has a cause. And the materialist, can't be itself a material cause. matter, space-time. So this opens up the question, accept the principle that something can just agency or cause that can adequately explain it. thoughts, but we move on. The discovery Species in 1859. We know all of this lower to higher. He's pretty casual about the some simple blob of jello would do the trick. forms of life, every single, single-celled and in particular, equipped with a strand Richard Dawkins, &quot;Darwin made it possible The late philosopher, Anthony Flew, Oxford of his life as an atheist, and then changed his by the almost unbelievable complexity of the that intelligence must have been involved.&quot; more persuasive? The Flew or the Dawkins? has a point that it's much easier to have become it was before, and I think that is culturally diaries, personal asides, until 1859, it was It was possible to say, there's a lot of have a relationship with a Christian God, only becomes possible after Darwin provides 1859 may not have been solved after 1859, I see. to my mind, a defense of Dawkins. He is right has an important point. It was possible to be an Whether he is right in suggesting in 2024 that's a slightly different question. Well, it's a question of taste, because certainly on the other hand, Flew is entirely rational. conflicting positions. Flew has Wait a minute, Dawkins says, &quot;I &quot;I do.&quot; Those are contradicting points. as you remarked, as an atheist. So he was analyzed. He was facing that, he had accepted. molecular biology, the existence this is also a rational point. A much may reveal that Dawkins and in that versions Well, and this is the argument of a very famous called The Deniable Darwin, it later that you get the Molecular Biological comes out of that is the realization, the secret Has to do with information, and at least the And if you begin in '58, Crick advances the that the nucleotide basis, this chemical subunits functioning like digital or alphabetic characters By 1965, his hypothesis is essentially laboratories on both sides of the Atlantic. Institute in Philadelphia. Some of David's early Mathematical Challenges to Neo-Darwinism, mathematical analysis to a simple example. building the proteins is in a long bit string, Cs, Gs and Ts along the side of the DNA, it's degrade the function that you have long before That if you've got a section of computer you're going to degrade the function of the or operating system. And so these scientists, MIT at The Wistar Institute say, &quot;Hey, there's And David did a beautiful job explaining think has been answered adequately. a version of Big Bang has an effect on the Professor Flew says there's a Yeah. One way of thinking about that- I think David's broadly correct to that after 1859 it becomes possible to But it seems to me that after 1958, that's David said he was correct sociologically of an intellectually fulfilled atheist Agreed. I think it becomes- After '58, I think it becomes very, very hard We're now dealing with, of course, what is nature of reality is explicable in material terms. coding information that is intrinsically ideal challenge. Maybe it's too quick, I think it or to divinity. But it's certainly too thick a digestive system. In the 19th century, the scientific consensus was energy, space and time. And now in the 20th and that there's a third fundamental entity. space and time. And that in our experience, which is the basis of all scientific reasoning, of just an underlying material substrate. is Newton's Gift. &quot;True not just for Newton's the electromagnetic field, Einstein's Schrodinger's wave equation in quantum mechanics. are not themselves a part of nature. They exist Now, forgive me if this is just a sheer reminded me of something, Exodus when I come unto the children of Israel and I am that I am. What is his name? What shall I say to them? Did you do that on purpose? They It certainly feels like the ground of being. Because if I said no, it was a sheer accident. could not count that. you the truth, I don't remember why I wrote But that is not just in my view, I think that the part of the scientific community Right. different. But the physicists, the theoretical how they view the laws of nature, as if they're only explain but govern the world, the universe. the all, and I think that that is entirely that is how the laws of nature appear to Okay. So for the two of you then? that point of view is true. really interesting question. The laws but how is it that mathematical expressions are a conflation that occurs a lot among physicists. his newest book, and so it's a category mistake. lines on the map are responsible for Unless there's no such thing as the physical of view we mathematicians are partial to. The two of you may excuse yourselves and go to but I have a question for James. I have a question questions. Is it fair to say, again, you have For a long, long, long, long time when I was a as science progresses, it squeezes God out. everything. That no longer feels to be the long as you can and you get to a Big Bang, God. It's reaching a point where it can't say, discovers DNA. How did this strand of three And so is it the case that properly understood, but takes us straight to the foot of the throne? here. You follow the science today and it takes couple of decades ago. Is that fair? materialists to accuse theologians of indulging Explain that. Yeah. theologians where there's a gap in our scientific and say, &quot;Well, God is the explanation. there are all sorts of reasons to be concerned what we see today is a godlessness of the gaps. The idea is roughly, &quot;Okay. We can't understand moral truths, or modality or mathematics, or just give us time. We'll get there. We'll fill Materialist science will fill in the gaps, yeah. think it is absolutely true to which is really what it is. Materialism is a is unraveling on all of those M words that I the return of the hard problem of consciousness. mathematics must be real, because science or establish or verify mathematical truths. these are questions that science are Without if it's not going to simply which cuts very deeply against our intuitions. So Beta plus maybe. All right. Here's your last again in The Abolition of Man. &quot;The triumphs of As Do we all. As do we all. science may have been too rapid and purchased something like repentance may be required.&quot; imperialism. Do you see any signs of I do. I like the repentance word but it literally means to rethink. I a rise, fall, rise plot structure in the the West in a Judeo-Christian milieu for The intelligibility of nature and things we've 19th century, materialism became the more dominant the fall of that theistic perspective. But I think It's coming back, the theistic? scientific discoveries, I think, is coming back. explanation because of what we don't understand. the things we have discovered about the beginning The incorrigibility or the absolute necessity of and what we know about where information comes this is why I wrote the book, Return of the God an adequate explanatory framework. gave rise to modern science, provides things that we've been discovering. making a request of the remarkable Sure. will you read from your book, Newton's Gift? In old age, Newton allowed the focus studies. He wrote and endlessly rewrote the he came to face death, he chose to describe &quot;I don't know what I may seem to the world, but playing on the seashore. And diverting myself prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great David Berlinski, Stephen Meyer, James the Hoover Institution and Fox Nation shooting Silence. Everyone, [foreign language 01:11:52]. whenever you're on the show, there's