Anatolia has been the dynamic crossroads between Starting roughly with the collapse of Bronze BC, and lasting over 2,000 years, Anatolia The Hellenic domination finally ebbed in the down Byzantine border defences and found a Asian homeland. This would, over the course of many centuries, region to a Turkic Islamic one. Shoutout to the Ridge Wallet for sponsoring We have been using wallets kindly provided say that it is one of the best products we to all of our viewers. They don't fold, don't bulge in your pocket, design. Ridge Wallets are a great gift for you and Ridge holds up to 12 cards and has an attached It comes in 30 different colours and styles, burnt titanium. For us, switching from the old wallets to super fancy gaming armchairs. But don't take our word for it - ridge Each wallet comes with a lifetime warranty like it, that they'll let you try it for If you don't love it, just send it back Support our channel and get 10% off today going to ridge.com/KINGSANDGENERALS and using Seljuk Sultan Tughril died in Rayy on October Though a man of extremes - from 'intelligent, 'cruel and tyrannous' - there is no doubt In a lifetime, the Seljuks had gone from an Central Asia, to a conquering force with dominions as Syria. By the time of his death, Tughril was the Succession in steppe society was rarely ever a dynamic elder nephew of Tughril - Alp Arslan, opposition and become the new Sultan shortly Alp Arslan quickly embarked on a number of In some ways he had to do this. Despite the fanfare about Tughril first entering wasn't suited for the traditional steppe Alp Arslan had no problem finding willing With Seljuk authority now approaching the borders with both the Shia Fatimid Caliphate Byzantine Empire and its allies in the north. Barely three months after becoming the Sultan, Accompanied by his son Malik Shah, he and way through southern Georgia and the Caucasus, of Byzantine hands. This was a key moment, as it opened a new for enterprising Turks to exploit. A glorious battle against a Christian foe, were no doubt in Alp Arslan's mind, but group of Turkmen known as the Nawakiyya. They were a tribal subset of the Seljuks, within the hierarchy. However, they were also notorious renegades on the borders of Anatolia, often served as Most of the time this wouldn't have been hired themselves out as mercenaries to the would do so in the future. However, the Nawakiyya were actively serving and Alp Arslan sought their apprehension. Feeling threatened, the Nawakiyya leadership offering service in return. The emperor's acceptance of this plea for in Syria, demanded a firm response from the leading a huge army east in 1071, rode to The emperor's attempt to finally bring a raids was a catastrophic failure, ending in Overwhelmed by a mix of betrayal and Seljuk destroyed, and he would be taken prisoner. Within a year, both Romanus and Alp Arslan son Malik Shah. Rather than serving as a decisive moment in allowed the autonomous Nawakiyya Seljuks, to spread almost unimpeded into Anatolia, source of military recruits, and raiding as By 1081, Suleiman established the so-called state in Anatolia. This might seem like just an average territorial of lifestyle in the region . As Professor on the Turks in world history: 'For the like a kind of "wild west" ... becoming Islamic culture and a new environment.' Rather than going over the well-known politics dynasty and the crusades, we'll pull back eventually changed the entire character of its political allegiance to the Byzantines. Before we do that, we must first consider to the would-be Turkic migrants, and why, Islamic conquests, they eventually supplanted For Turkmen who had initially emerged from Anatolia was a kind of 'home away from home', the nomadic life of flocks and herds. Though later beyliks such as those in Konya initial Turkic migrations into long-agriculturalist and incredibly deadly. It ought to be remembered that throughout took great efforts to push rapacious Turkmen own middle-eastern domain from said tribes' This mirrors the initial devastation caused followed by the enlightened rule of Great the great civilisations which their predecessors Due to the power vacuum caused by Byzantine began to take place which profoundly affected Repeated annual raiding during spring and to them through flight, death, or enslavement, decline in food production. The general trend of Christian refugees was coastal regions in the west, north and south, such as Trebizond, Tarsus, and Constantinople The central regions were inadvertently consolidated of Byzantine Emperors such as Alexius Komnenos, Greeks towards the western regions, which Urban centres which might have otherwise been nomadic conquerors became isolated from their then led to their abandonment as well. Because of the erosion of structured sedentary and use it in the maintenance of their flocks and others. By diminishing settled life on the Greek, made their own populations more prosperous available to them. A twelfth-century author tells us this about rich fields, which are, nevertheless,of no surrounded by enemies on all sides who hinder At some point, the first wave of Turkmen who staying year-round, using parts of the former seasonal migration. Nomads in the western part of Anatolia, for near the coast as winter quarters, but would to the higher-altitude plains in the interior Calculating the exact Turkic migrant population scarcity of some sources and the possible However, by the late 12th century some accounts tents in specific regions to many hundreds-of-thousands Yet, in contrast to the lightning campaigns Empires, the Turkic overthrow of Byzantine around four-centuries. The inability of Turkic tribes to conquer dogged resistance from the government in Constantinople, or risk losing their entire empire. In certain periods the conquest sped up, while but the general trend is clear in hindsight piecemeal. Similarly, in some areas it took longer for it was felt reasonably quickly. Compared to the relatively painless early of Asia Minor caused repeated shocks and dislocations Over centuries, cities were captured, sacked, Greek institutions mostly ceased to exist The incursion of Turkic tribes into Anatolia and the native ones, leading to the emergence by the early twelfth-century. This hybridised people came from all levels dynasty who married a Christian woman, to Because Muslim society increasingly dominated of mixavarvaroi increased the number of Muslims by default, since it was often easier just ruler. If the peninsula had still been politically by Christianity, it's likely this new population default. As we will see, however, this was no longer Just before the calamitous invasions began, 400 different bishoprics subservient to the record four-centuries later details only 17 bishoprics. The disappearance of a vast majority of Christian tax registers, which record that out of over over 92% were Muslim and only 7.5% Christian. This is a momentous, complex transformation simultaneous developments - the erosion of new Islamic culture. It was a twofold process which began along raids. Even before the Battle of Manzikert, Seljuk ghazi warrior of Islam, pillaged famous Christian After 1071 this obliteration of church property Phocas' church in Sinope and St. Nicholas' sites destroyed by the marauding tribes. The fact that these two places in particular the Christian community even more. Churches weren't the only victims of Turkic such as the monasteries at Mt. Latrus, Strobilus their denizens driven away. In addition to the aforementioned destruction, common. Sinope provides us with a microcosm of the Sultan Kaykaus I in 1214. He converted the Black Sea city's churches Greeks of Trebizond recaptured Sinope. However, this Greek reconquest was short-lived, again soon after. This serves both to illustrate the destructive, period and the destruction of Christian authority. The level of impact that these constant bouts to Vryonis: &quot;often seriously detrimental and Christianity in Anatolia. It sounds like a mundane thing, but one of of metropolitans, bishops, and other church in occupied regions, depriving the Christians them from their religion. Occupation of Anatolian dioceses by nomadic of its possessions and incomes due to confiscation land. Maintaining an ecclesiastical hierarchy like and the lack of it severely impacted the ability for which they were needed, because it was and educational services available to Byzantine leadership and guidance that was so essential All of this deprivation served to send the downward spiral from which it would never and reorganisation. Much of the remaining Christian population, began converting to Islam, which was increasingly In Anatolia, this religious change took two And though it's impossible to definitively invasions, both undoubtedly occurred in large Within the new Turkic-Islamic dominated status-quo, of reasons. They might have had a religious vision which Islam, or perhaps romantic reasons made it A Christian man might have fallen in love would, in that case, have been the easiest The most common factor influencing such voluntarily the material advantage one would gain from by fellow Muslims. Christians commonly had to pay the haradj in order to live under Islamic rule, which However, as we might expect from a people by the sword also took place, and plays a 'Tale of Danishmend'. Possible exaggeration of such military achievements in this piece, captured individuals or defeated stark choice of abandoning Christianity for Just one instance of this took place at the Malik Danishmend swore an oath to turn into When he did so through violence and threats, their faith was hollow, and their loyalty It must also be noted that the Turkic conquerors - such as Malik Danishmend and Kilij Arslan that came under their rule. Many would even mourn for these Muslim rulers, Sympathetic populations like these, such as suffered ill-treatment and high-taxation at were glad to get rid of them. However, it shouldn't need saying that this invasions were a time of unusual oppression They were largely excluded from government enslaved and converted, and the ravages that in most sedentary societies. With the Mongol invasions of the thirteenth-century, into Anatolia, bringing with them dervish of Islam which were more palatable to the We are planning more episodes on the nomad make sure you are subscribed to our channel We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and