Hello dear friends, I am glad to welcome you to my channel today in this video I make an unforgettable delicious cake "AIRY" cake fully corresponds to its name and at the same time it turns out not just airy but also juicy so soaked cake without exaggeration Melting in the mouth and besides everything This cake is prepared very simply and quickly using the simplest and most affordable products. So first, let's prepare the ingredients for the cake layers. I'll just mix the ingredients for the chocolate dough. Here I have 100 g of flour, 40 g of cocoa powder and 4 g of baking powder. I'll mix it all and just set it aside. to the side so that the egg mass does not settle, I do not waste time then mixing these dry ingredients. Now I divide five eggs into yolks and whites. Eggs here I take a medium size, weighing without shell. Each egg is about 50 g. I take eggs at room temperature here. I have five proteins, I'm sending it there now, 8 grams of vanilla sugar, a pinch of salt, I just beat it until it's like beer foam And I add 200 grams of sugar there in portions. It's better to take sugar, of course, as finely as possible, you can use powdered sugar for this, but then when you add subsequent ingredients, the sugar will all disperse and I beat for about five minutes, the time for whipping will depend entirely on your mixer, I have a 300-watt mixer that is low-power, so I beat it like this and the peaks should remain quivering in this mass, I add 40 grams of odorless vegetable oil, the juice of one lemon through a sieve, it's better to always strain the lemon juice here should not be reduced so that the Korzh is the most moist, take the juice of one medium lemon, just mix now, don't beat anything else And now I add 100 grams of corn starch, not potato starch, but corn starch, here you need to take 100 grams of starch, just mix it very quickly, here I am in real time showed how long it took me to mix it all to 5 yolks I add 2 more whole eggs a pinch of salt 8 grams of vanilla sugar Now I beat it all until smooth And I also add 120 grams of sugar The cake layer is unpretentious chocolate, so here you can safely mix it all and 20 gram of corn starch so that the Korzh is subsequently more moist when I beat this mass, now for about a minute I also add 80 milliliters of milk at room temperature and 40 grams of odorless vegetable oil. Ideally, take rapeseed oil, you need to be afraid that it is bitter or something in the baking is never felt If you pay attention to the industrial baking of such leading concerns or to the baking of very high-class confectioners, rapeseed oil is almost always used; added all the dry ingredients; sifted the mold here; I have a baking dish 24 centimeters in diameter; now, with a spoon, I spread the egg white the mass is just in a circle, my oven is already preheated, I will bake at a temperature of 170 degrees Celsius with convection, this time I carefully fill the gaps that I have between the protein mass with chocolate dough now again on those intervals in a checkerboard pattern Where we did not have I carefully spread the protein mixture with a spoon and again fill the gaps with chocolate mixture. It's all very easy to do, even a beginner here now with a spoon. These are the kind of circular movements I make. These are the improvised curls, you can mix it harder, then there will be more of it. This is the protein layer. It will look like this melange dough Then there will be no more pronounced protein inclusions. I baked for about 50 minutes with convection at a temperature of 170 degrees Celsius at a medium level, it will all depend on your oven. If you bake without convection then you should bake at a temperature of 180 degrees Celsius for about 1 hour the exact time is very difficult to say you need to look at your oven completely, you may have to cover the top of this Korzh Everything will depend on your equipment from your oven, this is such a beautiful Korzh it turns out in the cut, it is very unusual, very beautiful and very tasty, I simply soak it in cold boiled water because that the Korzh is sweet, the Korzh is rich, here the lemon juice balances its taste very well here I have 150 grams of apricot jam, I rubbed it through a sieve first so that I don't have any pieces and slightly warmed up half of this jam in the microwave, I spread it on the first cake layer, level it and immediately cover it with the second cake layer, you don't have to trim the second cake layer, I just trim it so that everything looks more even in the cut of the cake, when we baked this sponge cake, I let it cool completely at room temperature and then you can cut it. You can leave it in the refrigerator in cling film overnight. I also soak the second cake and spread the remaining apricot jam on it. and I also immediately level it 200 milliliters of chilled whipping cream with a fat content of at least 30 percent 16 grams of vanilla sugar 50 grams of powdered sugar and 250 grams of chilled mascarpone cheese You can replace all this with let's say sour cream from weighed sour cream, all at your discretion I'm making a very simple version I just cover the cake on top and lightly on the sides too. The total time to prepare such a cake will take no more than one hour plus baking time, that is, no more than an hour of personal time will be spent. That is, it is not time-consuming, this cake is very easy to prepare, you can even prepare it when Guests are at threshold already and here I mix about 20 grams of grated dark chocolate and 20 grams of coconut flakes, it looks the same as the cake itself in cross-section. You can absolutely cover it with chocolate glaze and decorate it with any cream. I just did it to match the color of the cake and so I put the cake in the refrigerator for about two hours, it slices perfectly, it is very soaked at the same time, very airy. That is, it fully corresponds to its name. The apricot jam evens out the taste very well here. The cake is amazingly delicious. I advise everyone to try it. For all lovers of chocolate desserts with meringue . with a hint I highly recommend preparing a cake like this beautifully, the cake is broken with a fork. The cake melts in your mouth without exaggeration, there is a very tender sponge cake and a meringue layer as well, and I hope that the video was useful and informative, subscribe to my channel, like, write comments, I wish you all great success and see you in new videos