- Today we're gonna be reacting to the most unique homes ever. - They're different. - And we're gonna kick things - Cave house, cave house. Yeah, this is how man used to - They literally renovated a cave and turned it into their home. That's cool. - I bet that's pretty It keeps it really cool. Oh, dog. Who cares? - Look that. That's nice. He's farming. Coming in at number two. This is, like, a home on a home on a rock in the middle of the ocean. - And it's got its own beach. - Could you imagine the only is by either a helicopter or boat. - Let's figure out a way to so we can go here. This looks cool. - Torturing my friend, - On a private island? - On a private house. - Whatever it takes to get me there. Also, we gotta take the helicopter. I know you scared a- - I know you are. - I'm taking the boat, - Okay. I'm taking whatever's in - Jet Ski. - Beckham. This is a cave home. Big cave home guy. Whoa, and they got lights and stuff. Okay. So it's a house that's as part of the cave. Basically, like the other cave - Wait, it's dripping. What do you do about the drip? It's got that drip, dog. The water and the rooms are all naturally built around Oh, my, the hallways and everything are just part of the cave. This is amazing. Look at that. That is just part of the cave - Can I stay here? - Why are people going This is what appears to be a bunker house. This is where you go to live if you've just completely you think 5G towers are, you know, causing illnesses. - And stuff like that. Yeah, this is where you want A nice fireplace. You can't be in a secure home without a good fireplace. All right, this is island house. - That's a large island - How do they get the wood there? - Is this just this one You know what? That's me when I finally - I'm gonna stop spending so much money so I can just buy an island and actually put a real house on it. It's like... At least you don't have to - When you do that, then - So then you can buy an island and then Chandler reacts and then he buys an island. - Holy crap. We just found Yeah, this is a whole castle. Is that Minecraft? I have seen this building, And now I think I'm seeing it for the first time in real life. So apparently when it's low but when it's high tide, the - So do the people just get stuck there at certain times of the &quot;Oh, can't leave, water says no.&quot; - That's cool. All right, so this is a - More of a box. - Is that one little cable - I wouldn't trust it. Good coffee shot. That's a good hut. I'm a hut guy. - I like hut. - You know, I'm such a big fan of hut, some people call me Jabba. - Some people call me pizza. - God, we are on fire today. There's no funnier Plane house. - This is a plane that apparently - This looks like that - Yes. - Which got here first? - It's like... - Yeah, did the plane crash Or did he buy a plane - Do you think we should to find out or just speculate? - Probably just watch the video. - Okay. and recreational site for me. It's also our concert on a wing site. - He has concert on - Yeah, why not? I guess. - Just the sheer of beauty of aerospace technology, the exhilaration. - Okay, so he's a big plane fan, this guy. I don't think I would wanna live there but kudos to him. - The sky sphere. Oh. I'm picking up what I like different houses. - So you climb this cylinder - Into your sky deck. - Really? That's the home? - I mean, you're hating Look at that. - Yeah. - You have cokes just deliver - This would be really and just look at the view and everything. I like it. - You sit all around and - Perimeter detection system. The moment you step foot on two-way voice is activated, - Oh, the three frames per I'm so terrified. So apparently this is one of the most secured homes on the planet. - Someone were to get up to this point, you have to assume by now It's all ballistic - Bomb proof. - We can also tactically deal with them at that point, too. - Yo, what? - Fog machine can deliver fog that's completely benign. - Now I don't feel like I'm I feel like it's someone - Don't ask for a challenge like that 'cause we're gonna come and knock it. - Yeah, don't secure your homes. That makes people wanna rob them more. This is a World War II British sea fort. Oh, yo, from really far away, - The AT-ATs. - Yeah. &quot;Star Wars.&quot; So these were seaports. This is what you trusted the - That's why you guys lost in 1776, even though this was after. I just like dabbing on the British. - Yeah, let's hit another - Hey, boom. Get out of here, British. - Get out of our country. - All right, this is an - Yeah, I'm down. - Maybe everyone else would like to be a kid up a tree. - Hey, Jimmy. - I don't care. Shut up. I'm learning about an - Leaving the impression that it's just floating in the forest. - That's so... It's like... - I love it. Wait, wait, wait. When he painted it, he bet there are clouds in the air. And now that there's no clouds- What? - That's a mirror. - No, it isn't. - No, that's a painting. Why would they just not use Jimmy thought that was a painting. I'm shock. I'm so distraught. - That table made me get slimed. Oh, it's cold. Screw you, table. - Regardless, that's really cool. Having a structure in surrounded by mirrors so it blends in. Why do more people not have that? - One downside. - All the birds smacking into it. - Imagine, you're just a bird, you're just enjoying your day. Really? - Hey, next up on the - The most important room in the world someone has said. - I don't know what I'm looking at but this is filmed by They keep a copy of every seed. Yeah, so if like the world - In a worst case scenario it should preserve the diversity - That's so smart to do - You can actually feel the moisture in your nose freeze so... - More important, Veritasium - He does. - Proud of you, Derek. Keep flossing. Okay, this is a safe You know that means it's extra safe. So you just see a giant black that's just a giant black cube. - Yup. - Nope, it's a house. This has gotta be the This looks like a modernized house but if you flip a switch- - It transforms into a secured bomb, bulletproof cube. - Big cube. Get those Cubes are the best. - And up next is arguably, one of the safest place on the earth. Safer than the White House. - This giant underground bunker. We did an entire video- - Where we spent 24 hours here. - We wait here. That's so cool. And so it's 15-stories underground and it's fully sealed off of just straight concrete. We went to all these rooms. - Fun fact, I watched &quot;Madagascar&quot; - It's a library, I played chess here. I lost chess. - All of this is many stories underground. It's crazy, and they're actually... Or they were, it might but they were actually selling, like, little apartments down there. So if, like, something goes wrong, you can go live underground there. Fully self-sustaining. I sound like a real estate - I'll take it. - Ooh, what? - What? - They could have just built a house but instead they built it, like, a little bit to the right on a pond and probably made it cost 10 times more. Real estate. - Call it a lake, it's a moat. I don't know, you can - He's like, &quot;Ah, who cares?&quot; We got what? Yada yada. We're rich. We're rich. We got big money. - The way he's standing, - Yo, this guy actually is a villain. - Yeah. He is a- If you own a black sweater- Put him on alert list. He's about to help an alien - I said, &quot;You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna do these - You gotta jump? - And have stepping stones going across and that'll take it and - 10.9 million. Honestly, that seems relatively cheap. - Yeah. that kind of money on a house. So we're clear. I was guessing, like, in the twenties, at least. I would've said, like, 25 million. Wow. - Let's do a few thousand react videos. Not pay you, not feed your kid. - Not buy my girlfriend anything. - Of course. - And use all the money Subscribe.