SELECT &quot;AUDIO TRACK&quot; I experienced it myself a long time ago, They wanted me to be more You know... here thin women... aren't considered the same as fat women. This is one of the last remaining places that carries on a very ancient tradition, that of forcing women to eat Beauty is a gift from God. Some have it, some don't. My name is Giuseppe, and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most extraordinary and to ask them a simple question: &quot;What does happiness mean to you?&quot; Welcome to Project Happiness. We've arrived in Kiffa, 500 km All eyes are on us because Usually western tourists don't come here We're here because this still carrying on forcing women to eat Because here a fat woman and so it's much easier Now the problem will be finding one. Not every woman But we're in the right place. The practice of women being fattened is deeply rooted in Mauritanian A fuller figure here signifies This custom is called &quot;Leblouh.&quot; but it's best not to because although 80% of it still remains a taboo. Mothers are often convinced to ensure a good future and they force their girls to consume and inflict pain on them I certainly don't go unnoticed here and some boys are but as soon as I explain they point me to where there are only women. There I should find my answers. We're in the marketplace of this village, in this area all of the women Amazing! When I randomly run into these places, I feel these are the adventures And it just happens randomly. You can't plan it, you can't read about it in books. It just happens, when you really travel. It's not easy finding someone But even those who don't want to talk show me, through their refusals, Faster than I thought, the news spreads searching for a woman and a woman invites me into her shop. Can you explain how you or what does it mean? It's a months-long process during which you are forced to drink liters of "basi". This drink is given to They have to drink it It's made of camel's milk and millet. In addition to that, you must also Another fattening drink is &quot;goussi.&quot; made with milk, rice, peanut oil, There are many ways to fatten girls. I experienced it myself Only when I was grown up why they forced me to gain weight. They wanted me to be more Here thin women aren't considered Because women who have Why are force fed women Touching a fat woman is more satisfying Otherwise men would feel they're And now do you feel Yes, I feel fine now. Listening to this woman's about what beauty really is. Mauritanian culture offers of what is considered attractive, but the serious health raise ethical questions about the priority of pursuing an aesthetic ideal There is a legend in Mauritania: It is said that in the oasis of Terjit, a tiny green spot in the live the most beautiful My faithful travel companion Bo We just met with the village leader. There is a curiosity that Bo and the gentleman are holding hands. It is a sign of great friendship. Bo has known him since Now they are reunited and they express In Arab countries it is for best friends to hold hands, Incredible story, but to talk about something Every day, we fill out forms or click without really knowing Although these services are free, to spy on our personal home addresses, and more, which is then and sold to companies The good news: we have the and have them delete all our data. The bad part is that it would but there is a solution called Incogni. A really simple and effective service to remove all our sensitive Simply create an account and communicate what personal data you want removed. Then grant Incogni permission They'll contact brokers and make sure Click the link in the description and finally erase all your Now let's return to the desert. and listen to a really [Giuseppe] a woman's beauty is The fatter the woman is, let's What do you think? There is an explanation. At one time our ancestors thought that beauty resided in abundance. Today in our community, I can't tell you that a beautiful woman is thin or obese. In fact, obesity is now Because people figured it out. But before it was considered beautiful! And what do you think You know, I think they're not bad people. They're simply not aware but little by little more And it becomes rarer to hear of families who force their daughters to become obese. And what is the meaning of beauty for you? What is beauty to you? In Mauritania we say: eyes are all the same, So every woman is beautiful, it just depends on And let me tell you something: If we all approached life more calmly, everything would be great. If the world were not so tense, life is really beautiful! For me, beauty is everywhere. [in Arabic] &quot;Thanks a lot.&quot; [laughing] We are about to meet a is revered and respected In fact, she's the leader of the women and she agreed to meet with us, so we are about to enter her house. [music] You have come all this way and now you have the beauty Here being beautiful means like our ancestors, without makeup. But what is never said our mothers crushed our to force us to eat and If a woman is not fat, They don't look at her at all. A thin woman does not attract men. Men want women with full figures. The overweight woman That is what is called &quot;beautiful&quot; here. But we all know that and not in our appearance. There are men who can and they fall in love with the regardless of whether we are It's all in the eye of the beholder. Before leaving Terjit, invite us to see the Oasis, an age-old refuge Oases offer water, food, shade in the most inhospitable And it is extremely here palm trees and water, are considered a true treasure, And I think in this lies the answers I was seeking. Our concept of beauty is not real, but conditioned by the Here in Mauritania we discovered so violent and so far from our while we, overwhelmed by proposed by the media we perceive plasitc surgery to achieve our unobtainable So what truly is beauty, after all? On the way home I am I read once in my school books: An internal beauty tied to morals, values, Each of us should be allowed to where beauty becomes the pure ENGLISH SUBTITLES: