The VIP room on the 39th floor is guarded by someone. Is it possible Okay, I'll be there soon. Bordeaux premium cellar red wine Would you like to try it? Um The drug trick When I don't know good Just play with you Who are you to dare to come here? Do you believe me? So much talk take away Come with me Trained fur Come again Who are you? I'm my own man, bro. Don't move Hello Boss Yeah, I've caught him. The person is here now. Who did you find? I Did you beat someone up again? Apologize immediately We are a security company Doorman Royal City 39th floor Those who go there are all the well-known figures in Yuncheng. If you cause me trouble again I'll pack up tomorrow. Get Out, Your Majesty I obviously didn't drink. Are those candles? Wrong door, maybe Please continue. I want to leave after I hit someone. I understand The rules of the underworld I'll pay for this wine. Not anymore it's not for you You brought this to your door yourself. Leave me alone It's over. I'm dead now. I made a mistake while on a mission Now I put him to sleep again Hurry up and run I'm sorry. I'm really sorry I really can't take this responsibility. If my boss knew this I don't have enough food to eat. Goodbye Never see you again Stupid is a bit silly But with those who are for the past life The women who please me are very different Kind of interesting catch Grandpa's phone number Old man, bad boy Why didn't anyone answer my phone call last night? Did you go out fooling around? Keep your voice down Talk about things It's okay, I'm hanging up. You listen to me. You must bring my daughter-in-law back to me by the end of this month Otherwise, family inheritance It might be that ungrateful little bastard from the clan. Okay, okay, I got it. I'm hanging up. Find me the woman who broke into my room last night. What is the origin Getting married anyway It's better to pick one that looks good. The other party has called you to come over for this mission The address and reward are written in it. You must obey their demands completely How afraid is this person of death? Not even a name left I didn't understand Guaranteed task completion Why did you pick such a thing on such a hot day? I thought I was the male protagonist of the vertical screen What a coincidence, you are here too. Every day is good. Every day is good. Don't want to be responsible This is what I said Isn't that just a matter between adult men and women? Besides, haven't I already apologized to you? What else do you want? Get the certificate What no No matter how he puts it, I'm the one who suffers the most in this matter. Never a problem To be compensated Why are you still relying on me? Our Mr. Xiao is in the Forbes 500 The King of New Energy Vehicles in France The real national husband The girls chasing after him can line up all the way to the Seine I'll rely on you, a crazy girl Why Stay away from me I'm allergic to rich people From today on, you are my personal bodyguard Requirement? Your boss should have told you about it. This mission must fully comply with their requirements You are the employer. Everything is up to you. OK There is 5 million in this card Just consider it as our payment for the contract Remember to come to work tomorrow Good boss Walk Just get a certificate I don't lose After the mission is completed I'm still free. oops You know how to come back? Running around outside every day Don't take a penny home You ass ball Oh wow, what a big face Did you give birth to me or raise me? Why should I give you money? Because you have a big face Oh, Old Su Look at your daughter. I'll serve you all day long This is really good for me. I also You better stop trying to scam me. Hit you I have never spent a penny of your money since I married into the Su family But I I am the softest person When did you get sick and die? I still have money to buy you a wreath How do you talk to your mother? Apologize to him immediately He's not my mother. This woman killed my mother. Not only did you ignore He also married the mother and daughter into his family. What do you mean You fuck you It was just an accident Shanshan was also in the car at that time How could I harm my own daughter? Accident That's really a coincidence. There were three people in the car at the time. My mom is dead My boyfriend has lost his memory Only Susan was unharmed. You are slandering people Your Shanshan also stayed in the hospital for a long time before waking up. Yes, he's in the hospital. She's sleeping on my boyfriend's bed. Enough, look at what you have become now. Nana Your aunt found a blind date for you I heard he's worth tens of millions. Remember to ask for more gifts. You all like money, right? These are my selling money. From now on, there will be no more guests for me and the Su family. Where does so much money come from? You don't have the right to ask anymore. Stop, how can you talk to Zhao Mei? ah Xia Laosu That warmth is not you You're busy outside all day. Isn't Auntie worried about you? You said you Bring back so much money for aunt and dad Honor us both This way, Auntie will be relieved. Can you tell me where you work? Introduce it to your boss Let Shanshan go with you too The work I do She can't do it Why can't I do it? You can do it, but your sister can't Are you worried that your sister will outshine you? snort Lao Su, this kid just came back Don't rush Hurry and get the durian out Nuan Nuan loves to eat this Just look at the faces of the two of you It's more disgusting than eating stinky dog shit. Keep it for yourself. Hello Song Zhenxiang You have employees Dormitory? I'll pick you up No wonder my mom said she made so much money. It turns out that she is hanging out with an old man. good I'll do it myself This is the staff dormitory you mentioned. This is my home You are my wife Is there anything wrong with living here? It's not true Call me so late Have you been wronged at home? Zong Zhengxiang, you are in the cloud city premiere picture Could you please do me a favor? Three months ago, my mother died in a car accident. The appraisal said it was because of the driving reluctance But I always feel that things are not that simple I hope you can help me check it out Why did my mother have a car accident? OK Leave this matter to me. Have a good sleep tonight Oh and more Our Relationship Let's keep it secret from outsiders for now. This will also make it easier for me to protect you You will report to the company starting tomorrow. Just be my personal secretary Hey wait I can't do the job of a personal secretary. I can't sit still in that office. You let me be your secretary. I might as well do the cleaning. good This man's brain must have been chopped off by a pig's butt. Just say it casually I really became a dog. ah Isn't this my sister who is kept by a rich man? Susan, why are you here? Of course I came to work. Why I'm not saying how come my sister is still working as a cleaner Aren't you going to enjoy life with an old man? Could it be that he was dumped by someone? Shasha, this is the sister you always talk about. She doesn't look that good. Hey, you don't think so Maybe people in other aspects Is there any extraordinary ability? I don't know. You know so much. Zu Nuan, you have experience, please stop slandering me What do you do around here during working hours? noisy When this vegetable market manager This cleaning staff made our new colleague dirty. Limited edition shoes Still refusing to apologize She is the fiancee of the CEO's nephew How to do things Apologize quickly Without him, you wouldn't have enough to run your business with 10 cleaners. It turns out that the world's top 500 companies are bullying the weak Bullying the newbies Okay, you called Zong Zhengxiao. His words I'll leave immediately Zeng Zhengxiao He is Da Xia, the president of our Cloud Group. The youngest and most promising husband of the nation Don't care who you are How dare you say that person is Xiao Ye? Oh, colleagues. Come and have a look This little cleaner Said he knew Xiao Yan He also said that our president personally invited him here. Oh my god The president personally hired a small cleaning lady It's almost making me laugh to death. Ha ha ha ha Such a big tone Don't you even look at who Xiao Yan is? That's it This woman is missing her husband so much she's going crazy Our Xiao Yan He is the dream lover of all the girls in the building. I have been in Yunduan for 5 years and have never seen Xiao Yan. He is also worthy You don't believe it, right? I'm excited to call him now, right? Pack Keep pretending and see how long you can act. Hey uncle So many people are watching. I'm ashamed for you. Just in a meeting The phone is muted What's the matter with you calling me? Zhong Shangxiang, your people are going to fire me Is this what you mean? Wait a minute I'll send someone down to pick you up. You go pick up the lady. I don't know who called. You can act anytime. I didn't say sister. It's a pity that you don't squat at the door of the crew. Humph, security guard, kick this woman out! I see who dares I was invited by Zong Zhengjiao He has to come if he wants to fire me. You dare to say you know Mr. Xiao? You don't even look at who you are. I was able to get to know Mr. Xiao Throw him out to me. If you touch me again, I'll hit you back. I want to see how you fight back. Throw him out stop Idiot, who told you to treat Miss 4 like this? Su Nuan Could this be the man who supports you? I said Li Tezhu Why would you suddenly protect a little girl? It turns out that this is your little lover. What an eye-sore thing. You dare to chew any snake root? Do you know who you offended? Miss Su is our Master Xiao's person. Don't think that Youze always supports you. You can do whatever you want here. Mr. Xiao is not interested in women Everyone knows You want to protect your lover There's no need to bring up Mr. Xiao to scare me. Why is it so small? When will you come? Late night snack just after the meeting Finishing Let me pick you up first. These two also acted in Yeah, continue to act. What are you still standing there for? Kick him out of here. See who dares to make me proud How can you challenge me? where Don't you want to fuck me? Li Kezhu has such a big tone Director Li Kezhu abused his personal power Protecting his little lover Damage the company's reputation You have to make the decision for us. Mr. Xiao Ye Ze's people are also downstairs I'll go check it out I think the ones who are leaving are you and your little lover Director Zhang Trouble comes from the mouth Can you afford to offend Mr. Xiao? Director Don't be fooled by him. He just wanted to protect his little lover That night I clearly saw him carrying Su Nuan into the car You have poor eyesight You should go to the ophthalmologist right away. You're full of shit. I saw it with my own eyes You still dare to quibble, right? Throw them out to me. I will bear all the consequences. I'm afraid you can't afford the consequences. Master Throw this woman out of here. Su Nuan, I tell you This is not over yet I won't let you go And you two Pack up your things and leave immediately Xiao Yan I am blind. Please forgive me this time, Xiao Yan Director, please Please help me Please ask Xiao Yan for mercy for me Director Zhang You're the one I paid for. But work for others I think we should save this money. You don't have to go to work tomorrow. Xiao Yan Such a good space Give an office to a brainless person It's really a waste What do you mean Who is the good person with brains? I don't understand what it means to be a cleaner. So when I say cleaning, do I mean cleaning? I just rescued you. Shouldn't you be grateful to me now? You asked me to come to work in the company. In the final analysis, we are both responsible for this matter. What is there to be grateful for? oh I understand I'm paying you to do something stupid. Su Nuan is a warm and affectionate woman Why is it so incompatible with you? No wonder you can't get married That's me You just hit snort Ono from Southeast Asia I arrange Tell you something You don't go You don't leave Come on, come on, get up! You call me Aze, do you still remember? This is the restaurant we used to visit often. What's your favorite window seat? Remember? No impression Yo My sister is here too. Aze You did that on purpose, didn't you? You know that we have always Sister, what nonsense are you talking about? Aze and I are truly in love Aze, you still haven't remembered? We met three years ago I know you have everything. And I'm just an illegitimate daughter who can't see the light of day I have nothing but A Zi. I beg you I beg you Please be so kind as to help us. It's a pity that Susan doesn't go into acting. Sister, I didn't know you liked my boyfriend. If I had known this earlier, I would have given it to you. But now I'm pregnant Azhe's child you You even have children. Susan, you are just as cheap as your mother. Enough Even if you are Shanshan's sister I won't let you hurt her. Shanshan and I are getting married soon I don't want to see something like this happen again. Yes, sister. By then You must come to our wedding. Feel sorry I don't have the habit of laughing at other people. I wish you a long and happy life in advance What is your relationship with Zong Zhize? I didn't sell it to you. I have nothing to do with anyone It has nothing to do with you. Lao Hu, your employees have a problem with their work attitude Can I file a complaint? What trouble has Su Zhua made again? I mean if I need anything Will he cooperate with all my actions? Don't worry about this Xiao Ye will definitely cooperate with him 100% Have any questions Tell me directly Is there a problem now or not? No problem at the moment Hang up first. I don't care what your relationship is with him. In short, during the mission You are my wife I won't allow you to have an affair with any man. OK Dress nicely tomorrow. Come with me to the wedding Master, I finally see you. I'm here I have a business to discuss with you. Can't you take a step to talk good Bring the lady in first. OK ma'am please Hey, where is Nuan Nuan? It's so deceptive. I don't know I am now the female companion of Zong Zhengze's uncle Appeared at his wedding It's outrageous Wang Zhonger Just wait and see the show What do you mean? Hey Madam, this is the place for midnight snack. Just sit here and wait. Yo My sister has changed her man after just a few days of not seeing him. Go away. Sister, I know you are unwilling Aze chose me But you can't eat anything you want Follow any old man I didn't expect you to be so casual. Even this kind of stuff can be eaten I thought you just lost your memory. I didn't expect you to lose your brain. Can't you tell this is his White Lotus quote? Anyway I still want to thank my sister for helping me and A Zi. You're welcome Anyway, I can be seduced by you What good stuff could it be? I also want to thank you for helping me see you. Oops, I suddenly remembered Aunt Mei seemed to like Aze very much before Now I marry him for you This can be regarded as a way for Aunt Mei to die with peace of mind. You deserve to kick my mom Sister, how could you hit me? Su Nuan quickly apologized to Shanshan Facing a mistress who stole her sister's boyfriend What do I have to apologize for? Su Nuan, this is not the place for you to sit So where should I sit? The people sitting here are all Aze's elders. What qualifications do you have to sit here? security guard Get this woman out of here. Who said he didn't have the qualifications? Oh, my second brother When did you arrive Why didn't you notify me? I'll pick you up. My sister-in-law was delayed by something just now I'm late. Not too late It hasn't started yet. This is not a little episode The woman signed and couldn't find her position We are processing it now. This is her place Second Uncle You know her Of course there is a problem? Oh, my second brother Are you mistaken? This woman is Shanshan's sister Our seats are at the main table. How can she sit here? Sister-in-law She is my wife If not here, where else should I sit? What second brother? ah Are you eager to get the inheritance of the Zongzheng family? You just found a random woman out there and married her, right? Sister-in-law You think too much I have a good relationship with Nuan Nuan uh-huh What to do Take this opportunity to let everyone know our relationship Just enough to hide This is so many people I'll tell you quickly. I haven't heard that Song Zhongxiang has a woman before. Now in front of so many people and the media Public identity Looks like he's serious. They are so sweet. I don't know how many times more beautiful she is than the bride and groom. I'm obsessed with this CP Bitch I am the protagonist of today's wedding. The most brilliant person should be me You are so prominent here. Sister, when did you get married? How come I don't know Ahaha I forgot to tell you But now I'm officially informing you That's right Aze Should you call me auntie now? Aze Should you call me auntie now? Su Nuan Wait a little longer until I get the inheritance rights. I will definitely take you back from Zhong Zhongxiao Aunt Good nephew Don't complain that the big red envelope given by aunt is too little. Hahaha The marriage is about to begin. I'll take them to get ready. Gone Gone What happened to each one? After the two sisters married into the same wealthy family There are so many stories. But Master Xiao is much more powerful than his nephew. It's still unknown who will win between the two of them. Now his nephew has already married with a baby. To the end It is still unclear who the head of the Zhongzheng family is. Dear Guests Please The bride and groom enter our wedding hall at this time Our big screen now Playing the sweet memories of the two It's an honor to be with them Recalling the romance and warmth of the past How about the photo? Is it shocking? What photos Look at the big screen What's going on Aze, what's wrong with you? Are you feeling uncomfortable? It must be my sister's doing. I just knew it He will never let us get married. I actually took this kind of photo. Ruined our wedding Aze, please don't blame your sister. I know he just likes you too much Slander me He is slandering me It turns out that Su Nuan was abandoned by Zong Zongze Then he got Xiao Yan. Actually did such a thing Isn't that shameless? Obviously a scumbag Why did they put the blame on my sister during the trial? Mr. Zong Zhengze May I ask if you still liked your sister two months ago? How did you have a child with your sister? Is it an affair? This picture is p Can't you see? Who allowed you in? Report to the police and get them all out Got it I'll prove it to you. Ahaha It turns out that Susan, you have already hooked up with Zong Zhengze Still pregnant You're talking nonsense, so you're not pregnant? You still haven't hooked up with Zong Zhengze? You see clearly I got pregnant a month ago. Pregnancy test report is here Is it possible to fake it? That Shanshanshanshan Are you okay? Are you okay? Shanshan Shanshan Are you okay? ah I'm sorry for exercising. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Stop filming. Stop filming. Okay, stop filming. Stop filming. Come come come I don't think you're done yet. What good intentions You deliberately came to disrupt the wedding like this He lost his balance and fell down. What does it have to do with me? Anyway Shanshan has Aze's child Although there was a little accident at the wedding But it's a solution From now on Shanshan is the daughter-in-law of our Zongzheng family Friendly reminder during pregnancy If you get hit It is likely to affect the child's intellectual development I suggest you take him to get checked out right away. Shanshan will take you to the hospital No, no If the child has any problem I have a feeling Is it possible that he is faking pregnancy? Sister-in-law Nuannuan and I have something else to do, so we'll leave first. Give way Prevent problems before they happen After all, if you really wait 10 months for the baby to be born It's too late to regret Yeah, that's what I said That makes sense. no Shanshan, where is it? Otherwise, let's go to the hospital. Mom, it's okay. I don't need to go to the hospital I'm just a little tired I want to go back and rest now. Mom, since Shanshan doesn't want to go Don't embarrass her. I'll take her home to rest first. It's not right to wait until the party to go This mother It's all my fault. This wedding can't go on properly. Ouch, what stupid things are you talking about? You didn't mean it. In my opinion, it's your sister who is too ignorant. It's only today that this happened That's true. You said Aze and I didn't invite reporters over. How come a reporter suddenly appeared? I don't know who invited me. Don't worry about this. Leave it to me and your dad. Aze quickly took Shanshan back Have a good rest Don't get too tired Hello, grandson Song Zhenxiang What are you shouting? Look at you Look at the good things you did. Couple photos trending Isn't this great? Cover up Free publicity for us If you don't want to leave after the mission is over You can continue to live here I'm telling you I'll leave as soon as the mission is over. I never thought of making a fake come true Don't tell me nonsense. I didn't say anything That's what they said They said it was because of you at the wedding That day I What are you doing What's wrong with me Ms. Su Is this distance a bit too close? I'll sleep on the sofa tonight and you'll sleep on the bed You sleep on the sofa and I sleep on the bed The woman I, Song Zhongxiao, like will never get away in this life. Wife, we still have a long way to go. Are you sure you want to buy me clothes? My dad will be back home tomorrow. Must meet his daughter-in-law Pick any one here Calculate tooling Someone is watching from behind Don't look back Who did you mess with? There are people lying in broad daylight I'll go out and see What should I do if you leave? You are my bodyguard What do I have? Love is responsible Then you go out with me. I really can't run anymore. Let's take a break. You're so physically weak. I have to keep following you. I will go back by myself after exercise You go back first. But my grandfather let me Good good good Oops, I lost again. Come again, another plate Water is afraid of water Hey Grandpa This is obviously a scam to get money. Deceptive Oh, you mentioned that, I remembered I just encountered a scam abroad I didn't make it to my grandson's wedding. Now I'm finally back. Encountered this scam again Ouch, this year is not good. The little sister watched the chess game without saying a word Aren't you hiding? What is chess? It's different. I didn't give grandpa any advice. I'm talking about your chess game. Liar, are you deaf? I am fair and square The old man is happy to play I am willing to accompany Who did I fool? Your chess game is clearly a dead end. No matter how you play, you can't win And said it's not a lie The bitch beats people for money Do you know what the consequences are? When I was scared Little girl, call the police! It's okay, grandpa, there are only a few of them. Not enough exercise Don't worry. Protect yourself My little sister is not very old You're quite arrogant, brothers. looking at the city like i already know it Grandpa, are you okay? I'm fine Hey Girl, I have something to do. I'm leaving first Ah, Grandpa, you Hey, he looks like an old man. Are you okay? I'm fine, you can ask them. Mom Lin, long time no see. Master, this is my wife Hey, you finally brought your new wife back. Let me introduce you This is Lin's mother Watching me grow up Hello, auntie Good, good, good Come in quickly Walk Eat fruit My second brother is back Yo Isn't this Sister Shanshan? Lin Ma How come everyone can eat these twenty dollar apples? Lin Ma, it's alright. Go down first Hey, okay, okay, come on, come on Where is my eldest brother? He is resting upstairs. My sister Old man I just want to meet my new wife. Don't be afraid Although the old man has a bit of a weird temper But he is very nice. My brother is about to retire It's not a big deal to stay at home. Ah, I was thinking When I met the company's manager After all, the group also has its doubts. ah Dad just came back What are you saying this for? Why can't I say it? Now, Lao Er and A Ze are already married. Shouldn't we mention the company's shares? Being a crappy professor for life Nowadays, even the family expenses have become a problem. Who saw them What's the problem with expenses? It's just unreasonable. How am I being unreasonable? I've been married to you for so many years I'll be your nanny and take care of you I will give you a baby Look at my clothes again. Shanshan bought it for me. Those precious international brands How much did you buy for me? enough oops I have lived with you all these years I'm not angry, you How dare you hit me oops Good me I fought with you My mom What are you doing? Oh go You are finally back Your father has become more capable. He actually hit me Who am I doing this for? I am doing this for you. To take over the Zongzheng family business? dad You can't hit my mother anyway. Besides, mom is right. I can also inherit the Zhongdong family's property. Sister, why did you just watch mom get beaten? I know you are usually cold-blooded. But you can't watch the show here at this time. Which hill is it on? Sing the folk song of which family Now you should call me aunt Besides This is not my mom. It's none of my business The master asked the two new wives to come upstairs to meet him. You are a good daughter-in-law. Yes, Grandpa Who told you to call me grandpa? Kneel down ah Kneel down No, no Grandpa I Did I do something wrong? I made you so angry. Do you want me to say it a second time? Pretty tolerant Don't go to Azhe to complain about me. No matter what You are right to teach your granddaughter-in-law a lesson I just don't know what I did. Make you unhappy But if kneeling makes grandpa happy I'd like to kneel Scheming Go call the second son's wife over. Good Grandpa Will this scare them? If he is frightened by this little trick Then he is not worthy of being the daughter-in-law of the Zhongzheng family. Grandpa asked you to come in. Let's see how long you can be so arrogant. You'll see what happens when you go in. master Kneel down What Oh, this is mysterious Why so familiar? It's you Grandpa hahahaha It's you Hahaha grandfather ha Oh, you are our daughter-in-law. It seems like hahaha Hey Xiao Wang Sweep the floor clean Don't hurt my daughter-in-law, haha Grandpa, you are oops I originally wanted to give this to my wife who has trouble sleeping with men and women. A show of strength How would I know it was you? Haha Hahaha Grandpa, look Isn't this a coincidence? Ha ha Call grandpa ah Dad, hahaha I knew you were my old man's daughter-in-law. Why should I go to so much trouble? Hahahaha Xiao Wang notified them to eat It's the master who has no tricks, hahahaha Why Boss, this is how Tai Chi works. Hey, rub your hands like this Hey, your hand is wrong. Are you going to try to let me have a grandchild? Is this true, Dad? Dad, I don't plan to have a baby so soon. Hey, that doesn't matter. You and your second child should adopt one. When he comes back, he will be your son. I'll come back The inheritance ship was transferred like this When would you like to give birth? When will it be born? Still like this What's wrong Sure. I mean, add a child to Zongzheng's family. That doesn't mean you have to have money to give birth, right? I'm not cheating. You are really reasonable. Old Man Have dinner Don't let my wife get hungry. Why Let's go try your mother's cooking. Second brother, since mom passed away Dad rarely talks so much to people. You found a good wife, haha. You guys are more boring than each other. It's annoying to look at Or our home is the most suitable for me Come and eat vegetables Eat more. Thank you, Dad. It's not good to be thin. Sun Yang, right? Hey, leave the responsibility to you and Nuannuan to me. I have to hug my grandson. good I try hard Sun Guan You are mine I'll get you back sooner or later. Grandpa seems to like Sister Wu very much He won't be biased then. grandfather You seem to like your aunt very much Your words won't count, right? Why Oh haha How do I talk to grandpa? Your young age Are you deaf? I said Between you and your second uncle, who will give birth to a child first? Who is the heir? I won't change a word of what I said. grandfather Shanshan is already pregnant You better wait until you give birth. Hahahaha that's right Aze, why are you in such a hurry? Wait a few months anyway He can only count after the child is born. No one can gossip about it, right? Is there something wrong with this child? Why don't you express your opinion? Warm Is everything okay at your house? My parents are all good. Thank you for your concern, Grandpa Hey, I'm talking to Nuan Nuan, why are you shooting? The family eats like this I'm full of it. You two, eat more. Go back and rest Okay Slow down. No more eating Su Nuan, this bitch It's me who's pregnant The protagonist should be me. He appeared in front of everyone like a star surrounded by moons The old man didn't even look at me. This isn't easy. A wealthy family like Zong Zheng There must be no room for anything that would damage one's reputation. If Su Nuan did something that would bring disgrace to the family I want to see how he can still be so arrogant you mean Find two people to ruin his reputation. Take a video and post it online Will Zong Zhengxiao still want him? This matter is not resolved Hehe mom Or do you have a way? Su Nuan, I wonder how you can still show off in front of me. The universe in my heart only wants to rely on my hands two Uh, our car has arrived. We're leaving first. Bye-Bye Our car has arrived. We are leaving Be safe. Send a message home Why haven't you come back yet? Li Dazhu on the back of the car You can I opened my first order at the age of 24. Catch up with your sister I'm so scary Um Hello What It's time to give birth Senior Sister Do you think it's okay? My wife is giving birth Go to the hospital quickly Please call me a designated driver Good job You're going to be a father soon. My car basement smells Don't let me get the chance. thank you one Yo The one coming at me looks familiar If there is anything, I will take a video for you later and you will know. Just a few of you little hooligans are not enough to fill the gaps between our teeth Come on me Sneak attack on you You kicked me, you little bastard I'll kill you Xiao Yan You better see who I am. It's still time to get out now. Don't trust him I have already offended Xiao Yan today. Death on both sides Fight hard and survive Brothers, come on. ah Why ah oops sorry 1 egg Who said men can't faint at blood? sorry This time it was really because of me that you got hurt Whatever you say is right All right? You still have some conscience. It's going to hurt a bit. Please bear with it Why It hurts, it hurts, be quiet. Be careful not to leave scars, I tell you. Do you mind What do you mind? You are my wife I want you to see all of mine. Do you mind that I have scars? I We The task is I'll leave after the mission is over. Give to whomever you like Hey hey hey I touched your wound. Sorry, sorry. It hurts, it hurts, it hurts Hey, don't move. You'll be fine just like this Come on you You take it easy Don't be so nervous Yeah, relax. that's all Why Extremely Are you done? Director Zhang said it was supported by Miss Su Er Teach the lady a lesson Susan Walk Go see my good nephew Xiaoshu, how come you are free today? Come to me Take care of your woman Next time we won't be a group of people anymore, Xiao Shu What happened? What happened to Shanshan? Do you have any misunderstanding about him? Can you ask him yourself? I hope you keep my words in mind. ah Come to me and show off Zhong Zhengxiao, wait until my child is born. Hum, wait until I take the position of the head of the family I want to see how you can still act so arrogantly in front of me What if Aze found out that I faked my pregnancy to deceive him? Then I'm dead. We must find a way to conceal this. Idiot, you can't even do this little thing. Su Nuan You won't be so nice next time. What is mom Now Aze put all his bets on me Cold Water What if he found out that I was faking my pregnancy? Then I'm dead. Since this matter has arisen again Then he will have to bear all the consequences. What are you staring at me for? Don't let Do not let I'm hurt, and you're still lying to me. Who lied to you? that Hurry up and do it My eldest brother just called and asked us to go back to our hometown for dinner. oh uncle Looks like I'm going to win this time. You also know The rules set by grandpa No one can change Congratulations first Your grandfather's rules are ridiculously lenient Okay? Are you okay? Okay, okay. My second brother, when are you going to marry Nuan Nuan? No hurry, let him prepare first What am I preparing? I don't need You are so anxious How about our class next week? I mean I don't need a wedding. Uncle, I toast to you with this glass of wine. Which dish is delicious? Try this Aunt Your second uncle will drive later. Forget it My sister is called aunt This glass of wine was originally intended to toast my uncle. But he wants to drive Then please bring it. I dare not drink the wine you offer me Shanshan Let's see if the child has any future. Shanshan Why don't you send him to the hospital? Go, go, go, hurry up elder sister I know you are jealous of the baby in my belly But it doesn't matter what you do to me Children are innocent Why did you attack my child? Su Nuan If my child has any problem I won't let him go. I didn't touch him Don't worry, what's the point of being anxious? How is he? Say it The child was not saved Adults need to take care of themselves Send it to the ward now. Doctor, are you mistaken? Shanshan just fell down. How come the child is gone? Please be quiet. This is a hospital. A 4-month-old fetus is inherently unstable. If you don't pay attention, you may have the risk of miscarriage. What's more, he fell down. It's all you If it weren't for you Shanshan won't fall either. The child won't fall. You compensate my grandson You have to pay for my grandson. You pay My grandson, you have to pay for it. open What time is it? You're protecting him. This woman caused our Zou Zheng family to be wiped out. He should marry our ancestor. Kneeling before the ranking Zou Zhengyue, please say something You are dead Oh, it's already this time What's the point of saying this? Now let's see how Shanshan is doing. Go Go Go Shanshan Don't be too sad if your child is gone. You are still young Take care of your body first By then, the child will soon be born again. I'm not careful. Why am I going to toast for no reason? I was just really happy to see my uncle and sister come back. So you did it on purpose Right? You came back this time just to abort my child Yeah Zong Zheze, are you here to make people laugh? He had to come to see me. What does it have to do with me? Your sister It was you who bumped into me. So you are my sister I don't blame you But it's really chilling for you to talk like that. You wicked woman Since you are so sad Why don't you go see the child? The embryo is already formed at 8 weeks And I asked the doctor He was the only one who had a miscarriage last night. I'll go check it out Oh, don't I'll go check it out Don't go to Aze I heard the doctor say in the operating room Such a poor kid. I really can't bear to watch it. Sister, how could you bear it? Weren't you unconscious in the operating room? How can I still hear the doctor talking? Me Oh, I forgot to tell you. Although the fetus in Bazhou has taken shape But only as big as a grape and Doctors don't say that in the operating room. Are you dreaming? I still feel guilty I did faint. But I can still hear it vaguely Hmmmm My child Don't worry, I will never let our children Walking without knowing why Don't think you can get away with it. We're all watching. When Shanshan was toasting you with a glass of wine, you tripped him. What else do you have to argue? I didn't trip him at all. You didn't trip him. Did she fall on purpose while she was pregnant? How could our Zongzheng family have a daughter-in-law like you? Leave now I don't want to see you anymore Yurong, stop talking. Wanan Can't you just bow your head and admit your mistake? I believe you tripped Shanshan accidentally. Big Brother Why To apologize Second uncle is a family The right and wrong should be clarified OK Where is the evidence? Could it be that Shanshan dropped the baby herself? Ah, that's hard to say. Have you got the surveillance footage of Li Tezhu's old house? Have you got the surveillance footage of Li Tezhu's old house? Xiao Ye's surveillance video has been sent to you. Take a look See? The two people didn't even meet. What's going on? This is so complicated Why did Shanshan fall down for no reason? Then we have to ask him. Since we are not welcome here Let's go Tell me why I fell My husband, I don't know what happened. Just fell down Then the child was gone Husband, don't blame me ah Ahhh Ah Qiu, have you been bribed by Zhong Mingqiang? I am your wife How can you do this to me? You lost the child you gave Shanshan What's the point of blaming him? The most urgent task is to get Shanshan back to health. Raise another child You have a chance to turn things around. Yes, Aze. I'll be fine soon. We will have children again, Aze Ze Aze Aze Hello Mr. Mu I agree to cooperate with you As long as you can help me bring down Zhong Yongxiao I will agree to any conditions. I wish us a pleasant cooperation Xiaoye Several partners in Southeast Asia Frequent contact with Song Zhengze The cooperation project for next year has been delayed. It's very likely that he poached her. Zong Zhengze Want to play Then have fun with him. And our capital flow is limited All the money is invested in new energy electric vehicles If we sign the big order for our Nordic subsidiary This will activate the cash flow otherwise Mr. Xiao, the Nordic evaluation representative has arrived at the meeting room. Do you want to go over now? I heard that this European assessment team More than a dozen first-tier companies were eliminated. And this chief judge is out Notoriously picky Go and have a look yes Oh, look, look. Such a beautiful girl wearing such simple work clothes It's just a burst of heaven. Come tie it for you Take a look, isn't it much better looking? Wow, you understand so well. Can you teach me? Show me what I can wear first. Pizza Nuannuan, you work here. It's really you. Who are you? Let me introduce my wife Su Nuan to you. Oh my god, he is actually Xiao Yan's wife No wonder the boss was so nice to me last time I envy Su Nuan so much I also want a CEO husband Hum, what is there to envy? Little Warm Tell me now Are you going to kiss me or this stinky man? Hey, if I say I'm not close to Zong Zhengxiao Will he complain to the boss that I am not cooperating with the work? We are all family Hahahaha snort Xiao Nuannuan, you said you would protect me Look at this stinky man. My mouth is about to eat me up Oh, he won't. It's okay. This is a private company matter. After get off work processing Please this go out Why Don't come here, these stinky men are so dirty stop I came here today for business. Pika, why are you here? Everyone is waiting for you in the conference room. Assistant Sun Could he be the chief judge sent by Northern Europe? Xiao Nuannuan, I will come to play with you later I don't know what treasure I found. Hum stupid man The young master sent a photo of the 4S shop being in trouble. This guy is called Wei Ming. The last person to come into contact with the old lady's car Send photos to your phone Don't tell him it is Second uncle was late for the first cooperation Do you think this cooperation is not important at all? Zongzhengjia When is your turn to speak first? oops It turns out that the last competitive seat belongs to a family. So what's there to talk about? This gentleman I represent this time My own pinnacle company It doesn't mean we respect our family. Yo This is a battle between uncle and nephew. I like watching people fighting among themselves. This is our cooperation for the next three years. Planning proposal Please take a look Your company's plan Our Cloud Group will not cooperate with the Nordic Alliance Yo Handsome guy, will you give up a 50 billion project for your wife? There's no rule that I can't give up. Can But I just discovered that you are also a person of taste. Know that our Nuan Nuan is a treasure Well, I decided Nordic agency rights in Asia for the next three years I'll leave it to you, the handsome guy from Cloud Group. How about it I don't We think wrong It's not fair You didn't do any assessment. Just like this, through personal relationship Give him the contract I don't agree You The clothes are too bad I don't like to hang out with people who have no taste. But Mr. Pitt You haven't read my plan yet No need Pete's Preferences It is the unanimous vote of our Nordic fashion community. Please don't bother me anymore. Okay, that's it. Oh, by the way, Zeng Zhengxiao is fine. Teach your nephew how to behave I don't even know what family is. Huh Ouch Warm baby, remember to think of me ah Zhong Zhengxiao wants to play with me, right? Then I'll play with you till the end Hello You guys can start now. I want Zhong Zhengxiao to lose all his money Warm Please come pick me up when I return home. Brought you something good. OK, I know. knew Who to chat with My best friend Lin Xiaxia Why do you want to talk to her? Lin Xiaxia You and she both graduated from St. Alice's College You investigate me? Who investigates you? After eating, the umbrella exploded again Okay, I won't eat with you. Hello What do you mean? Your other best friend Mr. Peter Huang He told me this when he left I really didn't expect this. You are still a chip student You didn't ask me Besides, what does this have to do with my job as a bodyguard? So it seems My new electric car chip has been found Stop it I haven't touched this stuff for a long time. Then I should ask your boss. This bodyguard has special skills But unwilling to serve the employer How should this account be calculated? Hey hey hey I only do pre-development You can handle the later product development by yourself. good Who can exploit you more than my father? Here it comes Mr. Zongzhu How did your company achieve this in such a short time? It has launched the most cutting-edge new energy vehicle chip Was there any unexpected help? Yes, it is. Got help from a top chip genius But he just wants to live a peaceful life Unwilling to reveal identity Please respect his opinion. Thank you everyone, thank you Wait, get off the bus and wait for me. Don't worry, I will definitely give you the money. I'll have someone wire the money to you in a minute. Did Aze have a nightmare again? I know You must be stressed out by the children. Right, because I was pregnant As a result, we couldn't be together on our wedding night. Can you fulfill my wish today? It's all because of you As long as I Susan, don't think about it for a day Do you want to make more money? Hey, tell me what's going on. Hello sister I'm Shanshan Haven't seen you for a while I miss you so much. It's ok. I'm hanging up. I suddenly remembered your mother's car accident A word before leaving Please don't bring it to me, I forgot Why don't you go to dad's house and tell him in person? I'll be there soon Master, are you going to Kangning Huayuan Community, Fuding Road? Get on board Let's go ah Hey Get out of your gentle place now If you don't come back, I'll catch you. Oh, I know. You're calling When have I not appeared? Let's play with the little ghost Right? It will appear naturally after I have finished having fun. See you anytime I I I rely on This is the first time I've seen such a cruel woman. Oh, stop hitting me, stop hitting me, stop hitting me, stop hitting me explain Who sent you? Shanshanshanshan Who let me beat him? Susan That's really good. That's really cruel. What is your relationship with this Susan? What deep hatred? You won't steal her husband, will you? Who are you? I saw through his fake pregnancy and marriage scam. He was seeking revenge. This Zong Zhengze also lost his memory It's not that my brain is broken Don't you know how to check the truth? You deserve to be cheated He is Zong Zhengze's wife Do you know him? Then I should discipline his wife for him. Oh, oh, oh, oh Why did you call the police? well Encountering this kind of thing Usually I will always treat people in their own way. Do you want to try it? What do you mean? This is in Cloud City I dare not say anything else I'll take care of the hospital matters. Just one phone call. You're not going to brag about me, are you? Hahaha I, Yan Yiming, have been active in the love field for so many years What kind of woman have I never seen? In the end, I made them all obedient. He is so cautious. Immediately show him his true form Hey Why Wait for me You're quite skilled. I have something better to try. Spare my life, lady hey-hey Hello, President Sun Help me find out about a miscarriage of a woman named Susan. Inspection Report Send it to me later Good Master Aze, let's go eat Chongqing hotpot later. Susan How dare you lie to me? What's this Aze, where are you from? Listen to me Someone must be trying to frame me. How could I lie to you? Still want to quibble This was sent to me personally by the hospital director. He has fired the doctor you bribed. Come and apologize to me in person. This could be fake Ah Ze, listen to me. I didn't mean to deceive you. I love you too much Aze, please Can you please forgive me, Aze? ah How dare this bitch lie to me Do you know that you have been planning for so long? You ruined all the plans. Arsen, I can't breathe. I can't breathe. oops What are you doing? Please let go! Ah Shanshan Oh, what are you doing? Shanshan, are you okay? Why on earth is Aze treating Shanshan like this? Mom wants to divorce him How dare you say divorce? How long have you been married? You're getting a divorce. Our Zongzheng family has a strict family tradition for generations. How do you let outsiders see you? What do you think of our Zongzheng family? I can't care so much anymore This woman I can't stand it for a day Aze Have you forgotten your grandfather's promise? As long as you have a child Then you can have a family business If you get divorced now Then the family business will be handed over to others You are moving nonsense mom This woman deceived us. She wasn't pregnant at all. Mom, I didn't mean to lie to you. I love Aze so much I want to continue his legacy. Mom, please Please forgive me this time Okay, mom? It's come to this You two should hurry up and have a baby. The important thing is to fulfill grandpa's conditions But mom I have always liked Su Nuan Not him He is from a small province. How can you enter our Zongzheng family? Aze You regained your memory Don't worry about it From now on My affairs have nothing to do with you. Walk Come with me to get a divorce now Aze stop Nuannuan is your aunt now Do you really want to disgrace the Zongzheng family? ah Make trouble again I kneel down to go Aze Su Nuan Nuan is already married to Zong Zheng Xiao And I don't like him either. Shanshan is still well-behaved and sensible You should know The most important thing now is to get the inheritance rights This is not the time for you to fool around. Susan, let's have a baby as soon as possible. After you give birth to your child I'll give you some money Then it disappeared from my sight Hey hey hey Why are you asking for a fight? You are so ruthless. At least I stayed with you for a few hours. Besides, I was a driver again. After all, we two are friends. Give me your phone number Phone number Phone number Phone number Drift bottle communication Ma'am, it's great that you're back. I'll open the elevator for you. Be careful with your step Madam, you are finally back. I'll call my boss right now. Why are these two so weird? I'm back that It went quite smoothly. Today's meeting is over How about I pour you some water? It's time for dinner Let's go eat Boss, you File reverse come over Yo A medical miracle I cured a little mute Where did you go? I went out for a walk Why can't I call my cell phone? Lost it Lost Where is it lost? I want to take him home The one I love is me Uh, that I'm hungry I'm going to eat return You must tell me when you go out next time Why should you tell me? You are my wife Remember what I say, you must listen I'm fine. Walk Take you to dinner Hi, long time no see. Mr. Yan, long time no see. Please come in. Why oh Not the friend you mentioned. It's this big butterfly. know Unknown But who in the city doesn't know the romantic and suave Yan Shaoyun? When did you come? Just arrived this morning What happened? I just happened to come across A very intense sister fight I stepped forward with great interest. In the end, they didn't appreciate it and came to you for dinner. What a coincidence Why Whether this is a coincidence or not depends on what the parties involved say. Hey, you When did I have a confidante by my side? Don't introduce me I didn't bring you with me today. Come on, how about I call you and ask him to be mine? Then you have to ask him if he agrees to cheat. Mr. Yan, right? What about us? Don't know Introduce My name is Su Nuan With Mr. Zong Zhengxiao A relationship with a marriage certificate Oh, you are his wife. True or false It's not a contract marriage for some purpose, right? Hey hey hey Hey, husband. Young and quite humorous Um yes He is useless except for his bad mouth. They don't even have a child yet, but they're already starting to hate each other. Love to laugh, I tell you You called me today. I'm just arguing with Xiao Ming under the waterfall. As a result, your phone call disrupted my plan As a result, when I came here, you two were still following each other. How wronged I am! If you don't want to eat You can go away. You two are in a fake marriage, right? Are you kidding? snort This young master has seen countless people I can still tell the difference between love and not love What's holding hands? The look in your eyes when you two communicated Clearly a stranger Still want to deceive me Mr. Yuan, you are too confident. Hehehe Then I'll prove it to you. Give us two bottles of XO 4 bottles of Romanee-Conti This one Even if it is my news blessing to you If you don't drink That means you are fake. No, no, no If I don't eat a few more bites, I'll throw up. You are awesome The two kinds of wine were mixed together hahaha Finish it with the last cup If you don't drink, you are fake. Is that ok? Give me a name brother You are such a hottie. I hope you can hold on. Send this beauty to the hotel next door Brother, I can only help you so far. You can handle the rest by yourself. No no no I'm just tired Tian Yiming, let me tell you I can't drink you down my sister Drink eight and you bring it back and forth I won't accompany you if you turn around. Call me tomorrow morning to tell me the good news What good news? What good news does he announce? Come back, I'm Mother I didn't feed you. My earrings will fall off if anyone hugs me Did you trip me? I didn't trip you. admit It's definitely you Admit it, right? It's really not me Clean you up you ah Are you comfortable? It's you My husband is really good looking. Why is it so hot? Do you have a fever? Didn't you sleep? Hey You hold me down What to watch nice Do not watch Oh no Oh no I'm going to sleep This is my bed go away Then where do I sleep? casual I'm telling you Don't think I don't know You take away that quilt every day Still pressing me My arms are numb every morning when I wake up. You know, no response yet. Obviously obeyed Submission I tell you If it weren't for the mission, I wouldn't be here. I want to find out the truth about my mother's murder. There must be a problem I'll help you check warm My dear mother is back home I'll be waiting for you to welcome me in prison. I saw the news in my country. Are you and Zhong Zhenxiao developing so fast? What can I develop with him? We are work I didn't get this Outstanding Journalism Award for nothing. You can't fool my eyes Hey, isn't that Zong Runze? Enemies always meet on a narrow road Don't mention it to me. Oh, this is such a disgusting feeling You don't really like his uncle, do you? No You say it again No No means no Go to the toilet Warm Tell you Wait until I get our Zongzheng family's property You are my Zongzheng family's young lady What else are you dissatisfied with? Mr. Zhe, you drank too much. I'll go to the hotel next door to take a rest. Mr. Song When you were with me before I don't want to get a room. Now, he is actually with Mr. Zhong, that old Things How am I inferior to him? I had planned everything well. When Susan gave birth to a baby I'll come find you when I get the inheritance Now it's all messed up Blame Susan That bitch How dare you lie I am Susan It's all your fault You see clearly None of my business Not angry, not angry Keep smiling Okay, Mr. Jia. Let's go back to the hotel first. Smile Leave it to me Who are you? Dead Warm I am here Dare to lie to me I killed you. Who are you afraid of? ah Who beat you up like this, husband? He must pay the price actually I can't remember it either. I drank too much alcohol. I don't know who took me to the toilet. There should be surveillance in the club. Let them turn on the surveillance. They are responsible for what happens to customers in their store. I'll go find their boss. mom I told you it was in the bathroom. Where is the surveillance? Please stop making trouble. No, how can we just let this go? So what do you want? I want to sleep Stop bothering me. Gone Mom Book your flight to Hawaii now Must leave today I'll do it right away. Madam, would you like to join us? I heard Zong Zhengze was beaten up. But he hasn't settled the score with the other party yet. Did you know this? I don't know Your Zongzheng family is in full force in Yuncheng. Is there anyone who dares to hit him? There are only a few people in Yuncheng who can cure him. But it's better to let him suffer a little Um Let me go Why let go You threw yourself at me. Can't you ask for some compensation? I pounce I didn't mean it. Kiss me again and then let go you Why do you suddenly bow your head? It's your initiative rogue Mrs Where are Zhong Zhengxiao and others? Why are you idle all day long? Mr. Xiao is busy I might be back late tonight. He warned Let you sleep first I didn't wait for him Who waited for him? I'm watching TV. It's been so many days. No one is seen all day long I don't know what I'm busy with That spice company of Xiao Nini is very suspicious I'm worried they smelled something. We must be extra careful about this matter Don't worry, Mr. Dong I will never let anyone who wants to see my death succeed. What's going on with me recently? We will isolate you in time Good to hear you say that. I feel relieved. I have been working with your father for so many years. Now I join hands with you again I feel that the Zongzheng lineage really has a successor. Mr. Tang, you are so kind. Mrs You are back You are here Song Chuanxiao is in there The boss is accompanying the client Why don't you go sit in the cafe downstairs for a while? Eat something Wait till the boss is done. I will naturally find you. Get me out Ouch What kind of guest is this? It's so important. Ah, this lady You know Mr. Ou's temper. If he doesn't finish it I will never see you or But you see, I'm tired after walking around all day. Isn't that where I live? I think it's okay to go in and rest for a while. If I let you go today My boss immediately told me to get out Please consider that I am loyal to you. Please forgive me. It's you Hey ma'am, please don't embarrass me. There is no place that I, Su Nuan, cannot enter Zong Zhengxiang, I'll catch you in the act See what you say Okay, I won't make it difficult for you. But you see, I've been here all day. I'm tired of carrying things. Why don't you help me carry it? No problem, no problem Why did you open the door suddenly? Scare me Are you a child? Also sneak attack What's your attitude? You think I want to be here? If you weren't so mysterious all the time I don't know what I'm doing I don't want to stay here. This makes me sneaky. I'm like a thief Did You Know What are you looking at me for? There are flowers on my face No flowers It's a shame What are you doing? Zhong Zhengxiao I Why What are you looking for? Can't I take a look? You are jealous Looking for a woman, right? You are jealous How could I be jealous? What are you doing Xiao Ye Xiao Ye Incompetent subordinates Didn't stop Madam Xiao I seem to be lazy. Hey, little master I have arranged what you asked. You see I see It's OK Change clothes and go out to play Go out and play. Didn't you say you were busy all day? If you don't want to go, I can cancel it. Then we're in the room. Ah, go out and play Are you happy? How do you know today is my birthday? You are my wife I know your birthday for sure. Whatever wish you just made must have something to do with me Less narcissism It has nothing to do with you. Open it and see Come and bring it to you Actually, you don't need to do this. We are just fake marriage Even if you don't do these I will still do my best to protect you So how long do you plan to let me hold the necklace? Let me make it clear first. This is outside the agreement. I would not recommend It doesn't matter if you exceed I'm gonna decide on you You want me to be your bodyguard? Bring whoever you want. So beautiful That It's a nice necklace. I'm still pretty Of course it is joke By the way, there is a charity dinner in China this weekend. Donate education funds to children in mountainous areas Do you want to go with me to see it? He's not as cold-blooded as he looks. Oh, sister This isn't your first time at an auction like this. Dressed so poorly Still wearing a diamond or not Pearls or not pearls necklace comes out Is it our Su family? I have money to buy you jewelry Or is it the Zong family that abuses you? elder sister No matter how beautifully you dress It can't cover up the dirty hearts of some people. So what this sister means is All of us here today Dirty inside. Hey, how do you talk? You two are at loggerheads. Why bring us here? yes What's wrong with liking beautiful clothes? Is it possible that your family wears this kind of beggar's clothes? I heard that Su Sheng just wanted to The three of them finally made it through Married into the Zongzheng family Of course, you have to wear gold and silver Enjoy the treatment of a wealthy wife Originally, you seduced Zong Zhengze away It's nice to be your rich wife But you have to come running to provoke me Then I can only tear off your fig leaf Suna, what do you mean? Please explain your words to me clearly. Not sure good Then I will do it in front of everyone today. Make this matter clear. Susan is a mistress Fake pregnancy and design abortion Put the blame on me All of these things can be done by humans. It's better to be clean. Otherwise, no matter how beautiful the clothes are Can't cover up your dirty heart Sister, you are spreading rumors like this in front of everyone I am seriously injured Am I not afraid of damaging the reputation of our Su family? I am your sister. Is there something good going on with everyone gathered here? Is there something good going on with everyone gathered here? Wow Madam Yan actually came in person His background is unfathomable Even the four major families have to respect him. You are warm Hello, I'm Nuan Nuan After Yiming returned to China I keep whispering about you in my ears all day My ears I'm almost calloused. See you today It's really different You've won the award Madam Yuan, do you still remember me? Looks familiar Have we met? Madam Yuan, look at you. When I married my brother, I invited you to What about Uncle Yun's? You are such a forgetful person. It makes me feel so sad. I'm sorry, Mrs. Yan. I have something else to do, so I'll leave first. Sister, why do you leave as soon as I come? Or do you not take Mrs. Yan seriously at all? You will die if you don't make trouble. I think The one who is dressed the most decently tonight is Su Nuan The necklace on her neck Looks ordinary The origin is not small Wearing such a precious necklace Not arrogant, not proud, not ostentatious This is the upbringing that the eldest lady of the Su family should have. Madam Yan How much is this necklace worth? Market value at least 20 million 20 million Late night snack It seems that he really loves the eldest daughter of the Su family. Mrs. Yan Why did you give me such an expensive necklace? Because You're Worth It Su Nuan I must get you back Ono, can you dance with me? What dance to dance Shen Zhirou You better stop using your tricks. otherwise I'm afraid I might be careless. You've revealed all the bad things you've done since you were a kid. What did Mr. Xiao say? Why can't I understand? Don't believe it? Try it Xiao Ye is joking How dare I disobey you? What you say is what you get You'd better remember this. Why Where did you go? Do you care? If I'm not here Wouldn't you be happier? Tell me who pissed you off dog Just a second ago, I was told it was settled. You're cuddling with another woman the next second, right? he Hey, your dad suddenly has a heartache. Come to the Second Hospital What I'm coming now You came in a short time What did I do to him? Why did you suddenly faint? Your dad has been working too hard lately. Busy with company matters all day I had an allergic reaction today after drinking a cup of black tea at home. The doctor said Your father fainted because he was allergic to black tea This is not rescue. Black tea allergy My dad has been drinking black tea for more than 10 to 20 years. Nothing happened Why did I suddenly become allergic? Hey, look at what you said. This guy is old. It is normal to have low immunity Not like you young people. I can't feel the pain of my age Doctor, how is my dad? Out of danger But you still need to be hospitalized for two days Thank you, doctor. Now that my dad is fine Then I have nothing left. I don't believe a word Li Lin said. 8. Fainting happened suddenly I suspect there are some clues at home Not cleaned I don't think Let's go to your house. Miss, you are back. Wu Man This is my husband. Hello, uncle Wu Ma Miss, you and your uncle finally come back. Stay for dinner. Aunt Wu, we have something else to do later. It won't take long I came here this time Mainly want to ask What happened when my dad fainted? Were you there? At that time, my wife and Mr. Su were upstairs I don't know what happened. When I heard my wife calling for help The master has fainted. I'll go see Look at the lady I don't have time to talk about my mom. Please don't be busy. Aunt, what's wrong with your arm? I got this injury myself. It's okay, it'll be fine soon. Is it Li Lin, is it that vicious woman? Let's go, we won't do it for him. The eldest lady has done me a favor. I want to stay and look after my wife's property. I'm sorry, Miss. Li Lin Recently, I often receive several vice presidents of the company at home. I took the opportunity to serve tea and went into the study They were all blasted out. She also threatened me not to let me enter the study room The wound on my arm That's why Miss, you must be more careful. Li Lin often meets the vice president at home It seems that he wants to control Mr. Su's appetite. Not really It's a pity that my dad doesn't believe what I say now I have to find a way to make him see the truth. Miss, what can I do? aunt You just need to protect yourself well. I'll send someone to install surveillance tonight I'll arrange everything later. Don't worry, I will never let my mother down. Falling into the hands of Li Lingling's woman What is the story about the burglary of Mr. Xiao's villa? My dear, you are finally back. What is going on? The police just left after understanding the situation. Also left a phone number Say what's going on You can contact them I roughly checked Nothing is lost outside. Out of your study Don't let anyone in. I just knew it Let's go check it out Did you lose something? Lost a file To be exact, it is a large amount of information. Is it important? The customers here At the same time, we are also working on national new energy research projects I met Mr. Tong in Hawaii before. One of them These customer information must not be disclosed to outsiders fine I kept a hand. That is to say The document they stole was a fake. Someone was following us. And you hire a bodyguard to protect yourself It's all because of this Not all Zhong Zhengxiao How many things are you hiding from me? What are you doing? I didn't mean to hide it from you. I'm just worried that the more you know, the more dangerous it is. Stop teasing me. I'm your bodyguard You worry about me You'd better worry about yourself. You are my wife Even if I risk my life I won't put you in any danger. We're just acting. You don't have to be so affectionate. It's already this time Do you still think I'm acting? What else? Is it to have a baby? Your dad told me everything. Adopt a child. I can still inherit your family property. Not a violation Song Nuan I like you I'm in love with you Is that clear enough? I can't let you bully me all the time. Shorten the opening I have to clean up No laughing Happy Xiao Ye found the repairman who repaired Mrs. Su's car He is in a car repair shop on Jinxiu Road Go now and go yes Weiming Why My boss has something to ask you I don't know you. Don't know Don't know Why are you running? I have something to ask you As long as you answer me honestly The 100,000 yuan in this card is all yours Okay, let him go first. Let me tell you Woo broken Where are the people? This guy is so cunning Let him run away Let him run away again. Where are you going? cough Hey, where are you going? Ah, who are you? explain Did you do something to Mrs. Su's car? I don't know what you're talking about I'm just a repairman. Today is the day you die. You also know that someone died in that car accident. If you die, the most you'll be charged with is suicide out of fear of punishment. Say or not Talk Susan, he asked me to do this. He said if I didn't do it He keeps losing this job. I also have old people and young children. I also want to support my family The bitch is indeed him Walk Come with me and surrender I want him to know the consequences of plotting against me. Hey Walk I'm not going Go away. It's not up to you. I'm not going I I killed someone etc. There is some progress on my aunt's matter real I Well Come sit down Did you eat something bad? It's okay. Xu has had some stomach discomfort these past two days. I'll just eat light food. You continue Are you sure you're okay? If you don't walk, I'll take you to the hospital for a checkup. It's really okay to go Can you tell me if there is any new clue? right I found the maintenance man who was scolded by my aunt. It's a pity that he got away. Isn't this the person who kidnapped me before? He said Susan instructed him What is kidnapping? How come I don't know Don't interrupt my train of thought. I doubt it now Susan must have ordered him to do this. Tampering with my mom's car If that's the case This all makes sense. Thank you, Prime Minister Zong Why Where are you going? Don't try to fool around. What is kidnapping all about? Yan Yiming was also there at that time. Go ask him You are my wife You are not allowed to get so close to him in the future. If you encounter any danger again, you must tell me Otherwise I will punish you OK So what about this time? How do we calculate this time? Forget it this time Just a kiss and I'll forgive you Uh uh uh I wonder how long you can hide. Wow, this one looks good too. Every set looks good Auntie really can't buy it anymore I already have a lot of clothes at home. Zhong Zhongxiao also bought it for me Oops, the bill has been settled. Will you accompany me shopping today? I am very happy Let's go and have some other fun. Yo Sister, you are also shopping here How can you be so affectionate with someone else's mother? If I didn't know, I would think you were a family. Oh, where did this sudden change of heart come from? Such a stinky aunt, let's go quickly Don't smoke you. Who told you to say mine? I greeted you with good intentions but you scolded me, right? Do you know about yourself? Oh, it's warm I'm not saying you You, the sister How can I be on the same level as my sister? You said you don't even say hello to your elders when you see them There are really no rules at all You are Nuan Nuan's stepmother, right? As the saying goes, parents are the best teachers for their children. You don't respect yourself How do you ask your children to respect you? Where is Mrs. Yan? Warm, let's go This bitch I'll have to deal with him sooner or later Um Oh, baby. How can I get acquainted with such a person? snort Mom, I've been feeling nauseous lately. It's not that she's pregnant. Oh no, it won't really happen. If you are pregnant at this time That's just too good. Let's go to the hospital. Oh, that's great. Pregnant Pregnant Shanshan suspected that she was really pregnant this time I'm really pregnant. Let me see it quickly Now I'll see what they have to say. I want Zong Zhengze and Lin Yurong to take a good look at them. If you want to hold your head up high in the Zong family, you still have to rely on me. Aunt Su Why don't I call Aze now and tell him Need not I want to give him a surprise Come How about trying it? Um Mom, I don't want to drink this. I want to eat cream cake Shanshan, look at how thin you are now. Now pregnant again Then you should drink more black chicken soup I cooked this black chicken soup for 4 hours. I'll get you the cake later. No, I don't drink. I just smell this Ah, I want to vomit No, I don't want to eat this. I'd rather eat cream cake. mom What I really thought I was pregnant with a child The Queen Mother Oh, okay, okay. Isn't he pregnant now? Follow him Wouldn't it be better if he just gave birth to the child? It's easy to follow what he says. There are still 10 months left. Ever since he got pregnant, he's been treating me like a babysitter. I've lived so long and never been so angry. Why I don't know where Aze went. I don't answer the phone. Okay, you eat first and I'll get it. Mom, I want to eat dragon fruit In the fridge? Cut it yourself Just pregnant Your hands are not hidden. Oh my soul Susan, you did this on purpose Is that so? My flower was airlifted from New Zealand. This pot of flowers costs tens of thousands, do you know? Hey, the cake is coming. The cake is coming Oh my god How can you hit me? Ouch My stomach hurts. My stomach hurts so much. She is pregnant How could you hit her? I kneel down You know nothing You blame me. Susan, he's playing tricks on me. Get out of here Go back to your Su family. Mom, did I do something wrong? No, no I'm going to vomit, get out of the way Want to drive me away? I won't The humiliation I suffered in your clan before This time I want to let you guys have a taste of what it's like Why Come back, come back Ok, okay, okay. If it breaks, it breaks. I can buy another one tomorrow. She is pregnant now. You let her give birth to the baby smoothly. Isn't that the end? Isn't it just a child? She also wants me to hold it in my hands and serve her. snort I just said it What kind of education can a mistress's daughter have? My mind is full of how to destroy other people's feelings A belly full of bad water Husband, you're back. How dare this bitch stab me in the back? Haha, I'll check it out today. Is your heart black or red? ah Ahhh Dad You made me lose everything I'm going to let you try it today. What is the pain of bone cutting? Dad ah ah You can't hit me I'm pregnant with your child Do you think I'm a fool? Cheating me once is not enough You want to trick me again? Ahhhh Mommy! oops What happened Oh, call an ambulance! Why are you so Impulsive Your wife is pregnant Your dad and I are at home Serving like an emperor You went drinking Okay, now I don't know what's going on. Grandpa, the child is here. Do you think I want to worry about this? Really But your wife really needs a lesson. When something happens, you just take advantage of it. Treat me like a babysitter. No one has ever dared to order me around like this in my life. Okay, okay. Please stop talking. The results are out See for yourself Aze divorced this woman immediately How can the Zongzheng family want a woman who can't have children? Don't forget the promise made by the old man. No children You lose your inheritance. Forget it. Wait until Shanshan wakes up. Besides, he also has responsibilities. What is his responsibility? Is it wrong for a man to teach his woman a lesson? Who made him so unlucky? Lost the baby when I got pregnant I can't raise a child myself Can you blame others? I won't get divorced. Never leave Hum, why? When you married Aze Not pregnant at all You're cheating on your marriage. I sued the court You have to leave the Sosho family obediently. Sue me He just killed my child. He is the murderer If you want to sue Arrest him first. Susan, you can't have children. Still so crazy Our Zou Zheng Family I don't need a woman who can't lay eggs. I'll call your mom in a minute. Take you back quickly General Policy If it weren't for you How could I lose my right to be a mother? Now I can't have children You just want to kick me away I tell you I won't let you get what you want. Then you better be careful I will torture you well Make you live a life worse than death I have lost my right to be a mother. How can I live a life worse than death? Su Nuan all this It's all because of you Even if we die, we must be together Drag you to hell Wife Wake up, lazy pig Um, don't I'm gonna sleep a little longer. If you don't get up, I'll Uh-huh, let go, mom. I'm not feeling well today. You go to the company yourself Don't bother me The little liar wants to deceive me again The annual meeting is coming soon There's a lot to do. Get up quickly and go to the company with me What's wrong with you? I can't catch my breath Out of breath You lie down Don't be afraid I'll call right away Hey my wife trouble breathing Other places in Crape Myrtle Garden How about grabbing the doctor? Here is my 2 cents report Congratulations first Your wife is pregnant Pregnant I'm going to be a dad I'm going to be a dad Really, look Doctor, didn't you say there were two reports? What is the example He also has a hidden heart disease Pregnancy may make the condition worse Risks Don't panic Although this situation is rare But as long as you are careful and sincere Don't make the patient emotionally agitated. Don't overwork After the baby is born The condition will gradually improve Of course you can also choose to take the child away This is the safest option for adults. doctor Doctor We My child, I'm in charge Doctor, I will listen to you. Keep a cheerful mood Not overworked Then give birth to this child in good health If you feel uncomfortable, come to the hospital for a check-up at any time. A major murder case recently occurred in the city. The deceased, Wei Ming, died in an accident at an auto parts factory Cause of death unknown The police are still investigating Dead Zong Chengze I finally have the evidence against you. Listen to the news A man named Wei Ming died in Qi Peichao, a suburb of Have you heard? I don't know what you're talking about Yeah But The date you went to the auto parts factory It seems to be the same day as Weiming's death What do you want? You are my husband Don't you know best what I want? ah Ah, let me go You shouldn't know Let go of what I shouldn't know If I Die Everything you do They will be reported to the police station. You won't be able to survive then. Bitch Husband I just want you to treat me well. Getting your love is my greatest wish As long as you treat me well Don't say a thing I'm willing to do anything you want me to do Don't you forget If my affairs are exposed Then you got into a car accident without knowing it. It will also be detected You can't run away either. Yeah So We are still grasshoppers on a rope No one can live without anyone else Right? Let me talk about it again. I also want to thank you for helping me resolve the case. Right, husband? I want you to help me solve the auto parts factory murder case If I get caught You can't carry out your plan Zong Zhengze You gave me a fake client list. You still expect me to wipe your ass? There's no way it could be fake. Something must be wrong. You wait for me Shanshan Why are you calling at this time? I was scared to death Tell you I'm opening the safe now. Your father has been suspicious of me recently. I want to change the files in it to assets Specialties of this major You bitch Mom, what happened? My husband said my husband Where did those items in the account go? Do you want my Su family to completely change their name? No My husband, you misunderstood. husband I have been buying some real estate outside during this period. Failure to report to you in time Do you think I'm a fool? Ah, I turned a blind eye to this for so many years Even the fact that you and Shanshan were involved in a car accident that killed Xinyi I'm keeping it a secret for you. I thought of it. I didn't expect that you guys would figure it out now. All my possessions Get out of here, bitch Ahhh Husband, don't Treat me like this I love you Husband, I can't live without you Husband, please don't abandon my husband dad What happened? Ah, what happened to you? Get lost Involved in car accidents Killing Star Lord Now you want to take all my property I'm going to the police now Tell the police You designed the car accident. dad Do you have to see me in jail before you worry about anything? yes I designed that car accident. It was also me who killed Su Nuan's mother But have you ever thought about why? Since childhood I was told by other kids A bastard without a father Say I'm an illegitimate daughter When I saw you with them mother and daughter Do you know how I feel? I just hope that there is no one else around my dad Is it wrong to only be with me and my mom? dad I want to have one last meal with you. Then I went to turn myself in with my mother Okay? dad This is a new dish I learned. Come and try it to see if it tastes good, husband. Try it now Cheng Cheng, don't be so willful outside in the future As the saying goes, this girl is From now on The entire Su family is mine. First of all, everyone Thank you all for coming to our Cloud Group's annual celebration As the planner of this event Very lucky Then, please welcome our president, Mr. Zhong Zhengxiao Summarize the Group's History And the brilliant achievements you have achieved Sister, they all envy you. It seems that you were right not to marry Aze Thank you for your care. You picked that jerk off. I really feel sorry for you. Next, I would like to invite my wife to come up Come cut the first piece of cake with me today So happy I am honored to cut the first piece of cake This cake means a lot So I think He should give it to the planner of this event Silently supporting behind Woman holding My sister Susan What do you want to do? You will know it later. first I want to show you a video I designed that car accident. It was also me who killed Su Nuan's mother But have you ever thought about why? Since childhood I was told by other kids A bastard without a father Su Nuan Since you want me to die Then don't think about living well. Hey, put your gun down. Hey, put the knife down. Let go of Nuan Nuan I can give you anything you want. what would you like You asked me what I wanted Even my husband likes someone else. What do I want? I want you all to die, okay? Shanshan, let go of Nuannuan I promise you I will definitely treat you well I'll take you on a honeymoon Can I take you on a trip? Su Nuan, ah Su Nuan Look at these men. One or two of them are facing you And I have nothing Do you think I should kill you? You killed my mother first. Now you wanna kill me again Aren't you afraid of legal sanctions? Legal Zong Zhengze He killed my child. Killed Wei Ming again Why doesn't the law punish him? You killed Wei Ming You promised to keep it a secret for me. I'm going to drag all of you down to hell with me Ha ha ha Security guard on Take them to the police station Warm Warm Call fast ah Ah, gave birth to me How is my wife? Mother and child are safe When will he come out? It'll be out soon. Thank you. Thank you. Wife you are awesome Do you feel uncomfortable anywhere? I'm dying of exhaustion. This is more tiring than beating 10 people. You have to compensate me good Compensate you