Welcome back everybody! a look at four different dash cams in four different price categories, all them bestsellers. That's today's video. (introduction music) So if you've watched you know that a couple did a dash cam comparison. And my criteria was I could find. So what I've got four different price ranges, and see how they compare. The idea really wasn't or the newest models, just the ones that at this time. I'm mainly focusing and how well they mount. So let's take a look First up, the $24 model This is the Pilot. Let's start with the Pilot. of the bunch. It's listed as a bestseller I paid $24 for it. It has a max storage an 8GB microSD card in there. This is a front camera The lens has 120-degree On the back we got A 1080p camera. Loop recording, As with all the others, also known as a G-sensor. Uses a suction cup mount. As with all the others, plus a USB cable. And there is no app support But $24. That's definitely Next up, listed as in the dash cam category. This is the $45 Apeman. This is the Apeman, by far. The Apeman. Max storage of 64GB. No SD card included So I put a 64 in here. This is also front camera only. It's listed as number one 170-degree field of view. On the back we got The camera is 1080p. It has loop recording, no GPS. It does have a G-sensor. It has a f/1.8 aperture for lowlight. This has adhesive And again, 12V car adapter No app support for this one. The third contestant This is a little bit more expensive. This is the Kingslim. This is the Kingslim D1. This has a max storage of 128GB. It comes with a 32GB card Front and rear cameras. Also, infrared technology I paid $134, but I've seen it Both lenses are 170-degree On the back it's a 2-inch display. You can run 2.5K as far or you can run both at 1080p. Loop recording. inlcuded with it. This one also has a G-sensor Suction mount cup. USB cable. And app support. And finally the most expensive this is one from Best Buy. This is the Rexing. Finally, the biggest of the bunch. This is a Rexing. This was listed as a bestseller Max storage of 256. which is right here. It has front and rear cameras. And this one actually can rotate. Both lenses are 170-degree 2.7-inch display on the back. Loop recording. Built-in GPS. G-sensor, infrared night vision. WDR technology. 12V car adapter, USB cable, All four of these do offer but that really requires which I do not have so I'm not really going into the motion detection feature. Let's take a look of these dash cams. Now, the Pilot, the Apeman, all have suction cup mounts, because it makes it easier Unfortunately, the Rexing, You can buy, I realized late a suction cup mount for this, of the box with adhesive. but we'll have to make it work, One complaint about the Pilot the placement of the input And that's... Look at that. How are you supposed People were complaining Not to mention, They could at least like this. This is the Apeman. But, no. with a straight one, of finagle that around Here we are form the outside. Not a fan of the adhesive. I wish it was a suction cup but it's not. I guess I got Also, make sure that's I'm not... I can't tell all the way or not. One of the disadvantages to move once you get in place. I now have the power connected We have the Pilot. That was not easy Very difficult. It's actually still kind The Apeman. That was actually Kingslim. And the Rexing. Also, I should point out has a GPS antenna Now, normally you wouldn't have Most of them actually the cable up and around, to leave all four of these to permanently install until I know which one It does look pretty bad. But we're interested on the road which we're going All right. Pilot is recording. Apeman recording. Kingslim recording. The Rexing is recording. They're all recording. I would say, actually just looking is actually the Apeman, I'm not sure if brightness or not, but it is the brightest right out of the gate. We got some driving to do though. By the way, the Apeman and the Kingslim to a screensaver. So preliminaries out of the way. Let's look at the daytime to see how they all worked. This nice straight open road. at all four of them together Is one brighter than the other How the colors look. Now, the angle it's not... I didn't spend a lot of time so if they're pointing off that's my fault. Right now we're just looking And again, I haven't I have not tested After I've done filming here, and take a look. I don't know which one's I really have no clue. to be 1080p. Now, let's take a look Let's try the Pilot first. I will... I'm not sure if it has but I'm going to try which should be right here. the audio from my digital recorder So how does the Pilot look? Next up we have the Apeman for a dash cam. I don't know why. But let's see how that looks. This is going to be the video I'm not sure which audio depending on how awkward but I'll switch back and forth showing which one All right. Next up, let's try Kingslim's next. How does this video look in the audio. The audio from the Kingslim, the audio from the digital recorder. How clear is everything? Yeah. I have four dash cams. I have the right of way. All right. Let's see This is the most expensive It's also the one I like the least. How does the quality look? on this camera. so I would hope that it has out there. All right. Driving into the sun. I'll do all four cameras I just have my car wash shouldn't be dirty, of a reflection on here. But I did want to drive how that looked. All right. What I want to do now that have rear cams. So let's switch that right now. I wore this bright red shirt, the color. Well, actually, is in color. I think the other one so I think that one of them rear camera, So, hopefully my red looks good And let's try the audio again We'll try the audio Now, we'll try the audio And now we'll try the audio which is going to be better All of these have G-sensor which is a gravity sensor, it will lock the video from that particular event Now, that's actually helpful, from an accident and then the loop recording has erased so that's actually and they all have that. Now, assuming this turns out right, alternate the audio, what... how each camera looks. It's not just about camera quality. Camera quality but there's other features I'm a little disappointed doesn't have the suction cup I'm disappointed for the Pilot plugs into of the mount. So, it seems like they all The Kingslim does have when it goes into I'll show you a picture of that All right. So next thing pull all the SD cards out, Assuming they did, and try the night version all worked. If you're wondering in my car, look at Whoa. I got three And I've got a fourth one down there. So that's how It's not pretty. Cord management I'm also not planning in here, so I didn't really worrying about the wires. Another problem with the SD card is right there. There's almost no room. Look at these trying I have to squeeze it. There's almost no room and the glass. It's very tight. Suction cup mount would have All right. So the daytime shots It's time to go back out for the night tests. How about some night shots of these dash cams? This road is kind of I got a little bit of traffic Let's take a look at all four see how they look. Now, I went back and looked I was not very impressed It seemed like it was than the rest of them. I was also very disappointed to the point where I wonder The audio is so bad. My other observation is once again in the Rexing because if it comes I could be a little bit more precise Right now, I'm kind on my windshield. I can't fine tune I can't fine tune where it points. So let's do these one a time now. with the $24 Pilot. The Pilot from Walmart. Bestseller there. which isn't overly impressive. All right. Next up, Apeman, the $45 dash cam. How does that look? And I'll also try How does it sound Switching over What do you think about that? Kingslim rear view at night. I can see the infrared lights I have to grab my camera later what I'm seeing. All right. Now let's take a look Rexing front view. It has one of the better pictures, is very disappointing. at the Rexing rear view. Should be just a black and white I also see the four infrared lights I'll grab my camera It really seem like in the daytime were acceptable, video quality wise. Kingslim was pretty unacceptable, We'll see how they all Hey, don't cut me off. Oh, another thing is I set all these clocks yesterday before and not all of them I don't know how that works. I set all of them and they were all accurate. When I plugged them in today, were not right. It is 5:45 p.m. on January 6th. And I'm not sure if any of these... Oh, I see the Kingslim is correct. But the clocks did not At least a couple of them didn't. And that was, Something I also want were easy to remove of the dash cams. But for the Rexing, The way it's mounted up and having the SD card I think you're supposed the mount, but I was having so it's not very user friendly on the Rexing goes. because that's the So I'm going to wrap up and then wrap this thing up. So that's what we have. Pilot. Apeman. Kingslim. Rexing. At night, the brightness All right. I'm going to discuss from each dash cam I'm discussing. Let's start with the Pilot. Pro would be the price a great price for that. And the mounting it actually goes on there And that's about as far There's three major cons that I just, I can't get past. the daytime picture the nighttime picture is very bad. And the placement where it goes into the camera, The person that designed it to the drawing board. It's awful. I think for $24, I'm not sure but you might want if this is as good as it gets. Let's talk about the Apeman $45. I think the picture quality was actually pretty good, It was also easy to mount with putting the connector Now, as far as the cons go, that many cons except it doesn't have But I think for the price, Let's talk about the Kingslim now. I think that the daytime is quite good. The biggest problem Now, it's so bad that I almost wonder if I had a defective unit. It's, it's quite bad. The other problem the rear camera and the nighttime vision as the Rexing is. I think that if the audio be bad for $100. If that's how all the audio sounds, I just realized people to my car out here. All right. Let's talk about the $180-$200 Rexing now. And the rear camera that we've had as well. I actually think the rear camera I think of the two rear cameras, the superior of those two. Now, as far as the cons go, with the picture quality at night. compared to the Kingslim. Maybe not even better which is only $45. The other problem is the mounting. included a suction cup in the box. about that. Not only can you not move it makes it difficult and out of there. Not a fan of the mounting system. For $200, I would expect I'm a little disappointed with the Rexing. So in the end, I got to get That one just really If you're looking for and you're not worried the Apeman is actually As far as the two more I'm a little disappointed, seem to have features to me. As far as the Kingslim goes, the audio was bad. As far as the Rexing goes, unless you buy And its night shots This might be anticlimactic, to stick with the Vantrue It's better than the two I reviewed here. In fact, I'll give you of how that look two years ago and compared to how look today. All right. Let's take a look Let's first up, let's look Vantrue right now. We're going to do the Vantrue Vantrue audio. my green shirt look How does that look? (unintelligible) (unintelligible) So if you're in the market hopefully I provided you I appreciate you watching