Hey, Comment ca va? Today we are to check out open thing is what is a dominant 7th G7 or C7 or B7 written down on a what that 7 was for. We're actually major scale. Now any of you doing get stuck in that it might make think of it is that we're gonna than the root note. So an octave of a G chord, what's one note You think G one semi-tone down you've hopefully had a bit of look down will be the note F# or Gb, be the note F. So to get a G7 chord, G chord. That's the basic idea. It's gonna just take you through to make the chords I'm gonna show you are to them. One way which I would start. But I'm also gonna show you I think sounds better, some that some that were actually easier through check the chords out one OK so we we're gonna start off we're gonna look at E7. So there's of you will be completely familiar we need to add a D note and the to lift off the 3rd finger and we've is the note D. So there's standard OK it's here the open string. Of that the 2nd finger is laying to might have E and D wrong, you don't it's muted. Make sure the tip of the make sure the underneath of the And that would be the E7 I would first. There's E, lift off the 3rd another very common variation which the time. That low E there kinds ears. So another nicer way to do it of the note is to play it here with of the 2nd string, which is also the So there's E, here's E7, here's the You can hear that one, the 7th is obvious as there. But when you're be starting out with a simple one. to remember. You're going to be your shuffle strumming. So I'd of all and only worry about moving completely hip with all of your C7 and B7, which are a little bit Here's our regular A chord, again with. All you have to do now is the G note, open G string. Very very popular good standard kind though which I kind of like more recommend learning first of all. particularly if you've learned to bar... there's the note G there, You can get lots of nice improvements maybe might use more commonly fingerstyle the picking folky kind blues maybe this one sounds a little would recommend, as I said, starting could use other fingers if you've in an E blues we got B7 and the we B7 more in a second. I'm just showing, got that nice little transition if four your A7 chord. Now let's move have to add is a tone below D. Can got a D, one semi-tone below that that would be the note C. OK. octave of the D. I'm not going to D, C#, C. Put the other two notes And this is a great grip, there's recommend really. It's a I always feel like this is a mirror same shape. I kind of see this as these notes as a triangle and this that might help you remember. we don't want to be playing the accidentlly hit the 5th string, it the thickest string is not something stick witht the thinnest 4 strings we're going to look at is G7 and So here is our G7 using fingers want to go a tone lower than that, got to add. Now this note here again most of the time I feel it down there. So it's worth knowing you want to accent but most times playing that note. So you just want the 3rd finger will mute the 5th finger on the 1rst fret. I'm trying fingure so that it doesn't like But we just want the 1rst finger is just hanging around. Very, very So next chord we're gonna check should be the easiest. It's just little finger. But NITSUJ found this than he thought it was gonna be. So here's our regular C chord. the little finger down in the 3rd we're not going to play the thickest the tip of the 3rd finger. 3rd fret, finger there, 1rst finger, open. C7. There's lovely to F. do that. But might do in a blues That's a C7 chord. Now having all of a struggle. If your jumping from of fingers that have got to find bit of this 1 minute change, are the changes your gonna use G blues. But that's what you're keep that thickest string muted as And the last of our 7th chord that A lot of you may have encountered it as a teenager, I found it really is going to be seven hours just skip continue to do that kind of thing, going to get the chord. You have a tough chord, I'm just going to right&quot;. It is only about practice those a chord which is a bit awkward or just have to keep on practicing. going to it, going from it, working it songs that use it. Don't be afraid tricky to start off with. chord like this before. And we because it's a bar chord like this. we're doing a bar with the 3rd the intermediate course. But B7 in E, the B7, the A7, E. Really, really super hip cool sound. muting the thickest string. OK? to mute the thickest string. 1rst finger 2nd fret of string 3. open on the thinnest string. Muting the change to practice here is from E put them all back down, this is 1rst finger moves over 3rd and 4th things to do for 1 minute changes And also B7 to A7, where you see move together. Other fingers come and keep the spacing. Another nice B7. When it comes time to practice spending a little time just practicing you can get all of the note clearly. G7 will be faster to learn then C7 but that was certainly the case to learn, A7 the same, D7 slightly but not too bad particularly if you with your 3rd and 4th finger you difficult. C7 having all 4 fingers bit more of a tussle. Now when progression they're gonna have going to ba able to avoid it really. practice time for working on the sessions you are just playing through your fingers. But then maybe spend thing. You don't have to actually want to, of course at this stage thinking about, you know, what your practice routine. But definitely like E7 to B7 would be helpfull, C7 and C7 to D7, they would be the that you want to work on. Maybe fast changes would be the best thing, between two chords but really making out nice and clearly, that the fingers be ringing open and that kind of chords. Like I said they're not just going to be looking at blues this lots of other times, even &quot;House will be an E7 actually most of the So make sure you memorise the chords, of the time, when you're learning them. Don't be having to look at down the page. You definitely have If you can memorise them without bit more coming up on that next and that you've learned a whole And I'll see you for more very soon.