Well, hello there everyone. I'm Dr. Leslie Kernisan, board certified geriatrician and the founder of the website Better Health While Aging dot net. And this is the Better Health While Aging video podcast where we discuss common health problems that affect people over age 60 and the best ways to prevent and manage those problems. We also often address common concerns in dilemmas that come up with aging parents and other older loved ones like what to do if you're worried about falls or safety or memory or even the quality of an older person's healthcare. So in this episode, I am going to talk about exercise and aging and what they have to do with maintaining independence and quality of life in later life. Now, I think we all know that exercise is good for your health. We've all heard this over and over again. So you might be wondering why is this geriatrician devoting an episode to an obvious truth? And the answer is that although I think older adults have often heard that exercise is good for them, I think that they often actually might be underestimating just how valuable exercise can be because it's valuable not only for lots of better health outcomes, but for really practical reasons that end up making a huge difference to how people experience their life in their later years. So in particular, I've recently been doing a deep dive into this. I wrote an article for my website about it and it was really striking to me the way doing the right kinds of exercise can be so key towards maintaining physical abilities and independence as you age. And I mean really practical things like comfortably navigating steps and stairs and carrying groceries and maintaining strength and balance, I think is what is especially important for older adults, not just for fall prevention, but again for the ability to comfortably do those practical daily life skills that allow us to participate in life. Another thing I've noticed over the years is when I've asked a lot of older adults about exercise, they're kind of like, well, I should exercise more, but I walk, I walk every day, I walk a lot, and walking is wonderful. And I think many older adults think that walking is enough, but the truth is walking is not enough. And I'm going to talk more about why in today's video. So by sharing what I've recently reviewed, I hope to give you a better understanding of how exercise can help you not only be healthier, but really help you age better or make the most out of your life right now and whatever years you have ahead of you. And I hope to make it feel possible and feasible for you to exercise more or exercise differently in order to just really reap those advantages that we can get from exercise in aging. Now, one of the things that inspired me recently was reading this book Outlive by Dr. Peter Attia. So he is not a trained geriatrician, I think he originally trained as a surgeon and researcher, but he became interested in what he calls applied longevity. He has a special clinic where they help, I believe it's mostly people in midlife optimize their health for longevity, but also for health span, for the ability to feel healthy and be very functional for as long as possible into life. And so he recently published a book called Outlive that summarized a lot of, you know what he has concluded our best practices and, and he covers lots of things that people often talk about when it comes to, you know, being healthy and longevity, nutrition and, and some other things. But, but I was struck by this paragraph, which was exercise is by far the most potent longevity drug. No other intervention does nearly as much to prolong our lifespan and preserve our cognitive and physical function. So, so given that, you know, what do we need to know about exercise? Because it's not enough to just be like, okay, I'm gonna exercise. We really wanna be thoughtful about the way in which we exercise. And some people can take this very, very far, get very, very detailed in this video. I'm gonna tell you what I think is most important for people who are in their fifties, sixties, seventies, eighties, nineties and beyond, if you are. So, but before that, really quickly, what is exercise? What does it mean to exercise? We'll start there. So exercise is essentially a form of structured physical activity. So physical activity is anything that makes you move your body, including getting up to, you know, go to the kitchen, walking around, running errands, having fun, socializing. But exercise itself is a form of structured physical activity where the intention is to exert yourself or to physically challenge yourself. And this is usually done either intentionally for health reasons or health promotion reasons, but it can also be for personal enjoyment. So in particular, many people enjoy some kind of, you know, we often call 'em sports, right, for personal enjoyment or hiking might qualify as well. So there are lots of activities that can qualify as exercise, but I think what really distinguishes exercise is that it should be more strenuous or challenging than your usual practical physical activities. So you should have to exert yourself more than usual when you are exercising. Now in this video, I'm not gonna go into like all the research and scholarly literature about the ways that exercise improves health, but I did wanna talk about it in one way that I think is particularly relevant to aging. So as you may know, exercise in both observational studies and randomized studies generally improves lots of aspects of health associated with reduced mortality, better cardiovascular health, you know, better emotional health, the list goes on. But how does it do this? And what's interesting is that when they study exercise at a cellular level, what they find is that exercising and different forms of exercise activate, you know, potentially different things at a cellular level. But in general, exercise tends to activate a variety of cellular pathways that improve cellular function and organ function. And this is important because this is essentially a counter to Aging. Aging is fundamentally a process that affects our cells and organs where over time cells and organs get less able to repair themselves, maintain themselves, restore themselves. They can either become, not they can die cells, but also they can become actually what's called senescent where they're not functioning properly and they're actually emitting chemicals and factors that negatively affect other cells in the body. So, so that's what aging is at a cellular level. So exercise in many ways kind of counters this and either slows it or slightly, you know, can reverse it. Exercise also broadly speaking generally will improve glucose metabolism and reduce inflammation. This is important because dysregulated glucose and increased inflammation are two of the mechanisms by which we see, you know, the body aging and further deteriorating itself as people get older. Exercise also often does improve mood, sleep and anxiety. So it has these short term effects that are very important for emotional wellbeing and physiology now. So that's at the cellular level and the organ level and a little bit, you know, the health level. Now how does exercise improve aging from another lens? And from this lens I wanna talk about aging not from a cellular level, but the way we actually experience it in our lives, which is what in geriatrics we describe as a functional level, which means how able are you to do the things that you want to do easily, comfortably so that you can participate in life to your fullest extent? Because that is the way that we experience aging. And generally as we age, at some point we experience certain forms of what we in geriatrics might describe as functional decline. It gets harder to physically do things that we are are used to doing. And initially those might be particularly strenuous things, you know, like the hikes or certain forms of sports. But it also often gets harder physically to do things that are not particularly sporty. So again, you know, lifting a child or your suitcase will get harder and eventually lifting even the even lighter things could get harder. Also, as we age, it takes longer to recover from injuries and illnesses. Many of us start to notice this by our forties and it becomes often more pronounced as we get older and given enough time. If we are lucky enough to live to a very advanced age, it can eventually become very hard or essentially impossible to do certain physical actions without the assistance of another person. So we can take a lot, lot of this function and the ability to have our body do what we want it to do for granted earlier in life. And often at a certain point, older adults are not taking it for granted because it can get challenging. So the really cool thing about exercise is that it counters this, it slows this process or in some cases can even counter it. So it helps us maintain those physical activities and it essentially slows the physical aging experience. So when it comes to maintaining independence, I think exercise is really, really important as I'm going to explain in this episode, it helps stave off muscle loss and frailty, which are also two other common features that eventually tend to catch up with people at some point in their later life, some people earlier, some people later. And exercise is really important to maintain mobility to prevent falls. So that helps with aging in place, which is another often priority for older adults. Now what happens if you don't exercise? And some of you may be going through this because the statistics show that the vast majority of Americans do not exercise regularly. The vast majority of older Americans don't exercise regularly. The thing to know is that you're not going to stay the way you were at age 50. And and I think we, we know this, but I think people don't actually appreciate from a practical concrete level what that might look like. So the normal aging process is not only that your cellular function changes, but that you will start to lose muscle mass due to normal aging. So this starts actually fairly early. Experts believe that muscle mass in general decreases by three to 8% per decade after age 30, but it really speeds up after age 60. And initially I think the body can be a bit like the brain initially we have more capacity than we need for our daily life activities. So whether you're particularly strong or not so strong, you can still climb the stairs, carry your groceries, you know, maybe lift up a child. But eventually as you're losing that muscle mass that catches up to you. Another thing that happens if you don't exercise is that your balance will worsen. Now this is partly due to weaker muscles, especially the stabilizing muscles in the core and it's also due to the aging of the neurological system. And all of this can be accelerated or worsened by certain chronic conditions. So again, if you don't exercise, you're going to have difficulty again with those practical activities like the stairs and groceries earlier in life. And it's especially true if you for some reason get hospitalized. We also especially lose muscle mass when we are bed bound and not moving. That happens more quickly for older adults. So people who have not exercised don't have extra strength and reserve and when they get hospitalized and are kept bedbound for a week, they come out much, much weaker than if they had not exercised. So, so again, I really feel that intentional exercise is necessary if we wanna counter and slow the kind of normal process of things, which is to experience this age related physical decline. And, and again, exercise doesn't mean that you entirely avoid it, but you can slow it, delay it, and then depending on the form of exercise and the issue, sometimes reverse some of these declines as well. Now what about again, walking for exercise? So I already said it, it's not enough, but I'm gonna say it again here and I do wanna say walking is wonderful. I encourage every older adult to walk regularly. It is a way of getting out and about in the world to be out in nature or at least get some fresh air, some sunshine. It's something that we can do with friends, with family members, with neighbors, if you do it going uphills, you know are really briskly, it can even count as exercise. But in most cases the walking that people are doing is not strenuous enough to count as exercise, meaning it doesn't build or maintain your muscle strength, it doesn't challenge your balance enough and it doesn't challenge and kind of build and maintain your heart lung capacity, what we also refer to as cardiopulmonary capacity in medicine. So if you want these benefits of exercise, in most cases walking is not going to be enough. So now let's talk about what is enough and how you could be exercising again to optimize strength and balance and independence in exercising. So I'm gonna talk about the, you know, what I recommend and I just wanna say, and lots of research has been done on this too. Any exercise is better than no exercise. So I will talk about a few different types of exercise I recommend doing, but if you're not exercising, what's most important is to start doing any type of exercise as long as you do it consistently. By that I mean at least once a week, twice a week would be better, but at least once a week it can be small. Small is often a safer way to to start. But any exercise done consistently is better than no exercise. And often people start seeing benefits within, you know, a few weeks to a few months. But if you really want the benefit, then you wanna think about how to make sure you fit in these four types of exercise. And that is strength exercise, also known as resistance, aerobic exercise, also known as endurance or cardio balance exercises and flexibility exercises. So let me now go through those four types in a little bit more detail. So first I'm gonna talk about strength exercises, also known as resistance exercises. This is something I was not particularly taught about in medical school 20 years ago, but I've come to realize is so important and does bring some distinct benefits that are separate from cardio and aerobic type exercises. So what are strength exercises? These are exercises that challenge muscle strength to enable you to maintain and even increase muscle strength, muscle power, muscle mass. And so some examples they can be body weight exercises. So that's things just where you use your body weight against gravity to create the exercise of squats. Pushups less, you think pushups are too hard. I can tell you there are several different types of pushups that can build upper body strength. One can start just against the wall, then against the counter, then on the knees, then the full plank. And then strength exercises can also be done with weights, you know, dumbbells, resistance bands, weight machines at the gym. These can all create resistance exercise. Now the thing about resistance exercises is that they are supposed to be at the right level of challenge and then they are supposed to get more challenging over time because if you keep doing an exercise with a certain weight and you're doing it correctly, then eventually you should get stronger and you should get easier to do the exercise. And once it's not challenging enough, you really wanna increase the weight. So how challenging should the exercise be? So you're at the right weight if when you do the exercise, so the squats or the pushup or the, you know, whatever it is with the weight, if you can do it eight to 10 times or about 10 times with good form, it is important to have good form. That means you're using the muscles that the exercise is meant to activate and you're less likely to injure yourself. So if you're at the right weight, you should be able to do it with good form about I have been told about 10 times. And another way to think of it is you could maybe do it once or twice more before you completely poop out, but not more than that. So if you keep doing an exercise like that, you will get stronger. And so if you get to the point where you can do 15 repetitions without pooping out, then it's not challenging enough to continue to build the strength of your muscles. It's actually for the body becoming more of an endurance exercise than a strength exercise. So you know, I know some people where their routine is to do 50 pushups, it's wonderful to be able to do 50 pushups, it's an amazing, you know, achievement at the same time that's not further building the strength in the the upper body, although it certainly might be maintaining it. And if you're doing 50 pushups, you're probably in good shape and you may not need this video, at least not this part of the video right now. And then different exercises will work different parts of the body. So you want a combination of exercise that allows you to work the major parts of the body, the core, which is more than the abdomen, it's also parts of the back, the glutes, you know, the upper chest girdle, the upper body, the lower body. And you wanna aim to do strength exercises at least twice a week, probably three times a week. It's really good if you can manage. Now how about aerobic exercises? So these are exercises that give your heart and lungs a workout. So usually you have to breathe harder, you might find it hard to speak or be unable to speak. And this is good because it improves the body's ability to move and use oxygen. So when you do strength exercises, your heart is probably going to pick up at least a little bit but it's not really getting a workout. Whereas when you do aerobic exercises, the heart and lungs are getting a workout. So some examples might include swimming or water aerobics or cycling or brisk walking. And then of course there are machines indoors to do aerobic exercises at all stationary, bicycles, treadmills, ellipticals and so forth. So how much should you do? The American Heart Association does have a recommendation. They say that ideally you wanna be doing 150 minutes per week of moderate intensity aerobic activity and moderate means that it feels like a five to six out of 10 on the scale of effort. Or they say you can do 60 minutes per week of vigorous activity. So that would be an eight to nine out of 10 efforts. So 150 minutes per week for moderate activity is like 30 minutes, you know, five days a week. Now people may feel like they don't have time to do that much or that sounds like a lot and especially if you're starting from nothing that that is a lot. So the good news is that lower amounts have been studied in research and have been shown to be linked to reduced mortality. So yes, that is the recommended amount that is great to work up to, to aim for, but if you're doing less, that's okay, that helps also. So again, even a little bit, even a little bit of aerobic exercise done consistently every week is going to help you out. Let me now talk about balance exercises. So what is a balance exercise or what is an exercise that would qualify? This is something that should challenge your balance more than your daily life activities do. Now we already use our balance for lots of daily life activities standing up out of the chair, leaning over to pick something up, walking, right? So a balance exercise should challenge you a little bit more or a lot more depending on the exercise and your abilities than usual. So there are exercises that are specifically designed for balance. So for instance, just walking heel to toe where you walk with like one foot and then you place the other one, the heel right in front of the toe in a line that is a balance exercise. If it feels challenging to you, you can do it with one hand, you know, against the wall at first. There are other balance exercises. I have a page on Better, Health, While Aging of the Otago exercises and there's a whole section on balance exercises there. And then there are certain activities that just innately challenge balance a fair bit. Tai chi, yoga dance. I would include those as exercises that really challenge your balance. So why balance exercise is important and relevant. So when we balance two actually balance, it requires the strength of stabilizing muscles in the core, plus the participation of the brain to coordinate the movement and also your nerves to send signals to the brain about like here's the position of the body, here's what's happening and nerves to send signals out from the brain. Here's how to adjust, here's what to do. And what's wonderful is that even in people who are quite old and frail, research has shown that giving them balance exercises does strengthen the body's ability to manage these skills. It strengthens those stabilizing muscles and it strengthens the coordination as well. Now how often should you do them? I would say I think twice a week, at least twice a week is also a, a good level to aim for. If you can do it three times a week, that's great. And then lastly, there's flexibility exercises. So flexibility exercises are the ones that help your joints and your muscles move through a fuller range of motion to maintain or even improve their range. And this is important because if we don't do that the joints and muscles tend to constrict over time. And so really putting your body through like the full range of motion helps maintain that mobility and flexibility. And so generally, you know, the common example is to actually stretch and then there are certain activities that I innately involve putting the body through lots of range. Again, you know, yoga tends to to do that as well. Now how to safely stretch? So the research suggests that it's not such a good idea to stretch a lot before a vigorous activity, but that doing it afterwards is a good idea because first of all we can stretch more effectively and safely when the body is warm. So I recommend first warming up the body. You can do a little bit of aerobic exercise, you know, a few jumping jacks, some squats, or you can even do some strength exercises. And then you wanna slowly stretch into a position and you wanna hold and you wanna hold for at least 30 to 60 seconds. A brief stretch doesn't give the body enough time to relax and really try to take advantage of that, that stretch. It's also a good idea to breathe long exhales, help the body relax because initially when we move into the end of our range of motion, our body is designed to tense up a little bit to keep us from getting injured. So moving into a position, relaxing and then maybe stretching a little bit more can really help with that stretch. And you should not push yourself, you should not, should not be hurting. We just wanna sort of like maintain that full range of motion to maintain flexibility. Another thing to also keep in mind is that you generally wanna avoid bouncing into the stretch. Young people can tolerate bouncing into a stretch, but it's really just kind of like overly taxing the body, it's alarming it and making it think I might be about to get injured. And I think there's really no reason to be doing it if you're doing flexibility in later life and you wanna aim to stretch all major muscle and tendon groups. So those are four types of exercise that every older adult should aim to be doing, ideally weekly. And you know, how can you benefit from this? Well let me just sort of illustrate again a few of these practical skills and how they correspond to these types of exercise. So to be able to comfortably go up the stairs, that requires strength, that requires balance, and that requires at least some aerobic capacity. What about to pick something up off the floor? That requires balance, that requires flexibility and that requires strength. How about carrying your groceries? That's going to require strength. That's also gonna require balance because carrying things tends to put us a little bit off balance or tends to challenge our balance. And then what about picking yourself up off the floor? Should you have a fall? That also requires strength, balance, and flexibility. So I think flexibility, especially people often kind of wave off and think it's a luxury, but you know, flexibility is needed to tie your shoes and to pick things up off the floor. So maintaining at least some flexibility is a good thing. Let me now say a few words about exercise for fall prevention. So in geriatrics for quite a while we've known that certain types of exercises can be a very important part of a fall prevention plan. Now it's often not the only thing that we do for fall prevention, it really depends on why people fall. If you wanna know more about what we would check after somebody falls, I have a video about that. But why, why is fall prevention important and why are the exercises an important part of it? So falls are actually the leading cause of fatal and non-fatal injuries for older adults. And the wonderful thing about exercise is that there have been clinically proven regimens of leg strength and balance exercises that have been shown to help reduce falls in older adults, especially the ones who have had falls are frail and are otherwise at high risk for falls. So in those particular people doing exercises, especially if they're done with physical therapy or other assistance to give people support in doing them correctly and sticking with them, they have helped reduce falls. So if you're interested in exercise for fall prevention, first of all I recommend talking to your doctor about falls and making sure you've had a more comprehensive fall prevention evaluation. But then yes, in most cases we find that older adults who have been falling would benefit from any an exercise program. And so in that case I would encourage you to look for a validated program that means a program that has actually been designed by experts and studied and the results have been published. And those include Otago Healthy Steps in Motion and others. The National Council on Aging actually has a very nice webpage where they list all the evidence-based fall prevention programs and you can learn more over there. Now let's talk a little bit more about how to make this happen. So one thing that really helps if you wanna exercise regularly and make sure you get, you know, you hit those, those four types of exercise is to use an exercise plan. So what do I mean by this? So an exercise plan, you know, basically means not winging it and just saying I'm gonna exercise more and day thinking, do I wanna exercise? What do I wanna do? So a plan means we organize ourselves a little bit more and often they are sort of created on a kind of weekly basis and they should include which exercises the person will be doing on which days. And then should also include some specifics on you know, where they're going to do the exercise and how to do the exercise. So the idea is to have something really clear that is easy to follow so that you're not there losing motivation, trying to figure out what to do or how to do it when it's laid out in a plan. It's really nice and it's even better if you have somebody who can help keep you accountable for that plan. That could be you know, your partner, that could be a family member, that could be a friend or it could be a trainer. Another good thing to build into the plan, this doesn't fit in so much weekly, but maybe it could be a monthly thing, is to kind of assess how it's going and whether it might be time to increase the amount of exercise. Because if you are doing the exercises consistently and correctly, you should find that you're getting stronger. So it is appropriate first of all for the muscles to keep getting stronger. You really should be increasing the weight and challenge and it can be appropriate to also increase the aerobic exercise or some other aspect of the exercise plan if it's accessible to you. I think it can be really helpful to work with a professional to create and update your plan. So how can you get started, especially if you have been sedentary or you fell off the exercise wagon or otherwise are feeling inspired and wanna get going, what do we need to know to get started? So first of all, I think for older adults it is often a good idea to consult with your health provider, your primary care provider, or someone else who is knowledgeable and knows about your health. This is especially important if you do have any chronic health conditions, especially the ones that affect the heart and lungs or your joints. So let your health provider know that you are gonna, you would like to start exercising or increase exercising or change up, improve the way you're exercising and ask them for recommendations. And especially ask them to talk with you about what kinds of precautions you might want to take. If you do have a history of heart or lung problems, that doesn't mean you can't exercise, however you may need to take precautions. And what's wonderful is that there actually exist special rehabilitation programs that are designed for people who have had significant heart conditions or lung conditions to help them improve the capacity of those organs to function. So that might be something that you could discuss with your health provider or be referred to. Some people might also be referred to physical therapy. And then otherwise it's really important when starting to feel that it's okay to start low and go slow. So that can mean several things. Maybe that means that the first week or first few weeks you don't attempt all four types of exercise. You know, you start off with two types and then add something in. And for any type of exercise, especially for aerobic exercise, we don't wanna try to jump in and add like the recommended amount right off the bat. If you've been sedentary or not doing anything close to that level, that can be a lot for the body. It's very, very easy to get injured that way. So think of the recommended amounts you know of of exercise overall in the week or at a time as kind of goals to eventually get to and and it's important to just be safe and you can start small as long as you're consistent early on. So small but consistent effort is the way to go because initially what we wanna do is not necessarily reap all the benefits from exercise, but we, we wanna build a habit and we wanna give the body time to adapt and get stronger so that it can tolerate the level of exercise that we eventually want to be at. Too much too fast does lead to injuries. And so speaking of injuries, let me now talk about the risks of exercising. So exercise is fantastic but there are some risks. There are risks for everything in life, especially, you know, most things that are worthwhile. So what are the risks? I think of them as like three main risks. So one is that there's a real risk of injury due to muscle or joint overuse. So this is when you get some inflammation or irritation or sometimes it can even be an actual injury, some kind of tear around a joint or muscle because you started using it a lot. And especially if the body is not strong enough or is otherwise vulnerable, you can get an injury from that. Another risk is the risk of injury related to falling, especially when it comes to, you know, more active sports. I read recently that there's been a real increase in pickleball injuries, you know, in the emergency room because we have so many people taking on pickleball and that doesn't mean we shouldn't play pickleball. It's a great sport for people of all ages to play, but can feel very accessible to older adults since it's less taxing than tennis or some of the other racket sports. But it's true that you know, when people fall they can get, you know, scrapes and bruises but it's also unfortunately possible to fracture something and it's especially women who have osteoporosis who are at risk for fractures. And then there's the risk of, you know what I'm going to call cardiopulmonary strain, which is basically like overdoing it, especially for the heart. Sometimes it can happen for the lungs, but it's especially with the heart because if the heart is overdoing it then people can get things like chest pain with exertion. So especially for those people who have some preexisting heart disease or heart conditions, it is a risk that that can come up. But the thing about the risks is that if there are risks and even in people who have heart conditions, lung conditions, that doesn't mean that exercise is out of the question or should be considered. It's really a question of how can we manage those risks. So how do we manage the risks? Because I really don't want anyone to feel that they need to avoid exercise because it's risky for them. Instead what we want to do is to ask our health providers for help managing and reducing the risks. So how so first of all, let them know, you know again communication, letting them know that you're interested in starting an exercise program or leveling up your exercise program asking you know, what kind of precautions considering physical therapy or other rehabilitation programs before you do a lot of exercising on your own. That can also be very valuable and your health provider should be able to advise you as to whether that's a good idea for you and they should be able to refer you if they think it is a good idea. Another way to lower risk is to work with a fitness professional if that's something that is available to you. And I personally think it's a good idea to work with either a fitness professional who is about your age because a lot of fitness professionals are relatively young and some have quite a lot of experience with helping clients who are older who are in their sixties or seventies or eighties and some do not. So I think identifying somebody who has experience with people your age group and often people who are about your age group have gone through this for themselves, for their friends and maybe more sort of attuned to the adaptations and the necessity of, you know, sometimes going slower for older adults because again, starting low and going slow is a great way to reduce the risk of injuries. A few other suggestions to reduce injuries, another one is to give yourself rest days. And this is especially important for strength training. Research suggests that you know, people can build strength better if they don't train on back-to-back days, at least not the same muscle group, right? So maybe on one day you might do your upper body and the next day more the lower body. But giving yourself rest days can help. Another thing that's very important is to practice listening to your body and to stop if something is hurting. So I can't emphasize this enough, it is normal for exercise to be uncomfortable. Discomfort is normal but pain is not. So if you're experiencing pain, it's really important to not push through. That's not even a good idea for younger people and I think it becomes a less and less good idea as we get older. So if you're experiencing pain, you wanna think about getting help from a professional to check for injury or impending injury and to advise on how you might want to modify your exercise plan. And then last tip to reduce injuries is to avoid untreated osteoporosis. So first of all, the screening guidelines are that most women, once they're 65 should get screened for osteoporosis. So if you're in that age range and you have never been screened for osteoporosis, you should do so that usually involves a DEXA scan. Some men screening can be recommended for some men as well depending on their health conditions or whether they've been on certain types of medications that are associated with more fragile bones. And then if you're told you do have osteoporosis, I highly recommend considering treatment with medication. It's been researched a lot, it does reduce fracture risk and is pretty safe. People often worry about it, but usually the risk of fracture is much higher than the risk of a significant bad outcome from the medication. And then my last tip is again to consider if you're doing exercise classes, consider the ones designed for people your age. So now I wanna talk about a few exercise situations that I have found come up quite a lot in geriatrics. These are things that people ask me about a lot or that I'm often advising families on or sometimes older adults on. And so I have three. So one is, what about people who are of what we call advanced age or very frail, what about exercise when somebody has Alzheimer's or a related form of dementia or some other form of cognitive impairment? And then there's a situation of what if you want your spouse or your aging parent or another older loved one to exercise? So let me now talk about those. So first of all, advanced age or frailty. I'm gonna start with frailty first. What is frailty? So you may know it when you see it, some people as older people, usually older, although sometimes people look frail when they're younger, if they're very, very sick or have you know, quite advanced cancer. But we have seen some older people who look kind of frail and what does this mean? So frailty is often defined as a state of physiologic vulnerability to stressors. So physiology means the way your body and mind are working. Vulnerable means it's easy for it to get harmed, stop working correctly and to vulnerable to stressors. The stressors can be, they can be illness, they can be being pushed off balance, there are lots of things that can be stressors. So frailty means that people's bodies have reached a point where there really kind of barely holding onto their normal function and it's very easy to be tipped over. So it does correlate to physical age. So most people, if they live long enough and don't have a sudden accident or injury, a lot of people will go through a stage of being, you know, having some frailty before the end of their life, especially if they get into, we especially see it come up often in the last year or two of of life. And there's what we call a phenotype, kind of a physical look to it that has been identified and has been used sometimes in research studies to identify frail individuals. So it often manifests with people losing weight, especially muscle mass with having what's called decreased grip strength. So if you ask them to squeeze something, they can't squeeze as hard, they feel often exhausted by their regular activities. They get tired very, very easily, they walk more slowly than before and they may have decreased physical activity so they're not doing as much as they used to. And so some studies have sort of assessed for these five characteristics in their subjects and if people had three or more, they were identified as frail and frailty often goes with a condition that is called sarcopenia. So this is basically a condition of age-related loss of muscle and strength that comes on from many older adults at some point. And that's part of what makes frail people look frail and behave in ways that are frail. So that's how we define frailty. And then there's advanced age, which there's no exact definition for today. I'm gonna go with 85 plus years. So often when we talk about older adults and break them up into age groups, the, you know, the oldest old used to be defined as 85 and older. Now it's kind of often being switched to 90 because we have, you know, the boomer cohort, lots of them who who are aging and we have more just people in the older adult age group in general. Now the opposite of being frail in medical terms is called being robust. So people who are robust, you know, it takes more to tip them into being sick, being unwell and organ not working well, they tend to look stronger, healthier, more hail. And so there are people who are in their nineties who actually look quite robust. But the thing is as we get older we are still at some level becoming more physiologically vulnerable. So even in people who are robust, 90 is more, you'll be more vulnerable at 90 than you were at 70, even though there are certainly some 90 year olds that I have met who are less, you know, more robust looking than some 70 year olds that I have met. And I'm sure you know people like this as well. So what do we know about exercise for advanced age or frailty? Is it safe and is it safe especially for the frail older adults, right? So because lots of people fall in both those categories, they are frail and they are in their nineties, is exercise safe? And the answer is resoundingly, yes, it's safe, it's beneficial, it is a good idea. This has been studied in research studies and even the frails older adults tend to benefit from physical activity and from exercise. Now if you're very frail, just normal physical activities, practical activities might feel like exercise, they might feel strenuous, so they might qualify as exercise or we can give people specific exercises. The key for exercise when people are frail or very old is to find a level that can be safely tolerated. And in general this is gonna be way below the recommended amounts, the optimal amounts. Now even when people are very old or frail, we ideally wanna aim for again those four types of exercises. It's just that it may not take a lot to give them a cardio workout and the strength exercises, you know, whatever requires strength and is something that they can do. You know, and we might start with fewer than eight repetitions, right? We might start with like three to five things to help them with their balance. Range of motion also remains important as people get older. So usually the key in this group is really scaling down and starting, you know, very low and going very slow. But the research does show that even modest activity and muscle strengthening can slow down declines in activities of daily living. Those daily life tasks that we often learn, you know, quite early in life as toddlers, you know, getting out of bed alone, getting dressed, getting to and from the bathroom, it can help with those things. And also as I said, the right types of exercises can also help reduce falls. Now there is an additional thing to consider when, especially for doing exercise from muscle strength in older adults, which is that the research does suggest that if we wanna counter sarcopenia, either prevent it or try to help somebody who has its strengthen up. We not only wanna do muscle strengthening exercises, but people probably need to be eating enough protein as well. And a lot of older adults are not eating all that much protein. And I'm gonna talk a little bit more about protein intake and exercise in a moment. So the key thing to remember for advanced age or frailty is exercise is a good idea. You just wanna start very low, go very slow, offer a lot of support. Okay, next, what about exercise when it comes to people who have Alzheimer's and related? So exercise has been studied a fair bit when it comes to cognitive impairment and it's believed to have many benefits. I mean how much it might slow or delay cognitive decline, you know is being studied. But it certainly tends to benefit people's quality of life, their mood, it helps people be less irritable, it helps again maintain mobility and some of these daily life activities. So it has a lot of benefits and for some people it may actually like really help the brain maintain itself for longer. The challenge though, when it comes to exercise, and I know this 'cause I've had so many families make this, you know, approach me with this concern, is that they often, families often find that it's very hard to get a person with dementia to exercise. And so a common situation that I've encountered is that you know, a beloved older person in a family has been diagnosed with early Alzheimer's and as you know, part of taking care of themselves, their family, their spouse may be, or their adult child really thinks that they should exercise, you know, regularly and the person with dementia isn't doing it or doesn't want to do it. So what can we do in this case? Well there are actually a lot of obstacles when it comes to exercise in dementia. So some people who have Alzheimer's or another form of dementia are experiencing apathy or low motivation, which may or may not be a feature of depression for them. Some of them are just forgetting about doing the exercise, some of them kind of want to but just are feeling overwhelmed by whatever it is they need to organize in order to actually do the exercise. And then some of them are actively resisting. They don't wanna be bothered and told by other people what to do or they have some other reason for resisting the exercise. So given that, can we get around this and can we help people with dementia exercise? And the answer is, you know, potentially it is often possible to help them exercise. And so what I recommend to families in this situation is first of all to spend a little time kind of having conversations with the person observing the situation and brainstorming to try to identify all the obstacles that are present in your situation. So in the situation that you are in, is it more that they're forgetting or is it more that there's active resistance or is it that there's apathy or is it that they have pain, you know, in their knees and they they need help with that or they need an exercise that doesn't activate that pain that much? So we wanna identify those obstacles and then we can try to see, you know, well what can we create to work around that that might make it more feasible for the older person to exercise. And that's gonna be different depending on each person. But in general I would say that to exercise, most people with dementia do need others to cue them and encourage them. It's often very hard for people with dementia to stick to an exercise routine on their own unless they were exercisers before and it's already kind of part of their, their habits and motivations. So it especially helps if there's a companion to kind of be providing some guidance and queuing on what to do and some encouragement. But sometimes it can also work to just be in a class, especially if it's a class, A class that's designed for people with cognitive impairment where there's a leader, a guide, and where you know, the being surrounded by other people doing the exercise, you know, is is encouraging and provides some structure and guidance and can feel satisfying as well. The other thing that's really helpful when it comes to people with dementia is to really look, you know, when we're trying to encourage exercises to look to activities that they enjoy as as much as possible or to build in some of those activities. And then again, I do think exercise class is designed for people who are having some difficulty with their memory and thinking is a good idea. So lastly, what about when you want someone else to exercise? So I get asked about this a lot. People who really want their spouse to exercise or their parent to exercise or sometimes their friend to exercise, especially if you know they've been concerned about their friend's health and wellbeing. It's fine to encourage exercise, but you wanna be very careful about insisting because often insisting just doesn't work. So what I would say if you're hoping someone else will exercise more, is to take a step back and start off by trying to get yourself in a place of being curious and wanting to better understand the person's perspective, their motivations, their fears, their desires, and then see if from that you might find, first of all better understand what's getting in the way and then maybe be able to suggest something that might help them see the way some exercise might either become more feasible for them or help them achieve a goal and it may or may not work. And if it's not working, we have to accept that because the truth is that older adults, all adults get to decide how to manage their life and health and they get to make choices that maybe aren't the best thing for their health. And it can be very hard for those of us who care about them to see that they're making a choice that we think doesn't serve them well. But sometimes that that is what we need to do when we're in relationship is accepts that people are making a choice we wish they would make. So some other things you can do if you want somebody to exercise, consider whether you can model that exercise yourself and also consider whether, you know, as you've been modeling that exercise, could you invite your older person to do some of these exercises with you. Lastly, I think exercise is great. I really want, you know, I would love for every older adult to be doing some exercise, but sometimes I see families getting very, very hung up on it. And I think it's partly because they're hoping that it is going to solve the hard problems that they're hoping to avoid. Like, you know, mean that their mom never has to move out of the home where she's lived a long time or that, you know, the cognitive impairment doesn't continue to get worse. And exercise helps a lot. I think it's really important, but it doesn't, doesn't necessarily change some of those big problems that we're hoping it would solve. So hopefully that can be a comfort if you're there wishing somebody would exercise and it's not quite happening. So before we wrap up, just a few words about protein and building strength. So I haven't talked a ton about nutrition so far. Nutrition is important in, in later life. Exercise I think is more important than the specifics of how you nourish yourself. But there is one macronutrient that many experts believe is quite relevant, especially when it comes to the building strength part. And again, building strength I think is really relevant to maintaining mobility and independence in Aging. And that is protein. So research has shown that increasing protein intake combined with strength exercises helps avoid frailty and sarcopenia. And so there is a US RDA recommended daily allowance for protein. It's not specific for older adults and many, many experts believe that the US RDA is not enough for older adults. So the RDA is 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight per day. So in research studies they have often given older adults more protein than that. They get to different levels. It might be 1.2 grams of protein per kilo per day, or it might be 1.3 or sometimes I think they've gone up to 1.5, 1.6. And a certain amount of research suggests that you, you can build muscle better when you combine the protein with the strength training. Now just protein by itself with no strength training doesn't have nearly as much effect. It's not clear to me whether it has an effect at all. But adding protein to strength training seems to build muscles more than just the strength training. And some research also suggests that after you're at 1.6, it's not clear that there's a lot of benefit with more protein after that. So I personally think it can be a good idea to aim for 1.3 grams per kilo per day. So that works out to 0.6 grams per pound per day. So what you can do is you take your weight in pounds and you multiply that by 0.6 and that's about how many. So a little bit more than you know, half your weight in pounds basically is how many grams of protein per day. Now many people don't wanna be fooling around worrying too much about, you know, how much protein are they eating, but I think it can be instructive to at least first of all, find out what would be the daily protein goal for your weights and then take a look at what you're eating right now and your diet right now to find out how much protein are you taking in because most older adults are not getting this amount of protein per day. And the other thing to keep in mind too, a couple other things. First of all, if you have kidney disease, it can potentially not be safe to eat a lot of protein. So especially if you have more advanced kidney disease or if you have any, if you've ever been told there might be something with your kidneys, check with your doctor and make sure it's not going to be a problem to increase your protein intake. And then the other thing to note is that the body has a limit on how much protein it can take in at a given meal. I don't know exactly what it is. I've seen estimates that are about like 25 grams, you know, maybe 30. So you really wanna take that daily protein intake. You can't just eat a giant steak at night and say I did it because that's too much. You're not gonna be able to take in all the protein you need in a single sitting, even if you actually were to ingest that much meat or other food that contain that protein. So you really wanna think about spreading it over three meals or possibly even four. So it could be three meals and a snack. And so often in the studies they end up giving older adults a supplement and, and animal proteins are easier for the body to, to absorb, to digest, to use in the muscles. So people who are vegetarian or vegan can still supplement with protein. There are pea proteins and other forms of vegetable protein, but the, the research suggests that animal proteins are more effective. And so whey, which does come from dairy if you tolerate dairy, can be a good option. So my key takeaways that, you know, I hope you'll, you'll take from this are, you know, first of all that Aging just naturally the nature of Aging is that we lose strength and muscle mass unless we are actually intentional and proactive about maintaining it, which usually requires intentional exercise to maintain strength. And again, walking is not going to be enough. So I highly recommend that all older adults aim to do, you know, the four types of exercise to help retain physical abilities, independence, strength to prevent falls. And those are strength training at least twice a week. Aerobic exercise, balance exercises and flexibility exercises. And it's probably a good idea to aim for each of these to be doing at least twice a week. You can reduce injuries by consulting with your health provider before you start or significantly increase your exercise plan. You can start low and go slow. Avoid untreated osteoporosis to reduce your risk of fracture should you have a fall. So women in particular should get screened for osteoporosis. If you have osteoporosis, please consider treatment with medication unless there's a really good reason to not do it. That will reduce your fracture risk. Look for exercise classes designed for people your age. I think that can also help reduce injuries. Work with a fitness professional, again, preferably one who has experience with older adults, if that's feasible and available to you. And then combine strength training with adequate protein intake. Again, I recommend 1.3 grams per kilogram per day to help counter or delay frailty and sarcopenia that age-related muscle loss, strength and balance exercises are especially good for fall prevention. Look for a validated program and then remember that frail older adults benefit from exercise too. They just usually need to start lower and go slower. So last thoughts, remember it's never too late to start. Every little bit of exercise helps, especially if you do it consistently because even a small amount consistently done will benefit your health, your independence, your mobility, your strength, and help you just be able to stay involved in life the way you wanna be for as long as possible. So with that, thank you so much for watching. If you found this video podcast helpful, if you're here on YouTube, please go ahead and subscribe. If you have any thoughts about what you watched, go ahead post a comment. I love seeing your comments subscribing does help more people find the channel. So if you've been listening to the audio version of the podcast feed, come take a look at the video. If you get a chance, you'll be able to see my key points in the video being displayed. So thank you once again and I look forward to seeing you all on a future episode of the Better Health While Aging video podcast.