- Welcome to Understanding The AeroPress. This is gonna be a big, giant and how to brew with the AeroPress. Here's how it's gonna work. We're gonna look at all of around AeroPress brewing. One of the delights of this brewer is that you can isolate your variables and play with them a little bit more. So that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna ask and answer Now, I will make sure that is timestamped down below. If you want to jump to that, if you wanna go back to and see more about it. I'm going to use my trusty refractometer, my fancy cupping spoon. And hopefully we're gonna learn some really interesting things today. So brew a cup of coffee, cause you might wanna brew another one at the end of this. Two notes before we begin: Firstly, where we're doing I don't want you to really They are, you know, correlated the grinder being used, which is not the same What we're interested in is trends. Like what does a change do to So we're not gonna obsess over numbers. And secondly, there's a Some are kinda performative tastings where I've done the And a few of these will actually be me tasting these experiments Those kinds of tests will be blind while the other ones won't Hope that makes sense. Time for experiment one. The most obvious of them, I suppose. Which is how long should And the way we're gonna I'm gonna take a standard technique. I'm gonna brew 12 grams I'm gonna pour all the water in one go. We're gonna use the plunger to create a little vacuum on top, to hold the brewer as it steeps. And we'll give it a stir at and we'll gently press. We will do this with six With 30 seconds, 60 seconds, 90 seconds, 120 seconds, 240 seconds and 480 seconds, same grind for all of them. And we'll be able to see how extraction is changed by immersion time. Of course, this isn't but it is one of the big questions, where am I diminishing So let's answer that now. So here we've got our six brews from that experiment going from 30 seconds up to four minutes in time. And if we look at the data, unsurprisingly we see a rapid increase in extraction early on beginning to flatten out And from a taste perspective, that's not very nice. It's not bad. It's just not very nice. Better, a little bit more And as we get to this point, certainly by here, things And I would argue for this we're hitting a point between two and four minutes. As we get from two there is that little bump in quality. I think it does get a little bit sweeter in this particular, simple test, but certainly in a cafe environment, I'm not sure that I'd be willing especially because, you know, no one would be tasting and picking and choosing. On its own, this is a nice cup. At eight Again, we doubled our brew I'm not sure we've seen, really, a good return on our investment. You know, it's a tiny bit better, but not really much in this situation. For me for this grind setting, I'd be looking at a two-minute brew. Now, you might argue well, what about different grind settings? And that's a good point. If you look at the same experiment done, say, a coarser grind you'll see that the coarser you grind, the sort of the lower your because you have less surface area, and the slower that extraction is. Okay, well, then the as fine as possible and then that's the most Well, maybe, but maybe not. Something we will touch On now to our next experiment. So this test, relatively simple actually. You'll notice in the previous brew, before we plunged, we Well, what's actually happening there? Is there a big kick in How much of a difference does that make? So we'll do a side-by-side with a couple of different grind settings. Doing essentially that same recipe with a stir and with no stir, just to see how that process, how that little addition So here's our test brewed. Our coarser set here, no stir and stir, and our finer grounds set Starting at the courser set, really interesting difference here. The stir has made a massive This cup is incredibly weak and empty and boring and hollow and dull, and has been improved So it's definitely bumped up and actually when it came a lot, a shocking amount here. However, where we've and we were already operating at a sort of close to the because we're grinding happening much quicker, the stir, well, a different story. Yes, there is an incremental with the stir, but it's not huge, right? Because we've already by having a finer grind, that stir didn't make as it did over here, where we'd done a much with the coarser grind It would be one where if and I was stuck with it, then I'd be thinking a and making sure that I to get those extraction numbers up. Whereas with a fine grind, I'd be worrying a little less and certainly not being you know, just a gentle Now, in the theme of stirring, one thing I now wanna check is, is is there any difference You know from my V60 technique that I really like to that is kind of uniform in whereas, you know, stirring is typically more localized around the spoon. In a V60, a bigger deal, in a small AeroPress, maybe not as much. So we'll do a swirl just like this with the finer setting and the coarser setting. See if there's really any difference, whether it's stirred or swirled. An interesting test. I once again, you sort of see more than you do where the at the sort of finer end of things. Here, there's quite a between the two cups, and there's definitely a little bump in extraction with the swirl. And I do prefer the swirl, just for that little Now, this is obviously not the first time I've done these tests. I've historically preferred from blind testing through measurement, all that kind of stuff. And the same, broadly, is true here. There's not much in it, at the finer ground but there's a little kind of extra kick of sweetness that isn't there in this, harsher compared to that one there. It's a single brew. But I think it's a good demonstration of a broader effect. So my preference has though at finer settings, I don't think it matters that much. Next up is a test that will involve some So new territory, which and that is testing the bloom. Blooming is very common where you add a little bit of hot water to the grounds and let them sort of steep, let them degas a little bit so that you have a higher chance of an even extraction afterwards. Get rid of that CO2 that's in the grounds that can be a bit of a troublemaker. Typically, this isn't but it is done by some Here's the test. We're gonna brew two One will have a bloom for about 30 seconds and then an additional And the other one we'll just and they'll be brewed We'll do that twice, with the same grind setting, actually, to really dig into this. And then they'll be put into a while I'll have to pick the odd one, out of three bowls each time. If you're not familiar they are a better than an AB, because I have to, you know, instead of 50/50 twice. So the odds of me being You can do two out of fives. Those are - or three out of fives, those are tougher still. But triangles I think So firstly, can I pick the odd one out? This is really tough. I'll say right now, if I get these right, it'll be interesting. But the differences are really I oddly feel more confident with this set, I feel like I definitely don't like this. If it's the odd one out, will be good. This set is more difficult, which is why it's always Even one triangle test on Two is a barest of minimums. There should be three or four or more and more people doing them. No, can't. So, which was the odd one out here? This one, honestly, they taste the same. So this one has no bloom. It tastes indistinguishable I can't tell them apart. This, I'll be interested I've got this one right. Interesting, it was a more So this is a bloom and I felt And this is the no bloom. I liked this less. It just feels a touch I don't really know why, it just is. From this though, I would say that that blooming doesn't have a staggering impact. If you're steeping for long enough, that's gonna do the work. The infusion is gonna do the work. I'd be shocked, and we'll test it, I'll be shocked if these in their extractions, they Another blind test for me. And this one probably falls under the kind of received wisdom thing for me. It's the topic of, do you press to the on an AeroPress? If you don't know what I'm talking about, maybe you haven't brewed Now, many people say, don't keep pressing once you start to hear the hissing noise, once you press the liquid through, don't press that last cause it makes the AeroPress taste worse. I don't know if that's true. So we're gonna find out. We'll do the same thing we did last time, which is four brews, two pairs, same grind setting across and see how I fare, picking Now, this is blind as before. I don't know what's what in these bowls. But what I do know that is that the yield difference was pretty small between the two. So if you measure the between hiss and no hiss, you got six grams more So six grams more to That six grams would have to truly impact the flavour, surely. Well, maybe it does. Let's find out. Does it make a big difference? Let's say this is the odd one out. And I would say, It's a touch, harsher, really difficult. Again, first set, really super hard. And these are a little cooler. I can't tell the difference This is a random choice. So if I get it right, then know that it's random, that I didn't earn it as a success. I'm going to say you. As the odd one out, but I don't know. Is it right? No, no it's not right, couldn't get it right. Which one is it? It's not you, it's you! So that one was the hiss. And I couldn't tell. Couldn't tell at all. Here, I didn't get it right either. So we can say with some confidence that the hiss, no hiss thing, It's six grams of liquid that I think this is AeroPress superstition. I'd love you to prove me wrong. Let's move on. Now, next up is a topic that you could argue is but I think it's particularly And that's dose and ratio in a way. Now, a lot of people say to what you should do is put and then dilute the brew afterwards. What I want to do is a quick experiment to show the impact of changing your dose while keeping the amount of water that you're brewing consistent. How does that impact extraction? So in this brewer I'll put 12 grams, in this one I'll put 18 grams, and in this one I'll put 24 grams, we'll brew three identical brews, 200 grams of water in each one, same brew time, same process, and we'll taste to compare the output. So we've got our three brews done. 12 grams, 18 grams, 24 grams, 200 grams of water each time. This bowl as a result because coffee retains water So having more coffee Now, having measured them, this has sort of demonstrated of coffee brewing and why If you change your ratio, you change the dynamics of extraction. This bowl is more extracted than this bowl which is more extracted than this bowl, because there is more water to do the work per gram of coffee. That's the deal. Now, in the AeroPress, it's very common to and dilute it down later. This would make a very different cup once diluted than this. It's a less extracted a more acidic cup. So you would have to work to make this work. Not saying it can't be done, but you would need to adapt. So you need to grind, finer, even though it's an immersion brew. And you would need to or agitate more, you know, you're going to have to do a bit more work to get the extraction And this cup tastes nice This cup, you can tell, like there's a kicker of You know, it's getting which in filter coffee This, as it is right now, undrinkable, really dominant acidities and quite woody flavours Just not a very good brew, fundamentally. And so it's worth bearing in mind, if you're looking to adapt the AeroPress to try and get more liquid out of it, that you are gonna have to totally change your brewing dynamic using the lessons that So now I need to talk about of the decision tree of AeroPress brewing. And that is the inverted method. The idea with the inverted method is to have the plunger and the base, and you brew with your They can't go anywhere, no At the end of the brew, put your top on, flip it over onto your cup and you press as normal, pretty simple. Couple of drawbacks. Firstly, you lose some By having the piston on the bottom here, you actually have a So I'm gonna brew as before, only 200 mls of liquid, but bigger brews just will not work, and often smaller brews are preferred. You need the plunger a decent distance in, because at some point you're And when you do that, the last thing you want is for this plunger to pop out, because in that process, It's a hot mess, quite literally. It's the process of agitation that causes a rapid degassing of coffee, that creates a bit of pressure inside here that pops this top off. So it's that motion of That initial kind of movement, things can go horribly wrong. So do, if you do this, make sure your plunger is reasonably well seated Now, I'm gonna brew three brews here. For reference, we'll do one We just put the coffee and water in, see how much goes through, see how badly it damages our extraction. I'm gonna brew a regular method holding a sort of vacuum to stop liquid dripping through. I'm gonna brew an inverted method and see if there's really any benefit to the inverted method. So we've got the three brews here. We've got the nothing at all. We just let it sort of drain through, though not that much went We've got the one with by the plunger being in, and then we've got the We've pulled the TDS data and it's... let's just say incredibly which is quite surprising. So time for a taste test. Let's do this one, let's So I'm gonna step away. We're gonna mix these up, and we'll see if I have or if any of them have big, So I know. This one is a little bit hollow compared to the first two. It's just lacking a certain So my guess would be, this would be the one where we just sort of let it drain through and we didn't hold it. That all the water be in for as long as possible. These two, more difficult, very similar. I don't have a preference between either of these two personally. I think they're both very good. I'm not sure I can, you know, say inverted tastes better than vacuum in the top or vice versa. Let's find out. This is the N for no, nothing. That was indeed the one I thought it was. That one is I think the inverted. And that one, the vacuum version. I would say I don't taste a benefit in doing the inverted method, that's my sort of summary here. And historically that's why I don't really like the inverted method. I don't think there's really a win there. You added a lot of risk making a terrible mess, and you lose some capacity of your brewer. I don't think you gain much in return. And from a, you know, I can't tell them apart. The extraction numbers I think it's just an extra step, that's maybe not necessary. Time now for a very interesting topic. And you might've noticed that one of the AeroPress I've been using looks a little bit funny, something strange is inside it. Lemme tell you what's going on. So this plunger, as you can I asked Gabor, who makes if he could adapt the and he could. So you can see here, the little mesh in the piston here, and then there's a little tube that connects it to a This will allow me to see, control the pressure inside an which I just think is super cool. So this connects via and I will have on my phone a little gauge and also a graph showing Kind of amazing. And why would I wanna know? Why does pressing matter? That is a great question. We know from the world of espresso, that pressure can be good, but pressure can cause problems If you have a lot of pressure and you have a weak pressure will exploit that and more liquid will flow that will taste bad. Now, what we see in Espresso grinding, is that as you increase pressure, your yield kind of increases and at some point you hit a wall and you get so much channeling even though you're grinding finer. And so for any grind setting, there'll be a kind of peak pressure before you sort of cause channeling. Now, I don't know if channeling but I think we should find out. Now, the pressures are much smaller. For a human being to inside an AeroPress is quite difficult. I've really not gotten much of throwing all my weight on this thing. Let's not brew like that. No one brews like that. We're going to be probably working in the range of maybe for a kind of normal Now, interestingly, Alan, is very against pressing hard. He wants a nice gentle press. He feels that a higher and that's a problem. I wonder if it causes channeling. He might be right. Is there a limit to how hard we can press? What I'll do first of all, is a series of pretty simple brews. I'll brew at ever increasing pressures to see if we suddenly see that might be caused by channeling, but that would give me an too hard to press. So I'll do my best. It's quite tricky to do it manually, but I started maybe 0.1 try one bar, see how we do. We use the same grind, same And let's test the results. So we've got our four brews here. Starting over, actually on this side with the sort of gentlest Now, the reason this isn't blind is because it really can't be blind. If you look at the color of these bowls they're all dramatically different. What's happened here basically, is that the harder we've pressed, the more material has sort of made it through the AeroPress paper. The AeroPress paper is And I think at certain pressures, you just blow stuff through it. And that's what we see here. A ton of suspended material. It looks like a much lighter brew. It's extraction level is lower. We'll talk about that in a second. But not as low as it looks. So we knew there was We made sure we use these, these little paper filters that sort of filter out particulate before you refract it and No point doing a blind tasting, because it's literally can't be blind because the color is so obvious to just show me which bowl is which. Taste-wise, lower I'm very happy with that. Slightly higher pressure, really not much has changed. It's a tiny, tiny bit, but confirmation bias, It's not a blind tasting, But it's basically a nice cup of coffee. Here, where we got up I started to press with a bit of force, no, really quite hollow, suddenly really harsh, really no sweetness. This tastes like an uneven brew. And I think that is what's We are not having even extraction through that cake of coffee Let's try 1.4 bars of pressure at peak. Oh, that is um, that is wildly no clarity, nothing That is a terrible, And in comparison, this So I think that the pressure, there's a couple of things. One, the limit of the paper Even at sort of 0.3 bars of pressure, you can sort of see a change in the color of the liquid, indicating more stuff is The question this makes me think about is, you've had this infusion phase. Can you do kind of bed prep, right? Should there be a period of time after you swirl to let as evenly as possible and before you press, will that help the taste? So that's a quick where we're just going and we'll press with identical pressure, and then we'll after we swirl, we'll let the grounds sort of fall down for maybe 30 seconds and then we'll press. Obviously, we anticipate a from the longer contact time. But I would just be if we feel like there's more evenness in the taste of the brew. So now we have two of that are often the We did tweak this slightly. So with the first brew, we steeped for two and a half minutes to make sure that both brews steeped for the same amount of time, because in the second brew, we steeped for two minutes, swirled, let the bed settle for 30 So they both started pressing This bowl over here has more sweetness. It's quite noticeably different. I would say to the other two. That feels less enjoyable. To me that feels like the odd bowl out. This one is the odd one out is B, which would mean I liked it more. And it is the one where So in theory if I'm right, It does not, wrong. So my confidence was half correctly placed and half misplaced. I would say tasting them afterwards is always a kind of a lesson in how easily manipulated your brain is. Like here, I felt like it and it, you know, I Here, it was more subtle. And now I can taste it afterwards. I can taste that it is the odd one out, but I can't otherwise. From my point of view, I probably build it into my technique because I'd rather err and improve things on average than not. A clean cut win would be beautiful, but really we're into the minutia of AeroPress brewing here. And small details are Let's move on to a big Let's talk about temperature. So first test is actually preheating. Now, a lot of people by pouring some water with a paper inside to rinse I want to take it to extreme So this one here is preheating should be fully pre-heated, I'll throw it away in a second, throw in some coffee into both of them, and put the same temperature water in, and we'll see how big to the brewing liquor, the brewing temperature to So that might be a little bit unexpected. I certainly found that I thought there'd be at least but really heat lost is happening out of the top of the brewer. And that's the same whether And that speaks to the thermal efficiency of the material of an AeroPress. You know, if you pour and you hold it, it takes really quite a long time for that heat to get to your hand. So it's a very good So preheating an AeroPress from a brew temperature And you might say, ah, but We'll come to that. First, I wanna talk more Because it's a highly discussed highly divisive aspect Some people really, really believe in the 80 to 85 degrees they believe in brewing We'll use a temperature controlled kettle, load it with different temperatures, and we'll taste our way through and talk about how flavour, evolves and changes with brew temperature. So we've got our five bowls going from 75, 80, 85, And this, I've done loads as an experiment. I think it's really interesting If you have the kit and the time, I would recommend you try it. A couple of tiny points to note that as we went down in temperature, the amount of foam forming and it got harder to press, during the pressing portion of each one, you know, temperature does And that probably impacts pressing, not very important, just Let's talk about taste. Starting down at 75, it's really not bad, it's okay, it's fine. There's not a lot of but it's not unpleasant. There's no dominant acidity. There's no real And as you got to 80, yeah, it gets a bit more of that. You get a little bit more texture, it's very sweet, it's very pleasant, but it's not hugely interesting. What's interesting for me, is that these next two bowls at sort of 85 and 90 get worse. Like I think this is better than this and this is worse than everything so far. And then suddenly at boiling point, certainly with lighter complex, nice acidity, you it's the best cup here, The second best cup is here. And that's confusing. I've talked about this phenomenon before. In the espresso series, talking about temperature, we did talk about how espresso at 80 can be surprisingly good, and maybe at 90 kind of isn't, but at 93, 94, 95, much better again, It's a weird phenomena and kind to brew coffee. In addition, if I was using darker roasts, I suspect that these temperatures And I might get a peak in there sort of 90 or 95 but the 80 would do pretty well for kind of everything. It'll do well for darker roast, medium roast and light roast. You just won't get the in your coffee, you'll have a nice cup, but it won't be the best it could be. And searching for the upper is gonna give you the complexity, and all of the flavours that you spent your good money on. There's one thing left to talk about. Something we've kind of We touched on it briefly when it came to preheating the brewer, but should you be rinsing This is the last question I So it's could to be another triangle test. I'm going to brew four brews, two with rinsed papers, two without, two sets of triangles. Can I detect a rinsed paper So our last triangle and if I pull this one I'll be very surprised. This is gonna be tricky. These brews are identical in one case has been rinsed, Let's dive in. On either of these, I don't know. I guess you. This is random at this point. (slurps) That one... this... I don't know. I don't know. I wasn't right. And I wasn't right. Unsurprisingly, I don't think between a rinsed and unrinsed paper. This kind of makes sense. The idea that you could between a rinsed and an is kind of interesting, right? An AeroPress paper It's very small. And if you brew say, 200 mls of liquid with that, your ratio of paper to Now, at the other extreme, you've got like a Chemex paper, which is four and a half grams. And if you brew, say 500 you've actually got 10 so to speak in contact, I would say with an AeroPress, it's just an unnecessary additional step, and an unnecessary waste of water and potentially heat energy if you're using hot water I'm not saying that's true I'm just saying with an AeroPress, I'm not sure I see a benefit. I certainly can't taste a benefit. Let's wrap up. So firstly, thank you for joining me on this journey into the AeroPress. This video has been an of demonstrating kind and also uncovering some new information and running some kind of fun tests. All of this is of course in service of me creating what I hope will be an ultimate AeroPress technique. What I'm trying to do with is not create the most with thousands of steps. I want to find the opposite, actually. I want to find the neatest, simplest, cleanest way to a great cup of coffee to have that brewer be an enjoyable part of your That's the goal. And of course, that's But it may not have to be There are of course more There's more questions to ask and answer. Lemme know down in the comments below what else we should look at. What other aspects of AeroPress brewing are worth some exploration? I'm not trying to create I'm trying to offer a great technique, my perfect technique. But there's still so many options. So many different ways to use this brewer. Let know your thoughts But for now, I'll say thank you so much for watching. I hope you have a great day.