- Intel's sponsored, or I have never done this before, but shortly after I arrived at Intel's Israel development center, I ripped up the previously Because the lab here is so far beyond anything I have ever that I would've paid them What you guys are about Not just the facilities and the equipment, but the people who created From Core 2 duo back in 2006, all the way to 12th gen Alder Lake. And somehow, maybe they were all sick, PR and marketing didn't get in the way, giving me nearly unlimited lab techs and project leads. You wanna know how the sausage gets made? Wrong video, but if you you've come to the right place. Oh, just like our sponsor, Crucial, don't just work Crucial's DDR5 Ram is so you can load, transfer with less lag time and more efficiency. Get your Crucial DDR5 Ram (upbeat music) Creating a CPU takes a really long time, from this wishlist scribbled to final delivery 12th gen core was about The first step is design, that takes a year or more working tirelessly to build a simulation of a working processor. Once they're pretty sure it's gonna work, the blueprints get handed over to the fab to produce a batch of That's gonna take a few months due to the incredible complexity But that doesn't mean they're the simulated version of the chip can be used in the meantime software and testing tools. And launching any new processor design, let alone the four dies and from nine to 240 Watts of Alder Lake, requires close So at this stage Intel and design considerations, and power consumption. Of course, there's no guarantee that what they get back from In fact, it's pretty much Man I would give just about anything to be a fly on the wall in this room during a product launch. This is the power on room, and when the first ES1 Intel flies experts in every field. Memory, bios, networking, you name it, to here in Israel where they with the goal of powering on the chip, and booting an operating system. Sounds simple enough, right? But no, even the best simulations can't possibly hope to account that can occur in the real world. And I give you my personal that if I brought a black light in here I'd find sweat, blood and tears on pretty much every working surface. - I work more than 24 hours It's really amazing, I was even when my wife give it's even more than that. You will say that. - Once the most game usually through software that ES1 silicon makes its Where the goal is to achieve a much higher level of functionality. And this place is absolutely wild. So make sure that you're subscribed for the deeper dive that's coming. There is so much crazy gear in here that I actually extended my trip to make an additional video about it. Which is another first. But let's get you through It's divided into multiple zones, each of them focused on validating either a specific subsystem CI IVT is right outside the power on room, and this acts as a small for new fixes, which multiple times a day while As you might expect the core IP section, where they validate the CPU And by an even bigger margin than you probably already realize, this lab everything you just saw, actually only contains the team that worked Alder Lake's P The E core, or efficiency is somewhere else entirely. But if you keep wandering around in here, you'll find basically everything else. The mislabeled memory debug team faced some really unique thanks to the four separate that it has to support from DDR4 to DDR5. External devices like need to be tested. And woo. This aisle is fondly because it's full of all the that you might wanna High resolution, high you name it they've got it. And sometimes all at once. This Alder Lake mobile test on two high resolution external monitors, plus the embedded display port display to represent the built-in It's looking pretty good The only thing missing around here is some quality desk What is this mice directly on the table? All of these teams work in testing, retesting, making didn't break your own biz. Until finally we end up in SST. Stress and stability testing is where the smaller scale validation now gets run over longer durations, and at a much greater scale. Most of the ES1 bugs will be squashed, or at the very least bound. And then they go through with more refined beta ES2 silicon. Then rinse and repeat is ready for prime time. Which doesn't mean that testing is over. Every chip that rolls off but at Intel scale quality control can't possibly be done by hand like this. So let's go downstairs and shall we? The device under test, in this case a CPU, gets installed in what's Which is a giant PCB that plugs into and is covered in probe points that can be monitored using This tells the engineers on even a single pin during the test. Then when it's ready, which we met earlier, presses What you're looking at right now is basically the same test rig, but designed for an engineer and work on it manually. And with rigs like these at anything from a single transistor, to a block of transistors, to an entire subsystem of the whole chip, or any combination of the above. And they can do it at all the way up to over a hundred degrees, with the help of the thermal head. Synthetic tests are fine and good, but PPV is the end game. Product platform validation every CPU off the line at this point. And involves taking that and installing it in connected to actual storage And checking to make sure that everything is working as expected. These rigs can do all kinds of cool things that a customer would never They can even have the CPU go to sleep, but still output to a display. I'm sure there's a reason but it's not obvious to me. This one's a little more obvious. I love this room. It's all fine and good to have one processor that works that you validated it with. But if you wanna deliver you need way more data. And robots like this Whether you wanna test with every possible Or, run countless chips through a test where they're using an This is the place to do it. And okay, actually it's not countless, Intel did disclose that get powered on internally in order to hit their quality target. And they never rest, remember that timeline If Alder Lake was started That means Meteor Lake is And if we were to rifle around through the stacks and stacks we would almost certainly find They do everything from to AI and security here. And if Alder Lake is anything to go on all that stuff that's in development is gonna be hecka exciting. Just like I'm excited to NZXT, with NZXT Build is easier than ever. It's available in the US, Australia, Germany, Netherlands, France, and Italy. And allows you to find a PC Whether it be a custom, a Just set your budget, see how your PC will perform and Build takes care of the rest. You can even customize with various NZXTT case options, and RGB lighting setups. NZXT features transparent pricing, with a flat $99,00 assembly And they'll ship within 48 business hours. With all your PC's components NZXT will manage any through their expert live and troubleshooting. There's even free and easy returns for any system that does not meet the build engine FPS performance So check out NZXT Build today using the link in the video description. If you guys enjoyed this video maybe go check out the fab tour. Because I think that's the that can hold a candle to this tour of the research and development center.