[English spoken audio] At the beginning of October 1944, Germany, threatened from all sides, was in a critical situation that even the very effective Nazi propaganda could no longer mask. At the beginning of the war, after the invasion of Poland Hitler seemed invincible. As the months went by, considering that this was a state of affairs likely to continue. However, since the USA after the Japanese attack in December 1941, Hitler and the Axis forces were under sustained pressure in many In North Africa, The Germans had been defeated When General Montgomery and the British 8th Army and had made it bend, Montgomery's determination was as strong as that of the Germans. He had demonstrated it remarkably by destroying all plans for a possible retreat, warning his officers. If we are attacked, If we can't stay here alive, It is this new fighting spirit displayed by the Allies in Europe or in the Pacific By attacking Hitler had found himself involved in more fighting than he had anticipated. His plans to defeat the Soviets that is, before the arrival of the terrible Russian winter, were put to the test. The German invasion forces rougher than expected. In February 1943, the 6th German Army had been annihilated and during the Battle of Kursk For the first time, In Western Europe, the successes of the Allies in North Africa, and the attack on Italy threatened In Germany, Hitler's health was deteriorating. Historians believe Parkinson's disease. The Fuhrer's public appearances were increasingly rare. Yet Hitler and his Axis allies were about to confront the greatest that of the allied invasion force ready to liberate France D-Day, June 6, 1944, was a momentous episode. If unsuccessful, the outcome of World War II Under the supreme command the Allies landed thus taking a decisive advantage over the Germans who were expecting until the attack The Americans tasked with seizing landed on the beaches The British and Canadians Juno and Seward, By the end of the first day, 130,000 men had landed. In one month, more than a million soldiers were fighting in France. The Allies encountered despite the success of the landing, Hitler was not going to give up without a fight. During the summer of 1944, the weather conditions were deplorable. The Allies realized that the road ahead was fraught with pitfalls and that hard battles awaited them. In the East, the Russians launched a large-scale operation, code name: Bagration. Bagration's goal was to push back into Poland, outside what is today all German armies. This operation has been described as one of the bloodiest in history, but more importantly for the Allies, It was the most calamitous defeat during World War II. The Red Army advanced rapidly decimating German units one after the other, causing losses that amounted to more than 670,000 men. Hitler's forces stretched from West to East due to the landing and from this operation, The heavy losses suffered in the East adding to those suffered in the West and the months that followed hit German morale hard. Hitler had to quickly to prove He then revealed his secret weapon, the V1. The V1 had been designed but it was only then that Hitler decided to use it. The great advantage of the V1 was that no pilot was needed. Once launched, thanks to technology it was heading towards its target Its effectiveness was terrible. Nicknamed &quot;Buzz bomb&quot; we knew it was because when the buzz stopped, after a short silence the one-ton charge exploded. Hitler concentrated his V1s on London This permanent threat led to the immediate evacuation of all the children The British were quick to counter these attacks. Of the 2,452 V1s launched, the RAF managed to shoot down about a third. Very cleverly, a British press blackout prevented the Germans from getting an idea of the result of these attacks. Although devastating, Hitler's secret weapon arrived too late In France, an incipient fuel shortage was posing a problem for the Allies. The lack of ports made it difficult to transport supplies. In the North, Montgomery, now Field Marshal, was preparing an offensive on Germany Eisenhower asked him to change his option and seize the port of Antwerp, major operational port, which improved Montgomery, adored by these men, He continued according to his own plans, claiming that Eisenhower's strategy required reinforcements, which, at that time, Having progressed a lot thanks to short and concentrated actions, Montgomery set up his Operation Market Garden. The goal: the bridges over the Rhine which they wanted to seize intact. The word market referred and the word garden For the operation to be successful, these two forces but difficulties accumulated Previous operations of this magnitude had been prepared for months while the preparation of Market Garden without rehearsals Several commanders given the improvisational nature of this operation, but Monty stood his ground. When shown concentrations of tanks very close he claimed Operation Market Garden failed mainly the Allies not having The Germans had to bring in their reinforcements Twenty thousand men died before Montgomery was forced to retreat. Precious time had been lost because of him. It was now urgent to find because without the Allies' route to Berlin would be particularly complicated. As Eisenhower had wanted The Belgian port of Antwerp was the next target. The battle on the Scheldt was hard. It had started and despite fierce resistance It was eventually captured and immediately put back into service for Allied ships. The reopening of the port of Antwerp in the north, as well as the capture of the important port of Marseille in the south of France, put a definitive end to the fuel shortage problems threatening the Allies. The beginning of October saw the end of the Warsaw Uprising. Historical fact very controversial Polish nationalists fought from German hands. This uprising should have been the highlight of Operation Storm with the aim of before the Soviets took control of it. It soon became clear so that the Poles It was the perfect opportunity for the Russians to start from scratch. After Bagration, the Red Army was less than 10 km when she was ordered to stop abruptly. The Soviets watched the Poles fight for 64 bloody days before they raise At the heart of the controversy is not to come to the aid of the Polish Home Army. Some historians believe that Stalin so that the Poles would be massacred to the Soviet regime after the war. The official Russian explanation was a fuel shortage and the exhaustion of the troops who would not have been Undeniably, during the month of October. On the sixth, he had started an offensive in eastern Hungary. If the Russians were to succeed in seizing this area, the door to southern Germany would be open to them. The violent attack began with an action which swept over the third Hungarian army, but the offensive had to slow down a solid line of defense. The Soviets treated Hungarian civilians without consideration, committing atrocities that made Although vastly outnumbered, even when combined with the Germans, The battle of Debrecen ended with honours for his troops. But the Axis could not contain the Russians for very long. On November 4, The Red Army captured the Hungarian capital, Budapest. Athens was also liberated in October. Greece had been invaded but these were contained sends his men in 1941. And until 1944, Greece was an occupied nation, under the control of Axis forces. However, the Greek government in exile managed to raise an army which will prove very useful to the Allies in the countrysides of North Africa and Italy. In October 1944, the Russians were advancing German troops occupying Greece were in danger of being isolated by the Russian advance. When the Western Allies regained control of Athens, the Greek government in exile returned a week later, October 18th. However, these lost territories were not Hitler's only concerns. Conspiracy paranoia and distrust of those around him obsessed him. It was not without foundation a number of assassination attempts against him in 1944. Operation Valkyrie, on July 20, came closest to success. The attack was committed an officer He used his privileged position to plant a bomb with high-ranking officers. Von Stauffenberg before heading to Berlin but they were soon informed It was only before von Stauffenberg was captured and executed. The investigation to find all those involved had just begun. The brutality with which the accused were treated was limitless. Some, very close to Hitler, were involved in the plot. [German spoken audio] The most surprising name to appear who nevertheless had Hitler's full confidence and who had fought so courageously Rommel had previously been chosen the defense of the French coast, whose possibility was confirmed. June 6, D-Day, however, took the Germans by surprise. Rommel did everything but to make matters worse, he was injured. On July 17, an airstrike on his car for serious During his military career, Rommel had always been opposed more specifically During the investigation documents at the headquarters of the plot raised suspicions that Rommel was but the potential leader if the assassination Even if there was no formal proof that the conspirators Nazi investigators Unfortunately, while Rommel was he spoke of his disagreements which was considered Martin Bormann, head of the Nazi Party Chancellery, convinced that Rommel was guilty, wanted his case to be presented Meanwhile, Rommel was visited who made him an offer. Rommel was a hero This is why The officers informed him before Bormann which also meant He had no other choice but suicide. Rommel said goodbye to his family who, two hours later, telling her The German people were informed that As promised, he was buried Hitler sent Field Marshal Von Rundstedt to represent him. Rommel, the first major battle was triggered in Aachen. The Battle of Aix began on October 2. The Germans fiercely defended the city attacked by the Americans. Ironically, the commander of the garrison based in Aix, offered his surrender to the Americans. However, instead of arriving his letter of surrender was delivered to Hitler. The unfortunate officer was immediately arrested and German reinforcements Despite their fighting spirit, The fighting was hopeless. The Americans outnumbered On the other hand, the Germans and held their line firmly. Before being swept away, they inflicted heavy losses on the Americans. The final victory went to the Allies on October 21. Losses amounted to 5,000 men for both sides and 5,600 German prisoners. Heavy toll The month of October both in Europe It marked the beginning of the major American offensive. The battles that took place had forced the Japanese back to the relative safety of their base in the southern and central islands. When the Japanese took control of the Philippines in 1942, General Douglas MacArthur was for the Far East. It was President Roosevelt himself to leave the Philippines MacArthur was reluctant because he felt that the American military to stay to fight. He even considered to continue the fight However, MacArthur eventually obeyed orders and flew to Australia liberate the Philippines. On October 20, 1944, MacArthur and his staff landed on the island of Leyte. The general had kept his promise. The Battle of Leyte Gulf, pitted the US Navy It raged between October 23 and 26. It is considered to be of World War II and perhaps of the whole history In reality, it can be divided into four major battles. Admiral William Hasley was Through careful planning he allowed the Allies, on October 26, despite the first kamikaze offensive ever observed. Troops based on Leyte Island were safe from naval attack. The fate of arms in the Pacific had In Europe, the Allies were and the end of Hitler's reign was near. The Red Army was advancing rapidly the Americans discovered on their own territory A first illustration an area that stretches along the border The shock of the landing over, the Germans had reinforced and built new defenses When entering Germany, one of the priorities of the Allies was German troops, which allowed them to be prevented between Aix and the Ruhr. The clash began on September 19. It was the longest continuous battle on German soil. of World War II, but also the longest because the operations were not to end until February 1945. For the Germans, it was a strategic portion of territory that had to be held, mainly because Hitler was preparing the Ardennes offensive. It was a parking area vehicles and weapons intended to be used in this offensive. Americans planning the takeover of the Ruhr dams which could be opened It was a possible option, but it was to engage in this maneuver. On October 5, the 9th American Infantry Division an important point in the German supply chain. The battle was fierce, both belligerents And it's not until October 16th that the 9th American Division In just 11 days, demonstrating that the Germans were still far from being beaten. Despite the arrival of reinforcements, Schmidt was not taken until November 3. In addition to the determination the terrain was also difficult, consisting of an extremely dense coniferous forest with virtually no roads, which made it difficult for vehicles to move forward. In some clearings, the Germans to give them There were also many covered by the snow The dense forest was also a problem who could not support the troops on the ground. The terrain became a bigger concern because not only but tanks had become American genius had succeeded in the area but it was a perilous exercise. The battle continued and the tone deteriorated Many lives were lost due to the bite of the cold and fatigue. Some of these American fighters in the Normandy landings and those who had witnessed where 3,000 men had been massacred, With the Battle of Hurtgen Forest, Omaha had been a walk in the park. Of the 120,000 soldiers Some 33,000 were killed or put out of action. Although the fighting ended it was costly, that German losses were only half those of the Americans. The capture of the port of Antwerp had improved but transporting fuel to the front lines remained problematic. The Nazis still occupied and Walkers Island, the Celte estuary, Field Marshal Montgomery for the Shelter area to be attacked and Operation Einfach Eight was set up with the objective given to clear the area on fuel supply routes. The bombardment of the German defenses but it's only November 1st that the Canadians The Germans offered but slowly and surely, and the final phase After days of hard fighting, from Walcheren Island and the surrounding area They had achieved their goals. Towards the end of November, the port of Antwerp and fuel supplies were no longer a problem. Shortly after the Allied amphibious assault on Walcheren, other ports were taken the more the Allies' position was strengthened. The port of Zeebrugge, in Belgium, was taken by the Allies in early November, thus completing This was certainly and his dream of a thousand-year Reich, to abandon his dreams Once again, by launching his new weapon, the V2 rocket, over London. German engineers who had already dealt terrible blows to the British. However, the V1 warned of its arrival on the V2, its silence The speed and control of the V2's trajectory were improved, which made it impossible or even be shot down The V2 was the most expensive project of the Third Reich, one hundred thousand Reichsmarks per rocket. This cost eventually but not before Hitler, convinced did not have 6,048 built. There was also a terrible human cost because they were manufactured in factories by prisoners of the Mittelbau Dora labor camp. Some 20,000 workers before the V2 rocket was ready. The first V2 rocket took off in August 1944, but it was not until mid-November hitting Britain When attempts were made to lower it into the sky. The amount of artillery used falling from the sky caused more damage than the rocket itself. An alternative counter-offensive was therefore essential. It was obvious that once the V2 was launched, The British knew that their only hope of destroying them was to do so before it was launched. Initially, the RAF attempted to bomb the mobile V2 sites, but this proved particularly costly valuable resources The next plan about the direction British intelligence for false impact reports to be sent, and then they managed to make more rural and less inhabited. Far from solving the problem, these measures And the only valid counterattack capturing the V2 launch sites and pushing them out of range. But it had to take and the V2s continued to represent a real threat against London Despite the exorbitant expenses of the V2 project and the undeniable success Hitler's miracle weapon made no difference in the outcome of the war. Londoners' morale remained upbeat, at any time while they More than 150 customers and employees were killed in a V2 explosion at a Woolworths store. In total, 2,754 British civilian casualties were attributed to V2s. as well as 6,500 injured. As a weapon of intimidation and terror, Hitler's V2 was effective. However, it was not enough to convince German public opinion that the Axis power was still able to win the war. Although destroying target after target, The V2 failed in its propaganda mission. It was becoming increasingly clear The highest-ranking officers that all hope was lost. But like a wounded animal, the Nazi war machine severe destruction Hitler was determined to continue the fight. Plans had been made but it was a gigantic task short of manpower. The Luftwaffe had been virtually knocked out by the RAF. Allied fuel supplies had improved while those of the Germans Since the oil fields of Romania had been bombed. Hitler knew he had to react. Although it becomes he had realized But he was convinced that he was still able if he neutralized The decimated German units were no longer an obstacle for the Red Army, Hitler therefore studied a plan highlighting the difficulties which he would have to face after the war. He hoped deep down, divide the Americans He was also convinced and American generals In his dismay, Hitler imagined was to gain enough time to Plans The strategists proposed but only two were advanced enough to be considered serious. Both were aimed at the US military, because Hitler remained convinced who had been quite reluctant to Roosevelt's desire to enter the war at the very beginning of the conflict, would demand the withdrawal of their husbands and brothers from the European field of operations if they suffered or were defeated The first plan called for a two-pronged attack against American troops in Aix, with another offensive intended to encircle the 9th and 3rd armies. She was rejected, to cause divisions The second plan By applying the principle of which had been the Germans' goal British lines and to seize the port of Antwerp. Which would allow cutting off but also to trap four allied armies behind German lines The operation would go down in history as the Battle of the Bulge. In September 1944, the area of the attack was the subject of heated discussions. Hitler insisted as a gathering place His successes during the Battle of France in 1940, had been spectacular there. The Allies, moreover, did not expect because they were focused Many German officers were opposed to this offensive for various reasons. Some felt the mountainous terrain was too difficult. Others feared Allied air force German ground forces the Luftwaffe was no longer able to react. The plan would then have little chance of succeeding. The officers in charge of the operation had doubts. Walter Model and Gerd Von Rundstedt to take the port of Antwerp They proposed but the latter insisted that his battle plans be respected. This operation was to mobilize 45 divisions and some additional units once the battle has begun. The shortage of soldiers in the German army allowed only 30 divisions to be deployed, and again by calling on the very last reserves. Divisions composed of veterans and young recruits were formed. If the situation These men would have been discharged But this was Hitler's last chance of these years of fighting. And he had no choice The decline in German fuel reserves was a serious handicap which forced the attack to be postponed It was the last possible date if the attack were to have Facing the Americans, Hitler could no longer afford additional delays. German intelligence had calculated that the ideal date which would open the road to Berlin for them This operation therefore had to begin before this date. Hitler bet that to observe the reaction of the Americans It had been a long time since fate had smiled on the Germans. For this operation, The fog covering the combat zone was good news for the Germans, because in fact, air support from the Allies was becoming impossible. The Germans having managed the element of surprise The Americans had It was therefore vital for the Germans, to attack by surprise. Since Stauffenberg's assassination attempt who had almost succeeded, Information on the Ardennes offensive was monitored and controlled to prevent Luckily French resistance did not extend meaning that the Allies on local news In addition, German radio traffic was kept to a minimum. To replace telephones, telegraphs by the officers This meant that one of the Allies' major assets, the ultra decoder, which intercepted was practically useless. The Germans also applied to those used by Eisenhower namely, the organization under the protection of darkness. However, despite German efforts, that a large-scale offensive was possible. The Allies did not see how from the almost defeated Germans. The alert was ignored. The Allies continued their plan As a result, there was very little aerial reconnaissance on the Allied side. In practice, Hitler's plans went undetected. Around 5am on December 16, American troops in the Ardennes were surprised by the intensive bombardment All German divisions scheduled to join the attack followed. Around 8am, The fog that had spread preventing But as the weather conditions worsened, the attacking troops Despite the advantage of the surprise effect The German advance slowed sharply. Everything started to go The Americans, now aware of the magnitude of the attack, retreated, blowing up bridges which further slowed down the Germans. These, furious and frustrated, toughened their treatment of the captured Americans. Massacres were becoming widespread to fight with the greatest brutality The end of the war thousands of Americans The day after the Germans seized near the town of Malmedy. Upon arriving, they encountered who, after a brief fight, These soldiers, as well as the prisoners taken at the fuel depots, were gathered This gratuitous and unnecessary act of barbarity went down in history under the name of &quot;Malmedy massacre&quot;. Classified as a war crime, he was tried on May 16, 1946 and the commander in charge alongside 42 other members Similar massacres to that of Malmedy occurred in the last and had a contrary effect on those who fought in the Ardennes. They saw their rage to end it increased tenfold. while Hitler believed he had terrorized them. An illustration of this is in the city of Bastogne General McAuliffe, the American commander, was given an ultimatum to surrender. [English spoken audio] McAuliffe replied: &quot;nuts&quot;, This answer went down in history. The Battle of Bastogne continued to rage. Hitler's dream of a final victorious stand was fading away. However, the fate of the Battle of the Bulge was not sealed in 1944. The fighting continued after Christmas losses on both sides continued to mount. Yet 1945 would bring peace still in the throes of war. Hitler's defeat was imminent. The cordial understanding which had brought victory, was coming to an end.