Hello friends, I am Xiaoji. Welcome to subscribe to my channel. Today we came to Xi'an's Bemumen , also known as Xiaonanmen morning market. Every morning from 6 to 9 am, the crowded queues are part of the process of eating, drinking and having fun for people who come here. It is an indispensable part . Locals , college students, and foreign tourists who have never been there come to check in. A flood of people gather here to soak in the fireworks of old Xi'an. The donkey meat is roasted on fire. The cake is crispy and the meat is tender. The cake is big and has a lot of meat. The outer two layers are crispy steamed buns and the middle layer is minced donkey meat. The meat is fragrant, thin but not woody. There is a Chinese proverb that says, &quot;Dragon meat in the sky, donkey meat on the ground.&quot; This shows the deliciousness of donkey meat. Elbow Buns. The elbow buns bought here are really delicious. The baked buns are crispy and soft, with a layer of perfectly stewed elbows in the middle, some onions and green peppers, and finally a ladle of rich soup is poured over the buns. The soul is here to pick its fat intestines Fat sausage is 25 yuan per portion. This kind of delicacy mainly uses soybeans and fat sausage to stew together. One bite of fat sausage and one spoonful of soybeans. The local product is so delicious that you can't help but praise Come on, come on, okay, close, give you a big beauty. Ah, bring the bag over, one, two, three, four, wait a moment , it's like this, take the sign yourself, take the sign yourself , then I'll just put a spoon for you, take it yourself, beauty, there are signs here, here the vegetable box stuffed with leek vermicelli. The skin is thin and the filling is visible to the naked eye. It's super hot when you get it. etc. It took almost ten minutes to get into your mouth. The crust is thin and crispy. Although it is deep-fried, it is not greasy at all. The fillings inside are very full and fragrant with chives. The vermicelli is soft and glutinous. If you come here so early in the morning, you will be happy all day long are some steamed buns . Soup with sheep's blood. Xi'an Hanmin's &quot;Four Big Steamed Buns&quot;. Medium- flour soup with sheep's blood. It's the heaviest. The sheep's blood is cut into appropriate thin strips and doesn't taste spicy at all. The soup also has a strong peppery flavor. Pour it into your mouth while it's hot. The inside is so tender and smooth that you can eat it and you will be sweating profusely. Zhang Zibu 's steamed pork buns with steamed pork buns are very noisy. The soft texture is very good! The meat is fat but not greasy. The meat is steamed with glutinous rice until it drips with oil . . Glutinous rice flour, steamed with glutinous rice flour, Xi'an's traditional old taste, 9 yuan a portion, good chili. The flavor is very similar to that of Youwude and Zhang Zibu's. The difference is that the steamed pork is sandwiched with soft lotus leaf cake and becomes soft and glutinous. The cage is made of bamboo, which brings out the fresh aroma of bamboo without being overpowering . The tofu curd soaked in the steamed buns is tender. The tofu curds are tender and more delicious when paired with the steamed buns. The steamed bun slices soaked inside are moderately soft and hard, and are completely filled with the rich soybean milk juice. The soybean milk has that special bean flavor. After soaking, the steamed bun slices are still a little tough Do you want chili? There and the twists are not pre-soaked in advance. It depends on the diners how much they like it. The oily and spicy ones are still the usual pairing with BiangBiang noodles. Xi'an people have always been particular about noodles. They also like to add seasonings. Put a little more vinegar in the noodles so that it tastes a bit sour. When the aroma and acidity stimulated by the oil are mixed with the noodles, it also has a unique flavor. are two bowls, no chili. I gave it to him, I took it, I took the money , or I grabbed 3 bowls and took them away with Jinhua Shabu-shabu Beef Tripe. Beef tripe skin, three delicacies, spicy ones, all have Jinhua Shabu-Shabu Beef Tripe, Jinhua Bean Skin, the first old-flavor Jinhua Shabu-shabu Beef Tripe in Xiaonanmen. I ordered here. How much does Jinhua Shabu-Shabu Beef Tripe and Bean Curd is actually easier to taste and has the spiciness of the bone broth. Just like the tripe, the tripe is very clean and crispy, not fishy at all, the sesame paste is very fragrant, and the tripe dipped in the special sauce is simply delicious! the tripe and intestine cake cost? Fifteen a The chive beef pie is freshly baked and is very hot. The pancake is wrapped with chive beef filling. The fried crust is crispy and fragrant. The filling is juicy and tender. The chives inside are sweet and don't have the spicy taste of chives. It feels very comfortable~ If you eat this for breakfast every day, you will be really happy! piece. Payment is 12 yuan. WeChat payment is 15 yuan. The mutton soaked buns are chewy and chewy, fully absorbing the mellow taste of the soup. The mutton fiber is delicate and soft, chewy and chewy, which is the basis of the stew. The soup melts in your mouth and is the essence. The clever combination of spices makes it rich in taste. The freshly cooked cured beef in the steamed buns is soft, tender and not too spicy. The steamed buns are fragrant and fragrant. The meat is crispy and delicious . When the butter seeps into the steamed buns, you can enjoy the Hey, how many are you ? I forgot how many you have. Two are high-quality. Yes, yes, yes. I know. There are two less. Haha, I forgot you have one less. Come and see if you want chili or nothing. You can eat here and take it away crispy skin of the beef. The crust of the cake is chewy, filled with crispy beef, green onions, and seasonings. It is soft, tender, fresh and salty. The meat is fragrant and full of spices. The flavor is outstanding and the layers are distinct. . Is there a place? Let's talk if there is a place. You two cakes , we have three cakes. Can we pay 40 yuan for bagging via WeChat ? You still need one. Remember, you must shake it. You must shake it. It's loose. Don't stir it. When you eat it, you must eat it with dipping ingredients. Don't eat it with mixing ingredients . Eat it with dipping ingredients The Golden Thread Oil Tower is a traditional snack in Xi'an . Shake it up and put it in a disposable carton. Add chili oil, garlic juice, and diced kimchi. It has a unique flavor. . You don't need eggs. I'll add some twists for an extra dollar . Well, if you want an egg, don't add one. Add one. The oil tea has a strong, salty and five-spice flavor. The eggs are very tender . The aroma of the oil tea and the sweetness of the twist are fully integrated. From crispy to soft, the eggs are very tender. The tender five-spice flavor is delicious and goes into your mouth . The various flavors are mixed together and you can't tell which one is better. The fish and stir-fried dough are made with cornmeal to make a bright yellow stir-fry, and some of the stir-fried vegetables are added on top. The stir-fried leeks should also be topped with a spoonful of oily chili seeds. This is a classic hot stir-fried rice dumpling with You can eat it or take it away. Eat dry noodles, rice noodles , rice noodles, dry noodles and chili here. Do you want a little bit? It's easy to take away . Eat white and translucent rice skin and cut into chopstick-like thicknesses. Use a spoon to scoop out a large spoonful of chili peppers from the chili oil jar and the red oil will come out. Then add soybean sprouts, salt, vinegar, special seasoning water and other flavors to the oil . 9 yuan. 9 yuan. Do you want to stand a little further away from the chili? Children, be careful of the spicy oil falling on you. This one costs a dollar less, a leek or a sauerkraut How to make the egg box. The outside is crispy, the inside is thin, the inside is fragrant, and the inside is large. The inside is delicious and juicy. The green color of the chives complements the mellowness of the eggs. The more you chew, the more fragrant and delicious it becomes. You can lick your fingers. The copper pot on the small stove with milk, egg and fermented rice is slowly simmering. It smells of milk and wine. When you eat it, the egg blossoms are soft, smooth, refreshing and sweet. It is really full of color, fragrance and , but after drying it, it becomes dried flowers and it smells good when you put it at home. You can also put it in the car. You can get one each of jasmine bracelets. White flowers are tied around the wrist with a green ribbon. A faint fragrance lingers as they step forward. Jasmine soy milk . The ice drink made with jasmine flowers and soy milk has also become a hot-selling summer drink on the streets in summer. The mellowness of the soy milk hits the fresh and delicious fragrance of jasmine. Osmanthus cake. Osmanthus cake. The bottom is purple sweet potato puree and the top is candied date cake. It is delicate, soft, glutinous and sweet but not greasy. You can clearly feel the fragrance of osmanthus in every bite. The sweet and delicious shape is even more unique. yellow rice, glutinous rice and purple sweet potato for 10 yuan each. Oh, two, walk slowly, Zhen cake. You can feel the perfection of glutinous rice and red dates in every bite of this Zhen cake. The blend is sweet but not greasy, with an overflowing aroma. The jujube flavor is particularly rich. The thick layer of rice is also steamed and soft. The overall taste is not too sweet. Eat it while it's hot. It's sweet. it doesn't taste good, refund money , let's keep what we say, The pea cake peas, peas, grains, whole grains, let's pair it with a spoon , look at your storage conditions , and then refrigerate it for a week, pure peas are 100% good, this is 4 yuan less for you. One piece of this is 8 yuan 12. It 's fresh and delicious. is hand-shredded and air-dried. The beef is dry and can be torn into strips. A hint of flavor includes cumin, spicy, spicy, original flavor. The meat is firm and the shredded pork has a unique chewy texture. The more you chew, the thicker it becomes. It is very enjoyable to eat. The chicken is tender and juicy. The meat is fresh and tender, and the taste is excellent. The unique peppery and numbing aroma. The peppercorns are very flavourful. The peppercorns are full of flavor and it does not affect the original fresh flavor of the chicken. The combination is just right. It is not too exciting and makes people have endless aftertaste How much does it cost for one piece? 58. Two pounds of half spicy beef is also cheap . It's spicy. This is bacon , marinated bacon, no meat. It 's spiced. It 's only made in this way. If you come . The cured beef is indeed different from the braised beef in other places. The cured flavor is full. The beef is stewed &quot;soft and rotten&quot; from Xi'an, why don't you try it? It's okay . Is that enough? with moderate hardness and softness , and the taste is moderately salty and light , highlighting the aroma of beef but not fishy. This snack Then buy something that's almost spicy and eat it directly . There are fewer people here, and there are more people. It's 3 yuan a piece, 10 yuan 4 sticks, soy products, has become a popular street food with its unique flavor and rich taste. right ? Is it spicy? It's not spicy. It's not spicy. It's spicy. I'll put two chili peppers for you . Xi'an special beans, spicy and five-spice, eat them directly. It's very delicious. You spent 50 yuan. Chop it, no, no, no, no. The aroma of spices permeates The flexibility and braised bean rolls are a work of art that perfectly combines traditional braised food with soy products. Every bite is a tribute to traditional braised food and an exploration of innovation in soy products. It tastes salty and fresh, with a strong aroma of spices. The aroma of chili makes the brine rich and appetizing. Chop it separately. Mix it well. Mixing it will cause the smell to change. Anyway , if you want to eat spicy food , don't worry about one spicy and one non-spicy. It's delicious. Just put them together . Some people don't like spicy food, so let them be separated. Many people mix them together and come to Xi'an's special beans, spicy and five-spice. Just put two of them. It's very spicy. A chili. Let 's eat Xi'an's special soy milk, spicy and five-spice. It's so delicious. How much does it cost? 15 each There are also Harbin red sausages and smoked tofu rolls in the morning market. The smoked tofu skin looks a bit like light yellow chicken skin and has meat inside. The aroma makes people salivate. The taste is very similar to smoked chicken. . Queue first. If you want to cut it, wait a little longer. The Sichuan smoked bacon and sausages, which are smoked and sun-dried meats, are also mixed with the smoked and grilled aroma of pine and cypress . They may seem simple and crude, but in fact they are what China has become. The most delicious food stall owner since ancient times will make various meat fillings on site according to the needs of each diner. meatballs, the vegetarian She also has various steamed meatballs and cold skin that she has made before. You can buy them home and mix seasoning of the beef, ah , um, then it's 28. I'm selling it for 5 yuan. I won't give you a pound of seasoning if you add 1 yuan and 50 cents to it . I'll give you 4 yuan for a pound of condiment. That 's almost enough for one serving of seasoning. You two can eat it, because some people don't want to taste it. Is n't he saying taste first before buying? Even if you keep it open and use it yourself, drinking tea will make you feel uncomfortable and cause inflammation. Yes, if you can eat it, put it in. If you can't, put it in. Once mixed, don't put at explaining how to eat braised five-spice dried tofu. You can buy it home and use it as a dish or as an appetizer. 6 pieces of orange juice and pomegranate juice. Give me some purple rice. Ah, how can you eat it? Let me put a big one. Can you help me? The big one is five yuan. How much is it? 5 yuan 7. This one is 10 yuan a pound. See how much it is. You have a thread head. Three yuan. You can add Poria. Hey, you can add this. Ah, if you want it to taste better, you can add some white sesame seeds and some red peanuts . You don't want black sesames. You can also add black sesames to the white sesames. This is your personal choice. This is mine and you.