(pleasant chime music) (heavy breath) (TV hums and crackles) (dark electronic music) (static crackles) (static crackles) - [Nexpo] Oh, yeah. I Old-school. Rough around the edges. And by every account, disturbing. (brooding electronic music) What if I told you that that's recently stood out to that I've ever covered on this channel? What if I told you that it's with the revered Local 58 And what if I told you that, tonight, we're going to be pressing while dissecting its secrets and piecing together it's grim lore? Well, as you can tell by the that's because we are. Enter &quot;The Walten Files&quot;, a show birthed on April 26th of 2020 by an online creator named Martin Walls. Inspired by the hit indie classic combined with a clear love for Walls has crafted an surrounding four animatronics for a burger restaurant The place opened in 1974 and was known to host birthday and even animatronic &quot;Was&quot; known to host these things, because due to a few specific incidents, Bon's Burgers is no You see, The Walten Files is structured through just three videos that each contain numerous tapes, jumping back and forth first opened in 1974, and A mysterious person named in each video's description were all made by an extinct Now, Bunny Smiles is somewhat the Fazbear Entertainment and the root of nearly every Deception, curiosity, loss, trauma and regret have as cornerstones of this series, and ultimately leave us questioning what exactly is happening with and who had started this chain so terribly wrong. As you can tell by the this series is gargantuan, with a disturbingly convoluted It's something that's fascinated so I'm incredibly eager to with all of you. So, without further ado, let's dig in, from the top. The Walten Files. (faint upbeat jazz music) (electronic chirping) (electronic chirping) (triumphant jingle) (paper flicks) &quot;This is a compilation of Tapes created by the already I tried to get as much info as I could about what these tapes are, but all I could find was to new employees back in 1974 to 1979 and the rest of them seem &quot;Facility Caretaker&quot; in the year 1982. Hopefully, I can find more soon. Anthony.&quot; (cassette clacks) (VHS machine whines) (TV bleeps) Company Introductory Tape. Archive One. 1974. (dark music) Serving as the pilot episode the first archive within this understandably takes a more at introducing you to the main cast. And yeah, that's all it is. Just an ordinary employee training video. (faint upbeat jazz music) - [Announcer] Hi and welcome to your new job at Bunny You have applied to a job in Technical Support and Maintenance. What does this job particularly mean? It means that you, are the one who will take and fun experience for Bon's Burgers. (dark music) - [Nexpo] As we've established, this first Employee Training created sometime in 1974. We're applying for a and Maintenance and, After this brief introduction, the video goes forth to main animatronic characters called The Showstoppers, Bon the Rabbit, Sha the Lamb, Boozoo the Ringleader, and The four lovingly perform before we get onto the nitty-gritty about what our new job actually entails. - [Announcer] Animated band made by BSI to entertain children. As a technician, you'll be given the role of the Facility Caretaker. Around this fun and magical journey wheel work on certain tasks such as cleaning protocols robot maintenance and repair and learning how to use BSI technology. But first, here's a and Felix Kranken, our beloved found... Which reads, &quot;in BSI the isn't the money or the rating, the most important thing a wonderful experience That being said, with the getting opened in a few weeks, we're looking forward to (pleasant jazz music) - [Nexpo] Alright, hold up. (music screeches) &quot;1975. Closed for Good. Bon's Hm. This video seems to have cut from a year later, giving us some insight into the fate of Bon's Burgers. Before we get into what's new, though, I wanted to back up that stood out to me. That photo of the founders seems oddly uncanny. I can't quite put my finger on it, but with Jack Walten especially, something definitely seems off. Anyway, that catalog and context, and appears &quot;Save, restore, secure. The BSI Storage Facility, is a company project to from the closed-for-good Given the situations about the incidents inside the 1974 Bon's Burgers location, any type of props, animatronics will be carefully moved, inspected, and secured inside a in the St. Juana's Forest for good. A facility caretaker will take and keeping it safe and working properly.&quot; Hm. Considering the fact that the initial role of the facility caretaker was maintain the animatronics, I find it strange that they're this top-secret facility Honestly seems like a pretty questioning what they're If that's what they're doing, that is. (TV bleeps) Archive two. 1979. (dark music) Here, we're presented created by a Sarah Evelyn. It's titled &quot;Bon's Super Sleepover&quot; and appears to convey a night had invited each animatronic's over for a night of movies and fun. Initially, everything seems fine. However, when the narrator begins running through the guest that this cartoon is not what it seems. (pleasant chime music) - [Narrator] For this Boozoo and Billy. Let's check again in case Bon invited Sha, Boozoo and... (chuckles nervously) (chuckles) How are you, buddy? Good to see ya. I didn't (dark music) So, this definitely didn't of the original Jack Walten photo. Clearly he or someone he into these tapes, leaving us After this, we get back to the main story which involves little Bon for everyone to watch. Weirdly, the VHS has that and when it actually starts to play, the TV merely shows the Interestingly, if we take we can notice something suspect. A pill bottle, with the name This will be important later, Later on, everyone heads to bed. We're able to observe each However, little Bon seems making noise in the middle of the night. (faint clattering) (muffled rhythmic thumping) (distorted and garbled moaning) (piercing distorted tones) (suspenseful music) Alright, so it seems into a cartoon depiction of Sophie Walten, the girl whose pills we As we could see, when she lit the lighter, Bon appeared behind her, looking as if it had a Furthermore, we can observe in some sort of work that seems to resemble This hints at the potential of either Bon's Burgers Considering the fact that she seems to be Jack Walten's daughter, Another thing I'd like to which confirms two things. One: that the image from indeed was Jack Walten's distorted face. And two: that something happened to him, leading someone to litter his Also, while the missing the captions confirm that the meaning that his disappearance that the Bon's Burgers restaurant opened. Could this have been the Considering that he was it honestly wouldn't surprise me. (TV bleeps) Archive three. (dark music) Taking place just after we're heading down a forest trail. It's hard to make out in the video itself, but the person filming this saying the following. &quot;So, this is the brand new caretaker for the old Bunny Smiles Facility. I'm recording this because some type of archives Something like that. I honestly have no clue because I'm going there right weird location that's somewhere and I've been driving for 20 minutes and I can't find the place.&quot; About a minute and a few video cuts later, they eventually make their I'm not entirely sure during the ass-crack of night, but hey, let's hope they're making some overtime. Anyway, upon their arrival, they venture inside and - [Caretaker] Anyways, so, Chris told me this place hasn't been somewhere around then, and that So, chances are, it's (TV hums and crackles) (screeching) Oh, my god, the smell. Smells like a sewer down here. (groans) So, uh, I found this thing and for the Relocate Project for the company. Although that doll thing that I found, it most definitely has seen better days. But, fortunately for me, the diagnosis control is right here. So, we can go there and Now, let's, uh... Let's check out the head and mouth. And I will begin with the, uh... The head. (static crackles) Let's begin with the arm. Let's, um, let's check the left arm. Yeah, the left arm. Um, the left arm's... (distorted screeching) (faint music) (pants) (coughs) What was that thing? (distorted clunk) (breathes heavily) (button clicks) (distorted buzzing tones) (eerie electronic music) (dark music) &quot;I can't feel anything.&quot; &quot;He thought I was her.&quot; Brian's... Paralyzed. He isn't dead. Yet. &quot;He thought I was her&quot;, though. Is he referring to Sophie? Considering that she in a work uniform that resembled Brian's, it would make sense, but that Why would Bon seemingly mistaking another employee to be Sophie Walten? Why was he programmed to do this? Backing up to the beginning of that scene, we can overhear Brian talking wasn't open for three or four years. For that entire length of and abandoned, banished to Interestingly, once he made it inside, we can recall that he to something called a &quot;Relocate Project&quot;, that he claimed Bon would be good for. It seems that after this long hiatus, someone at Bunny Smiles made which I find a bit strange catalog had claimed that it For what reason they're I couldn't tell you at this point. But what I do know is considering the fact that Bon had chased Brian eventually catching up to and leaving him for dead, this just might be the worst idea At least, as far as I know. (faint upbeat jazz music) (electronic chirping) (electronic chirping) (triumphant jingle) (paper flicks) &quot;This is another Compilation of Tapes from Bunny Smiles Incorporated. I was able to contact people that have some information on the company. These tapes revolve around that was being executed A BSI ex-employee mentioned that the tapes were really private and only a few people had copies of them. Once the company vanished all tapes regarding the project These are super rare and I'm (cassette clacks) (VHS machine whines) (TV bleeps) The Relocate Project. Archive One. July 2nd, 1978. (pleasant jazz music) (dark music) The footage opens up with about the closure of Bon's Burgers and the purpose of the Relocate Project. The same narrator that voiced is back, and seems to be eager about the future of Bunny Oddly, though, if we look we can notice bits and pieces of visuals that don't quite fit in. Have a look. - [Announcer] Hello, BSI and welcome to the tape that will change the future of and the Bunny Smiles That's right, after four long we finally decided to use our backup plan, which we created after the back in July 20th, 1974. Ladies and gentlemen, the Relocate Project. But before we go into detail, we want to greet all the With the company greeting out of the way, let's start analyzing the has happened ever since the As many of you might have our beloved entertainers were storage facility some months (music distorts) Later on, a good amount of such as books, merch, animated movies. We even got a TV show. That's when Felix Kranken had and reprogrammed the with the purpose of relocating that would be opened in A pretty smart plan, right? Making enough money to eventually reopen the Bon's Burgers restaurant So let's give it up for Felix Kranken, a man with not only a giant (dark music) - [Nexpo] So, clearly Jack into this tape as well, a self-aggrandizing segment Admittedly, this does especially when we consider Felix was labeled as the founder. Singular, with Jack cropped that the pair had taken together. To me, this notion combined &quot;four years of legal there might've been some after this so-called &quot;incident&quot; Further supporting this is the fact that when the Bon's Burgers we can spot a VHS about the hidden behind the others, and to the file section, we can You see it? It's cut off and hardly legible, but the words on the &quot;Jack's still here.&quot; Seems a bit deliberate, doesn't it? Given that these were so-called that means that someone knew something they when they were putting So what actually happened to Jack? Considering the fact appears to have been in merely a year after his long-time friend and business co-founder went missing, to me, Felix Kranken is beginning to seem more and more suspicious as time goes on. (TV bleeps) (peaceful electronic music) Jumping forward a month, what appears to be an regarding animatronic reprogramming. Banny appears on screen is used for these tests. The video initially shows their with captions claiming &quot;Pre-Relocate feature&quot; since reprogramming Afterwards, they move on to a new &quot;Relocate Project exclusive&quot; Ominously, the captions &quot;always&quot; need to keep which I find odd considering With what we know so far about Bon and what he did to Brian Stells, I do wonder if Banny's alive, Anyway, after this brief test sequence, a distorted face becomes implying that they're of a human counterpart, or that someone's locked Once this brief section passes, the video cuts to a top-down view of what appears to be the showing Banny helplessly trying to escape. - [Woman] Must get out. The bunny rabbit needs to get out. The bunny rabbit needs to get out. The bunny rabbit needs to get out. The bunny rabbit needs to get out. The rabbit is starving. The rabbit is starving. The rabbit is starving. (distorted buzzing) (dark music) - [Nexpo] &quot;The bunny The bunny rabbit is starving.&quot; Starving for what? At the end of that entire sequence, we were greeted with a shrouded After brightening it, it but that of a Susan Woodings. The missing date's hard to make out, but it appears to be on So, two missing posters, and two animatronics (TV bleeps) (upbeat funk music) And so we make our way and revised technical support tape made specifically for the K-9 Facility. Sha the Lamb is our host in this one, and states that she'll be and area tour inside the bunker. - Welcome to Technical Support. Today we will focus on the inside K-9, the Bunny We recommend all Facility all needed equipment at the Bunny Smiles uniform. But most Importantly, under any circumstance, Once you have all the we are ready to go. (dark music) - [Nexpo] Barring how uncanny this small section that Sophie was wearing back was indeed a Facility Caretaker uniform. Let's keep that in mind. The next segment takes us outside of K-9. We make a quick check for all the necessary equipment for the job. A lantern, snacks, a key, and a camera, before we make our way inside. Once we do, Sha begins Wow, it's pretty dark here. You should turn on the light. Turn on the light. Turn on the light. Turn on the... (peaceful piano music) It's important to keep track This place can be really tricky and you could get lost very easily. This is the resting room. In this room, you can sit down, You name it. Remember to keep this room as clean and organized as possible. A clean environment helps A dirty environment only makes (peaceful piano music) Alright, this is the In front of you, you These are storage areas. The first door is used to save any kind of cleaning items and supplies. The second door is used to save that was available in a The third door is used to hide... - [Nexpo] The third door The bodies? (dark music) (laughs) Yeah, anyway, so that At this point we have no context or clues about who that could be, (reversed chatter) - Welcome to the basement. - [Nexpo] No, no, hold on Backwards. (reversed chatter) - Rosemary would go to the hoping that her beloved after being missing for weeks. But no response, until one &quot;I know where he is, Rosie&quot; - [Nexpo] Interesting. Given the context, it's that Rosemary is Jack's wife. The ending to that quote, though, implies that something But what? - Welcome to the basement. Right now, you are in As you can see, this is more important items arcade machines and birthday props. Now, please follow me to the next door. (static crackles) At Bon's Burgers restaurants, remember to avoid touching or unless you are a Facility Technician. Now, let's move on to the next room. (music skips) Hold on, I remember we (warped music) Sophie, where am I? (repeated garbled chatter) By the time the lady as the voice told her to, Instead, she found a rab... You're broken. Will fix you. You will beautiful. You will beautiful. You will beautif... (high-pitched humming) (abrasive distorted music) When she woke up, she looked beautiful. But on the inside, it felt like every single part (suspenseful music) - [Nexpo] Alright, so Right after Sha finished we briefly see a photo almost like they're a couple. Sha appears to enter the backstage area, notifying us that only Facility Caretakers should be shining lights on the robots, before leaving that room, only to make her way back to the basement. Afterward, she expresses confusion, claiming that we visited utters the words &quot;Sophie, where am I?&quot; and then walks southbound once more into what appears to be that We then see a cartoon version of what we can assume to be Rosemary, with a strange voice giving more context into that reversed audio from earlier. Instead of finding her she found a rabbit. Bon the rabbit. After claiming over and over and &quot;you're broken, will fix you&quot;, Bon appears to dismember Rosemary before stuffing her Sha wakes up and expresses before we see yet another After brightening this one up, we can clearly see that July 19th, 1974. I'm beginning to see a pattern. Here, we have a poster for Rosemary who we know was killed Earlier, we witnessed who appeared to possess Banny, and at the very beginning we saw one for Jack Walten. Considering that he's been the fact that Bon was one of that we witnessed in this series, and the implications of Sha and Bon, I'm starting that the Jack Walten stuffed inside of Bon the Rabbit. This is, of course, just a theory, but it leaves me to wonder, if it's true, who exactly did that? Let's move on. (TV bleeps) (static crackles) - [Hilary] No, but um, during a short period a certain number of &quot;cases&quot; Yeah. (dark music) So this fourth tape the three facility technicians at K-9. For the first part of this tape, we can overhear them while they're getting their work done. According to them, they're to get these animatronics reprogrammed for the Relocate Project to complete it before then. During their conversation, that they overheard &quot;cases&quot; that occurred back at Bon's Burgers. Allegedly, the place to two to three in the after people reported screams They go forth to explain that so the police could check it out, and on the very last day they had only let two families in. That day, the animatronics were missing, and all the curtains were closed. The next scene takes place two days later. Going by their conversation, they weren't able to get due to what they described as and as a result, they declared before getting ready for in this facility. But, Ashley wasn't quite She begins inquiring on the small key that they were told to bring and how it doesn't seem to have a purpose. Everyone else discounts her curiosity, and they all head to bed. Well... Except Ashley. She grabs the camera finding her way to a After realizing that she heads back there - [Ashley] Um, this place I don't think I have enough and pick random doors After a ton of empty I came across to this door, Kinda weird. Anyway, this room seems to and from the looks of it, some I won't go into detail about of course and (chuckles) this... This is room number 26 or 27, I think? As you can see here, there Nothing that interesting, to be honest. This is the last door. I've never seen this clown thing before. There's absolutely no way I'm I'll probably wait till and come down here with me Um, I found this. I'm pretty sure that clown thing had a cassette player installed so I guess I'll have to be brave and, uh, try and see what this whole thing... I don't really know why this thing installed but my guess is that used for birthday parties, like, it would play a customized I don't know, but we're about to find out. (garbled upbeat music) And a lot of fun Have a happy birthday Things are gonna be (distorted whining) - Jack, Susan. Charles, Rosemary, Sophie. (distorted buzzing) (Ashley gasps) (Ashley breathes shakily) (Ashley screams) (&quot;The Sun Has Got His Hat On&quot;) (distant screaming) - Hello, I'm Billy. B-B-B. Performing movie clown. (distorted carnival music) (dark music) - [Nexpo] Alright, let's unpack this. Ashley ventures off into the something that, given the context, doesn't get explained to that take on the role. This entire scene is the epitome of &quot;curiosity kills the cat&quot;, since, when she went snooping, she who went forth to become What I find strange is had the word &quot;discard&quot; written on it, with Jack's disappearance date above it. Why would this tape need to be discarded? Could it potentially be making them kill people? Speaking of killing, the names that were read-off from the tape are definitely cause for concern. Jack, Susan, Charles, Rosemary, and Sophie. Now, we know that Jack, had all gone &quot;missing&quot;, that their corpses have all been stuffed into these animatronics Considering that Jack, are all part of the Walten family, this leaves me to wonder What's their relation to Bunny Smiles, and why they included in Moving forward, right we get two quick bits of text. Pausing on the latter which we'll come back to in a second. And pausing on the former, &quot;They left the next day. They thought Ashley left early, but she was in the backdoors, screaming as much as she could, but no one heard the screams. The following days, the about an awful smell Company decided to shut down The Relocate Project was unsuccessful. Ashley is still there, but She saw something she and now she's beautiful.&quot; Admittedly, this really drives home just how large the K-9 facility really is. Ashley was left there, screaming for help, while Bon presumably injured her so badly that she couldn't fight back. And nobody heard her. Nobody noticed she was gone. At least, until the smell of filled the air, days later. And so it appears that Jack, Susan, Rosemary, and now Ashley. Four victims. Four animatronics, and about becoming &quot;beautiful&quot;. Now, back to that code. You know what it is. A YouTube link. So let's head there. (merry jingle) (triumphant jingle) (paper flicks) &quot;The story of Bon's where two college of animated performers. Their names were Jack It took them 16 years to and by that time, Kranken and Walten had built their own families. Felix married a beautiful lady and Walten was not only a great husband, but also the happy father of (cassette clacks) (VHS machine whines) (TV bleeps) Lucky You is a bit easier It's one tape, with one archive. (dark music) The video opens by and highlights from Bon's The opening day is shown with the first birthday party Interestingly, this is that Susan Woodings went missing. Anyway, the video then shows us the dates of the final Bon's the actual duration that It was only 22 days. Not even one month Also, it seemed to open 17 days after Jack Walten went missing. A bit strange to open after isn't it? Moving forward, we can then was boarded up and abandoned by Halloween, and by January, the K-9 I don't know about you, but the bunker in the middle of the longer than six months at maximum. Seems a bit like this move for all I know, Bunny Smiles in-place already for other purposes. About mid-way into the video, we can observe it cut to the A voice greets us, and - [Man] You must be so Don't be scared, my little bunny. Answers will be given to solve this puzzle only with This is only the beginning, for I am going to tell you Beautiful people. He is so sorry about what he did to them, but there's nothing he can do. Remember that. Safety in pills, Sophie. Safety in pills, Sophie. Safety in pills, Sophie. - [Brian] What was that thing? - [Nexpo] &quot;Safety in pills, Sophie.&quot; Strangely, this voice keeps while the video cuts On top of this, if we we can observe a message &quot;They will see you soon.&quot; Given all these direct messages to her, it's beginning to seem like this tape might've been made for her. Considering that she was Jack's daughter and is confirmed to have worked for BSI at some point in her life, maybe she witnessed like Bon gruesomely murdering someone. Because of this, we can assume a prescription somehow Whether that &quot;safety&quot; is to help her cope or to forget it entirely, is to be seen, but perhaps we'll get some I just wonder why they're so prevalent. (faint upbeat jazz music) (electronic chirping) (electronic chirping) (triumphant jingle) (paper flicks) &quot;Hey. Long time no see. The following footage is created by the company. The reason it took me so was because the game never and all footage available During October of 1982, a were distributed around and this footage was sent to the Entfernt Hotel. The two girls playing the but the weird thing about all footage from the game was recorded and then revised by BSI technicians to see if the game was This was one of them and quite possibly the only footage remaining of this game. The footage itself was and it took me weeks to be able with the help of a friend of mine, but I'm glad you've all It seems to be a huge one, anyways.&quot; (cassette clacks) (VHS machine whines) (TV bleeps) Bunnyfarm. (low-pitched electronic music) (dark music) Being one of the more streamlined you'd be surprised to know By far. The video opens up with the intro sequence, followed by numerous cuts to various points within Strangely, we can see a sad and if we look closely, we can also spot a brief news sequence from a &quot;Local 57&quot; about an incident that occurred The same forest in which Brian Stells was left for dead by Bon. After this, we're notified is Sophie, before we see that of another, named Jenny Letterson, and the Interestingly, this was the Brian Stells incident, making it the most recent The game launches. Jenny explains to Sophie that the machine that they're playing on in the basement of the the Entfernt Hotel, and that that Bunny Smiles created for testing. Curiously, if we head we can see that development a year after Bon's Burgers The exact reason why they but I find it interesting with development nonetheless. Anyway, the two joke around a bit before Sophie makes a Before she can actually play, though, we can see a brief intro for the Bunnyfarm storyline. Apparently, a fruit festival's occurring. However, none of the characters Luckily, though, a Pete the Hippo has a barn full of &quot;any fruits you need&quot;, and will grant you access to it, if you help out around the farm. Seems simple enough, eh? Let's see how it played out. (electronic chimes) Hm, you know, something is the, uh, the artwork? I don't know why but there's really familiar to me. - [Jenny] Huh. Right, I should show you the controls, so you don't have a hard - Mm-hm, alright. So you use this thing to move around. - [Sophie] Mm-hm, okay. - [Jenny] And you use these - [Sophie] Yeah. - [Pete] Apples. - [Jenny] Yeah, I played a few years ago and I... (dark music) - [Nexpo] So here, that the game's super unfinished, hammering home its potential for glitches. (distorted buzzing) And bugs. Strangely, though, Sophie of anything she's doing or who the characters which I find incredibly suspect, considering that she worked and is one of the founder's daughters. You would think that if her after having pretty substantial involvement with Bon's Burgers, that she'd at least It's like she doesn't even know them. Like she's forgotten everything I just wonder if something Interestingly, a few moments later, Sophie puts these suspicions to bed, making passing references to the pills that we've seen throughout - [Sophia] Yeah. Thing is, the pills have a lot of stuff from my and like, I started taking I really don't wanna think about it. (dark music) - [Nexpo] So her memory's but that opens an entirely Like, remember that phrase Sha spit out in the Relocate Project tape? Remember how out of place it was? - Sophie, where am I? (repeated garbled chatter) - [Nexpo] Something lured her backstage, but what if it wasn't Bon, but Sophie? If we think back to the we can recall that one brief lit the lighter and glitched What if this is what greeted Rosemary when she went backstage, meaning that Sophie had a If this is true, then if she did this willingly or Just a few thoughts, but perhaps we'll gather The two then discuss a and the events that recently Jenny explains that a person named Brian had recently gone missing to that of this &quot;other girl named Ashley&quot; who met the same fate. - I know you're into that- - [Jenny] Bunny Smiles Incorporated. - [Sophie] Have I heard that name before? - [Jenny] I mean, that company these past few weeks, didn't you hear? - [Sophie] What? What happened? - [Jenny] Some weird rumors and shit. Apparently there was this one employee that drove to some forest a few days ago, not too far away from here, actually. He hasn't been seen around, ever since he drove to that place. - [Sophie] Really? - [Jenny] Yeah. The word got out quickly. Some family members say - [Sophie] What's his name? - [Jenny] Brian, I think? - [Sophie] Well, I hope - [Nexpo] Clearly, word's gotten around about these mysterious disappearances, and I find it strange that I don't know. If I were to be playing to so many peculiar incidents, But, that's just me. After this, Jenny then claims to finish a paper, leaving to play the game herself. - Alright, first we need They should be in the... Party. The track. Now we need... (distorted audio artifacts) (jaunty chip music) - [Sophie] Alright, how do I... (triumphant chip music) (jaunty chip music) - [Nexpo] And so, Sophie presses on, occasionally expressing at the glitches that appear on screen. It weirds her out, but Anyway, she eventually of Billy the Clown's level and After beating him at it, Jack's face appears before showing Ashley's mutilated face (distorted chime music) (distorted audio artifacts) - [Sophie] Jenny? (distorted music) Restart the level. (droning electronic tone) Christ. Nevermind, never... - [Nexpo] Sophie hangs She's seen enough. (TV bleeps) One night later. (suspenseful music) Sophie decides to play the game again, however, realizes that her save file has been corrupted by a &quot;third party&quot;. This screen proceeds to then the machine could and even a complete shutdown. A bit tense, she agrees, Her mood is almost a complete and the game reflects that. Sophie goes forth to that previously mentioned Pete However, this time, for we're able to read that it's been altered. &quot;He promised to take care of He told the parents everything was okay. It's sad that we can't but soon we'll be Rest in peace. The two lovely red children. May 11th, 1962 to May 2nd, 1974. August 22nd, 1965 to May 2nd, 1974.&quot; It doesn't appear that because she carries on as usual, but let's keep this weird message in mind. A few moments later, she begins Banny's game The premise of this one that Banny mistakenly let out. (jaunty chip music) - [Banny] Wouldn't it be I think it'd be really funny. I think it'd be really, really funny. Yeah, I think I'm gonna (pigs snort) - [Horse] Oh, no, Banny! All the pigs have escaped - [Bon] Banny, you dumb bunny. - [Banny] I, I'm, I'm sorry. I was just trying to help! - [Nexpo] And so we carry Thanks, Banny. You bunny. (dark music) So Sophie continues, to the glitches she's been She mentions how it seems in the game are trying before the game cuts out, from Susan Woodings. - [Susan] BSI Technical June 30th, 1974. Jeremy's birthday party I decided to stay and help This week has, uh, been, uh, strange. Especially because of the opening. I find it weird that even though Mr. Walten I hope he's doing alright. Rosemary came today and asked I'm pretty worried about it. Felix seems very concerned Anyway, the birthday. Everything went according to plan. This was the first birthday and I feel it turned out pretty well! I noticed a few and in the audio animatronics. As the engineer and the person who basically built the it was easier to notice these. Especially in Bon, (sighs) The limbs weren't moving properly. They looked stiff and odd, Take a few more minutes to just to make sure everything's okay. I'm the only one left. Chris left some hours ago and I'll leave and close the I'm sure that's not going to take long. (distorted humming) (distorted whining) (high-pitched buzzing) (high-pitched buzzing) (suspenseful music) - [Nexpo] Given what we just watched, we're able to establish the connection between Susan Woodings She built them, and noticed It seems that, as a result, she set out to repair him, however, was mangled and &quot;I am still alive. But I can't move. And I'm having trouble breathing. And my stomach feels weird.&quot; This drives home the was placed inside of Banny, but that leaves us wondering always having irregularities, or if someone tampered with him. Considering that this was 19 entire days after that notion wouldn't exactly be out of the realm of possibilities. Sophie continues. She makes her way around the and concern about what she just witnessed. Soon after, though, she encountering a strange from a Linda Kranken, whose and replaced with &quot;Thompson&quot;. Unfortunately, most of the are redacted, however, we of the story through the ones that aren't. - [Woman] October 30th, 1964. Felix has been acting weird lately. He's been drinking more than usual. I'm very worried about him. I don't know what to do. August 23rd, 1965. I know I haven't talked This month has been so, so, so, so crazy! I moved in with Felix last week. Yesterday, Jack and Rose A little girl. Her name is Molly. Molly Walten. Jack and Felix have been with a company that's The name's Cyberfun Tech. December 26th, 1970. Christmas was nice. They built a doll, a gray Molly named it Rocket. Felix drank a lot yesterday. This has been a problem for a while. He's a good person but he It's getting worse and He feels bad about it, January 3rd, 1973. It's getting worse. He's so submerged with their how much damage he's doing to himself. How much damage he's doing to me. He keeps going places only to drink. Sometimes he even stays at the warehouse for the sole purpose of drinking. He doesn't listen. He never listens. I don't know what to do. May 2nd, 1974. Dear Felix, by the time I shouldn't be home. I know you're confused. I'm confused, too. What you said to me but it opened my eyes. Hopefully this opens your eyes, too. Our relationship isn't healthy. It never was. I'm leaving Brighton this morning. You're in the warehouse as I'm writing this. By the time you're reading this, I'll already be in Hurricane. I know you are busy Something related to a school party. I can't remember, but please go there when you have the time. As for me, I'll try to build and you should do that, too. I love you. Goodbye. Linda.&quot; - [Nexpo] Here, we gain into the backstory of Felix Kranken, someone we've had our suspicions about from the very beginning. As it turns out, he ultimately leading to the and his now ex-wife, Linda Thompson. On top of drinking, allegedly causing damage to not only It seemed that, as an act of good-will, he built a rabbit doll youngest two kids, Edd and Molly. Keep these names in mind as Moving onward, Sophie eventually the Ringleader's minigame, The premise of this one involves against Boozoo to test the entertainment for the upcoming party. Sophie obliges. However, things don't quite go as planned. (jaunty chip music) (spring twangs) (spring twangs) - Congra... Gratulations! You're very good at this! - [Nexpo] The next mini game after this is called &quot;Spot the Difference&quot;, and is pretty self-explanatory. After a few rounds, though, the game glitches, displaying the... Actually, I'll just let you (chaotic distorted chatter) - Congratulations. You completed my game. (distorted and garbled chatter) (solemn organ music) - [Man] Missing 07-14. Missing 07-14. Missing 07-14. Missing 07-14. Missing zero, se... (heavy breathing) (distorted chime) (dark music) - [Nexpo] &quot;Missing 07-14.&quot; It seems to me that the face in that game isn't actually Jack Walten, Since, for him, he went Not the 14th of July. With this in mind, if of the Relocate Project video, the names on that list were... - Jack, Susan. Charles, Rosemary, Sophie. (distorted buzzing) (Ashley gasps) - [Nexpo] So we know that and we also know that Susan are stuffed inside other animatronics. The only name remaining is Charles, leaving me to wonder how or anyone in this entire saga at all. Anyway, back to the farm. Sophie continues. Ominously quiet and littered she explores a bit that she just might know the the game's been showing her. A short while later, she before the game glitches, for her to complete. That of Sha the Lamb. The same animatronic we know The mini game this time and initially has Sophie's - [Sophie] I need to find that sheep. (game chimes) (game chimes) (dark music) - [Nexpo] After she eventually finds her, we can observe the game switch sides to where Sophie's the one this is where things quickly turn dour. (game chimes) (game chimes) (sweeping orchestral music) (distorted operatic singing) - [Sha] Am I still (distorted audio artifacts) (Sophie gasps) - I know you. (donkey brays) (sheep bleat) (sheep bleat) (dark music) - [Nexpo] As we could see, the screen cut to what I'm that Rosemary went missing &quot;I know where he is, Rosie. Follow me.&quot; Now, initially I'd assume like the voice of Bon, since they're referring to her as &quot;Rosie&quot;. However, thinking back on that scene from The Relocate Project tape... - Sophie, where am I? (repeated garbled chatter) - [Nexpo] Perhaps this text could represent the voice of Sophie. After this, we're greeted and when it finishes, we (game chimes) (distorted abrasive music) (distorted abrasive screaming) - Holy shit. Holy shit. (chaotic distorted music and screams) Holy shit. (dark music) - [Nexpo] It seems to me represented the night that through the eyes of Sophie. With the bloody Sha animatronic screaming and pleading like we're experiencing This scene is undisputedly traumatic, and witnessing something like this would undoubtedly leave With that being said, considering that Sophie's name that Sophie's actively taking pills that we know suppress her memory, and that in that Lucky You &quot;safety in pills&quot;, over and over, it's safe to assume at this point that Sophie must have been there. And so the question remains. Did she willingly lure or was she forced to? Jumping forward, we witness emerging from their so-called Sophie goes forth to ask who they are, to which they respond by After this, the game glitches once more and the bear vanishes. A few seconds later, though, we're greeted with the picture of a house, labeled May 2nd, 1974. And on the doorstep? Two children. Sophie claims to remember it. - [Sophie] Shit. That's my old house, I think. - [Rocket] Hello, there. I'm so glad you're here to All that's left to do is to... (phone rings) (phone rings) (phone rings) - [Nexpo] That phone to Felix Kranken. Jack asks for a simple favor. To take his kids Edd and since he and Rosemary are - [Jack] School event tonight. A school party and they I need to stay at the workshop and Rose is, um, taking We were wondering if you could and take them home later. - (sighs) Tonight? If it's possible, of course. (dark music) - [Nexpo] Admittedly, the task is simple. Pick 'em up at five to take 'em there, and bring them back home at nine. Reluctant, Felix agrees, And so, the game leaves us back After poking around a bit, Sophie eventually encounters and upon interacting with them, we gain a bit more context (distorted buzzing) (brooding orchestral music) - [Sophie] That's Edd and Molly. That's Edd and Molly. (game chimes) (muffled chatter from radio) - [Nexpo] After this brief in the school at what Rocket the rabbit approaches After exploring a bit, we and become those two have not been picked up yet. Soon after, we encounter Rocket and are shown a scene expressing that they're &quot;the school looks creepy at night.&quot; &quot;Where's uncle Felix?&quot; They claim. And so we set out to find him. (muffled and distorted music) (distorted indistinct chatter) (dark music) Shortly after, the scene cuts to 9:53 PM and involves Felix and The kids inquire on getting home safely, before pressing Felix about The speed of the car picks up, with Felix becoming more and more erratic. The children forgive him for his behavior. However, ominously, the &quot;It's all your fault&quot;, before - [Molly] Okay! - [Felix] (chuckles) Thanks, Molly. (distorted country music) - [Radio Host] NYQ. The Q. (car horn blares) (tires screech) (distorted yells) (eerie chime music) (dark music) - [Nexpo] Now, I believe this, right here, marks the beginning of the between Jack and Felix. Jack's children were killed. And it was due to his own irresponsibility in getting them home safely. Even more bizarrely, soon after this bad-ending we can observe a scene with with the voice ominously claiming that &quot;They didn't go home that night. He buried them here. He was too scared, but they (distorted sobbing) (phone rings) (phone rings) (phone rings) (phone bleeps) - [Machine] You have 25 new messages. (phone bleeps) - [Jack] Felix. Pick up the phone. Now. I need you to pick up the phone. It's been three hours since I told you to What happened to my children? If anything happened, You haven't called me in three hours. I need to know what's going on. I've tried to call you all night. What the hell is wrong with you? I... I've been trying to contact you all night. I've been calling everyone for you. Just what the hell is wrong with you? Three hours, you didn't call. I asked you to do one simple favor for me. I need to know, where are (phone bleeps) - [Nexpo] And to cap off this last entry in the Walten Files saga, - [Man] But that's not all, is it? There's still something They've been waiting for you. - [Nexpo] Before we're greeted Banny. Boozoo. Sha. Bon. (chaotic distorted music and laughter) (dark music) Considering that this series this message could be Is this little girl popping Or is it someone else For all we know, this could given that, so far, but help Sophie remember the past that she's been forced to forget. She's the last alive and I'm not entirely sure if the deaths of her entire family It looks like we'll have to see. (triumphant jingle) (paper flicks) &quot;In memory of Edward Ed and Molly died Thursday, May 2nd, 1974 in a fatal car accident. They were leaving a party to celebrate Spring. Jack Walten couldn't take because of work. A friend of Mr. Walten On the way back home, Jack's friend was driving thus crashing his car near the road next to St. Juana's forest. Instantly, both Edward and You will be remembered, our little angels. Our little red children.&quot; (cassette clacks) (VHS machine whines) (TV bleeps) (ethereal electronic music) Now, you might be wondering where this hidden tape came from, and conveniently, the answer's simple. It was left in the Walten Files playlist on Martin Walls' channel, The premise of this one of former events with the first segment taking In this one, we can hear Felix briefly and enthusiastically and how he has a positive Following this, we get one more from 1972, explaining how his company to continue on with the and after this one, we can from May 2nd of 1974, the same in that fatal car accident. Within this one, Felix contemplating on what to do. (melancholy chime music) (Felix coughs) - [Felix] Alright, it's... Yeah. Messed up. (chuckles) It's been so long since Last time I used this, I was I messed up. I have a problem. And... And this has been a problem for so long that I can't even remember. Those times I got drunk, I don't remember most of it. (coughs) (muffled chatter) - [Nexpo] And that, my friends, encompasses the entirely Dark. Complex. Disturbing. (ominous music) So, in review. This entire series appears to revolve around Jack's eldest She's the core. The one that can maintain that Felix Kranken's established, or to burn it all down, if she so chooses. She was born into a family of three, with her mother being Rosemary, and her father being the elusive Jack. A few years later, two more would be born into their family. However, due to events that they would never, ever, Felix was a family friend. Someone that the Walten family Yet, ironically, is and the one that ended On May 2nd of 1972, after being asked to do a Felix had become heavily As we know by now, due the three become involved that ended up killing Edd and Molly. Beaten up and unable to bear Felix decides to bury them in a forest, the St. Juana's Forest, in hopes of hiding his mistakes entirely. As we know, though, the children wouldn't since a few moments later, into that Rocket doll, as their medium to get their One month and nine days Jack Walten goes missing. We can observe his missing flyer littered throughout every episode. However, at this point, we're unsure of what We have our sneaking suspicion that he could be stuffed but as of right now, Another month passes and over her missing husband and She was likely desperate. Weak and open to anything, any lead that she could get She hears a voice coming from &quot;I know where he is, Rosie.&quot; A voice that we now know of her eldest daughter Sophie. She heads back there, hoping to ease her mind, yet is She becomes dismembered, as some unknown figure It appeared, at least to this silhouette, that Bon's actions were going and everything was falling But that's not to say that these since Bon's builder, Susan Woodings, had realized irregularities It's clear to us that he wasn't programmed to behave this way and likely was altered in some form or fashion. Whether that was by Felix or someone else is to be determined, a notable change before And so, Susan Woodings is killed She knew too much and was silenced before she could ever Just two weeks after her Five days before that of Rosemary Walten. We're unsure of the exact However, considering the list of names that Ashley discovered, it's safe to assume that For now, his relation However, I'm betting that as that of Susan Woodings. Either a builder or a Perhaps we'll find out as the series progresses, but right now, that's what we can roll with. July 20th. Bon's Burgers closes after that they heard around 2 AM. Given the fact that Rosemary it's safe to assume that these It seems to me that, due to the attention that Felix Kranken decided to pull storing every animatronic in the St. Juana's Forest. He likely placed it there two children died and were buried. Either, he built the where he buried them, or placed it nearby so he could check up on it These are, of course, just theories. However, I think it makes a bit of sense. Anyway, it seems that Felix, had always planned to moving forward with the past quite literally buried behind him. Most likely, the only reason and locked it up was to lay low for a bit. To let it all pass. And when people moved on? To bring it right back. Four years later and the Relocate Project is finally in full-swing. Facility Caretakers are tasked with the most dangerous Reprogramming the robots themselves. Considering the lack of knowledge that came with Brian and that this Facility Caretaker They likely received no tours, and no heads-up on what their supplies Personally, I think that the was to simply watch Watch the Company Introductory Tape to learn about Bon's Burgers. Watch the numerous archives to become acquainted with our new mission, and listen to Sha as she gives Because... You know, there's no way are risking their lives for this. That's what the Facility And so, after all of we're left with one. Sophie Walten. Someone that we know was to forget that her And this is where our mystery continues. To me, I really believe in suppressing her memories. He just couldn't stomach it. He couldn't kill her. Why? Well, at this point, we're unsure, but it's safe to say that after the fact, yet didn't. And so, with Sophie, after the rapid succession she likely didn't know where to turn. She was lost, and was plummeting into due to the onslaught of Felix noticed this, and to shut her up, he likely decided to since he's &quot;Uncle Felix&quot;, remember? He gives her a job at Bon's pushes her to obtain a prescription that he likely claimed would &quot;help&quot;, made her watch these that were littered with - [Man] Safety in pills, Sophie. Safety in pills, Sophie. - [Nexpo] And convinced it would all go away. And it did. It did all go away. To me, that list of names now seems like it was some sort of a hit list. Just one piece in a breadcrumb trail that Felix was trying to bury. He wanted to move on from this entirely. He continued with the years into the future, touting himself as the only quite literally cut any out of ever existing. The thing is, though, is that whoever created They want Sophie to remember, at least as of October 16th of 1982, it leaves us to wonder to meet her demise at the reprogrammed animatronics. Just like that ominous Sophie is left as the sole survivor, and sort of a key herself, that can open and expose into Felix Kranken's secrets. Doing this would allow her to finally expose his wrongdoings, accountability for everything That is, of course, unless he gets to her first. (merry jazz music) Loss. Betrayal. Suppression. Curiosity. And death. These are the major cornerstones something that I've become in recent months. It's been quite a while this well-constructed, to see how each lingering Like, how did Bon become Who's putting Jack's What actually was the fate Where the hell does Anthony And will Felix Kranken ever of nearly the entire Walten family? As it stands, and considering that there it looks like only time will tell. When these videos do come out, though? You can bet your ass that I'll be dropping And when the time is right? You know that I'll be back, and I'll be ready, for part two. While life soon will fade I'll meet you at the masquerade While our hearts are swinging Lady dressed in jade Hold me tight at the masquerade If the music halts here Then my heart will waltz here right on 12 o'clock is chiming On the clock up above Now if you'll unmask your heart I'll love you Love you Midnight, shadows fade No one's left at the masquerade Everything is through, dear But my love for you, dear, lives on (suspenseful music)