I'm shopping at Abercrombie for Mildly triggering because this was like But I could never afford it Now that I'm here, I'm noticing One is that which was definitely not the case The other thing that I'm noticing is that everything is just a little bit shittier Seeing a lot of like that's just made out of 100% synthetic Clothing just doesn't feel like this high quality Abercrombie still does I actually I really like this dress And I'm glad they've decided to start But seeing so much cheap wonder, did clothing used to be better Not just at Abercrombie, So I scoured eBay, Depop and Poshmark for clothes from trusted brands Then I went to those same stores Abercrombie was like legendary To compare the old and new, I got help from Amanda McCarty. I worked as a buyer in the fashion In the span of my career, I saw how what we sell people changed. The two major changes, I would say It's not you. It's And two, the longevity of these clothes, when you put them It's just not a good deal. It's not just in my head. It has gotten harder even at brands you used to like. If you're wondering why, keep watching, I want you to think about how many new pieces of clothing If you're anything like in 1980 that number was 12. But wait, it gets crazier. In the '80s, Americans spent about 7% Today, it's just 3%. We spend half as much, even though This Abercrombie ad from the '80s The high quality wool They even tell you exactly And notice how they say Because in the '80s a couple of times a year. Usually a spring summer collection And designers would start working in advance because clothing production They had to think of hundreds of unique or so best ones, send the designs to the factory, for months to create a prototype, the right embellishments, and figure After all that, they place a massive order with the factory It was kind of like a game of chance. You'd place two huge bets per year, you'd be stuck you'd have to sell or discount That risk is why so much care and thoughtfulness and why you could expect quality Even at discount stores like Sears or J.C. Penney. Just look at the way J.C. Penney advertised this suit Two piece suits classically designed They're not selling you on the price or the trendiness, Even one of the cheaper suits on which is probably why this $160 suit would cost $600 today. If you go to J.C. Penney now, you can easily So in the '80s and '90s, but they'd be well-made pieces And keeping up with all the trends? Well, that was something Pull the latest Brioni's Yes, ma'am. What are Brioni's? Then came a little store called Zara The New York Times article &quot;The latest trend is what we're after,&quot; A Zara executive told The Times. &quot;It takes 15 days between a new idea Remember that took most stores How did Zara do it in 15 days? By streamlining with something called griege goods rather than manufacturing overseas. Zara built their own all connected to headquarters There, robots working around the clock unfinished, uncovered pieces Once the design is created, to their network of small shops transformed Instead of huge orders, Zara makes The retail stores about what's selling and what's not, on whatever's It massively reduced the risk Instead of losing money on clearance sales unsold goods, The designers don't have to predict They can just respond to fashion trends as they emerge, though For example, here's a look from a collection This skirt would have retailed And here's a very similar looking skirt selling on Zara's website for just $80. According to the Wayback Machine, by August, which would have been landed in boutiques. These runway knockoffs stores were wildly popular. By August 2008, Zara's became the world's This is also when you had the rise giants of the new millennium, which pioneered a new way They partner with luxury designers at affordable prices, &quot;Karl is it true?&quot; &quot;Of course, it's true.&quot; it seems sort of like a win for the 99%. Fast fashion was making it while they were still popular. That was a new thing. to buy low cost clothes quickly would shockingly But we'll come back to that. Bcause we can't give the minds and H&amp;M all the credit We also have to give some credit No, not because of his style. In 1994, President Clinton signed NAFTA, Trade Agreement, which made it cheaper And a few years later, Textile factories because now clothing retailers had access to the largest pool of cheap Luckily, there was a law from which limited how much clothing could import from other nations. Unfortunately, in 2005, because now there was nothing from producing everything in the countries the fewest labor laws We've arrived at the fashion landscape In the 2000s, you had four distinct buying options high fashion or luxury brands, department stores, mall brands But these days, pyramid has collapsed and everything's J.Crew, Anthropologie. Abercrombie These didn't used to be considered fast fashion, And that's because of two very big things that changed the experience The first is the 2008 financial crisis. Middle class consumers so they began drifting over all of the other non fast Forever 21 was opening store after store H&amp;M, the same thing. Zara is spreading into other cities. And so the conversation began, &quot;What if we continue that we always have? But we know that we're going to sell of that style on sale, So let's say this dress costs $40 to make and it retailed for $100 in 2007. In 2010, during the recession, tag at $100, but expect that most pieces So they'll only spend, let's say, $15 And how do you make clothes for cheap? Well, by making cheaper clothes, like polyester instead of selling pure You skimp on details like pockets, I could see all these things these men's jeans from Abercrombie, The vintage pair weighs They feel substantial, long lasting, They have a decent amount that was probably done by hand to sort of In the fast fashion era, a lot of this is skipped where it's just like, or do other things that are like actually, The new pair weighs less at 720 grams This is that fast fashion track of okay, it will fit more people theoretically But putting elastane in jeans shortens Those elastane fibers that are woven And the more you wash them, But you get into the cycle where to get them to go back to size The other main difference We have a legit luxurious zipper, They smoothly go up and down for granted until you get a bad zipper. The new pair, that sound, you can feel like this This is a difference of maybe $0.50, to get the pricing Another area that you can really see We compared an Anthropologie sweater to a vintage sweater made in the nineties. This sweater is Liz Claiborne, which is The vintage sweater is 100% wool. The one made today is 100% polyester. The vintage sweater has metal buttons. The other one has no buttons at all. The vintage sweater is a size medium. The one made today is one size. When I see &quot;one size&quot; in something like, afford to buy it in sizes Even with all these cost cutting measures, And that's around the time private saddling them with debt be made by finance bros, whose idea of fashion is that Patagonia vest over a gingham shirt. And on top of all that, there's still that The final death knell in quality clothing, Social media and fast Social media helped shorten our attention trends too, That makes fast who rely on a steady stream of new clothes This puts pressure on all of us before seen outfit every single day, Lizzie McGuire. I guess now it's time to talk about Zara's more chaotic little sister, the logical conclusion of fast fashion. Shein is a company that focuses on selling super low quality clothing. They can for mind blowingly cheap prices. Shein raked in close to $10 billion It's currently the biggest clothing retailer in the world, Shein is not just fast Zara can get products Shein can do it in three. Zara can release Shein will release that many in So how do they do it? Rather than functioning as a cohesive with its own factories like Zara, Shein selling clothes from thousands And it treats those factories The factories are hooked up to Shein's feedback about which items are selling The software then sends alerts to the factory owners It's Zara's And just like other billionaires, taxes. See, when you buy something from Shein, you directly from the factory in China. There's full of Shein dresses. And since packages valued at under $800 duty free Shein merchandise is pretty much That exemption, it's called de so you could buy a rug or a lamp and ship it back to yourself not for big clothing retailers. 50 years of fast fashion and ultra fast fashion has completely changed Instead of being something just another cheap and disposable fashion, clothing retailer is in a Everything is fast fashion now. And the thing is, all this overproduction, When private equity and fast maximize their profits, that hurts workers Now, mass on extremely exploitative labor But as the industry gets bigger, Like when a garment factory in 2013, killing over a thousand workers. But the fast fashion companies that produce clothes, So it's no surprise that nearly ten years a 2021 investigation by Public Eye, showed that factories with blocked emergency exits and people Slavery is still an issue, too. According to recent investigations, 20 and 30% of clothes contain cotton from Xinjiang, that rely on forced labor from weavers The prices that are the prices we're willing to pay where everybody involved is paid a living I mean, they're built off Now, I want you to once again think of all How many of them will you still be wearing The average American And that's nothing compared of unsold clothing and returns that No one actually knows but we do know that you can see This mountain of discarded clothes grows by 39,000 tons per year. The polyester will take centuries to decompose. None of this bad PR is slowing down Shein is on the verge of an IPO Exchange with a $64 billion valuation. That kind of stuff makes the fast But there are people fighting back. First, we talked about that allowed A bipartisan group of lawmakers Meanwhile, New York lawmakers have introduced legislation legally binding environmental And dozens of brands from Xinjiang, including H&amp;M, Nike, But there's still a lot to be done, and the industry is going to fight Remember The reason is because they didn't want to comply regulations that would force them in their supply chain. They're lawyering up Fast fashion is the story of unchecked greed in a bargain for lower prices for. well, you. Though, as we've shown, that We need lawmakers to continue because we all deserve clothes exploiting workers and destroying the