Seventh Day Adventism, is this a cult or a true a moment. You're going to hear about their they believe. Some of the beliefs that are very beliefs as well as some beliefs that are very for the doctrine that is in their name, keeping health conscious and frequently vegetarian. Some writings, the SDA which is short for Seventh Scripture. However, the real distinctive doctrine all other beliefs is called the investigative doctrine but first let's learn some statistics and 95,297 churches with almost 22 million across 212 countries. Now the SDA church secondary and university levels. 229 hospitals, people that are associated with SDA church include player Magic Johnson, politician Ben Carlson and before he converted to Islam. Now the Seventh Day Awakening 1795 to 1835. It was a period of intense a Baptist preacher William Miller studied Bible would return in 1844. I'm not sure if he read day but he made a prediction that in 1844, Jesus message in 1831, drawing between 50,000 to 100,000 reaching up to a million people. Now of course, on the great disappointment. That is the terminology Miller's followers. The next day after this great had a vision of Jesus entering the heavenly leading to the belief that the date was correct quote from Midnight Cry that explains Hiram's while passing through a large field I was stopped to my view, and I saw distinctly and clearly that Holy of the heavenly sanctuary to come to this at the end of the 2300 days, He for the first of that sanctuary; and that He had a work to the earth. Now this Hiram Edson developed the became the key belief of the SDA church. Another over 2,000 visions starting at the age of 17, After the great disappointment, she promoted wrote extensively producing over 100,000 pages of that fruits, grains, vegetables and dairy as the SDA history. In 1844 was the great disappointment. a sketch of the Christian experience and views church was founded in Battle Creek, Michigan with of 75,000 people. In 1940 SDA membership exceeds million and as of 2022 the membership is about 22 doctrine and SDA doctrine are the same. The Although Ellen White had some issues in this believing in the Father, Son and the Holy is scripture. That is the same as Evangelical writing so they're not really Sola scriptura even website. The third doctrine that we agree with is fully God and fully man that He was born of a the sins of humanity and was raised from the dead. that Jesus is coming back to earth. The Savior's worldwide. When He returns, the righteous the righteous living will be glorified and taken in line with the Evangelical Christianity. but the basis on which we agree is very similar to but here God Himself will dwell with His people basically same doctrine as evangelicals. The sixth SDA churches practice both ordinances which are the rest of this video I'm going to focus on the Christianity. The first one is the prophetic that the scripture testify that one of the gifts is an identifying mark of the remnant church ministry of Ellen G White. Her writings speak with instruction and correction to the church. the standard by which all teaching and experience SDA puts this Ellen White's writings on the par especially Pentecostal Charismatic churches reject Bible. The second doctrine and that is keeping believes that the basis of God's covenant with by the Holy Spirit to reveal sin and the need for it results in obedience to the ten commandments. Christians fulfill the law through Christ living point to the fact that Jesus rose on Sunday that early Christians met on Sundays for worship We believe that Paul taught against observing chapter 2:16 and 17. Now Seventh Day Adventist was mandated by the fourth commandment and was Now they argue that Constantine changed the day of note that Paul opposed Judaizers who insisted on book of Galatians against such practices. In fact, circumcision and Sabbath keeping was a return to Read Galatians chapter 5:1-4. Early Christians not observe the Sabbath as Jews did, supporting disagreement, cessation of existence at physical is death but God who alone is immortal will grant death is an unconscious state for all the resurrected righteous and the living righteous The second resurrection, the resurrection of the Now this is not a Christian doctrine because Paul present with the Lord 2 Corinthians 5:8. Paul did unconscious sleep, we go straight to be there is disagreement is no earthly millennium. the millennium is 1,000 year reign of Christ the second resurrections. During this time, will be utterly desolate without living and his angels. At its close, Christ with from heaven on earth. The unrighteous dead his angels will surround the city but fire from the universe will be freed from sin and sinners the millennial reign of Jesus will be physical on where there is sharp disagreement and this is judgment. As I mentioned earlier where that was Jesus was supposed to come back which he should first place because the Bible is very clear. We signs but we don't know exact date. So anyway you know they had a vision that Jesus is pretty day. It's a key SDA believe in investigative be judged based on their obedience to God's judgment which begun in 1844 evaluates the lives saints and continuing until the present. SDA's individuals are not fully saved. So this is what When sin has been repented of, confessed and sinner's name but I want you to listen to this investigative judgment. She also emphasized that stating that those who accept the Savior, however to say or to feel that they are saved as long he cannot save his soul. He should never dare to are off here. This whole investigative judgment is investigative judgment? Well, the Bible says that 2 Timothy 2:19. Our sins are blotted out when we confessing, fellowship with Him. Acts 3:19, the cross. John 19:30, Hebrews 10:12-14, Romans not understand salvation. It is true that we we're also saved in the present. Jesus saved us We will on the day gain our new heavenly bodies the final salvation however you can know right now faith. Ephesians 2:8-10 say, For by the grace you investigation to be finished. No by the grace, you and that is not of yourselves. It is the gift of are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus for should walk in them. Notice it says, you have but what about judgment? Well, the Bible does talk Matthew 12 says that we will be judged for every it says, we will not come into judgment for our he who hears My word and believes Him who sent Me but has passed out of death into life. If we walk light, the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all judgment? Not for our past sins but we will judgment seat of Christ where our ministry will be relationships will be judged. Ephesians 6:9 and judged. Revelation chapters 2 and chapters 3. But they determine our reward. Should Christians feel We must know that the gospel assures us of we are living in line with the gospel. We can know with God. We never need to live in uncertainty Day Adventist church doctrines we agree with and Seventh Day Adventists as a non-Christian cult to 1950, many evangelicals believed that the cult like Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons but apologist swhich happened in 1950s, this led a how they view Seventh Day Adventists to view them doctrine. A person can be a Seventh Day Adventist time. There is enough potential risk to warn us I would strongly encourage believers not to Because they are embracing the same as those very strong language and he said that if they want the way and just cut off their organs completely. gentile believers you know we are saved by grace. when we are saved, we're not saved so we can keep commandments and the words of Jesus Christ. Thank this to be encouraging, enlightening, instructing Adventist, I love you, appreciate you watching. that I mentioned that were not right? If you are thoughts in the comments below. Maybe you used hear your experience as well. Don't forget to hit