The pure handmade soybean oil dumplings are on sale. Newly arrived Gannan navel oranges are two yuan per bunch of tomatoes. They are really popular. How much is 8 yuan each ? Hello everyone, dear friends, I am your good friend, the Tiger Three Brothers. Today we came to Beijing, the capital of China. Let's hold a big market in the suburbs of Beijing to see what's different about Beijing's rural markets. This market is called Dahanji Daji. It's located at the intersection of Fangyi Road and Dahanji Road in Fangshan District . Every Saturday and Sunday are market days. It is the largest market in the southwestern suburbs of Beijing. Every weekend, it is crowded with people. Various street snacks, agricultural and sideline products, and daily necessities are very rich , especially all kinds of special delicacies and snacks. In addition, the transportation here is convenient and there are many bus routes , so this market The city is very popular. Brother, can I take a picture of you making sesame cakes ? Can I bother you ? You can always see something new at rural fairs. This old craft of hanging stove sesame cakes is something we usually see in film and television works , but today we are lucky enough. I came across the hanging stove biscuits from this market, which seemed to be particularly rare. The unique thing is that the biscuits are made in a suspended stove. The main ingredients are wheat flour and white sesame seeds. In some places, beef fillings or donkey meat fillings are added to make them. The flour cake is stuck on the top of the hanging stove. The fuel is mainly fruit charcoal. This method makes the biscuits crispy on the outside, tender on the inside, crispy and delicious . The ingenious combination of flour and sesame produces a unique delicacy in the world. It can be said that this hanging stove biscuit is delicious. There are many different opinions among the people about which place it is a special snack. Some say it is from Heze, Shandong, some say it originated from Shanxian County, and some say that Diaolu Shaobing is a snack from Baoding, Hebei. It is said that Cixi Lafayette passed by Baoding and tasted the Diaolu biscuits here. After making the oven-roasted biscuits, he praised them so much that he summoned the master who made the oven-roasted pancakes here to the Forbidden City to make pasta for the royal family. From then on, the oven-roasted pancakes appeared in the alleys of Beijing. I don't know if these claims are reliable , but this ancient tradition After hundreds of years of inheritance, the craftsmanship is still authentic today in this free market, giving every market goer the opportunity to taste this kind of delicacy, which adds some beauty to our lives. It seems too traditional , but it is How to sell sesame pancakes that are so kind ? It costs 10 yuan for 3 pieces. 10 yuan for 3 pieces. There are also delicious cherries. How much does cherries cost ? This is 25. This is 35. This video was shot on the eve of the Spring Festival at this time every year. There will be a large amount of cherries and strawberries on the market. The cherries are priced at 20 yuan, 25 yuan and 35 yuan respectively according to the grade. This store only sells strawberries for 8 yuan per pound. This is the cheapest strawberry I have encountered before the Spring Festival. I made handmade soybean oil dumplings and multi-grain dumplings. The boss's dumplings cost 13 yuan per kilogram. WeChat payment is 13 yuan. Okay. Thank you. Northeast specialty multi-grain dumplings. This is a multi-grain pancake from the Northeast. This is a three-in-one pancake. It is a steaming pancake made from a mixture of corn flour, soybean flour and wheat flour. It exudes a charming fragrance. WeChat collection. The vast and fertile black land in the Northeast is China's main grain-producing area. Various crops and their food are produced there . In addition to staple foods such as wheat and rice, corn, millet, yellow rice, sorghum, soybeans, potatoes and other crops are also abundant in Northeast China . Therefore, many of the various miscellaneous grain snacks in Northeastern cuisine seem to be rough and bold. What the store is currently making is golden tortillas. The method is to stir the fruit corn into a paste , then add peanut oil and bake it in a large flat-bottomed frying pan. This seemingly simple and traditional method can maintain the original fragrance of the corn to the greatest extent , and the baked dough will appear. The natural golden color presents an unmodified and authentic delicacy to everyone. There is also an endless stream of customers who come to buy. WeChat payment 12 yuan WeChat payment 21.5 yuan WeChat payment 1 yuan How much does it cost? Come here It's yours. I love this bustling market . Every time I walk into the market, I'm always full of energy. I 'm always curious about all the beautiful things. I'm afraid of missing every wonderful moment. I always think about it wherever the camera goes . Record these vivid details to express my deep respect for every hard-working stall owner. Because of their hard work, our rich and diverse life is possible. The freshly made and sold millet cakes are very attractive. The special craft requirements of millet cakes This makes the elder brother move very quickly for fear of missing the best heat and affecting the taste. It is oil-free, sugar-free, and has no additives. Millet cake is a traditional northern snack that first appeared in Shanxi and northern Shaanxi because it is rich in millet . The way to eat millet is not just to make porridge and drink it through hard work . People in the long-term labor have invented the sweet delicacy millet cake. How much does it cost per pound? 25 It is also said that millet cake is a snack from Bashu, Sichuan and Chongqing. No matter where it comes from, the method of millet cake is relatively similar. Its uses The main ingredients are millet, peanuts , melon seeds, walnut kernels, etc., which are stir-fried in soybean oil or peanut oil and supplemented with white sugar. In some places, raisins and other ingredients are added to give the millet cake a richer taste. After frying, it is compressed. Shaping is also very critical, which is directly related to the taste of millet crisps. Therefore, the stall owner operates very carefully and does not miss any step. There are also requirements for compression and shaping time. Generally, the mold needs to be opened in about 2 minutes . Since modern people have higher and higher requirements for food, according to The stall owner said that the millet crisps he makes are sugar-free and additive-free, fried and made with the best honey. The millet crisps made in this way are delicious and healthy, sugar-free and additive-free. They are fried and made right now. Here comes the last pot of freshly baked millet. The crispy aroma attracts many customers and sells for 25 yuan per pound. This video was filmed on the eve of the Spring Festival . At this time, the flavor of the new year is getting stronger and stronger. There are also many such bright red lanterns and couplets with the word &quot;Fu&quot; for sale in the market. Lucky stars shine brightly and have a happy new year. The family is prosperous, the people are prosperous, the career is prosperous, and good luck comes in a prosperous year. With the spring, the house is full of wealth and blessings. These pairs are the Chinese people's best wishes for the Spring Festival in the Year of the Dragon. I wish my loved ones safety and health, and wish my friends all the best . Special offer. The newly arrived Gannan navel oranges are delicious and not irritating. Ah, 20 yuan for a bag here, 25 yuan for a bag here, 25 for a bag of 10 kilograms, 20 yuan for a bag of 8 kilograms, Hainan Qianxi, 10 yuan for 8 kilograms of Shandong winter dates, 10 yuan for a bag of fruits and vegetables at the market. There are many Comparatively speaking, the prices here are generally 1 to 2 yuan cheaper than in the main city of Beijing. Beans are 10 yuan and a bag of white radish is 5 yuan. A pile of celery is 5 yuan a bundle. When I walk past these vegetable stalls, I can smell the salty aroma of beef soup. When we came over, we followed the smell and took a look. There were quite a lot of people eating ramen at this open-air stall. I think this restaurant must taste good. The stall owner from Henan makes and sells ramen on site. It is now the most popular among Chinese people. One of the noodle dishes , due to its contagious production process and smooth texture, this noodle dish has become popular all over the country and can even be seen in Chinese ramen all over the world . It is said that Mazilu beef noodles from Lanzhou, China are sold in Tokyo, Japan. Of course, in mainland China, although ramen originates from Lanzhou, the cooking method is not limited to Lanzhou. Different elements are added according to local eating habits, which makes the taste of ramen richer. Most ramen is paired with beef soup and topped with garlic sprouts and coriander. A bowl of ramen like this at Titian costs 11 yuan , and there are small portions for 10 yuan. Don't look at it, this is an open-air ramen stall. The brother has been selling ramen for 10 years. He is very confident in his delicious food. We want it too. A bowl of this ramen. This is a small bowl. It costs 10 yuan. It adds an egg and a tofu skin. The total price is 12.5 yuan. Brother, is this a cherry? How much does a pound of cherries cost ? 20 a pound and 35 taels. 20 pounds per pound , 35 pounds, 35 pounds, ah, 35 pounds. Many people came to inquire about the price of cherries. Many stall owners took the trouble to reply to each customer. The cherries are in good quality. The price of 20 pounds per pound is relatively cheap, after all, here. It's a sweet thing to be able to eat such fresh cherries in the cold north. The navel oranges are also in good condition. I can buy 3 pounds of them for 10 yuan and they are not bad. If there are bad ones, I pick them one by one. 20 per pound 35 Two pounds, it's cheap, forty yuan, okay? Beijing Braised Stew costs 20 yuan. A bowl of old Beijing Braised Stew has also been moved to the food factory. The braised stew is full of flavor. Friends from Beijing and surrounding areas should be very familiar with Braised Stew. It is a traditional tradition in Beijing. The Han delicacy first came from the &quot;Su Zao Rou&quot; in the palace during the Qianlong period of the Qing Dynasty. In the Guangxu period, the &quot;Su Zao Rou&quot; in the palace began to appear among the people. However, because &quot;Su Zao Rou&quot; used high-quality pork belly, it was expensive and later became popular among private chefs. I tried to use pig offal, pig head, pork intestine, etc. instead of pork belly. Unexpectedly, the &quot;Su Zao Pork&quot; made in this way became very popular among people. In this way, Su Zao Pork slowly became braised pork. After two to three hundred years of evolution, folk masters Braised tofu and flour pancakes were added to it, and over time it became today's braised pork belly . A bowl of braised pork belly sold for 20 yuan is relatively affordable. A well-known braised pork belly dish in the main urban area of Beijing now sells for at least 50 yuan. Please add one more sesame seed cake to a bowl. Brother , can I take a picture of this? Can you take a picture of freshly ground sesame paste ? Freshly ground pure sesame paste. Brother, how much is this jar? 18 dollars per jar. 18 yuan. Pick it up and show it to your friends. They sell mutton for 30 yuan per pound of haggis and 10 yuan per pound of sugar-roasted chestnuts. The chestnuts are fried and sold right now. They are so sweet and so sweet . The scene of frying chestnuts in a big pot is quite spectacular. There are two varieties , opened and closed. They are sold separately. Are chestnuts priced at 18 yuan and 15 yuan per pound, and 26 yuan per pound ? The open ones are 18 yuan per pound, and the non-open ones are 15 yuan. I want the open ones to be 26 yuan . Various chopping boards are the best companions in the kitchen , and there is also this traditional washboard. This kind of rare thing can only be seen in this rural market. Sugar orange costs 10 yuan, 3 pounds of spicy eggs. Spicy eggs cost 5 yuan for three. Take it. Brother, sell it by one. Sell it by one. Yes, it costs 10 yuan for 6 pieces. Spicy eggs are also a common snack in street markets all over the country. Some even have their own brands. So what kind of eggs are eggs? Simply put, they are fertilized eggs that have been incubated but no chicks have hatched. Later, people used these half eggs. Embryonic eggs are made into delicacies. I found that they not only taste good but are also rich in nutrients. This is the traditional raw egg delicacy's ingredients and methods. It's sometimes unbelievable that there are so many people in Shandong crispy multi-grain pancakes. Sister, how much do pancakes cost ten yuan each? This pancake is in this market. It is very popular and there are many people waiting in line. Modern people are most willing to spend time on delicious food. Which restaurant has more diners ? It must be delicious. This multi-grain pancake seems to be crude in cooking , but the ingredients are quite sufficient. It takes about 2 minutes to make a pancake and sell each one. 10 yuan is really a good business! Shandong multigrain pancakes are now the most common snack in the country. They can be found in almost every market. They use whole grains as raw materials, supplemented with eggs and fried fruits, served with lettuce, green onions and sauces. It tastes so good. 3 eggs. You want 3 eggs? Whole grains strengthen the spleen, nourish the stomach and promote digestion. They are rich in protein, starch and crude fiber. The recipe seems simple but is actually healthy and delicious. It costs 10 yuan for 3 jins . 3 jins are cheap and on sale . Home-dried sweet potatoes are sold in original flavor per jin. 15 yuan looks very attractive from the appearance. This is the persimmon produced in the mountains of Fangshan, Beijing. 7.5 yuan per kilogram. Brother, how much is the persimmon per kilogram? 15. Two kilograms. 15 yuan. Two kilograms. Chili peppers , screws , pepper peas , ten yuan a bag. The bag costs five yuan and there are a lot of people. Apart from the pancake shop just now, this one has the most skewers in this market. This shop called Brother Liang's skewers mainly sells grilled mutton skewers and grilled sausages and grilled gluten. The barbecued meats are small skewers on bamboo skewers . The skewers sell for 2 yuan. To be honest, these skewers are quite big. The price of 2 yuan is really cheap. In other places , kebabs of this size cost at least 3-5 yuan. The meat tendons are the signature . So many people are waiting for the taste. Isn't it delicious? Just looking at the dining environment in this small forest is very attractive. The skewers in the open-air venue make people feel free. Are you and the skewers a family? Is this mutton soup from the same family? Haggis soup, bean curd soup , this soup is bean curd soup, right? It's bean curd soup. How much does this bowl cost? 5 yuan, 5 yuan for a bowl of bean curd soup. It 's such an honest business. We often eat fried dough sticks as a breakfast food , but such big fried dough sticks are really... It's rare. The merchant also has a healthy brand . The main product is alum-free and additive-free. Sister, how do we sell these fried dough sticks ? It costs 10 yuan per pound. How many are there in a pound? This one costs about ten yuan per pound . I want to cut a fried dough stick. The WeChat payment is 10 yuan. Each one is made quite evenly, and the size is basically the same. First of all, the ingredients must be good, and secondly, the production process and craftsmanship are the most important. It may seem like an ordinary fried dough stick , but the store's cooking is not ambiguous at all. Every step is meticulous. Take two fried dough sticks for ten yuan and one pound of fried dough sticks as the national breakfast of the Chinese. Whether it is eaten south of the Yangtze River or north of the Yellow River, the way of eating it is relatively close to everything. You dough sticks seem to be very reasonable in any combination. WeChat payment 4 yuan The large crispy fried dough sticks made by this restaurant are no longer limited to breakfast. They have become a popular street snack in this market. It is customary around Beijing to put vegetables in bags and sell them in bags . The price is not expensive at 5 yuan a piece. There are also bags of 7 jins for 10 yuan . This bag of potatoes has 7 jins and sells for 10 yuan. The charcoal roasted sweet potatoes are good. The charcoal roasted sweet potatoes are delicious . The charcoal roasted sweet potatoes are not delicious . Many people use coal. Roasted sweet potatoes. Coal-roasted sweet potatoes have the smell of coal. Tomatoes are really popular. 3.5 yuan per kilogram. WeChat payment is 7 yuan. Let's take a look at all kinds of jujubes . Wow, there are so many. This store sells all kinds of jujubes, all from Aksu and Hotan, Xinjiang. The price ranges from 8 yuan to 15 yuan per pound. Brother , donkey rolling in old Beijing, can I take a photo? It's okay. How much do you want per kilogram? How much per kilogram? A small box is fine. Do you want to cut it again? Do you want to cut it smaller? Yes, yes, the donkey rolling has appeared many times in our program. We are Everyone has shown how to make donkey rolling in the Northeast , and this one is a typical Beijing donkey rolling. This delicacy is mainly popular in the Northeast and Beijing, so this kind of delicacy is also very common in major markets in Beijing. Judging from the name, donkey rolling It 's very interesting. Its main ingredients are glutinous rice, pink bean paste , peanut kernels and soybean noodles. Since the last step in making it is to sprinkle with fried soybean powder, which is very similar to the bursts of loess thrown up by a donkey when it rolls around, so people like it vividly. Call it donkey rolling, donkey rolling, old price, old price, 15 per pound . I want the bean paste. Wait a minute. All are freshly made. Freshly made . Okay. How many pieces do you want? How much is this one? It's about 3.5 yuan per piece. It's freshly made. I guarantee it's delicious. Don't worry. Next time , come again. Next time, I won't necessarily come. Next time, maybe my wife comes and I don't have time. 10 yuan for 3 pairs, 30 yuan for 10 pairs. How much does a serving of stinky tofu cost? 15 yuan . Changsha stinky tofu smells stinky and tastes delicious. The food is so magical. Stinky tofu is not only delicious but also has high nutritional value. It is made from high-quality soybeans, which are screened, soaked, grinded, filtered, boiled and made into paste. Dozens of processes, including molding and fermentation, are required to complete the texture, which is soft and fragrant . It is rich in protein and amino acids. After being fried at high temperature, the outside is crispy but not mushy and the inside is tender but not greasy. The price of the five-spice tofu shreds in Gaobeidian is different. This one is more expensive than that one . How much is it? 11 yuan. This is 8 yuan. It's made from black beans. It's made with green onions and cilantro. It's delicious. The WeChat payment is 2.9 yuan. This shop sells glutinous rice noodles . The Tianjin Bank payment is 38 yuan . The glutinous rice noodles are from Shaanxi and The delicacies from Henan have now spread all over the country. They are still very popular in the markets in Beijing. The origin of the noodles is not simple. It is said that the word &quot;Jia Le &quot; in the noodles was personally given by the Emperor Kangxi of the Qing Dynasty during the Kangxi period. A dedicated person made a thorough statistics on the local snacks. When he saw the snack &quot;Jia Le &quot;, the emperor was very curious. The earliest noodles were called &quot;He Liu&quot;, so he ordered the chef to cook them in the same way. After eating, the emperor was greatly impressed by the flavor of the &quot;He Liu&quot; noodles. He appreciated it , but the emperor thought it was delicious. However, the word &quot;He Liu&quot; was not very auspicious, so he changed the word &quot;He Liu&quot; to &quot;Jia Le &quot;. From then on, the Jia Le noodles had the name given by the emperor and began to spread in the Yellow River Basin. It is widely spread that almost every food stall in this market is doing very well . Even the octopus balls were surrounded by people. It is a very good atmosphere to taste the food with many strange friends and watch the process of the food being baked . It virtually increases people's appetite and adds a kind of life experience. A portion of 6 octopus balls sells for 10 yuan. There are also marshmallows for 10 yuan. A bucket of strawberries costs 10 yuan. It is really cheaper. 10 yuan a bucket. A bucket weighs at least a pound. Strawberries in many places sell for 20 to 30 yuan per pound. Sichuan bacon and sausages also appear here at 20 yuan to 25 yuan per pound. The sign says no additives. All natural free-range pigs. Harbin-style old-fashioned bread . Mai Sugar- free Sugar-free Bread This store sells apples in bags for 2.5 yuan per kilogram . A 10-kilogram bag of durian is on sale at 1.5 yuan per kilogram. Try it. How much is it? 25 is cheaper. How do you sell this? Donkey meat is burned for 18 yuan. Donkey meat is burned for 18 yuan. It is also very common and has appeared many times in our program. This restaurant from Hejian, Hebei Province is the birthplace of donkey meat roasting. This seemingly ordinary delicacy is now blooming all over China. Its unique fragrance and the rich nutrition of donkey meat make this This kind of snack is liked by most Chinese people . Pay 8 yuan on WeChat. Want it spicy? Do you want the cake to be hot? There is no cold one. The price is 8 yuan, which is relatively close to the people. Today, many people went to take pictures of it. WeChat and Alipay are accepted. How much is the 16 special price? The new Luochuan Rock Sugar Heart Red Fuji Apple is so sweet. Crisp and sweet , the red Fuji apples from Luochuan, Shaanxi are really good. This obvious geographical label represents the good quality of the fruit. This big bag of 8 pounds sells for 20 yuan, which works out to less than 3 yuan per pound . It's really cheap. Chili pepper. There are also star anise. Chinese people pay attention to big fish and big meat during the New Year. Making meat and fish are inseparable from these seasonings and spices. This traditional small stone grinding on-site powdering process combines traditional and modern processing techniques to sublimate the mixed flavor of the seasoning. Bananas cost two yuan . Beijing is bordering the Northeast. Therefore, in the markets in Beijing, many Northeastern people do business. Various street foods from the Northeast have also been brought to Beijing. The living and eating habits of many people are also very similar to those of the Northeasterners . In this market, we saw many restaurants from the Northeast. The meat and egg burger in front of the food is very similar to the ones in Shenyang and Harbin. The super delicious meat and egg burger is coming to the big meat burger. How much does it cost? 6 yuan. A super delicious egg burger costs 6 yuan for 6 yuan. WeChat payment is 6 yuan. It will be very hot when it comes out of the pot. It is another authentic Beijing specialties cooked in old Beijing. This restaurant sells 25 yuan for a bowl. Do you want coriander for 25 yuan for a bowl ? This market starts at 8 o'clock in the morning and lasts until 5 in the afternoon. O'clock is now 12 o'clock at noon , which is when the market is most lively. Various transactions are also very frequent. Commodities and agricultural products from all over the country will be gathered here for people to choose. The market is in good order . This scene is a pineapple that we are very willing to see. Hello, how do you sell these pineapples? It 's 15 yuan for two. They're not small. The payment is 5 yuan. How do you sell these five -spice tofu shreds in Gaobeidian ? I really can't eat so much. How do I sell this? This one costs 11 yuan . Eight pieces of pork head meat and 18 pieces of soy sauce beef. For 40 yuan , there is also fat pig intestine 22 3 pounds. Just a few pounds per pound will be enough . It is also a different pancake shop. Compared with the previous one, the pancake skin of this restaurant is whiter. The wheat flour or rice flour should be used. Generally speaking, the pancakes are good. When baked into a pancake , it needs less moisture and is flexible and chewy. The shape is like cowhide. It can be thick or thin and easy to fold. Nowadays, pancakes have also evolved into vegetable pancakes, pancakes , fruits and other snacks . At the same time, in addition to the traditional whole grain pancakes, bean flour pancakes , sorghum flour pancakes and sweet potato flour pancakes are also popular nowadays. How much does one cost? 8 yuan . Tomatoes are sweet and sandy and sweet . 10 yuan. 3 jins of sugar oranges. 10 yuan. 3 jins. The sweet sugar oranges are cheap. 10 yuan. 3 jins. Various red grapes without seeds. The price of grapes and muscat grapes is basically 3-5 yuan per pound. They look very fresh. Most of these fruits are produced in the agricultural bases of Yanqing District or Tongzhou District in Beijing . Look, this is sorghum wine. This store specializes in sorghum wine and has 5 years of aging. There are small mud cellar wines, etc. The price basically ranges from 10 yuan to 50 yuan per pound. Iron plate tofu and Harbin red sausage are also relatively common in the market in Beijing. This store has two varieties selling old noodle steamed buns for 25 yuan and 35 yuan respectively. It's 10 yuan a bag. Can you put 7 pieces in it for me? These are millet flour and cornmeal pancakes. 12 yuan . This is so delicious. I came all the way here today. Can I have the freshly fried one? I want a few. Three sugar pancakes, 12 yuan. 6. They are not particularly sweet. They are freshly baked. Brother, how much does a portion of this steamer cake cost? 12 yuan per box. Yuan WeChat payment 16 Yuan WeChat payment 7 Yuan How much is this box? 10 Yuan Handsome Boy Is it frozen or fresh? How much is the fresh one ? 10 yuan. Old beef head, sesame sauce, garlic moss, 10 yuan. Three handfuls, 10 yuan. 3 handfuls of fresh durian . 13 yuan per pound. Over here, 18 yuan per pound. How to sell mackerel? 25 yuan . Come in here and watch the popcorn donkey rolling . It's about a pound and a half. It's about a donkey rolling. How can I sell it? 18. One pound can't fit in another box. Is this a hawthorn cake? Yes, hawthorn cake . Are you doing a live broadcast ? Make a short video. 29 yuan 429 Want spicy, right? 42 yuan 5 liang thin A width of spicy slightly spicy WeChat payment is 42.1 yuan. Free tasting. Try before you buy. Old Beijing Haw Cake is handmade and can be tasted for free. Try before you buy. Delicious and inexpensive. Popcorn marshmallows are on sale at special prices. Popcorn marshmallows and sweet potato vermicelli are ten . 10 yuan per bag , 10 yuan per bag, 10 yuan per bag, special price. Newly arrived rock candy orange.