Annc: This Viewfinder episode Health, where doctors, nurses, for advancing health. Learn more about their health.ucdavis.edu. Narrator: It's the fifth most and the second most common It's curable when caught early, Sometimes, it shows Dr. Kiuru: Most melanomas percentage can occur elsewhere. Narrator: The leading cause of exposed to, sometimes, Something that defined and our early years. Dr. Daud: Oftentimes, 30 years before you Narrator: While melanoma isn't cancer, it is the most deadly. Dr. Gaskill: Because of primary site and metastasize it is actually the most Narrator: Experts agree that are increasing. But so is the survivability, Dr. Algazi: There's a patients who will live a full cancers because of Narrator: We'll meet one man who adulthood, just as were becoming available. Mike Gaynes: If it had happened gone to stage four, I likely Narrator: And we'll explore the been diagnosed with Kelsey Cowin: When they &quot;Okay, what is my life Narrator: We'll also discover melanoma that's changing and increasing the Dr. Algazi: We can harness fight cancer and keep possibly indefinitely. This is More Than Skin Deep: &gt;&gt;: Hello. &gt;&gt;: How are you doing today? &gt;&gt;: Good. Everything going okay? Kelsey Cowin: I was melanoma in April of this year for it in- on Friday. Narrator: While most new in people over the age of 50, of a growing number of women are being diagnosed with What may surprise you even more- Kelsey: So, I was melanoma in, um, Narrator: Kelsey has been a whole life and has seen since age 14. Her grandfather had another form was later diagnosed She's among an estimated 10% of has genetic origins. So, she was taught to pay close an early age. In fact, she's the one who on her forehead. Kelsey: I was like, I need to go get And it turned out Narrator: The first time Kelsey it was handled the same way it remove the cancer and parts of the body. She was in Cal Poly San Luis Obispo at the healthy college life. She had that surgery and then her roommates to help her life feel normal again. Kelsey: So, they would and then I'd, like, put a little see it and just go to Narrator: Fortunately, There was no sign the Kelsey was able to bypass would have been the next step- a physically and emotionally She stayed at Cal Poly Ever since, Kelsey has had checks every three months, was aware enough to discover nearly a decade later. Kelsey: To have melanoma and then, to have it was even more shocking. So- Narrator: This time, as a lump on her neck. It had spread to her Dr. Gaskill: What I'm focused on Narrator: Kelsey is here at UC appointment before her surgery Kelsey: They are taking the gland that my, Dr. Gaskill: You can see this That's the area of disease the recurrence. Narrator: Kelsey's doctor is oncologist at UC Davis Health. Dr. Gaskill: So, Kelsey's Narrator: "Interesting" because for years before being Most melanoma re-occurrences initial discovery and if a for ten years, it's far less but not impossible. Also, now that didn't exist before. Dr. Gaskill: What's exciting offering her an immunotherapy available- just, the studies ago, when she had Narrator: But today, where Doctor Gaskill explains, &gt;&gt;: ... sore neck and cheek. Dr. Gaskill: Right now, node with evidence And that lymph node is right on to produce saliva Unfortunately, you know, the... the nerve that controls a lot of through the parotid gland. That's it. So, we're going surrounding parotid To treat this disease, first part of the parotid gland nodes in that side of the neck. Narrator: Because there are through the parotid gland, experts that include a radiation oncologist, Four days after this visit sees her again. This time, in the operating has assembled for a Dr. Gaskill: It's a, uh, uh, operating around a lot of and needing to preserve their of the lymphatics and lymph we leave no cancer behind. Narrator: Ten years ago, the lymph nodes would almost to be followed by chemotherapy, to attack the cancer. It's often incredibly Chemo was the standard Now, doctors turn to with stage three Immunotherapy works differently. It's designed to fire up to kill the cancer itself. Dr. Daud: In the last 10 years, there's just so much more system works. Narrator: Doctor Adil Daud is UC San Francisco and co-founder He helped develop some of the that are widely used today to immunogenic cancers. Some cancers, like melanoma, immunogenic, which means end of the immune system- the cancer cells. Dr. Daud: In many cases, recognizes cancers and Narrator: Immunotherapy just amplifying an immune reaction and changing outcomes Dr. Daud: If the melanoma you could be alive Narrator: Dr. Daud says work as well with melanoma. In 2000, if you were diagnosed doctors say you may have lived There were other treatments that but doctors found that after developed resistance to them. Today, with immunotherapy, five years or longer. Dr. Daud: I think, when it immunotherapy was the... was the with melanoma is when we started curves of patients Narrator: Immunotherapy has anyone diagnosed with It's proving to be much easier better for doctors who Dr. Daud: I remember the time at people straight in the eye they'll do this type of it's gonna work for you." Dr. Algazi: I'd say It's really exciting. I mean, if you imagine working you couldn't imagine something Like Kennedy said, &quot;We don't We do it because it's hard.&quot; And then, you see It's like, how exciting is that? Well, this is, in a sense, Narrator: Immunotherapy has groundbreaking that in 2018, the Nobel Prize for it. In Kelsey's case, immunotherapy beating this disease. Doctors often don't know of the patients who have found are still alive. Dr. Gaskill: The prognosis with node positive disease, five-year survival. But that being said, those are the early 2000s, and so, apply to our current patients. Narrator: Not everyone does Between 20 and 30% of to benefit at all. 30 to 40% have partial shrinks but doesn't For as many as 20%, and for 15 to 20% of stage four melanoma, by a full response. They go into remission 65-year-old Mike Gaynes He grew up in an era where item, tanning beds were still on of the medical community gave Mike Gaynes: It occurred because in the sunshine before they Narrator: Around the same time, oncology doctors who specialized entering a field where most of That was the case for UCSF doctor- Alain Algazi when he a decade ago. Dr. Algazi: I remember when we had a relatively small would die within a year. Narrator: Melanoma is often skin cancers because of the spreading throughout the in lymph nodes. For Mike Gaynes, it first a lump on the side of his neck three melanoma. Mike: It was not shocking It was shocking to find Narrator: Mike says it also which is uncommon. According to doctors, only 2 to start with unknown primaries. The cancer was removed, Mike: I had gotten used to came back, I was Narrator: Two years later, This time, in his belly, and A terrifying diagnosis that, might have been interpreted But there were new options weeks earlier. He was among the first immunotherapy drugs. Mike: "A chance to live longer"&quot; He told me straight-out Narrator: That was While it wasn't exactly a walk at the fact that he was still undergoing immunotherapy That's him, the goalkeeper. He says being able to do like community theater, disease, made him feel more than ever before. Mike: To bang into people trip over the ball and holler the right pass. Narrator: The day we interviewed He celebrates each and bench pressing his weight strong enough. Dr. Gaskill: I think the silver have better therapies, melanoma. So, overall, Kelsey: As disruptive as I'm on has been great. Narrator: For Kelsey Cowin, to continue working full-time and living much the She even got married this year, immunotherapy infusions that And Kelsey got some great The pathology report showed no had a full response Kelsey: Well, the option to to be able to use Just, my lifestyle, in general, since I have been diagnosed. Narrator: At this visit, college friend, Carrie, her first fight with melanoma. This time, she's walking with that's much more tolerable a decade ago. Kelsey: Not having to lose side effects from haven't been at play for me. Narrator: While immunotherapy patients like Kelsey, it has lives of doctors who have but in a different way- and now their patients to survive. Dr. Algazi: You see people who you would have People have a new lease on and celebrate birthdays, and all of those things. It was one of those things maybe a few years ago. And that's... that's about Narrator: While the treatment the danger will always exist. We can't very easily escape the which leads the nation cases each year. There are stern warnings now do to us, long term, and why ourselves from it. That goes for tanning beds, too, many states to prohibit teens creating damaging sunburns that Dr. Daud: My colleagues here at program, a lot of their effort legislature to... to at least to allow young people to use and stuff like that, creating DNA damage there. Narrator: California was the using tanning beds, in an cancer of all types. But doctors say they still see who can get skin cancer. Thinking that it can't happen to your family, or you live in a have the right skin type, Dr. Daud: That idea that is... is incorrect and... and of delayed diagnosis. Narrator: According to the melanoma doesn't discriminate. While the odds are greater for lifetime risk of getting For Hispanics, and one in 1,000 In short, anyone who is exposed often, those who spend the most likely to be aware Dr. Gaskill: Some of the risk childhood blistering sunburns. Narrator: As for patients like who are faced with a melanoma looking into why they Doctor Maija Kiuru, Dermatology and Pathology at of melanoma and genetics and about who melanoma affects, younger women, like Kelsey, sun and been smart Dr. Kiuru: There could be don't fully understand, but, uh, between men and women. And then, also, differences of men and women. Narrator: Among their recent also learned the BRCA2 gene- genes'- bears a melanoma learning what The good news- genetic testing might be at a higher risk. Dr. Kiuru: So, roughly 10% of in the family who has melanoma, those will actually be at a much determined in each of the family in some cases. Narrator: Doctor Kiuru says, connection, regardless of your exposure you've had, something the "A-B-C-D-E"s of skin cancer. Dr. Kiuru: So 'A' Narrator: Which means if you half, one side may not Dr. Kiuru: 'B' is for Narrator: It may have well-defined border. Dr. Kiuru: 'C' is for colors. Narrator: The spot may have or even areas with red or blue. Dr. Kiuru: 'D' is for Narrator: According to the melanomas are usually or about the size of a pencil but they can be smaller. Dr. Kiuru: 'E' is for evolution. So, any change over time want to know about. Narrator: All of the experts best way to protect yourself cancers is to be proactive. Dr. Gaskill: And so, wearing sunhats, not going to tanning beds, Narrator: And while California to long sleeves, these days, including clothing, &gt;&gt;: Let me see the back. Ok! I think our customers Narrator: Rhonda Sparks is protection apparel company out focused on selling peace of literally save your life. Rhonda Sparks: All of our and basically, what that means and UVB rays from So, you won't get Narrator: For Rhonda, It's a mission born out of she loves, and the desire kind of pain. Rhonda: UV Skinz started to melanoma. He was 32 years old and we of his passing. They were Narrator: After her husband UV Skinz in a barn on her to help fight back against Her husband's fight with cancer drugs were available. The options for melanoma and the outlook was grim. Fighting melanoma was truly a fought in her own way. Rhonda: We call our "sun protection soldiers." Every unit that leaves our and that mission is Narrator: Nordstrom was UV Skins, which has also like The View and &gt;&gt;: Yeah. We got some great, To begin, Evan is wearing a Narrator: And now, more than remarried, her business is more imagined, and most importantly, in knowing she's helping others. Rhonda: The lessons that loss of Darren have Your heart breaks into a million it literally comes back, of the compassion I have Narrator: It may be a similar feel as they treat patients with ways to make their Dr Algazi: When I'm seeing him just to live for I want him not to die You know? I want him Narrator: While doctors do their they have to rely on which includes not only but visiting the Dr Algazi: Keep close The best way to treat If you have something that's dermatologist take a look at it, Kelsey: The sooner you to be for you. The treatment is Narrator: Research shows that a comes with a more than 90% Those numbers decrease, the Dr. Algazi: Today, if you walk chances are better than even with widely Narrator: It's an exciting a future where melanoma may, inconvenience than Dr. Gaskill: It feels like ages of... of chemotherapy, patients specific therapies and we see great Dr. Algazi: I think we all possibility in terms of making more patients, that we could head and neck cancer, melanoma, treatable diseases where the widespread disease, doesn't die. Narrator: The hope that other someday also benefit resonates who twice survived melanoma modern medicine for helping him. Mike Gaynes: It's a perspective. From a human perspective, It's a world-changer. The color of the sky changes, where there might not Not just the hope of survival, a really good quality of life. Narrator: It's a battle that's More Than Skin Deep: Annc: This Viewfinder episode Health, where doctors, nurses, for advancing health. Learn more about their health.ucdavis.edu.