Here in the US we have a restaurant called Wienerschnitzel. Ironically they sell hot dogs and not as you might guess the Austrian national dish wiener schnitzel. So instead I'm going to make it myself using So thank you to Babbel for sponsoring this video as I make schnitzel of the wiener variety this time on Tasting History. So last October while I was in Vienna several viewers took me to dinner at Figlmuller, a restaurant founded in 1905 which is famous for but what exactly is traditional wiener schnitzel? Well, schnitzel which likely comes from the term schnitten meaning to cut is a thinly sliced piece of meat that has been breaded And there are different versions of it all over central Europe, and even here in the US I guess if you consider chicken fried steak a schnitzel which- which I think I do. But what makes a wiener schnitzel, literally Viennese schnitzel is that it is made using veal. And one of the earliest recipes that I could find came in an 1824 cookbook that translates to &quot;useful book for the kitchen when preparing meals&quot; by August Erdmann Lehmann. Now this recipe actually predates the term wiener schnitzel so it's simply called kalbsschnitzzel which means veal schnitzel. And it says &quot;Thin slices are cut from coarse raw meat, pounded well and seasoned with salt, sprinkle pepper, then add 1 teaspoon of fine herbs and parsley, lemon zest and warm butter, mix in 1 egg, turn the Schnitzel in it, breaded with breadcrumbs, fry in hot butter on both sides for 2 minutes in a pan, basted with lemon juice and served with a spicy sauce.&quot; So this recipe is similar to a modern day wiener schnitzel except usually the modern day version doesn't have the herbs and the butter, and the lemon zest with the egg wash. It's just dipped in egg. It also is missing a key ingredient, or a key step in its preparation, which is dredging it in flour. A modern-day schnitzel is always dredged in flour which helps the breading kind of lift away from the schnitzel later on, and you'll start to see that in recipes in the late 1800s and by the early 1900s all recipes have that but this one doesn't. The other difference is how this one is served, it says that it is served with lemon which is traditional but then it's also served with a spicy sauce and unfortunately the cookbook is not specific in I looked through it I couldn't find anything, it might be referring to something that at least used to be called zigeuner sauce which translates to gypsy sauce, and it is just a sauce of paprika and different peppers. But the recipe is not clear so I don't want to do that because that might not be right. Also wiener schnitzel today is not served that way, nor has it been for a very long time so I'm going to look to yet another old recipe from a cookbook called the 'Osterreichische Kuche&quot; or Austrian Cuisine published in 1900, and it says that when serving wiener schnitzel &quot;You put a lemon wedge with every schnitzel and some green parsley on the dish.&quot; Also a huge thank you to Charlotte Wittershagn she did this way back in the summer of 2021 and I am just getting to them now. I have quite the backlog but thank you Charlotte for sending me these. Also, this is kind of a change of gears but my mother is trying to plant us a trip to go see the Christmas markets in Germany and Austria, and she wanted me to ask if anyone in Germany or Austria, one, has any suggestions but more so if you have any people that you know who can help set up a trip like that. Let me know in the comments or email me, that would be awesome. Really, really looking forward to it with some help from today's sponsor Babbel. Babbel is one of the top language learning apps in the world and it really, really helped me get around Vienna when I was there last autumn so another year of practicing my German and I should be really set to go visiting 'Die Weihnachstmarkte', that is the Christmas markets. Babbel makes it so easy to keep up with your daily you can sustain it for an entire year because their lessons are like 15 minutes long so you can just sneak them in throughout the day. They also really help you keep on track with their games and their podcasts, and I love their podcasts because they help you get the language in your ear. And it's so important to to have that because even if you're not confident speaking the language just being able to understand it when you're traveling is a huge help, but with Babbel you will be confident speaking it as well. Especially since Babbel prepares you for &quot;Haben sie zimtschnecken?&quot; Do you have cinammon rolls? So to get started speaking a new language in as little as 3 weeks just click the link in the description or the QR code up in the corner and you'll get 60% off of your subscription with Babble's New Year's sale. Now for this recipe what you'll need is 2 to 3 veal cutlets. Now if you don't like veal or just don't want to use veal, those work as well. Technically they're not wiener schnitzel they're just other types of schnitzel, but nobody's going to care. A bit of salt and pepper for seasoning, 1 teaspoon of herbs and parsley finely minced, a 1/2 teaspoon of lemon zest, 1 tablespoon of melted butter, 1 egg and plenty of breadcrumbs crushed very fine. Then for frying she does say to use butter. Now clarified butter because if you just use regular butter for this the smoke point is so low that it will start smoking and burning before you're actually frying anything so you want clarified butter or you can use anything else that you- any other oil that you want but clarified butter that's going to be the best flavor I think. So first take the cutlets of meat and using a mallet or a meat tenderizer pound them out for a couple of minutes until they are And to avoid a mess it does help to wrap the meat in Then sprinkle each piece of meat with some salt and pepper for seasoning and rub it in, and then in a wide bowl gently beat the egg until it's just smooth, and then add the herbs and parsley, and the lemon zest and the melted butter and mix it all together. Then dip the cutlets into the egg, shaking off any excess. Then dredge them in the breadcrumbs pressing the Then in a large flat pan heat the clarified butter to about 350deg F, 180deg C, and set the meat in the pan letting it fry for about 1 to 2 minutes, making sure it's not sticking to the pan. You can actually rock the pan back and forth to make sure that the schnitzel remains floating in the fat. Now today one mark of a good schnitzel is that it is like this big around. You want it like overflowing the plate. The thing is I couldn't find a piece of veal nearly that fry a piece of meat that big I would just end up splattering so I'm using smaller pieces but if you can get a big piece use a big piece. Just be careful when you flip the schnitzel over to allow it to fry for another minute or two on the other side. Then remove it from the pan and let it drain on some paper towel while you finish up the rest of your pieces of meat, and I tell you the history of wiener schnitzel. So the origin of schnitzel is a point of contentious debate namely because it's filled with legend and guesswork. What is fairly sure is that it did not start out in either Vienna or any of the Germanic speaking world. Some have claimed that they had breaded and fried slices of meat in Constantinople in the 12th century, and others claim that it dates further back to ancient Rome, and still others say it was the Moors of Spain who first coated meat in bread and fried it. And to all of that I say poppycock. Poppycock I say, because the fact is all of these claims are always made without any evidence of any kind and it's more likely that people were putting bread stuff on meat and frying it long before anyone was writing any of this stuff down. But that doesn't mean that the myths that are often and frankly worth at least mentioning. One of my favorites is the fact that the schnitzel is golden brown comes from the practice of gilding food or covering it with gold that was popular in the Middle Ages. Now I have bedighted several Medieval dishes with gold leaf here on the channel as during the Middle Ages putting gold on your food was a wonderful way to show off your wealth. I mean Salt Bae's tomahawk steak that is covered He's just copying from the 13th and 14th century cooks of Europe, and charging way too much for it. Throughout Medieval Italy this was a very popular thing to do if you were stupidly wealthy, and in Venice it became so en vogue that even the nuns of Santa Maria Celeste were said to have put gold flecks into the Bussolai biscuits that they sold. These are a famous Venetian butter cookie that are today colored gold, not with actual gold but with far less expensive egg yolk but in the Middle Ages according to legend it was gold. Well in the 16th century the Council of Venice set limits on the amount of gold that could be used in the kitchens. So not being able to use gold to cover the food the cooks of 16th Century Venice looked to something else and that was breadcrumbs which they could fry to a golden brown which has to be one of the silliest theories I can think of because while breadcrumbs probably taste better than gold it doesn't have the same cache, the same bling as gold. It would be like writing Ferrari on the side of a Toyota. Everybody knows that it's not a Ferrari, you're not fooling anyone. So while the idea of Italian cooks ditching gold in favor of breadcrumbs is kind of far-fetched the Italians did have their own version of schnitzel. There is a dish from Milan known as 'Cotoletta alla Milanese' which is essentially a veal cutlet breaded and fried in clarified butter though the same exact dish has appeared in French cookbooks since 1735 so some claim that it was actually the French who brought the dish to Italy but it doesn't really matter where it started out, it's the Italian version that gave rise to perhaps the most popular myth about the advent of schnitzel. This legend says that Austrian field Marshal Josef Radetzky while he was commanding the Austrian forces in Lombardy-Venetia was introduced to this Italian veal dish. And he loved it so much that he decided to bring it back to the Viennese palace and introduce it to the Emperor who also loved it so much that he had it made all the That is definitely not true seeing as that would and we have recipes going back further than that but No unfortunately all of the fun stories are just that, they're stories. None of them have any basis in truth. It's more likely that wiener schnitzel and schnitzel in general was just perhaps at different times who breaded some meat and fried it. It's not that complicated. It's not only in Europe, it's all over the world different versions of this, so it's just cooks passing it around, that's how most dishes come to be. One thing that is clear is that the German and Austrian cookbooks of the 18th and 19th century do have many variations on this dish. Some aren't even fried, there are versions that are baked like one in the 1719 'Saltzburgisches Koch-Buch' by Conrad Hagger, and a recipe from 1740 has it being coated only in flour and not breadcrumbs, and then fried so that's like the opposite of what we're making today. And then there are versions that are made with veal, some are with pork, some are with chicken, others with beef that isn't veal, and then there are versions that are covered in sauces and some that are even covered in cheese, but none of them are exactly like the venish wiener schnitzel of today. In fact the term wiener schnitzel doesn't even begin to appear until the latter half of the 19th century. In 1893 a publication from Leipzig says that wiener schnitzel is a synonym for the more popular Kaiser schnitzel. And it was in the early 20th century that the Austrian to champion this term wiener schnitzel as being a veal cutlet that is turned into a schnitzel kind of as a way to distinguish its cuisine from other German cuisines of the time. It was also around this time that restaurants in Vienna began specializing in schnitzel. The food writer Franz Josef Beutel writing in 1901 said that no menu is complete without a wiener schnitzel, whether it's the restaurant of a roadside inn or that of one of Vienna's grandest hotels. And by 1913 in Vienna for wiener schnitzel it's clear that the sauces and cheese are eschewed and for a proper wiener schnitzel &quot;You put a lemon wedge with every schnitzel and some green parsley on the dish.&quot; And that's how I'm doing it today. It's so simple and yet adds a wonderful flavor and that is how it was served to Figlmuller last autumn and supposedly that's how they've been cooking it since they opened in 1905. And today the term wiener schnitzel is actually protected by the Austrian government and does say that it must be made out of veal. Granted if you want pork you can have schnitzel made of pork, and they will call it weiner schnitzel vom schwein or with pork. But technically it's supposed to be made with veal and I can't wait to try it. So once the schnitzel is drained serve it with a bit of lemon and parsley and here we are, schnitzel from 1824. So the first thing that I notice is that the breading is still adhered to the veal which you'd think was a good thing but actually that's not what you want in a modern day schnitzel. The bread is supposed to kind of puff but I think without the addition of that layer of flour that's so let's see how it tastes. It tastes just like I remember it. It has that wonderful crunch from the breading but then this really just rich flavor and partly it's the veal but partly I think it's the butter that it is fried in. If you're doing this with chicken or pork you're going to still get some of that really just unctuous butteriness that's absolutely fantastic. Now the other difference that I see in my schnitzel versus the modern day schnitzel is probably less due to the recipe and more due to my my cooking, and that is the golden brown. The ones that you get in Vienna are really light golden brown and perfectly uniform in color whereas mine is a little darker and a little bit more mottled but you know the flavor is there and that's what really counts. So as I finish my weiner schnitzel I am going to answer the question that I'm sure you've all been wondering and that is why is the US's largest hot dog chain Wienerschnitzel called Wienerschnitzel if they don't sell weiner schnitzel? Well it was founded by John Galardi who was an employee for Taco Bell and originally he had thought that he would name so while he was having dinner with Glenn Bell, the Glenn's wife suggested a name that she had seen in a cookbook Der Weinerschnitzel, and even though it had nothing to do with hot dogs it was memorable so they decided sure we'll go with that as the name. After a while they dropped the 'Der' and just kept the Wienerschnitzel obviously not pronouncing it wiener schnitzel as in German, but Wienerchnitzel as in and Wienerchnitzel. And until very recently they had never sold any wiener schnitzel, in fact they still haven't but they did have a mark marketing campaign back in I think 2017 where they did sell schnitzel. It was chicken schnitzel and it was in the form of a sandwich. That's as close as they've ever got so if you're going to go to a Wienerschnitzel just expect hot dogs and corn dogs which are fantastic but if you want weiner schnitzel you'll either have to head to Vienna, or make some at home like I did, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.