- Hey everyone, I'm and I'm so excited for Today we will be having because we are going to learn how to use our breath to be more calm and confident when we speak English. Many of you probably don't know that I'm also a yoga so I'm really interested in to find peace and calm inside Because even if you know you know how to create the if you're too afraid to speak in English, you won't so it's really important beyond our fears, we learn so that our brain can function, and so that we can actually when we need it in a conversation. So I think today's lesson is so important and I'm really excited about it. So today I'll be sharing that will help you to use your and move past your fear Okay, so the first thing So not many people know to find peace inside when or trying something new. Well, we're often told that that we should move and I agree with those things. I think we should do those things. But it's also important to realize that when we're afraid or our brain doesn't function So that means that parts of our brain responsible for higher learning So if you're trying to speak in English and parts of your brain are shutting down because you're nervous, you're not going to be able to speak as well as we both know that you can. So today we'll learn how to use our breath to calm ourselves down so that our brain is functioning optimally, so and create beautiful sentences in English. I think it's also, you've that, oh, when I have it's easier for me to speak in English or to speak in another language. If you think about that, is more relaxed, so it's easier for them to go with the flow. So I'm not suggesting that I think that that is a terrible idea. I think that will not make you a better English speaker at all. It will probably cause so I'm not saying to do that. But what I am saying is that the easier it will be to go with the flow. So the second thing that I want to share. And that is what not to do. So many people think that just that they will calm themselves. And this isn't necessarily true, because when you take the deep inhale, you're actually raising So what's more important is that you take a slow inhale and then slowly exhale. So we want to pay attention to the speed that we're breathing So yes, a deep inhale is a lot better than holding our breath, is taking a slow deep So you may be wondering what I'm going to show you that right now. So this is a technique to see We're going to take our and put them together, and and our fingers, and place So from here we're going that the breath moves into and our fingers move apart. As we exhale, (exhaling loudly) our fingers will touch again. So we're going to inhale really (inhaling loudly) fingers move apart, fingers move back together. So that's one way you can test That takes some practice, so if you're not doing it right away, that's okay. Just a little bit of to be able to take those Okay, so let's move on to the third thing that I want to share. So now I want to share two techniques that are incredible for and for allowing us to speak So this is what you can in English to calm yourself down. So the first technique is very simple. This is something I think So all we're going to do through the nose, (inhaling loudly) and then exhale out the than our inhale. (exhaling loudly) So the way that we can is to inhale through the (inhaling loudly) Exhale out the nose for a count of five. (exhaling loudly) So if you do this breathing you will activate your and you'll start to calm So it's an amazing breathing technique. The second technique is a little bit more advanced, but this is such an incredible technique that doctors and therapists because it's also so healing. So for this one, this is something that's better to do when It's a little more advanced, What we're going to do is we're going to inhale through our nose (inhaling loudly) We're going to hold our We're going to exhale out the (exhaling loudly) Okay, so we want to do So let's try this one more time. So we inhale for four, we hold for seven, we exhale out the mouth So we'll try it one more time. So we're going to inhale for hold for seven, exhale out the mouth for (laughing) Amazing. Okay, so those are two before a conversation in English, and I know that they will help you, help you find calm, help But what can you do if in English and you start to get nervous? So this brings me to my fifth point. So, often times we can't in English, especially if we live in an English speaking country, so we might be surprised by So I want to share with you what you can do to find peace and calm during So the first thing is that that when you start to speak, you'll activate your vagus nerve, and this has a calming effect So the more you speak, the So I think this is a really cool fact. This is something that's because it helps us to stay confident. So that means, if you get take it, it will be easier to because you'll be calming So I'm not saying though that you should just start babbling like we don't want to be awkward about it, but we just want to take the opportunity to speak when it arises. Okay, so the second thing that we can do that will help us to calm things down is that we can simply notice our breath during the conversation. So noticing our inhale, seeing if we can breath deeper, seeing if we can slow our breath down. So breathing in and out to feel more calmly during a conversation. Slower breaths, deeper during the conversation Okay, another thing that you can do, this is called orienting. If you're in a conversation you can simply find or at eye level to look at. You just look at that settle on that thing for a few seconds. This will help you to find your center and to calm things down. Of course, this one could be awkward if you're talking to and you start looking around. So we don't want to do that, because that could be really awkward. We want to either look at or we could use this last technique, which is called grounding. So to ground, you basically Become aware of the soles of your feet, how your feet feel in your shoes. Become aware of the connection of the sole of your foot with your shoe. This will bring you and this will help you to And of course, when we are our brain is functioning Okay, so those were about how your breath can help you become a more confident, and just How your breath can help and to move beyond your comfort zone. I really loved teaching this lesson today. I hope that you guys got a lot out of it. I would love to hear in the comments how you're breathing right now, or how you felt when we were doing some of those breathing exercises. I'm looking forward to but until then if you'd you can click below, if you're interested as soon as they come out. Thank you guys so much. I can't wait for our next lesson.