The red thing is, think about my hand is qiang ying. To confuse someone, if I do like this, even do faster, you probably get confused. And then stab at you. Hello everyone, I'm Zak Song. I'm a professional kung I have been training and Today we're gonna look at a to see how realistic they are. That's very realistic. Staff is the fundamental training for any kind long weapons You have to go through and then when you learn, spear We do have a training, it's called a swap. For example, my staff is here, But I will swap it. You grab what? You grab empty. And then I can use the So that is very realistic as well. That's a realistic sweep staff. Staff is like for the range, for like say: One, two, three, four... Many people here, I can use the staff, (Zak whooshing) hit like But once you done a sweep, you can (Zak whooshing) sweep, you have to use this energy to come back. You don't want to (Zak drag you away. You use the energy (Zak That's very realistic as well. The staff guy, he got a In kung fu we have another training, it's called the ground techniques. You have to know how to fall. Someone trying to give you a kick, you bam, you jump in the air, you land. You have to hold your If you don't hold your energy, you'll be like, bam, the You'll be like, oh, that's too painful. All of the staff technique, you can do it in real Nine, give him nine. That's very good Spear is one of the challenging weapon. It's like a dragon. Dragon is flexible, soft, and at the same time, with power as well. If I'm holding a spear, I And then I come back, So that's why the flexibility So if the spear is not flexible, will be not that easy to bounce back. If you are very good with kung fu, you can do like this, no problem at all. I'm holding a spear. This is go like, which is block. Someone trying to stab me with the sword, I block, I take control, and then I stab. In the situation you don't If someone uses sword, the circle, still do the same, but bigger. Then block and then You can move around. For the martial art, for kung Even in the real situation That's no problem. Any kind of weapon, you break The spear we use, even the wooden one, they made by white wax But like a plant, you have to water it, it will become dry out which means there's no juice left inside. It will be very difficult to bounce. You wanna bounce back, so you Use too much power, it &quot;Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,&quot; 10. This staff is different from normal staff. Normal staff, it just The staff should be like, with your own height See this staff is longer, If I hold it like a normal staff I can swap the staff easily, But the long weapon is very difficult. If you swap back, it's gonna be challenge. Long weapon is a big challenge. You can see the moves, he You can see, he sweeps the legs. That's very good choreography. Also the style is very flexible. He uses the flexibility to bounce back to hit another opponent. He does this, the circle like spear. He can make some spear moves as well. It's like you combine everything together. Two versus one is very common, so we do this kind of training. Once you're good at one And then you can one versus If you good at it you can do like that. That's no problem. The move's very realistic, Long weapon is a big challenge. If this person get into you have to think about it If I hold it like a normal staff I can swap the staff easily, But the long weapon is very difficult. You have maybe, hold the thing, then trying to push this person back. Every weapon, there's a break point. Break point means the Normally on the top, or in the end. Sometimes you use the middle. Energy point, you can see with the top of his staff, So the people, they which means trying to the energy point. It isn't realistic in the they want to make it look cool to have the exaggerate the moves. They do have some pressure points. He use this energy to bounce back to hit. If you hit here with the power, you do get someone knocked over. And you just knock over. Give this move a 10 as well. The movement is good, two versus one. The one person is using staff technique. You can turn back, even you can feel behind. I focus here, I know someone maybe use, this side you can see in the back, you hold your staff in the back. And then because hold it back, someone trying to strike at I can use it to come back to strike. You have to be very versatile There's no specific rules or steps. The move is very realistic you don't need to do fancy unless you're very good at it. You do the moves, like jump Because I think he is at the ends, so that's why He uses two sides as That's good. He spin his staff as well. It's all like a fundamental and it's very good. That's not real and you can spin one circle Spin one circle to use That's okay. Let's say your opponent here, you do a spinning strike You can be flexible, but too many times that's like choreography. The movies, to make it like cool. You can see the moves is not coordinated, you can tell straight because there's no energy Once you're good at the kung fu, right? You just naturally do it. The moves for the staff But just the spinning part, as well, but don't spin two circles. You don't do like this, I will say, give a seven. That's wonderful. Jet Li uses a lot of moves. The block, that's a Block, control, and step. If I'm hold a spear, I I watch carefully the opponent. If he make a strike, a sword coming, not here yet, you can block. And then you do the next, you react to it, you do the next move. If you're good at that, you can use that. Talk about the flips, with the energy, it's not Unless you do more, over and over, over, of course you get tired. For some people they They do one, they'll be like exhausted. I love all of his moves he's very flow. That's wushu, he trained wushu as well. You can see wushu is and also break points, and fast as well. And in kung fu we see not just physical, it's the spirit as well. In kung fu we say, &quot;Together, coming together as one.&quot; You hold your staff, or you hold a spear. Together, the movement That's very good, very good. So the Mandarin for The red thing is, think That one is for traditionally, do a circle to confuse someone. If I do like this, even do faster, you probably get confused, You don't know. I try to confuse you and be So that's like a normal spear height, but it is longer than the staff. But in real situation that is possible. If some people use the staff they are the same. If you use too much You can do like that if you hit very hard. Our rating for this will be 10. See, Jet Li's moves is In kung fu wushu training we do have this. See, from this height swap to this height, and do a posture like this. If you are really good at kung fu you can do any kind of pose. You can control the situation. You can start like this, You can go pow, pow, you look back. You feel the move, pow, pow. It's not kung fu wushu Kung fu martial art will require flow and smooth coordination, The footwork, is need to be light. You can see the differences right? You already see. So when you do the moves, the sword move this man doing at first. Some modern-day actor and actress, they can learn the moves. But they cannot learn the internal part which is the feeling, the spirit inside. - One, zero. - One, one. - That's very important, the training. You have to know how In the sparring training, I can use full energy but I control to not let my training I can go this, I know here to stop. I don't go past that break point. The break point, I say break They don't go pow, they go past. Your opponent will get injured. The moves is very Even though they are using staff, they're using sword technique. When they're holding staff, but this move, this move, right? This move, pow, pow, pow, hold the staff, is a sword technique, to make sure your wrist become flexible. You can use it as chop Also combine some staff technique as well, such as a sweep. And this is chop, a sword chop. The combat choreography, very practical. The combat, the camera little bit dizzy to watch. That's an eight. I like this one, this is like There's a modern style, traditional style. So traditional style If you go to a battle field, right? The sword coming, I can just block. Very straightforward A traditional style doesn't it's just practical. That's very realistic. In a combat, you really Try and see like you know, part his spear, he can come at you, kicks. Come at your flying kicks together, right? Kung fu is a holistic training. If you want to master one thing you have to holistic training. You have to do the kicks training, you have to the stances training. You can see the spear, they They have basic stances you have to know. And then there's basic kicks. You have to know basic flying kicks. Now you have to separate every single move to come by other moves together You feel like you are You can see his body language, everything. That's very good. That's very realistic and also advanced. Our rating for this will be 10. My favorite one is like, Jet The reason is I do the same I enjoy the moves as a flow and also smooth choreography, and make it like real as well. If you enjoy the video, please