Compared to human experience, the Universe That's a soul-crushingly long time. That's than, well, everything. Pretty much by definition. And yet, when you think about time itself, like a long time to us, now. But time keeps the Universe is a little bit older. I mean But have you ever really thought about what billion years old. 30. Then 50 billion, a the clock still ticks. Those numbers sound Time runs long. What will the Universe look Different. It'll look different. We're about to go on a long journey. Literally the First, a bit of a content warning: The stuff interesting, incredibly cool... and, well...maybe I want to say that it's not all darkness Well, to be honest, it's mostly darkness almost literally, at the end of the long, I'm going to have to use some pretty big BIG. Probably bigger than any numbers you've notation, which is a shorthand way of expressing For example, the number 100 is equal to 10 or "ten to the power of two." 1000 is the third power. This might seems silly for smaller numbers, million is 10 to the 6th, a billion is 10 the power, the exponent, goes up by one, the the 18th isn't twice as big as 10 to the At different times in the life of the Universe, the current Universe, NOW, you can make the they produce the most amount of energy. Before I suppose, generally speaking. Astronomers Fred Adams and Greg Laughlin looked long time scales, and divided it into five book, The Five Ages of the Universe, which official in any way, but I think they did use them. First came the Primordial Era, which we already everything from the moment the Universe big about 400 million years later. The second era is the one we live in now, Era. We're about 13.4 billion years into But how long will it last? Or to phrase it The lower the mass of a star the longer it into helium at a very slow rate. Models indicate about a trillion years. That is a long time. A red dwarf that formed have used up about 1% of its hydrogen, and human terms, they're still infants. Right now, galaxies are merrily churning away, that gas will run out. Estimates vary, but to peter out in a few billion years. Fewer will start to die off. Galaxy collisions and that, so maybe that'll extend things a bit. or a hundred, it hardly matters. When the longest star sticks around for a here and there? As this happens, galaxies will change color that are a vibrant blue in color, the massive But as these stars die and the fainter, lower and dim. A few billion years after the nebular long-lived red dwarfs. In a trillion years, this is what awaits us. that show the very lowest mass stars MIGHT not going to worry too much over factors of are essentially statistical fluctuations. But when that does happen, when the last star in the Universe generating appreciable energy neutron stars, and black holes. And, to be intermediate in mass between stars and planets. With the exception of black holes, these objects pressure. That means, in a few trillion years, and the start of the Degenerate Era. The Universe will be dark. Dark to human eyes, years, or that we're even around. In the these objects will be glowing at those wavelengths Well, lukewarm. Neutron stars and white dwarfs long that takes depends on how massive they assume that they'll have cooled to room And the deeper we get into the Degenerate They'll have their moments though, because orbits will decay, and the stars will merge stars will merge and form gamma-ray bursts a thousand galaxies in this far-flung future. Briefly. These are short-lived events, and darkness. Interestingly, brown dwarfs are a better bet merge to form a relatively normal if low-mass of years. But again, time is long. After a Stars just ain't what they used to be. In fact, in the Degenerate Era, neither is In our dark energy episode, I mentioned that shrink. At the same time, all the galaxies forming one big elliptical galaxy. By deep to see is our own bloated, dark galaxy; the from us. Not that there'll be all that much to see And I hate to say this, but even THAT won't Our models of how subatomic particles behave protons -- the positively charged particles half-life of such an event is brain-hurtingly certainly longer. But the Degenerate Era is longer yet. As protons White dwarfs, neutron stars, brown dwarfs, constituent protons decay. There's an upside, decay, which releases a tiny bit of energy, about the energy of 400 Watts. Mind you, the power, and it's a lot smaller than a white look like a bright star does to us now. By 1040 or so years from now, even degenerate will be left are black holes. Thus begins the Black Hole Era. Black holes don't generate a lot of energy of material that can be torn apart and turned they just sit there. However, there is a way black holes can make I KNOW. Most people think that black holes that's where it is forever. Oh, but that's a pesky word: "forever." what does "forever" mean? Back in the 1970s, physicist Stephen Hawking with quantum mechanics, and discovered that This is a very weak effect, and has extraordinarily -- check the dooblydoo for links that explain can very slowly leak mass, and the more massive How slow? A black hole with three times the in a supernova, will take about 1068 years time... but the Universe can wait. Even supermassive black holes in galactic -- 10^92 years. 10 to the 92nd power. That number is so huge, come up with an analogy for it. It's a 1 that many subatomic particles in the entire See what I mean? Ridiculous. That's the But it'll happen. Eventually. As black holes so each time one evaporates completely it'll off. During the Black Hole Era, that'll Eventually, they'll all go away. And... else in the Universe except subatomic particles they might as well not exist. That'll happen At this point, the Universe, it's safe to the ominously named Dark Era. It'll stretch That's awful. I mean, seriously, writing it's not fun to think about this stuff. I mean, it IS, There IS another idea that would prevent this but you won't like it much. Dark energy is pumping up the Universal expansion, much about dark energy; we don't even know how far out we can see into the Universe, One idea (among many) about dark energy is As it does, the horizon will shrink ever faster, But that's not some illusion, it's a physical No force -- not gravity or electromagnetism if that part of the Universe across the horizon Over time, according to this hypothesis, the it's smaller than our galaxy, smaller than system, smaller than our planet... and it'll subatomic particle! When that happens it'll most fundamental quantum level. Astronomers call this the Big Rip. We have but if it does it'll be many billions of long before the Dark Era. I'm not particularly comforted by this idea, really much more than conjecture. As we learn about its eventual influence on the fate of Yay? So. Is there any reprieve? Maybe. It's possible, though by no means A multiverse, if you will. Those other Universes ours has wound down. Of course, we can't And there's another idea. It's a little realm of physics as we know it. We think of the vacuum of space as being devoid quantum mechanics that this might be an illusion. don't see. Think of it like a staircase. the bottom step, but then you find out you're Our Universe may be narrowly balanced on this but if something bumps it, down it goes. It's possible that somewhere, out in the after a gazillion years, some small bit of to that next lower state, the true vacuum. It'll bump the regions around it, and they'll part -- well, it's all weird, but here's the laws of physics get rewritten. How? We know what happens in there. But in a sense Like, poof. Gone. Everything changes, at some This wave of destruction expands at the speed the Universe. What is left behind in its wake We literally can't know. This idea actually gives me hope. Think of a long, long life, and lingered an unimaginably to start over again. Maybe this is similar first place, as a quantum fluctuation in some create everything we know. Maybe this has happened before and will happen of times. I have to say, I like this idea. just conjecture at this point -- but if it one Universe. It's the opportunity for the And that is perhaps the single most hopeful Today you learned that our Universe's days trillion years, protons will decay and matter trillion years, black holes will evaporate But there's hope that a new Universe will There's always hope. Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association before the end of the universe to watch even by me, Phil Plait. The script was edited by Michelle Thaller. It was directed by Nicholas designer is Michael Aranda, and the graphics