Translator: Tanya Cushman Good morning. I wanted to take you back to that incredible Bobby McFerrin video and take a closer look and I'm going to spare you So just to recap quickly, Bobby started by giving this one, and then by moving a little bit this one, right? Then they went back and forth And when he jumped indicating a higher pitch - but without singing it, the entire audience landed on this one. Right? It was amazing. You saw it. And of course, this begs the question, why this pitch? Why not this one or this one I suppose it's possible had their musical education at the hands as in but that doesn't seem like So back to the video. The audience is now two that were given to them, and this one that they Then Bobby jumps to his right and they have a total of four. And from that point on, All he had to do was indicate whether he wanted them But, slowly but surely, all of these notes And they did it together, as if they'd just come out of rehearsal. It was really incredible. How do we explain that? How do we explain Bobby's comment where he said that this works regardless of culture, The pentatonic scale, the five-note scale, one, two, three, four, five - right? just in two different registers, &quot;The pentatonic scale,&quot; Wouldn't it be nice if there was that would help us explain how someone in New York would complete this musical puzzle Well, it turns out a universal acoustic phenomenon It's called the &quot;harmonic series,&quot; and it works a little bit like this. So, tell me what you hear. (Plays C) You might think that all you're hearing is this low and rich which is produced by its corresponding strings inside And you're right, Because as the laws of physics remind us, while that string is vibrating it's also vibrating in two and then three equal parts and so on and so on. And each one of those divisions overtones. And they occur in a very specific order. And the wonderful thing is that this isn't just true it's true of any regularly like the strings on a flute - sorry, I'll get to the flute, a vibrating Every note produced has embedded within it this very specific, completely dictated by nature. So, let's try our own experiment and see if I can get you to hear The first one, as I said, is the result of the string and it's going to be the C If you go back to Maria you remember that we learned our right? eight notes of the scale, and every eight notes, So what I'm going to do is silently I'm not playing it, I'm just allowing and listen to what happens (Plays C) You hear that higher C? One more time. (Plays C) Everybody hear that? Show of hands. Who doesn't hear it? Excellent, amazing. So the next overtone is the result of the string and it's going to be a G, now just five white notes away So let's repeat the same experiment. The tones get fainter as they go up, I silently depress that G and strike (Plays C) Hear it? Everybody hear it? This one's so clear because It's no longer a C, as the first two were; it's now a new note, a G. The next overtone continues this trend it's now just four white notes Let's see if you can hear this one. It should be quite faint, (Plays C) Everybody hear that? It's quite faint, but there, right? And on we go: the next one, It's a new note, so now we have a C, a G and an E. The one after that is yet another G, so we're stuck with, still, And the next one is interesting; it falls in the cracks Now, there's a long and complicated and it has to do with how but for today's purposes, just remember that sound-wave frequencies aren't limited to they can occur anywhere, and so we have our fourth different tone. Let's recap: we have and now this beautiful, that you can either hear as the lower one or the upper one with The next overtone is another C, so we still have just four And the fifth new note is and it is a D. So, to recap again: We have the original C, this G, this E, this beautiful color A,B-flat and this D. Five notes. What happens when I put them all together? You hear they're all So, here's the C, the D, the E, the G, and the color A or B-flat. Now, I'm going to interpret which is the more common approach. And, you guessed it, what we have are the five notes (Plays pentatonic scale) embedded in every single note Now, as such, the pentatonic is one You can find it (Chinese folk music) I know you're dying to try this at home, so on your piano, it's easy just play all the black keys. How about as far away as Scotland? (Music: &quot;Auld Lang Syne&quot;) Same five notes. Or imagine a pan flute and that (Andean Music) Or how about African (Music: &quot;Swing Low, Sweet Chariot&quot;) Same pentatonic. Or how about this one? (Music: &quot;Amazing Grace&quot;) Same five notes again. And this turns out to be one of composers' favorite tools So here's the French composer Debussy trying to conjure up (Music: &quot;Estampes, I. Pagodes&quot;) Or how about a little bit closer (Music: &quot;Purple Haze&quot;) Even that one, purely pentatonic. And we could go on all day. I haven't given examples or Native American music or Greek music. It really seems like that don't use the pentatonic I don't know if, like me, of these ancient cave and the very fascinating art Among the artifacts dating back 30, 40,000 years, made from animal bones, and when those were reconstructed, it turned out that even some of those So it seems to me have left us a little bit more They remind us that whether we've been picking up the notes and incorporating it to the point where they seem so familiar that a roomful of strangers just by watching a man jump on stage. You know, musicians get very excited because it really does hold so many keys to understanding the way music developed But for me, one of the most important with real deep, attentive listening, and I'm not just talking about There's still a lot for us if we just choose to listen. Thank you. (Applause)