- Which has more destructive power, lava or acid? Well, to answer that question, today, they'll be going head-to-head in a bit of a scientific face off by testing each against seven objects, including a turkey leg, a bunch of toys, a and finally an actual functioning car. Oh wow! So to do this properly, I've invited out YouTube's foremost expert when it comes to chemical reactions. - I think it's good to go. - With the buttery smooth voice of a high school chemistry teacher. (glass shattering) - [NileRed] Oh no. - NileRed. And his opponent in this matchup will be YouTube's very own lava king. (flame whooshing) You love him much more - You didn't see the fire. It was like, almost to the top. - [Neighbor] I just walked out here. - Yeah, it was pretty cool. (upbeat symphony music) - Kevin, the backyard scientist. But there's a catch 'cause there's no way I'm just gonna stand by and watch. So for each of the seven objects, I'll be testing a wild that will be different for each object. So for example, for the turkey leg, my wild card factor of destruction may or may not be ravenous piranhas. And then for the baseball bat, it might involve Superman X-Ray vision (flame whooshing) that can do this in two seconds. (can clinking) That's pretty strong. And the nerd trash talk commenced immediately. - Nothing beats a volcano. - I think acid could. - Or the X factor. You guys don't know what I'm bringing to the table. Oh and I do wanna mention while I am no Mr. Beast, winner of today's competition gets a car. I'm not even tricking. You can drive it? - Yeah. But before we even got started. - Is this the right place? - [Mark] Someone you might recognize from our world's largest lemon battery collab showed up. Mr. William Osmond. But since he legitimately I made him be referee. And so with the terrifying realization that I really should have larger spare referee shorts on hand, it was time to commence our seven item showdown of destruction, starting first with Kevin's magma getting a chance to destroy a turkey leg. - Here we go. Turkey leg versus lava. - Oh yeah, yeah! (Mark laughing) Yes! - [Lava King] Burn! - He's enjoying us way too much. - Boom! - That was more violent Once it eventually cooled down, we cracked open the crucible to inspect the damage. Oh! And while it definitely it just turned the rest - It's fine. - Delicious Thanksgiving turkey leg, which I know, 'cause we definitely all gave it a taste. - Oh, come on! - Which meant it was time for acid to enter the chat. (upbeat techno music) And I guess in hindsight, this shouldn't have been considering what our own stomach acids due to food, but given a little bit of time, it was terrifyingly efficient. - Guys, come here. What do you think of the turkey leg? - What's the clear and what's the dark stuff here? - The dark stuff is the turkey leg. (friends laughing) - How do we know you didn't just throw it in the bush over there? - Yeah. - And so after a fruitless if I was gonna steal round it would come down to my brilliant wild card element of destruction, which just so happened to be a school of 50 pirahnas I located in a New Jersey pet store that took less than a minute to clear a drumstick down to the bone. My plan however was ruined when I went to ship the piranhas, because apparently in California, they're illegal to own as pets. Fortunately, the pet store informed me that bucktooth tetras, while smaller, with an enough of 'em, would apparently do just as much damage. - Oh! It's instant! - And while there was a bit of a nibble frenzy when I raised it up, it which was embarrassing not only for me, but frankly for the state of California. - You remember what you said at the beginning of this, is you'd eat whatever's left. - I definitely never said that. (friends laughing) Which gave acid the early lead, sending us into round two with the iPad. Kevin and his lava were hungry for a W, and that hunger only intensified when they saw the C tier YouTube content playing on the iPad. - Right on my face. - Sorry Will. - Oh! (flame whooshing) - Oh! - Oh, now we can't see if it's playing. - Oh, it's so hot. - Okay, okay, okay. That's enough. - No more, more, more. The molten rocks had But for the real question, was it enough to stop (Ipad crackling) Yes, of course that's going to do it. Nigel was up next. And with more video content suitable for destruction loaded up, he slipped the iPad into eight liters of concentrated acid. (Ipad buzzing) - The video turned off instantly. - It was time to see what acid could do. - Oh man. - Hey, give it time. Give it time. And even with a full hour of soaking, not much happened besides some kind of small reaction that turned the acid some cool colors, which makes us the perfect opportunity to debunk the idea that there are acids that can immediately dissolve all metals. And now you might say, &quot;Hold up, Mark. I've seen really popular where the metal spoon is immediately dissolved in acid.&quot; However, I would offer the counterpoint that the reason he could safely dip his fingers in the is because that's not acid. It's watered down Mountain Dew. And that spoon is actually which simply melts in lukewarm liquid. Now, certain acids can but it's a process that for chunks of metal like this. So with Nigel out of the running, it was time for the wild card. Normally this fires tennis balls. Today we're firing golf balls at like 200 miles an hour. - I bet I could catch it. - Though I feel good on my destructive capabilities. The real question is, how's my aim? (cannon whooshing) Pretty good as it turns out. (metal clinking) - Oh my! - Yeah! - And even after all this, it still had enough kinetic energy to dent the back wall. Wow. - It almost split the - This looks very violent. Let's see your acid do that, Nigel. Is this a W? - It's pretty cool. This meant I was tied for first as we headed into the ice round. - Are you ready? - Fire versus ice. And lava came right out (lava sizzling) No! No! - We! - No! you didn't make it through one. - Oh, look at it bubble, though. - Admittedly, the But other than that, Kevin was grasping at straws. - Look, I made lava spaghetti. - The ref tallied the final count as only breaking through (ice shattering) (friends screaming and laughing) Noting that the final break was too little too late, which made it acid's turn. And almost immediately. Oh wow. It tied lava. - It's through. It's through. - It's through. Wow. - I'm trying to aim. - It just kept breaking through each layer as the acid mixed with the water. Creating an exothermic reaction that bored a hole through - Yeah, one more. - One more. Why am I rooting for you? - Ultimately, Nigel's acid made it through every last sheet of ice, which meant my wild card would have to do the same and do it faster. Gentlemen, my approach here is a little bit more Kevin than Nigel. (flame thrower whirring) (Mark screaming) I feel like that did nothing. - Wow, you're making water. - All right a good engineer always has a backup plan. (ice shattering) As a timely delivery of potential energy from the Acme Corporation. - Oh! - Not only finished off my ice, but it also took care of Nigels. - He killed money too. - Yeah. No, that was a regular foul. - What? But with further evidence of referee bias. - Flame thrower, not - You're ruining everything. The win-win to Nigel, which put acid back in first place headed to the toy city. And this one for sure had toy story vibes going on. - Three, two, one. - Wow. - Which definitely makes - Whoa. It's going right for the school. - Oh no, for the school. - Whoa, whoa. Oh, no Stretch scratched. - I eventually swooped in to save the townspeople. I got it. I'm a hero. But arguably it was. - Oh Stretch. - Ah. Too little too late. - I don't think he's gonna make it back. - So with an identical It was more bad news - Start with some sulfuric. - Sulfuric. As the forecast called for acid rain. - Oh! He has red hair now. - And after a combination the townspeople were mildly inconvenienced at best. - Wait, wait. Stretches hair is back to yellow. - And the lack of reaction sort of makes sense in hindsight because polymers have highly stable chemical structures, so the acid can't break them down, which is not only the reason it takes them so long to but it's also why most acids are therefore stored in plastic containers. So in contrast to that lame result, it was time for the Mark Rober Wild Card. In the form of a two ton steam roller. America! (heavy metal rock music) (machine whirring) (friends laughing) - Yes. - And while I get this figured out, this makes a great time to mention that. If you haven't been to Crunch Labs yet, I have the next best thing because you can now visit Crunch Labs for free in Roblox, but it's way cooler than that. 'Cause the game's called, &quot;Build a Rocket versus Mark Rober,&quot; where you build fully customizable rockets with your friends and then use your engineering skills to help me defeat the evil fat tail rescue my squirrel friends. And we've been secretly working on this project for over a year. And I already know and say, &quot;I'm just doing this as a trick to teach you science.&quot; And to that, I say, &quot;How dare you? I'm just trying to make And if you happen to learn about projectile motion and Newton's second law in the process, well that's not my fault.&quot; Oh, and the coolest part is that anyone who passes the game with the help of Phat Gus before the end of the year can enter for a chance to win a platinum ticket to come out to CrunchLabs in real life for a day and we'll make a real life version of the rocket you designed in the game. So visit CrunchLabs.com/Roblox with a parent to learn how you can enter and then you can go play, &quot;Build a Rocket,&quot; on Roblox for free so you can learn stuff. I mean, just like have a bunch of fun building rockets with your friends. Now where were we? (heavy metal rock music) Yeah! - No, this very unsportsmanlike. - Oh. - Yeah! I mean I basically just but it still felt cool. - One Mark Rober versus Who would've thought the Buzz Light Years would win? This one a hundred percent goes to Kevin. - All right, this is the bat challenge. You gonna choose wood or metal? - Definitely. I think metal, (bat sizzling) - Oh wow. - That made a sound. - Kevin's lava quickly melted away the top half of the bat. - Whoa. - As he topped things off. Oh, that's a nice layer, Kevin. With a gratuitous flourish. So it was up to Nigel's acid to top that. - This time you got it, Nigel? (metal clinking) - Yeah. - At this point it's me. And I'm actually gonna 'Cause my contraption just happens to be a 2000 watt laser, which you may or may not recognize because this is Kevin's laser. It's true. And it's also how he knew - You shouldn't have chose wood. - This 2000 watt laser is actually terrifyingly effective So we ran a test. (tense music) (can clinking) Clearly I need to swap for the metal bat. Judge, can I? - Now you see why he wasn't invited. Regardless, I pressed onward. All right. (wood sizzling) Oh my goodness. That's pretty strong. Here I go. And this was honestly the closest thing to a real life lightsaber - Oh my God. He's like two thirds through, I think. Oh! Look at that pure destruction. - I think that that is really cool. And Kevin's laser did it. - And with that questionable ruling, it meant if I didn't I couldn't outright win this competition. Even with the finale worth two points. 1.2 karats right here. - I do. As usual Kevin kicked things off. - Ready? - Bloop. As we completely encased the diamond in sort of a lava sandwich. Wow. And after it cooled off and we chiseled away the actual obsidian. Nothing for lava. The diamond was perfectly intact. 1.2 karat diamond versus acid. (water plopping) Yeah. - It's working. - Classic acid. It's time for the wild (anvil thudding) and get back to basics. I'm just gonna smash the crud out of this. Just to reclaim my honor. With the W heading into three, two, one. (hammer thudding) I missed. (friends laughing) - Did you miss again, Mark? - No. Are you kidding me? That round's a wash. You have two points. You have two points. You have no points 'cause And I've got one. Which set up the perfect finale showdown where we each brought - Where's Mark? - Where is Mark? (engine revving) (upbeat country music) - That's probably Mark. - Yee haw! Yeah! (car crashing) - Oh, he hit my car. - Dude, why'd you park so close? - You only know how to - The rules were simple. Whoever could disable will get two points and win it all. Starting first with Nigel who is pulling out all the stops. - I have a propane burner here with a nice big beaker loaded with hydrochloric acid. I'm gonna start adding nitric acid and this will make the same mixture that can dissolve gold. Aqua regia start the engine. We'll get this aqua regia nice and hot. It'll just start tearing To trigger it I have something special. - To pour the acid on the car from a safe distance. He had a clever solution, but before he could get to that. - Oh. - We were rudely interrupted. Wow more uninvited science YouTubers as Stephanie and Allen. And since they were already here, I put 'em to work with more questionably sized referee uniforms, after which Nigel was up. Now when acid comes in contact with the service of the metal, it rips away the metal We call this corrosion. So you can increase the corrosive destructive power by either one, increasing the concentration of the acid, meaning there's more magnets. Or two, you heat it up that just means the molecules are moving around way more. So you increase the will make contact with the metal and attract away in atom. And so in this case, as a last ditch effort, Nigel did both. Now we just had to shatter the beaker. (slingshot clicking) (glass clinking) - Nigel, this was your plan? Why does it just make holes? - I like the slow release. Oh, there it goes. - That is terrifying. - I've never seen a gas that color before. - Now for the verdict. - It's still running. - Still running. Honda makes a good car. And as Nigel released his frustrations. (air whooshing) (glass shattering) You feel better, Nigel? - I prepared to release in the form of a 50 ton excavator. And as I figure out the controls. Oh. I got it. I want to remind the viewer the purpose of this video was to use tools of scientific inquiry for the noble cause of furthering our understanding of interactions in the natural world. And definitely not just to live out my lifelong dream of operating a 50 ton excavator. (metal clinking) - [All] Arm tank. Arm tank. Arm tank. (Mark screaming) - Yeah! Oh yes! Yeah! Yes! (upbeat heavy metal music) (car horn beeping) - Oh no. - Just put it out of its misery Mark. - Yeah! Whoo! (car crashing) (friends cheering and clapping) And with my finishing move. - There you go. - That was pretty good. - I am very precariously balanced. While the horn was somehow still working, the engine was definitely not and I returned to receive the praise from my contemporaries. - The machine was impressive. (friends laughing) - All right. - Lava. - So for the grand finale lava. (upbeat techno music) (friends cheering) (lava sizzling) (fire whooshing) With the lava poured, it was time for Kevin's escape. (Kevin screaming) Oh, it stopped already no. - As soon as I poured it on there. - Are you serious? - Wow, all it took was (friends laughing) - Oh, something's happening. Oh wow. Luckily we had some fire (extinguisher whooshing) That basically did nothing. So now the judges just had to confer amongst themselves. Don't make me regret ever even having invited any of you in the first place. And deliver the verdict. - Okay, so. - Kevin, your car stopped at four seconds. - Nigel's car still runs perfectly. - Literally still running. at any moment. - And Mark, how long did Mark take? - Add 10 minutes to even get on the thing. - You counted for when I start moving? (clock ticking) Which honestly feels like a technicality, but I'm nothing. - Kevin! - If not a gracious loser. And as a reward for a fight well fought, I gave Kevin the indestructible 1.2 carrot diamond. Congratulations. Now go drive off in your cars. You're welcome. I'm basically Oprah. (door thudding) Given that we've been secretly working on this Crunch Labs Roblox I'm super stoked to show you in an exclusive world premiere the official game trailer. Build a rocket where the sky's not the limit, it's just the beginning. I'm Mark Rober and my new game, &quot;Build A Rocket,&quot; is your key to a super cool space adventure. Build rockets here at Crunch Lab's, journey to distant planets, mine for valuable resources. Then build even cooler mega rockets to explore the furthest You could build with your friends. Customize your rocket with unlimited combinations, navigate treacherous space environments, and then use your mad engineering skills to help me defeat the evil rat Phat Tail to get my squirrel friends back. Building your first rocket's super easy, but if you wanna master the game, you'll need to think like an engineer and balance your rocket's mass, thrusters, fuel supply, and navigation capabilities. As you explore each planet, you'll find unique Will you dig deep into the alien soil of the Martian surface? Or make some discoveries like Twistopia or Well, that's totally up to you. And in between rocket missions, you can hang out with your friends at Crunch Labs, where you might even including hints at whatever my next video will be. And Crunch Labs is actually a real place. It's where I come up with the ideas and builds for all my videos. And anyone who beats the game before the end of this year has a chance to win a platinum ticket, to come to Crunch Labs where we'll build an actual version of the rocket which you So visit CrunchLabs.com/Roblox with the parent to learn how to enter. Or you can just play the game, &quot;Build a Rocket,&quot; for free on Roblox. 'Cause I'll actually be there playing myself a bunch and I can't wait to see the super clever ideas that you come up with. Thanks for watching. (bell dinging) (bubble popping)