We are going to light the fire to make a shepherd's knife, which is the main tool that the shepherd had to have in the port with the sheep. If he didn't carry the knife, he couldn't cure the sheep that came out lame, nor could he make the ranch, the crumbs, potatoes and soups or an ajoarriero of cod with potatoes, because he also needed to eat hot broth, the shepherd like the others. The material of the knife is goat horn, the handle is one piece. The knife, which I have here in this bag, is going to come out of a goat's horn. The shepherds give me the horns of the goat and the goat's husband. From the horn of this goat, which is also from Sinues the rancher, and from this old scythe, I will heat it, flatten it and we will take out the cutting blade. And we will heat it from the horn, flatten it and take out the handle. This is what is used to make a knife, so that the shepherd, which are the two main things, that he needs in port for the sheep. Well, this is the charcoal that I make, because before, charcoal makers came. Since we are in a forge we have to add charcoal to make it ember. The flame that comes out of the forge cannot heat the horn, the horn only needs heat from an ember, otherwise it would burn and in this way I heat it and straighten it so that it becomes soft and then we will press it. The first part of this knife is the handle and since it is a crooked horn, it must be straightened. And since this is rigid and has to be made soft, it will be in the heat of the ember. So if we heated it up too much it would get soggy. And what you have to do, when it starts to get hot, wet it. We put it in the water and again in the forge. And so we're going to give it a while until it becomes soft. To heat up one of these mangoes, we're going to be here for half an hour. Because the horn, the soul inside, has to come out, now it will come out when it warms up. The horns are hollow. When the horn begins to heat up, it takes out a little bit of dust and you have to clean it so that it doesn't get stuck to the horn. That dust must be removed. Now you have to hammer it a little so that it softens inside and the soul of the horn comes out. Look, this is what breeds the horn that is born and lengthens as the years pass in the goat. This is the soul of the horn. Let's keep giving it. If the horn remains in the embers of the fire, it would burn, we would be left without a horn, and we must clean the little bit that comes from the horn itself and wet it, so that, just a little, so that the heat penetrates the horn from the inside. and then it becomes soft, this will bend by hand. This goes without saying, the heat, you do it, you clean it and get it wet. And again to the fire. It's already starting to give way, things are going well. When I make this three or four horns in a cauldron, before the water boils it takes half an hour, but then you have to boil it for two hours, so that the heat of the water makes it soft, which is how it begins to be already. We are going to start it right away, using two steel plates. Well, now with the horn very hot, with these two steel plates I place it here, well centered and press it. This has to stay here for a couple of hours now. We leave this here to cool, which will take a long time, maybe one hour or two, and now taking advantage of the forge that we have going, we are going to start making the leaf. The sheet that I have here are some cardboard templates. Well, since there are many horns and I make many razors, each horn is different and what happens? Well, first I have to make a cardboard template so that it fits well with the curve that the horn has and can then open it with the saw as you will see to attach it. But first you need a template like a tailor's and then cut the fabric. I took this scythe from that old pile and this is where the blade of the knife will come from because it is Acorn steel and it is the finest for cutting. We will heat it up and when it is very hot we will flatten it here with the hammer. I reserve this part for making the daggers and here the first knife and the second are where they come best from. Now we put the old scythe, which here we call dalla, in the forge and let it heat up, because here the heat is what softens the bodies. If you don't put water boiling or fire in things, everything is hard, but here it has to be given a good time. Now while the dalla is heating up to start forging the blade of the knife, which will take a while before it heats up, I am going to make a song to the shepherds and their mother who deserve it. If it weren't for them we wouldn't eat ribs. I don't sing well nor am I a singer, but it's more the content of the jota. So here it goes: And it filled me with flowers, I spread the blanket on the mountain and it filled me with flowers. Blessed are the mothers who gave birth to the shepherds, who gave birth to the shepherds, I spread the blanket on the mountain. See? It's already turning red. The charcoal that the charcoal burners made, or, now I make it because they don't come and it doesn't waste either, has a certain calorie, but the one that has heat is the one from Asturias, the stone one. This charcoal is made of hard coal and has a lot of heat. So when we put it here it's going to be hot right away. Let's start flattening it. The steel of the scythes is very good and very malleable, but, of course, it must be well heated, otherwise it will not work. Now we change the tool, the hammer must be left here, we put an anvil because the anvil is made of steel and if we put the cold cutter on the chopping block, with the scythe here it would not ruin the cut. This is soft iron and we are going to cut the scythe here. My son Jose is going to help me cut it, this will be prepared to make a dagger and we are going to make the knife from here. Smaller leaves will continue to grow from here, this one is a little big. Now we are going to take out what is going to be the knife. The piece more or less that will later have to be attached. Well, we now have the piece of the scythe we want here. From here it will come out, we will forge the blade. Okay, let's start hitting this and the knife we're going to make. You have to put it here to start forging it, take the point well and then we will make the holes. As it is, okay. Well, it's finishing heating up and we're going to start hammering the blade. To warm up. To forge it well, since there is a burr left on the chopping block when cutting on the anvil, you have to polish it a little. To hot steel suddenly beat. It immediately cools down. If you don't add charcoal there is no fire. There is a riddle that says, he created me, he destroyed me. What is it? It is the wood that you put on fire and the charcoal comes out, you put the charcoal back into the fire and it destroys it. He created me, he destroyed me. The charcoal fire. Now we are going to look at the horn to see if it has cooled and stays straight. Since more than an hour has passed, I think the horn will be ready to be removed. Here we have it. Perfect, straight as a bullet, this is like a shotgun shot. Well, now that I have these templates for paper knives, I'm going to cut more or less from here and see which template works well so that the blade that we are forging from Dalla steel works for us. I think that this piece has turned out bad here, we will have to cut here and this here, more or less. Well, let's cut it. Now we are going to fix the tips a little so that it stays a bit on the edge. Everything is difficult to do, but now we need to do what takes the most time, cutting it in the middle with the saw so that the steel sheet that we are forging can enter. In half, more or less by eye, in a couple of hours we have it cut. Well, this here now is what was cut before, but from now on; how do we do it? Well, at the point of a saw, which is what a knife costs. With a saw blade, first double and then the single one, you have to mark it and give it a try. It is very expensive, making one of these knives will take you a long morning. You see that this is a job of wanting to do it if not, it doesn't work out. Because the horn is natural, it is hard and the one that is hard is that of a deer. It's very expensive, it's a job that... but it has to be done, it has to be done because if not, we won't get the knife out. There is no other choice. Now we are finishing making the slit in the horn and I am going to take it out to make two holes in the drill to insert the rivet that holds the steel blade. Now, once I have made the slit, I am going to make the hole so that it can rotate. the steel blade and the back stop, because the knives have two rivets, one that rotates and another where it hits behind so that it does not break. I mark a hole here which is where it will turn and here the other one for the stop. Now we are going to make the hole for the knife to rotate and another hole for it to stop, since all knives have two rivets there. And now let's go for the other one. This is the one that stops the knife so that it does not break. Then there was no light, everything was a hammer, drill, rivet and glue in the forge, to weld the glue. Well, we now have the two holes and we are going to continue with the steel sheet that is in the forge to finish it and attach it here. Well here it is. Forge voucher. You have to sharpen it with a file, with emery paper and at the end the temper, because you have to have a temper left for it to cut well. We are going to make the hole, temper it and the last sharpening will be on the water stone. Now we put the knife, the already sharpened steel blade of the scythe, into the handle to make the hole. We put it right where it needs to go so that it rotates, we press it and make the hole. Hole made and before putting the rivet you have to heat it again over the fire and temper it. We put it on the fire and we will temper the leaf. We are heating to temper it with already burned charcoal that does nothing more than embers because if we added fresh charcoal now it would make a big bonfire and it doesn't heat up well, so now we are going to temper it. We take out. Tempered, with mild oil, now sharpen the water stone, which is what takes the edge and solved it. This water stone, in my father's time, fifty or sixty years ago, had a type of crankshaft and you would hit it with your foot and it would spin, but well, when the electricity came to us here in the town, we put this electric motor in it. and it is much more comfortable. The water stone brings out the finest edge so that the knife or the ax or whatever cuts better, because with the grinder the sharpening is coarser, with the water stone it is much better. Well, now, to the horn that is being drilled, this too, we will put the two rivets and a finished blade. Well, well this is already sharp. By putting your finger in like this, if it grabs it, it is already sharp, the hair is already cut. Now to join and make the knife work with the horn, we will put it like this and put the rivet. Now, well. Once we have the rivet, we put it here, we cut it with the saw. Well, it's already marked. Well, we have the two rivets that will go on the knife and we are going to fix the tips so that it fits. Once everything is ready, we put the knife where the hole is. There, we passed it. Once the rivet is in place, so as not to rivet on the horn itself, I put a washer here. To get it in we hit it with the pusher. Now another one on the other side. Now to rivet. We add a drop of oil, greasing oil, eh. Because as that one said, the oil goes well even in the salad, but it is different, this oil is for greasing and in the salad it is olive oil or whatever they make and that is not valid. It has to be greasing oil. Greased, this works and we are going to add the blacksmith's signature. The mark that I have that my father left like this, is branded with fire, just like the horns, these were marked with a brand and cattle are branded with a brand, this is with fire and it is a brand that remains. forever, both in the sheep and in the cows. And this is also heated in the forge, put here. That's it. Hey. When the horn of the goat comes out almost completely solid, which never comes out because they have the soul inside, for example, if this were from the same goat, which it is not, the horn would be this one. What do I do? The razor we made and a barber's razor. And this one only has one nail, why ? Because people break their necks and there are people, especially old people, when before they shaved in barbershops with razors that there was not yet an electric shaver, nor a blade, nor anything, it was the razor and with this, to shave one, it was the oldest that existed. And it's funny because many retirees who come to the town as tourists see it and the knife that I make, the knife that my company sells. woman there in the store. And then, this is from the same antler, let's say, this is from a deer antler, that the deer produces new, thick antlers every year and from that antler one more child emerges each year. If the general horn had five children from this horn, then the deer was five years old. From this piece that remains of the dalla, of the scythe, as it is thick and has material, this dagger comes out. I hook it in the forge, I straighten it, I heat it, I stretch it and out comes this beautiful dagger, the handle of which can be either from buxo, which is this, boxwood, or from the general horn of the deer, a gentleman's Acorn steel dagger too. Well, once the knife is finished, the signature is added, which is this, but, on all the cutting tools, or whatever, drills, axes, that bear this mark, they are made by me, by my family, by me. father, grandfather, whoever. I've put a mark here and another here, so it won't get lost. And here a hole, so that the shepherd can put a rope and tie the strap and the knife to his pocket. How we have finished the knife, let's try it. If I were the shepherd in port, I would cut the crumbs and put them in this cauldron, which was the tool where I made everything, the crumbs, potatoes and soups, cod stew, this stew was the shepherd's tool for eating. I cut the crumbs, here. If the bread started like this, then cut the crumbs, the finer the crumb is cut, the better. Well, cut the razor, how it works. Well, since we are not going to make any crumbs, nor are we any more, what we are going to do is cut ourselves a little, a horseshoe, a horseshoe of bread for you and another for me. And we are going to eat a bite of a very special meat. A piece of chorizo that we make from wild boar meat, because my children also like to go hunting, more than me, and this piece for me, a bite of bread and another for whoever likes it, if you like well and if you don't come this way. This is the chorizo that comes out of the wild boar, but this is a wild boar's leg, or rather, a macho javelin, because the wild boar is always a wild boar, a male, because it has to turn over the earth to eat. The male javelin is one that has not given birth in a year and this is from a male javelin. This is the salt that has been added to the leg, we put it here and start cutting. This is the first one that will be very salty and we call this wild boar jerky. You have to cut it thin, because the flavor comes out better and if you cut it too hard you can't bite it, it's not that it's hard, but... Let's see, Great one, when you kill wild boars, the good little boar leg, malerra especially, it is cleaned well, a chopped garlic, a layer of salt and if it weighs six kilos, six days, in a wooden container, in a type of trunk, it is covered with the cloth and after six days it is taken out and solved, let's eat. Very good. The shepherd in the port, in the hut or in the cave where he lived, once this was done and the crumbs or whatever , a drink of wine, health for everyone. But he had a boot, because the pouch in port could break. And he even took the boot with him when the shepherd went with the sheep all day. In your pants pocket or backpack you could not miss the knife, an essential tool for shaping a piece of wood, curing the patera of the sheep or cutting the food with which the shepherd feeds in the mountains. I am Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just watched. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will be uploading weekly.