- When have you experienced of disconnection from others, and what did you learn from it? I don't know, since I gained It feels like I spend more time dissecting the human experience (gentle upbeat music) My name is Kaelynn Partlow. I'm an author, I'm an autism advocate, I'm a content creator, and I'm a Registered Behavior Technician. We came prepared. We have three fidget toys. How could you possibly screw up if you have three fidget toys? You could not. All the anxious thoughts from the brain travel down the arm and into and they no longer live in the brain. I think I like balloon dog the most. (bouncy upbeat music) What do you imagine other Hmm, I think people, in person, and it is free from pain and I don't think they to the degree that I am. (ball rolling) Is there a voice in your head that tells you how bad you are? That says, &quot;You're selfish, Whose voice is that and when was the first I think when I was little, was that I was stupid. It meant I was stupid. And even if I didn't have a name for it, I felt stupid because I And how do you fail the 3rd grade and have a good self-esteem, you know? You kind of can't do those And so when I got assessed, I think, on everybody's we got ADHD, we got we got dysgraphia, dyspraxia. it kind of put a word to I was dyslexic, which but a little, just to have a word for it that wasn't dumb or wrong. (ball rolling) If someone doesn't understand you, what are you making it mean about you? In an ideal world, if somebody they would just say, &quot;I But traditionally, that's not They, I don't know, give What do the normies do? Yeah, sometimes they They don't tell you, &quot;Oh, They just are done with you. When I was little, I was And it wasn't enough to And so for a very long time, You know, my name is Kaelynn and I was nine years old, and I think sometimes if little kids at at the age and they would play dogs with me, but eventually, they would get bored or they'd be like, &quot;No, that's weird. We don't wanna do that.&quot; And that just didn't make sense to me. What action do you want to My first thought was, &quot;I need a new car &quot;and I don't want a car payment.&quot; But then, like, in consideration probably, the answer we're looking for is that I've not prioritized If I'm in a social situation, I have to think about intentionally listening to their words and filtering out my own brain noise. I have to think about and body language and posture to make sure that I don't send the wrong message. And so when you're faced or attempts that don't feel worthwhile, then it's really difficult to when you know that you're not What are you most afraid will or your life, and why? I guess, what if my interpersonal Feeling big emotions and and, by my own metric, being to live with, being lonely, like, I'm pretty satisfied with how I am, but, like, you're meant And so I guess I'd be afraid that I'd stay like this forever. My relationship with loneliness weekends, and holidays. The loneliness kind of creeps back in because I'm no longer needed And, you know, I've got need me in a personal capacity, but when those people don't need me or are busy, that's when the to set in and you start and realize, &quot;Well, wait a Where did everybody go?&quot; Everybody else is out living their life. Everybody else is out doing And I'm sitting here thinking about what things I might Sometimes I write when I feel that way and I'm a pretty good writer. And when I'm in a bad mood, I'm a really good writer, unfortunately. When I am sad or upset, and close the door and and it's very quiet and there's except for all of my feelings, which kind of fills up the And I kind of channel that, and into the words that I write until there's nothing else left (object thuds) What personal strength are you most reluctant to acknowledge, and how has it impacted your life? When you get diagnosed you don't get the luxury of ignoring your personal weaknesses, and also you really cling And so when you spend a large portion of your childhood unsuccessful you come to the conclusion And I have evidence to Because every time I've And I could pull out all the paperwork that says that I have. But when I started with Project and activities that I I saw areas in my life and without a whole lot of help. And it's really kind of of other opportunities I've been offered as a result of that. (object thuds) When did you truly feel celebrated? Probably when I was on Netflix and then we had the viewing (upbeat orchestral music) - [Speaker] Hello. - Hi, my name is Kaelynn. I'm 24 years old, and I'm single, and I'm looking for a boyfriend. To have such a large it was coworkers, it was casual friends, it was acquaintances. It was just a bunch of people who I knew. Everybody showed up, and I thought that that You know, the whole thing I realized just how capable So I, very quickly, in my own mind, became someone who thrives under pressure. What do we think about the fingerprint as the new symbol for autism? And the idea that I was not a thing that I It was maybe a thing that but I didn't think it was possible. But with the newfound knowledge of me thriving under pressure, I could pursue things that were difficult. Not only could I tolerate and I could be successful with them. Please bring light, bring (audience cheering)