greetings, friends, hello to all. In this video, we will not talk about knives, not about flashlights. And about pneumatic weapons, this is already such a small traditional column. We will summarize the results of the year and talk about the top pneumatic weapons, yes, about the weapons that you chose with your wallet, all the rifles that we have for you. let's show you, we analyzed what sold best in our country, some things are basically the same as last year, but some things really surprised us because we didn't think that what could be better than some things we are used to, well, in general, certain brands were included that were not there before and this has somewhat changed the situation in our top, but let's start with the cheapest segment, let's start with spring-action rifles, and the cheapest segment is headed by the beeman 2071, so to speak, this is a rifle that seems to have already been in the top, it's not. Last year there was a beeman jakal, I definitely remembered it this year, the 2071 rifle, well, first of all, it attracts with its cost, this 2071 beeman costs UAH 3,600 without any discounts, that is, for a rifle with a rifled barrel, made of steel, UAH 3,600, this is perhaps the cheapest entrance ticket in general, yes, it is perhaps the easiest option to arm someone with pneumatics so that he could shoot for himself, he had fun, he trained cheaper, unless there might be one of the new opims, well, Nina was not an optima, but she is, by the way. Maybe she just hasn't had time to become as popular. Despite all the Turkish attacks on the budget segment, the Chinese-American beeman everything is still on its pedestal, what interesting options does it have, well, first of all, it is practically a full-sized rifle, well, a classic layout, an absolutely classic layout, a classic example, an open sight with fiber optic inserts, which, by the way, is made of a hundred front sight has a red stock and the front sight has a steel bow fiber-optic insert front sight, we have two green inserts , and interestingly, the adjustment works with a click, even on such a cheap one, you still feel how you adjust . carrying, storage, rear sight, we have a steel one, adjustable in height, horizontally, vertically, also a standard base of 11 mm with a stopper, which, by the way, the safety actually works here, the usual trigger, here is a polymer plastic hook with some such banal notch, it is, of course, not adjustable, there are no settings, but this is a non-high-precision weapon this is prlinking, these are the first steps in bullet shooting, and well, when these steps can be taken for a fairly budget price, buy such a rifle and a pack of bullets. By the way, it does not require any expensive bullets. shoot some kind of bullets Well, JSB type, no one prevents you from trying some more expensive bullet if you want to cheaply clean the barrel But nevertheless, well, if the workhorse is a workhorse, you can play with optics with a collimator, try different bullets, teach even teenagers there, because the form factor is quite so average, I can't say what this is a straight children's-children's rifle, that is, an adult also has a place to put it, there is a way to see this sight and make a shot. That is, it is not completely tiny, not miniature. But nevertheless, even a teenager will be able to shoot recoil. There is no due to the fact that there is a rather modest compressor there, 14-15 Joules this is not the case when you will be wringing your hands there as a return So somehow it is so Bem [music] 2071 B mas in fact it is the king one of the two kings of such a medium-budget range And what is the fun What is the cost Remind them there I think they should be examined immediately with a longhorn, to be honest, because they are very Pony rifles and in the range of 6-8,000 they close this niche almost completely by themselves, what is interesting is that they appeared on the market almost at the same time, first the longhorn, then the mantis matis appeared - this is the same longhorn inside but here the bed is different, the compressor is the same but the barrel, the difference in the barrel is 51 cm, the length of the barrel is 45 cm, that is, the horn is 45 cm, the barrel is slightly shorter, but the energy is essentially the same, as shown by our shooting tests, our laggards are there by 50 m, which are quite impressive, so the difference in the length of the barrel, it is for the purchase of the results according to the chronograph, it does not matter at all, but it does matter when you reduce a rifle because the eyes are 5-6 cm. They are when you use the barrel as a lever, well, this is banal school physics and it is somewhat more difficult, i.e. if your physical data are not Olympic, then maybe a longer barrel will be easier for you to squeeze banally. When you introduce more of everything Well, I like the question that It is more convenient for you or what is more convenient for you, it is more convenient for me, it is more convenient, it is in fact a complete donhurna, like a pumped-up version. It is more ergonomic. But in fact it is difficult to compare them because they are different beds . numbers in general, what is sold more, I understand that they are both bestsellers, and the long hororn with an optical sight is sold more. Although it is more expensive . I'll beat you up, most of all the complaints about these rifles are about the sight. To be honest, the fact that the Chinese equip them with this optic is of course good. It's just a gift . 000 immediately with an optical sight, but it is not a primitive sight 432, in principle, there is a version of the longhorn, I will continue with a sight, but with a sight, the longhorn is more popular for some reason. Well, they are available in various configurations with a gas spring with an ordinary twist, but this optics should definitely not be considered as such a permanent type the scope that you will use. Keep in mind that considering that it is pneumatic , it can be said that it is of a high class . the Airmax series sights are very comfortable. They are not only based on our results. And in general, if you look at the thematic forums there or on YouTube, see what airorganers offer that they share their own experience, then the Hawk is always exactly the sight that is recommended for spring-piston pneumatics, this is already the case all over the world Damn. Well, it's also convenient. Well, over time, I'm still leaning more toward shorter barrels. Well, that's the difference. It's 5-6 cm. It still gives more ergonomics. It's somehow more comfortable when unloading, when turning with this rifle, after all. there is already a role here, a more convenient gunner, I like it more, yes, it's a plus when you're building Well, for example, in the winter period Well, it's better to have such a thing, it allows you to really hit and collect some grubs at 50 m, which is interesting. Despite the fact that this is a fairly budget segment, well, Manchesi Similarly, it is difficult to say anything new about them, this is not the first year they occupy top positions. If you want to enter pneumatics, then these two Malonhorn models are a win-win option. Well, they are definitely rifles that are sold by the thousands, just for your understanding, they are already for the first year excite the imagination of beginning yorganers Well, it's not for nothing that they are so popular, surely people know something, they tried our next candidate, this candidate will definitely excite the imagination of many Gary because [ music] got a scary place. there are already reviews, there are already a bunch of tests, already Half the Internet is full of these bimens, well, with such a number of rifles sold, she can't help but recommend a discussion like this, you know, which just boils on the Internet, so this thing, she, she passed this stage 10 years ago. Well, it's no secret to anyone that Opa Mod 25, which is located on the 125, which is currently on the table, this is actually the N 125, which was at the peak of popularity, according to our feelings , somewhere in the 12th, 13th year. This was my curse. At that time, the 125 rifles were not a benchmark for reliability, durability, and the quality of the materials, the quality of the heat treatment of the spring steel, especially these rifles. Well, they simply did not want to be sold. Because they were brought in broken every day . the fact that last time when we were filming the top, we mentioned Khan 125 and Grigoriy said, &quot;You will never remember this again. I mean, I don't know what has to happen to make it like this. And how are you going to do something? I'm going to sleep, maybe, Khatsan should stop by. Never again, I laughed so hard at that.&quot; that I knew something and here we are we are sitting with Khasan 125, which also became one of the top sellers this year. Yes, it is the 125 model, interestingly, the same 125 Khatsan, with which many started their pneumatic hobby, with which many galvanized buckets of Zhiguli hoods of various Soviet automobile industries were shot, and here he is again, please. at the end of 2023, it is in the top of the list of sales. The Immortal is just a rifle. It is heavier. It is heavier. Taking into account everything I said before that. An important addition must be made. The Turks still learned how to make this weapon, because for me personally, this is the Optima Mo 25 in the version with gas. with a spring and in the otaku from the TH box, the tamhol was a pleasant surprise for me. To be honest, because when I took it for a test, when I wrote the script, when they wrote the video, I, well, I expected that it would be the same house from which it is impossible to hit an apple there from 10 m practice she showed us that we didn't shoot our fingers, in fact we gathered a 10-meter pile there, practically bullet for bullet, we started shooting at 30, then at 50. I realized that from point-blank range with this rifle you can shoot at 50 m, almost at some kind of bottle cap, I'll say even more with us, we were in At that time, Pavlo was our videographer, and he hit a can with this rifle at a distance of 60 meters. He put it a little further to say that we were crazy, well, it's nothing to say, we were also hitting, but it's just that Pavlo hit almost the first time, that is, well on this Despite the fact that there is a ground of a certain type, it really works. We don't know if it really penetrates a steel bucket, we just didn't have time to test it, well, if this video counts, how good is it? No, we won't manipulate, just write in the comments. Do you want it? I'm sorry, it's a stupid test, it's a subjective assessment. Well, I think it's too much, but if you really want it, we'll think about it. How to do it will beat the topic with a bucket. It's worth saying that it's still not a strong budget. Yes, it's already more expensive, about 10,000. now this guy, but here they poured so many Joules, how many 32 on and 39 on the gas type for breaking, this is a cap, if in a longhorn of which type, well, the head is often enough 24, then here is 32. Well, just so you know, break some bottle with 30m, pierce some board with a 24 Joule normal bullet that's enough, this thing is already such a fanshooting, you know when you want to feel a direct return. When you want something straight, it will penetrate like no other rifle can. Smell this diesel, you know the power potion, it's a brutal thing, it's brutal, heavy, such a thick thing that hits you right in the head. it is really heavy, but its balance is due to the increased cylinder, it is significantly moved forward, it is also longer, it is really longer, and how much is 3200, somewhere it has more than 4 K 41 something like that, well, people like it, the main advantage is that you can buy 39 Joules without permission to come and buy and play with yourself in the country, shoot, punch buckets, boards, hoods, well, get pleasure, censhooting is, yes, this is one of those cases when it grows up, so to speak. Well, you can take it. I like archery and I had a story. with a pull force of 40 pounds despite the fact that he never shot anyone with a bow. You thought that I would take it for myself. He has never been so wrong in a bow. Well, when you shoot with a bow, you can't do that. Well, you have to feel it. And here you can if you can reduce all this, you know, like King Arthur's match, the ecalibr is in the stone, if you pull out this match, it's all yours, if you reduce this rifle, you're a royal, by the way, this is a sample of a pneumatic weapon that we have on the table now, it's a cool example of how Turks if they make something one model gun for many years They can still bring it to a state close to perfect look at this rifle it has an open sight which Much better than the Chinese they have a combination Steel bar which infection is nailed here in such a way that you you can't beat it, and it combines a beautiful viper picatinny and a metal stopper, a normal stopper, a semi-automatic safety, an adjustable trigger, which is also adjustable according to the force of pressure along the length of the stroke, that is, here is a normal trigger mechanism, a normal buttplate, an absolutely superior buttplate that is not found anywhere else and it is still adjustable in length, yes. By the way, yes, when I was selling themed weapons, I was often asked what else, after all, was Chinese or Turkish, because these are the two main You know these giants, the two whales on which the budget pneumatic segment is held, leaning on my experience, I still tried to advise the Chinese better that he will shoot for a ridiculously longer time, now I have the impression that if I were to be asked, like, what is the best thing to buy there for 8,000 norn with a gas spring of this top configuration with optics or add two and take this Turk I would not hesitate to say that it is still worth it And why not, why not Well, it is really better, more technologically, more innovative system that extinguishes recoil vibrations, it was banal sawed for a long time and they finished it, maybe some Turkish stubbornness worked, but they still finished the 125-model to some decent level, well, the result of shooting there at 60 m shows that it is not at all the Khatsan that everyone there is used to treating based on the experience of ten years ago Make han Great Again Something like [music] that finally bs in us yes Europe in the studio at one time about the bsa brand, Serhiy Shkabarda told us that a video was shot and he also examined this rifle, you need to understand that this is a rather experimental approach, the joke is what BS speedfire is when you work with an ordinary with the classic layout of the break, you bend the barrel into the receiver, insert the ball, close it and fire, here in this rifle you need to do one operation less, you bend the barrel, insert the magazine, and it is very similar to the magazines from PCP rifles bca, load the balls into the magazine, it shows you how many bullets you have at the moment what is in general is quite convenient, it shows you that you have run out of bullets there, it's cool, like, and you just refract, shoot, refract, shoot, you don't bother to stick the ball into the bullet receiver, it's worth reminding that they are engineers of the BS company, they actually did something that had already been invented, but they made it really work for the first time, but they brought it to a normal appearance, realistically, because the first spring-piston rifles with magazine feed, they were made in Germany, it seems that they were made back in the 30s, there was a 4.4-caliber Zul rifle under a spherical lead bullet, and there was a feed from the store from a box like this, but there was, well, no. It was difficult to call, you know , close to the ideal. a great solution for recreational shooting, when you are out there with a company shooting in nature, some kind of linking so that you don't send one ball at a time, and so on. You have two magazines in the set, and while someone is shooting, you can load the other magazine. They brought it to a relatively normal state. Well, let's be honest not only bsa They do this, we also have an optima with a similar one But to be honest, it's better polished here, what's interesting is that they made this system quite low-profile, so it takes up a certain amount of space, but it is compensated by the height of the mounting base from the sight to the slightly higher paddle butt Oh, it's a top but this is not something extremely uncomfortable. And in the case of the Hatsan, it's just like that, you know, the example is almost square in shape, there it is . quality, interestingly, they are made with almost the same approach that we are used to seeing in the manufacture of rifled weapons, well, in Europe, that is, here, look at the execution of this tree, all these notches are laser, all this processing is weapon steel, the barrel is cold-forged in a polymer skin with an aerodynamic compensator, that is, everything Everywhere you look, everything is done in a way that is qualitatively perfect , and well, the runner is different here, but the cost, but the cost is 16,000 per second, it is not cheap for a spring, it is not cheap, in fact, it is in about the same price range as Diana 350, yes, but it bypassed Diana, but it bypassed Diana and Diana's banality was already over And this remained bs speedfire in the top of the premium segment of spring-loaded pneumatics, this is a surprise to me because I considered this rifle to be a niche . To be honest, I didn't think that it would be a popular model, but as you can see, please, it is in the top, people. buy, people like it, and this indicates that it is a reliable system, which means, after all, the British have acquired, so to speak, It has been on the market for three years. Somewhere, this rifle is equipped with a scope, as we can see, with a 3.9 magnification change, and it looks good, if I'm not mistaken, even though it's not cheap. more reliable than what we see on budget Chinese ones, the sight there is more fake than real, here we see optics and mounts on which you can live with for a certain time Well, of course, this is not an ideal solution, but you can live with it, a sight of a completely different level than the one on the Chinese it is a little better, but we still emphasize that if you are buying a powerful refracting pneumatic, you should really think about buying a high-quality sight in a fairly powerful one. There are high hopes that it will shoot more accurately than longhorn mantises, after all, the quality of the trigger barrel here is much higher, an order of magnitude higher on the head Damn, and to be honest, this solution was very unexpected for me. The solution was in the configuration of this rifle with an aerodynamic compensator, because this is a real thing. Such a thing is found exclusively on PCP screws. This is perhaps the first model that is equipped with such a muzzle device, and this compensator spring is strange. that it is a high precision [music] rifle Last year it was my favorite Diana trtrey soutt which I bought for myself and which I really adore Unfortunately this year it's not Diana Ray Scout but it's also Diana and it's Diana chaser We have these models on the market seems to be five or six years old. I once even did a review of this rifle, the short joke is that it is brave, that is, you don't bother with breaking the barrel, if you didn't know, this equipment is like a pure pistol. And you can make it and carabiner, the main joke of the chaser, in our opinion, is that it has a reloading lever moved from the right side to the left, that it gives you time to have your finger on the trigger and you can shoot trivially faster. I don't know how relevant it is. but damn how can it be fun how can you not get tired of this thing you tell me it's just a delight at first sight when I saw this set it just has to be shown Along with the complete set it's basically a rifle a pistol you don't even know how to characterize it such a concept as a carbine pistol once was at the beginning of the century, I can trivially demonstrate, well, what can be done, how it can be reconstructed as a Lego constructor or for some beginner home hitmen or for, I don't know, a toy that can be given to a teenager so that he can practice shooting there with a pistol and with rifles at the same time, and you can actually be quite fond of this design, because you buy a base that comes with two barrels, one for a pistol, the other for a carbine. for which we immediately have a sound moderator in the kit, and this is not a prop, it is a real sound moderator, an active muffler that effectively muffles the volume of the shot, and considering that there is CO2, that it is not too loud in itself. Well, it is almost inaudible, so what they brought out the shutter handle on the left side is original, I agree with this, well, on the condition that you buy a magazine for it, which is sold separately, you can shoot quite quickly, as long as I've been waiting for a minute or so, I've already dropped the key twice, that's normal. When I clamp the knives in the sharpener, I think the key falls out five times. I clamp it, it was shorter. It was a carbine. Well, you can make a pistol from it. You don't want it to be without a silencer, please. You have to bend the silencer. I'll say more, you can remove these open sights and you can put something on the dovetail here, then I'll say more, you can unscrew this piece of crap And you can also put this thing. Well, I'm saying an example, and besides that you can put an example the place is Balotse, it's just surviol, you have some kind of cat, well, it's cool, it's a really cool Krakozabra, and she and the price is not very high, 5-600, she has a var, approximately. By the way, the descent is soft, the descent is cool. adjustable, all keys, all for seals, spare, really cool thing, very compact, and look what I like, yes, I like this Chaser Kit the most . well, with an example, you understand that it is much more stable shooting due to a short rifled barrel and a moder. You plus or minus normally lead a bullet . with the butt in the kit, it generally comes in a small box and a cover, if there is another compact sight on a quick-release mount, look, you can disassemble all this practically in one piece, which you can put into a large banana and take with you, for example, during a bicycle ride how much is a chaser imba, well, what is there to talk about? Well, it's a class of the type, well, you got it, assembled it, you can shoot like a type of pistol and it reloads pretty quickly, it's cool like a mini-vinika, the store, we haven't told you about the stores yet . I will buy it in the set, it is not there for some reason. Well, nevertheless, there is such an opportunity, and it is normally made, it is metal. I like it very much, I am just wondering how it was thought of. Did you notice this bullshit, what is there? you put it in and it's easier for you to remove it from the fixation it's damn simple it's such a small thing actually, well, it's a cool long s has an intermediate clutch with such a microviver for one section Well, I don't know Nafig, it's actually a bipod bipod Why not pretend to be a chaser with bipods 45 cm on a different barrel of 7.5 Joules, what prevents you from putting a bipod optic and shooting at 20 meters, assemble a stove in the yard? Well, why not, and why can you? - This is a classic trail scout - this is a classic layout, it is bigger and yes, it is fun, but it is much more interesting in my opinion, and it is much more compact here, well, compactness just totally prevails . and under the long barrel, under the gun itself, under the stores, which you will buy later, as an example, you can throw balloons into the kulkids, some Oh, that's banal, well, it's convenient to carry, it's cheaper, well, we sat down and went, the only thing is that Well, of course, the ergonomics is like that. It's a bit unprofessional, it's all miniature and it's as if it was made under there are nuances for people with long arms, for example, for Grisha. Well, I still don't like the type. For its cost, I can forgive him for this ergonomics, but if you are right before King Kong, then your finger simply won't fit here, that is, there is a lot Oh yeah, they're twisted. Maybe a little bit, yeah, yeah, that's the impression you're aiming at us from a sewer, APS with this, with a holster, that's something like that, it's cool, so that you don't like the chaser Well, you have to really dislike it, it seemed like a child's toy but you're healthy, Uncle, would you like to play around with the barrel, put something there, remove something, it gives you freedom for experiments, two barrels - it's very cool, and also the possibility of all this tuning I like it very much [music] [applause] bman chf 2 the most budget rush we have it in stock and which top one is the cheapest [music] 9700, it costs even cheaper, the only thing is that in the discount A we already talked about B Well, and in the last top The fact is that what is the plus point of the pispihi, you don't break the barrel at all You don't steam with with C2 canisters, you blew it with a simple pump, well, either by hand or from a gas station, and you don't get 100 shots. And it's convenient, it's convenient. The question is, How can it be implemented? If you want to implement it very cheaply, it will be implemented, well, not perfectly, but it will work. that this bman is kind of bad, my tongue won't come back because Well, it's really cheap, it shoots normally, the question is basically about some of these little things like, oh, the fuse Well, damn, the Chinese culture of production, the fuse is here Well, let's say Yes, it reminds me of some kind of button on some teapot or something, it is not perfect, to put it mildly, it is not perfect, it seems that it cannot be adjusted, the fuse, oh, I'm a trigger, I'm sorry, I just immediately looked at the trigger, the trigger is not adjustable, I'm still, frankly, surprised that we have now this is my second one because I expected it to be a Dana stormrider, but it is sold in large quantities, people chose this thing with their wallets. I shot it, I have something to compare it with, the only thing I can say is that it is not the most comfortable, but it works, I can say that it shoots inaccurately I wouldn't say that it's inaccurate, it's normal and quite accurate. It's quite accurate. It's a question of comfort. It's really a question of comfort. The Chinese managed to make a full-size PCP rifle, not a child's one, just a big one, which is cheaper than the Turkish hsan 125 rifle. That is, it is a competitive rifle that competes with Turkish and Chinese rifles with Well and that's why they sacrificed some ergonomic things, well, and the nuances there according to my performance, well, there is no mod, instead of it, a hard-mounted stunner, which is badly needed here, an open sight, it's good that at least there is a dovetail, it's possible to dovetail, the only thing is that there is no stopper, but on the other hand, it's a PCP, it's possible here and you don't need to, but there is a store here, it is included in the kit, yes, there is definitely a store in the kit , it already adds power, and it is already a good descent. well, it's cool, actually, I don't know. Well, to be honest, I'm not a fan of this model, but I don't really like it, and it's possible to have a stage one, and the descent is like that, well, you can live with it, but it's not a high-precision weapon, if among our viewers there are owners of this biman, we I would really like to hear your comments about it. Well, it seems to me that I can be biased about it. It can, in principle, since it is a PCP rifle. Let it be straight-shooting, but it is a PCP. It can fire at budget breaks, and for everything, that's how you shoot it the fastest. in fact, the essence of PCP is that you don't need to cock the barrel every time you have a store supply, well, there are a number of advantages that definitely put it in the category of an interesting weapon if compared with fractures if you have UAH 10,000 in your pocket and you really want an air rifle it makes sense to think about whether to take a break or still buy this thing, but you 100% need to understand that in addition to the weapon itself, you will at least need a pump to blow it here, these 200 atmospheres from which it is fed Well, pumping PCP manually with a pump is another element physical education, it perfectly compensates for the lack of the need to erect the barrel, yes, this is super, this is One Love, this is already something that I still like a little, but I will say sometimes I think about whether I like the Raptor or this thing better. Well, okay, Raptor, Raptor, Raptor, Raptor - it is, but the price of the question is so much tempts Okay, now we have in our hands a Cossack from the Kharkiv brand of weapons, that is, it is already made in Ukraine, unlike these previous rifles, not the Turks, not the Chinese, it is our compatriots who make otaku weapons, which is not that simple, it is an order of magnitude higher in class than all what we were looking at before this is a PCP rifle with a bullpack bullp reducer on a PCP rifle with a barrel of 55 cm 290 cubic cmt in it engine volume tank volume resource about 70 shots on a gear rifle at a stable speed adjustable descent integrated What is the starting speed of the sanmoderator 35 J is very weak in fact. That is, it seems to me that, judging by the way they made it, the design of this rifle is no longer the first generation of the Cossack . Well, of course, they were inspired by the raptor-like Cossack, the Cricket Raptor, that's where the design went, we can see the immediately mounted integrated Picatinny rail and two auxiliary ones. That is, you can play there not only the optical sight , but also some additional equipment. only fantasy, you are not limited by the number, you know what I like here, if you don't mind, here is a leather insert in place. leather, and here is leather, wood, leather, well, in general, people thought about Romy, about the convenience of the shooter in the raptor, the cocking lever is located here in the weapon, it is located here, and Well, personally, for me, it is somehow more convenient, for example, you fired a shot and back to the raptor, it is here, here it is located. Well I don't know Me personally Sorry the shot and the descent here is cool this thing I really like its cost 35,000 it's not cheap for an airgun but it gives you a reason to think if you should get a Raptor really because well it's a different league it's just a reducer it's The gearbox is high-quality. Everything is done, but really, a lot of things have been thought out here. The weapons company claims that this rifle at 30 meters gives a cross-sectional dispersion of no more than 2 cm. It's amazing. It's not bad. The Raptor can be used at 10m, 30m, well, from the Raptor, I know people shoot matches at 40m. it is real, it is quite real, this rifle is obvious that they are trying to compete with the raptor and the price, that is, the person for whom the price of the raptor is 50-60,000, like 1,000 dollars. she makes you seriously think about whether it's worth it if you can, it's such a temptation, just if you want to come somewhere for a little bit. A strange story with this moderator . it has cameras, but on top of it there is also a thread on which you can put an additional nozzle. That is, it is like a cover, yes, it is a mod cover with a moderator. Well, it will turn off the sound, but if this volume is not enough for you, you can attach another mod to the surface. Well, it's cool yes What is the possibility to additionally install a shorter great alternative to raptor if Well you lack 500 bucks and you want to enter this league I don't know what I I I'm glad that there's an alternative Well it's cool when there's competition it's cool It's cool that it is a domestic brand, that it is made of high quality, I won't say, to be honest, that it directly competes with the Raptor, but for its money It is a beautiful device directly Well, I really like this thing [music] , if the beams do not excite the fantasies of young erganers, then these things already excite My fantasy is Well, I took it as a mechhatorhanzo, it's straight, well, I don't know about the Raptor, it's hard to add something new. It's the same Raptor that was on the first place of the last top, it didn't go anywhere during this year, no one did better than Raptor HP High Power, it's HP long High Power is HP long mlock highp And yes llock, that's why I don't know the same Raptor from which you can shoot at 300 m in caliber 4.5 52 jl it seems. That is, it is the coolest rifle of all that can be purchased without a permit in caliber 4.5 it's so cool that it's in Ukraine and no one close to it in Ukraine makes such things, well, maybe they make similar things in single copies, or maybe even cooler, but so that it's mass-produced, well, please show us a long time, a long time, show us such a manufacturer Raptor Here you go please, he is there, you come, you have enough money, you buy without any permission, and in fact you have a high point pneumatic, what is the maximum distance? Well, someone of your acquaintances hit some such a small object ra 300 m 300 m PCP OH And last year We have we just ran out of bullets for this thing and now we already have normal bullets, by the way, they say that the pdr driver is not the best choice in general, but there are already heavy 4.5 mm bullets for powerful pneumatics, which is very pleasing, a little repulsive is that you have to mess with it in in terms of settings, that is, these rifles are 52 gauge, in order to stabilize the bullet, you need to select some slugs to play with. Well, this does not stop people who buy these things, if you do not want to bother a lot, then you can take a regular Raptor, which is factory-configured for the 67th. Yes, they are Raptors. I don't know this model, this is the vision of the company, before that, what should it look like? Well, a modern PCP in a bullpub layout is a short one, that is, a copy act version in my opinion. That 's what it's called. There are standard ones. I don't remember their generation. Yes, it is also with milk before that. In my opinion, there was nothing or picatinny or nothing. In my opinion, there was nothing. There was nothing. It's cool. Well, they are developing, and the bar, you see 20 mo immediately with with a slope, here it is, that is, it still has a previous slope to compensate for the height, damn, we talked so much about the chaser and we just got the Raptor, it's just as if the gift of speech was taken away from us, look first, 50 59 cm barrel barrel or or shit, that is, far from some nameless manufacturers barrels 274 seems to be cubic meters Sorry, I wonder if it is true or not 374 damn 370 374 cm tank volume and number of shots What you can do with one blow it is already counted in the hundreds, that is, the autonomy that no other rifle on the market can reach so far does not shine more energy bigger the volume of the tank means a greater number of shots. I think it will also be on top next year, if the Raptor company does not come up with something even more powerful, it is the king of pneumatics, the king of PCP, something . he appeared there more than 10 years ago, so he still seems to me to be in everyone's ears, everyone who is interested in pneumatics, everyone dreams of the Raptor. they stand still and do not move anywhere, there are some things, well, they are changing, we did not expect that the Optima type would displace other rifles, the Cossack was not, it seems, in the past top peregrine falcon No, it was not, by the way, it is surprising that the peregrine falcon did not enter the top, the peregrine falcon is more expensive, well, I was upset that the trail the scout is now less fashionable than the chaser, which displaced the mink. Oh Tim, but some things like the Well remain fashionable, like the longhorn mass. Well, the Raptor, of course. So, if you want to enter the world of pneumatics, use the promo code . somehow I don't know Where to put it now Don't worry No thank you for watching Thank you for watching to the end I hope you were interested dad All bye Y