Welcome aboard. Our nose is cold. Our a stern conversion on a Royal Canadian We're in Iraq, just Northwest of Baghdad, over the first launch of the day from the USS Theodore We have a wingman on our right wing. We're NATO tanker, waiting for the Boom Once cleared for pre-contact, we're going to our probe both vertically and horizontally pre-contact, we'll report &quot;pre-contact&quot; with the A little left wing dip...a little Once established in pre-contact, we wiggle the best we can. We take a breath and then five knots of closure, so that the probe will hit Anything faster than that could risk that it'll send a sine wave all the way then all the way back, potentially Once established in the drogue, we'll push the drogue on the black hose for a judge of distance. We'll do which you can't quite make out with the camera But today we've got a problem. Actually, we've is there's a little bit of streaming fuel see me reach down on my right side and turn the will illuminate, and I'll punch that out, and appears on the bottom left of the left DDI. The The Boom Operator has told us that we've he's directed us to disconnect on the starboard So, as we back out both my EWO and I are looking divert is, and trying to figure out how much the decision to go somewhere else and land, Luckily, today we've got plenty of gas it's not minutes, so we can hang out before we need to make look over my left shoulder now as the Super Hornet now done tanking and is departing high and to the I'm trying to engage with the right drogue the left drogue on the left wing is now open. drogue, I can see that the drogue is starting Not a huge deal. I'm going to set ourselves up in a trying to get my probe laterally and vertically run for it. However, you can see now that the Now I'm getting a little bit concerned play for it, and potentially hit the drogue with talked about earlier, could be a factor. It could so I know I've got plenty of gas. I've got for it, so I'm just going to hang out and see Now unfortunately the tanker is going to make the tanker starts to turn the drogue is going to move around until it finds its new relative wind, for the drogue to relatively stabilize, while and then hold it there...before the tanker pilot pilot is rolling out, that's going to be super tough, So I'm clear for contact. I'm hanging out behind find a good spot, trying to wiggle my fingers a little play for it...a little more power. The pull a little bit of power. I'm going to drift aft I try to push forward with just a little Nope, it's not going to work, so I'm going to back wait a couple of potatoes. As a technique, or elevator and then rudder pedals as your probe from left to right, and we need that the probe will be displaced both up and to the right... and vertically at the same time. So for those last be made, it's going to be mostly just longitudinal So you'll see the tanker is out of the turn now. The than it was before...making a play for it... getting up feel unsafe. I'm going to back out. Luckily, it's a radome or rub on the nose of the aircraft, it's concern is that there's an AOA probe just below my idea to design...and if the basket gets caught on At this point for whatever reason, I start looking that was on the left wing is now gone. I noticed moving nearly as much as the right wing drogue the port side, and then go to pre-contact over and accommodating and cleared me to pre-contact on the lefthand side, going to pre-contact, getting ready rules apply here. I'm going to set myself up about and try to get that three to five knots starting to get a little bit frustrated. I've been I'm tactically dehydrated, and now I'm having a a left-hand turn here....now, trying to find that clear air, but the air that wasn't quite as choppy as can feel that the jet is kind of...that his aircraft deal. I still have about another 10 or 15 minutes decision to divert, so I'm just hanging out, trying my toes...stabilize...a little bit of power. Not quite Hang on...and back out a little bit. Same kind of rules apply here. There's to stabilize and try to push it up, damage the aircraft, but just trying Nice solid pre-contact position, and [I] start pilot rolls out. He rolls out, and as soon you see that the drogue moves a little It will stabilize. Looks like he's going back a The drogue is &quot;stabilizing-ish&quot;, moving It's super do-able...let's see...pushing it up, and not Pushing it up...and Ah! Got it! Okay, no sine wave. Good-to-go. You can see the white stripe near the MIPRS pod at the very end. I'm going to push that up I look over my right side and now they're clearing the righthand side of the aircraft. So I'm in. I'm bottom left corner [of the cockpit], making sure that we're getting taking gas. Everything's good. The tanker is rolling So the most important thing is that we don't biggest thing that's going to cause that is if and at the very end, we talked about how there's the hose, there's a stripe that's close to the It's on the aircraft wing, and we call it MPRS. refueling system. Now we look at the white stripe green light and we're getting good fuel flow, the MIPRS pod) is what we want to hold. So I'm not laterally getting stretched out to the right from the white stripe closest to the MIPRS pod Now when the tanker goes in a turn there's a at it, is the tanker's wings are my new horizon, new horizon. So, if the tanker rolls off on a little doing here, just to avoid weather. I'm just going look like the new horizon. And then he rolls You kind of...over time, figure out a way to case, it looks like he's rolling Holding it! Holding it. Not a big deal. Just wiggling Not a big deal. Just making sure Making sure that I'm not accidentally and just using the tanker's wings as my new So we're in an EA-18G, which is basically an From a system's perspective, it's the same airplane. the same NATOPS manual. It's exactly the same; that have been modified to make it an electronic A Growler, for instance, doesn't have a gun, gun would be on an F/A-18 Echo or Foxtrot) we're computer called the &quot;EAU&quot;... the Electronic electronic systems on the aircraft specifically, There's some other receivers on t he aircraft the airplane. The Growler's mission is to when appropriate to put tron's downrange to confuse the enemy, who's using those signals The Growler can carry a lot of gas. It's fitted three, and four, and two internal wing tanks, Tanks two and three are engine feed tanks, while tanks Internally, the Growler can carry around combat configuration, however, we're carrying three an AAGRM (missile), and an AIM-120 missile as on board. Each fuel tank is about 480 gallons So quick math around 13.9 plus 6.4 is around 20.3 As far as refueling goes, and speeds of refueling go, the Growler can only take gas up to around gas that we can take quickly. Realistically the and as the Growler gets closer to getting full , then the amount of gas they can take at any given So in this case, looking at our EFD, it looks are almost full the external tanks are empty, so around seven to eight thousand pounds. It's gonna A lot of my viewers have asked about my helmet. So my helmet has evolved over the years. For a common to get your helmet changed or the decals to a new squadron. Now, Navy regulations say that so the helmet...people think there's cracks at all in my helmet. What it is...it's a hard helmet that looks a lot like a motorcycle helmet, and the outside is covered with strips... My helmet's got a couple things on it at this time, videos. At the time, I had the lightning bolts on you'll see those on the top. On the back, you'll of above &quot;Pail&quot; on the right hand side. The cougar I was flying with the VAQ Squadron, VAQ-139. They helmet. I was proud to fly with it. And then last I was the CAG-17 EWO or Electronic Warfare Officer the Commander of the Air Group's staff and be DCAG had about anything electronic attack. And, VAQ Squadron and make sure that...in this case it was then I worked very closely with their Operations A funny story about the patch or the logo for CAG-17. I was watching Top Gun Maverick with my kids recently, and I noticed at the very beginning of Maverick opens his locker in his hangar bay, he'll CAG-17 patch (exactly the same logo that's on the Anyway, let's take a sec here to talk about the the tanker. When we're satisfied, we're going to complete&quot;, and we're going to request disconnect. to do is we try to leave the drogue where we which means we're going to make sure that the not offset to the right or to the left laterally. so that when we slowly pull away, the drogue one direction or the other, due to the relative or get stuck on the AO probe, like we talked about just a little bit. We're going to pull a little So, now it's time to disconnect. We pull a walking pace, careful not to let the As we work our way back, we put our probe right, and work well-behind the tanker and Well guys, it's been a long day we still before we can work our way back to the I hope you enjoyed the ride along. If you enjoyed Buy me a beer if you'd like. The details are in this point. I appreciate your continued support