In 2013, SpaceX announced that they were going To add to the complexity of this idea, they in the middle of the ocean. Something like this had never been done before But if it was successful, it would be a massive So, SpaceX began experimenting with various After a couple of years and many explosions, 5 years on from that historic first landing, With so many launches nowadays, SpaceX have and saved themselves a lot of money. Each time a Falcon 9 is reflown, they save In just the last five years, this has saved To this day, SpaceX is the only company that But now they are focusing their efforts on Those of us that have followed the Starship The recent SN8 test flight was one of the But it showed that their ambitious plans for After all of the crazy things SpaceX have things couldn't get any crazier. Until this. On Twitter, Elon casually announced a new But the plan isn't to "land" Super Heavy Instead, SpaceX wants to catch it out of the launch mount. AIRPLANE: It's an entirely different kind of flying, altogether. AIRPLANE: It's an entirely different kind of flying. Although this sounds like another crazy Elon consider catching rockets out of the sky. Rocketlab is planning on catching their Electron Back in the 60's, NASA considered catching helicopter with rotor blades over 100 meters In comparison, SpaceX's idea sounds a little But before we look into how and why SpaceX to thank Private Internet Access for supporting We have all been using the internet for a well... you have a lot to catch up on. But many people still don't know how a VPN Private Internet Access is the leading no-log in over 70 countries. No matter what platform or device you use, If you want to unblock streaming services Private Internet Access will do that for you. This will give you access to all of the shows Their servers are safe and secure and by using spammers and hackers. This is more important than ever, now that To support Primal Space and secure your data, This will give you 2 years of complete access You'll also get an extra 3 months for free! There's multiple payment options and a 30 Protect your internet data today by using So we have established how SpaceX are going But in order to know why, we need to understand Starship consists of two stages: the booster stage which is just called Starship. Super Heavy lifts the 2nd stage out of the does the rest of the work to get into orbit. After separating, Super Heavy comes back down For Starship, the aim is to travel to the In order to achieve this, SpaceX will use On top of this, SpaceX also wants to use Starship This means Starship will need to perform multiple The original plan for Super Heavy was to land instantly ready for its next flight. Although this would have many benefits, it than SpaceX have shown with their Falcon 9 So, SpaceX moved to the idea of landing Super to lift it onto the launch mount. This would require at least six extremely to handle the landing. But this is where the problems come in. For the Falcon 9 landings, the booster needs hangar where many components are replaced One of the most critical parts in their refurbishment All of this takes an enormous amount of time Removing the legs from the design completely, but it would also save an incredible amount Every kilogram of mass saved, will allow the With 6 legs on the Super Heavy, the overall of the entire booster upon landing. But without any legs, SpaceX's only option This will still require a great amount of need to hit its marks almost perfectly. One of the big advantages Super Heavy has Even with just one engine firing, the Falcon a suicide burn. This involves firing its engine at just the to zero the moment it touches the ground. Since Super Heavy has more engines than the This will allow it to hover over the pad and SpaceX will try to catch the booster on its to the launch tower. As Super Heavy comes into land, it will thread they retract inwards and lock into place. One of the key points about this idea is that will need to take the load of the entire booster. At first, this seems like an incredible amount But since they are designed to handle a large extremely strong in this direction. Despite this unique method of landing, it the last bit of energy and bring the booster Normally this shock absorption would be handled On the Falcon 9, the landing legs consist of telescopic tubes that are filled with compressed helium. As the legs fold in on themselves, the compressed The main thing here is that the shock absorption This will reduce the amount of stress on the SpaceX will likely use a similar system of Another theory is that they could use a cable on aircraft carriers. This system involves multiple steel ropes to be caught by the tailhook of an aircraft. As the hook connects with the wires, the energy the deck, quickly bringing it to a halt. Taking all of this away from the rocket and allow Super Heavy to be as light as possible, But weight saving is only part of the puzzle. The real benefit here is the ability to rapidly If it can be immediately lowered onto the can be secured, detanked and inspected for After all, the detanking process is especially contain excess methane after it lands. Methane isn't allowed to be vented into leftovers back into the tank farm for it to So although we might have to wait a few more it's inspiring to see them taking on these When SpaceX landed their first booster 5 years advanced the world of spaceflight massively. No matter what happens, it's clear that If you'd like to support Primal Space, consider input on each video and get exclusive access Thank you very much for watching and I'll