Imagine this scenario: You have a diesel-powered generator on a stand Run a wire from the energized slot of an outlet connect anything to the ground or neutral slots. Does current flow from the energized wire into the your mental model of what the earth represents of a circuit is just an abstraction of some really even more true on the grand scale of the power and misunderstood aspects of the grid, so you For example, if I run a wire from the nothing happens. But, when an energized power line falls from a the ground then. Cloud-to-ground lightning strikes earth, but my little thought experiment of a won't create any current at all. I'll explain ground is just this magical symbol that hangs off an electrical circuit and the ground serve quite some demonstrations set up in the studio to help grid in a whole new way after this, but just and this is Practical Engineering. In today's Why do we ground electrical circuits in the that question is to show you what happens when we electrical code, it might surprise you that it's can even be beneficial. After all, lots of to the ground, even if part of the circuit that term really just refers to a common reference one thing that can be confusing about voltage: it or location, but the difference in electrical we pick a common reference point, assume it and call it ground, even if there's no reference low voltage devices (like battery powered components on the circuit board and the but that's not true for high voltage systems This is a diagram of a typical power system on the left. When a magnetic field rotates past the conductors, and (very generally) this is the backbone of most electric grids today. Look three main conductors that (again, very generally) here is a connection to ground. Let me put another voltage. You can see our three conductors and they have the same phase-to-ground in this example, that connection to the ground electromagnetic fields of the alternating Watch what happens during a ground fault. a power line or a conductor being blown other number of problems that lead to a all of the sudden, that weak coupling force is overpowered, and all the phases experience a the phase-to-phase voltages don't change. power system usually doesn't cause any immediate loads on the system don't really care about hooked up between phases. This is one benefit it can keep working even during a ground fault. In the example I showed, the phase-to-ground rise to almost twice what they would be in a Higher voltage requires more insulation which lines where insulation means literally holding other and the ground, those costs can add up for an electrical engineer, but in practice, can be a lot more expensive (a problem anyone Look back at our diagram and you can see ground potential. In other words, their and when you have zero voltage, you also have the conductor into the ground. Or at least not coupling between the unfaulted conductors but it's not much. And that matters would protect a system from a problem (like If you know much about wiring in buildings, you toaster with a metal case. It could be any normal conditions, current flows from the live the neutral wire to return to the grid, completing the toaster, the live or energized side of with that metal case, making it energized too. shock someone who touches the case. So, many attached to the housing, giving the current a resistance means lots of current will flow, And, it's not just the breakers in your house that called relays, that monitor parts of the power tell the difference between normal electrical do that is make sure the fault current is much the damaged toaster, that fault current flowed is actually just a parallel wire that connects in the case of substations and transmission lines, Let's look back at the diagram and convert it to ground at the generator, things don't look as soon as you add a phase-to-ground short First, the other phases don't experience a But secondly, there's now a path for fault to the source. And that's the answer to electrical current (in nearly all cases) doesn't The ground is really just another wire. Although I have a narrow acrylic box full of dry sand. I put a copper rod into the sand on either with a lightbulb so that the current has to flow When I turn on the switch, nothing happens. insulator. In fact, soil and rock vary widely The resistivity changes with soil and moisture content. For example, let's try to Still nothing. Even completely saturating the You can barely see anything in the lightbulb, but Soil resistivity also changes with which is why I'm having trouble getting any aren't enough electrolytes. Even with a layer of much current at all. If I add just a little immediately you see that the resistivity And if I let that salt water soak into the soil, This resistivity of soil to conduct current but what it lacks in conductivity, it current flowing from a ground electrode into the each representing a drop in voltage between the shell has more surface area for current to flow there's practically no resistance at the shells are spaced tightly together toward to the resistance of the soil, and it can Here's a little demonstration I This is a length of nichrome wire connected in between to limit the current. When I flip the simulating a ground fault. This length of NiChrome the soil would be in a ground fault condition. That means the electric potential along can show that just by measuring the voltage Remember that voltage is the difference or in the case of Zap McBodySlam here, wire, his legs are are at two different human bodies are better conductors than the creates a voltage that drives current up into I just have that voltage turning on a little and how well Zap is insulated from it, this death. In fact, power line technicans are often fault to reduce the chance of a step potential. Similarly, power technicians often come equipment regularly. So, if a ground and the resistance of the grounding system the ground and the metal case, again creating the called touch potential. The engineers and transmission lines have to consider what withstood by a person and design grounding systems For example, most substations are equipped not grid of buried conductors to minimize resistance that many substations use crushed rock as the don't like to mow the grass. It's because the doesn't conduct electricity well and But, not all power systems use the ground just the earth is actually the primary return path the neutral line. Electrical distribution or SWER are used in a few places around the areas. Using the earth as a return path can save but of course there are safety Similarly, there are some high voltage use direct current (like a battery) instead these systems for another day, because there is I did want to mention them here, because many of grounding systems. Although most High Voltage DC and negative), some only use one with the return even the bipolar lines often include ground return during and outage or emergency the Pacific DC Intertie that carries power has elaborate grounding systems at both ends. in a ring with a circumference of 2 miles or system consists of huge electrodes submerged Unlike AC return currents that generally follow DC currents can flow through the entire earth. In That does mean they're susceptible to some magnetic fields that can affect compass salmon and eels. In ocean electrodes, breaking down seawater into toxic chemicals electrical currents in the ground can flow causing them to corrode. This is also a the rail as a return path. You may have heard that but that's not really true. Electricity takes relative conductivity. So, even though a big steel return current from traction motors can and does pipelines, and occasionally interfering I've conveniently left out lightning Unlike a conventional circuit where is a type of static electricity. And unlike fault current that the current from a lightning strike really does out of the ground and into the atmosphere, by the movement of air or water... or something well. But an additional and vital reason if lightning strikes, that current has a it might arc across gaps or build up charge in It's not just lighting, ground faults, and circuit of other natural mechanisms cause current to changes in earth's magnetic field, and more. These and they intermingle below the surface with A common question I get about the electrical plant serves a city or a building. It's kind oxygen that you breath. Technically, it's more but that's not quite how it works. Power it's called the grid in the first place - and with the difference in potential. And the ground draw lines of current flow between sources and The truth of how current flows in the ground it all kind of mixes together down there to some complicated. Current doesn't flow to the ground; is electricity moving into the ground from an that conductor and see what's happening. For the generator, in either case, a simple coil of out of the coil has to be equal to the electrical coming from one of the other phases, a neutral I hope you've noticed some improvements in two, and that's all due to the help I have making Engineering team was in town, and rather than take If you have seen my other videos, you the sponsor of this video, who deliver Sometimes it takes a whole team of people and HelloFresh makes it so and shopping for every meal and They have a huge variety of recipes, vegetarian, plus quick and easy But for as much convenience as HelloFresh is just get us all in the kitchen, having take out the tedium of cooking and makes If you want to try it yourself, they have an the channel. Go to HelloFresh dot com and use PLUS free shipping! Just give it a shot and HelloFresh.com and use code 50Practical. Thank