So, I got to be honest, gents, I was very hesitant the subject matter a bit embarrassing. And second, somehow the other day, I ended up going down and pornography. This led to another video about... into it. Initially, it starts off as a coping turn to when they are stressed out. Now, the to negatively affect their day-to-day life. you run off to a pleasurable escape. So, I'm it hits me. I have fallen into this trap. Now, not going to go into the details. You're smart say that I was addicted, but I have used it you guys have gone through worse. But, the reason the way I address the problem is a bit unique. In fact, like 2,000 years old school. You see, are a lot of them, but, no, seriously, I have years old. I was just obsessed with with reading so, I studied and read Aristotle, Socrates, the Buddha, Confucius, Seneca, Marcus Aurelius. in my full noble years gave me uncommon but that most people didn't seem to know how to talk about today's sponsor, BetterHelp. And, gents, in case you didn't know, BetterHelp is the world's largest therapist service and it's 100% online. With BetterHelp, and licensed therapists that can help you with gents, I have used their services. Because, ups and downs of life, I've got issues. I have companies. Gents, I can tell you from experience gents, when you need help, you want to check out Betterhelp because they make it easy. The way you answer a few questions about your preferences wants to match you with the right therapist can talk to your therapist however you feel call. On top of that, you can message your therapist at your convenience. Oh, and if for any reason you can switch to another therapist at no cost. the same professionalism. get the same quality that's custom picked for you, plus more scheduling, get started, gents, go to betterhelp.com slash slash real men, real style. And like always, today's video. This is the best deal on the So, why desexualize the brain? Why does it even matter? I've actually got a whole list right here Improve mental clarity, enhanced productivity, better emotional regulation, healthier relationships, increased self-control. It's actually that last one that for me is the big one. Since I can remember as a young man, I just had a stra - I always thought of sex. You know, people talk about guys think about sex every ten seconds. For me, it seemed like every other sex. Okay, maybe it wasn't remember starting to think and reading actually they talked about like why are we such slaves about you, but I don't want to be a slave to this. I think it was Victor Hugo talked about his 80s. And it was a constant struggle especially be successful. want to get things done. A lot about how you've got to conquer or at least much go out every night and try to get a wife I've got a more personal reason for wanting because he couldn't keep it in his pants. He my grandmother because he couldn't do the same the Philippines. Yeah, he was a merchant marine we had all of all these Filipinos show up and know about. It's a crazy story. I will save the old school tactics I use to desexualize of the problem. You know, nobody wants to admit shouldn't when it comes to pornography. But, I realized, you know what? I am, you know, I the realization that I was coping. I like that a different view of addiction. I never going an addict. And that's a problem. If you can't coping is a lot softer of a word especially great success are going after things. And I time coping and seeking pleasure and just, you other things in my life. It's also important was actually really interesting just watching the brain is shaped. I was doing a lot of this And all of a sudden, I realized, you know, we're the brain, and you realize, wait a minute, like and, you know, it makes sense because it's very the brain is rewiring itself to basically expect out, you all of a sudden start running towards happening as it becomes a habit, all of a sudden, the first tactic is to commit to a life of eunemonia. don't even know what that word means. So, let to a life of hedonism. Now, most of us understand pleasures. And it's not a controversial philosophy. seems like they're often saying, go and do everything. after your happiness. any serious student of have everything. And if you pursue happiness, is the byproduct of satisfaction. And satisfaction, in effort, of hard work, where the reward is you get to. So, eudaimonia is a pursuit of a of arite, virtue. moral excellence, rational and community engagement, and long-term perspective. is this. I felt at an early age I committed here for a bigger purpose. And being a slave that is not me. All right. So, I realized my myself and who I want to be, so I needed to Homer's Odyssey. In particular, let's look at known as the Ulysses Pact. Basically, he wanted be too much, so he set up systems so that he of his sailors, he had them put wax in their didn't hear them and they didn't jump off the hand, he didn't fit put anything in his ears, despite all the screams and yelling, they knew that danger zone. Basically, he set things up So, what actions did I take to leverage the I was going to be home and I take my daughters in the office by 8. I just don't have time now staying in the office later and let's just say night, probably, you know, I didn't need to up so I've got other people coming in my office, family members that are coming in and now doing a little bit of a little bit of a little bit because I know people are going to be around, When you've got a group of people in your place, guys that have set up website blogs, they have find a way to have a contract set so that you got discipline and routine. This one actually me knows I was in the military. My point is busy, every is scheduled, guess what? I'm not any idle time. So, I realized, okay, I need to have a purpose Tuesdays or meeting days pretty are internal planning days. In fact, I try to or I travel to a coffee shop and I just simply and Thursdays are filming days. In addition, so that, you know, just people are around. I've done. If you grew up Christian, you probably Now, I don't know if I would 100% agree with you got everything planned out, you can schedule have time for a coping mechanism. Memento mori, to Seneca. But, it is, you know, a lot of people even like to think about death. But, if you that there are so many - when we realized how much little - how little time we have. around the office, these constant reminders of how little time we have. And, how about, we can attribute that one to Plato. He talked about surrounding yourself with like-minded to be a physical community, it can be an online and other platforms. But, when you've got like-minded you accountable. It's, again, there are different powerful when you surround yourself with the staying busy, your mind is going and you're you're not falling into the over sexualization and meditation. Now, this story is probably a young lieutenant in Pensacola, there was this everywhere and there weren't. So, I'm like, in college. So, I went and took some classes of the classes I took was meditation. I studied actually did get pretty lucky the importance do, but as soon as something comes into the you just go in there and you grab it, you look then you place it back over where it needs to that thought and that idea. And that has worked woman, you just acknowledge, wow, there's a I would love to meet and talk with her and maybe I've got other places to be and other things. it, instead of trying to repress these thoughts, a healthy male, you've got urges, we have, you being able to just recognize it for what it forward. Now, I'm a positive person. I don't to an advantage. So, we talked about negative if you go do this, what's going to be the negative you waste just gratifying yourself or watching something like or giving or them living rent-free that you could be pursuing your goals going the past. but you can do something about today. So, don't waste any time, any - don't let, And switching to something positive, let's talk about Epicurus. He talked about the importance after this pleasure, this coping mechanism. And guess what? You can substitute it for but they're actually relatively - you know, You know, I got all these different teas with, actually taste really good. I think finding we all are going to probably default to at some that, hey, you can get a lot of pleasure just now. My wife stops by and I don't always know know, kind of a thing there. But, she's like, was actually just in here. It's a little bit usually stay this late, but I wanted to get you enjoyed today's video. A little bit different. the comments. I want to hear from you. And what Come on, yeah, check it out. Boom! Right there.