Transcriber: Camille Martinez I want to skip the introduction. I want to start by doing an experiment. I'm going to play three videos But I've replaced the audio and instead of the sound of rain, I've added the sound of bacon frying. So I want you think carefully (Rain falls) (Rain falls) (Rain falls) All right. Actually, I lied. They're all bacon. (Bacon sizzles) (Applause) My point here isn't really every time you see a rainy scene, but it's to show that our brains We're not looking for accuracy. So on the subject of deception, I wanted to quote one In &quot;The Decay of Lying,&quot; that all bad art comes from copying and all great art comes and telling beautiful, untrue things. So, I want to make this clear - when you're watching a movie and a phone rings, it's not actually ringing. It's been added later All of the sounds you hear are fake. Everything, apart from the dialogue, is fake. Not the only thing that's fake Laughter) When you watch a movie and you see (Wings flap) They haven't really recorded the bird. It sounds a lot more realistic or shaking kitchen gloves. (Flaps) The burning of a cigarette up close -- (Cigarette burns) It actually sounds a lot more authentic if you take a small Saran Wrap ball and release it. (A Saran Warp ball being released) Punches? (Punch) Let me play that again. (Punch) That's often done by sticking usually cabbage. (Cabbage stabbed with a knife) The next one - but it's breaking bones. (Bones break) Well, no one was really harmed. It's actually ... breaking celery or frozen lettuce. (Breaking frozen lettuce or celery) (Laughter) Yeah. Thanks to my three friends Making the right sounds as a trip to the supermarket and going to the vegetable section. But it's often a lot more So let's reverse-engineer together the creation of a sound effect. One of my favorite stories He's a contributor to our library, and a great sound designer for &quot;Tron&quot; He was part of the Paramount team for &quot;The Hunt for Red October.&quot; In this Cold War classic, in the '90s, they were asked to produce the sound So they had a small problem: they couldn't really find So basically, what they did is, they went to a friend's swimming pool, and Frank performed a cannonball. They placed an underwater mic and an overhead mic We recreated the sound. So here's what the underwater (Underwater plunge) Adding the overhead mic, it sounded a bit like this: (Water splashes) So now they took the sound sort of like slowing down a record. (Water splashes at lower octave) And then they removed (Water splashes) And pitched it down another octave. (Water splashes at lower octave) And then they added from the overhead microphone. (Water splashes) And by looping and repeating that sound, they got this: (Propeller churns) So, creativity and technology put together that we're inside the submarine. But once you've created your sounds and you've synced them to the image, you want those sounds to live And one the best ways to do that So this is the first audio tool Reverberation, or reverb, after the original sound has ended. So it's sort of like the -- all the reflections from the materials, the objects and the walls Take, for example, the sound of a gunshot. The original sound is less (Gunshot) By adding reverb, we can make it sound like (Gunshot reverbs in bathroom) Or like it was recorded (Gunshot reverbs church) Or in a canyon. (Gunshot reverbs in canyon) So reverb gives us a lot of information about the space between the listener If the sound is the taste, then reverb is sort of like But reverb can do a lot more. Listening to a sound than the on-screen action is going to immediately signify to us that we're listening to a commentator, to an objective narrator that's not Also, emotionally intimate are often heard with zero reverb, because that's how it would sound On the completely other side, adding a lot of reverb to a voice is going to make us think or perhaps that we're inside or that we're listening Or, even more powerful in film, Morgan Freeman. (Laughter) So -- (Applause) But what are some other tools or hacks that sound designers use? Well, here's a really big one. I think some people guessed it. It's silence. I didn't really forget but I sort of wanted to show that a few moments of silence And in the Western world, we're not really used to verbal silences. They're considered awkward or rude. So silence preceding verbal communication can create a lot of tension. But imagine a really big Hollywood movie, where it's full of explosions Loud stops being loud So in a yin-yang way, silence needs loudness for either of them to have any effect. But what does silence mean? Well, it depends how Silence can place us inside or provoke thought. We often relate silences with ... contemplation, meditation, being deep in thought. But apart from having one meaning, silence becomes a blank canvas upon which the viewer is invited But I want to make it clear: And I know this sounds like the most (Laughter) But even if you were to enter and zero external sounds, you would still be able to hear And in cinema, traditionally, because of the sound of the projector. And even in today's Dolby world, there's not really any moment of silence There's always some sort of noise. Now, since there's no such what do filmmakers Well, as a synonym, Ambiences are the unique background sounds that are specific to each location. Each location has a unique sound, and each room has a unique sound, which is called room tone. So here's a recording (Voices, music) And here's a recording (Traffic sounds, car horns, voices) Believe me, it's a lot better than to have to smell Times Square. Room tone is the addition of all the ventilation, the heating, the fridge. Here's a recording [You can hear the ventilation, the boiler, [(is that an electric toothbrush or just Ambiences work in a most primal way. They can speak directly So, birds chirping outside your window perhaps because, as a species, we've been used to that sound (Birds chirp) On the other hand, industrial sounds a little more recently. Even though I really like they've been used by one and his sound designer, Alan Splet -- industrial sounds often carry (Machine noises) Now, sound effects can tap Occasionally, they can be so significant that they become a character in a movie. They are a lot more low maintenance For example - The sound of thunder may indicate (Thunder) Church bells can remind us or perhaps our own mortality. (Bells ring) And breaking of glass can or a friendship. (Glass breaks) Scientists believe that dissonant sounds, for example, brass or wind may remind us of animal howls in nature and therefore create a sense (Brass and wind instruments play) So now we've spoken But occasionally, the source That's what we call offscreen sounds, or &quot;acousmatic.&quot; The term &quot;acousmatic&quot; comes who used to teach behind not revealing himself to his disciples. I think the mathematician in that way, his students might focus and his words and its meaning, rather than the visual of him speaking. So sort of like the Wizard of Oz, or &quot;1984's&quot; Big Brother, separating the voice from its source, separating cause and effect sort of creates a sense and therefore, authority. There's a strong tradition Nuns in monasteries in Rome and Venice up in galleries close to the ceiling, creating the illusion that we're listening Richard Wagner famously that was placed in a pit And one of my heroes, Aphex Twin, I think what all these masters knew you create a sense of mystery. This has been seen with Hitchcock, Hearing a sound without knowing its source is going to create some sort of tension. Also, it can minimize certain visual and can show something And if all this sounds I wanted to play a little video. (Toy squeaks) (Typewriter) (Drums) (Ping-pong) (Knives being sharpened) (Record scratches) (Saw cuts) (Woman screams) (Laughter) What I'm sort of trying is that sound is a language. It can trick us by transporting it can change the mood; it can set the pace; it can make us laugh On a personal level, I fell a few years ago, and somehow managed to make it And I think with our work we're trying to kind of expand And in that way, we want to sound designers, filmmakers, and video game and app designers, to keep telling even better stories and creating even more beautiful lies. So thanks for listening. (Applause)