On November 22, 1995, Toy Story You couldn't take it home to watch it 11 months after it opened. This is called the theatrical window: when a movie is shown only in theaters. And it's gotten way smaller over time. Toy Story 4 was released in June of 2019. To watch it at home, you only had to wait This shrinking window is the result between movie theaters and movie studios. But how much smaller Are movie theaters close to becoming Thanks to a Supreme Court movie studios and theater owners For a while, the only way to see a movie But pretty soon... &quot;Televison--&quot; &quot;--VHS--&quot; &quot;--DVD--&quot; The days of theaters being the only way To defend against those new competitors, theater owners have struck deals to give them a window of exclusivity before a movie could be seen Movie studios agreed because ZORADI: We created these windows because they were really good for That's Mark Zoradi, a former Disney executive. ZORADI: ...from 1980 until 2010... But today, he's... ZORADI: ...the CEO of Cinemark Theaters. The third largest theater chain Theater owners generally want because they only make money And even then they're splitting But movie studios have the opportunity to keep making money long after a film In fact, it's become essential for studios to ZORADI: In order for you to break even, then you've got to go right down the line, in order to make that all back. In the beginning, the minimum But obviously... CORCORAN: Over time, that's shrunk. With the introduction of DVDs, you had a window at roughly ZORADI: The window, prior to 74 days before a movie would go to That means a digital release you can buy, ZORADI: And then at 90 days they and then after that, they would take it to That's kind of how the sequence is. But studios haven't always In 2010, Warner Bros.'s parent company Which theater owners didn't agree to. Netflix challenged the window planning a movie release in IMAX Major theater chains banned their films. One studio has been really persistent though. RUBIN: Universal has been probably about wanting to shorten In 2011, Universal made plans to 30 days after it hit theaters. Some chains threatened to Universal ultimately backed down, Ultimately, theaters need studios, Studios need theaters to make big money And that mutual need kept things stable. For a while. Until... &quot;Theaters shut down due to the global pandemic.&quot; &quot;Movie theaters were forced &quot;They've been trying to survive the coronavirus.&quot; (Overlapping) &quot;Bankruptcy.&quot; &quot;...in AMC's future.&quot; RUBIN: The power dynamic shifted a lot In 2020, studios had newfound leverage and one company struck RUBIN: Universal had this movie, And they had two options. One, they could delay it, or two they could and put the movie in theaters and on video And the caveat there is that there weren't Trolls: World Tour quickly became It made more money for Universal than the original film did NBCUniversal's head of film "As soon as theaters reopen, we expect In other words: in theaters and on demand at the same time. The two biggest theater chains in the US fired back by saying they'd never show But things were different now. The major film studios had restructured Warner Bros. released their entire 2021 slate Disney and Universal made a similar move. CORCORAN: With that upset came time and the other studios, frankly, to and working out about what the future looks In 2021 the major theater chains Disney, Paramount, and Warner Bros. agreed But Universal got its own deal They agreed to give theaters a portion of And in return they secured 31 days for their biggest movies, But one thing that's noticeably absent from all of these deals is any sign of where a movie comes out on demand At what seemed to be studios decided to keep the That's partly because movie theaters are still But it's also because movie theaters can sort CORCORAN: Streaming customers value It carries with it sort of an aura of quality ZORADI: It &quot;eventizes&quot; a movie. It's a shared experience that helps become The pandemic shifted the power dynamic towards But it also showed that That doesn't necessarily mean But if they can survive a pandemic, maybe