You and I belong to the only group We're the lone twig left on our branch of But we weren't always alone. 100,000 years ago, Eurasia was home to other ancestors met, and spent some quality time Some of them we've known about for a while, been digging up since the 1800s. But some of them are more recent additions who we may, on this channel, have called Denis-ovans but we have been informed that it's De-nis-o-vans The Denisovans were discovered almost by accident in 2008, and from the DNA of their living descendants. That surprising discovery has opened our eyes mated with, other hominins. So now, anthropologists are following the events -- traces that many of us carry with Thanks to this research, we're starting humans paired up with other hominins, giving of our species. And we're starting to tackle some really from that time when we met up with other human And why are we the only ones left today? As we get closer to answering those questions, our success as a species has to do with those travels around the planet. Neanderthals lived throughout Europe, and We've found their fossils from Portugal Altai Mountains of Siberia in the east, and The oldest Neanderthal-like fossils come from de los Huesos" - literally, the Pit of the while the most recent come from a handful around 40,000 years ago. Anatomically, the Neanderthals were very much They were relatively short and stocky, with They had heavy brow ridges, large noses, and the round ones of Homo sapiens. And we know they weren't just dumb cavemen. They controlled fire, created stone tools and cared for injured members of their groups. And our ancestors clearly recognized them with them! We know this because researchers have sequenced in 2010, from bone fragments found in a cave And by comparing that genome to those of modern can find out how much Neanderthal DNA some Although original estimates were around 4%, people of European and East Asian descent genes. Meanwhile, people native to Sub-Saharan Africa that their ancestors never encountered Neanderthals. And as we find more fossils to sample, we happened more than once. And our genomes can even shed light on when For example, genetic material extracted from lived in Siberia about 45,000 years ago has And researchers were able to measure how long compared to the same segments in living people. It turned out that his Neanderthal sections that he wasn't that many generations removed In fact, the researchers were able to estimate an interbreeding event between Neanderthals years ago -- just 10,000 years before he was And this was likely when modern humans migrating the Middle East. Likewise, a 40,000-year-old jawbone was found the earliest evidence of modern humans in And it was found to have some anatomical similarities When its genome was sequenced over a decade Neanderthal ancestor only some four to six Between 6 and 9% of its genome was Neanderthal! So, using fossils like these, researchers bred with Neanderthals several times in different But how did all of this interbreeding change Well, sometimes, not very much. The genome from the Romanian jaw bone suggested the DNA of living modern humans. But sometimes, these encounters had a big For example, two genes that play important passed from Neanderthals to people of Eurasian One of these genes, known as STAT2, is part when we get a viral infection. And we know that the Eurasian version of STAT2 found in sub-Saharan Africans. Plus, molecular-clock studies have found that in the Eurasian genome long after the evolutionary - so it must've come from interbreeding. Meanwhile, members of many East Asian populations which is involved in skin-cell repair after -- in other words, sunburn. And this gene also seems to have come from for modern humans spreading across Asia. These genes are both examples of a phenomenon material from one species moves into the gene for, so it sticks around. But these genetic contributions also can have Introgressed genes that were once beneficial in which natural selection is taking place For example, there's a gene that's involved in to be really beneficial before medical care But now that gene has been found to increase And this gene, too, seems to have also come But Neanderthals aren't the only other hominins In 2010, paleo-geneticists announced a shocking southern Siberia had yielded ancient mitochondrial Earlier work there at had turned up evidence researchers were expecting that the DNA they also be Neanderthal - but it was not. Almost a decade later, we have seven fossil There's the tip of a pinky, three molars, from Denisova Cave, all dated to between about And there's also a single partial jawbone 160,000 years ago. This new group of hominins has yet to be given specimen, a fossil that's complete enough So for now, they're informally known as And they are essentially a ghost lineage within family tree that lacks a fossil record. Now it could be that there are other Denisovan just haven't been identified. But because there's no type specimen, and extracted, we just don't know for sure. But we have sequenced enough of the Denisovan For instance, their mitochondrial DNA -- which is passed down from mothers to their offspring that we shared with the Denisovans lived about But the nuclear DNA of Denisovans -- which more similar to ours. So this might be a sign that Denisovans also our lineage, like Homo erectus. Today, we find small amounts of Denisovan and up to 6% Denisovan DNA in some populations And the variations we see between the DNA have from Denisovan fossils suggests that three different groups of Denisovans. So it didn't happen just once, or in just And some of these genetic contributions are Take the gene known as EPAS1, found in many This gene is associated with differences in And at high altitudes, more hemoglobin means This gene seems to have been introduced by because of the advantages it offered to modern So, we know that many of the hominins that really well-suited to a lot of environments. So, why aren't there populations of these Well, anthropologists have been thinking about to the Neanderthals. The longest-standing explanations for their disappearance have been that climate change, of the two caused their downfall. And there is some evidence that there were between 44,000 and 40,000 years ago, which to decline, leaving them vulnerable to extinction. Other researchers have modeled the distribution those habitats were becoming more fragmented As for the impact of modern humans, we know of violence or direct competition between So, some researchers have suggested that it humans from Africa into Eurasia that pushed we weren't better adapted that they were, Other researchers think it might have been and that social factors, like long-distance Or, maybe the Neanderthals were just on their The genetic information that we have suggests of modern humans, and that inbreeding might've genetic diversity. This generally makes populations less adaptable As for the Denisovans, well, we only just that some of the same factors that brought as well. As a result, we are the only species of hominins But it's kind of remarkable to me how close we were to that not being the case But this doesn't necessarily mean that Homo from the start. Because, we really weren't. The fact is, our species became better adapted with other hominins that had evolved to fit The other species like the Neanderthals in these new landscapes. They helped us tolerate new conditions, like They helped our bodies become better at signalling clot faster when we were injured. The genetic legacy they left us is part of And in a sense, those hominins didn't completely in us. They live on in our own genes, reminding us Thanks to this month's Eontologists: Patrick If you'd like to join them and our other go to patreon.com/eons and make your pledge! And if you want to join us for more adventures and subscribe. Thanks for joining me today in the Konstantin more about our hominin predecessors, then That Lived Before Us."