&quot;That'll Be the Day&quot; was Buddy Holly's first and is one of the records that helped define that Buddy had to violate his contract with the record out so the world could hear it? and this is the True Tale of Buddy Holly's hear, be sure to like and subscribe! session for Decca Records on July 22, 1956, on what would eventually become Music Row in had produced a single, &quot;Blue Days / Black Nights&quot; decent reviews but didn't sell well. J.I. Allison were anxious to get to Nashville earlier called &quot;That'll Be the Day&quot;. Wayne movie called &quot;The Searchers&quot;. uttered whenever he disagreed with another immediately picked up the phrase, the way guys do. rehearsing, he suggested that the two of &quot;That'll be the day&quot;. Buddy shot back, &quot;Yeah that in about 30 minutes, with Buddy &amp; J.I. swapping The band at that July session was made up of Sonny Curtis on guitar, and Don Guess on bass. But got to Nashville, Don Guess didn't have a bass. and since school was not in session, he'd gave them 20 minutes to find a bass, or the they ran over to WSM, home of the Grand Ole session player, Lightning Chance. 5 songs in 3 hours: * Rock Around with Ollie Vee; * I'm Changing All Those Changes; and These days, we think of some of these cuts as way at the time. Producer Owen Bradley called heard&quot; and opted not to release any of the cuts. told Buddy he didn't have the voice to be of a career in music. He reportedly called Buddy Buddy would eventually have one more and would have another single released, he knew he was going nowhere with Decca. Buddy Holly, that might have been the end out on an obscure compilation in the 1970s and moved on. But we are talking about Buddy, [music] Discouraged, but determined, Buddy and J.I. period of rehearsing and gigging, often just some studio time in town and recorded some had been playing at the Lubbock Youth that &quot;That'll Be the Day&quot; could b e a hit, and It was around this time, late 1956, that Buddy a producer and engineer with his own studio from Lubbock. Petty was proving that he had from West Texas. Roy Orbison had recorded and soon after releasing it on a small local &quot;Party Doll&quot; in Clovis and landed a contract with right sounds and had connections in the music So Norman Petty seemed like Buddy's best demo version of &quot;That'll Be the Day&quot; in Clovis and that demo to get a new record contract. 1957 and Buddy got ready to The group that assembled to record on Feb 24, July session. Sonny Curtis had left the group to have a bass. Buddy called up Larry Welborn who a bass. He also recruited Niki Sullivan, a unknown to both of them, was Buddy's 3rd cousin) . records by this point, Buddy wanted backing vocals The session got started about 9:00 that evening. from trucks rumbling down the main road was shop next door was closed for the day, so They spent several hours working on &quot;Looking just a day or two before . He'd had some trouble during the drive to the studio, when Buddy's based on something Buddy's fun-loving mother used you are / I'm lookin' for someone to love...&quot; stark contrast to the tightly With everyone warmed up from working through the mic placements set, &quot;That'll Be to finish up. By 3:00 that morning they This was a much better record than what they'd the two versions, you have to admit that Decca What were the differences between a hit Nashville and Clovis versions? Tune in Even though the Nashville and Clovis versions are there were some big differences in the recording from the version that Decca decided to down here. This next part is a mixture of The first and most obvious difference is Webb Pierce had advised Buddy, saying &quot;If Taking this a bit too far, Buddy set the song four full steps higher than his natural register, The hit version we all know and love is in biggest hits. Here's a bit of &quot;That'll [Buddy sings Nashville version] And now, let's put it into the the hit version. Buddy used a capo on this song... [Buddy sings Clovis version] The next difference is the beat. The Nashville rhythm &amp; blues. It doesn't really sound song out quite yet. Some of the other songs cut but not this one. The intense rehearsing the Nashville session resulted in a much tighter version, rather than sounding like novice R&amp;B Another key factor is the overall sound quality of better. This is a real testament to Norman Petty's literally built by hand, to his patience, and to Owen Bradley's Quonset Hut in Nashville and Owen Bradley is one of the finest producers. talent to make great records. The fantastic are evidence. Bradley recorded Patsy as well as 9-year-old Brenda Lee's astonishing other labels and producers to record Vincent's &quot;Be Bop A Lula&quot; and The Rock and Roll only weeks before Buddy's July session. words) Owen Bradley said he didn't really and 19-year-old Buddy Holly didn't know how toward the band. Sonny Curtis said that &quot;they our thing&quot;. The result is that Nashville version and the band is mixed well into the background. every instrument and voice audible and The backing vocals by Niki Sullivan and Gary are the icing on a really terrific cake. created had to have had a lot to do with it. The songs recorded as opposed to the three-hour There is one last, very important element that the elemental songs in the rock and roll canon speakers to start the song. The intro to unspectacular in comparison. It's okay for a [Intro to the Nashville Version] The lick from the Clovis version, while is something really innovative. What I intro from Fats Domino's &quot;Blue Monday&quot; [&quot;Blue Monday&quot; by Fats Domino plays] Blue Monday is one of those covers from those Buddy plays the intro just the way he the Day&quot;. Buddy had played similar licks &quot;Rock-A-Bye Rock&quot;), but never with [Intro to hit version plays] I should note here that a similar lick appears on Witchie Twitchie&quot;, though not as prominently as Lonnie Johnson's &quot;Jelly Roll Baker&quot; might have songs, but I can't draw the straight line to the With all these new factors in its favor, the great They knew they had a potential hit record. But keep &quot;That'll Be the Day&quot; buried forever. something special with their re-recorded and shoulders above the version that Buddy in the couple of days following the session, Buddy realized that he had a clause in his Decca releasing any song that he had already recorded the next five years. While he was no longer a just recorded could not legally be released. was any way around this. He wound up talking Buddy &quot;the biggest no-talent he had worked with&quot;. call. Buddy tries to see if Decca will give him cut last summer, &quot;just in case he wanted to try Cohen gets a whiff that something is up, and lets anything that he's already recorded for Decca. but the call ends with no relief for Buddy. a solution - if Buddy can't release the the record. Rather than putting out a Buddy under the name of a group, figuring that Decca Naming groups after birds or insects was popular the Spiders, so they got out an encyclopedia and said that they considered &quot;The Grasshoppers&quot; and Crickets&quot;. They liked the idea that crickets There is a popular story that they chose the name of their records. This is actually half true. You at the end of &quot;I'm Gonna Love You Too&quot;. But by the been called The Crickets for about 4 months. of &quot;Buddy Holly &amp; The Crickets&quot;. While they there were no records released by &quot;Buddy Holly &amp; either Buddy Holly records or Crickets records. Welborn is the bass player on &quot;That'll Be the Day&quot; the 16-year-old bass player in Larry Welborn's by Buddy &amp; J.I. for a pickup gig sometime in they asked him join the band, and promised that but agreed, signed the contracts, Now Norman Petty went to work sending out the name of The Crickets, with no mention of Decca. In an interesting twist, that demo the Brunswick label, a subsidiary of Decca! Be the Day&quot;, and fell in love with Buddy Holly. great records right up until his untimely death If not for Buddy's determination, desire, of Norman Petty, plus a little bit of we might never have heard all that great By the way, once &quot;That'll Be the Day&quot; was Decca pressed and released the Nashville version bought that record were kind of surprised... you've enjoyed this exploration of &quot;That'll can find links to a YouTube playlist as well as a bibliography of some of the sources I subscribe, and I'll see you soon with another