The universe is a harsh, brutal and extreme temperatures and pressures make it It's in you. And in me. And perhaps there is no quest more our beautiful blue home. But scanning like most things in astronomy, comes with its they look like? Should we even look for One thing that makes the search for alien life looking for. But by studying ancient life forms the kind of organisms that are most likely to be I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching scientists actually hunt for alien life, earliest life forms, and the surprising guiding the quest to answer the eternal If you were tasked with combing through a where would you start? I reckon I'd start Starting the search in the most hospitable The galactic habitable zone is the most optimal conditions for potentially it's a spot with enough heavy elements for like supernovae or stellar close calls. This the spiral arms of galaxies, since they're So far, we've discovered 5,539 exoplanets, of Scientists are still debating what kind of other planets. As far as we know, life on Earth our atmosphere was mainly nitrogen gas, carbon why some scientists choose this atmospheric But others aren't so convinced. They say only since methane or hydrogen gas atmospheres In reality, it seems to be a bit of a composition of a planet determines what that planet. But the kind of life that emerges Let me quickly explain with an example from home. Today, Earth's atmosphere is 21% oxygen. That 2.4 billion years ago that free oxygen gas is known as the Great Oxidation Event. The main living in the ocean evolved the ability oxygen gas faster than it could react with evaporated from the oceans into the atmosphere, This is an example of a biosignature of life - the next step in honing Biosignatures are substances, signals or activity. This could be something or something more subtle like the composition of they indicate not only the potential presence It's important to understand that all biosignatures, because while they could be signs things. A big challenge scientists face is There's no official classification system about them falling into three categories - Gaseous biosignatures are direct or indirect manifestation of this is the composition of of haze could be an indirect byproduct of a particular planet hosts microbial life similar to before the Great Oxidation Event. It's similar free oxygen in the atmosphere could be a Temporal biosignatures are time-bound changes that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the Vegetation grows in the spring, and decays in the northern hemisphere than the southern hemisphere use this kind of information to see where on an nothing is so black and white. Temporal too. The concentration of methane in Earth's its interaction with water vapour in the itself is from biological origin, the temporal I personally find surface biosignatures every planet reflects some light from its the planet will reflect different combinations a unique reflectance spectrum for every snow, water and soil can all be deduced from the reflectance spectra of a planet. This Here's where it gets super cool. Today, the Earth appears blue from space because some scientists think that there was a time There's an ancient family of microbes that Bacteriorhodopsin can create energy without do. It literally just turns sunlight into thought to be one of the simplest and earliest But why would it make Earth appear purple? reflects a lot of purple light. This makes its have had oceans full of this organism, turning a bit of fun to imagine a purple earth, these microbes, and others like them, could be a Of course, the reflection of purple light alone with evidence of a highly saline surface, that You see, the specific family of ancient microbes halophillic archaea, or haloarchaea for short. life on Earth. Even though they're single-celled bacteria. The two are actually totally different &quot;Halophilic&quot; means they grow and survive salinity. Halophiles belong to a larger Extremophiles are life forms that are able are lots of different kinds of extremophiles extreme conditions like very high or very low salinity, acidity, and heavy metals, or any These organisms span the globe, inhabiting the springs in Japan, to the Atacama desert in and even a hypersaline deep lake in Antarctica, What makes extremophiles so interesting is living in such extreme conditions forces you and physiology are often modified in to their harsh environments. And this Many extremophile habitats on to the conditions on other planetary bodies. and they can teach us a lot about where For example, the Atacama desert in South America high UV radiation levels, and oxidizing soil, we've been studying it as an analogue across the Atacama desert, but its presence is helps scientists identify the exact factors and therefore where we might have The extremophilic yeast Exophiala is another regions of the Atacama, and caught the Researchers were looking at how Exophiala's Martian environment. After the first 24 hours overexpressed and others underexpressed there were no signs of heat-shock proteins - to high-stress conditions. Even more Exophiala's protein expression patterns because it indicates that Exophiala is able to In other studies, Exophiala showed great It also showed the highest UV-B with other similar yeasts. All this for potential life on Mars. It may possible any Martian life we might find could Certain species of our haloarchaea astrobiological models. Specifically, lacusprofundi. They are both extremophiles candidates for understanding potential Think about it. If there is a planet where on Earth, it makes sense that the life we may if the planet does have similarities to our own, is it really so crazy to think that Mars is a specific focus for our search for life, processes to Earth. Scientists have determined its history. This suggests there could have been these hypersaline environments are ideal if these ancient microbes have been enclosed Similarly, Europa is thought to contain of Earth's below its inhospitable surface. This thanks to a silicate seafloor and surface oxidants In fact, scientists have been testing this theory testing to see the types of harsh environments the ejection of a capsule into low Earth orbit. with the microbes surviving the initial exposure. EXPOSE facility for medium and long-term exposure Space Station. Three separate missions testing survival of various halophilic archaea from the ESA's BIOMEX experiment. They reported space exposure outside the ISS, suggesting life Clearly, there's still a lot we don't they've only ever been studied in isolation. How All the research so far has focused on sodium in other salts? So even though they seem like more research is needed to fully understand So how does knowledge of these ancient help us in the search for life in the universe? Well, within our own solar system, having intimate where we send our space missions. For example, to investigate a suspected ancient lake. We hydrothermal vents on Mars, but Spirit hot spring activity in Mars's past. Hot springs because they can preserve ancient cells in It would be an ideal place to find fossils of Beyond the Kuiper belt, studying extremophiles evolves in the universe. Firstly, it can show us certain spectral fingerprint, or a particular signals we receive from distant planets Extremophiles show us what types of life we they push back the limits of life as we know it, Our searches for signs of life haven't been very more. Designs are already in the works for a the skies in 2030s and 2040s. The Nautilus is by 2033, and would enable scientists to of the James Webb Telescope thanks to its large is designed to observe potentially habitable Exoplanet Observatory, or HabEx for short, methane. It would also become the first image an Earth-like exoplanet. They sound We've come a long way, and still have a long epic mission to find other lifeforms our planet. Our distant relatives will just Personally, I am not much of an extremophile; I time. Which is why I was pretty excited when I was video. Their advanced temperature-adjusting quality of my sleep by altering the temperature winter months, I've loved jumping into bed and just a heated mattress cover. Using its app and make automatic adjustments throughout the night, clever enough that my wife's side and my own vibrating alarm was subtle and gentle enough and was a lot less blaring than a regular alarm on proven way to improve your sleep by up to 34%, why or following my link in the description below -- Thanks for watching! If you like this video, you in this playlist. A big thanks to my patrons and added to the end of every Astrum video, check the