(upbeat music) - Hey everybody, it's Jeff Dunham. - And Bubba J! - Bubba J, why are we here? - We're about to introduce and to do that, we got a bunch of folks right here in Rockford, (audience cheering) - So Bubba J, what's the video? - This video is gonna be our top 10 videos from the past decade. That means the past 10 years. - That's right. - Okay. (audience cheering) - Oh shut the hell up. - How are you Walter? - Who the hell cares? Oh wait, I take that back, I'm suing someone for sexual harassment. - And who will you sue - My wife. - Your wife. But she's your wife. - I know and I realize I years ago with one simple word, I do not. You ever think like that? - No, my wife's an angel. - Oh, you're lucky, mine's still alive. (audience laughing) - But again, you do still - Yeah, but it may have changed - [Jeff] How's that? - I used to say I'd jump in front of a bus to save her life. - Yeah. - Now I think I'd just yell. Hey! Three, two, one, look out! And about that timing too. - And what would she do if - Oh, she'd shove my ass and then she'd have them just a few times for good measure. - So what do you think in your marriage? - Everything is my fault. - But it's not. - Oh she is very convincing. - Really? - Yeah, last week I found after she rear ended - How is that your fault? - I have no freaking idea. I was taking a nap. At our house. - You know Walter, I what sexual harassment are - Oh, she didn't like the - Okay, that's too much information. - Wanna hear the noise she didn't like? - No, we don't. Walter. - Get off, I'm tired. (audience laughing) What? - You hurt her feelings! - She hurt my back. - That's terrible. - And it has been for years. - No, I mean you're terrible. - She said that to me for years too. - So you're saying the sex is bad? - It didn't use to be. - No? When we were young it was I don't know, it was and taking it for a ride, woo hoo! You know, pushing buttons You get it? It's an analogy dumbass. - Yes, we get it. - And that new car smell, whoo. (audience laughing) - Good lord. - Uh oh, slow down or we'll too fast, if you know what I'm saying. - Yes! - But now almost 50 years in that same damn car down the effing driveway. You get to the point you Sometimes you gotta choke it. But usually I don't even wanna - I don't know what that means. - Yeah you do. And she does not like reverse. Yes, these well disguised jokes are how we keep our show family friendly! (audience cheering) - All right, to introduce we're now in Indianapolis, Indiana and getting ready to do a show. They just opened the doors, I But on number nine video, at Planet Hollywood for a for an NBC special and (upbeat music) (electronic beeping) - [Announcer] Previously on 6 Minutes. - You wanted to see me, Mr. President. (dramatic music) - Yes Jack, I did. Yeah, that's right, a white president. It could happen. We have reliable intel that there will be a terrorist - He looks dead. - I know, because he is, but he's not. It's complicated. Anyway, somehow he got in Hard to believe because - Who's that? - That's his coyote on a stick. The target's name is Achmed and he plans to blow up the place in as he calls them, infidels. Las Vegas. - I'll do everything in I give you my word Mr. President. - Why are you talking like that? Just use your normal voice. - Really? - I am telling you, oh great leader, this Las Vegas looks like hell on Earth! Look at all these infidels, I kill you! Huh? (goat bahs) Okay, I'm going in. - Dammit, we're running out of time! - No, they're three hours - You idiot, they're - Oh, I always get that wrong. (clock beeping) - I've never seen anything corrupt, horrible city of Las Vegas. Save yourselves, do not come here! Your eyes will burn! My, my eyes, my eyes, my eyes! Their burkas here in Las (Achmed slurping) - Shots fired. - Be careful, Jack. - I'm going in. (intense music) (guns banging) - Oh, sorry guys, my bad. - [Man] Asshole. - Peanut, where did you send me? How low can the dice For the perfect row every day - What? No, I am telling you, do not come here. I am being forced to Did you know that women have two eyebrows? - Shh! - What, you shush shush! I am not talking, I am on the phone. - Mr. President, our target has activated a nuclear warhead just We have to dismantle that missile! - I'll get my best man on it. (birds chirping) - Well, I'm on it, now what? (laughs) (intense music) - I win, I win! It must be because I brought - I've acquired the target. I have the shot. - They have laser tag I love this place. - Are we clear? - Abort, abort! Jack, repeat abort, - Then who's trying to blow up Vegas? (dramatic music) - Damn you, Jack Durham! - It was you all along Why? - My wife was going there for the weekend and this is my last chance for freedom. - Don't listen to him, Jack. He's not the president! (dramatic music) - Damn it, I would have if it wasn't for you meddling kids! But I can still do this! (laughs) (missile humming) - Uh-oh, whoa! (sirens wailing) Whoo, yippie cay aye mother, I mean mom! (Walter grunting) (Walter shouting) - Welcome to Las Vegas, Mr. President. (Walter screaming) (clock beeping) - Time for the show to start! - Well, look at that, yeah, just surfing the internet on AOL. So this computer right made in 1993 is what I wrote Bubba J material on. And you're getting ready which is the first time from my Comedy Central in 2006. So again, here we go Can I do this? Yeah, I can do this, video number eight in Photoshop 2.5, wow. So Bubba J, what does the J stand for? - Uh, my last name is Junior. - Well, it's a good thing - Yeah, that'd be dumb, That's my brother's name. - So Bubba J, what have - I've been watching - That's your favorite sport. - Yeah, NASCAR is too. (laughs) - You know, NASCAR is very hot right now. - Oh, I know, everybody loves NASCAR. - Well, Sweet Daddy said driving in a circle. - Oh I know, that's my favorite part. They're making a left turn! (laughs) It's a sport that's easy to - I understand you got a new tattoo. - Yeah, I got another one Did you get it? - Yeah, I'm tired of hearing drink too much. - Oh, 'cause it's not true? - Oh no, it's true, I'm Makes me thirsty for another beer. - Well besides beer, do you - Yeah, but I had box wine - Box wine. It's wine that comes in a box. It's great 'cause if you then you got something to throw up in. - Bubba J, don't you - Huh? - Oh, like what? - Your liver? - No, my last abduction - You think you got abducted by aliens? - I don't think, I know. They took me and they And not in the good way. (Bubba J laughs) - Look, Bubba J, when and you party a lot, who - What the (beep) is that? - Do you drive drunk? - No officer! (laughs) I'm practicing. - Bubba J, have you ever - Yeah, and penicillin Stupid cousin. It was a second cousin! That's a gray area. - Bubba J, do you play - Does quarters count? - No. Do you have a drinking problem? - No, I pretty much got it figured out. - What's your favorite beer? - An open one. - And how do you know - I run out. (laughs) - Have you ever been to an AA meeting? - AA is for quitters. (audience cheering) Hey, and Mr. Dunham, I was wondering, what is it that you do for a living? - I'm a comedian. - You are? - You got one of them catch phrases? - Well, you know I'm a ventriloquist. - Oh, you don't eat meat? What? - Bubba J, are you married? - Oh yeah. - Yeah, is your wife pretty. - Yeah, no. (audience laughing) - What's the difference? - The light. - Where'd you meet your wife? - At the family reunion. What? - So Bubba J, where was - At the state fair. - State fair? - Well, why don't you tell you saw your wife. - All right, there she was. More? Where was she? - Oh, she was leaning up - Yeah. Sunlight glistening off her curlers. Corn dog in one hand, a Uh, my tattoo's growing! - Hey everybody, Jeff Dunham. - And Walter. - So Walter, we're video number seven. - Number seven, but before we do this, we need to say hi to some lovely folks in Indianapolis, Indiana. - Here they are right here. (audience cheering) It's a great crowd. - They're a sick crowd, Right. Yeah, the best. - That's right. So number seven. This is Achmedina, the hot dead terrorist. Trumped or grump, and - Right. (audience cheering) - Greetings, American infidels. I am Achmedina, welcome to part two of my coverage of election 2016. Last time we spoke with and candidate Bubba J despite having zero chance following his drunk that he posted on social media. - They say too much alcohol And, um, something else. - Unbelievable. Here's a clip from a few months ago when he announced his candidacy. Why did you decide to run for president? - Well, from what I can have to do anything. And they put you in free public housing. - In the White House. - Oh, I would like a black house too. Nothing wrong with a black house. In fact, some of my best - All I can say is, I looked fantastic. As for today, I'm here and controversial presidential Many complain he is politically but the more offensive he gets, the better he does in the polls. Good evening, Wonald Grump. - Hello, Achmedina. - Wonald. - That's not your real name, is it? - Yes it is. - It's not even a real name. - Yes it is! - Wonald Grump, really? - Achmedina, really? Is that your real name? I think you're actually Megyn Kelly. - Are you kidding? Her hair color is out of the bottle fake. - And yours isn't. - And yours isn't? - It's not even my hair. - Me either! - Oh. - Well, this has been fun. - We are not done yet! - Calm down, man. Uh, lady, skeletor, whatever. - Moving on, so Wonald, this interview is your chance to say whatever Just peek into that - Where's my African American? - He's right there. - Say what? Whose African American? I'm Jamaican, cracker. - I love crackers. You know, some of my favorite When I become president, I and nobody builds better I will build a great, on our southern border pay for those crackers, mark my words. - Everything goes better on a Ritz. - You know what we need We need to make America great again. And how do we do that? By making it suck less. So today, I'm announcing make America suck less. - Not bad. - Why, thank you. - So, when you are your first interview? - I'm sorry, no, I promised - Oh really, is there nothing - Uh? Hello? (beeping) (Jeff laughing) - [Jeff] All I know is that it's worth it, the fact that you're laughing with me. - [Achmed] Silence, I kill you! - All right Melvin, your turn. - Greeting mere mortals, I - And you're here to - Yes, these are movie &quot;Minding the Monsters.&quot; - You were not in that. - No, but the guys have on costumes from a special and I have - So here it is. - Video number six. Duh duh duh! (wolf howling) - So Achmed, do you like scary movies? - Oh yes, my uncle starred in one once. It was a suicide bomber training film. - What? - Yes, after it his career exploded. You get it, because he did too! I kill me, that's fantastic. - Look, it's starting. - Oh good. - [Announcer] Enjoy the show, folks. (thunder booms) Feel the cold grip of his presence. He sleeps in a tomb by day and arises at night with (thunder booms) &quot;The Tooth of the Vampire.&quot; (woman screaming) - I fear we're dealing with a vampire. (woman gasps) - [Announcer] &quot;The Tooth of the Vampire.&quot; - Back, back! - Oh no, okay, maybe, (dramatic music) (bats squeaking) - Bubba J is really good. - [Announcer] A mad scientist that cannot be stopped. Stitched together from pieces of the dead. Here to shock women into and strike terror in the hearts of men. - It's alive, it's alive! - And it's trying to - And now I'm going to build you a bride. (monster grunting) - [Announcer] You will be terrified. - Ah! - [Narrator] In a world and no one is willing to make a stand. There is only one who (intense music) - [Woman] So what is it you do, Mr. Nut? - I do nothing, I am rich. I mean, really rich. Wanna see my car? (intense music) (tires squealing) (eerie music) - Who's there? - [Peanut] Jeff fa fa. (Jeff screams) - Who are you, who are you? (dramatic music) - [Narrator] I Keeloween. - Pay attention or I kill you. - [Narrator] The night he came home. - I I I I kill kill kill you you you you. - [Narrator] This neighborhood. This house. These people. - [Achmed] Infidels, I kill you. - [Narrator] Are in for What will be left? When all is revealed? (Achmed grunting) - [Achmed] Too heavy, how - [Narrator] And the - [Achmed] Oh, whoa. Ooh. - Achmed, no! - [Narrator] I Keeloween, The - What, why did they never show my face? - Probably too scary. - Oh, and like your acting wasn't. - Hey. (thunder booming) Look, it's starting. - Storm clouds gather, darkness prowls. (speaker drowned out by thunder booming) This scary house, this lonely road, revenge is coming and best served cold. Revenge on Jeff, who plays with dolls. Revenge on Walter who moans and scowls. Peanut, Jose shall know their place like my awful father who scarred my face. One by one, they'll learn they'll bound to minding the monsters - I hated this. I know what to do. - What? No, don't hit that button. (guns banging) - Here we are backstage and the number five This was the lost tape of Achmed, the tape you're not I was in Raleigh, North Carolina when I was doing comedy and this is one of the very first times I brought Achmed the But it's not Achmed, it's the dead Osama. Hi everybody, Jeff Dunham. - And Achmed here. Greetings infidels. (vibrant music) So Achmed, do you know - I don't wanna know. - I dug up a tape. - A very old tape. - Well, it was before you. - Before me, is it BA. - Yeah, before Achmed. And that tape is the very - Iteration? - That's right, it was the - Who was it? - It was the year after Letterman and Leno were joking about what? - They were joking about Osama bin Laden. - That's right. - Where that guy was, was - And I figured it out. - You did? He was dead and living in So I came out with the Dead Osama. - Does anybody wanna see that? - I don't know, maybe the folks here-- - In Omaha, maybe they wanna see it. (audience cheering) - And this is one of the very first times I ever used him on stage. So it was kind of the - Okay, this should be fun. Anything else different? - Something. - Um, um. - A little fatter. - Okay good, this will be fun. Watch this. (audience cheering) - Well ladies and gentlemen, I gotta tell you, there's one sentence I have been waiting to I'm not gonna be happy until I know our country has but we cannot forget about these people. The one sentence I really wanna hear is Osama bin Laden is dead, am I right? (audience cheering) Well ladies and gentlemen, announcement for you this evening, please help me welcome on Osama bin Laden. (audience cheering) (Osama shouting) - Osama, thank you for coming. - It is okay. - You know, some people think you're dead, some people think you're alive. - I know, I'm like the Al Qaeda Elvis. - You don't look so good. - I'm fine. - You lost a lot of weight. - Jenny Craig. - So where you been all this time? - In your freaking suitcase. - How have you been at the airports? - I say, &quot;Oh, I am Allie McBeal.&quot; Silence! (audience laughing) I kill you. Silence! I kill you. What is wrong with my feet? Holy crap. Stop touching me! I kill you! What are you doing? - I'm trying to make your - I like you. Look Osama, would you mind if I ask you a few questions? - It's okay. - All right, I've been wondering, Osama, how did you talk your followers into doing the things they did? - Those guys were idiots. - You promised them 70 - I know, it was a lie. - No virgins. - Why'd you pick the number 70? - I was going to say 69 Did you get it? 69 (laughs), I kill you! Foot, foot! - God damn it! - Silence! Boo! (laughs) - Look, I understand a still live in caves. - Yes. - Too difficult to build a fort. We tried it, I said screw it, dig a hole. - I understand you still electronic equipment - Yes. - What do you do with this equipment? - We look at it. - Look at it. - Why? Kill. - I understand that you - Yes, Camp bin Laden. - What do you do at this training camp? - We have many activities. - Like what? - Yes. - Yes. - Arts and crafts. - Seen this thing on my head? - I did that. - I made it from boxer shorts. - I understand you also have many wives. - Big mistake. - Why's that? - All day long, bitch bitch bitch. At least a goat does not complain. What? - A goat? - My favorite is Margaret. - I also understand - Yes, I make the Catholics - Well look, Osama, we have a Would you mind answering a few questions if anybody has them? - Oh sure. - Okay, so any questions, we'll see if Osama can answer them. Anything at all, just yell them out. - [Woman] Where are you? - I am right here, you idiot. Thank you for your dumbass question. More questions, but this time, - What else? - [Woman] Where are your - The weapons of mass destruction, actually that is Saddam. I guess it must confuke got her tonight. - And that's a Dead Osama, there we are. (audience cheering) Now we're in my workshop and this is where all the magic happens, where And here's a Walter head, which brings us to video number four. It's from &quot;Arguing with on Comedy Central. And I love this video because at Comedy Central, numbers So this is it, Walter from Video number four. - So your wife's in town? - Oh yeah. - She always has a good time. - Good. - Pisses me off. - She's a lovely lady. - She's getting old. - Well, women age like fine wine. - She's aging like milk. - Did you guys get in another - Yeah. - I don't know, she rolled out of bed, jumped on her menstrual - Never heard it put - Oh, it even has a sound. It goes nag nag nag nag bitch bitch bitch bitch bitch. - How long you been married? - Ah, what is it now, 46 years. - Ah, what was the happiest - 47 years ago. How long you been married? - 15 years. - You'll see. - I'll see what? - Remember when you said Later you'll realize you're - Walter, what exactly is marriage to you? - It's like drinking a Slurpee. - Slurpee. - First couple of sips are I'm glad I did this. And you keep drinking, it and you go ow ow ow! The hell was I thinking? Someone kill me please! - It eventually stops hurting. - Yeah, then you're stupid enough to take another freaking sip. Ain't the same anymore is it, what being married all these years. You can't look at other women now, you can't talk to them, - What are you talking about? - I'll show you what I'm talking about. See this lovely young lady sitting right here in the front row? This gorgeous young thing, do you see her, do you see here? - Yeah. Only thing you can do now is run to the end of your chain and bark. - Okay folks, now we are in the entire house, Jeff's office. - Why is this creepy? - Are you kidding, look around, - It's fun. - All right, next video. - Next video, it's of me. - From our &quot;Spark of Insanity&quot; - Yes. You know Peanut, there's that have come from some of - Oh this is one of them. It's me going Jeff fa fa Dunham dot com. - All right. - So here we are, video number one! - Ho ho, wait. - What? - It's not one, it's number three. - What? - Video number three. - How in the world can - You're just not. - This sucks. - It's great. - No, it's not, Jeff fa fa. - Why did you interrupt me? - You mispronounced my name. - You mispronounced my last name. - I know! - It's Dunham. - Not when you look at it, it says Dunham. Jeff Dunham. Ham. You're the other white meat. (audience cheering) - Don't confuse everyone, it's Dunham. - It says Dunham, ham ham ham. (Peanut snorting) (Peanut clucking) Jeff Dunham. Dot com. Jeff Dunham. Dot com. And you know, when you it's actually Jeff fa fa Dunham dot com. - What? - Jeff fa fa. - You're using an unneeded F. Jeff fa fa. Dunham. Dot com. (audience laughing) Am I pissing you off fa fa? Jeff fa fa. Dunham. Dot com. You know the weird part is I And he would like to kill me! But he will not because that You want to kill me. - Yes you do. - Yes. - Yes. - Yes. - Assert your feelings, Jeff fa fa. Dunham dot com. - What? - Dude, you need a Tic Tac. You know what your breath smells like? Dunham. Dot com. What the hell is that? - What? - What'd you just do? - I didn't do anything. Did you see that? Oh my god! You fricking picked your nose! - What? a very good job. There's still something there. - Cut it out! - You gotta get it. - Stop! - Stop it! - Oh wait, you're a That'd be funny as hell! Oh and give it a French accent. Ah, bonjour. I would like to come out (Peanut grunts) All right, we have worked our It currently has over 51 million views. It's Achmed the Dead Terrorist has a son. What I want you to do is I just want you to look over there while so you won't peek. - Okay. - Wait a minute, when I'm not looking are you going to kill me? - No. a good way of doing it, you know. Kind of old school but effective. It's like hey, look at that (grunts). - No, just look over until I say so. - Okay, whatever. This is kind of like Christmas, huh? - Yeah, so just look over there. - Okay. - Okay, I'm not gonna Now? - Okay. (audience cheering) (both screaming) Who the hell is that? - Hello, father. - It's your son, Achmed Junior. - AJ? - That's right. - Wait, I thought you were dead. - Surprise. - This is great. - Hey, what happened to your face? Oh yeah, my bad. - Achmed, he's your son. Look at him, what do you see? - Well, he does have my eye. (laughs) - Actually I do, yes I do. - Why do you sound like Elton John? - When you were separated he was raised in England. - Did my mom miss me? - Uh yeah, I don't know, what the hell. - How do you not know? - Oops. - What's wrong with your leg? - Nothing! What's wrong with my leg? - Can you fix this? - No, I don't think so. - Damn it. - Don't look at me. - We're gonna get Marnell to help us. Marnell, he worked. Come fix my leg! - Thank you. - Thanks. - He's kind of cute. - Okay, moving on! - Wait a minute, how do you not know who his mother is? - I had 46 wives, you idiot. They all dressed the same - How'd you tell them apart? - The numbers on their backs. - That's terrible. - I know, Mother's Day's a bitch. And so are most of the mothers. - That's not funny at all. - Atal, who is Atal? Was she your mother, I don't remember a woman who was all bulgy eyed like you. - Bulgy eyed? - Well look at him. - Well, you're not exactly squinting. - At least my face is balanced. You managed to look asleep and terrified all at the same time. - [Jeff] Achmed, he's your son. - Well, the apple doesn't and apparently this one got run over by a fucking lawnmower. - You caused the accident. - Accident, it was a huge explosion with great fire and destruction. - You didn't mean for it to happen. - I did too! - Oh shit, Marnell! Son of a bitch. - Are you talking to me now? - Fix it right or I kick your ass! Marnell, come back! My arm is stuck in my pelvis, you asshole. - He can fix my pelvis any time. - Shut up! - Okay look, so the explosion how did it happen? - Very precise and careful planning. - Not exactly. - What happened? - He was putting gasoline in his scooter. - So why was there an explosion? - Shit happens. - He was using his cell phone. - Really? - While putting gas in your scooter. You know that's dangerous. - Well it was your mother who called. - Really? - What was her name? - And you guy haven't - Not much, he's a bad son. - I am not. for my birthday. - It was an honest mistake. - What'd you send him? - He sent me a bottle of skin lotion. - He made it worse. - What'd you do? - I sent him back half a bottle. - You know, maybe you should - Looks like he needs (audience laughing) - That I'm here for a reason. - What a skin graft, sorry, I'm all out. Fuck, Marnell, come fix my fucking leg! Get Duck tape, you asshole! - He actually brought Duck Tape. (audience cheering) - He's kinky too. - So Achmed, do you know why AJ is here? - Well, wait a minute. This isn't some crap about That bitch! Whichever one she was. - Not, that's not-- because I've seen the crap and I don't know how you - Thank you. - Did I say that just how you wrote it? - Yes, thank you. - Okay, good luck with the judge. I hope he's fair. - Actually the judge is a woman. - You're fucked. - Okay, listen you. - Achmed, you're getting hostile. - Of course I'm getting hostile, You piss me off I kill you. - Would that really solve anything? - Pretty much yeah, I think it does. - Okay. - I have nothing in - Well just talk to him. - How? like you would anybody. - Okay, WTF? OMG, I mean OMA. - And you have no idea why he's here. - To start his training as a terrorist. - No father, that's just it. I don't want to be a terrorist. - But I want you to be just like me. - Well, I'm not and I won't be. - Achmed, can you accept that? - I guess I can try. - And AJ, what if he doesn't accept it? - I kill you. - That's my boy! (audience cheering) - Hey everybody, we here in Indianapolis. - And it was also fun, I killed. (laughs) - And now we've made - And it is Meet Achmed - From our Comedy Central special in 2007, &quot;Spark of Insanity.&quot; - This started it all for me, enjoy. - Number one. - Good evening, Achmed. - Good evening, infidel. - So you're a terrorist. - Yes. I am a terrorist. - What kind of terrorist? - A terrifying terrorist. Are you scared? - Not really, no. (Achmed growls) - And now? - Not really, no. (Achmed grunts) - How about now? - No. Oh, oh, I mean Allah damn it. Silence! I kill you! - So Achmed. - No, no it's Achmed. - That's what I said. - No you said Achmed, Silence! I kill you! - How do you spell it? - How do you spell your name? - Oh let's see, A-C, phlegm. Silence! I kill you! - So Achmed, if you're a terrorist I would suppose you have - Yes, I am a suicide bomber. - Ah, so you're finished. - What? - You've done your job. - But you're dead. I feel fine. - But you're all bone. Silence! I kill you! What the hell happened to my feet? Son of a bitch, what the hell! All right then, what the hell, what are you doing, stop it, what are you doing? Stop touching me! I kill you! - All right, just hold on, we'll fix this. - Okay, wait, what are you doing? Holy crap, I'm in the air. Wait, wait. Wait, something is backwards, holy crap. I need some ligaments! - Just sit still. - Okay, I will not move my ass. - [Walter] You idiot, - Is that Walter? - Yeah. - He scares the crap out of me. Please do not put me back - Why? Saddam's mustard gas was nothing (Walter laughing) It's not funny, he will kill us! - All right listen, Achmed, - What? - You really are dead. - Are you sure? - Yes. - I just got my flu shot. - You really are dead. - Wait, if I'm dead that Are you my virgins? I hope not. - Why? of ugly ass guys out there. If this is paradise I've been screwed. - Well did they say it would - Holy crap! Silence, I kill you! (upbeat music)