Make no mistake about it, the tsunami of Chinese electric Europe is sleepwalking Decarbonization is leading to and the competition Sometimes it feels on the same rules If it's not fair, we use our trade As long as the European starts to feel much Europe needs to become in the entire process, the end product, In ten years, how you think we will I hope that we talk something between 10 to 15. If the European car industry the Nordics would be the critical raw materials needed to make it happen. The Nordic countries [soft music plays] The Aitik copper mine the largest open Doctor Peter Tom Jones, an environmental scientist argues there is a in Europe to counter And for these mining methods Responsible mining means safe working conditions while And more environmentally because the demand for critical materials will These materials will be needed to eliminate the dependency The Director of the Sustainable Metals and What if we would show What if we would take for our green technologies from mine to electric vehicles? Is that possible? My answer is yes, we can. Here in the Nordic countries, they have the technologies, and (explosion) Even in a geopolitically with the Russian the threat posed everlasting Middle the Nordic countries according to the Bloomberg The Nordic countries in terms of industry, with Finland just leading In terms of the overall ranking, China is the undisputed leader of their natural resources With the arrival of the brand there is new hope less dependent But, isn't it too Take, for instance, The European car most flourishing but, with the rapid explosion everything is changing [lively music plays] In the coming years, the Chinese car a much larger Chinese electric 40% cheaper than making them much more attractive An electric car is basically It needs a lot of a lot of critical raw materials. These are the two things that which makes it difficult Electric vehicles require about than conventional The battery contains lithium, The motor requires based on rare earth metals such as neodymium. EVs also contain more inside the electric motor. As a result, EVs need more than double the copper Everybody knows with loads of critical metals. However, what to many is that Europe, in fact, also has, in its bedrock, that we can exploit and extract. Kiruna in the very 200km above the Arctic Circle. At the beginning of 2023, rare earth metals here, known as the This discovery for the green transition. Doctor Jones is allowed to go as close as possible -Hello. Welcome to Kiruna. Ulrika will be his guide. We have chosen a beautiful day Yes, it's fantastic it's wonderful Kiruna weather. However, under the ground, No, it's kind of hard. We're now going into the car and driving about 1,000 to see one exploration tunnel. One thousand meters, A thousand meters? No. It's 1,000 meters underground, what I think is, the deepest in the world. [car engine rumbling] The Per Geijer deposit is more accessed by kilometers of I guess you can get lost here Yes, you can get lost, but, there are emergency If you just follow them, but you'll get out I've visited a lot but this is a experience, an underground mine. But, it's very important to the exploration Per Geijer rare earth deposit, where we hope also to Neodymium is developing strong for electric cars In our labs in Leuven, a lot of tests to show how iron boron magnets can be, and it's really spectacular. This is a neodymium magnet. We put a magnet here, so let's [chimes playing] This magnet can lift over a These are the magnets and this is what we'll be Today, Europe is on China for imports and China's alarming price In 2011, China implemented leading to a temporary and this could In order to mine at this depth, a mini city has been Wow, this is a Yes, it is and it's the same... The mine is operated from here, [soft music plays] We have coffee rooms, Wow, this is really impressive. I did not imagine you could make offices like this, It's safe here, No, it's safe here. It takes too long so we have restaurants both What's happening here? What is all this? This is where we load and work Instead of being we can sit here using joysticks, PlayStation at Yes. Dr. Peter Tom Jones gets -How do I move? But, that's easier Now, he thinks What are we doing? With all this automation, are you one of the most Yes, we aim to be. -You aim to be. You're not yet, are you? I can't specifically tell you but that's our goal. To be one of the modern, or the We have come a pretty long way Since the discovery miners have been drilling a to Europe's largest It contains about 1.3 million including neodymium, Are we seeing the end or the end of the beginning? It's up to you to choose. -Hello. Welcome to the exploration rift We finally made it How far are we of the Per Geijer deposit here? Approximately five kilometers, but the total length rift is around eight kilometers. You still need to dig five -We have a lot of water here. If you look at the it's from the drill rig. It's not water from the surface it's from the drill Here we have reached which symbolizes Five kilometers further, we have the Per Geijer which can provide us that we need for a clean mobility, and us to set up the from mine to electric But the mine gives The city is literally sinking One hundred and has taken its toll. [folk music plays] We have a shake every night During the day, but the mountain is setting. Do you already see of that on the houses Yes. They start cracking Six thousand Kiruna residents, are forced to relocate. The old houses are Here, behind the blue fences, you can see the beginning These buildings Of course, it gives a a bit of loneliness, of the How do you feel psychologically about the fact that No, everybody here accepts it. I'm positive about it. I think it's great. I like it. I'm working in the mines, It's necessary for Kiruna so If you live in an apartment that and if you live in an apartment you get money for it. If we cannot take up there's no Kiruna. Kiruna won't survive. Just a few kilometers away they are building We stand here in front an iconic building as the most beautiful Six hundred tons of wood, and the strange thing that it will be because of the How are they going I have no idea, but they claim One group of people who is the indigenous They have lived with Fishing, hunting and are central to Sami culture are all under threat from Hello, Stefan. Boris Boris, welcome to Sapmi. Thank you Yes, thank you I have some questions for you. I don't know if it's safe Yes, of course, why not? I have no food. Reindeer husbandry is Yes, it is. Following my ancestor's choice Yes. I understand that way of living is from the mining potential expansions -Yes. Yes, the green transition from the European Union the indigenous We are not entertainment for We have the right to continue and reindeer husbandry and we obviously do so. [soft music plays] During large periods in the Sami reindeer are free to the northern parts and Norway. The mining expansion is as the landscape is fragmented. is more than the Sami culture, Climate change affects everything It also affects animals. Parasites and diseases that we have never seen before. I feel your pain, absolutely. On the other hand, of course, we can't make a transition When the metals are available isn't there a possibility that is socially, ecologically, We can live without metals, If we don't have the possibility as indigenous peoples, we have for our cultural survival. One of the few remaining climate change for coming and it will be lost forever. It is not only in the Amazon but also up here You don't see any possibility a model in which with the mining companies here? Not if it's the who sit with the The Sami fear that they climate neutral solutions Jones fully supports for a less consumerist society in his personal life. But in a world of 9.7 a solution is needed I really feel and understand However, it is a and we also have to look at this To meet the climate targets, The question is, where are Are we going to mine in atrocious, in regions where Or are we going to try to do it where we do it in That is the fundamental [soft music plays] A majority is in favor of more mining here in the A minority is against it: the indigenous Sami and a But what does the mining -Nice to meet you. Thank you for having me here. Dr. Jones meets with to discuss the energy transition Here in the north the impression people are in favor of critical metals... which is likely to be Do you have any specific plans and get them on board The most important thing with the Sami and What I think is important, as a mining company, is that the most important will be how to deal Now, when we are Scandinavia, here, the climate Sami can see it themselves, as their reindeer Their culture is being affected. Of course, we need and say the only way is to reduce our enormous consumption of There is only one and that starts in the mine. The whole climate about how to get and minerals that make it to store this What's Jan Mostrom's opinion of lithium, cobalt, and nickel, three essential elements Yes, we have these critical For instance, look at this map that highlights all known There are loads of them. In your educated guess, how many new mines do you think -Oh. I hope that we talk about at least something but I think that is a stretch, Can I say 15 years? I hope that we will have so we perhaps talk about I think we have a critical mass that understands but not in my backyard. We have to find a way of Yes, sorry, but for the and we have to the deposit is where it is, you can't move it, it's not like if you want to have a The deposit is there. Can we develop model, which is more community-centric model, where the local community also profits directly I think so. We have quite a good local understanding and You even have the acceptance that they will have to move part Actually, we are moving two towns, both You're moving the 600-ton church That's correct. Good luck with For the majority Dr. Peter Tom Jones advocated where mining was regarded In recent years, however, he has So I must admit I have changed To make the transition we need the massive wind turbines, batteries. This is only possible if we of lithium, nickel, And to provide these metals But obviously we need to do it We need responsible mining. In the Nordic countries, this responsible way of At Aitik in the north of a significant part of their It's going to be fun. [truck driving] There's a rumor that are better drivers -I agree. -Yes, I agree. I think we are gentle Do you have more patience? We think about safety. So the male drivers and the female drivers -Yes. What you can see here We are sitting driven by a female employee. You can only see that When the electrification Boliden will save up to 30 and this is only mining company climate neutral by 2050. So what makes this mine so different from all in the rest of the world? I think actually when you you would feel that it is but very much the devil is We work, for the health and To be here is just as safe or to be a taxi driver, it's one of the most Due to the very low grade We have to work a lot in all parts of the production. Does that mean that you need more chemicals Actually, here we use less and also we work a lot with with less environmental instance, being Still, environmentalists you're creating a What are you going to do there? So we have of course an but we also work with the increase the biodiversity the loss of biodiversity So actually to have But the immense waste production of the mining industry. This copper mine million tonnes of This waste is stored in a If responsible mining it is essential to tackle Acid mine drainage is the for all sulphidic mining Here they have separating the from the low sulphur fraction they are finding opportunities and towards lowering the overall environmental And this zero waste approach Through the from the tailings remaining minerals friendly building products. Today, the main focus at Aitik a metal that is used and is also an essential element for the transition Lithium is the poster boy for Why should we I have a piece of copper I think what you need to is the bread and especially when talking and our plans for green energy. We will need a lot more copper. Does that mean that copper It is now listed on the EU list of critical and If it's listed, then it means about the security of supply. If you think of rare you might cover the However, with copper, you would probably need Ten mines of this -Yes. I'm dead serious Okay. A lot of people are claiming Others would say the problem by recycling more. The thing is, you you don't have in the cycle yet. For nickel, cobalt, we need a primary input first. Maybe in 20 or 25 years, and we can fully rely and we won't need What's the policy of In the last ten years, almost no However, since the Russian importance of securing resources Today, I have a meeting the Executive Vice President If someone can move the needle, I'm really curious Maros Sefcovic is of the Critical and the European He is also responsible of the European Green Deal. You have a very popular name. I mean I know, being into pop The meeting is friendly, what's his vision on I know that mining had a bad but we are in a with different We know how to do it in Europe. We just have to have a where we will prove, look, Then Member States and investors in European mining. The typical number that we hear is that we need at least for energy transition Do you think this is realistic? To have 13 mines open and be able to process the years is very ambitious even I would say we need to go The mining had this but I think We would be the this planet because This is how we do things. I have seen recently that in terms of mining in Europe but the investment mood hasn't. We still see that to put their money rather than in mines. How do we get the I would say that the same mood was there five years ago When I started with the there was also lots of but what the are the first and then the mood changes. However, we need to make it for investors to [lively music plays] Mining the metals in they also need to refined into high purity metals. A factory in Finland This is the heart of the Three people manage Of course, we have a separate control room for but this is part of the smelter. In the past industry has moved who dominates metals even more Can you explain to me why the in the refining business lithium, rare earth metals, They have been processing technologies Plus, they have been sourcing for their processes globally. How can we then still What's our We have to be more efficient. We have a smelter In China, I would guess there working in a similar plant. Isn't it beautiful? This is the anode copper. Some spills during the casting. In my opinion, this Are the European metals and environmentally Take the example of nickel. The difference in ton of produced Emissions here in Finland are the global nickel powerhouse. This is thanks to the used in Finland, I would say the main reason is we are minimizing the use of Instead, we utilize is contained in the concentrates and oxidize it, which for smelting the material. You are producing Are your customers a premium for your fair metals? At least some of the customers are aware of the importance For example, windmill farmers low CO2 copper, Also on electric vehicles, we are looking Could we go one step further and on dirty materials It would be fair for European because sometimes it feels with the same rules Important news for the because the European Our message is very simple: pay the fair carbon or pay it at the We are no longer going to allow as you said, for producing and lower our carbon by cheap carbon-intensive It will not be easy We have to make sure We are starting this reporting phase Then once we are the mechanism and methodology, we start to introduce levies. Here in the Nordic countries, metals are and environmentally I would like to call an analogy to fair-trade coffee For those products, we are a premium. We should be doing accept that also pay a higher [string music plays] Why is Europe counting to resist the Chinese wave? What's their secret? Here in Espoo, the capital of research centers led by the Finnish state-owned I see so many brand-new Do all these buildings I would say that every and the other building According to Bloomberg Finland is number one worldwide and infrastructure, in the global battery They are just ahead Congratulations, Paivi, Yes, that's true, it's Yes, to be serious, with the industry. This is perhaps something Many countries the industry to be No, it's absolutely We want to work and that's why we have invested so that we can improve In pilot factories, researchers If proven successful, they In this plant, VTT is to recycle critical metals and the world of batteries Paivi, how can these Chinese With the current it's very difficult. is developing One example is this kind The idea here is critical raw materials. This kind of battery to be used in Are there other examples Yes, we do have. This one is the lithium-ion This means that the is much higher What would that mean in terms of the range of such That could be perhaps 50 percent longer than with I guess the Chinese are also Yes, that's true. Everybody is working and there are different kinds Research and innovation are key, because also in the domain Europe has some The global battery manufacturing sector is dominated Guess who? Yes, correct. China has 77 In the Finnish city is going to speak to the US-born production director where they assemble for all kinds of electric cars Today we're working Thank God for that, It's important to have Yes. Valmet Automotive has to compete with We're going to take two cells then, we'll use six total cells, to build After the 12 become the battery and build the full battery Are you already feeding a lot in your plant here? Currently, we're not utilizing materials for the cells, actually mostly The cells currently We do have the future to utilize as long as they meet requirements for Ideally, they would come from a plant in Sweden, Absolutely, we're proud to make batteries here in and we would love to get Okay, wonderful. The final product is still about In 10 seconds we can be there? -Yes, if you run. Driven by the EU ban on engine vehicles by 2035, gigafactories in However, the and the United and Europe will need to be innovative to This is what we call This is the future where we have a robot working side by side and it allows us to more stable, and safely. Does this offer a competitive I think that this is where we can compete With this automation, we can help drive and therefore compete on One of the things is our education In Finland, for highly developed and it allows us to to then compete with So, of course, we have less [lively music plays] The battery manufacturing but China still has a big lead. These battery factories preferably also from Europe. What we need to catch up is the battery production and That's why we're investing a lot of money, actually in the research I believe that capacity in the built in Europe for the cost of batteries I think one of the are more expensive in Europe is that the system In China, they've job of building the They have everything from to the cell factories In Europe, that's what we need. We are striving to catch up, Do you think we can catch up? I do think we can because I think the world in the last couple of years. I have read in a Chinese that their lead is unassailable Yes, but somebody once said and we saw how that turned out. Nothing is impossible. Here we can see that we build in This is a mild hybrid battery for European customers. Today I've become very hopeful This is a battery made in but in the future Produce the batteries produced in a that is served with I'm definitely not claiming are the solution If you just replace all our we would still be in traffic However, it is a symbol that we need to have in terms We need to electrify Electric cars, electric bikes, electric buses, These are all part The last step in the production of In Uusikaupunki in Finland, Dr Jones visits another site This independent vehicle a very flexible and including electric cars I always say that we can whether it's a with a steering wheel There are no restrictions We have a long the first electric vehicles, -2009? We have built the competence and China makes electric vehicles 40 How can we survive in Europe? We see that more as an We are independent manufacturers so we are serving Like many major Valmet Automotive is partly China's CATL has 23 This could also be a reason as an opportunity, Today they are only producing so it's in their interest to do well. Ursula von der Leyen anti-subsidy investigation, wants to raise trade Do you think that's a good idea? I think it's a good idea, but, like I said, to start a trade war who are anyway There needs to be some kind Joe Biden is offering when an American buys a What should Europe do? Germany has had incentives. When you buy an electric decisions and that -EUR7,500? I don't remember Not only that, but Joe Biden is also directly the refineries, and Every single step in the supply Business is business. I think Europe has to come up on how to create more jobs or more awareness As a European, yes, I don't think that much of Tariff is one. We know that it's different and there might also As long as the European starts to feel much Time is running out will enter the European A tsunami of relatively cheap Europe must act fast could lead to In Europe, we are but we also want If it's fair, If it's not fair, simply use our trade because we shouldn't repeat I think we paid The innovation came let our market be captured It's the same for wind turbines Therefore we're having discussions with We never thought but the geo-economics so much over the that there is no other choice. There is one more challenge of Valmet Automotive. Can he produce an electric with 'Made in Europe' A vehicle that is those arriving per The NGO 'Transport they are producing a vodcast to produce in Europe, a car Do you think that At the moment, as we speak, A service provider like us we can meet the challenge. We can start meeting I'm not saying Finland to produce something. That's not the case. However, in comparison, we are also not the 'Transport &amp; Energy' should contact you to develop Yeah, they should I will give them -Yeah. We are always ready to talk. Yes. The earlier we as a First of all, whether that product Secondly, we can bring our engineering to get it So you also have an impact on Yes. When the product is part of that process I think we can do it So in 2025, we can produce, You give me the product -Okay. Brilliant! [lively music plays] Slowly, Europe is waking up. What we really need where decarbonization with deindustrialization. So let's go for clean technologies, and the Nordic countries