This is the Iveco S-Way 530 of truck driver Christiane Eucker from Vreden on the German-Dutch border. Christiane has been working for the Munsterland forwarding company KLM Transporte from Vreden for seven years and specializes in Europe-wide tours. The 48-year-old actually trained as an office clerk, but it was only as a professional driver that she found her true fulfillment. But it is wrong to believe that Christiane is on a journey of emancipation with this task. Nevertheless: How did your social environment react to this career change? My immediate family said, OK, just do it. We know you, if you think you can do it, try it, do it. My father in particular shook his head for a long time, but now he has accepted it. And my other social circle simply said: You know what, do it! And Christiane does. The truck and she have long since become a solid team. She, the mother of two adult daughters, who is simply called "Kiki" by her friends, and the Iveco S-Way, which Christiane has nicknamed Galileo. How did the truck get this name? Yes, my truck is called Galileo. Because Galileo Galilei changed the world. And we both do that a little bit too. Even if it's just our own. A relationship with my truck, of course. I trust him with my life every day. I travel with him day and night. He's the first thing I see in the morning. He's the last thing I see at night. The fact that you give your truck a name yourself and build a relationship with it like I do now is completely abnormal. But what is normal? Christiane Eucker starts work at 6 a.m. at a mechanical engineering company in Munsterland. A feed container for a biogas plant with a width of three meters must be charged there. This will later turn the transport into heavy transport. But before that happens, many attachments have to be stowed away. It is immediately noticeable that Kiki is completely in her element here. Loading here will now take two hours. There are small parts that all need to be secured. Then the vehicle has to be prepared for the overwidth afterwards, i.e. take out the overwidth sign, put the warning light in the back and so on and so forth. So just driving around is not possible. Now things are getting really tight. The Iveco S-Way must be driven from the company premises into the hall. No problem for Kiki, because the dimensions of the truck and trailer have long since become second nature to her. Transports like this are on the agenda too often. And she has already traveled to large parts of Europe for this company. Once again it is noticeable that Kiki leaves nothing to chance when it comes to securing the load and is not even bothered by the fact that the men do nothing to watch her work. Her motto: The woman is herself! So I prefer to do it myself. Because if you want it to be good, you better do it yourself. I'd rather rely on myself. If I can't figure it out at all, I'll ask. Then I get help from a man. But that a man in particular is helping me now, no. I don't want to either. Now all you have to do is load up the final parts to assemble the feed bin and then secure everything properly. The extra width board is already attached. Minutes later, Christiane gets into her truck and sets off towards Odenwald. Heavy transport, even if it is not that heavy, is simply her world. What we have here is extra-wide transport. We are three meters wide instead of the regular 2.50 meters. Of course, to the layman, this all looks a bit spectacular. For us, heavy transport becomes spectacular at 3.50, 4.00 meters, when we drive with a support vehicle, when we drive with the police, when we drive on the motorway with support vehicles, that is heavy transport for us. This is also heavy transport, of course, but on a small scale. Christiane's destination is almost 80 kilometers behind Frankfurt. Time enough to ask what experiences she actually had with the new Iveco. Or, What does he have that others don't have - and what makes him something very special for them? The S-Way is well thought out. It's mature. This is a sensible working tool. Of the 530 hp I get 500 hp on the rear axle. If I shift it reasonably well, I can climb any incline reasonably well, even when unloaded. It's easy to trade, it's the whole package. Constant rain on the highway, but time flies. Shortly before Frankfurt the driving time has already expired, which means Christiane has to call it a day. For many truck drivers, the arduous search for a parking space now begins. So the nightly chaos has already broken out. But Kiki has no problems with it this time. A truck driver gave way directly in front of her. Yes, we have now covered almost 290 kilometers. We were really lucky that we got a place here at the Bad Camberg service area in the heavy-duty lane. Yes, I'm going to take a quick breather now. Then I think I'll go get something to eat. And then go to bed early. Sleeping with your head on the highway is the advantage of being a heavy-duty truck driver. Yes, we'll continue tomorrow morning around 5 a.m. There are still 150 kilometers left . The planned arrival is around 7 a.m., the crane will be there at 8 a.m. and then we'll see. Kiki is now using this time to talk to her partner on the phone. Because, like her, he is also a truck driver and is now off work. The next morning at half past seven, Christiane Eucker is already standing in the Odenwald with her S-Way. A crane truck also arrived with her, with the help of which the multi-ton feed container for the biogas plant is to be unloaded. The crane truck driver and Kiki hit it off straight away. And the man has respect for what women do in this profession. Completely normal, like every human being. There is no longer any difference between men and women. The woman does the work just like a man. And that's the case even in the crane industry, where there are now very, very many women driving cranes, large cranes, and they are actually very technically versed. And once again it's tight at the unloading point. Christiane has to go backwards into this hall. But why get upset when you've done something like this dozens of times and can rely on the maneuverability of your truck. I have to go backwards into the hall via the right. That is, a little more confusing. But: Iveco is very easy to maneuver, so I'm less worried about it. It's very tight here, but with a little feeling and calm, we'll get there, because we can't get anywhere with hectic and panic. But before you go into the hall, the parts supplied must first be unloaded. This means the use of forklifts and of course the help of Christiane. Now the crane truck drives into the hall and then finally the Iveco S-Way with the loaded feed container for the biogas plant. Kiki's fears about the narrowness and the entry angle of the hall are confirmed. It simply doesn't work without a guide . She has to back and forth several times until the truck actually reaches its final unloading point and the crane truck driver can do his job. Kiki also gets out of her truck satisfied and is happy that everything worked out. So yes, it was definitely a challenge here and I'm also glad that I had a sensible guide with me, because you can see that you don't do things like this alone, it's teamwork. Worked. I'm definitely happy. Galileo is in there without any problems, I'm fine, the goods are fine. So the job in the Odenwald is ticked off, so to speak. Christiane drives the truck out of the hall. Actually, she can go home now. If it were n't for crane truck driver Michael Ammerbach, who thanks the truck driver. See you next time. And Christiane also takes a real load off her heart. I'm proud of myself that I managed it again and that everything went well . We will now calmly drive back to the location. Then there is the next order and it is carried out with the same care and love as usual processed and then we'll see what else happens. So it went really well. I'm really happy with myself and Galileo. That's exactly what Kiki likes about her job: satisfaction and the feeling, day after day, of having really achieved something. No matter whether it is long distances, bulky freight or other tasks. You and your Galileo are real partners and can simply rely on each other.