- If you're talking to Elon or with Elon and you get that you need to be concise, quick. - There's definitely 2:00 AM texts and 6:00 AM conference calls. - When I used to go I used to always stop by our barista and I would get a couple and then go into the meeting. - He has never said this, You have 30 seconds to make your point. - [Narrator] Elon Musk is known by his employees to be intense. When he took over Tesla in 2008, he sent the company into crisis of how to reinvent the auto industry. Now he appears to be using a similar management We spoke with former to better understand how Musk became known for his cutthroat and and what that may mean (audience cheers) Step one for Musk is to rally employees around a lofty company mission. (tool bangs and whirs) It's exactly what inspired Carl Medlock to join Tesla in 2009. - We were all so excited about the brand. I mean, we were all working We kinda lost track of our hobbies, and all that stuff, but we loved what we were doing. I never once had Elon or saw Elon do a rah-rah meeting like that. - [Narrator] Medlock now runs his own electric vehicle He said he was terminated over a misunderstanding Garrett Reisman was similarly inspired by the mission of SpaceX - It's a very demanding environment, but by and large it's not You know, making human getting to Mars, having a colony on Mars. It's something that motivates pretty much everybody there at SpaceX. - [Narrator] Reisman left SpaceX in 2018 to teach astronautical engineering at the University of Southern California. He said that after seven years at SpaceX, he wanted to work somewhere less intense. Yet at Twitter, the mission - They are talking about which of course is important, but it is not as dramatic - [Narrator] Tim Higgins is a for the &quot;Wall Street Journal&quot; a book that traces the rise - Well, the challenge at Twitter is what are the stakes? - [Narrator] Neither Elon Musk nor Twitter responded to requests for comment. The company's mission is what Musk hopes will drive people to be hardcore, a term he uses to describe at high intensity. - You just have to put in, you know, 80 hour, 80 to 100 hour weeks, every week. - I would see people 'cause we had finished up an event and we were all still energized 'cause we were having such a good time. - [Narrator] And Musk has to rally his team over the years as they approach hard challenges. For example, in 2012, when production of the Model S luxury sedan, Musk sent his team an email with the subject line, &quot;Ultra hardcore,&quot; telling them to prepare that most of them had About three weeks after Musk sent a similar email, but hundreds of employees rather than sign up for - The challenge here is Elon and he has to convince And we're seeing him try to go to find the talent that he's going to need to pivot the company to a - [Narrator] Musk himself - I sleep on the couch over there. Last time I was here I on the floor 'cause the - I showed up at work early one day, and it was just me and in the entire 5.5 million square feet. And I didn't know he was there, right? And at the factory, there's walkways and safety But when nobody's there, I just got on a bicycle, riding around, and here Elon is asleep - [Narrator] In November, Musk at Twitter's offices in San Francisco. And it's not just his time, but his money. - How much did you put into this company? - (exhales sharply) Oh, - In 2008, when Tesla and he put in his personal to fund it, he was even, in Menlo Park and paying with personal credit card debt, right? His approach is to do anything required to keep his businesses competitive, and he lived that every single - [Narrator] Konrad left Tesla in 2011 for Renault Nissan Mitsubishi. - People that I've talked to with Elon talk about how he in one but on the other hand a he was also exhausting and mercurial, and after a while they just - [Narrator] There is also at Tesla and SpaceX alleging Musk is also known to quickly When he became CEO of Tesla, he cut about 20% of the workforce. About a week after he took over Twitter, Musk laid off roughly 50% of the staff according to a document And people familiar with that likely over 1000 have resigned. Former employees have said that this cutthroat approach that anyone working for Musk - Back in the day at that people who work for - He wants to hire a key has way more value than, and to deploy those top talent and be able to move faster and not have the same kind - [Narrator] Former employees have said that Musk avoids traditional - If Elon was interested in he would come and talk directly to you. He's not gonna go through of management and have - [Narrator] Musk also motivates by raising the financial stakes. - When Elon became CEO of Tesla, the economy was in shambles. It was the Great Recession about whether people were and not just a luxury car, a (car door slams) Similarities to Twitter today, we've got an uncertain economy. The company needs to start It has a huge debt load. It has to find its place that's under a lot of pressure as the ad market, it kind of contracts. - [Narrator] In November, Musk wrote in an email that without significant there is a good chance the upcoming economic downturn. Musk is still in the early for Twitter and finding people he trusts to help him transform the company. - At SpaceX, if you proved innovative, especially then that led to very, throughout the company. - If I were an employee I'd probably just do your job. Don't let him know your name. (lighthearted music)