She won some Olympic medals, headed to is the story of the rise, downfall, Marion Jones initially found her way to athletics, specifically basketball and track, as a way of While in college at the University of North Tar Heel basketball team in 1994. She also met during her time at UNC. He worked as a track October 1998. From that point forward, she Jones dedicated herself to representing the Australia. Once she made the team, she declared her events. It was a bold declaration, to be At the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games, Jones competed 200 meters, 4x400-meter relay, 4x100-meter on achieving her goal of five gold medals. It though she did become the first woman to win gold in the 100, 200, and 4x400 while settling Her husband C.J. Hunter pulled out of the shot as her coach. Shortly after she won her first pre-Olympic drug tests. He tested positive for in a suspension and the loss of his coaching on Jones' drug-free image, and it didn't help Marion Jones and C.J. Hunter didn't have any kids still in the cards for Jones. After they split up, time the world record holder in the 100 meters. who was born prematurely. Shortly afterward, &quot;I am so happy. This is the greatest thing that and Tim and I could not be more excited.&quot; Though they had a son together, Jones and moved on to a new relationship with fellow who took the bronze in the 100 meters in a quiet ceremony in early 2007 Later that year, Jones and Thompson they welcomed a daughter named Eva-Marie. Texas, where Jones launched &quot;Is that good?&quot; Marion Jones' performance at the 2000 her handlers paraded her around the new opportunities to pursue off the track. on the game shows Pyramid and Who Wants to Be into the world of media was the 2003 IMAX and other &quot;uncommonly fast individuals&quot; with After Top Speed, Jones' media appearances This included one role on a scripted series, as she played herself on an episode Throughout her track and field career, Marion went all the way back to her time in high school was suspended from competing in track and field decision, claiming that she never received the famed attorney Johnnie Cochran to defend her, But that was only the beginning of this saga. for working with coaches who found themselves on her former husband and coach, C.J. Hunter, Jones' name also came up during the scandal aka BALCO. In 2002, the federal government implicated dozens of athletes in a systematic Jones vehemently denied that she used any test. She even went so far as daring the For years, Marion Jones maintained that her career. Unfortunately, though, there so the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency opened an testified that he personally helped inject 2000 Olympics. C.J. Hunter also admitted she never failed a test, so no But then in 2006, Jones failed a preliminary her urine. A subsequent test didn't find any the time being. But then on October 5, 2007, lying to federal investigators and to taking &quot;I have betrayed your trust.&quot; Lying to federal investigators is a crime, of five years in prison if convicted. She'd took a flaxseed oil supplement, but her admission Marion Jones ultimately pleaded guilty to two agents. Had she gone to trial, she probably but her plea deal reduced her time behind bars. along with two years of supervised release Jones begged the judge to limit her prison time, as she hoped to not be separated from zero to six months of confinement, so the sentence. She reported to jail on March Jones' crimes weren't limited to lying pleaded guilty to lying to investigators as records showed that she deposited $25,000 &quot;I was there for almost six months, and After admitting to lying for years about her was essentially over. The U.S. Anti-Doping from track and field, but Jones took it The USADA also disqualified every one of 2000, which required the forfeiture Soon after, the International Olympic and removed her stats from Olympic records. International Association of Athletics back to September 2000. Essentially, every her admitted steroid use became suspect Marion Jones' admission of guilt also Not only did she have to defend but she also lost some of her reliable Angeles Times reported that she had only her $2.5 million mansion in Chapel Hill, Furthermore, Jones lost a countersuit resulted in a $240,000 judgment for unpaid she missed out on five international competitions, height of her career, Jones earned as much as endorsement deals. But in 2007, she was let In addition to returning her medals, she was &quot;We all go through challenging times in our lives.&quot; &quot;Absolutely.&quot; Before focusing solely on track and it on the basketball court. She played three and even won the national championship her she returned to her roots in October Antonio Silver Stars. As she recalled &quot;I thought it would be an interesting would give me an opportunity to on a bigger platform; it would give me Jones eventually got that chance when she signed She played 47 games, but she was eventually cut one point per game in her 14 appearances of Jones had been drafted into the WNBA but she never played any games with the team. entitled Marion Jones: Life in Autobiography. There was one line in &quot;I am against performance-enhancing drugs. I have Of course, Jones' tune on that topic eventually mainly in the form of letters to her husband and and eventually published a memoir in 2010 entitled Finding Forgiveness and the Strength to Overcome over the years, how she fell into a pattern of detailed her experiences in prison, including &quot;I felt like my life was in I hit [another inmate] in the face with Marion Jones has experienced plenty of highs woman in the world at the 2000 Olympics, Games in 2004 in Athens, Greece, though she it all eventually came crashing down, though Jones and her family eventually settled in the Texas. She took a job with Camp Gladiator, for adults of any fitness level. Jones' background as a &quot;Former Olympian and calls herself a &quot;COACH&quot; in all capital &quot;It's a great organization if anybody is kind of starting out on a fitness journey In addition to personal training, Jones takes any her community. In February 2020, she accepted an Elementary School in northeast Austin during spoke about the importance of taking a break which has been her central message