- Hi there. It's Laura here, from I Heart Planners and today we're gonna a small kitchen. Tasha, on my team, has just with a smaller kitchen and I'm gonna let her show (upbeat music) - Hi guys, I'm Tasha from I Heart Planners and I am really excited some of my very best kitchen organization and storage hacks, with a kitchen that is a especially for what you're and you don't really know where That was me when I started in this kitchen and so I am so excited to share with you some of the things that I've done and I really hope that if there are some things that I missed, you comment below and let us know because I wanna know what you're using 'cause I might wanna use But we are gonna jump right in talking about what to do with like a crock pot, or an instant pot, or even an electric on a somewhat regular basis but you need off your counter space and out of your hair but it still needs to be easily accessible for those quick weeknight dinners. So let's jump right in. (upbeat music) So an unexpected space to find especially for those big appliances, is up here above your refrigerator. A lot of times, refrigerators and you have this empty space up here where you can store Your refrigerator can hold them just fine. They're out of the way but they're still pretty Now I will tell you, I'm to be this close to these appliances but you can get stepstools very cheap and they fold up nicely. I actually tuck it in between the wall and my refrigerator when I'm not using it and I also use it to reach in my kitchen. But items like your instant I have a crock pot up here. If you have a kettle or a multi cooker, up here is a great place to keep anything that is bigger that you but still easily accessible. (upbeat music) Now a big problem that you can run into in a small kitchen is not My kitchen has a big three underneath my bar top and that's probably about that I don't think could even hold a standard silverware holder if I wanted to put my So using unconventional wall space can actually make up for a These utensils right here, they're just hung with a nail and they are not just for decoration. I think they look pretty and so I love storage solutions whenever you use them. But it is super handy. I can just hang all of on a little nail in the wall. It looks cute and it because all of those utensils in my very limited drawer space. And they're also not all together in a canister on the counter because I really need those countertops for baking and cooking and So I love having those there. The other thing that I did with little spice jars, and as a side note, it if you put them in little Mason This is cut out with a And very easy, in this between cinnamon and cumin, because you do not want But these little racks, I from the container store. And they're holding all I keep a couple of spices up here that come in bigger containers that aren't gonna fit or that are just abnormal. I have some rubs and But your typical spices Then the other thing that is your oven mitts and your towels. And so I hung a basket and folded up towels to put in it. I made it match my colors, and actually, these towels, if I run out of towels, it'll be handy to have them, but I tuck folded towels back behind them and these are more for decoration because they match my kitchen colors. But you can for sure use in this basket right here, whenever they're all folded up together. So look for ways that you things that you can hang on the wall. A lot of utensils come that you can just hang them If you can't use nails, They make Command hooks and I use some of those in my apartment too. So be on the lookout for how to take things off your counter (upbeat music) Before I show you exactly how I lay out my one big kitchen my favorite kitchen organizational And that is the Joseph Joseph silverware and utensil organizer. I got it at the container store and the really cool thing about this is that it stacks all of your silverware in this little four-to-five and then leaves you all this to be organized. You just slide your spoons in here and they go nicely underneath and underneath where your knives will go, and then your small And typically your silverware organizer is gonna take up probably This is half the width of your with plenty of room for So we will be leaving the link down below and if there's one product I recommend from everything in my kitchen, it is this Joseph Joseph (upbeat music) All right, this is a quick look at how I organize the one and my number one tip if that you're trying to organize and keep your utensils contained is to have a container to contain them. The point is not to open the drawer and for it to look like for everything to have an outlined place, it's for you to be able so that everything isn't jostled around and you don't want stuff popping up and keeping you from being but if my utensils switch places it is really not the end of the world. They are still in the same area. I still know where to go to grab them, and it looks totally fine. So just keep everything Don't worry so much about the exact layout of your items in that area. Because most of these kitchen items, they don't fit together like a puzzle. They're made by different people, they're for different purposes, and so they just need a place to go where they can look reasonable. It doesn't have to look like Another tip that I have is if you are storing your make sure that it's that are gonna keep it from rolling around and messing up everything because it will roll around if you don't have it that are gonna keep it still. This is another Joseph Joseph product. I promise that we are not but they make some These spoons and utensils on top of each other and that just saves so This is four different hardly taking up any space at all. They also have that notch up there if you'd rather hang them on your wall. But that is the space-saving I believe, to be able to get your utensils to stack on top of each other. And lastly, these, underneath my knives, are cutting mats from Ikea. I got two of them for two dollars, so they are incredibly affordable, and it just completely cut out They're about the thickness and so I just set my It gives my knives a place to go, but they take up no room so I can just slide them out (upbeat music) All right, I know that it's but I wanted to show you, as best I can, my under-the-bar-top cabinet and how I utilize my cabinet space to the best of its ability. So the first thing to note, I know it's gonna be I have an over-the-cabinet I hold my handheld mixer and my grater in this basket right here, and these over-the-cabinet because whenever you set typically the space above for any storage because you're this is my George Foreman. I don't put something on I need to be able to grab it, but whenever you can use it's gonna fill this space right here whenever I close the door and I still get to utilize that space. Another great way to use that space is to hang things on the I have my strainer over here. It's hung by its handle on the side of the cabinet. And it really helps fill Deeper in my cabinet, I'm using the container store's wraps where you can stack them all together. And the other thing I do to save space is get matching nested I have, I believe, 11 and they take up about the space that one big food storage because they all stack instead of having to set and taking up all of that space. So as with everything anywhere that you can use vertical space, it is going to seriously It's going to save you for the other items that really quickly. (upbeat music) All right, so I wanted into where I keep all of my pots and pans. I love using Command hooks, so I use a Command hook to hanging right here on the door and my other two saucepans are leaning up against My largest saucepan is in the very back. Now you wanna be careful with putting stuff behind other things. Anything that you're gonna use more often, you wanna make sure that towards the front, because if you're either not going to use it, or you're not gonna keep it organized. So just make sure that your It matters that your kitchen looks like an Instagram-perfect kitchen. Then there on the top, I'm using a lid organizer and a few of my lids organized. And in this little tiny I can store six pots and (upbeat music) This is one of my favorite in my kitchen, and it serves as a little coffee bar entryway, and also as a really nice China cabinet. It was not something that I was ever envisioning but I did not have the cabinet space to keep all of my mugs, all of my dishes, and my cups and my plates in the cabinet. So I had to get creative. I got this little shelf and then I don't even remember how much my hanging shelf was, but it was probably not any more than 15, and I created a little coffee bar. All my coffee stuff sits right here. It's right in the entryway, but it doesn't look in your face. It just looks like a I put some candy in this little so people can come in and grab candy. I keep my diffuser right here so if I want to diffuse any oils, they can be right as you walk in, you can be greeted with and I keep all of my dishes on these shelves underneath, and all of my mugs up here. I also use it as a kind of I hang my keys and my so that they're right by the door. So it really serves a And if you have any space you can do some really creative things. I just used a really cheap shelf liner to make up for the holes that was making the shelves, so that everything can sit smooth and I really love it. (upbeat music) So one of the biggest when organizing a small kitchen is cabinet space for a pantry. Because this kitchen, let me tell you, definitely didn't come with a pantry. And sometimes, when people I wonder if they forget that in our kitchen as well, and So the question comes, all of your food, all of your appliances, all of your dishes, So I'm gonna show you, these and I think you're gonna be surprised at how little is in them right now, because I've been able to farm out what would normally be to other places in my kitchen, so they can be all pantry. And the other thing to the more pantry space I know we have this tendency to buy things because they're because we really think but then something came up and you never got around to it. I would highly recommend, that is expired, or spoiled It is taking up space. You are never going to use it. Go ahead and let it go. There's no guilt, no shame in that. Just go ahead and let it go. You're gonna be a lot happier when it's not taking up pantry space. The other thing is, there you probably realize you're They're perfectly good ingredients, sometimes they're still in the box. But you just realize, I am See if you can find a friend Get it out of your pantry, gift it to somebody who could use it, and that's gonna free up your space, so that the less that you the more space you're always going to have for the things that you need. So this is my pantry. And it's not even full. And that is because I've been able to put the dishes that would have I've been able to put all of and I put my baking goods elsewhere. And I'm gonna show you where in my kitchen I put each of those things. My one note about a pantry: I would recommend for items like onions, coming up with some sort of container that has a solid bottom to keep them in. I keep my onions in this cute little crate that says lemonade on it. I got it at Target for three dollars. But the onions or garlic, anything that has that skin it can make a really so if you keep it in something it is so much easier to clean up later. (upbeat music) A great place to look for is up above your cabinets. This space typically gets forgotten, just collects a lot of dust and grime, but you can make it look very beautiful and make it very You don't have to just make it look like you threw a bunch of stuff because you didn't know In this case, I just got from Walmart, and I put labels on them and put all my dry baking goods in them. And so those goods are not taking up space in my limited shelf space, and I did not have to for OXO or Rubbermaid or Tupperware. Those products are amazing, and someday, if my entire pantry is Rubbermaid or OXO, I will be very happy, but organizing my pantry right now. So if you are just looking for without spending the big bucks, get the cheaper Tupperware. If you've been keeping in your pantry, you if your canisters are not airtight. So there were three to four dollars each. Far cheaper than what on some of those airtight containers. But if you do have them, I think they're beautiful. Above your cabinets is a The other tool that I'm is this can organizer right above my head. I don't have very many cans right now. I wish I could show you better but it's three-tiered and three to four cans deep. So that is so much cabinet above my cabinets into a confined area because we're using vertical space. The more often you can use vertical space, the more space you're (upbeat music) One thing to consider when is what spaces are close to your kitchen that you can store some And for me, that was this I didn't have a good so I keep my trash can in the coat closet. I have a lid on it so I making the entire coat closet smell. And it really keeps my 'cause I did not have the to set a trash can anywhere. I also keep my aprons right here inside the door, super easily accessible And if you happen to have something like a box of 225 sour straws the shelf in your coat for sealed stuff like that too. (upbeat music) I hope you enjoyed this little walkthrough through my kitchen and how I organize and how I come up with ways to store everything in Like I said at the beginning, if there is something from this list, comment below, I may well want to use so we want to hear from you. We want to hear what you think, and if you use any of take a picture, post it in the comments. We wanna see how it works Also be sure to like and subscribe to the I Heart Planners channel if you want even more organizing goodness. (upbeat music) Using this space up here, once again, instead of letting it... So an unexpected space. Especially if you've been keeping your flour and sugar and dry goods just in the bag, in your pantry, you do not have to invest in airtight (sighs) Now if you have OXO or that you keep your dry above the (sighs) Cabinet, cabinet, cabinet. It can hold your standard vegetable cans, I have my marinara sauce and and it's three-tiered, and it is holding cans all the way back. (Whispering) Oh my goodness. Okay, the other item I have is this can organizer right above my head. See, I don't have a ton of cans right now just because I wasn't in need but it's a three-tiered can holder that can hold three to four Another great place to look