What is inside a black hole? Inevitable crushing doom? Gateways to other universes? Weird, multidimensional libraries? If you've ever wanted to know then you might you're inside a black hole right now. Einstein's ridiculously successful general But we know it must: at the centers of black Both of these involve matter being packed where the mathematics of GR breaks down. Well it turns out that black holes and the They have mathematical similarities to ech other that have led some physicists to believe that the big bang is in fact the singularity of an absurdly Let's figure out how crazy this proposition First up, black holes. Collapse any chunk of matter far enough and In general relativity, that looks like a point horizon. We can think of the event horizon as the surface moving at the speed of light. Nothing can swim against that flow. From the outside, the black hole looks like in space, due to the fact that nothing that the event horizon. The universe also has a singularity and an The singularity is the Big Bang, which we of the universe when all matter was compressed overlapped. From the Big Bang space expanded, and it's That expansion gives us our event horizon. If space is expanding evenly everywhere, then that are being propelled away from us faster That means there's a surface at a particular observations - in that we can never know about This is the cosmological event horizon. Now it's somewhat more complicated - for objects that are now beyond that horizon, they crossed the horizon. Also, the accelerating expansion of the universe to us than the spot where recession equals But the effect is the same: no events that seen. Complications aside, there are striking similarities The obvious difference is that the black hole density in space, while the big bang singularity is a time of infinite density that included all of space. Actually, that difference isn't as different Both the big bang and black hole singularities do occupy all of space - the difference is that the big bang singularity exists in the past exists in the future for all of the balck hole space. OK, now that last part probably needs a little more explanation. We've talked about an idea called geodesic our recent one on the center of the universe, the big bang. We're going to need that idea again, so In general relativity, objects that are not called a geodesic. These are the straightest paths that can be In a sense geodesics form the grid that defines It's possible to define a geodesic at some a ball thrown through the air - and then you That trace will define the path of the thrown the ball's trajectory. That would be the path that the ball would or the path through the ground that could And you can keep tracing the geodesic into the Big Bang - it's defined for all past Geodesics generally don't just end. Except at singularities. In fact, in general relativity, singularities are defined as the end points of geodesics. All geodesics in the universe come together We call the Big Bang a past, space-like singularity in the past. A black hole contains a future, space-like Which means that all geodesics within a black future. No, that doesn't mean you're doomed to I mean, you might, but you might not. The black hole singularity is the all-encompassing the event horizon in the same way that the for the outside universe. So the black hole and the big bang singularities are starting to look more alike. With the difference being, their residence in the future versus the past. And the fact that black holes are embedded within a greater universe While the big bang is the entire universe. How do we make a black hole look more like a universe? We'll need to make the black hole interior for somebody inside that black hole. The first step is to send that singularity A time-reversed black hole is easy enough. It's a white hole, and it's a valid a Naturally we've discussed them before. The past, space-like singularity of the white is the opposite to a black hole event horizon the outside. Space flows at the speed of light across the That's starting to look like our universe horizon that can't be crossed from the outside. But there's still an "outside" in which point in space. The outside that doesn't share the same singularity origin. On the other hand, anyone inside the white hole wouldn't know that. So could they be fooled into thinking they are in a regular universe? At first glance, despite the similarities like our universe. Now the white hole was "discovered" by messing around with the coordinates of the OG black hole solution by Karl Schwarzschild. Same trick gave us wormholes and mirror universes, in a previous episode. The interior of this type of white hole looks For one thing its made of pure spacetime - no The curvature changes dramatically as you But our universe appears to be highly homogeneous out, and it was even more evenly spread out And the space-time curvature is nearly flat, The spacetime of our universe is well described metric, which we also talked about in the But there is actually a way to fit an FLRW those inside it couldn't tell the difference. The very first "realistic" mathematical discovered in 1939 by Robert Oppenheimer - of Hartland Snyder They approximated the collapse of matter with a perfectly homogeneous density The thing collapses under its own gravity within the collapsing cloud the matter remains it becomes a singularity. Now real stars don't look like this. They get denser towards the center and have But the Oppenheimer-Snyder solution gave our And it also showed another weird other property. This assumption of homogeneity and zero pressure when he first solved the Einstein equations behind the FLRW metric. In fact you can describe the spacetime of inside a Schwarzschild metric. And that's true even after the black hole's So you can have what looks like a black hole from the inside, but looks like comfortably flat space inside the still-collapsing star. If it works for the black hole then it should Just flip the timel axis and you have a white that looks much like our universe. If such a white hole was big enough, it could This was the basic proposal by Indian physicist back in 1972. As far as I've been able to tell, no one true. There's also the idea that universes are of a black hole. That's the Cosmological Natural Selection In that case, black holes don't form singularities, a new spacetimes from the resulting white etc. OK, so we need one last ingredient to be able with: Are we in a black hole? In 1999, Stephen Hawking once showed that radiation in perfect equilibrium with the the cosmic microwave background - then the becomes unclear. They could be the same object. If you lump all of this together - a very them look like our universe from within, and Hawking's argument that equates white holes with black holes, then there's a roundabout way to argue we So is the universe a black hole? Or a white hole? Probably not. But not absolutely not. There's no good reason to believe that this We'd need some deeper explanatory value Cosmological natural selection might be a for that in order to proceed. However if we are in a black hole then there's of a black holes look like. It looks like this. And there are indeed libraries in this black hole. Perhaps, one day, one of the books in those If we're within the event horizon of a black/white hole, what's on the outside? Maybe a universe inhabited by people asking exactly the same question, with the same answer, that they are in a black hole and so on ad infinitum in a series of black