Between the first Europeans arriving population of the New World dropped by at The cause? Not the conquistadors and company -- they killed compared to what they brought with them: small plague, cholera, mumps, measles and more leapt then onward the microscopic invaders spread against them. Tens of millions died. These germs decided the fate of these battles Now ask yourself: why didn't the Europeans get If New-Worlders were vulnerable to old-world vulnerable to New World diseases. Yet, there was no Americapox spreading eastward from 90 million to 9. Had Americapox existed for transatlantic expansion. To answer why this didn't happen: we need the common cold -- from what we'll call plagues. 1. Spread quickly between people. Sneezes spread plagues faster than handshakes use more of this than this. 2. They kill you quickly or you become immune. Catch a plague and you're dead within seven it again. Your body has learned to fight it. in you, you can still spread it -- but it can't The surface answer to this question isn't fight off New World plagues -- it's that the New They had regular diseases but there was no These are history's biggest killers, and they But why? Let's dig deeper, and talk cholera: a plague job of separating drinking water from pooping it the cholera capital of the world. Cholera swaths of the population before moving onward. In a small, isolated group, a plague like victims, leaving only the immune and then through its fuel. But a city -- shining city on the hill -- to of babies are born a day: this is sanctuary to it. The plague flares and smolders and extinguish. Historically, in city borders, plagues killed because more people moved to them than died from their own population in the 1900s when phase and entered its soap and soup phase, giving humans some tools to slow death. But before that a city was an unintentional sort the immune from the rest. So the deeper answer is that the New World didn't have big, dense, terribly sanitized thrive. OK, but The New World wasn't completely barren Otherwise the newly-arrived smallpox in the Cities are only part of the puzzle: they're the germs that start the plagues -- those Now, most germs don't want to kill you, for your house; germs live in you. Chronic diseases very good at living in you and not killing you. Plague lethality is an accident, a misunderstanding, they're in humans; they think Plagues come from animals. Whooping cough comes from pigs, as does flu, alone is responsible for measles, tuberculosis, For the cow these diseases are no big deal in humans, the things they do to make a Deadly sick. Now, germs jumping species like this is extraordinarily spend time around animals just fine. Being plague is winning a terrible lottery. But a colonial-age city raises the odds: there of livestock in the streets, open slaughterhouses, of human and animal excrement running A more perfect environment for diseases to So the deeper answer is that plagues come the odds with many chances for infection to grow. The Old World had the necessary pieces But why was a city like London filled with This brings us to the final level, for this Some animals can be put to human use -- this breed, not just hunt. Forget for a the moment the modern world: go back just about everywhere. If you were in one capture, alive, and successfully pen to breed? Maybe you're in North Dakota and thinking violent tank on hooves, that can outrun you travels in herds thousands strong. Oh, and you have no horses to help you -- because live here -- and won't be brought over until It's just you, a couple buddies, and stone-based buffalo because they couldn't figure it out. could do it -- buffalo would have been amazing but it's not going to happen -- humans have our modern tools. The New World didn't have good animal candidates to be useful is also too dangerous, Meanwhile the fertile crescent to central goats: easy-peasy animals comparatively begging A wild boar is something to contend with if to catch and pen and breed and feed to eat all resistance beneath their hooves. In the New World the only native domestication nothing -- which is probably why the biggest no cow. Ever try to manage a heard of llamas it, but it's not fun. Nothing but drama, these These might seem, cherry-picked examples, of species of animals? Yes, but when you're none of them can be domesticated. From the domesticated; maybe a baker's dozen of unique high a number you need to stretch it to include you can't build a civilization on a foundation These early tribes weren't smarter, or better and easy animals. With dogs, herding sheep to keep an eye on the clothing factory, and plow-puller. Now farming is easier, which which means more domestication, which means density and oh look where we're going. Citiesville: welcome. That is the full answer: The lack of New World to germs sources but also limited food production, cities, which made plagues in the New World the reverse, and thus a continent full of So when ships landed in the New World, there The game of civilization has nothing to do the map. Access to domesticated animals in to bootstrapping a complex society from nothing a passive biological weaponry devastating Start the game again but move the domesticable of disease and death flows in the opposite This still does leave one last question. Just not? Why couldn't American Indians domesticate look just like horses. And what does it mean for part 2.