- Our GPS says one thing and our map says something else. We're looking for Bumpered Hill. - I've never heard of it. - Are you Sarah Atwood? - How would you know? - I think that there's a lesson in this, which is like, the next time somebody you just leave. - Yeah. (laughs) You ain't - If somebody says like, &quot;Aren't you Denim Richards?&quot; You say, &quot;Who is that?&quot; - Yeah. (upbeat rock music) - Sarah! - I gotta say, after arranging I really thought of Sarah as the big bad, as the sort of monster And for her to be killed that she hired to kill John really shuffles the deck all over again. - I think that she overplayed the hand. I think that she thought that and it was going to happen. I don't know that she ever factored in the fact that this could come back on her. - [Voicemail Recording] is no longer in service. - I think whenever you to get something like this done, you probably think, &quot;I'm safe. I'm good.&quot; - Right, right. - And it probably never occurred to her that she could be on - Because that seems really unfair. (men laughing) - Do you know how much it costs? Did they say how much, like, the hit was? - A hit costs anywhere Depends, geographically, - That seems a little - I mean, that's a 40, $50 - She, as smart and cunning as she is and everything she's accomplished, can get taken out. Anything can be taken at any - You wonder, yeah. Are they coming? And Jamie probably Like, are they on their way to me?&quot; - Oh my God. Oh my God. - You know the terror that when he hears the shots on the phone. I mean, that was his, whatever kind of weird That was something tangible. And now... - Yeah, it really does feel like that was Jamie's last point of contact. Jamie's last ally. He gave everything up. - And it's terrifying too, Like who are these people? You don't know an entity, They're sort of faceless. - Yeah. Wow. I mean, I would never recommend that anybody hire contract killers at any level of professionalism. I feel like, talk it out. It's cheaper and it has less If you're thinking about hiring somebody to kill somebody else. (shots firing) - Don't do it. (upbeat rock music) - Dispatch, I have shots fired Send additional units and EMS. - [Dispatch] 10-4, 16-Alpha. Additional units and EMS - [Officer] Can you identify the victim? - Victim is John Dutton. (tense music) - I found it shocking and he's just gone. It hurts. (sighs) - I think if we thought that something like that was gonna happen, that there was like, this war, this battle that would've taken And I think it's insane and be like, dude was just It just happened so quick. - Having watched 1883, having watched generations of this family come back from the brink of ruin, it's really, really with such unemotional, sterile, just proficiency. It's very methodical. - It's been such a, like, a man of so much feeling and love and care and commitment and honor. Just like, (snaps fingers). Yeah, it's really cold. It's rough. - Cold. - If you were investigating what would you be looking for? - Kayce's a soldier. Like, he has seen every and it feels like in this episode, he has to kind of put on that filter and try to be as as these killers were to so that then he can turn (snaps fingers) and take revenge. - There's bruising I don't know how to list the but I can list it as undetermined, which will help keep - For as long as everybody everyone can just kind of mourn the death. Now it means that there's gonna be some type of an investigation. - Yeah, now they have actually, If it was a suicide, there's nothing to do but grieve. Now, if it was a murder, There's revenge to be taken. There's a sort of course to chart. And for all of these, I mean, it's impossible to imagine - He's my next stop. - No, he's mine. - I just gotta see. - Kayce, you leave him - They're such bloodhounds. Beth is such a bloodhound. - Right. I think that switch accelerates and it gets them going at The acceleration just ramps up. - 100%. Yeah, I think speaking of bloodhounds, they should just call Scooby-Doo. - They should just call it Scooby-Doo. - They'd have this thing - We would have got away with it too. - [All] If it wasn't - And they would've pulled off the mask and it'd be like, &quot;Is it-&quot; - Is it Fred? - It was Fred the whole time. (tense music) - Look, Jamie, I admired your father, but I do not share his philosophy on what is best for Montana. - Well, neither do I. - Meet in my office after this? - Happy to. - In this episode, we see Jamie continue to sort of pivot and trying to secure his position as Market Equities' best pawn. - [Man] Why doesn't the state through eminent domain? - Are you willing to have the - Wait a minute. You stood before me and fought against eminent domain. - It feels like he's trying to to Market Equities, particularly in a context where he knows what Market Equities is - Find a way to ruin this family, Ellis. - I think this is checkmate, Caroline. - There is no such thing. - So it seems to me like at this point, Jamie is really fully in - Sure. He could just be 'Cause he doesn't really without John living. - There's no reason to and so what's the point? But to just keep himself alive, I suppose. - I also order the attorney general to recuse himself from as well as any investigation or potential prosecution into for obvious reasons. - I think that when we see take Jamie off of his perch and with the recusal, I think that that puts him in a a position of sort of uselessness, 'cause he's got all of and he's planned on how it's And then when he loses his power position, he can't affect the the final outcome. - If he's recused from - He has no use. - He has no value. And that's a very dangerous position. - And you have nobody, support system from your family. - I will be the last thing on this planet your rotten ****ing eyes will ever see. - And the person that no longer exists. You've literally isolated yourself and you've banked all of in believing that your golden opportunity, and now you have no value to anybody. (crowd applauding) - So over the seasons, the Duttons have had many enemies who think they can bring down We're gonna play a game (gunshot firing) So we're gonna read some figure out which of the the quote came from. And you at home, please - &quot;I want you to give John - That's Danny Huston. - Who is it? It is Boots, was the actor's name. The character's name is Wade. - Yeah, it's Wade. - I want you to give John - And what is his son's - Clint. - Oh my god (laughs). - Look at me. - It's like I don't have - Okay, one-zero. (men laughing) - &quot;A big dog is off the porch now, Beth, and I will tear you to ****ing pieces.&quot; - Danny Huston. - No. That is the older and the character's name is Caroline. - Correct. - The big dog is off the porch now, Beth, and I will tear you to ****ing pieces. - &quot;I'll ****ing shoot you.&quot; I'm gonna give you some - That's Danny Huston. - (laughs) It can't - I have just as much right to be here as you, as Rainwater, as anybody else. - The options are A, Garrett. So that's Jamie's biological father. - Thank you. Mo Brings Plenty. Sometimes an adversary, sometimes an ally. C, biker brawl guy, or D, Robert Long, which who also perished in the pilot. Biker brawl guy, Mo- - Garrett. - I'm gonna go C, biker brawl guy. - Biker brawl guy is the final answer. - I'll ****ing shoot you! - &quot;I'm going to ruin you. I'm going to ruin your Jamie, Malcolm Beck, - I think it's gotta be Malcolm Beck. - I would say so. It could be Dan Jenkins, but I think it's Malcolm Beck. - So if I were the one clearly I would say Dan Jenkins. - Absolutely. - And if it was me taking the guess, then I would be correct. - No! - He had to be one of 'em. - I'm gonna ruin you and your entire ****ed up family. - They're trying to from that camera. - Don't you have an earwig in? - But I'm too stupid. Yeah, I do. But I'm taking it out for this one. - &quot;Think you're up for this fight, Beth? You have no idea how wrong you are.&quot; Options are, Malcolm Beck, - That's Roarke. - I think it's Roarke as well. - Bet it is. I thought you said Willow and I was like, Willow was never, Willow Smith was never in- - Willow Smith? - The famous Dutton (everyone laughs) - Willow Smith. Yeah. Yeah. - Correct. It is Roarke. - You think you're up You have no idea how wrong you are. (upbeat rock music)