Hi everybody. The construction sector is gaining a new dimension with the rapid development of technology today. This development has led to the emergence of incredible construction techniques. In this video, we will examine the modern techniques and technologies used in construction. You will see that some techniques are truly incredible. The steel sheet pressing technique, which provides the ultimate solution for the insulation of wet and moldy walls. The pressed steel sheet creates an insulation layer on the wall that provides perfect sealing. It blocks the path of moisture rising from the ground. All types of bricks can be insulated with this technique. TRIQBRIQ is a natural and sustainable building system. This system combines traditional wood construction methods with modern technologies. TRIQBRIQ consists of pre-fabricated wood modules. These modules are easily assembled on site. Wood is a natural material, which adds a warm and friendly atmosphere to interior spaces. Wood is a natural heat insulator. It saves energy thanks to its high heat insulation. It is also very effective in sound insulation. Thanks to the special panels, the sounds from outside reach the interior at a minimum level. High Tech Dormer are a company that specialises in roof lift systems. Their patented system is used for adding a new floor to a home and for specialist roof removals. This roof lift system allows you to raise your existing roof to create more headroom and living space. It can be a great way to add a whole new floor to your home. You can move into your new space much quicker than with a traditional extension. ThermaBead is a lightweight and pourable insulation material made of expanded polystyrene beads. These beads are filled by blowing into the gaps in the wall. In this way, a perfect thermal insulation layer is created. It helps to remove moisture from the walls and prevents mold formation. It provides a great advantage that it can be applied without requiring any renovation. This system replaces traditional roofing materials and also produces solar energy. It both protects your roof and contributes to your energy independence by producing electrical energy. In this system, the roof is completely covered with solar panels. In this way, maximum solar energy is obtained. The panels can be installed easily and quickly. The panels, which are made of high-quality materials, are long-lasting and durable. This system offers a modern and efficient solution for column production in the construction sector. The molds consist of interlocking modules. These modules are combined according to the desired column size to create a mold. The use of these molds speeds up construction processes and reduces costs. Since they are made of plastic material, transportation, installation and disassembly processes are facilitated. Concreting on metal sheets is a frequently preferred method for various structures. There are some important advantages to using this method on roofs. Especially in countries such as Japan and China, the practice of pouring concrete even on sloped roofs is quite common. The main reasons include earthquake risk, heavy rainfall, typhoon winds, fire safety and longevity. Sheets that are thick and durable enough to carry the weight of the concrete should be selected. The easy installation of metal sheets and the rapid hardening of the concrete shorten the construction period and reduce costs. BROAD Living Building is a modular residential building developed by the Chinese construction company Broad Group. This building was built as a 10-storey apartment block in just 28 hours and 45 minutes. This rapid construction time was made possible by Broad Group's patented modular construction technology. This technology allows modular steel panels manufactured in a factory environment to be quickly assembled on site. The building is made of stainless steel and its energy consumption is five to ten times lower than conventional buildings. In addition, the building offers high-quality indoor air quality and thermal comfort. BROAD Living Building is considered a revolution in the construction industry. This building could be a model for how future high-rise buildings could be built. Leier type houses are created by combining elements that are pre-manufactured in the factory on the construction site. These reinforced concrete elements have high insulation properties, are light and durable. Thanks to the advantages of prefabricated construction, the construction period is quite short. In addition, since less rubble and waste is generated on the construction site, environmental pollution is also at a minimum level. Thanks to the materials used in Leier houses, high thermal insulation is provided. This allows you to live in a warm environment in winter and cool in summer. The Terraces at Walnut project is a special retaining wall system. A retaining wall is a structure built to prevent soil piles or soil masses at different levels from sliding. In this system, a natural and modern design appearance compatible with the landscape is achieved. It is manufactured from quality materials resistant to soil pressure. These panels are lighter than traditional concrete, yet offer the same durability and aesthetics. They are also easy to install and can be adapted to any design scheme. They are lightweight, allowing for ease of transportation and application. They are long-lasting thanks to their high compressive strength and impact resistance. They are used for decorative purposes on interior walls, columns and ceilings. They are resistant to dirt and easy to clean. They are environmentally friendly as they are produced from natural materials. They provide a quieter environment by isolating sounds from the outside.