Venus. Our closest planetary neighbour size to the Earth but about 40 million the second planet of our Solar System has long In more recent times, however, we have gone to the Sun at the start and the end of the numerous robotic missions have been sent to Venus And, using technology that sees in not only ultraviolet and radio spectra, that is different to Earth in I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. morning and the evening, using technology both and descending through its thick atmosphere to As the second-brightest object in barring the Moon in terms of distance (sometimes), Venus has always attracted attention from But even today, interplanetary travel is it was even harder. Of the first fifteen missions only three were classified as "successes" objectives - Mariners 2 and 5 from NASA, Successful atmospheric entries with Venera the USSR finally passed a massive milestone land on the surface of another world and last Let's now take a journey together with that same to be the many layers of the Venusian atmosphere Still drifting through space, Venera turns towards Venus' upper atmosphere lies before it, around 250km above the surface, and down it sees nothing but a thin haze - 99% of Venus' makes Venera's descent through this layer easy atmosphere would be at similar altitudes. But, could not be more different - a sign of things to a majority of nitrogen and oxygen as on Earth, we not enough to cause significant effects on as a marker of what lies beneath. Other than the the atmosphere behaves roughly the same as that of temperature differences between day and night; this is the easy part. An interesting sideshow to presence of some oxygen atoms, which emit and spacecraft [3]. In this picture taken by the the blue is the "airglow" caused by the As Venera moves downward through the layers, it at around 60km from the surface - the thick, dull light is almost entirely because of this cloud the ground. In this part of the atmosphere, carbon dioxide into carbon monoxide and single react with sulphur dioxide and water vapour, two to produce the clouds of sulphuric acid that we relatively temperate region before the As you can immediately tell, the surface of thick cloud cover, so Venera will have around three-quarters of the sunlight that the sulphuric acid that floats in the atmosphere a long way towards explaining how bright and to observers here on Earth - remember, it's When we look at those mustard yellow they appear thick and obscuring, revealing we have an advantage that Venera did not In the infrared spectrum, things look a spacecraft Akatsuki [7] throws things into much spots and bands wrapping around Venus' atmosphere. composition of the atmosphere very clearly indeed. trapping the heat that arrives from the Sun, atmospheric temperature. Under the scope of as the entire surface glows under the heat The dark patches and stripes are the previously see them high above the much brighter thick Can you imagine what Venera would experience assaults its outer casing. Winds blow at 100 of the planet; fast enough to circumnavigate which at an altitude of 50-55km is anywhere blistering levels. Surface air pressure on on Earth - comparably, it's like having As Venera descends further, however, Once Venera passes through the bottom it arrives in "clear" air once The pressure here is now so great, it's starting atmosphere. The density of carbon dioxide at this but more as a kind of supercritical fluid - and gas where a substance takes on some of the down here after the baffling fast speeds of the that winds "blow" at little more than 5 km/h. a slow but inexorable current - albeit in a But what can modern technology tell us of heat at this altitude level on Venus, let's Venus taken in the near-infrared range the Galileo satellite[8]. The red, hot areas of as are the darker patches caused by the atmosphere. The lower reaches of the and there are distinct layers of that atmosphere, To further demonstrate the differences let's now have a look at the layers we've While the images (again, from the JAXA Akatsuki wavelengths [10] do not show as much contrast in do show more variance than ones viewed in visible of the cloud layers indicate the ultraviolet but exactly what chemical - or combination of matter of debate among the astronomy community. the Venusian atmosphere that still evade our And on the subject of Venus' atmosphere defying infrared. Notice anything strange about them? large polar vortexes, about the size of Europe, weird though is that they each have not just still not quite sure why. Venus' complex, highly model as they can change on timescales of less But once it was past the enigmatic there, when it finally touched down in our journey through the thick, acidic clouds, and Earlier, we saw the very first image ever sent clouds of sulphuric acid obscuring any kind that show the surface in visible light are the surface. And of those, we only have six, taken such as our Venera 7 [11]. The air is surprisingly would be obscured by a thick haze, but this a dull yellow - the colour of the acidic we might be surprised to find solid, rocky that ground is also utterly desolate. It hints at and eroded under Venus' intense atmosphere. given the baking heat. Perhaps, a billion increased luminosity enough, we might see similar But here we must leave Venera. The Venera journey we have been following, never lasted due to the combination of heat and crushing glimpse into conditions down there on the rocky the only cases of photographs being sent from can learn about the geography and topography neither infrared nor ultraviolet imaging can break map the surface with any kind of clarity. You need The USSR began the process of using radar Venera models - 15 and 16 - in 1983, producing the ground. This was improved upon roughly which between 1990 and 1994 managed to map around 120 metres [12]. The images produced using the colossal volcanic activity, massive cratering reasonably young, possibly as a consequence in truly vast lava flows. A composite image of Pioneer and Magellan missions [13] looks truly valleys to craters and chasms shown in clear to pierce the clouds and show us what lies on knowledge about the planet. And isn't the So...with all we now know about what remains to be discovered from Venus In recent times, by far the biggest news perhaps not) of the gas phosphine high measurements from the James Clerk Maxwell amounts of the gas. Phosphine is produced through these - and the one that got everyone very excited Life in one of the most unlikely, hellish places However, subsequent studies found no such being present in the Venusian atmosphere had appeared that the findings of the initial study of the University of Cardiff went on record at found phosphine once again, this time deeper future missions will give us a definitive Many other questions await answers, too. and Earth - so similar in size, evolve so on the surface once upon a time? What is a more both the Venusian atmosphere and surface After decades of being relatively overlooked planetary probes, Venus has suddenly garnered for Venus within the next ten years. These China, India and even one private American one, more, or all of them will lead about our beloved star of the morning and evening, divulging a wealth of information and answering So there we have it all. Looking at Venus through far more knowledge than visible light alone could crater formations through kilometres of opaque of both atmosphere and surface, and use infrared of these have granted us precious hints as to why maybe that there is the possibility, however slim, Thanks for watching. A big thank you especially to Enchi, Cyrus and Alistair. This video was in part made possible by all the Astrumnauts on Patreon. If you think these videos If you think these videos ad some educational value to the world and want to give them more stability than the algorithm, Then you can be come a paid member on Patreon to contribute towards there creation. When you join you'll be able to watch the whole video add free see your name in the credits And submit questions to our team. Just sign up with the link in the description. Once again a huge thank you from myself and the whole Astrum team. Meanwhile, click the link to this playlist for more Astrum content. I'll see you next time.