From time to time, I give public lectures and answer session that inevitably follows. The audience often comes up with interesting mind. A young woman once asked me "what is the learned about?" Now I don't remember how I answered her, I should have told her about a thing called It still blows my mind. Let's see if you agree with me. Broadly speaking, quantum mechanics is a physics and even smaller particles. But quantum entanglement allows for weird as people or even larger. So just what is quantum entanglement? In an earlier video, I talked about how the or an electron, is described by what is called Brushing over many details, the wave function the particle in a particular configuration. Before you make a measurement, you can't the particle is in. To give a concrete example of what I mean direction of the spin of a particle. Now there is a quantum weirdness in that when particle, you first have to pick a direction in the direction you picked or exactly opposite. It can't be anywhere in between. So, if you picked a measurement direction direction could be left or right. It couldn't be up or down, forward or back, On the other hand, if you decided to measure of your measurement would be up and down. Left and right would be forbidden. It's certainly counterintuitive, but it's Now, prior to the measurement, the wave function could be in any direction- indeed, the most says that the spin direction actually is in It's only when you make a measurement that becomes real. If you'd like some more information on wave video might help. Now, what would happen if you had two subatomic If you're like me, you'd think that they'd wave function and they'd be totally independent, nothing to do with the spin direction of the until a measurement is made. And that happens, with four possible outcomes. Two wave functions and two probabilities, However, it's possible to prepare two subatomic single wave function. That's what we mean by entangled. Two particles and a single wave function. You'd do this by taking a parent particle let it decay into two particles. Spin is a conserved quantity, which means So, if the parent particle has zero spin, opposite spin. If one has a spin pointing left, the other If one is up, the other is down, and so on. When you add the two, you get the zero that So that's the simplest example of a pair particles with opposite spin and a single Okay, so now we're getting somewhere. The entanglement doesn't depend on the two As long as the two particles don't interact miles, or even huge distances, and the two and the two particles will have opposite spin. Now, remember that one of the key facets of is intrinsically probabilistic. We can't know- even in principle- the outcome So, suppose we select one of the two particles Say we pick horizontal. The measured spin will be either right or We could have selected the other particle 50% right and 50% left. The real weirdness arises when we measure particles. Say we measure the horizontal spin direction the measurement says it's to the right. Then we know the outcome of the other measurement. It will be- 100% of the time- left. A hundred percent of the time. That means that the information that one of it was transported to the other particle. And here's the spooky thing. We can measure the spin direction of the two that we measure the second one before any could have arrived. Let's be super concrete on this by remembering light. It travels a foot in a billionth of a second. Now let's take two entangled particles and It will take light ten billionths of a second So now let's get tricky. We'll measure the horizontal spin of one the right. Then, five billionths of a second later, we We find, 100% of the time, that it's to And remember that we did it so fast that not the outcome of the measurement of the first That means that quantum information can travel You heard me right. Faster than light. That blew Einstein's mind too. In fact, he coauthored a paper in 1935 with this problem. He also called this transfer of quantum information This was one of many reasons why Einstein So, what do we think about this phenomenon Does quantum information move at speeds faster Yeah- it seems to. But it doesn't invalidate Einstein's theory We can make both measurements and the outcome the two were opposite when we compare the no faster than the speed of light. So that saves Einstein's theory, which is Otherwise, I'd have to learn a whole new But it's still perplexing. How is it that quantum mechanics can travel Well there were some people, including Einstein, at all. Suppose you had a red and blue ball, but you You grab both of them and put them in boxes Later, you look in one of the boxes and see It will surprise nobody that the other ball The answer was determined at the moment the first ball was observed. And, I admit, when I first heard about this, The technical name for this more ordinary So, the question is "How do we know that quantum mechanics?" How can we test the idea of quantum entanglement of hidden variables? There is a long history of this, with a prediction 1981 by Alain Aspect, as well as contributions I'm going to forgo the history and the details just explain the measurement. We know that if we measure the spin direction in the opposite direction, but let's change Suppose that we measure the spin of the second How does that change things? Let's measure the direction of the first second one in the horizontal direction. That means that when you measure the spin right or left. That's weird, but remember that's how this Now, I'm going to simplify the discussion spin direction measured for the first particle We could be more general and include both and the answer is absolutely identical. If you want to do the general case, let me love and students hate, which is "the exercise Okay, now let's get into both the quantum The first measurement is in the vertical direction When you measure the spin of the second, you you get right and left with equal probability. The first measurement gives you zero predictive It turns out that both quantum mechanics and for this scenario. This is very different from if you made the because, if you did, you'd get a second of the time. Again, this is the same for both quantum mechanics So now we're ready for the final bit, which for the second particle and see if the predictions variables. We will still assume that the spin direction and then measure the spin direction for the slowly spinning the measurement through 360 This graph shows the predictions of how often the second arrow is pointing. If the second arrow is pointing upward, we downward, so that means the second measurement If the second arrow is pointing at 90 degrees right or left with equal probability, so it If the second arrow is pointing downward, is downward, so it is in that direction 100% And, as we go to 360 degrees, the pattern It's very important that we see that the mechanics are different. This is key. So those are predictions. What does a measurement say? Well these black dots show the measurement Quantum mechanics is correct and the whole out. So, what does this mean? It means that the idea that the final measurement particles is entangled is false. It means that when you measure one of the transferred to the other particle at a speed Now with such a provocative statement, you So first the biggie- no, this does not mean The collapse of the wave function is still So sorry, we're still stuck with light-speed Another feature of this measurement is that exactly what it means. There are some ideas, but all are weirder And, of course, nobody knows if those ideas The bottom line is that, at a minimum, classical apply in the quantum world. It's quantum mechanics all the way. The good news is that this new quantum interconnectivity and quantum teleportation. Hmmm... did I just come up with the topic Alright- this video was long, but there is world. And there is a lot more to learn, which is field these days. If you liked learning that we can definitively the video and share it with your friends. And be sure to subscribe to the channel, because and hear about the most fascinating fields because, well- physics is everything.