There's a lot of inaccurate information going Even here on YouTube there's a number of videos I also found this mention on Wikipedia, and the section about SIM card cloning cloning I mean copying a SIM, so that you then receive calls and text messages. Using exactly In theory you would also be able to use that to original SIM card. And to demonstrate how it was exactly how it was done. To do this I'm going to are very cheap and easy to find. And I'm going to To copy a SIM card you need to read two numbers International Mobile Subscriber Identity number. fact with most Android phones, if you download a But to copy a SIM you need one other number from also got my Windows XP laptop here. But the on just about any modern version of Windows. A neat little program that enables me to talk I'm now going to use the Key extraction function this running for quite a while, and that's because And it's the job of a SIM card to keep this really important. Because it's how your carrier this by picking a random number and then doing network also knows and keeps secret. Then it sends asks the SIM card to also do the same calculation If the result from your SIM card, and the result phone call or message has now been authenticated, Then in 1998, cryptographic researchers they were able to work out how But to copy a SIM card you would still need to found that the algorithm also had some flaws. They can eventually work out what the Key number is. is asking the SIM card to run the authentication, SIM card normally at most does a few dozen of And then suddenly it seems to have stopped. calculations. I've tried starting the process It obviously couldn't take the I've had a look through some of the other SIM that looks fairly old. I think this is The first thing I've noticed about this that the authentication rate, it Which means it's going to take a lot longer to But it's also a good sign that this I'll let this run and I'll see if it If this is an older SIM card, then [Music] When this calculation was originally and not many people had seen how it works. And When the algorithm eventually became known to the calculation. The part that was meant to OK that took about 40 minutes or so. But after found. Combined with the IMSI means I can now I made a dummy SIM card. That ran entirely IMSI and the key number into that software. I the original SIM card can do. But for this video means getting a blank SIM card and writing a SIM Max card by STK. It comes with a couple of and this is just a basic editor that can edit on the SIM card. The other program this comes with same thing as Woron Scan. It will scan a SIM card the option of writing that to the Sim Max, making the Ki into this software and write to the SIM option. So I'm going to run the recalculation This software has a couple of different options. the maximum number of authentications on the SIM a strong Ki number. These appear to be options Some SIM cards were designed to stop working And strong Ki may have been an attempt to pick And then finally after 29207 calculations, this twice as long as Woron Scan. Woron Scan probably Key number is. But it's done now and I have Replacing the Optus SIM with the SIM Max This particular SIM Max card has the option to and their Key numbers. But I'm only wanting to the first slot. I now have a cloned SIM Now I'm not going to be able to test these on all shut down years ago. But I still want to SIM card. So I'm switching back to Woron Scan. using the Run GSM Algorithm command. With this to be used in the calculation. This is an extra plus '90 00' at the end. Which is a SIM card I'm now going to run the exact same calculation exact same random number all over again, and an exact match from the first SIM card. I've So what stops this happening today with modern SIM 1998 in the COMP128 algorithm. And in response new COMP128 version 3. Both of these algorithms have in that time no one has found any flaws to reverse inside SIM cards. That means it's no longer find another way to get your Key number. Now there is stored. One of course is your network provider. is from SIM card manufacturers themselves. And it is fairly lax compared to network providers. For 000 SIM cards. The card manufacturer will just in plain text, unencrypted and easy to intercept. government security agencies get access to have been hacking into card manufacturers to At this point they pretty much know everyone's And that's billions of Key numbers. So you can But they're not interested in cloning your SIM That's the Truth about SIM card cloning. Oh Yeah, that Wikipedia article that got it all a device between the SIM card and the phone, Unfortunately as I've demonstrated here, you out the Key number. And there's no way you're everything between the phone and the SIM card. And actually not related to SIM card cloning, and not I'm sure this article will get updated soon. So may have changed. And that's really it for now. enjoyed this. It's been a lot of fun looking at continue to support, and everyone who watches you're really helping this channel to continue. [Music]