- Welcome to &quot;Without A Recipe.&quot; Dude, this is about to - Kitchen Madness. Elimination season. - What have I done? - Wait, should I be following you? - No, no! - It feels like I'm eating an earlobe. - Ah! - [Narrator] Eight contestants. Only one will reign supreme. - This doesn't look like food. - I think I'm clenching my butt. I just realized. (judges laughing) - Not in my room! - Here we go. - [Zach] The worst chefs we know. Joyce, Jared, Ash, Marissa, Ryan, Kwesi, Keith, and me. - Wow, wow. You guys are toast. - Peace and love. Start fingering. - [Narrator] From the show - Do you want me sign a waiver that says we could die on - Without A Recipe: Kitchen Madness. (dramatic music) - We're making milk and cereal today, which they keep saying How are we making milk? You don't make milk. Mothers make milk and (dramatic music) (kitchen timer dings) [Zach] Binge the first 3 episodes right now on 2ndtry.tv (triumphant music) - [Narrator] The Try Guys for an entire season of &quot;Without - Oh, you know what I just realized? That's sugar and this is flour. (Zach laughs) - [Narrator] This season is a Over the first two episodes, all eight chefs will compete. The top two finishers from each episode move on to the next round while the bottom two to the stinky losers bracket where they either win and or lose and go home. In the end, the top four to determine who will be crowned the Without A Recipe: - This is like the Olympics. (Marissa laughs) - [Narrator] On today's episode, they're making cereal and milk. Will they be part of - Do you heat this or is it just water and then it's a thing? - [Narrator] Or will the pressure make them snap, crackle and pop? - Good enough. - [Narrator] Each chef will have two hours to make their dish and present (dramatic music) - Welcome to &quot;Without A I'm Rosanna Pansino. I host one of the most and I'm also a cookbook author. I have a couple New - Hey, I'm Jonny Cakes and I am a hyper-realistic cake maker and a New York Times bestselling author. (judges laughing) - Hi, my name is Mitzi Reyes. I am the executive pastry I am definitely not a - Oh, it's okay. You'll join us, okay? - Okay, thanks. (laughs) (mysterious music) Curtis Stone Group, here we have multiple and we are Gwen, our and today we're gonna It seems like it's an easy thing to do, but it's actually not. A good cereal will be that it's crunchy. I like my cereal sweet. I think the biggest challenge with cereal is when it it becomes like a mush. If your dough is too wet, The goal for cereal is You wanna intensify that because you're gonna dilute When you're shaping cereal, it will limit your quantity There's some cereals that you need to actually roll every single one. I don't know if I would recommend people doing this without a recipe. It's a simple recipe, but I think if you don't with butter and water or if you've done it before, I think it will be quite challenging to get it done perfectly. (dramatic music) - For years in &quot;Without A Recipe,&quot; cereal has been the cornerstone It's my ultimate cheat code. You need to make bread? Crush up cereal. You need flavor? Crush up cereal. You need crunch? Crush up cereal. Today I have to imagine they (Zach laughs) - There's seven other people I'm assuming it's all the Try and I'm assuming they're Why am I here? Why did I come back? - [Producer] You tell me. - Oh God. - I love cooking. I'm obsessed with baking shows, but I don't actually practice much myself. It's not gonna be It's gonna be anxiety is, is anxiety. (laughs) Oh my God, I'm so nervous! - I'm back, baby. I go in like really wanting to win and then I adjust my expectations Things go very, very, very - Marissa, I've been told cooks for fun. - [Producer] You got Joyce, Kwesi, Ryan. - I think I have a shot (bright music) - Jared and I have a very which is not training. - Correct. They just paired the new - It's like &quot;Looper.&quot; - It is just like &quot;Looper.&quot; - Why would you make - It never even dawned on me that cereal was a thing (playful music) - [Narrator] Alright, chefs. In three, two, one. Try to bake! - Oh my God. - Wait, it just starts? That's how, we just go. - This year everything's coming up ugly. - (laughs) Okay. - Introducing the hottest - Oh, that's fun. the most beautiful cereal Presenting Ugly Keiths Ugg-O's. A corn-based cereal. Gonna have some berry flavors in there. I will be having a banana oat milk. My plan is to basically try and make some sort of mealy sand bullshit, bake it and hope it sticks together. - Okay. These are bowls. - I love it. My cereal is Cereal Killer. A Jason Voorhees mask cereal. It has dye built into it so that when you put My flavor is strawberry. My milk is walnut. I love walnuts. I've never tried to milk them. Psychologically, I am fascinated but am I doing it for any No. - Well, I'm kind of trying to It's my birthday. Well, it was on the 1st, I'm making Gemini birthday cake cereal. Vanilla with a chocolate cashew milk. - [Producer] Are Geminis messy? - This one is! (laughs) - My creative is a granola cereal with some blueberry in a latte. - A blueberry latte? - Cereal nostalgia, child-like. Coffee, adult. Let's bring them together. What am I gonna make today? Cereal and milk latte. My flavors are granola inspired. I'm gonna throw blueberries in there. How am I gonna make the coffee? Do I have the beans? Do I have peanut butter? - [Producer] Are you baking? - Do I have to bake? How do I make granola? Why did I pick granola? I thought this was an easy choice. I should have went with a sandwich. I know that we're supposed I should have just said, no. I'm staying hard, fast. I'm making a sandwich. I wish I, if there's I should have just chosen five different ham and cheese sandwiches. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] First, the bakers will have one hour to make their dough. - So we are using two We are using all purpose flour and I'm using Tehachapi - I've got a mixture of cake flour and a little bit of wheat - I know I need flour. A cereal is like a and so I'm gonna mix A pea flour, wheat flour. I can do this. I'm an adult. - Well, I think there's different cereals that use different flours. I think whole wheat, it's a little dryer. - Okay, cereal. Everyone knows it's corn. It's, uh- - It's corn? - We never use cornmeal. It will make your dough very, very grainy. - I'm gonna do a 50/50 I don't remember what cornstarch does, but it's here and it's corn. - (laughs) It's here and it's corn. Zach and I are so good at this! - If I'm making a granola cereal, I wouldn't add flour to it. - I think it's gonna be I was going with granola because I feel like I can and then just rub it around - I think I would just maybe a little bit of sugar - I got some flax seeds. I got some barley. I'm going like a old school grandma. I don't need measuring cups - Granola is super simple. It's actually one of the easiest - And everyone's upset that I'm doing it too well right away. And they're like, &quot;No, we want Jared on as the idiot &quot;and he's looking like a genius.&quot; (bright music) - [Zach] Okay, we're, we're- - What? What? Call me grandma 'cause I'm going by eye. - Grandma! (Jared laughs) It's peanut butter. - It's mostly peanut butter. - I have a little bit salt, cinnamon, and then I'm gonna add all my butter. I had it in the freezer. I wanna make sure that my - Oh, I should have - You're putting butter? - I think my strategy was (laughs) If I'm being honest. - Technically making like a pie dough. - Let's go teaspoon of cinnamon and a lot of sugar and baking powder. - There's no baking powder - Baking powder and baking soda. Those are things that - You add baking powder and so like the bubbles are growing, but I wouldn't add it with this - I'm doing baking powder. I want my cereal to puff up. - I want it to be flat and crunchy. And when you add baking powders, it would puff up and it - I'm assuming it's almost - Zach, you look like you Zach knows what he's doing. - I'm auditioning for the All-Star season. - Oh my God! - Now I have my vanilla I think we had to start - So I have wheat flour, cake That's not enough water. - I don't want my dough to get too wet. I don't want my dough - I want a rollout-able dough. This feels too wet now. It can never be too wet. (Ash laughs) - If it gets too sticky, I'm gonna have to be adding When it's baking it's gonna or it might not even dry at all. - It needs more. I feel like it needs a It needs more cake batter. - How could I have watched so and retained absolutely nothing? - Yeah, wouldn't add any - Oh, Keith taught me a better way to cut bananas than the way I'm doing it. And I forgot. I just wanna add some more banana flavor into my Nature Valley vibes was, oh God, my blueberries! - The best way to add flavors to your cereal is freeze dried fruits. - I'm making a strawberry cereal, so I'm gonna use dehydrated strawberries. Time to blend these. - I will add freeze dried fruit, like it has no water content, so it won't affect the - And I'm gonna add red food coloring. - They'll rehydrate. - They will? - Any hydration, it'll rehydrate them. Yeah. - I'm just happy that I haven't fainted. (both laughing) - So we wanna keep it simple when we're making cereal, you know? - But does it have gums? 'Cause it, well, it's got a little gum. Eggs? - I am definitely not - When in doubt, eggs. - I don't think you need eggs. It will create a different kind of texture and it might take longer for you to dry. - Maybe I need to add an - I'm not gonna use an egg. I'm gonna use apple sauce. What would butter do to mine? I went to college is the thing. You know, like I was gonna be (both laughing) I'm doing this. - So now I'm gonna mix it and I keep pulsing until - I know that I want use but I do think I want some Gonna see if it whisks it itself. - [Producer] Yeah, let's - My idea is to do a strawberry so that when it hits the milk it bleeds. Oh God. Honestly, it looks like which I can say because I'm a trans man. - I'm trying to decide whether I should put my sprinkles in now. It's supposed to be sweet. It's birthday cake. Does this seem like? Ooh, it smells good. - It looks a little bit more But if I press it with my So your dough should be able to come together without - Why is it so grainy? What could possibly be making it grainy? All I'm putting is grains. - Hey, I'm having way more I thought I was stressed and scared. I think I'm doing a pretty Oh no, the egg [bleep]ing ruined it. (laughs) Oh God! - For the record, I don't - So this is my dough. It feels dry. You can see how it kind So it's a little dry, So it means it's well hydrated. - Whoa, this looks wild. - I am not kneading this dough because I don't wanna - We're gonna treat this like pizza dough. We're gonna knead it. Yeah, you work cereal dough You wanna make sure that - I have my rolling pin and what we're gonna do is as evenly as we can. - Oh my God! Oh, I'm not gonna be able to roll this. It's not the right consistency. (dramatic music) Lemme try. Oh God. What have I done? (dramatic music) Nope. Granola. - When I'm rolling my dough, I try to get it super, super thin. This is about one millimeter, so it was like super, super thin. - That's a, I feel like I and I don't know how I did that. - I like brushing it with just because my sugar sticks to it and it also gets a better flavor. - Wanna taste mine? I don't think it's sweet so it's not supposed to What do I need more of? - No, it's supposed to be, it's supposed to be sweet. It's birthday cake. - Why do I have a rolling pin? That probably, (laughs) I think I've made a huge mistake. That's not rollable. It's just juice basically. - [Producer] Should you be (mysterious music) - But that's okay 'cause Oh, this doesn't seem good. - I don't think you should or dough is more like a pie. - This tastes good. It's like, oh. It tastes like strawberry mush, which is an expensive if you're bougie. - You needed it to be dry for you to have a crunchy cereal. - [Ash] Alright, these Ew, it's spilling out of the edge. - If it's sticking to your - I'm gonna do these trays. I'm gonna start baking these And then I'm gonna use the rest. Make another batch of this. - Your dough is too wet. It will be too sticky. I think I would start again. (laughs) Um... - I think I'm clenching my butt. I just realized. (Marissa laughs) - I was like- (Ash laughs) Unclench. - And now for cutting. We're gonna use our pie cutter. - I'm cutting them into strips because I wanna make little balls, which I'm gonna later stamp. I'm gonna stamp my little Gemini stamp. Ew, it's oozing. Oh no. I'm nervous. - [Ash] For me? - I don't have time to be nervous for you. - [Ash] Oh, okay. - After this, I'm gonna flip it to the other so I get my shapes. - I'm just gonna throw and put it in the baking, in the oven. I'm hoping that baking it helps and I'm hoping that it hardens. - I will keep the shape simple when you're making homemade cereal just because you work faster - I called in a favor and I made custom Ugly Keith cutouts so that I will be able to Yes. - [Jared] Let me see it. Let me see it. - Yes! Yes! - Let me see it! - [Jared] That's Ugly Keith. - [Both] Ugly Keith! - Lemme see those Ugly - Dude, [bleep] yeah, dawg. - [Producer] Eight minutes - Oh boy. Okay, this is, this is, can I do this in eight minutes? No, but is it gonna be awesome? - [Both] Yes. - I bake this at 325 and I bake it for about - Alright, these two are - Who makes their own - Alright, here we go. - Go Jared, go! - Go on, get outta here. - Don't wait for me. I'll come back for you. - What am I thinking? I'm gonna like cut out This is crazy. - [Ash] Oh, this looks like - I'm just hoping this is enough. This is not enough cereal! It's not even close to enough cereal. (Jared groaning) - [Jared] How good is this, right? - [Ash] I'm really a - It's working! The stamp's working, Rachel. Yes. - Okay. Well I, time is up on the cereal, but I don't have nearly enough So we are broadening Keith is friends with the local dolphins. Things that Ugly Keith loves. He loves, loves dolphins. This is the cast of characters that makes up the Ugly It's gotta be here. We're moving, people. Here we go. - I gotta stop. I gotta stop obsessing and I gotta move. - [Producer] 33 minutes. - [Marissa] Okay. - What the [bleep]is this? Come on! (dramatic music) Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me with this? Are you kidding me? (dramatic music) Okay, hey Siri, set a Thank you. Not emergency call. (suspenseful music) - [Narrator] While their the chefs have 30 minutes and finish their cereal. - I didn't soak my walnuts, but there were soaked walnuts for me here, which I forgot I needed. So I'm just gonna do that. - Walnut milk? I've never had walnut milk, have you? - Exactly. (dramatic music) - Today we're gonna make oat milk with maple syrup and vanilla. I have 150 grams of oats and I'm gonna add 1500 grams of water. - Nut milk, I believe is nuts. And I'm adding cocoa Water, I'm trying to do like equal parts. - I'm adding 10 times the - I don't know why I said equal parts. I didn't measure. - I want it to be thicker, so Well, I just put a lot of sugar in there. - I want more water because it can get really slimy when you're making this milk. - Should I put apple sauce in it? I'm regretting my choices now. - I'm gonna add my maple and I'm gonna blend it - We're making banana oat milk. We're gonna blend the oats. We're gonna put some We're gonna put some vanilla. I've made oat milk before. That's a lie. Maggie's made oat milk A little thick. (laughs) Forgot the sugar. - You can definitely put - Oh, we got some soaked almonds. I'm gonna throw this thing in a blender, soaking that almond up in there. - That will also create the fermentation. - I'm gonna use some suge, whoop. - Both too much sugar or a skin when you're will cause a lot of fermentation. So it's better if you don't do it. - It's gonna be more water until it starts to resemble - Fermented milk will not taste good. It will have like a acidic kind of flavor. - I kind of want to put honey in it. - Adding too much sugar or the skin will kind of speed that up and we wanna stay away from that. - More sugar, not enough sugar in my food. How much sugar does one (ominous music) But I feel like I'm missing - Are you forgetting the coffee? - What am I gonna make today? Cereal and milk latte. Latte, latte, latte. (ominous music) - You have to make the - Oh my God! Oh my God! I forgot all about that. - This is a milk strainer because you don't wanna - You just blend it and I'm gonna use those nut bags. We're gonna go nuts. - Oh my God. - [Ash] What kind of milk are you making? - Why is it the slowest? (Marissa laughs) I'm making milk! - And here I'm just gonna let it strain with a squeezing onto almost the end because I don't wanna have - You gotta milk it! - Is this one of my sifter bags? - Nut bag. - [Jared] Nut bag? - I've been known to nut bag in my town. - Nut bags? That's nut bad. - Ah! No, no, no, no. - Oh (bleep)! All over my hand. That's gross. Oh [bleep]! Oh my God! Oh my God! (dramatic music) - Oh my God. Jared, it's perfect. (triumphant music) It's perfect. (Jared laughs) I think it's better than mine. (dramatic music) - [Producer] Oh, that's delicious. (Jared laughs) - This is our baked cereal. As you can see, it's crunchy. It's covered in sugar - This looks good. Oh, Marissa's going to be so freaked out because I'm gonna have - You gotta climb over the table. It's some crazy shit they're doing. - [Jared] Okay. There's obstacle courses here. Ugh. Ah! What the heck is that? - This is- - [Zach] Yeah, this is cereal. - [Jared] This doesn't look anything like granola in any way. - How many? How many minutes? - [Producer] 12. - Yeah, I need to put - Oh, you're putting yours in the freezer? - I'm sweating. Okay, these look good. - That's smart. (dramatic music) [bleep]. - I would not freeze my cereal once it comes out of the oven. - Yeah, you got, those look good. Those look like cereal. Uh-oh, okay. - Where's the big freezer? - Just because it will and it won't be crunchy. - Okay. - [Zach] Ugly. Oh, you can't make 'em ugly - I may have made something delicious! What the [bleep] is going on? - Oh! (laughs) Am I gonna win? - Shut up! My voice just squeaked. - [Marissa] No, you're No, you're not! - No, you're not! No, you're not! - Holy shit. - I'm gonna unstick everything. My marshmallows. Oh! - [Producer] 30 seconds. - Ah! (dramatic music) - My concoction tastes We need more banana. We need more banana. - I never made the coffee. - Jared! - Ooh, I'm gonna sift I knew I was gonna be I think I'm gonna win. Did I take testosterone and become a man and - Yeah, but this is not cereal, Jared. It's gotta be smaller. Gotta be smaller. - I know. - Oh, we gotta make it smaller, Jared. - [Jared] Working on it. Working on it. - I'm coming in with a knife. - [Narrator] Five, four, three, two, one! Hands up. (dramatic music) (both cheering) - Yay, it looks like a real cereal. - Didn't make my coffee. - [Producer] There's also (Zach laughs) - Where? - Oh! (dramatic music) - Welcome back to the first episode of &quot;Without A Recipe: Kitchen Madness.&quot; Today we'll be judging on and is it cereal and milk? (dramatic music) - [Jonny] I want a cereal but not over the top sugary and sweet. - Oh. I don't want the instant soggy. Just the instant soggy kills it for me. - [Mitzi] It's a special, right? It's a special in the mornings. I think it brings family together. I really wanna see Frosted Flakes. - This is Kitchen Madness, you guys. I wanna see brilliance. (dramatic music) - I'm gonna show you something I don't think you've ever seen. (all laughing) - Yes! (dramatic music) (light piano music) - Hey, cuties. (judges laughing) So I wanted to do something It's cereal. We like it in the morning. We like it in the evening. We like it at any time. - When cereal's on a bagel, you can. (all laughing) - Cereal anytime. I decided to make birthday cake inspired cereal. - And since my birthday's on June 1st, beginning of Pride Month, I decided to make Gemini cereal. - [Judges] Ooh. (dramatic music) - Oh, that's so cute. - Wow! I didn't know you designed a box. - Yeah, I did. I designed it. - I love this. This is adorable. As a fellow Gemini, I love the design. I love the creativity already. - Wow, this is cool. (contestants laughing) Okay, I feel ripped off. - It's not half empty, it's half full. - It smells like cereal. - A third full, so that's - Ooh. - Yeah, smell that box. That was... - Okay then. (judges laughing) Let's do this. Whoops. Sorry, sorry. - This looks great. The cereal feels nice and crispy. I feel like this is I just think it's I can see three distinct things. The cereal pieces, the - I love the mini sprinkles. Instead of picking the larger sprinkles. - They're stamped with little Gemini. - Aw, that's cute. - They are! - It's so cute. - I love the creativity of this. I love that they're all mini, like look all about the same size. - It smells really nice. It smells almost - Well, I'm feeling lucky today. - I gotta try it. Okay. (suspenseful music) Oh. (Jonny laughs) I have never had this texture. I don't even know what is happening. - It definitely feels and not a nice and crispy cereal. - Mm-hmm. - Are these the flours What are? - I think it needed it to be baked longer. - Mm, baked longer. - Surprisingly not very sweet. - No. - Like very- - I'm not concerned about that. It's more of a texture. It's like a very flour forward taste. - It almost kind of tastes - It does taste healthy. - Well, we're all in our thirties. - [Producer] Does the cereal - Nope. - Yes it does. (contestants laughing) Just close your eyes. It just... - No, it does. - So wait, this is a chocolate milk? - Yeah. - And then what's the base of it or what? - Cashew. We love cashew milk. - I used soaked cashews. A little bit of sugar, salt, - [Jonny] I've never had - Yeah. - [Jonny] It seems like - Oh, I can't wait. Okay. Okay, here we go. I'm gonna get a good bite. Oh, oh, oh, oh. (contestants laughing) - [Mitzi] Am I trying to get the milk? - The weird thing is... (Zach laughs) - It's the texture. - The taste is great. It's the texture. - The texture is gnarly. (Ash laughs) - Like, I cannot wait to see what you did because I don't even - Honestly, I blacked out. So I would also love to see what I did. - It feels like I'm eating an earlobe. (contestants laughing) It's like an earlobe. - It got tougher once you I don't know why. - Interesting. That's so interesting. - But I love the flavor. - Yeah, the flavor is great. Great flavor! - I like the texture of the milk. It's actually a lot of fun. I think it's perfect for the cereal. - Perfect. - Yes! - All mixed together with the milk and the marshmallows and everything. I think it has a perfect sweetness. I really, really like the flavor. It's just a texture thing. This is really bizarre. (contestants laughing) - If we're making a we don't want to use any We don't want eggs, really. You ever sexy time? Sexy time, fun times? You nibble on someone's ear. It feels like if they were like, &quot;Keep going, harder, babe.&quot; And I go and I bit off their ear. Vincent Van Gogh style. (Ash laughs) - Yeah, yeah. - You [bleep]ed up. (contestants laughing) - [Marissa] So judges, (suspenseful music) - A hundred percent. - Yeah, it's cereal and milk. Just a very weird texture. - Yeah, but you think about all the weird textured and maybe this is just one more. - Uh, name 'em. (contestants laughing) - This was... - I can't, I can't think of it. - Cute! - That looks cereal. - Mm. (contestants laughing) - Do you get earlobe? Like, do you see what I'm saying? - She's enjoying it. (contestants laughing) Happy birthday to me (upbeat music) - Fellow esteemed breakfast connoisseurs. - Whoa. - I don't even want to waste your time. Without further ado, baby. (judges laughing) Childlike cereal. That's what it gives me. - Yeah. - [Jonny] Yeah. - And I wanted to pair that with adult. So I give you milk cereal latte. - [Rosanna] Ooh. (dramatic music) - Well, look at Jared on that! - Aw! It's you! Your beaver ass buck teeth on this? (contestants laughing) - We could talk about it. We could totally talk about it. Doesn't that box look great? I'm going for a granola with a I wanted to pair that with and I think I achieved it. And there it is. - Yeah. - I believe that the milk is probably my favorite thing I did. - Okay, cool. - I know. Where does the latte come in? So it's granola and blueberries? - Sure, sure. - I was, you guys didn't - Oh. It says that on the ingredients, it says espresso. Yeah, there's espresso (contestants laughing) and I just didn't find it. - Jared. - This? - You're kidding, right? - I found it after we finished. - No, I mean, you're kidding that you named your and there's no, not even a drop of coffee. - There might be some (contestants laughing) That's not for me to decide. That's for you guys to - No, it's literally for you to decide. - That's false advertising. that there's some coffee - That's so crazy. You've made a latte cereal (contestants laughing) Like, that's a first on the show. - No, no, guys. Honestly, we need to get back to- - Jared. - Whoa. (contestants laughing) Are we happy? - Wait, listen to that more. - [Rosanna] Ooh. Well, we've got different sizes. - [Mitzi] Yeah. - [Jared] Wanted to keep you on your toes. Keep you guessing. - (laughs) It's a full almond. - [Jared] Well. (contestants laughing) - Just a full. That's so full, man. Just trying to find a good bite here. - [Jared] Oh, okay. Just every bite will be a good one. - Okay, great. (suspenseful music) - See, I'm having the same exact issue I had with the last one. - Really? - You want it to... - Crisp, crunchy. - Crispy, crunchy in your mouth. - [Rosanna] And it's soft. - Weirdly, I don't really taste anything. - Peanut butter balls? - It's just kind of, it kind of tastes like one of those things you have to eat if you're - If it tastes like nothing, (contestants laughing) - Yeah, we can say it. Slightly, yeah. Then that's what I'm going for. - Yeah. - Now listen, it's not over for you yet. - [Jared] That seems to- - We haven't even tasted - Guys, it's not just cereal. It's also milk. Just remember that. - Jared, there's a thickness to this milk, but it actually stays on the spoon, which I think is kind of lovely. It feels creamy. - Yes. Let's be sure to really get (dramatic music) - Is this fermented milk? (ominous music) (thunder rumbling) - What does that mean? - What? What? I didn't even catch it. - Fermented, right? - Like alcoholic. It tastes like Flonase. - Yeah. The nasal medication? - How it drips down your - That's gotta have been because I tried the milk - [Jonny] What flavor is this milk? - Soaked almonds, sugar. - Water. - And I think that might have There's no Flonase. (contestants laughing) - Jared, that's not good. - That's impossible, the milk, the milk was dynamite. - What happens if you put too much sugar in a milk or something, you know? - Oh, I could've done that. I could've done that. Oh my gosh. Is that how you make booze? Do you put sugar on stuff? - It's moonshine. You're making moonshine. (dramatic music) - Are you purporting that nuts plus water, plus a lot of sugar overnight equal booze? - A lot of sugar with a lot of vodka, you know, to make vodka. That's how you make booze. Usually it sits longer, but - Also did you have the Yeah, so the skin of the almonds will like fasten the fermentation. - If you had tried my milk I swear to you, this is the best milk you've - Actually, listen, the milk's, whatever. To me the issue is like, I - Okay. Fair. - Oh wow. - And Jared, the sizes too. I just gotta say, the sizing of your cereal You know? Isn't that fun? - Something I love about you and you've got this great personality. You walk into a room, the energy changes. - [Jared] Okay. - [Jonny] This cereal is - Yeah. who you never would think about if you didn't just like bump - That was kind, kind of. (contestants laughing) - [Jared] But judges, (dramatic music) - Yeah, it's milk and cereal. - Really? - Yeah, but don't... (contestants laughing) Yeah, but don't act happy 'cause it's bad. - I can't shoot the whole thing. - Shaker. - Salud. (playful music) - I kind of like it. - It tastes like Makgeolli, - Yes, rice wine. It tastes like rice wine. (upbeat music) - Ladies and gentlemen. Senoras y senores. - Mesdames et messieurs. - Welcome to the cereal - Wow. - I have made for you today puns. My cereal is called Cereal Killer. Yes. (judges laughing) Strawberry flavored. And what I hope will happen is that when you pour the - Hmm. - [Judges] Wow! - Yeah, yeah. (dramatic ominous music) - [Rosanna] Oh. - [Ash] Most killer cereal (judges laughing) - Wow! - I love the idea of this. - [Rosanna] This is so creative. - [Jonny] It's like the happiest - He's like, in a field of strawberries. Like, with this little murder knife. - I think there's three that have some white chocolate. Yeah, it's like a, yeah, like a Willy Wonka. If you get one of those, you don't have to eat (contestants laughing) - Wow. - Oh, they're little mini skulls. - Are they teeny? Pass it down. - They're like teeny. - Oh, that's cool. I genuinely love the skulls. So this will be my cereal. - Oh my gosh! I have to pick one up. This is just, oh, oh. Oh, they're slimy. Oh, I mean, looks wise. They look so cute. I mean, that's adorable. - It is adorable. - Everything's a gummy now, you know? - Everything. - Ash, they're wet. They're like, it's like - Yeah. They're wet. Yeah, they're, you can just stick it on the bowl. - Yeah. (contestants laughing) You can literally just stick it anywhere. - It's like a- You stick it here. - What is creativity except for going outside the box? (laughs) - You can stick it here. Look. - All right. Now we're just being rude. - Did you brush with some type of sugar? - I did brush with powdered sugar. - Yeah. - And I think it absorbed into the- - Yeah, it's good, but I think maybe you could - And then I froze it. I knew it had to get drier. - So freezing something after you bake it will actually lock in moisture. - Oh. - So that's where the - [Jonny] No, but let's The cereal looks really cool. - Yes. - Okay, here we go. Oh my gosh. Come here, you little. - It's actually, it's a multivitamin. Every vitamin that you need is in there. - They're really dense. - I mean, these are really, really, okay. - [Jonny] Here's some oats? (dramatic music) - No, it's good. The laughter, laughter cures the soul. - Doesn't taste very strawberry. - Where are the strawberries? I mean, the strawberry comes and goes. - It tastes like a Flintstones vitamin. - [Mitzi] It feels a little chalky too. - Chalky. Like if a packing peanut got - With all this color, I thought strawberry's and then, nope. - It's terrible. This is bad. - It's terrible? - And it kind of tastes and slightly whole grain, yeah. - It tastes like white- It kills your spirit. (contestants laughing) - Well, I wanted to- - [Rosanna] Wait, what? - The milk is a walnut milk. - Oh. I tried to make it as creamy as possible without making it alcohol. - Oh no. I wanna spit it out. - You wanna spit it out? (ominous music) - Oh, that's not good. - Ooh. - Did you use the skin again? Ugh. - Yep. - [Ash] Did use the, oh God. Wow. - I hate to eat it. It's so wet. - I just, it's just like- - The milk is penetrating the cereal and making it like, like slime. Like it tastes slimy. (dramatic music) - So it's killer? (contestants laughing) - Oh. - No. - It's definitely not bleeding. - No, it's no blood coming out. - The thing about this is that like, this isn't maybe the worst thing that has been presented on this show, but I'm a such a texture person and I hate slimy wet carbohydrates. I cannot eat any more of this. - Okay, hold on. I just wanna say, if you don't like it, it's transphobic. (Marissa laughs) (Ash laughs) So how is it? - So good. (judges laughing) - I'm kidding. The real way to get equality is to allow trans people to fail. (laughs) - Oh. Oh, you, you failed. (ominous music) Is it cereal and is it milk? (dramatic music) - It's milk. (contestants laughing) - I actually think I - I've never had a gummy cereal. - No. - I've never had a gummy cereal. I've had a lot of And this one's just almost it, it's a wet. It's wet. - It's not cereal and milk. - Is it milk though or no? - It's milk. It's milk. - Yeah. - Tastes like some of - What? - I know. (Ash laughs) (playful music) (dramatic music) - Judges, it's America's favorite mascot. Children love him. Adults think he's funny. Everyone put your hands He's a plushie. He's an action figure. He does tricks, and now he's a cereal. Presenting Ugly Keith's Ugg-O's! - Ugg-O's? That's incredible. (dramatic music) (judges laughing) - Whoa. - Ugly Keith. He's a little rascal, And he got into the cereal factory. Ugly Keith, don't pull that lever. Oh no! Ugly Keith is the new cereal that children are losing their minds over. It's like fidget spinners, but food. (contestants laughing) What you have before you It's sweet. It's got a little cinnamon-y. Got a little bit of that corn flav. (judges laughing) - [Jonny] It's so, I mean... - [Zach] I see what you guys are thinking. You saw the box and were expecting - I mean, (judges laughing) I believe it's a [bleep]ing (all laughing) - [Zach] Wait. - [Ash] Jonny's the Simon Cowell of this. - They have to be flesh colored because they have to The color is the explosion - [Rosanna] Ah. - The color's how you're gonna - Oh, okay. - They are face shaped. - Yes, so I wanna tell you that we have a whole cast (dramatic music) Using the latest in 3D - [Jonny] Wow. - I made custom Ugly Keith faces that you will find inside. You have some Ugly Keith faces. You have some Ugly Keith Head shape. - This one looks like a heart. - Yeah, and he loves you. Everybody knows Ugly Keith loves dolphins. So we have dolphins. (contestants laughing) Say it with me now. So yeah, dolphins. - Dolphins. - Zach, is this a pumpkin mold? - [Zach] Johnny, don't you touch that. - A jack-o'-lantern? This looks like a jack-o'-lantern. - No, it's Ugly Keith. - It looks like a pumpkin. - Doesn't that look like a pumpkin? - Also looks like a shit emoji. - You know? - That looks like you give it to a dog. - Look at this. Well dogs love lots of shit, my dog- - That is a pumpkin. - My dog ate a pickleball the other day. Doesn't mean it's for him. (Ash laughs) - Also, Zach, there's no glasses. - Um, they must have fallen off. - Right? Oh. (suspenseful music) - The silence is deafening. (laughs) - I like the cinnamon. I like the spiced. - Tastes like cornmeal, cornbread. - Yeah. - I was definitely afraid to overcook it. - Zach, actually- - Yeah, it's like, I love cornbread and this is giving like a cornbread. I don't know if it's - Well, Ugly Keith's from the - I like it. I do taste a lot of the cornmeal in it. I love the cinnamon flavor in it. - Oh, the kids are going crazy. They're flying off the shelves. You can't keep Ugly Keith in stock. Now with my milk, that Ugly He's crazy. You can't hold him down. So you have an oat banana milk. - [Jonny] It's thick. - Yeah, I know you like it thick. - Yeah. Oh yeah. That looks nice. - Jonny's going for it. Okay. - Okay, let's try a Keith. Gotta find one. - Uglier the more delicious. - Yeah, here we go. Here we go. Here we go. - [Ash] I like that - Oh, a full Ugg-O. (dramatic music) It absorbs very quickly, yeah. (Zach laughs) Wow. Zach, like these have, the milk has not been and it's already breaking it back. - Thank you. who doesn't no longer have - You're right and I think So you're welcome. (contestants laughing) - I think I wish it was sweeter. - Okay, make up your mind. Too much sugar turns into alcohol. Not enough sugar and - [Rosanna] It's soggy and then it gets... - [Mitzi] Yeah. - Did you read the catchphrase? First he's soggy, then he stands. - And that is a lot of banana flavor. Like when you take a bite, that's the only thing I can taste. It's just too much banana. How many bananas did you use? - Well, how much milk did you get? There's, there's- - There's multiple bananas. - Some of the milk is on the counter. - Half a banana is your guess? - You put half a banana in there? - [Zach] No, I did a banana - You did a full banana and more? - Well, you kept going. - And then? - Three? - It's too many naners. - It's too many naners, that's bananas. - [Zach] What you're saying is nonsense. - That's too much. Have we lost the plot? (contestants laughing) - That's not the issue to me. - Right. It's not an issue. We're feeling good. Thank you judges. - You know when you're a kid and you're like playing house, it's like as if someone's But they gave you sand - [Rosanna] I kind of preferred - By the way, that's how Why don't you take a take - No, it has to. No, it has to hold up. - You don't tell me how to live my life. (judges laughing) (dramatic music) Judges, is it cereal and milk? (dramatic music) [bleep] off. - It's becoming sludge. - If I eat it fast enough, (contestants laughing) - It's definitely milk. - It's probably this milk's breakfast. - Yeah. - It's horse shit. - Yeah. - Banana milk. - It's porridge. It's porridge. Yeah, it's a no from me, dawg. - It's porridge. - Turns out the only - I like it. - [Producer] Can you thank them please? - No. (contestants laughing) (mysterious music) - Thank you. I think you guys did great. Making cereal is absolutely hard. I made it myself and I Machines actually make cereal, and even though it it's definitely not an easy task. So you guys did amazing. - So you changed your mind on because now you're- - No, I don't. I didn't think you did. (contestants laughing) No, that's nice. But yeah, no, it wasn't amazing. (dramatic music) So in fourth place, and let me say it's very hard to pick just one of you to be forth. We had to go with somebody whose cereal did not hold up under milk. That basically turned once it was added into the bowl with milk. Something that though So in fourth place, I'm sorry to say, (dramatic music) is Ash. - Oh man! - And Ash, that really does pain me because visually your - Oh baby, oh baby. I get a medal for fourth? - You had the makings to be a winner today and that's how bad your cereal is. (contestants laughing) - We discussed a lot. And for third place the milk was weird. The milk was unpleasant tasting. And then the cereal became even weirder and more unpleasant. - Oh god. So in third place. Congratulations, (suspenseful music) Zach. - Oh! - Oh my God! Oh my God! - Oh! You're a loser! - Oh my God! - Jared! Just this way. - Are you out of your [bleep]ing minds? (contestants laughing) - Oh my God, I feel better about myself! - I gave you nanas, I gave you story. I gave you a universe. What about the dolphins? - Yeah. - I actually have a premonition that we are going to catch heat for this because visually your So like I said to Ash, like it just, it just should tell you. I wish you could have tasted it. (contestants laughing) (dramatic music) - For the winner, it was - Was it? - Really? It was a lot of textures - No baby, it was like picking like the winner of the Republican Like we gotta put, we but they're all [bleep]ing shit. - It was a lot of textures It was some ingredients missing. And the winner is... (dramatic music) Marissa. - Yeah. Happy birthday to you Happy birthday - Well &quot;Without A Recipe: Kitchen Madness&quot; is off to a wild start. Ash and I are off to the loser bracket while Jared and Marissa go on to compete against the winners of the next episode. We will see you next week Goodbye! (judges cheering) - You made rice wine. - Ash. - Ash, I'll talk to you if (contestants laughing) [Narrator] Next time on Girl Scout Cookies! - Joyce, the little ones. None of this is right. [Rosanna] Oh, my. I have to dissect. What is going on? [Keith breathing deeply] No! They look like they're about to burn and I'm scared Ugh! I'm a little nervous It's so tart? Binge the first 3 epiodes right now on 2ndtry.tv And the full season starting next week [Kwesi] Man, it's Without a [Jared] Without a Recipe, baby! [calming tones]