The Buddha's Path: Awakening 1. A Bird in a Cage. the body so that you're familiar with it. When for sure--every part of it is inconstant. When to a sense of disenchantment--disenchanted with they're unreliable. So you want to find a way out, It's like a bird in a cage: It sees the drawbacks obsessed with finding a way out of the cage. It's give it food to eat, it's still not happy, because The same with our heart: When it sees stressfulness, and not-selfness it will try to contemplate how to 2. The Power of the Dhamma. and give rise to venerables. In other words, they what's right arise. They get rid of what's evil is dirty: If you sweep it out and wipe away the As long as what's wrong in the mind isn't gone, you won't know the truth. The Buddha's Dhamma is it wouldn't be a Dhamma with any power. into noble ones, because it enables people 3. Your Own Witness. like going to the home of friends or relatives fruit in your hand, you don't know whether if you simply hold the fruit in your hand, you have to bite into it and chew it. or sweet or what its various flavors It's the same with the Dhamma. In everything, the You don't have to take anyone else. The affairs the affairs of other people. If something is lies within you. It has you as its witness. When to be complete in study, practice, and attainment. then patipatti: You put it into practice. With the truth arises within you. If you simply listen, If you talk about it, you speak in line with out to talk about. This means you haven't the Dhamma. Your heart isn't Dhamma, but you can This is called being incomplete according 4. The Language of the Dhamma. of the Dhamma. I'll give you a simple example. word "hot" in Thai is rawn. In Isaan it's hawn. Languages are like that. Each person speaks in same heat. If you want to find where all these all comes together where we stick our finger into finger into the tea, the heat is no different person to stick his finger into the tea. The only is the same for everybody. When you know heat, 5. Open Your Eyes. their eyes. If they're happy, everything shuts That's what gets you thinking, and you can really more you have to investigate it to see what causes away on its own. Right now my arm feels heavy--why? the glass won't be heavy, or at least won't be The same with stress and pain: Why is it heavy? onto it. But you don't understand that it's something good. When you're told to let it go, you you can't put it down. So you keep 6. Dyeing the Cloth. our foundation in good shape first, get everything or a building. We have to inspect the ground, the that it's in proper shape. Or like dyeing cloth: look it over to see if it's dirty. If it's dirty, Only then will it take the color when you dye it. it will take the dye. It's the same with making Making your mind clean means letting go of evil and evil. That's when you can do good, do what's be clean first, and then whatever you do will you have to abandon evil, abandon what's wrong, that you can dye your cloth. This is one of the 7. Remove the Weeds. grow big and beautiful, you have to remove the chance to grow large and beautiful--because you've around the vegetables, so the vegetables can and mind. If we remove our bad actions, So take the precepts and follow 8. Why Wait? in your thoughts, words, and deeds, remove it. like a wound appearing in your body, or a thorn but would it be better to remove it today or Or suppose you get a stomachache and you want the pain to go away. or would tomorrow be better? Or would you 9. Awakening to the Dhamma. Dhamma: These things sound awfully exalted, people like us are on a level where we can reach "This is evil. It's wrong and doesn't benefit in this way, that's called reaching the Dhamma of awakening to the Dhamma. It's like going to a you've reached the landing. When you come up here hall. When you're correctly acquainted with the reaching the Dhamma. When you've reached the and decrease. When your views are right, it's 10. Knowledge &amp; Goodness. You hone it until it's sharp--really knife can cause both benefits and harm. it's sharp. A person of discernment can get But a person without discernment can use it destroy harmony--all kinds of things. And he When knowledge comes to a fool, it's like or an evil person. He'll shoot people place. When knowledge comes to a wise person, These days we pin our hopes on knowledge. We or correctness. When you have knowledge, you When you encourage these things, the world will so I'm in charge." In this way, everything goes to hell. That's what it's like when 11. Goodness Without Discernment. pleasure or happiness. It has to see what it's like. You have to use your Some people think that gaining a lot of wealth matter to them how you gain it, just as long as decide that human skin fetches a high price. One another group goes out looking for human skins. all over the place simply to get skins to put up These days we look for our livelihood, the better. But if we gain it in a way Every form of goodness has to be done done without discernment is harmful. Any form of Any form of goodness done without discernment It's like a person advertising "My poison is good. If you feed it to a dog, the person will die. If you feed it to a feed it to will all die. So buy my poison. you should try feeding it to the person selling eats it dies. So he says it's good. If it's selling it--but would he eat it? He wouldn't That kind of goodness is goodness outside the filthy goodness, unclean goodness, goodness the Buddha's teachings is goodness look for happiness in line with the Buddha's 12. Genuine Wealth. A person with virtue has wealth. In terms of out for our livelihood will be Right Livelihood. even if they're not much, are large. They're they count as bhoga-sampada: consummation in Even tiny pieces have a high price because they're that we use to maintain our livelihood: If they're 13. Seeing the Fullness. what is merit? It's correctness. In other away from all kinds of evil. All of you but when you look for the merit, each of you brought here are objects--lots of different tastes because of objects. But when you're The fullness doesn't have any substance, but don't see merit. Not seeing merit is like not we all eat a meal. We use up the curry; we use we gain? Fullness. Fullness isn't a thing, but does it come from? It comes from objects, It's the same with merit. I've heard people I've gained any merit." Apparently any fullness. Don't you know what fullness is? The activity we're doing now a convention. The merit is in the 14. The Teacup. Patriarch, something I've heard from other people. gave him a teacup. It was really beautiful. There he received the teacup, he suffered: Where was he put it in his shoulder bag. If anyone touched his the teacup. Watch out for the thing that can break suffering from it: suffering from having and One day a novice let the teacup slip from his "At last. That's the end of events happening to free him from his he would've probably been reborn It's like the things in your you suffer because you want to have things. you'll be comfortable. But once you have they'll get lost. You don't understand 15. Pouncing on Fire. look after our mind. Our mind, when it's not doesn't know anything. Whatever it comes across, on the water. If it comes across fire, it pounces 16. Learning about Fire. what you're doing, you can stop. until you can give it up. It's like lighting a doesn't know anything. It crawls over Then it'll start crying. The next day, if it won't touch it, for it's seen the harm from Right here is where insight helps us. We really 17. Teaching from the Top. the Buddha's teachings is that virtue comes and discernment comes at the end. That's how you don't teach virtue first. You get them to sit about, one, virtue; two, concentration; three, quiet. When they're quiet, they'll sense things snake under a piece of cloth right here. We can don't know it's there. But when the mind is It's like this tree here. We're told to can also teach people to grab hold of the they'll get to the base. If you you'll get to the top--because the base It's the same when you try to figure out how when the mind is quiet, it'll sense that something seep in, and the mind will gradually 18. Drop after Drop. see which object is right for you. It's like food choose which foods are right for the conditions meditation object right for you. The in-and-out In practicing, you have to keep at it gradually steadily into a big water jar. The jar doesn't die. If you contemplate the Dhamma themes of understand, it's like loosening a bolt no longer so tight--so that you don't grasp at 19. Just Right. his head bent back? Is it hanging down in front? let's make our bodies just right, our minds just there won't be any stillness. Have you ever right aren't really good? When things are good, every way. You don't have to look far away. It's good? If it's too bland, is it good? When a cook right. She aims at "just right." So today let's 20. Everything Gathers in the Ocean. rivers. They flow into the ocean from different It's the same when we meditate. We all bring clinging. Big rivers, small rivers, all gather in from, they all gather in the ocean. We practice clinging to the five aggregates. It's all the see that this method is easier than that one, you is easier, you can take that one. It's just a 21. Coconut Water. is a little hard to maintain, but the refined all come out of this. It's as if they're distilled it's like a coconut tree. A coconut tree absorbs water reaches the coconuts, it's sweet and clean. dirt. But as the water gets absorbed up the tree, reaches the coconuts it's cleaner than before. And and discernment of your path are crude, but if more and more refined, their crudeness will that the area you have to maintain grows smaller 22. Patience. Desire is something known right at the mind. nets. As soon as they catch a fish, they rush The fishermen are afraid that the fish will the fish are confused and hard to control, This is why people in the past taught to keep at it gradually and steadily. When you you do it. If you keep doing it a lot, the mind will calm down. When you practice, When you feel diligent, you do it. When practice like a person spinning a fire stick. again because you're impatient, you won't When you practice, you don't need to think at yourself. You don't have to survey you see other people. It's like aspirin and because they're both meant to cure the People who practice and those who but it's like putting your hand palm-up and hasn't gone away anywhere. It's right there, practicing, you don't see things for what 23. The Dhamma in a Pot. purpose does it serve? If we don't practice with curry and pepper sauce, and then eat it--what good. The Buddha's teachings are the cooked rice the pot, what purpose will they serve? They just rice and then just set it high on the table, will We take the Buddha's teachings and simply set them on bowing down to them. If we really bow down, believe and trust them, we have to practice teachings will serve a purpose. They depend 24. Chickens Coming to the Monastery. never come to the meditation hall to chatting with their children and grandchildren, and don't understand anything. This isn't coming into the monastery like chickens. Chickens scratching around for dog shit and pig shit. the right way to come to a monastery. It's coming coming into the monastery without seeing monks. water, or an earthworm living in the dirt, It's the same with us. We come into the monastery come into the monastery without reaching the only for us but also for our children and monastery gives rise to merit, and it's something coming to the monastery and we simply follow or fifties and someone teaches the Dhamma, Dhamma, or Sangha, we don't understand 25. Thieves. a sense of compunction: These are qualities world only because we practice them. If we don't Westerners have called me on this. They say, "You so why does it have so many thieves?" I admit but it's people who are thieves. The Dhamma West. Not only in Thailand do we have dishonest morality is still good. So I admit that there are 26. The Blind Person. what is white like? It's like white lime. sky. What's a pale sky like? This never the truth. Fish live in the water but don't but don't see the dirt. Not seeing yourself, with his skeleton and getting frightened by Listening to the Dhamma gives lots of merit in in your foot. As soon as you see it, you take it to the Dhamma are those who don't know the cause and don't know the practices leading to they don't really know suffering 27. don't run along. in a way that solves problems at the same time. your sensitivity, your thought-fabrications. fabrication. To put it in simple terms, don't with them. They're just an affair of mental now wanting this, now wanting that. Try their stages as they're happening. Whatever each and every one. When you see this Whatever thoughts arise, know that they're not and they'll end on their own. When and that's the end of the matter. They're just we'll think that they're an affair of ideas are all an affair of fabrication. They're knowledge. They're knowledge that doesn't 28. The Salt of Meditation. meat. Meditation is like salt. For you have to salt it. Meditation is what makes correct. That's why meditation is something of 29. Complete Food for the Mind. are like our food. If virtue were food, we'd say add concentration, that adds some richness. Now if all you have is sweet and rich, it's still not have all three, then the food is complete. Whether sweet, rich, and good-smelling. It makes you 30. Moving the Glass. Bhavana, meditation, means making the mind to do a lot of things. It's kind of like taking then lifting it and setting it there back and forth like this, When you meditate, contemplate the breath. When short or long. Whatever it feels like, Whether the mind gets quiet or not, don't worry 31. Better Than No Rice. then even if your mind isn't yet quiet, simply good. It's better than people who don't even today there's only rice, with nothing to go with better than having no rice at all. Eating plain If all you have is plain rice, eat that for the at all. The same with this: Even if we know only 32. The Chicken in the Cage. putting it into a cage. Let it stay in just it won't get out of the cage, but it will walking back and forth is no problem, because It's like the things we sense and still. When we sense things in the stillness, it doesn't disturb us. When we think and sense Some people, when they sense things, don't wrong. There are things you'll sense but they won't annoy you. The The problem is when the chicken leaves the cage. you forget. You go traveling to your home or into an hour to come back. That's dying without so be careful. This is important. The mind has to be careful. You have to be mindful. you have to pull it back in--although to say that back in. Wherever your thoughts go, it's just a the mind to stay here, it stays here. As long anywhere. The change is right here in the mind. it doesn't really go. The change happens right it's immediately here. It doesn't leave 33. Only One Hole Open. heart. Make mindfulness continuous. Get leaving just awareness. Like Tuccho Potthila: novice taught him that there's a termite the lizard hiding in the hollow inside the off five of the holes and leave open only one it comes out. In other words, leave your and be aware right at the heart. That's what The same today: To catch all your awareness restraint of the senses. You restrain your eyes, entire body, and simply be aware at the heart. 34. The Water Cooler. by memorizing it, there can still be doubts. doubts. It's like this water cooler that has It won't go out any other way. If you tilt it for there's no opening. And the advice you hear that opening. Try to make your mind go right to another direction, it won't come out, for there's and it will flow right out. "Oh. This is how 35. Recognizing Fire. When we see the cause that gives rise to stress, that. We don't say that. We practice so that our It's the same as when a person makes a mistake doesn't recognize fire. If people recognize who grabs hold of it, they get burned. Once they The mind is hotter than fire, but nobody senses to worry about. They don't know that whatever's human beings keep grabbing hold of it--sometimes craving. They're slaves. All of us: If we don't 36. Looking for a Teacher. on how to meditate, you have to look for who really act in line with what they who practice to gain release from suffering, This energizes your practice because it gives If the teachers are lay people like you, have spouses, children, belongings--they're and then in the morning they drink beer, When you study in school, what do you do? You right? Only then will you study with them. When you practice the Buddha's teachings, when you practice meditation, you have light defilements--people who've been able to 37. The Stick in the Stream. Walk in a way that correctly follows the Dhamma in line with virtue, concentration, is right, and I firmly believe that the It's like cutting a stick and throwing it into go rotten and it doesn't get snagged on the far on floating along with the current. And you can One of the stream banks is pleasure. The mind. As it floats along with the current pain will bump into it often. As long as your it'll reach the current flowing 38. Addicted to Curry. it plain rice every day, it'll get fat like curry in with the rice, just one or two meals, it won't eat it. It gets addicted to smells, and tastes are things that can destroy requisites--clothing, food, shelter, and 39. Eating the Hook. that hair of the head, hair of the body, nails, It's like a fish biting a hook. Whether it's know. It wants to bite the bait, but what comes so that the fish can't get away. No matter how It's the same with us: When we see hair teeth, and skin, we like them. We fall for By the time we realize what's happened, it's get away. If we think about getting away to our belongings--worried about all kinds stay right there until we die. This means that know and so we're deluded--like the fish that's which is the hook. If it really knew the hook, it The reason we're stuck in the world is because They're "wonderful." We like these things; we there's nothing much to them. It's just a matter that's all. Take this and 40. The Tree in the Seed. in your practice, it's a kind of concentration, just the flower--but out of the flower comes the are not the same. Things that are buried inside, Suppose that you eat some jackfruit and lift out jackfruit tree, but at the moment, you don't see split open the seed, you still wouldn't see the you feel that there's no tree in there. Why? things. If you plant a jackfruit seed in the appear. Branches will appear. They'll get bigger appear. Big fruits will appear. Ripe fruits just a seed, you can't point to these things in When you're meditating, you're picking up a tree. It's the same as picking up a jackfruit What gets in the way? The sweet flavor flavor gets in the way. We haven't yet made jackfruit seed. All we can see is that the things get in the way of our seeing the It's the same with us as we practice. We sit on top of the Dhamma. We lie down on top Dhamma with every step--but we don't 41. Running in Circles. you can still be stupid. You can still you can be stupid and suffer. It's like it stinks. If you hold it with There's a way in which it's right to think but living with a lot of people can I myself have gained a lot of discernment from with lots of ideas and lots of experiences come greater powers of endurance. I can endure. I can The cycles of wandering-on keep spinning around--so up, can you catch up with them? Just stand in one on their own. It's like a wind-up doll running the middle and you'll see it each time it runs 42. Lifting the Bowl. from? It's like lifting this bowl and feeling heavy any more. As soon as you lift it up again, come from? We feel heavy because we've lifted cause of its heaviness and we're light. Right? cessation of stress. Know the path of practice you do. Just put down the cause, and the stress When we start out, we don't understand anything. is it heavy? We don't understand. Why is it because this person criticizes us. All kinds in our own hand. But if we put it down We're not suffering because we're not lifting 43. See for Yourself. you no longer have any questions about what Paa because you've already seen for yourself. As long asking other people. Keep that up until you die, Because all you know is what other people say. it's not clear. Your knowledge doesn't reach the This is why the Buddha taught us to meditate so As long as you simply believe what other people 44. Talk about Blindness. describes it in a way that's unclear because like talking to a person who's totally blind. Something really yellow: Go and ask a blind person the less he knows. So how do you solve the "Why are you blind?" You'd do better to talk his eyes are good, then you don't have to teach 45. Your Duty. and fertilize it, that's all. Whether it's going It's the duty of the tree. You can stand there but it won't get you what you want. Where do good." So you pull up the tree. Its roots are just keep pulling it up, again and again, until it Your desire for it to grow fast is craving. Are you going to follow your craving, or are this every day. What you're doing: Why are you're doing it with craving. If you let go, you'll do it when you feel industrious. lazy. You do it only when you feel that follows your craving. When are you 46. Sitting with a Cobra. aware all the time. The problem is how to keep it wide and you're sitting inside it. And too. What would your mind be like then? Because you won't dare lie down. You won't dare of the cobra. When you understand in this 47. The Spider. we're like a spider making its web. It stretches in the center. Quiet. Still. Unmoving. Mindful. the web, the spider knows. It gets up and into food. Once the spider has caught its It makes itself quiet and alert. Mindful. the web. As soon as something touches it, it's The spider is like our mind. The mind lies ears, nose, tongue, body, and mind. That's the way it is with a person who practices. If we'll get to know ourselves. We'll get to know 48. A Road Through the Wilderness. have to do. As you train the mind over time, it's you're walking in the wilderness, but if you every day, the path gradually changes. The and the road becomes an easy place to walk. 49. Roads to Pass By. Pong Monastery, there are roads crossing your way. because you don't want them. The same with all the quiet down but then we bring in disturbing understand that they're simply roads to pass by, That's what it means to cut preoccupations what will it know? What will it see?" Cut those 50. Know One, Know Them All. everything: When you know one, you know them It's kind of like recognizing what All you have to do is learn to recognize one and find other animals like this one, you'll know go remembering that those other ones aren't ducks. When you're sitting in meditation and a sound disturbing you. When that awareness arises, you have to solve the problem. Discernment will judge things for yourself. Wherever you get Your duties while you practice concentration one. Know the breath coming in, the breath going focus on the breath again. When not knowing whether it's coming in or going 51. Two Different Things. sounds get you all upset, you go away from that if there are sounds there, you get upset from perceptions. You don't know in line with the and sounds live with you, and there are no issues, an example. If you lift up this object, it's Why is it heavy? Because you lift it up. Why is not lifting it. "Lifting it" is simply a sound is disturbing you. If you think in that weighs one kilogram. If you leave it there, sounds. If you leave the sounds alone, they won't 52. Killed by the Mind. really important. It can kill you or see this from wild animals that we are really afraid of people. If you pounce it'll die. What killed it? The fierceness of afraid that it dies. Just like people: When we get the tears will flow--because the mind doesn't 53. Hiding in the Mind. we don't see any good or bad kamma. There's the things in one life can't be held in our when a child is born, it doesn't bring are things that come along, simply that they come I'll give you an example, like a mango seed you can examine it carefully and not find because they're very subtle. But there's coming into this life doesn't hold anything in these things appear when nature begins a mango seed: the trunk, the leaves, the If we plant the seed in the ground, it'll turn This is why the Buddha said that kamma is what 54. Strength &amp; Harmony. Discernment is a strength. When they pool their and the same, that's called magga-samangi: the that's when you awaken to the Dhamma. It's we can be at our ease. Like students or teachers: are in harmony, the whole school is at ease. When are not in harmony, running off in different and students have to cooperate: teachers following duties as students. Each person performs his or The same with practicing concentration: and discernment, all kinds of good right where they're helping To bring the matter in even closer, into water, fire, and wind are in harmony, of the harmony within it. But if the body too much earth, and not enough wind--the 55. You Know You're Full. think about what we're doing as days and nights we have a refuge we can depend on. For example, says, "What you did is wrong," then you that you do good things but think things that and you become not good in line with then even if other people say, "not good," you're what you did was good. It's like eating people come and say you're not full, will that you're already full. When you can believe in From there you go to attana codayattanam: You wrong, admonish yourself. Whatever 56. Husk &amp; Not-husk. yourself," "self" is atta. As for yourself, is murky. You filter it and see the clear water water." If you filter yourself, it'll be anatta, not-self. That's when it's anatta in line But some people think that if everything is We have to understand self and not-self. ever been to a market to buy a coconut? it has its husk and its shell. They come "Hey. That husk. That shell. Are you going to put carrying them?" The person buying the coconut but you have to bring them along. The time hasn't along. This is convention. When you buy a coconut, Conventions and release come along