Transcriber: Steffi Medrano Two weeks ago, I'd been crafting a talk for you about But I was really struggling So I called my husband Tom thinking he'll have a great insight. But he was just standing there And then he said the one thing when you are two weeks "I don't know what you're trying to say." (Laughter) And the truth is, after two months, I wasn't either. And what he said next changed everything. "I know you're passionate "but I'm just surprised It's the most interesting So, you know, when someone has just nailed you and but you know the moment you'll have accepted that truth. So that happened. And now this niggling feeling The next feeling's like panic. I'm walking around the room, "I can't change my talk But I did. And I found the courage somehow and listen to the voice that had been And I assure you, because today I'm going and why it is the most powerful tool for our own personal development and You see, I've been cultivating and I use it to help people By doing that, I believe for humanity and our planet. And here's the thing about intuition. It's free. (Laughter) You were born with it. It's our inner compass, it will guide you through but you cannot quantify it. You cannot touch it, see it, And I'm not suggesting My academic brain knows But I believe that when we combine that is the greatest and we have for change and Albert Einstein said and that our rational mind But he also noticed that and we'd forgotten the gift. So let me introduce you The first you'll recognize straight away. You think of someone you haven't and suddenly they message you. Or you just feel pulled and something significant happens. Or the opposite, And sometimes you'll use or you'll talk about Sometimes you'll get physical symptoms like hair standing on the back And we share this with the people And we're like, ooh, yeah, And this where most of us But there is so much more. Level two I call inspiration And inspiration, what's important is that you learn to ask questions Which is a bit more complicated because when you first the answers come in milliseconds and you can lose them with thoughts "Oh, I should go for that job." Intuition. Yes. Thought, I'll go, but am I good enough? And what will people think? But when you cultivate this space, you can learn to amplify and trust that. And at this stage, it's very exciting when you start making you're given the evidence that it works and it can feel I love that story when Paul McCartney He heard the tune in a dream. But when he woke, he immediately and he searched for those notes That's intuition in action That happens in REM sleep. Thomas Edison famously used because that's where his best ideas came. And then there's level three. Trust. Complete trust that intuition You know exactly what is conscious and you can bring them Sometimes people are called pioneers But those words, they can make us feel But you can get there, too. and be at any level you want to be at. But if intuition is this powerful, why hasn't it been more prevalent Three historical clues. Plato and Socrates discussing, Which led to this centuries long I don't know why it was a competition, Secondly, the patriarchal nature that emotions and intuition That was evidence of our inferiority. So men couldn't really use them then. And science. Francis Bacon, the father That the purpose of knowledge Nature has no purpose. The body politic took that one. They exploited and it increased our disconnection but from ourselves. So if we are to cultivate intuition, Any breath-based practice, meditation being the most well known. Even more powerful If you're creative, Nature. Nature immersion, the most powerful one not walking in nature and about the weekend although But going in purposely and sitting and seeing what that does to you. There's a practice formalized that originated in Japan It's emerging in the U.K. as well. And this is a facilitated process and learn how to connect. It first started when there was a pandemic of suicide in Japanese executives. They got taken into the forest. Their breath slowed down, And then they could return This practice is now encouraged Nature connection And if this is sounding how do you think You watch content you experience in that content, Intuition is no different, except And if you like look to neuroscience, where it is definitively proven, the connection between feelings So what I'm saying is It helps us be different. And if logic got us into this mess and we have a mental health pandemic, surely we need to look to new paradigms. Ones that are more restorative Ones that embrace intuition as a bridge I promise you, intuition will make You will be a better leader, a better parent and So I'm going to leave you Do you want to reach Because intuition is and it's waiting to be accessed Thank you. (Applause)