The Bible- for some a source of controversy, What both sides can agree on though is that its pages. 10. We'll start with something relatively light. We say relatively, but in today's world, of a tri-level podium with Ted Bundy and John their respective silver and bronze medals. His name was Abimelech. He was partial to the odd massacre, but they It's what he did to become king that gets Abimelech had many brothers, 70 of them, which Those brothers were only half-brothers since One day Abimelech went to his mother and asked, seems best to you? Do you really want all of Gideon's 70 sons Remember, I'm your own flesh and blood." He was given 70 pieces of silver, which he They were ok with bashing some brothers up They helped him kill all of the brothers, Notably, all the brothers were slain on the Abimelech was cursed after that, and he died of. A woman dropped a stone on his head from a Dying on the floor, Abimelech told one of know a member of the fairest sex felled him. According to the bible, in Judges 9, "So done to his father when he killed his 70 brothers. God also paid back the men of Shechem for Hubris, greed, vengefulness, it doesn't Make no mistake, God's wrath was hardcore, 9. Again, we are going to discuss some brotherly the other. Fratricide might not be very common these rage. Be thankful your older brother only ever pushed This story is about Cain, and his older brother, It's one of the most well-known tales in Here's the abridged version. Cain was the firstborn of the couple we all Then Abel came along, and thus started the It was when they got older that all the problems Cain was a farmer, and one day he made a sacrifice Cain expected to be in the good books for But that never came. Then Abel, the shepherd, came onto the scene He gave God the firstborn of his flock. God was actually well pleased with both sacrifices, Why? Because Abel gave of his firstborn from amongst of himself- while Cain's offering has no place God, or his faith, first.. Abel had living faith, while Cain's was so God was more pleased with Abel. Cain sulked and cried like a child who'd Then God said to him, "Why are you angry? Why is your face downcast? If you do what is right, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do what is right, sin is you, but you must rule over it." Given that he'd just killed his brother God then famously asked, "Where is your Cain replied with the immortal lines, "I Am I my brother's keeper?" But oh, Cain knew alright. Out of jealousy, he'd murdered his own brother. God said, "Now you are under a curse and to receive your brother's blood from your He cursed Cain to wander the Earth in torment, Cain had said, "I will be a restless wanderer me." God said, nah, no deal. No one will kill you. That's why he put the mark on Cain, to let Cain had no love, no God, no brother, no friends, His pitiful envy had done that. He had to go live in the Land of Nod, which from social media. The story is very important, which is why German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche said much of the misery of man. It makes us weak and sick, and it makes us to life itself. The story of Cain and Abel represents that Just look at Twitter, it's full of Cains. So, Cain makes the list with just one kill the lodestone of human hatred, envy, and suffering. It's a brilliant tale. This next one is about plain cruelty. 8. One day a guy named Herod the Great heard born king of the Jews? We saw his star when it rose and have come Wait on a minute, Herod thought, I'm the He then asked where this king was born, to Ok, he thought, I better rub out this ostensible Tracking down a newborn without ID is hard transport options were few and far between. But Herod sent someone to look for the baby. They were the Three Wise Men, and when they gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Those former two tree resins were just as To cut a long story short, the wise guys never and kill the infant Jesus. The bible says, "He was furious, and he and its vicinity who were two years old and This became known as the "Massacre of the If it actually happened- and most biblical kill count was somewhere between 14,000 and You see, resentment again. This next king was arguably worse, but for 7. His name was Ahaz, and he was the king of One Christian website we found called him It's said his actions led to the destruction He worshipped idols, which was pretty much also sacrificed two of his own kids to a pagan In the eyes of God, this was not cool at all. This is from Leviticus 18:21, "And thou apart to Molech, neither shalt thou profane Ahaz even started messing with temples, restructuring around Judea where people could pray to idols. This was a man that went to the dark side. It would be an understatement to say God didn't Especially when they were burning their infant Now for a really sad love story. 6. "Why, why, why Delilah?" goes a 1960s pop song. Indeed, why Delilah? The next lines are, "I could see, that girl But I was lost like a slave that no man could Delilah was a Philistine, folks who settled They became the enemies of the Israelites. What you need to know is that Delilah met This is from Judges 16, "One day Samson He went in to spend the night with her." A plan was made to kill him by some Israelites ripped the doors off the city gate and walked champion. This was some strong dude. Then he met Delilah, and so the Philistine him into showing you the secret of his great She agreed, but only when she was told eleven deal. She then used her charms to make him fall time, she was feigning reciprocity of that She tried three times to get it out of him the smitten warrior told her: "It's my Samson said, "No razor has ever been used If my head were shaved, my strength would other man." She told the Philistines and collected her someone cut off his locks. Delilah didn't feel the least bit guilty. You could do a lot back then with 1,100 silver The Philistines gouged out Samson's eyes, They then made him a prisoner. The Philistines made him put on a show like into their royal palace, where he prayed to to atone for his sins by taking the Philistine palace pillars. The love story has been called "the archetypal of warring nations." This next one might be the worst promise ever 5. The star of this story was named Jephthah. His mother was a prostitute, maybe a busy father was. Jephthah was a mighty warrior, but it seems He was driven out of his house by his brothers But later, when the Ammonites started giving the help of Jephthah. He said to them, "Did you not hate me and Why have you come to me now when you are in They said, c'mon, let bygones be bygones, But he said once he'd won the battle, he was the case, they'd be glad to have him Later, Jephthah made the sort of deal that We now call this kind of deal a "Faustian the good guy, not the devil. Jephthah said to God: hand, then whatever comes out from the doors from the Ammonites shall be the LORD's, He won the battle, of course. The next part in the bible reads, "The Ammonites But guess who should walk out of Jephthah's His only daughter! She was in a great mood over the victory, She saw he looked a bit glum and, feeling Jephthah then said, "I have opened my mouth He allowed his daughter a trip to the mountains her virginity," but when she came back, There is a message here, but we'll let a "As a potential mother, the daughter represents Her father's shortsightedness signifies In the biblical context, the message is even Now for another evil woman. 4. Her name was Herodias. She was a princess of Judea around the time It was a strange time for sure. Her father was Aristobulus IV. He was murdered by his own father, Herod the Innocents. He killed two of his sons after accusing them With that in mind, Heriodias was always going She married one of the surviving sons of Herod her half-uncle. His name was Herod Antipas. Moving on, according to the gospels of Matthew of all the inter-marrying going on in this For that, he was put in prison. Still, Herod Antipas did not want to kill But then one night there was a party, and wonderful dance performance. Herod got a bit excited watching this. The stepdaughter was the daughter of Herodias. Herod told her, for that outstanding performance, The young girl wasn't sure what she wanted, She told her daughter to ask for John's You see, she still had a beef with him over In Matthew 14, it's written, "His head girl, who carried it to her mother." Obviously, the evil here is shared among many The next guy is said to have been the worst 3. He was King Ahab, sometimes called the most That's a tall order, given the history of In 1 Kings 16:30, It's written, "Ahab more than all who were before him." But why? Well, there are a few reasons, but one thing the execution of a vineyard owner named Naboth. Ahab wanted to buy the vineyard because the Naboth didn't want to sell. God's land was not for sale by law. Basically, after colluding with his equally He got witnesses to lie and say Naboth had Naboth was subsequently stoned to death, and It's also said that the King and his wife so the vineyard didn't go to them. Now you should hear about the evil queen. 2. Her name was Jezebel, a woman that was said devilish. She was a heathen, and helped spur the worship Israel. Notably, this meant the sacrifice of infants fair bit. She was portrayed as being very cunning, materialistic, If this helps, one source we found called It was her who was supposed to be the main to manipulate the king so easily. In this respect, she was as bad as him, although that interpretation. She worshipped false prophets, she connived was also said to be one reason why Israel You just can't get away with stuff like First, God made sure that Ahab died in battle, even directly aimed at him. That was God's work. Jezebel's oldest son was killed in what That was after he'd sat on the throne. God's wrath later ensured her youngest son She knew then that her time was up. One day she put on a wig, her finest clothes, She wanted to go out looking good. Her eunuch servants then pushed her out of For good measure, she was trampled by horses. Later, when she was to be buried, only her Wild dogs had devoured her, which was prophesied. In 2 Kings 9:30-37, it says, "Jezebel's plot at Jezreel, so that no one will be able Ok, now for perhaps the most famous, baddest 1. No, not Satan, because Satan isn't so much The person we are going to talk about is Judas He's the man that betrayed Jesus in the Ok, so you could say that without Judas, Jesus if that hadn't happened, then the entire But at the time, Judas didn't know Jesus He also received payment for his dark deed. In the garden, Judas kissed Jesus' hand a ruse so that people in the crowd would know Jesus knew this would happen, of course. He once said, "He that eateth my bread lifted In another part of the bible, Jesus told his and he was Judas. It's written that at the Last Supper, Jesus to do, do quickly." That makes Judas the bad man in the bible. What could be worse than going against the And to do it for a fistful of cash! This is from Matthew 27:1-10: "When Judas, he was seized with remorse and returned the and the elders. 'I have sinned,' he said, 'for I have Hence the expression, "blood money." We don't know much about Judas. Some scholars question whether he existed about. The bible says the reason for the betrayal Such greed was the work of Satan, who wasn't the embodiment of evil, that which steers As for what happened to Judas, there are different In The Acts of the Apostles, it's written, Judas bought a field; there he fell headlong, spilled out." That seems a bit harsh. Let's face it, Judas was a necessary evil. Now you need to watch "Was Jesus Actually Or, have a look at his nemesis "The Origin