I recently described one of maybe 2 or 3 documented accident. You can find the link to that video, and the in the description below, or in the show notes is also linked in the description below. DNP, is a chemical. It can be used for various things, most commonly of weight loss. And the question is, why is it unlawful when speaking in such high praise of it? What could possibly go wrong? Well, if you look online in 2021 internet, saying that 2,4 Dinitrophenol is an explosive. It's a dye. It's a pesticide. It's an industrial chemical. And you know, the Nitro part of Dinitrophenol Like nitroglycerin the explosive in dynamite. Or a nitro engine in a car. All of those uses of Dinitrophenol are true, science deniers or whatever you want to call things" and how much they dislike chemicals. Sometimes to the point of, you know, they But interestingly enough, nitroglycerin is failure. So despite it being an explosive on one front, And the same goes for dinitrophenol. But unlike nitroglycerin, which fills a therapeutic coronary syndrome or unstable angina, dinitrophenol you can absolutely lose weight without it. So let me repeat myself, you don't need The risks outweigh the benefit in the setting People can say whatever they want online. They can make as many videos as they want. But 15 years ago I was in this world, and eyes take DNP, say they enjoyed it. Or say that it did things they couldn't You could possibly die if you take a second I dont know about you but I'm good. CE was a 22 year old man, who was found unconscious 3rd 2015. He had accidentally taken at least 2 of his During that cycle of DNP, CE said he had stopped CE: Up until that point I had been very careful I took it. But I had been doing it so long, I was getting eyeball my dosage because I had done it so He had just started a new cycle, but that then took a nap in the afternoon. CE: And so I took a dose. And I remember immediately feeling awful. And so I decided to go to bed. And somewhere in that time period, I woke or something was going on with this DNP, I mind and not really knowing what was going When I woke up, it was still light out. And because I had slept through the night, afternoon. And so I thought it was much further along And I re-upped kind of in that 12 hour window. He thought it may have been the following final thing he could remember. Now, from the reports that I've looked through, directly. Actually, there's an orphan drug designation ban DNP for human consumption in the late diseases. Im gonna talk a little more about that in So, patient CE not being able to remember DNP accident, may have been due to some other He was still responsive, flowing in and out in law in the shower. CE: By the time the paramedics got there the This is just all accounts from my brother I'm responsive enough to answer kind of the year is it? what day is it? sort of thing. And so I sent them away. I wouldn't go with them. I was under the assumption that ownership I was also worried about some other things. I was also very stubborn so to admit I was And also I didnt really want to incur that And so I sent them away. But once again I lost consciousness. And once again my brother in law finds me Now interestingly about this case, we don't also have a YouTube video where CE himself He describes the social history from his childhood, And then the stressors of his father's sudden to his girlfriend cheating on him. There isn't really a past medical history the video, and CE's recount of the hospitalization the report says he didnt have a fever at admission, it got up to 104 Degrees Fahrenheit. That's no joke, and it's understandable And good thing was that 5 and a half hours resolved and never came back during the stay. Now according to CE, he took DNP a second the shower. That brother in law, then went to get Coca found him unconscious again. Then called the paramedics, who were turned And then 911 was called a second time. That could be a time period of anywhere from Then another 8 hours passed after that before There is at least another case report where also had a sudden rise in body temperature So how does DNP work? Well, we have some ideas but realistically, published on it in living humans. It looks like it uncouples oxidative phosphorylation The proposed mechanism is that in having some membranes. You could make the assumption here that it's DNP gets in to the mitochondria, in to the So I have a correction to make. In the Chubbyemu video I showed the protons DNP. The proposed mechanism postulates that DNP matrix. So, the labels of Intermembrane space and That would mean ATP synthase pore is backwards This is the correct orientation. The mechanism suggests that the anionic form somewhere else to come back and deposit yet The effect of the acid deposition is dissipating the electron transport chain in the mitochondria. By pumping these protons in, it effectively and thereby halting a major source of ATP movement across the gradient to produce ATP. Now, I've thought about this for a while. Maybe I have it wrong. But it kind of reminds me of cyanide, which The thing about cyanide, is that online sources in the body. But if you look at a dissociation curve of that at physiologic pH in the blood, at around Cyanide, not cyanide ion. In fact, as a percent, cyanide ion almost to have basic conditions somewhere in the And I dont think we do. And that 9.2 is the pKa of HCN, so it's and the other half is hydrogen cyanide. The reason why this is important is because Celsius. I dont have the percent dissociation graph increases. So lets say it's like pKa of 4.0 at the This means that at physiologic pH of 7.4, pH of 4, theoretically a majority of DNP would Therefore it would be ionized, and hence not So, where's that proton it would deliver Well, you could say that maybe the mitochondrial The matrix is slightly more basic at pH 7.8 levels between 7 and 7.4. These are all still at least 1000 times more the protons would come from. Unless the dissociation curve is much flatter. I couldn't find one for DNP. There's a paper from 1953 that highlights "For each increase of one pH unit, toxicity A change in pH from 4 to 8 is accompanied times, that is to say that in order to elicit must be applied to the test organism at pH I'm not saying I dont think the uncoupling how it happens. And if we look at the papers published on cultures, not inside humans, and so you can At this point, who knows? Most of the clinical cases published on DNP of mitochondrial uncoupling agents and they And often, like in the case of cyanide, one it was published previously. People writing these cases read the previously In something like DNP that doesn't have appear louder. But this isn't the only thing happening There's definitely other mechanisms happening. In that same paper from 1953 from King's phosphorylation has to do with stimulation that is the breaking down of sugar stores processes. A lot of this information comes from animal And even today, publications are in cell cultures There's really not a whole lot in human Just to give you a perspective on the pace the stimulation of respiration by DNP was in the heavy metal containing enzymes. They knew this back in the 40s. This is likely in reference to the copper electrons to Cytochrome Oxidase, or Complex And that's one mechanism of how cyanide Cytochrome C, and stopping the pumping of the gradient there. DNP is described as inhibiting energy requiring are given of DNP inhibiting phosphate intake, ATP, production. But the mechanism isn't clear here, and OK, so the end result of all this is that Even today, we have kind of an idea of how mechanisms. They knew this in the 1930s at a high level. There's an increase in oxygen consumption, rate, vasodilation, diaphoresis, and hyperglycemia This leads to breakdown of sugars stored in Those stores can hold on to water, and their weight." People who have gotten past that stage of feel different once their body starts tapping For me, usually starts at around week 7 or have DNP. And so in light of the uncoupling oxidative given patient CE flak on his YouTube video too, so DNP just isn't as deadly as CE makes Imagine saying that to one of very few people an accident with DNP. It's such a poorly thought out thing to in the setting of overdose. To restate that, the uncoupling happens when You don't take aspirin to purposely uncouple But you purposely take DNP for weight loss At therapeutic doses, aspirin relieves pain. When the pain resolves, you are not compelled But at "regular" doses of DNP, you lose When the weight loss happens, you can still Depending on the person, some don't have Oh well I've lost 20 pounds in the last How about 40? 50? 60? It's ridiculous to me someone would draw the setting for taking, are completely different. It's not worth the risk, simply said. DNP as a powder is yellow. CE said that during his hospital admission, from his sweat and thought that possibly his Staff had to be resilient on this as it could absorb through the skin, and thus, poison Toxicology has to be diligent about this sometimes This even happens with cyanide poisoning, in the United States used a cyanide chamber after it was done in the fear that cyanide him up. Most of what we know right now about DNP in Long term effects like does it cause cancer? Are not known well. The damage that comes from DNP is because CE's body temperature got up to 104 Fahrenheit. Other DNP cases, and remember, almost all have documented as high as 107 Fahrenheit. CE mentioned in his recount that he likely often now, and everyday in the last 5 years To the tune of once every 30 minutes. Permanent liver damage is a little harder His doctors also noted he could have cognitive caused neuroinflammation, although, in talking and the associated pre calls I had with him, When it comes to DNP, there isn't a known If you accidentally take too much, there isn't it out of your body. To remove it from your mitochondria. I guess if it is lipophilic, then someone as a last resort. The theory behind it is if DNP dissolves in veins could cause it to "suck" DNP out But we have no way of knowing whether this It could make things worse for all we know. CE was fortunate in that dantrolene, which of hyperthermia, may have impacted his high hours after the first dose, and 4 subsequent There was a publication from the UK discussing setting of DNP overdose. The answer is, we dont know, because we don't And I don't usually like telling someone suggest you not be a data point for this. Now, there is a mechanism whereby we are going be research in Huntington's disease. For in-human purposes, I keep seeing comments Hate to break it to you, but it's not. There's some bench top researching happening there's not human studies of DNP in cancer There's also talk about anti-aging research I also hate to break it to you, nothing appreciable Huntington's disease was also known as Huntington's Not chorea as in the country, but as in choreograph. It's a neurodegenerative disease where the movements, and it's associated with psychiatric It's caused by a cytosine-adenine-guanine huntingtin (HTT) gene on chromosome 4p and I dont think we fully understand the pathophysiology, outcomes for it. It is neuro degenerative. So we have supportive care. Now the FDA has a program for rare disease, 200,000 people in the US. When things are given a designation for rare or organization to investigate a compound Basically, it means that there's nothing try anything. In Huntington's case, they tried... creatine. That's right, the supplement that a bunch The trial failed, and they documented it. I wouldn't have thought it would slow the This is just from me, having taken creatine I didn't think it would impact anything like 20 to 40 grams. Usually you take 2-3 grams per day. The trial failed its first futility analysis, bit better. I've worked on a trial that failed its first It's a terrible feeling, because it's and you see it's either not working better and in really bad cases, it could appear it's Then all of the work that was done beforehand done it in the first place. Disaster on all levels. So in that vein, the FDA is really allowing impact on patient outcomes in Huntington's, of symptomatic treatment and supportive care. The rationale for using DNP in this setting species in nerve tissue. We'll see how it goes, hopefully well for I want to believe. I want to be surprised. So that's a little overview of DNP. I didn't want to just restate things you you can find the advertisements that were miracle drug. And then ultimately getting banned by the Thanks so much for watching and listening. Take care of yourself. And Be Well.