- Hydrogen has a very special It's the first element It is the most abundant And when clean energy &quot;What can we find which would be &quot;as easy to use as fossil fuels?&quot; they think about hydrogen, the fuel that will, when - We like to imagine that if we just built enough of these, and these, we could ditch fossil Unfortunately, it's not that simple. There are some things where you just need good old fashioned combustible fuel. Now, startups around the world are betting that hydrogen can become the - Just like today, we use fossil fuels for different applications cars, and trucks, and for all this variety of - Eventually the world's going As soon as you start to care about CO2, hydrogen becomes pretty interesting. - But turning the most common into the new fuel of choice is harder than it might seem. The first thing you need is that not all hydrogen is created equal. Allow us to introduce - Hydrogen is unique because you can generate and the different ways actually are defined by colors. - The rainbow scales from the to the least. - Gray hydrogen means taking natural gas and converting that into hydrogen while creating CO2 Blue hydrogen is gray hydrogen but with carbon capture instead. So there are no CO2 emissions that are put into the atmosphere. Instead, they're captured There's also pink hydrogen where you use nuclear - One color is prized - Green hydrogen is the because it's the hydrogen that to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. - If we could make enough green hydrogen, we'd have a clean fuel source making electricity whenever we need it, powering heavy industry, and theoretically, even in some of the most polluting Today though, most hydrogen is produced on the polluting end of the spectrum. So, engineers are working on getting green hydrogen up to speed. - At H2Pro, we're that splits water into The environment was always dear to me. I remember, as a kid, having the Earth, and it was written on it &quot;Fragile, handle with care&quot;. And being here is a tremendous opportunity to actually do something about it. - Talmon Marco founded for more than a billion dollars before following his green dreams and starting H2Pro in 2019. - The process of splitting water has been known for over 200 years. You put two electrodes in a turn on the power, and you get hydrogen and oxygen bubbles. - Today, I was in my son classroom and I showed them an experiment of how we can split water very easily. I just took a nine-volt battery, placed in the water with some salt, and voila, you have hydrogen That's nice, but it's and therefore very, very costly. The hard thing is how to and with low cost. - Our technology is different in the fact that it's more efficient and it's cheaper to manufacture, resulting in cheaper - That's made possible by Conventional electrolyzers not just to create hydrogen molecules, but also to separate out H2Pro found a way to separate - We have the oxygen being released just by raising the temperature. So we are releasing the oxygen This is the reason why we can This is the unique technology of H2Pro, these specific electrodes themselves, they release the oxygen. The next level, when we're it's going to work in a very - H2Pro's fighting an uphill battle just by virtue of being green. Electrolysis makes up just 2% and many investors didn't - Initially, it was very, very difficult to raise money for H2Pro. In fact, we had to reach until we managed to Scaling is never easy. Our system produces than where we were three years ago, but we still have a ways to go. - The ultimate test will be whether H2Pro can make to race ahead of its more - The long term goal for is for it to cost between We are nowhere close to that. We are probably in the for green hydrogen today. - We anticipate that our customers will have a cost of about $1 by the end of this decade. - Companies like H2Pro before they're producing but being green isn't That'll make sense in a minute. - We describe what we are doing at C-Zero as turquoise hydrogen, 'cause it's kind of a combination of both blue and green in that it's low cost and low emission. C-Zero has developed a technology for removing the carbon in natural gas. Natural gas is a hydrocarbon; it's made out of hydrogen and carbon, and what we do is remove the carbon, so we pull out the solid carbon out of the hydrogen that we produce and there are no direct CO2 emissions because anything that would've been CO2 is instead solid carbon. If you want to get hydrogen from water, it takes seven and a to go pull hydrogen off of as it does to pull hydrogen off of carbon through our process. - The way C-Zero achieves It has a big chamber full of salt that is heated to a very high temperature. - So this is an example of one of our laboratory scale reactors. So right here, we have around 1,000 degrees and slightly above, molten media column. - And it bubbles natural leaving behind carbon and hydrogen as a gas that - If we're successful, we're producing piles of black carbon that ultimately it gets sequestered back into the ground. You can think of it almost as Rather than ending up with CO2 that you have to concentrate, compress, put into a pipeline and we pull it out ahead of time as a solid that's much denser with conventional solids handling - Just like green hydrogen, the success of turquoise hydrogen will ultimately come down to cost. - $1.50 per kilogram of hydrogen is our target for doing If you can be $2 a kilogram or less with very low to zero CO2 emissions, that's kind of a game changer. - The tough economics of hydrogen can make it sound like we're a long way from reaching the cleaner And it's true that companies are going to have to make before they can make a dent But some industrial for the economics to be perfect even in one of the most polluting - SSAB is a steel company of approximately 9 million tons We alone accounts for 10% of If we want to cut with the current We need to change technology. - So that's exactly what SSAB did, developing a way of in their steel making process. - In the process of making steel, a factory has to convert Iron ore is iron plus oxygen. The removal of oxygen requires, typically, the use of coal which will combine with oxygen to form CO2 and warm the planet. You could also use green and that will only produce water. - Our aim is to decarbonize from mining, to iron making, steel making, but also deliver our final without using fossil fuel. That's the aim. We believe this is going to contribute not only cutting our own emissions, but this technology can when they are ready to take this step. - It's not going to be easy for industries to take even when production costs come down. Storing and transporting the stuff is something of a nightmare. And since hydrogen is extremely flammable, safety's always a concern. Just look at the hydrogen Zeppelins of the early 20th century. But if we can overcome the economic and engineering challenges, the most abundant element in the universe could provide the abundant energy we need. - I want to see a decarbonized future but I'm also an engineer, a And that transition to a low carbon future is not going to happen overnight. We need realistic transition options and technologies that our existing applications. - I love this company. I love the people I work with and we're all in this together for this almost sacred mission. This is our duty for our children and for our grandchildren, and for generations to come.