-Mandolin, shmandolin. I'm the human mandolin. Hola, mi gente. I'm a chef and author of this new book which is &quot;Where I Come From: Life Lessons And today I'm really preparing one of the recipes Tio Mario's, my uncle, And every time and be on the road I would call him I would please say, &quot;Can you make me 'Cause there's nothing and having that beautiful smell in that braise kind of So we're gonna go ahead Now, when you think of the word you're thinking maybe, you know, a diced beef chili that sometimes has beans in it. But this is literally and it's something to the northern part of Mexico where my where I'm from It starts with the idea I have some guajillo chiles. And then the chile ancho, which is one of my favorites So I'm gonna just remove If you didn't have a chance you can always go with, That's also another option. Then I'm going to work Now, these chile arbol, the word So they hang off these little miniature trees. The best way I can sort with is like a Cayenne. Reason that I'm using these is 'cause they all serve The chile ancho, that's going to The chile pasilla is really and a little bit The chile guajillo was used used and then the chile arbol So now that I have I'm going to put them here You want to toss these chiles of these chiles They need to be reinvigorated, and they need to wake up Same thing with with dry spices You've got to toast them and really bring out And then we're going to to make them pliable. And that's really going to help It's going to render some smoke. It might kind of You kind of build if you've been doing it I'm gonna add them into and then I'll take just And then at that point, And let it do its thing. But in the interim, start for the actual chili Colorado. So you can do this with pork, or you can use short rib, You're going to braise this so you want it of fat and marbling, it doesn't basically turn to -- So going to cut these into some Now we're going to and really start a lot of those initial flavors. As my pot is getting nice and I like to do like this ahead 'Cause then I'm assured even distribution of salt I put a little bit of oil. Why do I put oil? 'Cause it allows for that 'Cause you lose about 60 percent of your salt and pepper 'cause you don't have a little to stick and adhere. And I'm being very generous 'Cause this beef is going Fresh cracked pepper. Then I'm going to start -So you want to make sure is in direct contact and I'm just gonna So to this, I'm gonna add I'm gonna add some carrot, So the idea is you just want on one side. And the reason I like to do that you have that crust But on the other side, it allows that broth to really do its thing All right. So now which are my foundation flavors. The meat looks fantastic. Gonna remove all of that. And then I'm gonna start And to this, a little bit Okay? You don't want to rush You really want and make sure that those Now that that's cooking, I'm going to add hojas de laurel, right? When you add spices, that these spices That's why I like to add them of the foundation flavors to kind of really draw out Cumin. I have some Mexican cinnamon. Canela. It's called Ceylon. I have some Mexican oregano. As this is cooking, of when I add my meat back. 'Cause you don't want to do it where all these aromatics to break down So I'm happy where I'm going to add the meat back And all those juices that's also going Make sure everything's nice -Stock. You can use beef broth. Even vegetable, And then now, I'm going to dress that's really going to give and really I'm going to take all of And I'm going to puree that. I'm going to add along with the stock, I'm going to give it What you want to do is you want to let this and then we're and then we're gonna put it So I'm gonna go about 375 And then we should So next, that's going to accompany -I have some white onion here. This will start to be of the actual rice. And what I love about this rice It's going to be a perfect foil that comes I'll be using Take some garlic, as well. I like to always, always Don't ever buy I actually like a little bit That kind of releases and allows it to break down So I kind of just combine and then to this, which is from And never remove the seeds That pulp is where In a nice pot, I'm going to add You can use canola, grapeseed, So I'm going to add that's that's been Kind of release those starches, you want to just really allow of the kernels of rice and to be able And the idea here a little golden brown So as that starts to toast, Then I'll put a little bit I'll also add some Some I'm gonna do basically You can cook this, let it cook low and slow, and then just do its thing Or another little technique is you can actually take it up and then cover with a lid The actual pot is being so it allows that rice to cook I would not put it into the oven until it actually Very important. I like to do mine at 375. [ Singsong voice ] Turn this down just a scooch. And that should take about So our chili Colorado's two and a half to three hours. It's beautiful, tender, I'm going to remove and start to assemble Oh, my. Here we go. Look at that. Tell me that to eat right there, my friends. We'll take some broth and sauce, and I'm just going to lay that of this baking dish. Now the reason being to kind of be the base this little burrito casserole, And that's going to So this step is not Be honest. This is more something that you do when you're cooking or for a group setting because in Juarez, you just have and that would be it. So baking it here is sort of my own It's something I like to do I was brought up by if it's something that has beef, Because flour tortillas where there's more beef. So we're going to do a nice amount We're going to start So I have a nice I have this rice. Then I'm gonna just let that Then I'm going to kind cover the edges, and then kind of ensure You could take some of this and let it take just the ends and then that goes right And trust me, when you serve you're making lots and lots Okay? It's just so much fun. So delicious. Roll, roll, roll. Now that I've assembled and have them in this casserole, is take a little bit more and give it a little bit more So I have that sauce hitting the bottom part and then also on the top. -Yes, indeed. You got to talk to your food, Get up in there, dude. Check in with it. Now to this, I'm gonna take Use whatever you want, you know? And the idea being is we're and let it just be that accent. So this is more of an American You can use queso blanco but this is kind of my nod here in this country. I want to give a little love to my American brethren. So now this is going for about 15 minutes and kind of and then we're ready to serve. Now we're going to remove it and get down to business. Man! Gonna add a little bit I'm gonna just put it like that. Almost like little scales. -And then to this, Just a nice little rough chop. And this is, like, that just take it to Just to finish, Now this is kind of like that -- because it has a good sharpness And there you go. Here's a beautiful chili I finished it with cilantro, and radish, when I get to taste the fruits Mmm! Mmm! Mmm! I should do this for a living. That's absolutely delicious. That beef has -- All of those chiles are They're not competing And I love the little salty on top, some freshness with It's just hitting and it's just a bite And this recipe right here, Tio's Famous Chili Colorado is in my new book, my memoir, &quot;Where I Come From: Life Lessons Also, if you want to find out click the link below.