I'm always surprised... I picked up somebody hitchhiking the other day... And she said 'It's my birthday', and I think she was 25 or something. And I said, 'Well, how old do you think I am?' Because I think I'm very young. I think I look young, I think I feel young, I think I act young, I think I am young. She said 75. I could have thrown her out of the car. And the other thing is... I was in San Francisco five years ago and a woman got up from her seat in the bus to offer it to me. San Francisco was a much nicer place when I was younger. How do I feel about age? I don't know. It has its downs man. But, I believe it was David Bowie who said, 'When you're older you become the person you were supposed to be.' I guess the ultimate question is, would I exchange my knowledge for my body? No, no, no, no. I'm happy... I'm getting there. I used to say that there are only two things that existed in life and that was love and fear. But very recently I've come to acknowledge that pain is also there. I've felt pain all my life. I have been motivated... the driving force of my life has been pain. You feel enough pain, you're going to want to change. I didn't realise anything was wrong. I mean I was sticking needles in my arm... and I didn't realise anything was wrong. There was something wrong. I have been running all my life. One of the reasons I think I was running so much is because I didn't learn love and I didn't learn trust. Because that wasn't to be seen. And if you don't have that, you're constantly looking for something. And if you add a good healthy dose of drugs in there as well, then you have a prime breeding ground for distraction. And distraction keeps your mind off what hurts. So you just keep on going. And then it doesn't help at all when your caregiver tells you you're defective and tells everyone else you're defective as well. When in reality, we're all born good people you know. We haven't done anything wrong. And unfortunately I think that self doubt and accusing yourself is very common because you think what's wrong with me? Why couldn't that person love me? And guilt is terrible. And it's even worse when you feel guilty about something that you didn't know that you were doing something wrong. Your mind goes through incredible gymnastics to be able to justify your own lack of self worth. And going through life like that is very painful. I went through life choosing the hardest route because in my mind it was preparing myself for the road ahead, which is difficult, because for me life is difficult. I went down this highway of speed bumps going as fast as I could, so I could learn how to land and survive the landing. Instead of realising that those speed bumps are there to slow you down. That's the biggest lesson that I am learning and that I am exercising, is when my mind is racing and when my heart is racing and when my head is not in a good space and I have problems... just stop. I stop and I say, 'Is it relevant?' Relevant to my happiness? Relevant to my wellbeing? Relevant to my peace? Is it relevant to what I'm doing? And often it's not. So just stop, be mindful. And peace will come. And that's something which I've never known. Anais Nin said that 'New Year's resolutions don't mean anything to me' 'because self scrutiny and self development is such a daily occurrence' 'that it would be redundant to do one on New Year's Eve.' And that's the way I feel. Every day is an opportunity to look at yourself and to notice things. The biggest thing that I'm working on right now is something that until six months ago wasn't even in my vocabulary, I didn't know how to spell it, and what was humility. And I sorely need it. Because I've been living a lie. Because I've been pretentious. Because I've been putting ribbons on my hat that sometimes I didn't deserve. Sometimes I probably shouldn't have been wearing the hat at all. Because I'd been hiding behind it. Probably more than most people... because my core was missing. And my core was missing because I... because my foundation was missing. So it's very important for me to get my core, be it ever so humble. People who know my life could see it as being very difficult. I think it's wonderful. I think it's so beautiful to be free. At the top of the koppies (hills) I say three times, 'Asante Sana Wakan Tanka'. 'Asante Sana' is thank you. And 'Wakan Tanka' is the great spirit. The great spirit, which is everything... everything in the natural world. (And why do you say thank you to the great spirit?) Because there is so much to be thankful for. Excuse me. It's just so perfect you know. My question is how can it not be beautiful? You ask me how can it be beautiful with so much pain? How can it not be beautiful with so much beauty? That's why I give thanks.