Did you know that the foods you include on your plate every day can be the key to having more energy, a more agile mind and reducing the risk of serious illnesses? Today I want to tell you 10 foods that cannot be missing from your plate. These foods are not just food, they are true natural remedies. And stay until the end of the video because I am going to reveal to you a food that is little talked about that may be harming your health, it may be your true silent enemy. Do you dare to discover which one it is? Leave it to me in comments. But let's start by talking about the 10 foods that I don't want to be missing in your daily life. The first food I want to talk to you about is unfiltered apple cider vinegar. This product contains a gelatinous substance called the mother. This mother is produced in the vinegar fermentation process and mainly contains bacteria that will repopulate our intestinal microbiota. In other words, it behaves like a probiotic food. In addition to this, vinegar serves to maintain the acidity of the stomach. Our stomach has to be acidic, it has to have a low pH to kill bad bacteria and for the digestion and absorption of food. In other words, if you are a person who feels very full after eating, who has slow digestion, vinegar is going to be an excellent ally for you. And there are two main ways to consume it. The first is that you add it to your main meals, for example salads. And the second way to consume it is a teaspoon of unfiltered apple cider vinegar in a glass of water. You are going to take it with a straw or a bulb to avoid damage to your tooth enamel, but never consume it pure. This can burn your mouth and even your esophagus. The second food I want to talk to you about is the sweet potato. I want you to tell me what they call it in your country. This food contains fiber, vitamin C and carotene. Carotene is ideal for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, cancer and other conditions. And do you know what is the best way to consume it? You are going to cook it and let it cool in the refrigerator for at least one night. In this way, resistant starch will be produced. This starch serves as prebiotic fiber, that is, it will serve as food for your good bacteria and in addition, it will prevent the sugar from the sweet potato itself from being absorbed as quickly, which is ideal for patients with type 2 diabetes, for example. example. You can do the same with other types of starches, with rice or potatoes, for example. It is very important that you always consume both potatoes and sweet potatoes in their skins, because that is where all their nutrients are concentrated. I'm going to tell you a recipe that my brother Nicolas once made for me and I was fascinated. You are going to cut the sweet potato or sweet potato into thin slices, about the width of your finger and you are going to place them in the air fryer. This will leave a very crunchy food on the outside and the inside will be very soft and tasty. You can consume these sweet potato chips at any time of the day and especially if you are craving something sweet. The third food I want to talk to you about and perhaps it should be first in the top 10 are eggs. Each egg has between 6 to 7 grams of protein. In addition to that, it contains a very important amino acid for muscle formation, which is leucine. Stopping muscle deterioration is crucial to being independent and living a long life. Having muscles will not only serve you for aesthetics, it will help you get up from a chair, so that you can do your shopping alone, so that you can be independent. Of course, to have muscle we need to do strength exercises but also add protein to our meals and eggs are an excellent protein. Why am I making this clarification? Because generally people in order to lose weight eat only salad and the truth is that salad is an excellent food but it does not contain protein. When you lose weight you will lose fat, of course, but you will also lose muscle and you may become a sarcopenic person. We know that sarcopenia is a silent disease that few people talk about. Have little muscle It can increase your risk of premature death and a host of injuries and health complications. Is it necessary to remove the yolk from the egg? No, this would be a serious mistake. Before we believed that egg yolk increased cholesterol and the risk of having a lot of health problems. Today, luckily, science has taken it upon itself to investigate this and proves that the consumption of boiled and unfried eggs does not increase the risk of having cardiovascular diseases or increase blood cholesterol. In addition, egg yolk contains vitamin D, which very few foods contain, and it contains a super nutrient called choline that is useful for the health of our brain. The fourth food that may surprise you is beets. Consuming beet juice two hours before training can increase your muscle strength by 10% by improving oxygen uptake by the muscle. In addition, beets can help you prevent anemia because they have a lot of iron and folic acid. Drinking beet juice every day can regenerate your cells. Always remember not to leak it. How are you going to prepare beet juice? You are going to place a beet with a piece of ginger and a glass of water. You mix it well and you are not going to filter it. There they are ready for you to consume. And I leave you an extra tip. Beets are best if you consume them raw as they maintain all their nutrients. You can add it to salads or make a delicious beet hummus. If you want to prepare the hummus I'll give you the recipe quickly. You are going to place a cup of chickpeas, a piece of garlic, a splash of olive oil, seasonings and a beet. You are going to mix everything and your hummus is ready to consume. Now we can talk about the fifth food that could not be missing from this list and it is olive oil. Olive oil contains nutrients and good fats that our body cannot produce. Always look at the olive oil label, they don't want to sell you mixtures because many times in the desire to make a more economical product they mix olive oil with other oils such as canola or sunflower oil that can worsen your health and make olive oil a pro-inflammatory food. Then make sure that your olive oil contains only olive oil and that it is labeled first cold pressed. Remember that olive oil cannot be heated to high temperatures because it oxidizes very quickly. Ideally, you should consume it as a condiment in your salads, for example, or in your hummus or in your sauces. Here I would like to make a small section and add the avocado. Avocado contains a lot of good fat, a lot of potassium, it has more potassium than even a banana, zinc, vitamin C and many other nutrients. You can make yourself mayonnaise, sauces and here I would like to add to guacamole. Guacamole is an excellent dip. I want my Mexican friends who are listening to tell me their recipe because we are fans of guacamole. We prepare a mashed avocado with onion, garlic and seasonings but I want my Mexican friends to tell me their recipe. I would also like to add fatty fish such as mackerel, sardines or of course salmon, which contain a lot of omega 3. We know that omega 3 is anti-inflammatory, helps the health of our arteries, our heart and prevents many diseases. It is also very important for the health of our brain which can help delay cognitive decline. The sixth food is legumes, peas, lentils, beans. They contain a lot of fiber, proteins, and have a low glycemic index. What does this mean? Patients with type 2 diabetes or insulin resistance can consume them and they also have a lot of iron. But be careful here, legumes have an iron called noem that is very difficult to absorb. So yes or yes we have to add a factor that facilitates the absorption of that iron and do you know what it is? Vitamin C. So when you eat legumes, remember Nutricamila, telling you to add a splash of lemon on top or you can also choose to have a glass with a splash of lemon. If you don't prefer any of these, you can have a tangerine for dessert, a grapefruit or an orange so that all the iron in that legume is absorbed. This is a food that I really like because it is also very versatile, you can consume legumes in hamburgers, in hummus, in breads, in casseroles or in any way you prefer. The seventh food that cannot be missing from your plate is dark green leafy vegetables . These contain a lot of fiber, vitamins and especially chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is the new green oxygen, it helps oxygenate cells, increase your immune system and will also give you much more radiant skin. You can add green vegetables to green juices, which we have a great video on, or you can eat them with salads. And here I leave you another secret, the order of meals does matter. When you make a good salad, remember to consume the salads first, then the proteins and finally the carbohydrates. This will make your intestine prepare for the arrival of each food and slowly absorb them. This is also a very good strategy for patients with type 2 diabetes because it will prevent so many glycemic spikes from being generated in your blood. The eighth food that may surprise you is red onion. Did you know that this food contains a compound called quercetin, which is a flavonoid with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties? The only detail to keep in mind is that quercetin is lost if we heat it too much, so we recommend consuming red onion or purple onion in salads for example or adding it at the end of cooking, which is exactly the opposite of what we do or I do. For example, what I did before is place the onion first and then the rest of the food. Now you are going to do the opposite, add the onion last or eat them in salads. And what about white onion? It is also a superfood but you have to know that it has less quercetin. You will realize if the onion has a lot of quercetin or not because it is what gives it the purple pigment, so when you go to the supermarket or the greengrocer choose the one with the most color, that is the one that will contain the most quercetin. The ninth food that I added because it couldn't be missing are condiments. Remember that condiments are not just to give aroma or flavor to foods, condiments are true natural remedies. Incorporate oregano, bay leaves, turmeric into your meals, rosemary every day, for example today when I told you to make some sweet potato chips, add rosemary on top, you will give it a lot of flavor but above all antioxidant substances for your body. And the tenth food is water, never lack water, do not wait until you are thirsty to drink it, get up and drink one or two glasses and as the day goes by, consume more water. The general recommendation is 30 milliliters of water per kilogram of weight, for example if you weigh 60 kilos you are going to do 60 times 30 and it will give you more or less one 800 liter of water, that is your requirement. If you find it difficult to drink, add a splash of lemon, add rosemary, add cinnamon or whatever you prefer, but drink the amount of water your body needs. And now I do want us to talk about the last food but that you should not include in your plate, many times we tell you to try to avoid sugars, refined flours, ultra-processed foods but we rarely talk about red meats, especially processed ones that are associated with colorectal cancer but also with pancreatic and prostate cancer, in addition the high saturated fat content of this type of meat can contribute to the development of heart diseases, a diet rich in saturated fats is linked to increased cholesterol in blood, the hardening of the arteries favoring hypertension, heart attacks and strokes, the ideal is that you do not stop eating meat but you do reduce its consumption, the ideal is that you do not eat red meat more than twice a week . I leave you some ideas to vary your diet, one day you can make some eggplant schnitzels, other days you can make some legume burgers, another day you can make some bean casseroles, a chard souffle, you can make broccoli or zucchini pies, another day you can make chicken, fish and thus vary your diet without overindulging in red meat. I hope this video has helped you, if it helped you let me know in the comments. I send you a big greeting from our corner of the world.