Take a look at the largest volcanic lake in China, Changbai Mountain Tianchi. It is located on the top of Changbai Mountain, the boundary mountain between China and North Korea. Changbai Mountain is also the highest peak on the Korean Peninsula. Both North and South Korea regard it as a sacred mountain and the birthplace of their nation . It stands on all peaks. The crater at the top of the active volcano Changbai Mountain (known as &quot;Baekdu Mountain&quot; in North Korea and South Korea) has now formed a lake. This is the largest eruption in history. As a result, Changbai Mountain is hailed by North Korea as the &quot;Holy Mountain of Revolution&quot; and is closely related to the history of the revolution led by Kim Jong Il . I first learned about Changbai Mountain many years ago when I saw a report that the North Korean president visited Changbai Mountain in winter . North Korean soldiers come to this sacred mountain to worship every year. It is said that in order to avoid satellite surveillance, North Korea dug extremely deep caves under Changbai Mountain and built North Korea's most important military base. At the same time , Tianchi on the top of Changbai Mountain is the largest volcanic lake in China. It is also the deepest lake in China. The water surface is 2,194 meters above sea level. The average water depth is 204 meters and the maximum depth is 373 meters. After leaving Changbai County, the border county between China and North Korea in the previous episode, I took a ride to Changbai County, 200 kilometers away. Erdaobaihe Town is the base camp for climbing to the top of Changbai Mountain from the north slope. Let's start this trip to Changbai Mountain with Ashu. Changbai Mountain Beipo Ticket Hall &quot;Ashu Enters the Northeast&quot; is the first season of Northeastern documentary that I am currently creating. I will visit the border cities and counties Heilongjiang , Inner Mongolia and other provinces from the south to the north , as well as North Korea, Russia, and Mongolia . and other distinctive places worth visiting in the countryside and the Northeast. This episode is the EP5 of &quot;A Shu's Journey into the Northeast.&quot; The video gets more exciting as you go. Welcome to join A Shu. The tour departs now at 13:14 and it takes about 50 minutes to get to the transfer center. The payment just now for the Changbai Mountain North Scenic Area is 305 yuan (about 43 US dollars), including the full price ticket of 105 yuan for the bus ticket and 85 yuan for the Chibei Tour Line ticket. The round trip to the North Scenic Area is 35 yuan. The ticket to the main peak of Tianchi is 80 yuan (the bus fare now is 80 yuan). I need to arrive at Tianchi Transfer Center at 2:03 pm. Take another bus to the foot of Tianchi Mountain. If you take this bus, you will arrive at Tianchi Bus Entrance in 15 minutes. Siberian tiger, this Northeastern cotton jacket has its characteristics. I hope it will give me good weather later, because Tianchi is shrouded in clouds and fog all year round. You are very lucky to be able to see Tianchi clearly. From the bus entrance to the main peak of Changbai Mountain (Tianchi), you can take a business 7-seater car to the foot of Tianchi and then hike up. Tianchi Main Peak happily sat in the passenger seat so that I could take a first-person view of entering the mountain. This is a 10-seater van (the ticket for Tianchi Main Peak in the North Scenic Area is 80 yuan). The whole journey takes about 16 minutes and is 10.2 kilometers. 10.2 kilometers and 72 big turns (not counting small turns). It took 16 minutes. Seventy-two turns and 10.2 kilometers. Wow, look at the tiny curves on that winding mountain road. The little dots are all these little vans. I have been working here for six years. I have been working here for six years. For six years, I have been driving back and forth across the mountains. Every people and drive around you. Hahaha, we have seen our winding mountains. I have seen them in the past few years. Friends who gather together will know that I took a bus from Changchun, Jilin to Changbai County, the only Korean autonomous county in China . At that time, the bus passed through the Changbai Mountains from northwest to southeast. That was the first time I discovered the beauty of Changbai Mountains. Dark green, orange, and purple trees cover the hillside, which is truly colorful like a painter's colorful work. Later, I gradually learned that the altitude of 1,700 to 2,100 meters in the Changbai Mountains is the alpine birch forest belt (the forest is distributed vertically). The upper limit) above 2,100 meters above sea level is what we see in front of us The alpine tundra zone is the uppermost vegetation distribution zone of Changbai Mountain. There is something extraordinary about the Yuehua Forest. We will talk about it later . As we approach the top, we see snow. The altitude here is about 2,600 meters. It is the highest mountain peak in Northeast China (also North Korea). The highest peak on the peninsula) Wow, the air above has suddenly become a lot colder. I can feel the air here is a little colder. It's a little thin, so I'm a little bit hypoxic when walking, but it's not serious. Changbai Mountain Tianchi is a natural wonder nurtured by water and fire. Over thousands of years, many volcanic eruptions have created a huge crater on the top of Changbai Mountain. Rain, ice and snow, underground springs, are constantly collecting water in the crater. The lake forms Changbai Mountain Tianchi , which is like a huge jasper inlaid on the top of the mountain. Among the peaks, Changbai Mountain Tianchi is the largest crater lake in China. It is the boundary lake between China and North Korea. It is also the source of the Songhua River, Yalu River (the boundary river between China and North Korea) , and the Tumen River (the boundary river between China and North Korea). I'm a little out of breath. Changbai Mountain is surrounded by sixteen peaks. The highest of these sixteen peaks is Baitou Peak (the highest peak in Northeast China). The altitude of Tianchi Lake in Changbai Mountain is 2,749 meters. It is 2,189 meters above sea level. It is 600 meters higher than Mount Tai. Look at the shape of Tianchi. What I see is the shape of a flying bird. What shape do you see? There are many cold-proof clothes for rent on the mountain in the distance. Forest The sea has all turned yellow. You see across the way is a military-controlled area. This is a place that is off-limits to tourists because this is the border between China and North Korea. The shapes of these mountains are very strange because they are not naturally formed mountains. They are the lava of the volcano after the volcano erupted. and volcanic ash cooling Later, after years of weathering, erosion , and cutting by running water, a mountain like this was formed. Now we take Line B to go up the mountain. It is divided into Line A and Line B. Look at those stones. These are the cooled lava left after the volcanic eruption . This stone has energy The holes are black. If you look closely, they are different from the stones in other mountains. Look at the stone on this step. It is made from local materials and cut from the volcanic lava here. It has pores . Take a look at the largest volcanic lake in the country The water in this lake is very clear and green. It feels quite amazing . There is a bare hill. Suddenly there is a lake that is so green and quiet. It feels like it is no wonder it is green emerald. From this angle, Tianchi is also It 's quite heart- shaped, even if you don't take aerial photography (aerial photography is prohibited) We all feel that it is very beautiful. The sunshine is really good at this time . We are all very lucky because it is rare to see such soft sunlight shining on the lake. Look at the rocks here, haha, they look a bit like that. The coral reef in the sea feels like a heart-shaped emerald. It's so beautiful. I like this I can't move my camera away from this picture in front of me. We know that Changbai Mountain is a dormant volcano. Tianchi is located on the top of the volcano. About millions of years ago, Changbai Mountain had many large-scale volcanic eruptions. These volcanic eruptions spewed large amounts of magma and ash. Part of the surface that emerged from the top of the volcano collapsed or collapsed, forming a After the volcanic activity, the crater gradually cooled down. After long-term weathering and erosion, the crater gradually accumulated water. The water source of Tianchi is mainly precipitation, snowmelt water and groundwater. Due to the high altitude and closed state of the crater, the accumulated water cannot be drained quickly, so it was formed. A closed alpine lake can only be seen below Let's try to walk up a small part of the celestial body . Not only North Korea regards Changbai Mountain as a sacred mountain and the birthplace of the nation , the northern peoples of China also regard it as a sacred mountain. It was the Jin Jurchen who first named it &quot;Changbai Mountain&quot;. The emperor of the Jin Dynasty at that time granted it Changbai Mountain was the &quot;Kaitian Hongsheng Emperor&quot; and built temples and determined the sacrificial rituals . When the Kangxi Emperor of the Qing Dynasty came to power , he claimed that the ancestor of the Qing Dynasty was conceived by a fairy from the Changbai Mountain . He regarded it as the birthplace of the Manchu Qing Dynasty and named him the &quot;God of the Changbai Mountain.&quot; Then Kangxi sent troops and North Korean officials to patrol and erect a boundary monument in the watershed area at the southern foot of the Changbai Mountain . That is to say, Changbai Mountain and Tianchi were restored to the Qing Dynasty as a whole at that time. Later, when the Qing Dynasty's national power weakened , Japan occupied North Korea and pushed immigrants to the side of Changbai Mountain to actually control Changbai Mountain. Today's border between China and North Korea in Changbai Mountain can be traced back to the 1962 &quot;China-North Korea Boundary Treaty&quot;, which determined Changbai Mountain's Tianchi as the boundary lake. The current situation of which about 54.5% The waters belong to North Korea. 45.5% of the waters belong to China. Look, this is the boundary lake between China and North Korea . On the other side, over the cliff, is North Korea. I told you that you can see water monsters. Son, when you come to Tianchi, there are three in the country. One of the viewing angles is the North Scenic Area , which is where I am now. Opposite is the West Scenic Area. Then there is the South Scenic Area. The South Scenic Area is only open in summer. If it is open now, only the West Scenic Area and the North Scenic Area (the East Area is in North Korea). The West Scenic Area and the North Scenic Area have independent tickets. The opposite side is North Korea. I have seen videos. It was the chairman of North Korea who boarded the opposite mountain in winter. On the mountain and overlooking Tianchi, you can see different Tianchi from different angles . Tianchi can be said to be suitable for all ages because the van takes tourists to the flat ground almost at the top of the mountain. It only takes 5 minutes for tourists to climb to the top of the mountain, so you can see some elderly people. He can also come and enjoy this great river and mountain with an altitude of 2,660 meters. I went to Tianwen Peak and my career was successful. I climbed to Tianwen Peak. I was a little nervous because I was afraid of heights. I was a little nervous when I saw the staff. How could he still get in? Turn around and walk around Tianchi. It was about 200 meters and then we left. After that, you can see the Tianchi area, and then you can go down to Tianchi. Although its water is The surface area is not very large, but its water reserves are very amazing. And its water depth is also very deep. How deep is the lake? It is the deepest lake in China. The average water depth is 204 meters. The deepest point even reaches 373 meters, which can submerge Hong Kong. Why is the Central Plaza of Sangao so deep? Tianchi is made of The crater lake formed after the volcanic eruption. After the volcanic eruption, the top of the volcano collapsed to form a huge crater. This type of lake usually has a great depth. At the same time, the steep terrain at the bottom of Tianchi Lake increases its water depth. In addition, Changbai Mountain is only more than 100 kilometers away from the Sea of Japan . The persistent water vapor from the sea gives this area It brings an average of more than 1,000 millimeters of precipitation every year. The huge depth and water volume of the lake allow it to hold 2 billion square meters of water, which is equivalent to the water volume of 800,000 Olympic swimming pools. It can supply the daily water consumption of 6.6 billion people around the world for a day on a scale as large as Tianchi. Crater lakes are relatively rare in the world I think the mounds or the rocks here are all unique. If you look carefully, you will see that there are large black stones inlaid in the mounds . Tourists who have visited Tianchi, please come and visit In the customer area, we took a bus down the mountain to defend the border and made great contributions to Northern Xinjiang . After we came down, we could still see it from another angle. I saw that the Tianchi steps are all Tianchi with air holes . In the summer of 1983, Deng Xiaoping wrote that I saw five or six North Korean tourists on the other side of North Korea, lifting up their trousers and walking to play in the water of Tianchi Lake. This reminded me of some things I had seen. Some of the signboards in North Korea's image scenic spots are in three languages. One English, two Chinese, three Korean. At 3 o'clock, we went down and there were several scenic spots down there. We visited the top of the mountain for about 40 minutes. This is a border area and a military-controlled area, which is quite sensitive (no flying drones). Look at this. That's where I am. Cold-proof clothing rental. Coat 30 yuan. Knee pads 30 yuan. Cotton shoes 30 yuan. The deposit is 170 Yuan Yuyi and 3.0 Yuan. After visiting Tianchi , please stop and get off the car in the tourist service area . It is much warmer here . There are some food supplies, instant noodles, mineral water, and people selling handmade souvenirs . This is a specialty of Tianchi. Carbon Silica costs 100 yuan and takes about 15 minutes to go down the mountain through 72 turns. Small bends are not included. All small bends are free. Yes, there are more than 200 of these cars here. They are all Chase Xingtu V8s. Just now the master said that there are no trees here above 2,000 meters above sea level. But when spring comes, the mountains and fields are full of colorful flowers. We can often see them on the roads here in the morning. Wild boar, black bear, sika deer, red deer (rich in wild animal resources) at an altitude of We started to see some shrubs (Yue Hualin) when we came down from the mountain. The master sent us directly to the place in front of me. This place is Changbai Waterfall. This is Changbai Waterfall. Changbai Waterfall is the largest volcanic lake waterfall in China. It has a drop of 68 Miah, it takes at least 25 minutes to walk to the Changbai Waterfall viewing point , like this one behind me The tree is called Yue Hua Lin. It is a tree that can only be found in the entire Northeast of China. For example, in the Changbai Mountain area and the Xiaoxinganling area (the Greater Khingan Mountains). Its growth cycle is very short . Its leaves fall in September. Its annual growth cycle is only Three months (frost-free period in March 678), this is the river flowing from Changbai Falls There is a giant dragon hot spring in front of the water . This is the hot spring plaza. Because I came late , I ran all the way to visit these attractions. But so I am a little breathless. Hot spring eggs are 10 yuan. 3 eggs, duck eggs, 10 yuan, 2 corns, 10 yuan each, you can live forever if you eat this. Then I ate it and took a look at it. This was the first time I saw frozen pears. I bought three hot spring eggs for 10 yuan each. I came from afar to meet you and make an appointment . I wish you all your wishes will come true in 2024. Wow. It's green like moss. The temperature of the hand bath is 53 degrees Celsius. Try the water temperature. It's really hot. It's the most comfortable temperature for taking a bath. This is the Julong Hot Spring Bar hot spring group . There are dozens of underground hot spring overflow points in the geopark. Among them, Julong Spring is the most representative. Is this the root of the birch tree? The water is steaming . A video I shot in the past may be the largest hot spring waterfall group in the world. The waterfalls falling from the sky actually come from a temperature of 40 degrees Celsius. The spring smells the smell of the volcanic lava, which may be called pungent. The surface of the earth is a bit colorful. I don't know The endless Changbai Waterfall . The world -famous Changbai Waterfall is located in the north of Tianchi Lake in Changbai Mountain. The 1,250-meter-long Chengcha River flows through the Butian Stone. With a flow rate of 1.25-5 square meters per second, it suddenly falls from the Longmen and Tianhuo peaks to form the Changbai Waterfall with a height of about 68 meters. As one of the scenic spots in Changbai Mountain, the Changbai Waterfall also has the greatest feature that it has four seasons throughout the year. The continuous flow of water is a very rare midwinter in this high latitude area with an altitude of more than 2,100 meters. Tianchi Lake is frozen during the season , but the lake water overflows from under the ice and enters the Chengcha River. The riverbed of the Chengcha River has a steep slope, and the terrain is dangerous and the water flow is fast and difficult to freeze . Therefore, the Changbai Waterfall still flows even in the harsh winter. In front of the Changbai Waterfall with a height of 68 meters. The waterfall is the only outlet of Tianchi in Changbai Mountain. Tianchi water flows out from the north slope to form Chengcha River. The driver at the scenic spot told us that the Chengcha River is the shortest river in China. It is called a pocket river and is only 1,250 meters long. We know that Tianchi is a volcanic crater lake. The lake water depends on rainwater and melted ice and snow for replenishment. When the water level rises, it will be released through the Chengcha River . The cliff is the midpoint of the river, forming the Changbai Waterfall, which eventually flows into the Songhua River. Tianchi is not only a waterfall of The source of the Huajiang River is the Tumen River. The source of the Yalu River is the Tumen River. It flows through the borders of China, North Korea and Russia and merges into the Sea of Japan. The Yalu River flows from northeastern China through North Korea and merges into the Yellow Sea. The Changbai Waterfall is the largest volcanic lake waterfall in the country. It is also the only Changbai Lake. So why can it flow continuously all year round? Is the amount of water in Tianchi so amazing? This is because Tianchi has an amazing amount of water storage (as mentioned earlier). As evidenced by the evidence from Changbai Mountain, Changbai Mountain is called &quot;Baekdu Mountain&quot;. After leaving Changbai Waterfall and heading to the next viewing point, there is a lot of scientific knowledge along the way. Kopuya Alpine Forest Wetland The southern foothills with an altitude of 1,700 meters is a forest edge wetland and is a rare sub-alpine mountain in the northern half of Eurasia . Wetlands are dotted with yellow flowers, larch , ligin, sphagnum moss, swamp wetlands. Why do the alpine plants in Changbai Mountain bloom intensively in summer? In June, when all the fragrance is gone at the foot of the mountain, spring has just arrived in Changbai Mountain at high altitude. The Starbucks made of Chitianchi water is where I sat this time . A bus that looks like a bus (this is a round trip ticket for the Chibei Tourist Line: 35 yuan) I just tasted a hot spring egg. The yolk and egg white are very tender. Most of the time, the birch tree basically stops growing because the temperature is too low , so the growth rate of the birch tree is extremely slow. A birch tree that looks short and thin is actually It has been growing on the earth for hundreds or even hundreds of years . Because of this, the wood of the birch tree is as hard as iron . It is much bigger than other trees. This is why birch trees are dense and hard as iron . This little angel is very beautiful. He is not as big as the archangel , but some of the birch trees are reflected on it. This is the first time I have seen the black lake water. The small Tianchi in front of us has a circumference of 260 meters, an area of about 5,380 square meters, and a water depth of more than 10 meters. There is only a water inlet. There is no water outlet , but the water does not dry up all year round. It is amazing that it should be related to the recharge of groundwater. There is a statue of Yaowang Valley . Worship Yaowang devoutly in Yaowang Temple. Look at this huge volcanic stone called Feilaishi. Wow, there are several pieces inlaid in the mountain. There is a birch tree in the birch forest that has grown up to the boulder. The last stop is the black bear. It is only a minute's drive from Xiaotianchi to Luyuantan. It is really tree-based. Even if these two trees fell down, they still made it. They protected me and didn't cut them off. There are three waterfalls. You can often see huge boulders like this here. They are black. So far, I think Green Pool is the most beautiful. It is hidden among the birch trees. And its water is not black, but dark blue. The color of this emerald is so beautiful. The water here is really unique. The saturation is very high. What I like most here is that it combines beauty, beauty and wonder. It is sparkling. It is almost 5 o'clock in the evening . It was getting dark soon , and then the Sandie Falls came from one side The huge boulders flowed down and merged into the Green Source Pool, which is worthy of the name. The water is green enough, and there are some birch trees growing on it. Three waterfalls in the birch forest in the high altitude area of Changbai Mountain suddenly fall from the 26-meter-high giant rock. think It's very strange. It's the first time I've seen such a fish. If Datianchi is a majestic and desolate beauty, then Green Abyss Lake is its other side, which is as beautiful as Xiaojiabiyu. Today's journey is quite compact. Haha. That is us As an ordinary tourist, I can gain experience when I come to Changbai Mountain Tianchi . I don't know how you feel. If you like this video, remember to like and subscribe to my channel. Thank you for watching. I am Ashu. See you next time. Thank you. Watch the accompanying video of the next episode. Ashu will come to Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, the only Korean Autonomous Prefecture in China, to taste the authentic Korean food here and visit Yanji City , a unique and beautiful border town. Please stay tuned.