Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. Today I turn community, as we travel the world to visit of the woods. In this tour we move into America's Jim Varney, Rosemary Clooney, Regis Philbin, time is yours. has brought us to the American Midwest. Today Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin. We've We'll begin today in Kentucky. This is Lexington have fond memories growing up and laughing The comedic actor is best remembered for his in the 1980s for a series of humorous TV commercials, Vern in his misadventures. The popularity Vern, It's Ernest! a winning act for this talent show. I'm That's right, Vern, Ernest P. Worrell, thespian A successful film franchise would follow, Saves Christmas, and Ernest Goes to Camp. for his voice work, including some notable The Lost Empire, and Slinky Dog in the Toy chain smoker, he was diagnosed with lung cancer, you meant, Jim, and we miss you. Here we find the grave of one of Louisville's nicknamed "The Louisville Plumber," due Root to become the World Heavyweight Champion. wins, and 7 losses. He died the day after high blood pressure. sporting legend, this one in the game of baseball. stop for the Brooklyn, later LA Dodgers, from to seven National League championships, and in 1984. Reese was also a strong supporter first black man, to play in the major leagues. Next up is St. Patrick's Cemetery in Maysville. native, Rosemary Clooney. As a singer she's "Mambo Italiano," and "Come On-a My to the screen, perhaps most notably, alongside White Christmas. In 2001 Rosemary was diagnosed right up until the end, passing away at age Clooney. stars to find here. We begin at Lake View here in Ohio for famous occupants. Among them, known as the wealthiest American of all time, In 1870 he founded Standard Oil. His wealth gasoline rose in America. At its peak, Standard By 1911, it was deemed too big for federal entities, including ExxonMobil, and Chevron. supporting medicine, education, and science. age 97. likely seen this monument before, an icon Angel of Death Victorious, by sculptor Herman family. The Haserots were in the business coffee and pineapple, but today they are more they did in life. to Eliot Ness. He was a federal law officer was tasked with bringing down gangster, Al time was endemic, so Ness set out to handpick or corrupted. The men would become known as Capone was eventually convicted and jailed. The Untouchables, which would serve as source same name. Ness was portrayed by Robert Stack a heart attack at just 54. Years later his at Lake View, this marker placed here nearby Nearby is a grave you can't miss, because it like weeds. This is the grave of Harvey He was an underground comic book writer, best Splendor. The series would inspire a film grow appreciation for the graphic novel in overdose of antidepressants, after a cancer Let's find another of the more distinctive of Alan Freed. His epitaph best describes Cleveland when Ohio native and radio disc He championed the uptempo, rhythm-and-blues both sides of the racial divide. Freed ushered of segregation and provided a joyful soundtrack television shows, the music's popularity called "The Father of Rock and Roll." a 50s jukebox, through which youth of that Freed died from uremia and cirrhosis brought The grandest of graves here at Lake View is James Garfield. He served nine terms in the 20th President of the United States in 1881. Garfield was the second president to be assassinated, in a train station in Washington on July 2, and Garfield likely would have survived, but of sterilization to prevent infections in with unsterilized fingers and instruments, died 79 days later, at the age of 49. His in history to "what ifs" due to its brevity. Chapman. He was a professional baseball player, for the Cleveland Indians. He holds the unfortunate from an injury sustained during a major league by a pitch, and died 12 hours later at just in the league, including umpires changing wearing of batting helmets. Here lies another baseball legend, Bob Feller. 20th century. He played 18 seasons in the in 1936 to 1956. During that era, he would Indians win a World Series title in 1948. Feller would become the first professional After retiring from baseball Feller was inducted lived to be 92. find an Olympian, here at Mayfield Cemetery. weightlifter. He realized a dream after being 1972 Olympics in Munich. But on the morning broke into the Olympic Village and took Berger back and were shot and killed. The remaining helicopter to an airbase outside of Munich, to free the hostages, a gunfight ensued, and detonated a grenade in the helicopter in which 28. The events would inspire the Steven Spielberg Here's another St. Patrick's Cemetery, grave of Benjamin Orr. He was a musician, he played bass and sang. The band found considerable hits are the songs "Drive," and "Just but Orr would continue to perform until his posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll In the early 2000s, a group of Jackasses thrilled and antics on the MTV show, Jackass. One of who rests here at Brecksville Cemetery. As by friends and fans as a go-to for some of his grave here don't just reflect his love most famous Jackass stunt. most about shooting in the film? Like, what before you did it?" "That's not part of you. That's something The show would make its way from the small Ryan lived fast, and tragically died young. a night of drinking, and lost control, veering his passenger were killed. He was 34. where we find Patty Donahue. She was a singer, wave group, The Waitresses. Their hits include Boys Like." Patty was a heavy smoker, and We're in Calvary Cemetery now in Cleveland, He was an accordion player and polka musician, number of chart-topping hits beginning in his album 70 Years of Hits -- the first winner heart failure at age 83. He is not related At the release of this video, we are, hopefully, Students of history know that most generations pestilence and disease. One of the more devastating 1918 influenza pandemic. Here at Calvary is At its peak the disease had infected nearly million people, and led to the deaths of an it one of the deadliest pandemics in human went through, but advances in science and will hopefully keep the numbers of those lost Our next cemetery is Evergreen in Bedford Big Maybelle. She was an R&amp;B singer who rose hits was the song "Candy," referenced with a Grammy Hall of Fame Award. Maybelle her adult life, and died of a diabetic coma This is Standing Rock Cemetery in Kent, Ohio. is Bob Casale, sometimes known as Bob 2. He's and guitarist for the 80s group, Devo. The 1980 in the song "Whip It." Bob Casale cremated, his ashes placed in a custom 3D which was then placed in this niche. we find the grave of Frank Seiberling. He the Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Company in 1898. who pioneered the vulcanized rubber used to in developing Akron from a small town into lived to be 95. lies Pat Bilon, sometimes known as Little dwarf actor to play the role of E.T. in the Spielberg called Pat "E.T.'s biggest helper." He died at just 35 from a blood infection. make our way into the mausoleum. Here we find Boiardi. He was born in Italy, and by his 1914 he immigrated to New York where he continued would become much in demand, especially his with canning and selling food products through correctly pronounce his name, he Anglicized was born, nourishing kids like me with products also produce rations for Allied troops during Boiardi lived to be 87. Here lies William Harbeck. He was an early the aftermath of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. known for his skills with outdoor locations. to sail back home to America. His unfortunate reportedly filmed the Titanic before boarding survived. Harbeck died when the Titanic sank. identified by his membership card in the Moving This gateway takes us into the magnificent those we'll find in these historic grounds was known as the Ace of Aces, having racked successful fighting ace of the war. After among many other citations for valor. He was And later in life he headed Eastern Air Lines, Eddie Rickenbacker died from pneumonia while was portrayed by Fred MacMurray in the film Our next Green Lawn stop takes us to the grave humorists of his time, his comics celebrating people. From the 30s into the 50s, Thurber New Yorker. Perhaps his most famous work is has been adapted on film. Thurber died from is a monument to the Thurber's cantankerous This beautiful view here belongs to Grant Broadway, before making supporting appearances 40s, including Arsenic and Old Lace, Mr. Smith Dinner. Grant lived to be 82. Earle. She didn't break into acting until Old Lady from Pasadena," in a series of shows like Green Acres, and perhaps most notably, Waltons. Merie lived to be 95. Here in this hotel for the dead is the crypt of the 20th century. He ran away from home his skills as a magician. He would become skills with card tricks. Thurston was also At the height of his career, Thurston's most popular of its kind. He died from pneumonia We find ourselves now at Union Cemetery here one of the most outstanding football players skills as a runner brought Ohio State University's rallied around Harley so much, he inspired Stadium in 1920, still known today as "The embarking on a professional career in the from various football injuries and his time Veteran's hospital in Illinois, where he died of pneumonia at age 79. Hollywood Graveyard... Hershey's, Reese's, We're in the mausoleum here at Union, to and entrepreneur, who in 1969 founded Wendy's to become the world's 3rd largest hamburger daughter. Dave Thomas became a familiar face of Wendy's commercials from 1989 until his Our travels take us now to Rose Hill Memorial He was a football coach and executive in the was formed in Cleveland, named the Cleveland team's first coach. Later Brown played a in 1967. Their stadium is named after Paul at age 82. and the grave of another Ohio sports star, who played 11 seasons with the New York Yankees. Golden Glove Award in three consecutive years. in 77 and 78. Munson was also something of and landings at an Ohio airport, he crashed severed his spine, rendering him unable to He died from asphyxiation, at the age of 32. where we find the grave of Benjamin Hanby. who is famous for a number of popular 19th anti-slavery ballad, "Darling Nelly Gray," Christmas song, "Up on the Housetop." You know you're in Ohio with a grave like grave of Howard Cassady, known as Hopalong Hopalong Cassidy. He was a football player, professionally for 8 seasons with the Detroit Game. He also played with the Browns, and We're now in Springfield, and Ferncliff Kentucky Mountain Boy," Bradley Kincaid. most popular country music performers on American hymns, and old-time songs, like "On Top the Grand Ole Opry, and in 1971 was inducted At the age of 93, Kincaid was involved in which he never recovered. He died at age 94. He was a boxer who fought professionally in Championship in 1959, and defended the title in a match against Sugar Ramos. Moore received during the fight. By the time he reached the a coma from which he never recovered. He died 29. Bob Dylan wrote a song about his death, David's Cemetery in Kettering is our next They hold the Guinness World Record as the Donnie were born joined at the torso. In order on the road as a sideshow attraction. In 1991 out a fairly normal life, though they would television, including in a Discovery Channel at age 68. As an actor he was well known on the Broadway winning a Drama Desk Award for Sticks and narrator in Into the Woods. He also had memorable and perhaps most notably, as Hugh DeAngelis age 83. we find the grave of Kathleen O'Connor. with some 29 credits between 1918 and 1924. become one of Western cinema's leading ladies, Gentleman. She can also be seen in action from the film world after her husband shot at a dinner party. She lived to be 62. in Dayton. We found a few notables here in and the Wright Bros, but there's always Erma was an author and humorist, remembered describing suburban home life from the 60s these columns. She would go on to write a is Always Greener Over the Septic Tank. And sitcom called Maggie. Erma fought kidney disease breast cancer and a mastectomy. She received complications, at the age of 69. There are here, including this rock, which was shipped Oak Hill Cemetery is in Glendale, Ohio. Here lore, Peg Entwistle. She was a British actress, a number of Broadway productions. A young to be an actress like her. Among her more Tommy. By the early 30s Peg was in Hollywood, her only film appearance, in Thirteen Women. and work was scarce. Peg fell into a depression. and a purse below the Hollywoodland Sign. afraid, I am a coward. I am sorry for everything. have saved a lot of pain. P.E." These were a body in a ravine below the Hollywoodland ladder on the H days earlier, and jumped to that eluded her in life, would find her in in tragic Hollywood lore. Peg's story was Hollywood. here by the magnificent portal into Crown is the love of cemeteries, which I would venture Taphophobia? That's the fear of being buried not, for Albert Fearnaught has the answer. buried alive, safety coffins were devised, to the hand of the buried, that would ring Fearnaught applied for a patent for a similar to the arm of the entombed, that if moved, raise a flag on the surface, and open an air at Mr. Fearnaught's grave, so we can assume Let's make our way over to the crypts, to one of the earliest to embrace the new style Gillespie and Count Basie. He was also a composer, shows like The Six Million Dollar Man, and his own life by shooting himself. He was 77. Hill. Let's head inside. Here is the crypt who performed frequently on Broadway. His as a ghost voice, which isn't as spooky voice for lead actors who weren't the best in My Fair Lady. But Bill would have his time in I Dream of Jeanie, and perhaps most notably, and voice of Prince Phillip. Bill died from One of the grander monuments here, the crown James Whitcomb Riley. He's known particularly works are "The Raggedy Man," which is and "Little Orphan Annie," which served same name, and later a Broadway musical, and celebrity, touring the country reciting his 66, children began donating coins to pay for here at his grave, and the coins left here This is grave of Robert Irsay. If you're on his stone. Robert was a businessman who, the Baltimore Colts. And in 1984 he moved play today. Robert developed various health and passed away at age 73 just over a year There's also a president here at Crown Hill. President of the United States, serving from despite losing the popular vote. His presidency which led to his growing unpopularity. But funding for education, and voting rights enforcement were not successful. Harrison also expanded the White House for the first time, and had South Dakota, Montana, Washington, Idaho, by the man he had beaten four years earlier, pneumonia at age 67. lore, then you know the name John Dillinger. an outlaw hero to disillusioned citizens in Dillinger Gang, which was accused of robbing several times, but managed to escape. He was refuge in a Chicago brothel. The owner, Anna The Bureau of Investigation moved to arrest Theater, after watching Manhattan Melodrama. they shot and killed him. Dillinger was 31. display, viewed by thousands, and a number at Crown Hill has been replaced several times, of his stone for souvenirs, as you can see Our next Indiana stop is Cicero Cemetery. He was one of the early tragic faces of the which required him to get blood treatments. blood treatment in 1984. AIDS was poorly understood was not contagious, he faced a strong backlash a strong advocate for AIDS research and awareness, He died at just 18. Shortly after his death The Ryan White Care Act. Ryan's story would who dedicated his song "Gone to Soon" The Ryan White Story, in which Ryan himself This is the grave of Tommy Thevenow at Springdale Major League Baseball Player from 1924 to Pirates, Reds, and Bees. He played shortstop, in 1926. Thevenow died from a cerebral hemorrhage Abundant Life Cemetery is in New Albany. Rosie America, a symbol of female industry during a real Rosie? That's a subject of some debate. in a 1942 song of the same name. Rose Monroe, factory in Michigan, and worked to build B-24 the Riveter," she was chosen to be the live the Riveter" from the song, and would appear something of a celebrity herself. Rose lived This charming rural cemetery is Cedar Hill As an actor he's best remembered for his in the 70s and 80s, as well as the made-for-TV Twilight Zone episode, Jess-Belle, and he often Westerns like Winchester '73. Best We're in Anderson now, and Anderson Memorial of Ray Harroun. One can't possibly visit the Indy 500. Harroun was a race car driver, of early race cars. On May 30, 1911 he raced first Indianapolis 500. The car was the Marmon making him the first Indy 500 champion. After as an engineer. Ray Harroun lived to be 89. Here we find the grave of Dottie Collins. pitcher for the All-American Girls Professional of her career with the Fort Wayne Daisies, Dottie was also instrumental in developing Baseball Hall of Fame. She died after suffering Their Own was partially inspired by Dottie's "Dottie." Grove Cemetery. Here lies the legendary Regis it up perfectly in saying "Everyone knows the most familiar faces on television beginning He's perhaps best-remembered for co-hosting Kathie Lee, and later, Live! With Regis and "Nice to see you. It's Monday, September beginning of a brand-new talk show across why another talk show, right?" Regis also hosted the popular gameshow, Who a Guinness World Record for "Most Hours Philbin died from a heart attack at the age This is Calumet Park Cemetery in Merrillville. but his marker here gives you a pretty good for the Oscar Meyer Company, remembered for He traveled the country for some 20 years parades, shopping centers, and stores. After of the Wienermobiles to the cemetery for his I were an Oscar Meyer Wiener," in his memory. we find the grave of Henry "Homer" Haynes. and Jethro. The pair performed together on in the 30s. They would record more than 50 of Kookamonga." And in 2001 they were inducted died of a heart attack at age 51. friends in Wisconsin? This is Prairie Home a man whose name has become synonymous with songwriter, inventor, luthier, and recording have made him the only person inducted into Inventors Hall of Fame. Earlier in his career selling millions of records with his wife, experimenting with building a solid-body electric release as the Gibson Les Paul. Today the every genre. But his contributions to the innovated recording techniques with overdubbing, recording. Les Paul died at the age of 94, or stones that are left, it's guitar picks. Cemetery. Here lies Alfred Lunt. He was an West End productions in the 20s to the 60s, Shrew, and comedies by Noel Coward. And while did make a few notable appearances on screen, and an Oscar nomination for his role in The his wife Lynn Fontanne. In fact, they were they were often collectively referred to as of the 20th century. Lynn would be described the stage. And paralleling her husband, she and an Oscar Nomination for The Guardsman. on stage and off throughout their life, and Graceland Cemetery is in Mineral Point, Wisconsin. He was an emcee and gameshow host on television for hosting over 400 episodes of Password, that he would meet his wife, Betty White. the comedic play, Janus, as well as on episodes was diagnosed with cancer in 1980, and died Betty White's life, who would never remarry, needs the rest?" Many assumed that, after she would be buried here with her beloved currently held by a friend. Neshonoc Cemetery. Here lies Hamlin Garland. featured realistic depictions of midwestern first success was "Main-Travelled Roads." "A Daughter of the Middle Border." Garland Moving on now to Viroqua Cemetery, and the remembered for her role as Beulah Balbricker Porky's II. Other memorable roles include died from diabetes and congestive heart failure. in La Crosse. This is where Nicholas Ray is great directors and screenwriters, active for films like the noir classic, In a Lonely Without a Cause. The film would be the defining Ray an Oscar Nomination for best writing. generation of filmmakers, like Jean-Luc Godard. passing away at age 67. Home Cemetery in Greenfield. He was a musician of Bob Dylan, and Johnny Cash, but is best Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers for two decades, of their hits, like "Learning to Fly." of drug use. Here lies John Matuszak. He began his career for teams including the Oakland Raiders. He After football he turned to acting. John's Sloth in the 1980s classic, The Goonies. John was just 38 when he died from heart failure, and an enlarged heart. crime and horror enthusiasts, here at Plainfield Gein, serial killer, body snatcher. His crimes the nation in the 50s, with stories of skulls lampshades or upholstering chairs, or even comes from the worst of humanity, as was the Butcher, who spent the rest of his life at inspire Robert Bloch's 1959 suspense novel, make into one of the most iconic horror films villains like Leatherface, and Buffalo Bill once marked, but was vandalized over the years who placed it in storage. of Michigan. Let's begin in Detroit, which and Motown music. begin at Woodlawn Cemetery here in Detroit. Aretha Franklin, and Rosa Parks. We're back grounds, like the Dodge Bros. John and Horace 1900, which manufactured parts for other automobile they began manufacturing their own cars, beginning Ford's Model T. Dodge quickly rose to one But just a few years later, both Dodge brothers 55, Horace from cirrhosis a few months later Moving on we find the private mausoleum of and the brother of another legend, Diana Ross. and Marvin Gaye, including the hit "I Want 1996 at age 47. Arthur and his wife were found Detroit, bound and gagged. They had died from altercation. Ruffin. He was a soul singer, remembered as in the 1960s. Perhaps the most iconic song Girl." Ruffin was inducted into the Rock in 1989. He was just 50 when he died of an This heart-shaped grave belongs to Levi Stubbs. group, The Four Tops, who had a number of the songs "I Can't Help Myself (Sugar Be There." Stubbs is also remembered for musical comedy "Little Shop of Horrors." Stubbs died in his sleep at age 72. our next notable figure here. Here is the television producer, remembered for co-creating television: The Lone Ranger, and The Green radio in the 30s, before expanding into movie the 50s and 60s. George died from a heart and his wife Adelaide are missing some letters Back out to the grounds, and the Angel Garden He was a founding member and the bass singer the 60s and 70s. Their hits include "I'll Jackson continued to perform with the group There is no shortage of Motown history in another of the founding members of The Four perform with The Four Tops for over five decades. Gaye hit, "What's Going On." He died died. He was 69. one of the first virtuosic bass players, a His style would help define the Motown sound, Supremes, and Stevie Wonder. As a session hits, and is considered one of the most influential into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2000. pneumonia at just 47. of actress Susie Garrett. Her best-known role Punky Brewster. She also made appearances in 2002. grave of actor George Peppard. His breakout alongside Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's. Carpetbaggers. Then on television he would as Hannibal Smith. Peppard was diagnosed with two years later at the age of 65. we visited Dottie Collins. Here we find another She was a right fielder and pitcher who played Girls Professional Baseball League. Her story of Their Own. Rosie lived to be 89. Here we find the grave of Florence Ballard. Motown group, The Supremes. She sang on ten "Baby Love," and "Stop! In the Name the group in 1967, and left the Supremes to she died from a coronary thrombosis. Her life Dreamgirls. Here lies Paul Williams, a founding member His baritone voice can be heard in background Way You Do the Things You Do." He would the early 70s, Paul's ailing health began On August 17, 1973, Paul Williams was found body, and his death was ruled an apparent Let's find another one for you automotive is the grave of David Buick. He was a Scottish-born it, the Buick Motor Company in 1903. Buick in the late 1800s, developing the now commonly in the 1904 Buick Model B. Buick is now a died from cancer at age 74. mausoleum is the eternal home of Mike Ilitch. Little Caesar's Pizza, with his wife Marian. Garden City, Michigan. Little Caesars has chain in the US. Ilitch also owned a number Wings, and the Detroit Tigers. He passed away Westlawn Cemetery is in nearby Wayne. Here a prominent figure in the transition of rhythm master showman, he was dubbed "Mr. Excitement." Billy Ward and His Dominoes, then went solo hits, like "Higher and Higher." In September Good Ol' Rock and Roll Revue. As he sang song "Lonely Teardrops," he suffered a taken to the hospital where he slipped into which he would never fully recover. He died into the Rock and Roll and R&amp;B Halls of Fame. in Battle Creek. This is the grave of Sojourner activist in the 19th century. She was born family bought her freedom. Shortly thereafter sold into slavery in Alabama. She sued to black woman to go to court against a white travel the countryside, giving speeches of titled "Ain't I a Woman?" She would Army during the civil war, and dedicated the society for African-Americans, and women. was the first to honor an African-American Another one here at Oak Hill to pique your start or end your day with a bowl of cereal, and his brother John were working in a sanitarium, Their experiments led to the creation of flaked To sell the product, W.K. founded the Battle which then became the Kellogg Company. Today where you can still find those original corn like Rice Krispies, and non-cereal favorites 91. name synonymous with it, Post. Charles William at the sanitarium where the Kellogg brothers him to try his own hand a cereal. In 1895 first product, Postum, a cereal beverage. in 1897: Grape-Nuts, which are neither grapes his own life at age 59. grave of Verne Troyer. Born with a form of He began acting in the early 90s, making appearances shoot to stardom when cast as Mini-Me in the "He is exactly like you in every way... "Breathtaking. I shall call him Mini-Me." and the Sorcerer's Stone. He would also television. Verne Troyer died from alcohol How about we find another president while Museum in Grand Rapids. On the grounds of his wife, Betty. Gerald Ford served as the 1974 to 1977. He succeeded the presidency scandal. And since he had been appointed a Ford became the first unelected president task of trying to heal a nation torn by presidential and respected for honorably discharging the the '76 election to Jimmy Carter, and lived President Ford rests here next to his wife, Lady, but set a precedent for being politically passionate supporter of the still unpassed rights and women's rights. She became famous like feminism, equal pay, and gun control. substance abuse, founding the Betty Ford Center husband, Betty lived to be 93. find the grave of the man with the branded who became a national hero in 1844 when he following his attempt to help seven runaway to help these slaves? He was branded with with the markings S.S. on his hand, for "Slave year in solitary confinement. He became a and would even inspire the John Greenleaf reads in part: Then lift that manly right-hand, shall prophesy, &quot;SALVATION TO THE SLAVE!&quot; by trade, lived to be 79. epitaphs over the years, and this one ranks is Thetford Township Cemetery, and this grave to Michael "Pac Man" Luther. As the story arcade games, but distributed coin operation of Pac-Man, so much so that it became his his sister designed this stone in the style is the iconic Pac-Man game layout, which fittingly This is Maple Grove Cemetery in Leetsville. Grace Gilbert. At birth, Grace was covered she aged. As a young woman she realized her with a full beard were limited, so she joined and most famous "Bearded Ladies" to tour Bros, and Barnum &amp; Bailey circuses. Grace Female Esau," "Girl with the Golden Whiskers," She also appeared regularly on Coney Island. just 47. Cemetery. Here we find an icon of classic appearances on some of the very early shows Playhouse 90, and even the Twilight Zone. as the original Darrin Stephen on Bewitched, "You don't believe me." black hat and broom, and how come you're "Mother was right. You're prejudiced." the beloved classic, between 1964 and 1969. in 1959, he suffered a permanent, debilitating but it got worse over the years, and led to seasons of Bewitched, he found it harder and this, having Darrin sitting or lying in bed, it got so bad he wound up in the hospital, recovery. Dick Sargent replaced him as Darrin He managed just a couple more TV appearances spent bed-ridden, battling his spinal injury at age 63. And that concludes our tour. What are some visited today? Share them in the comments for more famous grave tours. next one.