Transcriber: zoe chen Future medicine is What did Einstein mean? As a physician, as a radiologist, We don't use scalpel blades. We use a fundamental to non-invasively dissect using an MRI machine or a CAT scan. Now, the deeper meaning of this insight, however, I only began to appreciate in my very first year of medical practice. I was diagnosed with a heart condition Turned out I had a big heart and I was appointed And very quickly did I realize that And in fact, how we study, how we define health and wellness I realized that there was something This catapulted me on a journey looking at how other cultures I found myself traveling to India and very quickly realized that there is that we are not exposed to in the West, in the medical The science of mind, how to feel deeply connected perhaps something The science of consciousness. And because of my radiology background, very quickly I realized and the model that was so deeply rooted in science, And I recall this light bulb moment when I thought of Einstein, Now, we can all appreciate this. I mean, when you go we use a blood pressure cuff An electrocardiogram is measuring the electric current Electroencephalogram We are energetic beings. Imagine you are approximately Every cell are made of molecules, and molecules are made of atoms. And atoms, my friends, Atoms are high frequency And in fact, Nikola Tesla said, you have to think in terms of energy, Even your thoughts are forms of energy. Our emotions, in fact, Now we can talk about love, That lightness, that expansiveness And yet when we're stressed, we feel confined and constricted. We get so hyper focused These emotions, these energies the rhythms of our heart. And we can identify these rhythms through what we Heart rate variability of the entire beat intervals And they're constantly changing. But when you feel good, one of these considered your heart rhythms where the heart begins to speed up and And then it will speed up and slow down. And what we're actually witnessing is the balance between the two arms your sympathetic These rhythms from the heart And it has a profound, because it affects Think of times Maybe you're preparing for a TED talk, maybe you're about to write an exam. And that anxiety, that stress You don't even know what you know anymore. But imagine times You're in the flow of life. That moment, And when that happens, actually synchronizes with So now you've got what we call Your heart rate, your heart rhythm begin to synchronize And then they begin They grow in amplitude and in strength. This is very important that's involved in the way the way that we perceive information, the ways that which we react or respond And in fact, this coherence when it comes to improving mental health, particularly those implementing coherence programs They also demonstrate radical particularly college prep scores. Looking at mathematics, there is When children learn how to tap into Now, it's not just the brain but it's the entire body. Imagine going to the symphony tonight. The musicians are on stage warming up. The conductor hasn't showed up yet. We'd be sitting in the audience, We wouldn't hear any music. But the moment All the musicians are now synchronized and you hear this beautiful, The body is no different. In fact, the heart is the conductor, and every biological organ are musicians in this beautiful And when this happens, just as how the heart into synchronization when you have heart, it pulls all the other organs into sync. And then they all begin and they grow in strength So imagine what we're saying now this optimal energetic state, So imagine now your heart rhythms, your brainwaves, your blood pressure, your respiratory rhythms, running through your skin are all You would imagine at the most optimal state Dr. John Kabat-Zinn, the Godfather of Mindful Base His research showed that and inflammatory skin condition, when patients learn how to use they healed four times faster. Four times. And in fact, a research paper showed those that had the highest were 50 times more likely to be alive This is a game changer And as a physician, Dr. Sarah Lazar from Harvard, she has identified that The more that you practice techniques the easier that it becomes. The greater effects, that relaxation and becomes easier to practice. And in fact, just like your muscles will you know, for a month your brain structurally changes. And this research now shows us that And when you practice enough, Parts of the brain like the amygdala the less evolved parts And yet we know that the frontal cortex, Identifying this capacity that we have is like technology that we can Here is a graph hooked up to a heart monitor. And essentially the police officer encounters A situation, fight or flight kicks in. His heart rate jumps up to 180 beats After the scenario, you notice but it stays elevated That is still an elevated heart rate. Trauma does not just exist in one moment, trauma lingers within the body. And if you notice how at about 1154, the officer is asked cultivate that coherence The heart rate immediately And what's really interesting is not just improving brain function it's not just improving our state but it turns out that the physical boundaries of your body. Your heart is a largest An EKG is literally you're looking at the currents running through your heart. Well, Physics 101 says anything also creates a magnetic field. We each have a field of energy around us Just as your heart into this beautiful state of entrainment and can pull all your organ to synchronize and grow in amplitude, you can pull other people into coherence. Imagine what I'm saying now. Your thoughts and your intentions, your state of being And in fact, in this graph, you can see this is actually taken with four feet apart from each other, And you can clearly see to cultivate a sense of compassion but also for that other person, They cultivate a coherent state and their heart rhythms Now, this is huge in medicine, okay? Scientists at Haifa University identified that when you create your pain perception can Okay. In fact, the Journal of American identified in patients who receive one pre-op visit just to create a state of results in 50% less opioid use post-op and statistically significant in post-op complications Even CEOs of organizations When you provide people the tools so that they can self regulate and now you bring them in you're creating a very inviting and In fact, the research shows your creative problem solving increases, your health care costs decrease. Everything that you would is now operating at this optimal Why is it that our biology in such a way that they are so connected that we influence each other Now to answer that, "Learn how to see. Everything Now, when working with I provide a lens for them And this lens is really a geometry. Can you notice that Einstein the centerpiece called This is a 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, the most energetically balanced And in this diagram, it represents The Dalai Lama, on the other hand, is staring at the background lotus flower. This is an ancient symbol that has always the science of consciousness. Can you notice how these two diagrams, They occupy the same space. There's a fundamental mathematical And now, you are going that every flower, everything from Mother Nature It flows with the exact same rhythm. We call this the Fibonacci sequence, the golden ratio, sacred geometry. To be honest with you, I'm a radiologist, I am more concerned Because once you begin you also begin As a radiologist, and I can tell you that every aspect of our physical being Every bit. And it's important to recognize because from the spiraling this frequency, this energy, It connects us all. And when you layer this awareness with the fact that we are it creates a new framework of and our relationships to each other. And it's key. And it's key not just for our own but it is key to addressing what Einstein said was We are unfortunately We don't recognize ourselves. You realize, well, sure, you know, life can be a culture or it could be a super organism or perhaps another super When we begin to understand that sense of connection becomes tangible. And in fact, it helps us reframe. It's not about you versus me. It's about when we help we're helping ourselves. Because we now have the technology that's accessible, free, easy to use, that can literally track and through your phone, free! Imagine you can measure your coherence, you can track your progress over time, and we can now measure When we come together we're now practicing but we're now practicing with because we are so interconnected. So I encourage all of you go online, find a friend, join a group, Even if it's for five minutes a day, I guarantee you, or to listen to critics. I guarantee you, if you take five minutes and you begin to tune in to And if you stick with it with intention, I guarantee you it undoubtedly changes, you are changing your biochemistry, your neurophysiology, process information, your resilience. It's unbelievable. Thank you very much. (Applause)