Wow, look at all this Hollow Knight content I isn't it? Silksong could be delayed until But until then let's talk about one of the the Colosseum of Fools. The Colosseum is such a understand this place much at all. I mean, why area in the midst of a dangerous pandemic? Come Overall, the Colosseum is one of the few big like the Vitruvian Grub, and the Trilobite Shrine Lifeblood creature, and the Shade Lord, and this fuck happened to Isma? Like seriously what the theories have popped up trying to explain it. So all out, even if there isn't any strong conclusion The Colosseum of Fools was originally a new bosses and a chance to uncover the mystery of actually reached, Team Cherry added the area into bosses were originally Zote, the Oblobbles, multiple times. Of course, there is also the God But she was actually just a Kickstarter The original boss design was the Lobster want to canonize lobsters. I have no idea why. but not these majestic bottom From an early map of Hallownest made during of Fools was originally placed in Village. Of course in the final game, the a more late game area. Kingdom's Edge hodgepodge of stuff they couldn't fit into originally going to be in Deepnest but ended up We also might have a glimpse of some of the In an interview with Rock, Paper, Shotgun, Ari his sketchbooks that he used to draw concept art the author claims that this place was actually the audience was originally going to be composed of these sketches contain some really weird shit The Colosseum of Fools that we see in the game game's development. But that doesn't mean there Ari mentioned that the Colosseum And there really is a lot to discuss here The Colosseum of Fools is situated Both the interior and exterior of This might be a way to keep the husk of the to support the structure surrounding it. Also So it seems like this was just some random corpse But a battleground for whom exactly? Who exactly murdering each other for the entertainment of "What do they hope for, these warriors or prisoners, or do they freely choose to fight?". The game gives us a pretty clear simply just to fight in the colosseum. They want That's why we see characters like Tiso, fighting in the colosseum just for the sake of it. But this is where things get weird. All of the But in the Warrior's Pit below, they not trying to murder us. One of them is while also still wearing all of his one bug goes all Shakespearean on So what is it about these warriors in the Warrior's Pit? There are the traitor and it would make sense for the Fools as it would give them more strength, but the At least that's what the Hunter's Journal says. campsites, which I assume must take at least Also Traitor Mantises show up at the Colosseum. from the Queen's Garden to the far end of the The exact details of the infection have example why exactly do characters like Cornifer wills that strong? Cloth's will never the last time I said this people started really impressive when she fucking died Why is it that we can literally just talk to but Myla is a completely lost cause? As for Zote, the infection. In Precept 56, he clearly states he simply doesn't dream. So at least I'd like to speculate at least a little bit about infection, but first we're going to have to talk in the first place. The main culprit behind all we aren't going to be getting much out of him, he honest. Despite that, however, the Colosseum Of course there is the Little Fool, rules to anyone interested in fighting. And but obviously there is work happening behind and breeding the Sharp Baulders and Armoured I don't even want to think about the There also had to be people to capture Zote, as and into the wasteland of Kingdom's Edge. All of sits dead on the throne. It's not exactly uncommon their leader, so that's not really surprising. is the helmets most of the The Hunter makes a remark about the masks Battle practical. Now there are a couple points to extravagance, then why the fuck are they all like making a minecraft house out of diamonds, So are these masks and helmets used for more a lot on this channel. There are a few Masks seem to somehow have A prime example of this is Brumm, a servant of Brumm is a brooding musician about 2 months away However, after the Grimm Troupe is banished we can His name changes to Nymm, his personality memories he has about his time in the Troupe. And This effect is alluded to by the Mask Maker lose their sense of self. I think it's are experiencing this as well. Now obviously If you Dream Nail the Battle Obble it will still but maybe the masks force these sort of like how Brumm and the other Grimm Troupe Otherwise I don't know why the Hunter makes this mask. It's also entirely possible that Team Cherry I mean, if you read some of these journal entries, what Elder Baldurs think about when they curl up. Or the Oblobble entry where he just So there is maybe an explanation for why But what about the audience? Who are these people? Colosseum appear in two separate places. Two Crossroads. They will just be talking amongst they shut up and just awkwardly stare at it. If implying that they are quite aware of The other instance is a bit more vague. Corpses the Howling Cliffs. Their head shape and body so it's likely that these are the same species. without the King's powers, their minds have been in this area, which tells us that if bugs So it seems these Colosseum bugs appear to need since these ones on the edge of So what does all this mean? Well, I'm not really But it does tell us that these bugs are but not capable of keeping their That seems odd considering how well known the outside of the kingdom like Tiso even know about At this point I want to mention a Basically the argument goes that similar to the Pale King. And the Lord Fool similar to the Pale King. That would give us is as well as explain how there might be some sort like they aren't infected. I briefly mentioned the Some people have been saying this corpse exactly what kind of creature this was. Maybe Well that was insightful.This thing probably to be little claws that this bug might have wyrms like the Pale King's original form didn't sure if they had eyes either. Or buttholes. Also, Why didn't he try and build his own So I'd say the chance of this thing being a size of Wyrms we have to compare this creature variations of Wyrms out there in the world. in the normal sense, so I really doubt wyrms So to recap, we've got a Colosseum that is death of their apparent leader and the onset of to the infection, both inside and outside the are infected, but do not show signs of aggression bugs are wearing crafted extravagant masks that but maybe have something to do with we are missing one important detail. The fact The Colosseum was probably around during the days used in the game manual. We also know that was the Pale Lurker. Her dream nail dialogue shows kept a King's Idol in her camp. Of course, Idol and became obsessed with the King, without all in all it seems like the Colosseum of Fools But there is one more aspect of the Colosseum we This is the room where the Knight's shade appears The room itself is actually called the shade pretty big question. Why did the bugs of the Did other void beings fight in this Colosseum? speculate. So let's start with a pretty fun We know the Hollow Knight was trained to prime and a shade trap was built in case This might also be evidence that the Colosseum It seems as though the Ancient Civilization was from Hallownest, considering they literally that this civilization was capable of giving of just how old this place actually is, when Another more interesting idea is that void beings I'm about to jump into some Silksong spoilers of the game getting spoiled, you should skip void can only be found in we know of at least one character who might This character has an attack and it looks suspiciously like the void where this void could have come from, but maybe creatures would actually come to the Colosseum to but the inclusion of this shade trap might And that's about all there is to talk about with hidden there, the only two theories I have are the fighters, or that the Pale King might have So thanks for watching and before you go, be canonize lobster.