Minecraft's axolotls used to look like this, These are massive changes Mojang have made Creepers used to be a LOT more stealthy. Back when all extremely bright green, meaning that creepers this when it was just a coding error, but then help them blend in. He even said he imagined Mojang added biome colours, the creeper ended up Number 2 texture, Steve had a massive change. His hair was little more 3D. But if you take it off... That's without anyone noticing, since third person his beard not long after, but the &quot;Steve&quot; and Number 3 few times. When he was added to Smash Bros., to In Japanese, this word here means &quot;ice ax&quot;, and name in Minecraft: Pocket Edition Lite, used to be Number 4 while making the axolotl. Whoever made the model making it look like a massive snout! This tail with legs that aren't attached to to PROTECT endangered species! This is just Speaking of mob mishaps, at number five is which had some funny faces. With NO snout! They dropped a random amount of mushrooms you could put a saddle on one and ride use commands to ride baby striders, And for number six, striders had a lot more them to look like this, inspired by tardigrades. before settling on the final strider we a secret fin which, when added into the game Number 7 had a lot of changes. They used to have this bit ride them, they were just like chest minecarts. Number 8 Looks a little weird having this texture snuck in a texture without you noticing for the not gonna lie. Luckily, they quietly Number 9 a feature you see ALL THE TIME when they added noticed it. When you take damage, you tilt your your head would tilt in the direction you this for so long that it has become part of the Number 10 tables used to look similar to dispensers when they were being added but this was changed later in the game. Can't be letting you have Number 11 in-game you might not have spotted. When picking colour! And when picking up any aquatic mob, the this was caused by the weight of the fish, which Number 12 You've seen the awkward axolotl, but dolphins an accident. In their first appearance from separate from their bodies! I think it looks a The early design did show up in the Number 13 have stayed pretty much the same over the years. inventory for a very long time. The dandelion this developer was making something completely some random pixels on it just to distinguish it Number 14 Even more creative than they are now and I don't mean creative mode. You had to build repeaters with stone and redstone torches. This was turned into an item, compacting this into Number 15 Everyone loves eating Minecraft's chocolate chip when you feed them one. It used to not be this but Mojang had to change it when they realised and they didn't want anyone to Number 16 and its portal went through a big change from you'll see twelve cross-shaped, floating bits will turn it into a cracked cube of glass, These blocks did look pretty magical, but Mojang Number 17 hoppers used to look like when they were made a furnace with a hopper! This work in progress when you dropped it on the floor, it because the game was taking the texture Number 18 always drops between two and five individual This is what carrots used to look like when Golden carrots were added at the Mojang made it look even more like a Number 19 invisibility potions were added. A removed feature wolf's collar stay visible. It was changed but pig saddles don't disappear and neither does Also, the effect icon for invisibility Number 20 their mind on a few decisions in the past, A Mojang employee said in a livestream that but the fan response on Minecraft's feedback changed their minds and added it in. The Number 21 There are normally only three sizes but, using big you want! The biggest one doesn't even fit on added, they looked like this and were literally Number 22 first called &quot;bouncy blocks&quot; when Jeb showed them similar to slime blocks. They originally looked This article on the Minecraft website shows them beta had a tiny central cube! I prefer the Number 23 this change because you probably never use the used for making large structures out of smaller At that point they were only used for world Number 24 Minecraft's crafting stations is distinct, but The cartography table and fletching table both Number 25 I wouldn't blame you for forgetting their names. particular variant. At first, they were commonly cursed for a Minecraft block name. The block was Mojang decided to call them chiseled stone Number 26 so Mojang changed it a bit. They used to be made for a similar reason to the enchanting table) and Jeb thought they were so useful that there needed Number 27 you'll know that villagers used to have the might not know that, while the Village and Pillage the villagers would run away from them and could It can't even move! This change was reverted, even Number 28 played one of Minecraft's oldest versions used to look... pretty weird. Even though the the shape has always stayed the same. From the sapling really has evolved. Number 29 Another block that used to look weird during which were called &quot;emerald blocks&quot; at the time. but Mojang changed it to nine. While making some... rough looking drafts, but eventually Number 30 added to Bedrock Edition a long time before it was and the texture changed during 1.18's top part of the sides but, while doing down. In the next snapshot it was moved Number 31 Think sitting on that strider fin would hurt? dangerous. If you've played since Pocket was created to stop the crafting table menu but returned in 2018 with a new design that Number 32 loads of prototypes we NEVER see. This is just Even if you don't like how dripstone looks Number 33 Fools' joke to being an actually useful block. block in the 2013 Minecraft 2.0 joke update and though Dinnerbone said it Mojang added it a month later as a real Number 34 Mojang added the shulker box and for over a year, shulker box. The light grey one was called the In 1.13, the purple shulker box became just a Number 35 before the 2010 Halloween update released, with a different skin and no weapon. They the Nether) and were said to be &quot;kind were added and would hunt you down for eternity Speaking of the nether, for number 36, the first involving them. When hurt, they would flail their back to normal. For more weird glitches that and join the Discord! Link's below.