Welcome to another Mathologer video. A animation of the first ever proof that published it in 1761. Really a huge It came more than 2,000 years after the annoying irrational numbers. After math teacher here in Australia told us problem on the toughest Australian maths extension 2 exam from 2003. The students this country. They are around 17 years maths exam in school. Let's have a closer worth a total of 120 marks. The last set looks like this. Looks pretty scary, right? It looks even scarier if you just focus on what's asked of the students at the end. So it appears what they're supposed irrational. Really? And how much is this maths exam worth? Eight out of hundred percent. Well, when you have a closer look is definitely quite demanding but not glance. What the students are asked to do which is essentially due to the famous That's the man. What I'd like to do today actually today's goal is really quite streamlined version of this proof which self-contained and accessible to high shortest and simplest proof for the unfortunately all the great attributes free in life :) motivate proof that I showed you before such an extent that it may very well ingenious but the mathematical watching this video you probably won't say that pi is irrational means that pi be written as a ratio of integers. Okay things get serious. Like pretty much Hermite's proof I'll show you is an works like this: we'll start by assuming So both u and V are positive integers. an infinite sequence of positive numbers But then when we have a really really in the sequence are actually all impossible, positive integers cannot get they can get is 1 away, right? And so number implies something that is false. But since nothing false can follow from assumption has to be false to start has to be irrational. Great! But now let's Everybody, mathematical seatbelts on? Alright so we start by assuming that pi is equal to u divided by v. Now let me show talked about. So the zeroeth number in the is 4 times the denominator v squared. where did that come from? Looks on. However, it's really just an area that in a moment, okay. So what do we have to do first? We have to convince ourselves that all the numbers given by they really get closer and closer to is called an integral. It simply and the graph of this function here from these graphs will roughly look the bump positive in between. Now what we need is this bump is. That's easy. In between zero power of n is, well, what? Well x cannot be so the maximum value of x to the power actually the same is true for the next So this means that for every possible at most as large as this product here that the bump is located underneath the the area of the bump is less than the times height. That's this guy here and integral which is the area of the bump bigger than the term I_n that we are up a bit and let's put these three numbers on the number line. Now it's not hard to show to zero as we crank up n. But then, since number and zero it has to tend to zero thing in the middle has to go to zero, too. try to show that this number actually Here's a hint. Call this number here x and then show that this expression goes to zero for hint check out the previous video around leave your solutions in the comments. we're up to here. We just got to know our little bit and convinced ourselves that not made use of our assumption that pi step to conclude that all the terms of then leads to the contradiction we're Okay to indicate the kind of argument the Fibonacci numbers. Well you all a 0 and a 1 which are usually called F_0 1 equals 1. Next is 1 plus 1 is 2, then 2 sequence is pinned down by the first two general rule that the nth Fibonacci previous two Fibonacci numbers. In maths recurrence relation. The point I'd like from this recurrence relation and the fact integers that all the terms of the integer plus an integer is always an relation in place but changed the seed the new sequence would still be all the sequence of numbers were interested down by its first two terms and the recurrence relation is a bit more Fibonacci sequence. Also remember that u and v are the numerator and denominator of our pi fraction. Anyhow it should also be green numbers are both integers then the be an integer as well. And this means recurrence relation up there is really numbers I_0 and I_1 are the integers the terms of our sequence are establishes the contradiction and we'll that pi is irrational. What a super duper, fantastic, nifty argument, don't you think?Well I think he agrees. (Marty) I agree. (Burkard) He agrees. Everything so far was pretty easy but numbers in our sequence precisely and calculus. To check that the blue numbers evaluate the integral. First for n is here. Of course, if you know a little bit that this is really equal to 2. But that I make your day by pointing out one of the waves of the sine function is really intrigued by this the first time talking about pi here but there seems to the circle is represented by the sine properties that are at the core of the about the second blue number. Hmm this is also not hard if you know a little bit of calculus. Otherwise just go with the simplify on auto-pilot. It looks roughly think about this stuff. And now you boxes as standard examples of integrals of integration by parts. And if you do get. This and that and everything last part of the puzzle it remains to true for all n starting with n = 2. Similar to the calculation of I_1 this is done by applying integration by enough that the students actually get 4 this part right. I actually now have to because without those details it's just not clear why the integral is built the way circle really plays in this proof. The if you're familiar with integration by calculus facts thrown in. If you're not still be able to understand most of it minutes anyway. As a reward for those of I've prepared something extra nice for integration by parts allows us to do is different integral in the hope that the me show you using one instance of the able to apply integration by parts you factors like this. Now here's the first factor in the original integral integral and the second factor turns into one of its anti derivatives. Alright let's have a close look at our special vanishes at x=0 and x=pi. This means that all those non-integral terms down there vanish, too. when integrated gives minus cosine. The Okay let's calculate the derivative of this new integral is not all that Just a cos instead of a sine in the from 5 and a bit of junk in front. Now those non integral bits in the formula and the rest is just this here. Well, okay, but it turns out that a little easy basically I mean it's just the pen doing easy, easy, easy, done. Now this mini mess splits up into two integrals like this. Of course, the interested in is this guy here's. So algebra autopilot, alright, it's all massaging a bit so that everything looks stage you can see these bits are I actually think it's really cool that assumption that pi is the fraction u So let's do it. Things cancel out, great. formula we just have to replace the 5s by ns. So let's just do that. Phew, okay, okay I have to take a bow here, take again. So anyway what a great final maths congratulations to all the students who It's really quite marvellous how then you may ask yourself how could This proof really seems to have fallen question is almost worth another video linked to some articles that give some checking out. As a bit of a crazy in which our recurrence relation up fraction like the one in Lambert's proof by I_(n-1). So now we know that the grand scheme of things we still know the irrationality of numbers. For example, or pi x e are irrational. Having said result which says that at least one of with no indication whatsoever as to absolutely love this sort of thing. there behind the camera pointed out to refined to show that pi is not only of this form here with u, v and w integers. quadratic formula you'll see that this quadratic equation with integer ingenious one-glance proof of the one step away. So let's finish with this Okay we've got x minus pi times x minus quadratic polynomial on the right which pi + e and pi x e. Now let's assume Then multiplying through with gives this, which means that this coefficients on the right has a zero at shows that this is not the case and so both pi + e and pi x e are least one of these numbers has to be sure, we don't know which. Strange, strange, strange. And that's all for today but before you switch channels if you know challenging questions on school exams could you please let me know in the comments or