Transcriber: Eunice Tan The best part of being a veterinarian And I don't mean the ones that come in I mean the ones that are carried in, the ones that don't respond when they are taken from safe by a stranger. I mean the ones that when you see them, you are not confident that you're going to be able So when they do go home, it's like watching magic happen. The dogs go up front and they are so excited. They bark, and they cry, and they wag not just their tail but their whole back end. And cats - the cool kids of the animal world - lose their minds. They're purring and they're rubbing against the carrier because they're so happy It's literally watching magic happen. And every single time you see that, and every time you think of it, it makes you happy. Because it doesn't always happen. I don't get to do spays I am an emergency veterinarian. I don't work at a clinic; That means good news doesn't come see me. I perform euthanasia daily, and sometimes multiple times a day. Euthanasia is a kindness I love my job because whether I am saving a life I am making a difference. &quot;Euthanasia&quot; - the word literally means &quot;good death.&quot; Euthanasia is a kindness. &quot;Euthanasia is a kindness&quot; has been broadcast far and wide. If it is a kindness, why doesn't it always feel like one? It doesn't feel like one, because it is a kindness There are emotional fees One of the most common fees that I see is the hindsight fee, where, after the fact, people look back and say, &quot;Did I do the right thing?&quot; The answer is, &quot;Yes, because you put your pet's needs for peace above your own needs to hold on.&quot; A similar fee that I see where people look back at a hospitalization or a surgery that didn't have the hoped-for outcome. And then they beat themselves up, and they lament that decision, and they say, &quot;I shouldn't have put him through that.&quot; What a treatment failure means - what it really means - is that you know in your heart, you know to your core, that you did every single thing you could And sometimes, injuries are too severe to overcome and little bodies wear out. And if you had had a crystal ball would you have made a different decision? Yeah, of course you would have. But nobody has a crystal ball. You made the best decision you could and nobody can do more than that The hardest fee that I see where people feel is a betrayal to all the love and kindness their animal has showed them And I hear them saying goodbye, and they say, &quot;I am so sorry, baby.&quot; When your pet is in pain, when they are struggling to move, when there is nothing more giving them a soft goodbye and sending them peacefully to heaven is a kindness, not a betrayal. I learned firsthand that these emotional fees when I had to send my own dog Cooper was my 15-year-old beagle. He would leave a trail of carnage as he trampled the chihuahuas to be the first one (Laughs) And he had always been like that. Until one day he wasn't, and I knew something was wrong. So I took him to the hospital, And there on the screen, I could see everything There was cancer everywhere. Surgery wasn't an option, and he was so far gone, So my choice was pretty clear. So I told him goodbye. And my amazing technicians McDonald's cheeseburger, vanilla ice cream, chocolate syrup, bacon bits, and a Snickers bar. (Laughter) (Laughs) So they brought it to him, And even as sick as he was, And he was eating the Snickers bar, looking at me like (Laughter) And so I took the opportunity to tell him &quot;Cooper, honey, I love you. And remember the poem I read you The one that connects I'm going to be on Rainbow Bridge for you. I'll find you there. I'm going to be on the green stripe - on the green stripe, okay? Yes, I get it. You're a dog; you're colorblind. I - the - the - the - the - the - the cold stuff you roll on, that's - that's where I'll be.&quot; (Exhales) So I told him goodbye, and I sent him softly to heaven (Sniffs) with breath that smelled (Laughter) And I thought that was the end. But for three days, this little voice in my head kept saying, &quot;Are you sure you made the right decision? Are you sure you did the right thing?&quot; And it drove me crazy because it went against I didn't need a crystal ball. I had done the ultrasound. I had seen everything and my mind accepted it. And that was when I realized it was my heart. Because it wasn't ready to let go and it wasn't ready to say goodbye. And it did the only thing it could, And that was when I had to recognize I was the family. And I had to sit down, &quot;Yes, it was the hardest decision, but it was also the kindest decision. (Exhales) And I'm going to miss him too.&quot; And with that, I was able Grief is the natural price It is always worth loving. When you are watching and they're doing their bathing yoga and they're trying to lick the spot and they fall off the couch and then pop up really quickly That's hilarious. (Laughter) When you're eating salad and your dog grabs it and chews it and then - bleah - spits it back out and glares at you like, (Laughter) (Laughs) Those moments make your life rich. It is always worth loving. But the grief is hard. The hindsight fee, the crystal ball fee, the betrayal fee can't be separated from euthanasia. And what they mean is that you are normal and you are grieving, not that you made a mistake. Those are the fees that the family pays. But euthanasia takes a toll Unfortunately, the suicide rate of veterinarians Those are the doctor's fees of euthanasia. To deal with those, I've developed three techniques to keep myself out of those statistics. The first one is I will not do If somebody's living if somebody finds it no longer convenient and they bring that healthy animal to me I refuse. If somebody brings me a dog and looked at the owner with the high heel &quot;These are delicious&quot; - (Laughter) and they want it euthanized, I refuse. The cat that vomited maybe thought it was ugly. (Laughter) They want it put to sleep? I refuse. Euthanasia is too big of a responsibility to be handled lightly I advise those families and get him a second chance. (Chuckles) Another technique I use is I give myself permission to feel When a professional Santa Claus Santa Claus: red suit, (Laughter) and I had to tell him it was sad. You want to challenge your karma? Tell a weeping Santa Claus When I watched a police officer lay on the floor and cradle the body that I had just euthanized because he lost his battle it was sad and it was hard. Yes, I do cry. And sometimes I cry a lot. But it is better to cry, to shed some tears than holding onto it and stuffing it down and pretend it wasn't really hard. My grief vault The final technique I use came to me One night, a woman brought in He had very advanced cancer, and there was just nothing more to do. He was in pain. And she told me that the night he had saved her life. She went into that shelter that day, not with a plan, just looking, just seeing who she fell in love with. And she saw this giant goofy face (Laughs) and knew he was the one. So she took home And that night, she was awakened by the sounds You see, she was And someone that she had put away and he broke in that night with every intention And that was when he met her new addition. (Laughter) She got out of bed to find a terrified man And the giant fluffy face was curled into a snarl that said, &quot;Oh, no. Not my new mom, and not my new house.&quot; So he saved her life. And we gave him a soft goodbye. The very next night, a woman came in with a little terrier with very severe congestive heart failure. He was old; it was advanced; they had done everything. His little heart had just worn out. Even in oxygen, There was nothing more I could do. She tearfully told me that he had saved her life One Christmas Eve, the Christmas lights on - and the tree caught fire. And he barked and barked and barked and they safely evacuated the house. She said the paper the next day, &quot;Pepper saves family for Christmas!&quot; (Laughter) So here I was again, being tasked with sending And that was when it came to me that if I was going to send lives and this much sincerity and love, I had better live my life So that's when I decided (Laughter) I don't just tell people that I love them, I show them that I love them. And when I go to the beach, I chase the waves. (Laughter) And whether it is offered to me as a gesture of affection I never ever refuse a cookie. (Laughter) (Applause)