Blown up (Tadashi)... Murdered by your own by the desert (Gazeem)... Torn apart Murdered by War-mongers... (Shan Yu kills village) Disney's major villains aren't the only we're ranking all the other Disney We'll start with the characters who have the least of course, refers to the characters who were Undoubtedly the least gruesome of the bunch was Did anyone REALLY think that Olaf, the happy stay dead? When Elsa was frozen in the sequel, her this sadly included the magic that brought Olaf or anything-he just calmly turns into a lifeless worried about what's going on. Even Olaf knew he he was right...because if he wasn't, I'm sure there Up next we have a contender for the most The Black Cauldron. But a slightly annoying voice After the crime of...not wanting to go into Satan's Gurgi "redeems" himself for his "cowardice"(or as by offering himself to the Cauldron in an attempt undead army from taking over the world. Given without a lot of visible damage, it's safe to one-not to mention the fact that the main group is ...Still kinda wish they did Nearing the end of this section is Megara, must not be easy, but when they've temporarily things even further. It makes sense that Hercules a pillar-being used to super-strength and like a bug. This means that Megara's sacrifice leading her to a pretty painful demise-albeit smile on her face as she thought of the Hercules returned the favor later on and the River Styx-which ended up giving him and also saving Meg. That's about as pleasant For our final non-final death, we have Stitch surprising to some of you, since this was a from having one of the most gut-wrenching death nearly the whole movie dealing with flashbacks and be, he finally decides the best course of action his Ohana. Unfortunately, Stitch didn't have himself-and as a result, he has a "glitch" during dying in the process. That...that's dark, man. this could easily end up as one of the most morbid as it is for Stitch to be revived by the literal once, because...well, Lilo wasn't the only one ...Oh, no, not me-Pleakley was me himself. Ask him if you don't believe me. Speaking of tears, this next section to home than those who get raised from the Kicking off this category, we have Gramma Tala rule about parental figures in Disney movies-if you can bet they're probably gonna get killed time by showing how deep the connection between really understands her desire to see the ocean, wayfinders and giving her the courage to follow in from an unknown illness fairly early on-but and return the heart of Te Fiti to its rightful as her chosen sea creature and giving her some that's a good grandparent, right there-even Next up we have...wait, she's the only then. I guess we'll move onto the Although he was a minor character, Pocahontas's ending. When he sees Pocahontas and John his would-be wifey-mistakenly sensing she's in make a bad partner. Unfortunately, this isn't the idea that John is being savagely attacked-and save his buddy. It's a truly sad scene...even if touching, Kocoum was a decent guy and definitely his death seemed to be instantaneous, so The same can be said for Kerchak, leader of the sucks that it took him so long to accept Tarzan literally in the end of his life-Kerchak was Tarzan. He proves that he's learned to to the point where he's willing to pass While he did choose to sacrifice himself, unlike he was alive for a bit longer after being Alright, uh...we all knew this one was coming. like sport(or even just food shopping) animal. Bambi and his mom found this out only known as "Man" comes to Bambi and his mom run away...until a single resulting in the death of Bambi's mother. This but Bambi's mother has one unique attribute so on top of that. She did her job as a mother deer, From one parental death to another-TWO, Parents from Lilo &amp; Stitch. We don't save for the fact that they died in a tragic car sister on her own. It's a death that's brutal, but by what they left behind-because they did get to send their kids a guardian angel It's always sad when the dog dies-even if like Roscoe and DeSoto. Bill Sykes's dogs from around-they're more than happy to kill and you can bet it's out of fear of their master-not dogs-so when their pursuit of Oliver, Dodger electrocuted to death on the train tracks, And rounding out this category, we've got rather. Flotsam and Jetsam might have sorta carry out their mamma's misdeeds, but Ursula's tells you that Ursula cared enough about these willingly...even if she'd yell now and then. So using that trident, their instantaneous death Ursula just straight-up killed her own pets, That's genuinely sad-to the point where even to tears. But if it's any consolation, Ursula, there won't be any hard feelings on the other Okay...now it's time to get serious. than a quick and ""easy"" death. First up, we have a death that ultimately resulted on today's list who chose to lay down his life in group of soldiers chased his family from their escape by surrendering himself. He could only humanity to talk things out...but unfortunately, Still, while Pedro went out, he went out DOR15, also known as "Doris," from Meet the Doris is undoubtedly a pure-evil antagonist. She's and reshaping the world in her own twisted image. anything-so we can't honestly say that any means OTHER hand, though, the way she gets defeated sheer willpower--Lewis, who would eventually both what would happen if she were unleashed, is warned I'm just not going to make you." Resultantly, the world from being taken over by hostile When you wish upon a star...you you're possibly wishing on Ray's corpse. but...the guy DID get stepped on by Dr. Facilier. being crushed by a giant-like the Bigger Boot justified as being so low is that, like Dennis dying later once he has the chance to say he's allowed to reunite with his wife in the enough to distract my brain from the tremendous Tadashi Yamada is up next, BUT THAT WAS writers' room. You're supposed to be in jail. Now, life to protect his loved ones...except in his case, professor he looked up to. But despite Callaghan from the exploding building-not to mention himself, because...uh...good question, actually. Dude trauma justifies letting an absolute king like We've talked about Bambi's mom, so now it's sure to come up in Disney death discourse: you probably know this one like the back Mufasa died during a desperate attempt to rescue he's successful in this regard-though not without he rushes up the canyon to get back to safety-only sinking his claws into him and throwing him to on impact, it's more likely that he suffered wildebeests-not to mention the emotional From one villain's betrayal to another, next Ratigan is honestly one of my favorite a super underrated movie, but the guy is just of redemption in him-as evidenced by the fact that wasn't safe from his treachery. He's one feed to his pet cat, Felicia, throughout the he's still forced into serving his master. In the that he needs to "lighten the load" of their sentiment Ratigan agrees with...and, resultantly, it's fatal-given that Fidget is disabled-and if he'd certainly die an even more painful death from But they didn't lose all their edge in the turn of It's hard enough that Sitka had to fight off a but when it comes down to it, he chooses not to best course of action is to create a perfect their feet, he creates a landslide that sends the himself to his death. This is one of those that's crushed? Did he drown in the frozen water? Was it but all we know is that Sitka, unlike that ...seriously, screw you, Just like the ocean knows what it did to Ignoring for now how many theories there all we know for sure is that Anna and Elsa's When their ship sunk, they would've certainly tried to escape. The absolute nicest way they and that's not even taking into account have felt. But even they pale in With that, we've reached the characters These last few characters possess Felicia from The Great Mouse Detective might regular cat to us is to mice the horrifying pet basically the equivalent of a pet dragon who eats to her credit-and in the final act of the movie, mice to keep them from foiling her master's turns into an escape. When Felicia thinks she's character in cinematic history-she ends up proving out she just jumped right into the territory of just got mauled to death-and even lost that pretty the mice, but...having a cat get mauled to death At number five, we have the early-movie deaths of Tarzan's Parents. While they manage these two faced a tragic end at the hands...or I get it-Sabor. Like "saber!" Like a saber-toothed and it also makes this death even more disturbing. can actually see their corpses in the background Next we move to the (funeral) bells of Notre Hunchback of Notre Dame. While the means others on our list, she earns herself a high died while desperately seeking help from it-the church. After narrowly escaping French law believing she has stolen goods on her, decides to via a fall down the stairs and a pretty brutal as it was, she died just after having her baby final moments as she fell further away from animal for the next couple of decades. this was one of the less physically painful The Bronze Medal of Brutality goes to Gazeem from on Jafar's behalf, he's one of presumably many task. Unfortunately for this small-time thief, the anything but a quick snack-and as a result, after swallowed him up. Unless caves have digestive disposed of Gazeem-but judging by his screams of But while his was certainly brutal, Bartholomew even less up for debate. For a movie that's there sure are quite a few brutal deaths stomach of all. During Ratigan's villain Bartholomew makes the mistake of calling him right? Unfortunately, easy mistakes are NOT made the next treat for Felicia. This scene does a most despicable villains yet, and it's made more Ratigan's other lackeys beg for their friend's standards, dang it-but Ratigan is unmoved, using those who disappoint him: being swallowed while in a state where he clearly has no But if we're going to talk about Disney scenes there's only one that can take the cake: General Brutality-and honestly, it isn't even close. I messed up-he finds a little girl's doll, studies where the village it came from must be-sickeningly doll. Considering the fact that we later see that utterly decimated village, it's safe to say his village and left no survivors, meaning that they woman, and child there-not just soldiers. Seeing helmet and sword in the ground is hard enough, but to it just...I don't think there's any other Disney and tragedy. It's one thing to see villains be aside from the heroic soldiers like Li Shang, this Not heroes, not villains-just people. Men, women, Yu had any shot at humanization before this, it this the darkest fate any non-main villain Disney