- [Andy] Apples. We've all had them, but did you know that there's more than one kind? In fact, there's 50 kinds. There's a lot more than that actually. But we got 50 apples today, and every one to tell and what's a bad apple. We're also going to hand out a crown for the apple of my eye. That's the best apple and a And I can already tell Let's get started. (calm music) The first apple, this one is a suncrisp. - [Brad] Ooh. - Okay. Little bit mealy. Not too much apple flavor, I think we have to put it as a bad apple. I wouldn't eat this if of these other apples. So first one, bad apple. Next apple, snapdragon. This one known for having whenever you buy it. Hmm. Oh my. This is a quality apple. Very juicy, distinct apple I'd imagine it'd be great This is a good apple. Ludacrisp, invented by Brick Ross. Move (bleep) get out the way, indeed. If it was bad, I was gonna say, &quot;Get back mother (bleep). I wouldn't call it ludicrous, like it's not outrageously crispy, but it's got a nice snap to it. I'm about to take another Relax, Andy. This is a good apple. The York, whoa! (chuckles) Known as the widest apple. And with the biggest of like a growth out there. That's what's going in my mouth. Whoa. Okay. A little dry, skin's a little tough. Flavor's really good. It's different. Tastes like a grapefruit. For sheer novelty, I'm gonna put it in the It's a little dry, the but very, very interesting The coy orange pippin is slightly orange, but Pippin, let's find out. Ugh! Ugh. - Here, here, here. - Ugh! I don't know what's coy or but what I can tell and it's dry and there's not much flavor. Bad apple. Cortland is rather an interesting look. It's got sort of a zebra very green to red. Let's see what's going on Ah. It's not dry but it's I don't like really soft apples. Like I could squish this Oh my God. I'm doing it. I'm doing it! I'm doing it. (laughs) I just crushed an apple with That's ugh, gross! What a horrible apple Will winesap save the day? How am I like, 10 for 10, throwing those up and catching them? I'm terrible at catching things. - [Brad] Don't jinx it. - Don't jinx it. Winesap has a really good but the flavor's off. It's very vegetable like, you know, just, it tastes like grass I'm not gonna eat anymore. Bad apple. Mutsu apple is green These are the two facts Hmm. Okay. All right folks. It's got It's tart, but it's juicy. And it's not like that really of green apples where you're feel it in your teeth, you know? Your teeth start to hurt. Maybe I just have sensitive Good apple, good apple. The northern spygold. Are What is this? This has the most hollow sound (calm music) I dunno, this is like the you know, neighbors grown and they'd be like, We have a wonderful harvest, And you eat 'em and you're This is good.&quot; It's not very good. Bad apple. Ida red. This looks like about as apple as an apple could possibly look, and tastes about as typical as an apple could possibly taste. This is like the prototypical I like apples. This is a Braeburn, I've heard of this guy before. Oh my holy god. Is this normal? - [Kendall] No. You just wanted to, - [Kendall] I wanted it - Give me a apple with an anus. Isn't that charming? (calm music) Whew! Tart, fresh, a little dry. But I would enjoy eating this and I think it would make so good apple, braeburn. My personal favorite and in the grocery store, honeycrisp. This is a great, versatile all around It's a great apple. You have to swallow multiple times to get all the juices down, you know? Am I right fellas? It's great for baking. It's great for eating. Honey crisp is a good apple and a contender for apple of my eye, but we can't award that 'til the end. But maybe give it a little asterisk. Pink lady, a notably I am a fan of pink And I know I'm gonna like it. This is probably not the It's a little dry, but like It's still good so I'm Pink lady is a good apple. Here we have the summer pippin, which does not fit in the This is the size of a small cantaloupe or a large baby's head. Unlike the other Pippin, This is a lot like the mutsu that is not as tart and This is a good apple. Over the river and through the woods to Granny Smith's, first one. Over the river and through the woods to Granny Smith's house we go. I'm not a huge green apple fan for eating, but they're obviously amazing for pies. And this is about as gold a standard as there is for pie baking. So it's definitely gonna Next up we have the Rhode Island greening. Whew! That was a close one. It's a green apple, but is it greening? Let's find out. Yeah. (upbeat music) It's a square. Not not great. Mealy, soft, it's like a green apple but it's mealier and softer. So it wouldn't be as good for pies and it's not so great for eating. This is a bad apple. Jonagold, I can't really think Help me out. - Jonah Hill. Jonah Hill, am I right? Canceled! This is the jonagold You have... - [Kendall] It's pronounced John a gold. - Mm, mm, mm. Really juicy, nice and sweet. A little bit of tartness to Wonderful, fantastic for the apple of my life, jonagold. Macintosh, I (bleep) talked this earlier and I completely forgot I was thinking of red delicious. This is a macintosh, which I cannot remember so I'm gonna go in blind, literally. - [Narrator] Andrew is - So this is definitely the but it's still a soft Sorry. Sorry, macintosh. There was a dream that was Rome and it shall be beautified? Rome beauty is the next It's another very typical looking apple. It's juicy but it's mealy It tastes like apple skin Not crazy about it. Somebody's clearly made a mistake because we have a golden russet apple which if I'm not mistaken, Let's see what's in here. This is a golden russet. If I bite into this and you guys, we're gonna have words. Surprising. Bad texture on the outside, but I think this might just It does have a very potato like skin. I'm really torn on this guy. Jonathan is a very shiny apple, I almost don't wanna eat it, but I want that shine inside of me. Oh, kind of torn in this Again, doesn't quite taste like an apple. I'd almost liken it to a grape. I'm not a big fan of this Very soft apple. Not enough to rescue it. Bad apple. Yeah, I'm at that Brooklyn now, I'm down in Tribeca, right next to De Niro but I'll be hood forever. Jay-Z's very own empire or for empire for short. Again, a very prototypical apple, a kind that you'd put on your Let's see what it tastes like. (upbeat music) Not a great flavor. Not juicy enough, mostly soft, bad apple. The gold rush, named for Rush Limbaugh's to his 50th wife. Speak ill of the dead! Oh (bleep) It's not very gold and in too much of a hurry, It's okay. It's very much a green apple. It's pretty tart. It's not juicy enough and it's a little too tart for my liking. It would make for a great baking apple. But overall, the gold rush is over, folks. Black twig is the name of this apple because there's a very green Very juicy. It's got a green apple-like flavor to it, but it's not too tart. Great texture. - [Kendall] They're said to be Andrew Jackson's favorite Apple. - Sometimes bad people like good things. Go to a police auction In spite of it being Andrew his favorite apple. I'm because it's a good apple. This is journalism, folks. Evercrisp is the name of this apple. This is very beautiful. I like the the starry but let's see what it tastes like. That's a good apple. Very beautiful to look at Very sweet, not even a but not overbearingly sweet. Good texture, juicy, good apple. Sweet sixteen! It's a felony to eat this. Weird name for an apple. It's a weird name for I don't care for it. It makes me feel like I'm I think I'll just skip this one. No. It is notably sweet. It's a little soft for my taste. It does have a unique flavor, almost like cherry like It's a good apple except The Baldwin. Is it Billy, Alec? Steven? - [Kendall] Hailey? The famous daughter? - Christ. I'm so old. (whimsical music) Soft, gross. It's not as soft as some of these guys, but it's soft and I don't Corte pendu plate. Literally none of these to name an apple. Well with a name like So I'm learning that apparently, you age these apples like fine wine and apparently they mellow with time. We don't have that kind of time so for now it's a bad apple. It's a bad apple. Ginger gold is the name of this apple. That was nice. That was It's like a red, delicious Oh, soft. Flavor's not bad. Juiciness is okay, but both the skin and the flesh are soft It's too soft. Bad apple. Fuji, named after the film, which is named after the mountain. It's a Fuji apple. We've But have we tasted them? Another very good prototypical apple. Really juicy, skin has more that kinda like grassy note. I'd call this a good apple. It's very straightforward, It's the kind of apple you feel like you That's the kinda apple I wanna vote for. Better bust out the tux 'cause we're headed for Very, very typical apple. Not too tart, decent It's a good apple. It's a good apple. This is nothing special. Nothing to write home about, You've seen the pink lady apple, but have you seen the It's a little guy, a lady, little lady. Says it's a lady. Tastes very fall, almost like literally like leaves. I mean my immediate that it's a bad apple. Sorry lady. Sorry ladies. Cameo apple, this one has a It is rather an interesting color. It's almost desaturated, if you will. Tart, distinct appley flavor. Good snap, good juice, good apple. Sweet ambrosia. What is ambrosia? I know it's ambrosia salad, Could you google ambrosia for us quickly? - Food of the gods. - Food of the gods! So what we're looking at here better be a Perhaps it's named after ambrosia salad because it's so darn sweet. There's not a hint of tartness to it. That being said, good It's a good apple. Good apple. Red delicious which if to one aspect of its name. I'll let you guess which one. 'Cause it's red, so Let's see if my memory serves me because I remember these That's fine. It's a perfectly fine apple. I thought these were terrible. - [Kendall] I've always hated - Lo and behold, it's not It's juicy, it's got decent flavor. It leaves like a matte kind of texture on my tongue, but it's not enough to disqualify it. It's a good apple. And this - [Kendall] Yeah. - That's got a sticker on it. I've heard that these are Well, I can think of no to eat it like a tab of acid. (whimsical music) - [Kendall] Maybe you can - Good thinking. (whimsical music continues) Ah, okay. So we'll find I'll let you know what Next up, the red devil which used to be a brand but now it's a proud, if splotchy apple. Oh. (gasps) (screams) What the hell? I thought I was bleeding. What is happening here? A red devil apple is nothing short of blood red in the center. It's not very good. Yeah it's soft. Not very juicy, fantastically Honestly it's pretty weird. At first I was charmed by this but now I'm feeling like, ugh. Sorry red devil, but you're a bad apple. Crimson crisp is the name of this apple. It's red and hopefully crispy because that's what it's called. So let's see what's happening. It's not too juicy, but it's Nice neutral flavor. It's a good apple. I like it. Next, golden supreme. I wouldn't call it golden. Well okay, this is a little Is it supreme? I wouldn't call it supreme but it is quite golden on the inside. It has golden flesh. It's not my favorite to and it would definitely It's got good firmness, good tart so I'm gonna call it a good apple. Don't we all have a scarlet crush? If we're talking about that scarlet, don't we all have a scarlet crush? This is big. Scarlet crush apple, however, looks startlingly Does it bear any resemblance Let's have a taste. Mmm. Oh Scarlet. (people laughing) Oh my. It's juicy, it's almost indistinguishable to the honey crisp, maybe a little bit more tart. And it's named after It's a good apple. Koru, a type of apple. (pensive music) Oh that's getting gruesome, the amount of colors and yeah, yeah. No, you don't care for - [Brad] I don't like it at all. - So this is a fine apple. I mean it's like, it's not but it's also not deep depressing me, which is really a feat. Most things do, so I'm gonna 'cause I would eat it, It's a good apple. Macoun, I have no idea Ooh, it's a rather striking It's normal. Oh but on the inside, it is ghostly white! Finishes a little grassy, Flesh tastes good, good It's a fine apple. It's a good apple. Golden cousin to the red delicious, golden delicious is the next apple. This is golden. This is as golden as a Delicious. Oh. It's golden. I wouldn't call it delicious. It is grainy. It's not Can I crush this one too? I can. If you can crush an apple with your human hands like then it's a bad apple. This is a bad apple. Jumping Jonah prince? - [Kendall] Jonaprince - [Andy] Jumping jonaprince. Jumping jonaprince, Batman! This is Nico's favorite apple, probably just 'cause of its name. (pensive music continues) This has gotta be the least This almost tastes like water so this is a bad apple. Sorry, Nico. The fall of man was said to begin when Eve ate the apple It is with that in mind that I have a feeling that's Read your Bibles, folks. (angelic music) Ugh. This is what caused the downfall of humanity, is this (bleep) thing? Yeah it looks just like It's an heirloom apple. It has the worst anus Take a look at that thing. I'm trying to get the light on it so you see how it's like a little moist. All right, so let's see Oh. Oh. Oh. It's awful. This is why we have the and therefore live every and repentance, every day, Also it's very, very soft, so soft to the point that No, I don't have the strength but this will probably. Not very good. Crabapple, hope you like seafood. (people laughing) Crabapples, they're not just for throwing at the nerds in school, like me. I had these thrown at Oh. Oh my (bleep) God. Oh my God! That is so bad! It's so dry, it's so grainy, it's so soft. It's everything I hate about a bad apple, and therefore is itself a bad apple. Hey, yo. Listen what I say. Oh, oh, snow. It's a red Do with that what you Ah, ah, ah. Ah, ah, ah, ah. Dried and grainy, but not as bad as the It's beautiful looking, but This sounds like a medical condition, the esopus spitzenburg. - [Kendall] Esopus. Esopus. - Esopus. Somebody was having fun the For such a complicatedly named apple, it's pretty milquetoast which is a complicated way It's just enough where So it's a bad apple. Sorry to the proud town Blushing golden, this is an out and see what it tastes like. It's golden. It is blushing a little bit. It's got a little blush It's golden, it's got a little blush. It's golden. It's got a little blush. Ow, I got it stuck in my tooth. Really got it, look at that. You see that? Look at how I'm never getting that out. It's not grainy enough but it's not like crisp and juicy and delicious enough for This is the most middle of the - [Kendall] Should Brad bite it? - Brad you wanna bite this? - I could bite, but I - Here you just, here. I Just as a human being, is this - [Brad] I like it. Okay, good apple. - [Brad] I'm happy about that apple. - The Brads have it. It's a good apple. Let's take a look at the roxbury russet. It is hideous! Look at I hate it! Ugh, ugh! It's good though. I think it's too grainy. It's too grainy of a texture to award it the good apple standing. So unfortunately, roxbury It's potato. It's a bad apple. Fittingly, the last apple It's the last apple I have Interesting colors we have going on here 'cause we have red, we have It's kind of like everything Yeah, dry, soft, granny, bad apple. Seek help. There you have it, folks, 50 different apples each Don't worry, we're gonna or perhaps several pies. But first, I have to name as the rotten apple, the And for me, there's no competition. The worst by far was also the This is how I know which one Crabapple sucked. I understand that this for making jams and jellies and that does not surprise me at all because I would rather eat my own hand. It's a little dramatic. I don't like it. It's dry, it's grainy, it's soft. It's juice-less, it sucks, it's bad. It's called crabapple, for god's sake. It's crap apple. It's a bad apple. This sucks. It's bad. The best apple that I had was the Jonagold apple. I can't remember which one it is, but Brad will put some footage over of me eating it right now, maybe in black and Cool. (laughs) That was a juicy, crisp, sweet yet tart, fantastic example of an apple. Really great job, whoever made I'm on your side unless you in which case I don't want (whimsical music)