You. Hello and welcome to today's I'm Melissa Caen. I'm a political and legal analyst. And your moderator for today's program. It is my pleasure to introduce He is an award winning journalist He's a long time and MSNBC, and a former senior editor He's one of the few journalists President Donald Trump's criminal trial and his latest book is American Reckoning Inside Trump's Trial and My Own. Mr. Alter, Welcome back to the club. Thanks so much, Melissa. You know, I'm I've been here for my four previous books. So it's great to be with you. The, you know, this book is, part trial diary. I was one of the only people in the Most of the other reporters And it's part, And then there's my development in becoming a journalist. Yeah, I noticed that this book As you point out, this is not your first book, to the heart than some of your your prior No, no question that my, my earlier books. So I wrote a book about FDR too, and a biography of Jimmy Carter that I lapsed into the first person. And this one is, is very, And I think whatever happens, whatever happens, I hope it gives people of what it felt like to, love democracy, about the good sense and, be, very focused on trying hold Donald Trump accountable in whatever So that's really the object of the of the book. And it it ends on a hopeful note. Well, a bit of, So if you've got a couple passages that demonstrate So the first one so this is from which I started And on the 16th of February, as I was, obtaining credentials, for this trial, I wrote, do I want to the, the entries I want to bring my life to cover this trial. In a funny way, it's not really up to me. I'm going to cover it because I have to. I'm compelled to, I have to. After Trump didn't lift a finger officers, the House speaker After Kevin McCarthy visited go and throw him a lifeline I have to after find me 11,780 votes. That tape from Georgia and Trump ruining the lives of election workers I have to. After Trump refused to return the nuclear secrets and promised to bring, quote, retribution I know he's on trial in New York criminal and must be stopped His crimes against decency and democracy that they blur together and numb us I have to slap myself in the face And I'll say, Melissa, in new Jersey to get into, And, so then I just very briefly a couple of paragraphs, And this is from, when Michael Cohen he was, obviously the key witness. But it's important to understand And the other witnesses So there was a mountain of evidence the jury to, convict him on 34 counts, That mountain of evidence Motions, decision about, the immunity portion of the case and, what the sentence will be if, if any. And I believe there will be some sentence. So I say, Michael Cohen is a cross between a Damon the Bulger Bono, the squat mobster Trump says Cohen is a rat. My family and I don't like that term in Amsterdam 30 years ago, most rat infested place in New York, Rats are a thing with altars, Until he slipped in 2018, Cohen wasn't just Trump's He was one of the biggest pricks Who can forget the tape Mac made of a 2015 call he had with Cohen, for as long as you're on Frigging instead of Cohen's idea of playing nice. So I think that gives you some idea and flavor And, and the I, you know, passion I sort of And, you know, much of the book was most of the book was written, in, five weeks And I had spent five years on my, So that that gives you a sense sort of an atom had been split inside me, releasing all kinds of energy As somebody who's 67 years old, and it was born of a, intense feeling that I think a lot of What the color and the detail that you bring, because The trial wasn't televised is Your observations and the way you paint And I definitely want to get to, to a couple of other really, But before we sort of dive in, today, November 18th and, you know what, there was a guilty verdict back in May, bring us up to to where we are today So Trump has introduced many, many motions to dismiss this case. And, but his election, you know, presented some new things And the prosecution filed a motion, asking for until tomorrow the 19th, to respond on how the judge should weigh calls the competing interests Quote, the office think they really are competing interests You know, jury And, the president, by, appealing this sentencing. Maybe you'd have to talk, as lawyers at most, So it's not like, the, you know, concern that the Supreme Court tied up with lawsuits that's at the root And and, their regrets over, civil suits And so it's not at all clear to me that, in fact, I don't believe that judge Marsh on will throw this out based on the Supreme Court And I also don't believe that Judge Merchan will, So I don't know for sure but I think that he will move forward And my prediction is and this is not really by journalists, you know, And it's like predicting a stock you know, my prediction is that he will sentence him to, probation since he's a first time offender. It could have been jail time, Harris, I think it would have been That that's not really likely at this point, based on what, for contempt of court And he said, you know, Mr. Trump, I will jail you But, the complexities of jailing And so my my sense is that he'll he'll get that he will, start serving, on January 21st, 2029. If he, if he's unable to get it removed on appeal and, on whether a New York appellate court, Supreme Court would throw this out. I just remind people about the Supreme Court because they've But in all 60 of the cases election, Supreme Court And there are does that where there were rulings four years ago or in some cases ruled against, So this idea that they're, stamp is just not right on the That doesn't mean they might not, this time, find a reason to do so. But it's it's not a sure thing Well it as That is correct. He cannot pardon himself. And for, for the for the Supreme Court to inner fear in a state conviction basically to, you know, overturn that conviction. That happens sometimes, They have to have Certainly after a jury trial finding there's some higher level of respect as opposed to sort of a technicality once the juries rendered a verdict So and we already did get about what I call I mean, when starting when Judge Marshall said Mr. Trump, sit down, and then every time Trump he would have to kind of lumber, or a little trouble and honor the jury as they came in This was one of the most inspiring parts for me, is that the former president, who had never been held to account for Since his father died 30 years ago. He had to stand up And they would march in just a few feet and out of the courtroom. Almost never. And only one of them ever looked at him. They were soldiers for justice. They they were there to do their job. They were extraordinarily responsible Of course, now, for understandable to write books or anything, The only record of this trial, understandably would fear for their So the inspiring things that took place people feel that, you know, if that, you know, He was convicted and he was, brought to heel every day When you And to think of somebody like Vladimir and standing up and having to be quiet or, based on the directions of a judge And so there is something incredible or even president elect, you know, having It really brings into focus the exceptionalism. Yeah. And, and I think that people think Right. Oh, I know, She testified this was high drama. I mean, this is a woman, a very, sharp businesswoman on end from the stand, You know, he can't even drink a Diet Coke. It's water only in the courtroom. And, you know, so he just has to sit 23 days. And it started with jury selection, where, you know, in trying to get jurors would quote back these, these, where they would say, you know, and Trump, it just had to sit there So, I mean, there was a even if, you know, even if this case is entirely thrown out, there was a rough justice Well, because as I was reading the book I was remember, it's so funny There are so many things. I was like, oh yeah, I remember that, because every day just seems like a whole that even for you even going back were you reminded of things that you things that were important or during jury selection Yeah. And, you know, And so I thought it was important pretty much everything he did, I'm not talking about what he did as much as just his many brushes with, you know, civil accountability. I mean, the judge who, committed, what was defined as rape even though it was a civil case, you know, so I don't have detailed but in that case, in the Carroll case, you know, I happened to, know the key witness, in that case, on each and Carol's behalf. And, you know, it was like being on the stand So I have some of these other cases is me contextualizing him as a president mostly in my years at Newsweek, nine of the last ten American presidents, all except Reagan, either And I, I bring up almost all of them Well, your book came out before the election, and of course, since You wrote in the book in the introduction, this book will be in the tradition which chronicles what it felt like to after he overcame a criminal conviction Now that Trump has won reelection, what are your thoughts whether this is not no longer Yeah. So, I actually have a section of the book And I mentioned that, been really reluctant to go there almost like a cliche, but it's Trump you know, dinner with Nazis or saying, you know, to John Kelly that, you know, at least Hitler had loyal generals, They tried to kill him, keeps bringing up Hitler, and it's General and General Mark Milley who brought up so I don't I'm fine with going there Now, whether he ends up and whether it really is, like, William Scheer's Berlin diary, So democracy It has not been destroyed. And is future is very much about us. And to give a sense of that, I, I make reference, to, something that Franklin at the end of his first 100 days, And after the passage and we were trying to come out Americans and the decal had a blue eagle on it. And underneath it said, we do our part. So I think the question that we all have what is our part And for me, it's been around witness I did with Richard Nixon that was my role bearing witness, I covered the trial and continue You know, it might be, with organizing and and contributing, or, supporting investigative journalism, which can have an accountability function, not just the federal level, Because if you can build democracy in the States by by staying active, then you can build or contribute Trump's encroachments on our democracy, So the point is, we can't, approach this with dread. We can't check out. Listen, we I understand why you know, I want to just quickly tell you the story that I open the book with. And it involves my late father, who was a college student at Purdue University And he was having a good time in college. You know, in the 40s, like a swell convertible. And he had a girlfriend get to choose when he left home to fight for democracy, history chose him. And so he enlisted. He flew 31 harrowing combat He was shot down over Hungary. And George H.W. Bush, he did the same thing after Pearl Harbor. He enlisted and he fought in the Pacific And one of the things, you know, One of my regrets I sort of in print, when Bush said that waiting to be, picked up, eventually was by submarine, that he was I was like, yeah, yeah, sure. I'm a little bit ashamed of that now, who I disagreed with on a lot of things, and he answered the call So none of the rest of us have to risk Bush. We just have to do what we can to do our part. I was a poll worker on Election Day, and I got assigned to a poll in San Francisco terms really far from where I live, not the biggest city, And I just remember and then I thought, The least I can do is go across town Really, that race doesn't mean you know, but you do have to stay engaged. I know that's become kind of a platitude, which I believe it is, which I believe everybody listening today then you have to act and you can take You get your energy back but then at a certain point, think about what you can do and that can take What did you do? Did you grab a bottle of brown liquor or did you. After. Or what did you do Well, I went on, the Lincoln Project, Graham and, with Bill Kristol and Sarah Longwell and we just started the process what it meant. And then I have an old, a Substack And I decided, to wait a week and kind of marinate I wrote a pretty long piece ten reasons I'm not a believer to, to most events, this this will sound a little bit, like the grandfather story than it is that on election day, for our two granddaughters old granddaughter and I was dozing because I knew and I kind of sense that she wasn't. And I opened my eyes with the biggest smile on her face, And it was almost like an epiphany for me. And I realized after the election, like, I just have to think about her in my own disappointment Oh, that's really lovely. That's a great grandpa story. Yeah. Well, you know, one of the things in the post-mortems, since the election is, to run for a second term and the decision I mean, there's all sorts of speculation president, Biden I wanted to point out I did go check. I see this is this is from January 2023. This is your article in the New York And it's it's really about and, I had forgotten myself about the documents you know, Corvette, his right, But you were saying, you know, out of the classified documents issue And then at the end, you say, And this is January 2023, and you You were pretty much pilloried but you were at first to say, hey, Well, I think there were a and I wrote it a few other times, I wrote, you know, an intervention, I did sense that it was disastrous Preposterous almost on its face to have She would have been the end of his, And, you know, I reflected on some of my conversations no president should be over 80. And I thought it was selfish, committed a crime with these documents Unlike Trump, the crime was Trump So I didn't think the two cases But for a lot of other reasons. And then on the night of the debate and wrote a short article for The New York to throw the process open what they call blitz primary But it took Biden another, three weeks, more than three weeks And that was only because of the political And so I tell this story of how Nancy Pelosi did that. And the the process that she undertook it would be obviously more historically Now it's more of a footnote, an interesting example of the way And, of course, if I think that, that instead of, losing by are carried, it's going to lose by like, Biden would have lost by 6 or 8 points. I don't think anybody disagrees with that. Except maybe somebody who works for Joe leg to stand on. Given that how much the association with Biden hurt Harris? Well, Pelosi And, I don't want to spoil it too much, the story was that she said something Right. And that's what she, you know, What did you say to Joe Biden? She goes, I just told him But there was something so, Like there was something That was a little bit different Without, the, some of the very colorful I'll give you one like, in action, the men being Clinton, Obama, you know, somebody very close to her said, she was wondering why were hers But she didn't actually say, She she went and secretly to the white We've known each other a long time. I just want to listen to you shouldn't make any recommendation And then that opened a channel and then she pursued an outside strategy. So she went on Morning Joe and said, made his decision yet, since he had said, you know, only God And and it wasn't really true Maybe he left a little tiny So but the rest of the, quite colorful details Well, and you also talk about the role You have these two women on either side you make decisions I mean, Jill She was an excellent first lady He just wasn't the right candidate. And he's never been a good candidate. I've covered him since 1988. I know him, interviewed him many times, He kept finishing fifth and sixth in the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire And Jill Biden will not be well regarded by history, unfortunately. So in 1952, Bess Truman advised Harry Truman He was entitled to run again, Lady Bird Johnson advised Lyndon Jill Biden did not make that decision. That same decision, if she had, a governor of either sex, that person would now I'm convinced of it, that governor would not be burdened and all the other, weights of, of the Biden administration on, on Kamala But she was just burdened down by this. And, that would not have been a problem, for people to vote you know, Clinton and Reagan and, Bush Jr, you know, they all were governors and Jimmy Carter did. America likes governors, when they're voting for president. I think there was a false assumption. There was nobody out there. But that's what primaries are for. Somebody would have emerged, they would have been a very strong nominee the, country or off the left edge, because both Sanders and Warren And I don't think that broken out progressive would have been the nominee. It would have been somebody else, another governor or somebody. And that's all in the could. I should have a category, and there's But all of that will factor into and what they did. Well, yes, a very bittersweet I told you so on, on that maybe preferred not to be right But I do want to, to turn to the trial we got a couple of audience questions But first question is, well, or shocked you while watching the trial? So, I think, and this is, Well, I was surprised, by how much of the time That that caught me by surprise. It started early, but I thought, you know, I thought, well, okay, you know, Or at least had his eyes closed by my count, including critical testimony by Michael Cohen and and others. And, you know, part of it is no Diet Coke, but, just that he wasn't used to getting up as early And he's a night owl. I don't know what the explanation is, I was also really surprised by what a poor defense they put on. And it was led by Todd Blanch, who's now going to be the, He will be confirmed, unlike, gates. And so Blanche is a smart enough guy, but who's very inexperienced, who had only tried to portion of two cases he made a series of dumb mistakes and the dumbest, which I think he did, he did when the state rest, The Trump had a decision. Do we put on any case? And we knew by then that he wasn't going to testify going to take the fifth. But we sort of thought that he would not call any witnesses Look, they haven't proven their case And we're not even going to make an assumption that they they have we're But they ended up calling who is a Rudy Giuliani buddy. And, he had testified, during the second on Capitol Hill about what So Trump Right. So he went into, with one exception of a very, very minor And from the start, he was so arrogant that he thought he was the judge. And he would say from the witness chair It was nuts. And then he would he would say, He'd say to the, prosecutor. Yeah, he was the judge. And then he started And the judge dismissed the jury, are you trying to stare me down? And, and Costello didn't really answer him, And then the judge said, clear the court, which the lawyers and former judges hanging out with, they'd never seen it They'd never seen a judge clear So there was bedlam in the courtroom Like, what's going on here? And the Clear the court. Go, go, go. You know, and. I did some TV stuff. It's one of these And so meanwhile, like, are yelling at the judge, This isn't fair. We protest, and, and then the judge, not sure he should have done this, okay, everything that I say so the press will have an opportunity And then he just tongue and just basically read him the riot act he would hold him in contempt of court And, and, it was, you know, it was very, Not as dramatic as that last moment you know, guilty, guilty, guilty 34 times. Yeah. And in his Irish brogue, And, you know, really compelling stories in my, in my 40 years in this business. And this was right up there Well, and I love the detail You couldn't have your cell phones out, Yeah. And so while. That. Was wow, that was really that's another So as long as you didn't weren't seeing folk and there were guards staring at you all the time to make sure So, for instance, when, reporter who's became kind of well known lately I think during jury selection, and took a picture, and she was So they were really, really tough about. She was in the overflow room at the time, From the trial. They're really tough about that. But they had these rules as long as you weren't of the of the defense because then they thought you might see something that related to legal strategy but you could use them where you could see Trump from the front, And I spent a lot of time looking at juror the great hope that, the Trump team had. He sort of looked a little Trumpy, something that he said in jury selection Actually, what he said was he monitored Truth Social Social on Twitter So they they were engaged But there was concern So I would like And a couple times he stare back at me Like, I'm not an animal in the zoo. And I'm like, sorry, but I can say that. But yeah, I didn't feel like I, but that didn't lead to me Well, you got to pass the time, too, But to be a juror where people are sitting you know, sort of with binoculars Wild. It's also I mean, they're seeing all these presidential candidates, because they all came in. There were red ties, you know, in the front row JD Vance was there, the vicar. I'm Swami. I could go down the list. People from the hill. And so the juror, the jurors But I do believe that they were they took And I could tell that they made when they were deliberating, they wanted to hear who had been the head I think, pretty sleazy guy. But his testimony, was, as like a well-tailored hyena, devastating to Trump. And but it was very early in the trial. And so, you know, six weeks later, the jurors wanted to make sure that they understood So they ask it to be reread And then they also wanted to hear they were complicated. And so they did take their, There's part of the testimony, by Hope Hicks, who was Trump's director, that under the Supreme Court will probably be But there was so much other evidence that it's not like one of those cases exempted from, consideration is stricken from the case. And so I don't think I could be wrong, will dismiss decision in the immunity case. How would probation work I mean, I don't how would that A former president hearing. The president with an ankle monitor, Forward former president. So they can't there's no way that he's going to serve any sentence of any kind So the the options are, you know, a friend of mine, merchant send him to Rikers Island It won't interrupt the transition And, you know, Allen Weisselberg, who Trump's, chief Organization, And in another case involving Weisselberg, I think he still is. He was during that the hush money trial. So it's not and and many people where they found that, you know, quite was convicted of That's, And none of it can be applied. After January 20th of next year for four years. The courts are pretty clear on that. So, this would be what they call There's no statute of limitation In fact, After his appeals are exhausted. And if they rule against him on appeal I'll take a couple of years to play out. And, and the sentencing is upheld on appeal, probably not have an ankle bracelet, you know, as a former president, he would have to report to a probation finish his, sentence. Yep. To serve his sentence. He already. This is little known after the conviction. When you're a convicted felon, with a probation officer, which he did, It wasn't a matter of public record, with a probation officer That have happened in, in, late, June, after sometime, sometime in June, So sometime in the month of June, and nothing about it ever came out. Well, Okay, on the rotation, you know, and you have to go to renew That was in preparation where this court officer, technically called a probation officer you know, state of mind, then writes a memo to the judge, But what happened was the Supreme Court And Judge Merchan then ruled that he would when it was supposed to Well, and that looks like Jack Smith is not going to pursue That case is that. Yeah. And now this is the final remaining one. Is the Georgia election interference case the state Court of Appeals put it on hold while they were trying to figure out And so we don't really know So the point is, this case, as kind of weird and wild as it was, that he ever sort of sits for and deals with criminally, in the criminal context. That's the likelihood. But he could re-offend as president. And if his track record is And so if those were part of his unofficial duties, you know, he could conceivably be subjected But I think you're right this will be the only form and the criminal justice system It's quite possible that he'll be severed who will be prosecuted But he And so I think you'll see going to take a long time She made a mistake in having an affair slowed things down. It's that's a kind of an iffy thing. They also Trump can go into federal court There's he has a number of legal. It's easier to stop a trial before it what is the situation with the hush money And speaking of election interference, I mean, one of the things I think people What came out, a lot of stuff came out at trial This was an effort So we all know about his efforts in 2020. But this was a conspiracy to to affect the outcome of the 2016 election. And with a lot of colorful, in some cases Well, in your book, you seem convinced what had just come out about the Access if this had come out when initially up, without the hush money payment, But given that given and there was still a reelection of Donald You still believe that dissuade, That's a very good point. I mean, you know, his I could shoot But, you know, Hillary won And remember, after Access Hollywood, a bunch of Republicans And Trump said, we found out in the trial It was locker room talk. If in the, couple of weeks if instead of the story if it had been about Stormy Daniels and saying this was not locker room we had this affair, and, you know, is his wife, you know, and then his wife was pregnant when he actually When he had sex with Stormy Daniels, Karen McDougal, So if that at all come out And remember, And if there'd been at sort of a double despite the Fifth Avenue idea, But we'll obviously never know for sure. And, you know, his the story and and why, you know, without illusions, And I now realize I had more illusions about the, good sense I thought I did, and that obviously was was reinforced But one of the questions here at some of the voting groups that heavily over their participation So it's important to remember that heavily is it's a very good question, but so, Trump did one point better And he did significantly better That was really, I think, huge. But, in most areas, And so they're now up for grabs. And this is one of the big stories And there are all kinds of reasons why, but I, I did not I knew there was going to be some erosion in the Latino vote, but I didn't realize I was struck by the comments, of a, Allentown, Pennsylvania I was Latino after the election, how he got call after call from, male listeners saying that was just a cultural thing. They just didn't think that a woman could And, you know, my reaction just let a Jewish woman president and they voted for Hillary Clinton and his response to that was, his listeners said they were voting because they had she had Bill behind her, So I don't know how much of a factor I think a lot of it blended into the white vote the Irish-American vote, and, and other ethnic, voting blocs in the 20th century, they just eventually And I think that's now And it's wild card. But anybody who says this was it just wasn't, it just means that, Latino voters are up for grabs. Black voters, understandably, do not want And, Democrats are going to have to rather than relying And, and, you know, there is a my book is called American Reckoning. And I talk about Trump's and my own reckoning and the reckoning that the American people And I think there's a fourth reckoning, And that will take place, And it's going to be fascinating I thought the fact that San Francisco, you know, has a new mayor, is an interesting sign in itself. Politics is always changing. And, you know, I think you can discern in the country as a whole and a shift And we'll see how that plays out. But it also sometimes cuts a lot of people feel that on behalf of working people it might have broken She did have critical things but what populism wasn't So it might be that progressive of a boost from this. I do think there's going to be on some of these cultural it hurt. It hurt. Harris. What, you know, and it's the trans community exposed to this kind But the truth is, it hurt badly. Demagoguery does work. And that ad that ended she Harris, President Trump is for you. They put well over $100 And they were effective. I you know, I live in San Francisco. And even I saw the ad and I thought, Would you run this year? What it What a total waste of money. We're you know, we all know where the 55 You're going. You know, I was wondering that as well. But what they were doing was, I mean, I think the Democrats now because they were expecting to pick up a few seats in New York and California. I got two, and in New York, to be determined, but nobody believes And part of that did so much better than expected. And part of that these ads nationally But for people who were out in Nevada or Arizona or calling for a ground game, there's been a lot of There's been a lot of wrong punditry Actually, it did a lot of good because Harris lost by a much smaller than she did in non And as a result, in purple states as a result, you we're going to have a 47 Republican majority instead of a 5743 if people hadn't gotten involved in, in, in this ground game in 57, 43, Democrats to minority And now this is a hole And and part of it, as a result people put into the Harris campaign, Well, are you concerned at all that, there's an easy path here, but there's there's a path here but the royal you become, And then that sort of brushes over that is needed in this moment some donors are calling for, instead of doing reflect that doesn't seem to have happened Are you, versus just sort of, you know, gearing up I'm not confident Melissa. But but I do think that, you know, introspection is necessary and, you know, I would, recommend that, people consider moving away from identitarian ism, identity politics which the Democrats have done of different groups, both interest groups, racial, ethnic groups, that this is no longer really And I think Harris made great strides. You know, her convention But in 2019, she filled out this questionnaire That was disastrous. And I don't see why, Democrats should ever fill out They can answer, on, you know, issues specific ways as possible. But these yes no questions are simplistic and they're harmful. And I you know, I never say yes or no. I mean, that's it's not just hostile. It's kind of stupid. And we need to have And I think Democrats But I do want to say, I think that I mean, You know, maybe she should have done from Biden and but, in general, she ran a first rate campaign And there's a lot to learn You know, when somebody loses, people tend to think, oh, You know, that wasn't There was a lot that she did. Was The Democrats can can build on I think my, my main recommendation to Democrats I talk about growing up as a Democrat And, you know, I met Martin Luther King, came to my house My parents were really active Democrats My mother became the first woman elected So I was steeped in Democratic politics, politicians. And I guess my recommendation would be to eliminate a characteristic that is too common all over both parties. But I think especially in umbrage taking offense, you know, if you want to win, virtue signaling, the Overton Window, They're to win so that you can And so to do and smarter and not lead with their chin. And a lot of times that are just not politically popular outside of the Bay area. And I hate to say that, like, you know, and so, Just to give a quick I support the ideas behind that there needs to be But if it's been called reform, the police instead of defund the police, you know, we would be in a better place nobody there was a congressman who lost in New York he had embraced that concept of defund that ran ads against him on this. So Democrats just have to be smarter or less more tolerant of dissenting views. So Democrats are for tolerance. They also have to be tolerant of people maybe they don't always use and it just be a little bit more forgiving and inclusive in a larger sense, and not applying litmus tests the Democratic Party Well, I do want to point out, She did skip some questions. She she did. Yeah. But she. Got to consider that question because she. Skipped all of them. Just said, I'd be happy to comment She had an area for comment. And, you know, she did that sometimes But not not the not the yes no thing. Because people first of all, when it comes to legislation and You really shouldn't It depends on how the bill is written, and sort of be asked like these questions that might relate to future decisions, You know, if I were interest groups, I understand why, for their own interest, I don't really understand A lot of questions didn't have anything to do There's no fundamental right to get elected surgery That's not a fundamental right You can say it's the right thing to do, but it's not in An ACL, you kind of. Right. So people you know, where to push, where I'm not saying they should stop pushing, And I think there are a number of including AOC, There is growth. It's possible, you know, what, And that's a process that I think constituencies of the Democratic Party, however, well-motivated And many of these issues And it's it's it's sort of matching. Skepticism and idealism. So you stay skeptical of received wisdom, of easy answers, of umbrage and, and also, you know, stay idealistic. And that's all that I can that's all I, I can bring to the party, And, everybody else can figure out their ways Well, I do want to. We got time for one more question. I just wanted to ask you, you tell a story in the book you tell several, beating his reelection issue had already come up the part of the book is called And it's about him saying, hey, They'll get it right. And then you wrote, I'm no longer have the time, And you talk about how, yeah. So this that we, we haven't talked about yet. So, in 1998, on the worst day of Clinton's presidency, when his grand jury testimony, or lack thereof, with Monica Lewinsky, And that evening, I snuck into a reception They were in town for the UN, and Hillary was chilling, And he was very effusive, And I said, hey, hold up, Mr. President. And he said, You know, I was at the U.N. today and the, the one of the Latin President, you're lucky when they stage a coup d'etat, And he said, I'm going to win And he did, which never happened before because of the reaction And then he leaned in I wrote an article about it But think about it differently He said, John, you know, with enough time the American people always get it right. And even then, I knew it wasn't always. But I thought that But the key part of what he said was with enough time and information, and that's what's changed since 1998, is that we now We have a very powerful right wing media. We have left the sovereignty of fact, and we're in a very dangerous place common set of facts, from Walter Cronkite saying, you know, You know, November 18th, 1976, you know, we're a long, long way from that. And and we haven't figured out what we're going to do about that. But it's dangerous such a steady diet of disinformation And I plan in the next couple of years to spend, trying to figure that one out. Well, when you do write a book about it at the Commonwealth Club and World Alter, author of American You can pick up a copy Thank you again for joining us. Viewers, listeners, and of course, Mr. Alter. We'll see you next time Thanks, Melissa.