After detecting an unusual wobble in space, our own Milky Way--the massive stellar black is located about 2,000 light-years away, Despite clickbait headlines, this distance to our solar system. In fact, 2,000 light-years light-years. So it's safe to say this In fact, Gaia BH3 isn't even the closest black which lurks a bit nearer at what sets Gaia BH3 apart is not its the most massive stellar black hole This revelation came through data from which was launched in 2013 with the mission to were reviewing the Gaia observations, they noticed The movement suggested the star was 33 times more massive than the sun. To put which weighs about 2 x 10^30 kilograms. That is Now, imagine the combined mass of 33 suns, in space. That's the staggering it bends the fabric of space itself, creating Apart from the central black hole in the of known stellar black holes in our galaxy. And Further observations from the Very Large and the star's orbit, which circles Measurements of BH3's companion star found no the cataclysmic supernova that likely birthed formed long before it trapped the companion The companion star itself is an ancient first 2 billion years after the Big Bang. opposite direction of many stars in suggests it was part of a small galaxy that merged Now the team of researchers hopes their the colossal black hole and uncover more of rest of the Gaia data to be released in late 2025. gravitational waves in faraway galaxies. 100 million stellar black holes in the powerful forces they generate, they can don't have companion stars that reveal their Stellar black holes form by the gravitational stars die. They are the remnants of supernova of gamma ray burst. These black holes are also most massive black hole in our galaxy that On average, stellar black holes in our mass of the Sun. Before the discovery of with 21 solar masses. While Gaia BH3 is by astronomers' standards, it is similar in Scientists think that stellar black holes stars. These ancient stars, primarily composed basic elements--tend to lose less mass throughout stage for the formation of larger-mass black Astronomers hadn't been able to find evidence metal-poor stars, until they found Gaia BH3. formation of black holes is an inevitable nuclear fuel sources. Depending on the mass a compact star such as a white dwarf, a neutron if the core's mass surpasses what is known neutron-degenerate matter, it will continue to The precise upper mass limit of a neutron a black hole is not fully understood. black hole could exist of any mass. But there is a of matter must be to form a black hole. There are holes with mass less than a few times the mass they are most likely primordial black holes. a binary star system made up of a giant star and that this companion is the smallest-mass with a mass of 3.3 solar masses and To put this extreme density into perspective, mass of about 2 nonillion kilograms. That is So now imagine more than one million into a sphere just 19.5 kilometers across. This nature of black holes. Demanding further There is observational evidence for two other Intermediate-mass black holes, located and supermassive black holes, which reside at The process by which supermassive black but one theory suggests it happens when At the Galactic Center of the Milky Way lies the Situated approximately 26,000 light-years times the mass of our Sun. Its immense gravity which itself weighs as much The angular size or apparent diameter of 52 million kilometers. While its Schwarzschild imagine a dark sphere with a diameter containing the mass of 4.3 million suns. That's But how do these cosmic giants grow so big? In 2004, a team of astronomers reported the black hole, orbiting only 3 light-years 1,300 solar masses is within a cluster support to the idea that supermassive smaller black holes and stars. comparison to the true king of size of This is considered one of the highest mass of all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy and 15,300 times more massive than Sagittarius A*. radius of 1,300 Astronomical Units (about more than 40 (43.3 AU) times the The mass of 64 billion suns is humongous mass, TON 618 may fall into a new The Universe is truly mindboggling Thanks for watching.