God was very kind to me when I was 17 years Something came alive. I can almost pinpoint the class. It was Mrs. Clanton's Class in English. Something came alive that has never died. I was already walking with Jesus, and so it It was an awakening of the wonder and the its outcome for eternity, no second chances, in a test - one life and then eternity. In 1964, we had a high school literary magazine mediocre poem in it. And the quality of the poem makes no difference it, the burden of it is what grips me because the sense of I've got one life, one life, So that poem was published and in it there's It's written from the perspective of being I'm 17 years old when I'm writing it. It's called the lost years, and in the verse, Long I sought for the earth's hidden meaning. Long as a youth was my search in vain. Now as I approach my last years waning, And everything in me in those days toward never, never, never happen, come to the end figure it out. I don't know what it's about, just coasting, desperately trying to be happy while not thinking. Oh, don't let me think about what this is to have one life. Don't let me think about that. I just want to do the next thing and hope I don't want to come to the end that way. Then that burden and sense of the weight and ever. I still think, "What have I got left?" I don't know what I've got left - a This would be a great place to go. It's cool. Twenty years - my dad was 87 when he passed That's 22 more years. I don't know. I just know one thing. Don't waste it. This is just all you've got and then the And that's all you've got - just one So there arose in me this tremendous sense A lot of people get worked up with the "where important. But to me it's only important for the "where I want to know purpose. I want to know design. I want to know what am I trying to do. Where I came from, if that's relevant for But mainly I just want why. You know, the Germans have woher and wozu. We just have why. Woher is why meaning "why did this happen" And wozu is "why, what's the purpose?" What's the point of it all? That's the one. I'm a wozu guy. I want to know where am I heading and what's So purpose, I want to know why the universe? Why color, sound, love, hate, evil, good, art, beauty, mosquitoes? Mosquitoes, I want to know why? Laughter, marriage, disease, war, me, you, That's the biggest question for me. I've got an hour with you, why? Why? What should happen here? I go into the pulpit with that question every What should happen here? What's the big point of this message and Why are you at this conference? What do you want to happen forever? What ripple effect do you want to come from So that burden, that wonder, that weight came go away. Why do I exist? And God was very kind to me because in the College and three of them at Fuller Seminary, all the big pieces fell into place, and they've And I am so fortunate. Some of you need some big pieces put in place It's never too late. But for me, God was so kind to me that from And all I've been doing since then is trying a fast reader and I'm not a comprehensive I'm an analytical guy who can handle the I can't do much else. So I just want the big questions to stay central. I want to push on them with all my might. I want to squeeze and squeeze and squeeze of the big things. And that's what I would commend to all of Let me stress for you what I stressed in the I said to them, "You know," - these not, same thing applies. You don't have to know, I said, and I say of things for your life to make a huge difference. And I'm talking to the older folks, retired, You don't have to know a lot of things. I don't know a lot of things. The older I get the less I know, and that's It's just because I'm aware of more and to work hard not to care about that, lest what I know. But you do need to know a few great things for them with all your might and die for them. The people who make a durable difference, intentionally. I'm thinking of just your average grandmama, in this room. You won't have a famous global difference, In order to have a durable difference in the have to know a lot of things. You have to be mastered by a few things, a If you want your life to count, if you want you want to give yourself to a few great things. You don't have to have a high IQ. You don't have to have a high EQ. You don't have to have good looks or riches. In fact, riches will almost certainly get Jesus said. You don't have to come from a fine family. That too can get in the way. You don't have to go to fine school. You don't have to go to any school. But you have to know a few great, majestic, set on fire by them. That's what makes a life count. So I'm going to mention three of those things that I've just been working on the rest or to push down, down, down, and their application of life and culture. So three discoveries that will define the sovereign, transcendently pure, - those Sproul's work will know what I'm talking incomparably beautiful, all-knowing, all-wise, infinitely valuable, all-satisfying God. There is a God like that - He exists - whose in all history, in all culture is to display enjoyment of His redeemed people. That's discovery number one, a long sentence. Shorten it down. There is a great holy God, who means to be There is a great holy God, who means to be Sometimes rhyme helps people remember. He means to be known truly and treasured duly. He means for light to shine and heat to boil You know I'm sure being at this conference times in the Old Testament, and it comes from Exodus 3:14, Moses says to God, "When they what shall I tell them?" And God says, "Tell them I AM sent you. My name is I AM." And I just spent all my life trying to figure there is a being who identifies Himself as Deal with it. I simply am. I had no beginning. I will have no ending. You're not. I depend on nothing. Everything depends on Me. I am defined by nothing. I define everything. I am controlled by nothing. I control everything. I am everything. You can spend a lifetime just coming to terms That He is changes everything, doesn't it? I mean, just everything changes if you live there. And the universe is like a peanut in His pocket. Only that's way too big of an analogy for So I meet this God. He's just coming alive, and I know beyond I mean some things you just know, right? You know if my life is going to have a purpose isn't wasted, He's got to tell me what He's got to define it. There's no way I can come up with this in existence that I'm going to say, "I think You're kidding. He's God. You are absolutely dependent on Him for everything, your life? Wake up. Wake up. He's God. [applause] So I with the help of Dan Fuller at Fuller Which God Created the World, one of the top to me what the purpose of life is. God designed the universe and created it and it to consummation in order - and I'll of creation, all redemption, all history, the everlasting and ever increasing enjoyment So getting God's purpose right for God became for me, and that order is all important - God's What's Your design for the universe? I'm a little part of it. That must be Your design for me. It has been a life defining, ministry defining God's purpose is. I suppose this has emotionally gripped me I don't know why that is. It's just the way I'm wired, I suppose. That God's purpose for the universe is radically I can't leave. I can't escape. And I find it exhilarating. And with some sorrow we say this is a fault It's a fault line that divides families, Either people find God's God-exalting purpose angered by it. Very few people are neutral once they hear For me, this has been the central issue theologically I was reading an article in First Things this and he divides us up into traditionalists I didn't even know that was a word. And the meliorists are post-modern, post-conservative, of names attached to them. And one of the issues, he said, characterizing Enlightenment bifurcation between the mind And I'm thinking, what! What bifurcation? And of course, I know what he's talking When those things are divided and you become church, you're going to lose a generation. There's just no doubt about it. You're going to lose me. This issue of God's God-centered purpose and emotionally central. It has been the key to the life of the mind revelation and the all-pervading exhilaration. To this day, 40 years later since those 17 day, God's God-exalting purpose for the I love to think about this. I sit at my desk preparing for talks like I love it. I just sit there, yes, yes, oh, let me say I just love to think about God's Godness, And then you go to the Bible, and you find "Bring My sons from afar and My daughters I created for My glory. I made the whole house of Israel cling to name, a praise, and a glory. Our fathers rebelled against the Most High name's sake that He might make known His For My name's sake I defer My anger. For the sake of My praise I restrain it for For My own sake, for My own sake I do it. For how should My name be profaned, and My What do you think Isaiah means for us to feel -- Uh, that's boring. That's a megalomania. - I don't think so. I think He means us to soar after we've "Father, the hour has come. Glorify Thy Son, that the Son may glorify What a conspiracy of the Son and the Father. I'm going to glorify you now, so that You in You. So glorify Me that I might glorify You. We'll do it together, Father. We'll team up and make the universe have He comes on that day to be glorified in His believed. So it's gotten clearer and clearer and clearer redeems, rules in order to put His glory on But in that first discovery, that long sentence of it. Why? Maybe we shouldn't ask it, but that's Why would You do this, God? Why would You go on display in a created universe? Everywhere the heavens are telling the glory Why would You do that? And His answer is because I want to be glorified I want to be marveled at by you. I want to have the infinite worth of My all-satisfying That's why. I'm going on display for conscious, rational, would be a fullest possible reflection back That's why I'm going on display in this image. He displays His glory for, I said, the everlasting, people. So this is absolutely massive for me in my This is where this came home to me, massive in how I treasure it. I'll say it again. The value, the beauty, the worth of God's in the degree to which I treasure it, enjoy with it over everything on the planet. And if there is anything that has more of it is glorified above Him. This was absolutely amazing to me. The implications take a lifetime to work out. God makes known the riches of His glory for and of course to that end, our knowing. "Think, the Life of the Mind for the Sake subtitle. When He reveals His glory to us, He doesn't He doesn't. I don't care how much we know. If fact the more we know, the worse it reflects A text, listen carefully, this is an incredibly but because of what it says, but I'm not I'm just going to go to the really, really, This is Romans 9:22 and 23. "God, desiring to show His wrath," which show His wrath and make known His power," There's lots more. "God, desiring to show His wrath and make - there's another piece of His glory - "vessels here comes my favorite phrase in all the Bible And you know what that means? He's got a purpose. He's going to tell me something about a Why wrath? Why power? Why patience? Oh yes, tell me. This may help me know how to live an unwasted What does He say? God shows His wrath, makes known His power, wrath prepared for destruction in order to the vessels of mercy." What? For them to be bored? I don't think so. Not the meaning. What? To enjoy, to embrace, to exalt Him, to praise, Surely that's obvious. The riches of His glory made known for the Two pieces, "make known the riches of His Get it like this if you've got a support For the vessels of mercy to receive with joy, all things, for the vessels of mercy to marvel the vessels of mercy to reflect as the supremely that's why He does everything from wrath, He does it so that the riches - and they of mercy for them, for them. He's prepared us for glory. We will spend an eternity, everlasting, ever Do you know why I used the phrase ever increasing? It might sound a little funny to you that It's because I'm finite. John Piper has a finite heart and a finite God is infinite. The riches of His glory that are meant to are infinite. I'm finite. What does that mean? It means I can't take it all at once. In fact, I can't ever exhaust it, ever. So my understanding is that I will spend an majesty after another, and in about three edge of the range that I can see, there will distance, range after range after range of known truly and treasured duly. So He gets the glory in being known truly, He is glorified in us when we are most satisfied That's discovery number one. That would be enough for a lifetime. And the implication for this 24-year-old now I should join Him. I mean, that just seems so obvious to me, here, just I'm on board. If this is your purpose for the universe, It's all I want to do. I want to so live and so die as to make Your That's it. That's the unwasted life. Stop now. Go home. "Whether you eat or drink," my dad would whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do everything to make Him look great, which value Him, so be satisfied in Him above all make Him look more valuable than anything That's what it means. Pray then like this, "Our Father in heaven, I love the Lord's Prayer. It's a prayer. I mean, every one of the sentences is a petition. I used to think it was an acclamation. "Hallowed be Your name," is like, "You Well, He is, but it's, "Let Your name And I'm... Every time I pray it - I pray it almost may Your name be hallowed," here hallowed, as other, transcendently pure - R.C. Sproul's phrase, a magnificent phrase. What? And found boring? No way. Revered as infinitely valuable, revered as right here today, and then in Noel, and Talitha, and their wives and twelve children, and now and ministries like Ligonier, and out to the God, come, cause this valuing of Your name, Come, come, come, do this. That's what we pray in the first sentence It's all about the majesty, glory of His and revered and honored and praised, so that must be awesome." Let him who serves, which is what I'm trying God supplies, so that in everything God may belongs the dominion forever. So the implication of discovery number one If God is "is," I am. And if He created the universe in order to for the vessels of mercy in order that the be obvious in our lives, then my life is defined You know, don't you, watching me that there's You know I'm a sinner. I fail at this. All I'm doing is defining I know what I'm God will judge whether I have come even close. My wife would have a different judgment than You only know the teacher preacher guy. My kids know another guy, and my wife knows And I love Paul saying, "Do not judge before I don't even judge myself. The Lord will judge on that day when He brings That's a trembling day. Do I know my own heart? I don't. I know some, and I trust my merciful Savior number two, and these next two are shorter. What necessitates discovery number two is God's purpose and my ability to join Him So His purpose is that I would so treasure how supremely valuable He is, and the obstacle I want to be God. I don't live for nobody else. For goodness sake, I want to be God. Self-denial is not in my bones. I don't want anybody telling me what I can not love. Get out of my face, God. That's a pretty big obstacle. And... And it has another piece to it, namely, He The wrath of God is on me with such a weight times yesterday. So how will God's purpose then ever be achieved which Paul explicitly says every one of them And here's the second discovery. Jesus Christ, the Son of God incarnate, not the glory of God, but in the very act of overcoming of the glory I couldn't see. Does that make sense? Jesus Christ enters the world as the God-Man, my depravity, absorbs the wrath of God so to see and savor, and in the very doing of glory I was designed to see. That was discovery number two. Let me give you three passages of Scripture because this... this was there in nugget in it become clearer. I think I've become over the years a more ago. I love being theocentric. In a sense, I could argue a long time - maybe it's appropriate to exalt God and His holiness Christ. And then He will hand over the kingdom to be a good place to start. But I think I might not have had the balance I'm not even sure now I have the balance Let me give you three texts. Ephesians 1, "In love, God predestined us to the purpose of His will to the praise of So what's clear there is my predestination, Christ is designed to bring about praise for So now we've got a clarification of the It's grace. And the praise is not boredom. This is exultation. This is exhilaration. You are predestined, you are adopted all through of grace at the peak. Text number two, 2 Timothy 1:9, "He saved us to a holy calling, not because of our works which He gave us in Christ Jesus before the So now this grace, which is the apex of the work of Jesus, was given to us before the So this is massively clear to me that God's here because the grace is given through Jesus This is awesome. This is breathtaking. I'm on to... I'm on to the purpose of the universe with half of this message - Jesus, central, incarnate, me before anything exists. One more text, this is Revelation 13:8, "The has not been written before the foundation who was slain." Before there was a universe, there was a book, the Book of the Life of the Lamb who was slain. You couldn't put a clearer point on the the point of the universe - because the of God's glory. The apex of the riches of God's glory are The apex of the riches of the glory of His like me to cover the wrath of God, cover my see the glory He has become - amazing, amazing. God's purpose was to display His glory. The apex of that glory is His grace. The apex of the display of grace is Jesus And the apex, the climactic moment of the was His death for sinners like me. What did He do? What did He do? Well, others in this conference have and will how can you not want to say it. He became a curse for me, Galatians 3:13. He bore the condemnation of my sin, Romans God made Him to be sin, who knew no sin, so of God, so my guilt is credited to Him, and I'm free now from the wrath of God and free of that, because of all of that cross work, God kicks in behind all the promises of the And you know what those are? "I will put the fear of Me in you, and I Faith is freely given. Repentance is freely given, Ephesians 2:8, Coming to Christ is freely given to me, John New birth is freely given to me, John 3:8, my blindness, my distaste for God and my hatred I'm born again. Why else would I be exhilarated by God's I love God's God-centeredness. And oh protect me, God, oh protect me from How subtle is sin in the Calvinist heart and What now am I able to see? If He removed all the obstacles of wrath and has been overcoming my depravity by the gift gift of new birth, what can I now see? 2 Corinthians 4:4, "The light of the gospel God." I'll say it again. This is a summary of discovery number two. Between God's purpose to be known and treasured of depravity and wrath. God sends Jesus Christ into the world, and and absorbing God's wrath, in doing that enabled to see. Last discovery, number three, and before I I don't want to jump over this. Let me connect that with my purpose for living. How does that affect the unwasted life? Well, it just narrows its focus. Now I live and I die in order to show that like me is infinitely valuable. The unwasted life is a life lived to show You know how Paul said it, "For His sake count them as refuse in order that I might That's the longing of my life - to get like rubbish compared to knowing Jesus, that of my own which comes from law, but the righteousness from faith... the righteousness of God that the power of His resurrection, that I may His death, if by any means possible, I might an eternity with my King, my all-satisfying, Discovery number three, the life that most and glory of God in Christ is a life of joyful The life that displays the infinite value Christ crucified for sinners, the life that suffering in the service of love. And I'll just close by giving you a text The Sermon on the Mount, chapter 5 of Matthew, and see if you put the pieces together before "Blessed are you when men revile you and you falsely. Rejoice." That's crazy, right? "Rejoice in that day, be glad, for great the prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth. If the salt has lost its flavor, how shall It's good for nothing but to be thrown out You're the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do men light a lamp and up it under light to all who are in the house. And so in the same way, let your light shine glory to your Father." That's what the universe is for. The question is, what's the light? What's the salt? You're the salt. You're the light. And when people taste it, they say, "Whoa, Whoa, that's unusual." What's unusual in this text? What's unusual? Not good deeds. Good deeds are not unusual. Plenty of pagans full of good deeds, and nobody What's unusual? What's really salty? What's really bright? What's extraordinary? What's impossible in this text? One thing, joy in the face of persecution The world cannot do it. They've got no reward, and they're not up with lies. But you can, and if you do, if you are so when men revile you and persecute you and Rejoice for your reward is great." If you are so satisfied in your reward that who hate you, happily, you're off the charts The people will taste you, "Hey, that should That's incredible. That's awesome. That just can't be done unless there's soul of man. What's the reward? Jesus prayed in John 17:24, "Father, I ask Me where I am to see My glory." That's it. If you want a reward beyond that, there isn't You can't get greater than the glory of is over the book from all eternity. So I plead with you, don't waste your life. Look to Jesus. Find in Him and in His suffering for you the Find that in Him. Find it in Him. Then embrace Him and be so satisfied in Him supreme treasure.