In the world of Linux distros, there's always But then you have the classics. And few the great grandparent of so many Some might even call Debian boring, but is it? [chiptune intro music, big guitar hit at the end, followed by paper tearing sound] Greetings, and welcome to another I'm Veronica, and today I'd one of the most influential Linux Debian is one of the oldest Linux distributions on Really? 1993? That means Debian is 30 this year. [Aging Millennial Sigh] Wow. I'll give Debian the same advice my Listen, here Buster. Get into the feel like a Bookworm today, all decade long you might Slink Hamm it up if you want to, but whatever you do, don't just Buzz along hoping Anyway, as far as Linux distros are concerned, Debian tends to be on the Far from a rolling release, Debian releases They number each major release, and then I suppose Disney's going to have movies at some point just to keep Debian afloat! As a result of the conservative approach in to be a version or two behind what you might find Take KDE Plasma for instance. KDE Plasma is on version 5.26. But in the current That's an over two year old You might be thinking "this is bad". But, is it? I mean, sure, we tend to want recent programs on But considering that Debian backports major versions of the distro, in practice, this If you've ever been a sysadmin, a dev, or can be a real challenge to be running the They call it "bleeding edge" for a reason. I manage servers for a living, and I be generally fast enough for most of Even on desktop, if you're not into chasing you might be just fine with Especially since Flatpak versions For those who don't know, Flatpak is which can run apps in isolation from In practice, that means dependencies a nice way to get around the older Installing Flathub on recent versions of you can benefit from the vastly Generally speaking, even though I'm a I think that Flatpak is a fine way to get best hope for a "unified" And of course, let's not forget, if you don't want to use Apt is a fantastic package manager for Folks who complain online about Debian might not be aware of just how powerful You can specify repos, pin packages, and Of course, that means you'll need come on. We learn complicated things all the time. If you want to take the time to learn system you want. Maybe that's why Anyway, if there's a package you need you can just pin it and deal with it that way. It And, speaking of unstable... Debian maintains an &quot;unstable&quot; branch named and as the name implies, Now, I don't know if folks should use Sid, if they're trying to get active Remember the &quot;Year of Hell&quot; episodes of is like- things can rapidly change through and you could end up in a very Now, I'm sure you'll all let me know how you I don't recommend it for production work, unless Of course, using Sid to learn about Running a Sid system is a great way I've run Sid on devices for years, just as to challenge myself every now and again. It gets but it's not a real &quot;rolling release&quot;, You see, in true rolling the rolling release *is* the product. it's more of a workspace; a preview of Right now I'm running Sid on my media every now and again, but oh well- it And we haven't even talked about package security. Sid does not get security updates from the Debian security team in the same way If security is important to my recommendation is to look elsewhere But, if you don't mind fixing your system the security implications of the &quot;unstable&quot; And of course, you don't have to try Sid- I mean, I'm not telling you &quot;stop using Arch, use Sid instead&quot; or anything like that. I know that's Debian's obviously not going who is Debian even for? And is it right for you? Well, if you want a rock stable distro, and don't mind older packages, yes- And, if you want a customizable modern experience, and you don't mind getting your hands dirty in If you want a plug and play distro that pumps out all new software every few But that's fine! One of the best things about Linux is disposal. But that shouldn't be surprising at all, It's time once again for &quot;Ask Veronica&quot;, where I answer a question from one Today's question is: &quot;what distro [child counting in a punk song] &quot;1, 2, 3, 4!&quot; This is a complicated question, Because it really varies from use to use and What I'm going to recommend really I tend to use Debian for most WordPress sites, just because I've learned a good workflow For most other PHP stuff, I tend to use Ubuntu. Updating to newer versions of PHP Not that you can't do it with Debian, but And Ubuntu tends to make that a little Plus, a lot of the PHP applications that you so if I'm installing something for somebody, Another one that's got my attention and really the whole Enterprise Linux family. I like what I see here, up using EPEL all that well... the My customers tend to be a little bit averse Whereas Ubuntu tends to make I tend towards Debian and Ubuntu side for most web servers, but (eh) that could change. And if you want me to answer head on over to support.linux.mom to