When the prison doors slam shut, following keeping your privileges, But no prisoner was expecting pink jumpsuits or to...pay rent? Here are the weirdest Let's start over in Arizona, with the colorful was a hard-nosed, tough-on-crime officer who statements - and his bizarre policies. His prisons banning such perks like coffee and unrestricted if he was dealing with hard-boiled criminals - but not prisons, and were either awaiting And some of his policies were truly weird. In prison, you don't get to choose what black-and-white stripes for convicts. Then it because if a prisoner escaped, it would be much But what reason could Sheriff Joe underpants? The initial argument was so the inmates wouldn't steal them from each calming effect - but anyone who ever tried to give that's bunk. Many people think he had only one And it wasn't the only time Sheriff The chain gang is one of the most notorious it wasn't even always a punishment! Prisoners and that meant breaking rocks in And they were often shackled together to keep past - until Arpaio brought it back and put in tent cities where the Arizona sun could stay his argument was that the soldiers in the And he even took away one of Prison food isn't going to win any awards, and hall and a high school cafeteria in quality, burger. Except not in Sheriff Joe's jails and decided a good way to do this would be to cut soy burgers and nuggets instead. He also cut meals on how the inmates feel about the vegetarian And then he added insult to injury. Unlike most prisons in the United States, didn't get a free ride on food - everything A serving of the standard mess hall food would cash the inmates had on them before they were advocates of criminal justice reform - and they with criminal contempt of court for violating and while he was eventually pardoned by re-election in 2016 and the era of bizarre But it wouldn't come to an Around the United States, many prisons unusual. One of the hardest parts of being from friends and family for months or even years and there are strict rules for anyone either kept behind glass, forced to talk or if they're in a lower-security prison they there will usually be no touching, even And it's not any easier when it How do you make a cell feel a little more like cells with photographs from home. Some bring it have photos mailed to them from home. Yet, prisons can have in their cells - in Ohio, the limit is they can only have five at a time. The officials being smuggled in. The reason? According to prison And even letters can be a problem. In many states, you can't even send mail sent to an approved mail sorting facility to even inappropriate messages that could give them those mail-sorting companies have to apply for vetted - which means they have to go through an massive delays for the mail. In Pennsylvania, mail has to go to the state's contracted partner way back to the Keystone state - at which point And say goodbye to other little pleasures as well. In prison, recreation options are limited. Any recreation time is often a little more old-school. games? Surprisingly, many US prisons have in the do with a riot over a game of Monopoly. No, the party - Covid-19. The fast-spreading virus was the same dice and tokens. Now that it's known this would seem to be less of a risk - but no This next rule might make more Being in prison is stressful no matter what, quit smoking cold turkey. That was the position as the state banned all tobacco products in which can spread second-hand smoke, but This was good for the health of the inmates, of challenging places to kick a habit. The state but the odds are the detoxing inmates were more And even the library isn't safe. The prison library may be the biggest Not only is it a relatively safe haven - it's a a book than a barbell in the weight room themselves. Many even continue their education at Some have even used the access to computers to prisoners after their release - or in rare cases, So why are prison officials Many states have laws restricting what prisoners ruled that if a book is deemed to be detrimental it can be banned. Of course, some states take that of books! Texas banned economics tutorial But why did Arizona ban E=MC2: Simple Physics? it to create explosive science experiments or But some states take it even further. How do prison libraries actually get stocked? but increasingly states are only purchasing approved vendors - which means that prisoners are allowed to read. A few years all books that didn't come from their groups from sending donations. Even family loved ones some reading material. The outcry And every item a prisoner has is Cells are subject to search at any moment with prisoners largely give up the right But what's surprising is just how many There is a general rule against altering any like electronics, it makes sense for security escape tool if altered. But this even applies to pass the time. And most of the time, once seeing it again. The same goes for when an inmate an item to another inmate before leaving, and so And even the prisoners' There are certain situations where people a degree - like in the military, where hairstyle soldiers can have and what your clothing is usually strictly determined and facial hair restrictions to the military. as some religions require people to keep a beard Most states do allow religious exemptions And then there's the regulation Prisons don't really look kindly on relationships sex-segregated, and fraternizing between inmates after several high-profile cases where guards or But relationships between two prisoners are because a breakup behind bars could get violent risks. But that often leaves inmates sexually that many prisons have a ban on masurbation! But some US prison rules are even more intense. Most prisoners are in medium-security or average restrictions, including a general lack if they step out of line. But for high-profile and serial killers - or those inmates who Supermax prison awaiting them. And if they haven't seen anything yet. Supermax prisons go in, you're probably not coming out - and And that means that Supermax prisoners In most prisons, solitary confinement is a cross the line, you're tossed in a cell and left few opportunities for activities or interaction. Prisoners largely spend their entire day in their out for an hour of supervised recreation in what but walk around. This is partially for the safety assume that anyone who is in a Supermax prison activities or amenities in your average prison get limited literature or correspondence But these crazy rules are nothing compared Usually, when prisoners work out during recreation the Philippines Cebu Provincial Detention and warden has a very different idea of workout dance party! The prison, overseen by has large groups of inmates participate dance songs. Like most things in prison, footage of the prisoners dancing away And surprisingly, not all prison rules are bad. Having company in prison is a rare thing - but sentenced there for a crime. In Aranjuez Prison, opportunity. If they have young children, they can family cells that allow the inmate to gain The inmate is less likely to repeat their crimes and this continues until the child would start asking questions, But no prison has a more unusual work Prison jobs are usually basic stuff doing laundry, or working on factory products that description - except in Fortezza Medicea to a high-end restaurant and staffed entirely prison - everyone at the high-security prison the restaurant has gained a reputation as one have to undergo a security and background check It might not be as pretty, but this next prison Cereso Chetumal Prison in Mexico is with a reputation as the safest jail in the Prisoners can even sell their crafts But the prison's most notable for not having nonconsensual violence. When the prisoners want given gloves and instructed on the rules, and safely, work out their frustrations, and it's worked like a charm. Maybe this is a And speaking of the office... If you passed through Justizzentrum Leoben in office. The only difference is, that its It's actually a minimum-security prison, and as smooth a transition from prison life they wear their own clothes, spend most cook their own food. It resembles a low-security the country hopes it'll reduce wwhen these And one prison tries to not just do At Bastoey Island Low Security Prison in Norway, the facility's carbon footprint. This isn't all-natural compost project. Mmmm, just smell also gets all its power from solar panels, but think again - the prison allows its inmates many people to describe it as more like an island And from the most comfortable Today, the Squirrel Cage Jail in Iowa is a tourist was once one of the tightest lockups imaginable track of a whole group of inmates. That's pie-shaped cells in a large contraption The jailer controlled the turning of the prison, This also meant that if an inmate was trying their arm could get caught in the moving a popular historical curiosity - but maybe not But at least they're better Aw, look at that friendly dolphin! What kind that scary? But the rules at this Southern Russian originally designed for those serving a life the worst of the worst Russian criminals. Much twenty-three hours a day in their cells and are that's only the beginning. The prisoners are and are required to stand at attention. They must an order, they're only fed soup, and the security cells. They're blindfolded when they arrive, to another, they're bent over at the waist as them from gaining any momentum for an escape. It's And over in Thailand, things are almost as rough. Thailand has many prisons, including those for Bang Kwang Prison in northern Bangkok, abandon the worst of the worst, including the death prison fears violence so much that for the first shackles around the clock. That'll put a crimp who are never expected to leave, the prison the irons on their legs shut! While most of the serious crimes, it's also a common place to trying to smuggle drugs out of the country - and But what about a prison with no rules at all? Welcome to the prison with the strangest rules Bolivia. With a population many of them dangerous, the culture shock because it doesn't feel like a lockup - it feels you'll find a soccer pitch, a hospital, As you walk along the street, the inmates are of which includes goods that you wouldn't Because at San Pedro Prison, the There are guards at this prison, but they're not Rather, they have exactly one role - keeping are often nicknamed "Warehouses" because the and doesn't particularly care what happens to more autonomy - but the prison can also quickly nastiest inmates turn the place And that's exactly what happened at San Pedro. The most powerful inmates at San Pedro live like who come to visit. San Pedro isn't just a prison but those who come there aren't just buy cocaine in a place where the sale of Inside, the prison has its own elected for the society. It's even common for to live there full time - usually under the But for those who come in, To stay at San Pedro Prison, you've got to pay in the world, you're not guaranteed three hots and you can pay for it. Most inmates start out by that allows them to buy a share of a small cell way up - or bring a lot of money in, they can kitchens. Some of the top rooms even have cable prisoners are likely keeping the same businesses And as long as they keep it to the guards are just fine with it. Want to learn more about one of the most Check out "Why You Wouldn't Survive Supermax