Today's video is brought to you by SlideBelts, ratcheting buckles. Not only do they make Belt - but they're also long-time viewers of for some time now and they honestly make gift since you can buy one size and trim it the video for a special discount code for He is heir of Isildur, chieftain of the great kingdoms of Men. After a traumatic and reclaiming the throne he would go on to Today, on Nerd of the Rings, we cover Aragorn II is born on March 1, 2931 TA to Gilraen's mother, Ivorwen had convinced her objections. With her gift of foresight, she might be born for the Dunedain, and that their son When Aragorn is just two years old, his father Gilraen then sends her son to Rivendell this had become a custom for the heirs of Isildur father slain, Elrond would care for Aragorn as Elrond would keep his identity a secret, instead In his early years, Estel would often sons Elladan and Elrohir. The been on the hunt with Arathorn when was killed. he returns to Rivendell from a journey of pleased to see that Estel has grown to be both Thus Elrond reveals to Estel his heir of Isildur. Elrond presents to him the shards of Narsil and the Ring of Barahir. There the original capital of the northern Elendil himself. Elrond withholds the sceptre The following day, Aragorn is walking alone hope and he begins to sing "The Lay of in the Fellowship of the Ring film. As he elf maiden and to Aragorn she seems as Luthien person to have ever lived. Fearing that she he calls to her "Tinuviel, Tinuviel" - just The elf corrects him, for but Arwen, daughter of Elrond. She had just her grandparents - Galadriel and Celeborn. lineage, feels as though it is nothing We are told that Gilraen opposes the idea believes Arwen's lineage is more noble and that both Aragorn and Arwen are descended from two Idril. Likewise, Elrond would learn of Aragorn's but says he can see the truth in and tells him "A great doom awaits you, your fathers since the days of Elendil, left of your kin. Many years of trial lie nor bind any woman to you in troth, until your Elrond says the future will bring what it may, many years and that days of darkness lie ahead. he bids farewell to his mother, the house of Aragorn takes up his mantle as 16th chieftain the Grey for the first time. The two would go advises Aragorn to keep watch over the region of From 2957 to 2980 TA, Aragorn goes on many against Sauron. So as not to reveal his a name Gondorians called him, meaning Eagle of the was known for being keen-eyed. He would first come father of Theoden. Thorongil would until hearing a summons from Gondor, He travels to Minas Tirith, coming to serve Thorongil's arrival and his great deeds on both For it is said that Ecthelion trusted and loved Steward is that he should not trust the wizard in opposition to Denethor, who did not trust but Denethor also finds himself placed second as well - bringing about a resentment While Thorongil is known for great deeds we are told of one battle in particular many long years. Ecthelion had been for it had been nearly 30 years since Sauron and it was only a matter of time until Thorongil counsels the steward, saying the the Southern Fiefs should Sauron move against some Gondorian vessels south in an attempt leads the navy into the Gulf of Umbar, catching many corsair ships and Thorongil himself kills He then withdraws his forces having suffered threat of Umbar would be diminished for several Though he would be honored greatly for Thorongil leaves his men when they stop that other tasks now called to him. The last toward the Mountains of Shadow. The men of Thorongil...all save Denethor. As Denethor would spends the following years travelling to distant "and then in the hour of victory he passed and went alone far into the East and deep both evil and good, and uncovering the plots It is said that his work in these years would later during the War of the Ring. Finally, toward Rivendell. En route, he stops for him to cast aside his wayworn raiment, giving appears to be more than any kind of Men, but Unbeknownst to Aragorn, Arwen is once again The now 49-year old mortal man once again meets for a time in the glades of Lothlorien until to the hill of Cerin Amroth, where they look 'And Arwen said: "Dark is the Shadow, Estel, shall be among the great 'But Aragorn answered: "Alas! I cannot foresee it, and how it may come to pass is hidden from Shadow I utterly reject. But neither, lady, and if you will cleave to me, Evenstar, 'And she stood then as still as a and at last she said: "I will cleave to Together, they plight their troth, and Aragorn betrothal. Aragorn returns to Rivendell, where 'When Elrond learned the choice of his daughter, found the doom long feared none the easier Rivendell he called him to him, and he said: and beyond them little is clear to me. it has been appointed so, that by my loss the though I love you, I say to you: Arwen Undomiel cause. She shall not be the bride of any Man me then even our victory can bring only sorrow and my son! I fear that to Arwen the Doom 'So it stood afterwards between Elrond and but Aragorn went forth again to danger and fell on Middle-earth, as the power of Sauron grew Arwen remained in Rivendell, and when Aragorn was and in hope she made for him a great might display who claimed the lordship of the Just over 20 years later, in 3001 TA, as Aragorn takes on a new task - assisting creature Gollum. This is the very year of to suspect that what is now Frodo's ring in 3007 TA, Aragorn returns briefly for the last time. She tells him that it she cannot face the darkness that gathers Aragorn attempts to comfort his mother, saying final words to her son, Gilraen says: Onen i-Estel to the Dunedain, I have kept no hope for here - she did not simply give hope to the In one of my favorite deep-cut Aragorn recite these very words - a Aragorn who died seeing only the darkness After searching intermittently for many years, marshes in 3017 TA. He goes north through the Sauron's spies. He then crosses the great Anduin swimming across the river. They proceed along the Upon their arrival, the elves of Lorien But Aragorn's journey is not yet complete. He and with the help of the Beornings, they enter He turns Gollum over to the elven king to be held Aragorn had traveled some 900 After this long journey, Aragorn returns to Gandalf at Sarn Ford in May, 3018. There, Gandalf Shire, bearing the ring, in late September. Aragorn learns from the elves of Gildor that seen. He also learns that Frodo has left Hobbiton, Aragorn anxiously watches over the East Road with Finally, on September 29, four halflings enter sits in the corner. After Frodo stands on a table revealing the story of Bilbo's disappearance, the Strider confronts Frodo about the foolishness of room that night. He warns them of the danger of Gandalf, and shows them the hilt shard of Butterbur delivers a letter from Gandalf he had which supports Strider's claims, the ranger to Rivendell. This results in one of the funniest 'Well, you know your own business, maybe,' Strider. 'But if I was in your plight, 'Then who would you take up with?' only remembers his own name because Frodo agrees to take Strider on as their guide. Chetwood, the Midgewater Marshes, and the Weather There, they find a stone with strange markings. three strokes - interpreting this to mean that That evening, they would come under attack gone in pursuit of Gandalf after their before. After Frodo is stabbed, Aragorn drives of wood in either hand. Aragorn does what him with Athelas after singing a slow song in Aragorn continues to lead the hobbits They encounter the three Trolls from Bilbo's Glorfindel on the evening of October 18. As by the nazgul on October 20. Glorfindel sends Aragorn, and the other hobbits come behind River Bruinen. With Frodo on the other side, the who are swept away. Their steeds killed, Aragorn would then bring Frodo to his Morgul wound by Elrond. Five days later, where he is revealed to be the heir of Elendil to with doubt, Bilbo is annoyed on his friend's All that is gold does not glitter, The old that is strong does not wither, From the ashes a fire shall be woken, Renewed shall be blade that was broken: 'Not very good perhaps, but to the point Elrond. If that was worth a journey you had best listen to it.' And indeed, the blade that was broken would be it Anduril - the Flame of the West. Later, Elrond of his company departing Rivendell. The original with the Fellowship while their paths were the to assist the kingdom of men. Aragorn and Gandalf speaking of their road and analyzing maps The Fellowship departs on December where they must choose among three paths - the lost kingdom of Moria beneath the Mountains, the Gap of Rohan is not safe, and Aragorn Pass. They would encounter heavy blizzards and be When the option of Moria comes up once more that dark realm on his own: 'I too once passed though I also came out again, the memory is very In one last effort to dissuade Gandalf, he says: snow, and have said no word of blame. I will does not move you. It is not of the Ring, but of you, Gandalf. And I say to you: Eventually, Aragorn and the rest of the to pass through Khazad-dum after early hours of January 13, 3019. After Gandalf falls in his faceoff with the Balrog flees the mountain and weeps for the loss 'Alas! I fear we cannot stay here longer,' mountains and held up his sword. 'Farewell, if you pass the doors of Moria, beware? Alas that He turned to the Company. 'We must do yet be avenged. Let us gird ourselves and weep no Aragorn leads the Fellowship to Lothlorien, where they would eventually come to Caras The rest of the company is amazed at Aragorn's realm. They would remain in Lorien for Before their departure, Galadriel would she gives the Elfstone, serving as a wedding green gem would be worn by Aragorn ever after, so many years ago. Indeed, Aragorn would take For a week, the Fellowship travels by boat down February 23rd, before passing the Argonath - 'Fear not!' said a strange voice behind him. for the weatherworn Ranger was no longer there. proud and erect, guiding the boat with and his dark hair was blowing in the wind, a exile to his own land. 'Fear not!' he said. 'Long Isildur and Anarion, my sires of old. Under Arathorn of the House of Valandil Isildur's Despite his majestic appearance in Frodo's mind. While he wishes to go with Boromir fallen he should accompany the ringbearer the company is attacked by orcs at Amon Hen. and Aragorn finds a mortally wounded Boromir tells Aragorn that the orcs 'Farewell, Aragorn! Go to Minas Tirith 'No!' said Aragorn, taking his hand and Few have gained such a victory. Be at peace! 'Which way did they go? Was Frodo there?' 'Alas!' said Aragorn. 'Thus passes the heir of a bitter end. Now the Company is all in ruin. It in me. What shall I do now? Boromir has laid it on but where are the Ring and the Bearer? How shall Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli place his broken horn and sword across his lap his feet. Singing a lament for Boromir, they which would carry his body over Aragorn is able to discern that not only but that he had taken the other elven boat resolved in his decision, he, Gimli, and Legolas tireless and swift, pursuing the orcs they The Three Hunters make their way across the toward Fangorn Forest. Just over three days on February 30, 3019. Eomer is amazed to find days - a pace of 45 miles or 72 kilometers per each sensing the honesty and lordliness in of Rohan captive, Eomer gives them horses, Aragorn would go on in an attempt to coming to Fangorn Forest itself. There, on March the halflings, but a resurrected Gandalf the fulfilling his promise to Eomer. After Gandalf a King of Rohan as they march to war with Saruman. tells them of Saruman's force marching toward alongside Eomer, Aragorn would lead the men They would hold out through the night when Gandalf arrives with Erkenbrand, turning the utterly destroying Saruman's forces. Aragorn Isengard, where they would parley with Saruman - That night, Pippin would look into the palantir Pippin, who Sauron believed to be the ringbearer, Aragorn the palantir - for it belongs to him Aragorn looks into the palantir in an effort "Sauron has not forgotten Isildur and the his great designs the heir of Isildur and the re-forged to him. He is not so mighty yet that While Gimli points out that now aware of Aragorn, "The hasty stroke goes oft astray." He Aragorn is joined by the Grey Company - consisting but his old friends Elladan and Elrohir, the the lady Arwen to be brought out in the coming Rohirrim will muster their forces and Eowyn Aragorn would refuse to take her on the dark road it was only a shadow and a thought that she loved. Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, and the Grey Company reaching the Stone of Erech on the other summons the Oathbreakers - the dead men years for their betrayal of Gondor in the Aragorn makes his way through the southern the Dawnless Day crossing the Ringlo, going on his company, and the dead men drive the invading he captures their fleet. Unlike his encounter for his sword, for that great weapon of the enemy 'To every ship they came that was drawn up, and were anchored; and all the mariners were filled save the slaves chained to the oars. driving them like leaves, until we of the great ships that remained and they comforted the captives that were Aragorn takes the corsair vessels up the gift is unfurled as they come to land - the great Pelennor that doom had not come, instead the and the men of the west are victorious. Furling lord of the City, as Denethor was now dead and While refusing to enter the city so as to not into the city, where he would heal Faramir, "The hands of the king are the hands of a Aragorn would work long into the night, healing people of the city awoke the next morning, they his place as temporary lord, leading the people Aragorn holds a last debate with his most trusted Elladan, Elrohir, and Imrahil. At Gandalf's draw the forces of Mordor forth in an effort to lands. On March 18, the Host of the West marches following day. After a further four days of to Mordor, Aragorn dismisses those who had become before them. He tasks them with the retaking of They come to the black gate on March 25, where 'Is there anyone in this rout with 'Or indeed with wit to understand turning to Aragorn with scorn. 'It needs more or a rabble such as this. Why, any brigand Aragorn said naught in answer, but and for a moment they strove thus; but soon, though Aragorn did not stir nor move hand as if menaced with a blow. 'I am a herald and Aragorn's mere gaze strikes fear into the gate of Mordor. Yet, Aragorn's life would not halflings and that of fate. The ring is destroyed are rescued by the great Eagles, Aragorn would bringing them back from the very brink of death. Aragorn pardons all the Easterlings them away free. Aragorn would return to 3019 he would be crowned King of Gondor, with Men of Gondor hear now the Steward of this kingship again at last. Here is Aragorn son of Captain of the Host of the West, wielder of the Sword Reforged, victorious the Elfstone, Elessar of the line of Valandil, In one of his first moves as King, Aragorn would but appoint him Prince of Ithilien and of Sauron and his becoming King against all hope, Aragorn is still troubled, fearing his On June 25, Gandalf speaks with Aragorn the Enemy of Sauron; and my work is must lie now upon you and your kindred.' a mortal man, and though being what I am and grow old. And who then shall govern Gondor and if my desire be not granted? The Tree withered and barren. When shall I see a sign face from the green world, and look where Thus, Aragorn finds upon the slopes of Mount tree would grow in Minas Tirith once more. indeed come to Gondor, arriving around June 30, sceptre of Annuminas, signifying the kingship Arwen are wed and the Reuinited Kingdoms of On July 22, Aragorn sets out with the many others as part of the funeral they stop at the Grey Wood under Amon Din, where belongs to Ghan-buri-Ghan and his people - and On August 10th, a funeral is held for King Theoden bidding farewell to Eomer and the newly they stop at Helm's Deep before moving on their is here that the Fellowship would come to its be together. For Aragorn's part, he would And while he would order the restoration of the the realm of Isengard to be an Entish realm - Within the tower during its restoration, the star of Elendil, which Isildur had worn Aragorn would re-establish the great king's counselors is his Steward, the Oaths of Cirion and Eorl - swearing It is said in the early years of Aragorn's While the southrons in the lands of Harad would King Elessar - and come to send embassies to Minas the influence of Sauron. As the East was not only hundreds of years at a time, it was also a major that not all Easterlings were loyal to Sauron, As Tolkien states: For though Sauron had passed, and the King of the West had many enemies in peace. And wherever King Elessar went with Sea of Rhun and on the far fields of the South and White horse upon Green flew in Together, these great Kings of the West would Thankfully, the final meeting of the Aragorn would see many of his friends. In Aragorn and Arwen visit the Hobbits outside he appoints the offices of Thain of the Shire, to be counselors of the North Kingdom - and Merry, respectively. He also decrees Shire without the leave of the hobbits and We also learn that Legolas would bring a group of in Ithilien, which once again becomes the fairest and Gimli's dwarves of the Glittering Caves with the dwarves specifically rebuilding the Merry and Pippin would also make a return to him in Edoras in the fall of 63 FoA, the two with him a copy of the Red Book of Westmarch, they would spend their remaining few they are laid to rest in Rath Dinen, the burial King Elessar would die over 50 years 120 FoA. At 210 years of age, he has ruled over is placed in Rath Dinen, Merry and Pippin's Aragorn voluntarily lays down his life the great kings of Numenor of old who resented it. After her husband's death, Arwen upon the very hill of Cerin Amroth where she and As for Aragorn and Arwen's children, his heir, and at least two daughters. These the Royal House of Telcontar. This great and whose hands brought healing, and saw the downfall of Sauron is translated from Being resourceful is why I love the Survival feature an LED flashlight for dark moments, but and a bottle opener. Combined with the convenience you can save 20% off your order For some of the best belts you'll As always, I want to say a huge youtube supporters who make this channel possible: TomDaBombadil19, Lissomie the Sinda, Rabbi Joe Tepper, The Mighty Mim,Leo Vettori, BertoBerg, Graham Derricott, The Dark If you enjoyed the artwork in this description and purchase prints Thanks so much for watching and subscribing, and