[narrator] The Orient. Even in difficult times, the yearning for the beauty is undiminished. But many places in Iran Travelers are deterred But for that reason, through hidden deserts and mountains, remains one of the great dream routes It is a legendary journey. The road to the most famous cities from Isfahan to Mashhad and on to Bukhara and Samarkand is more than 2,200 kilometers long. Our journey begins in Isfahan, the home of many ruling dynasties. Safavids, Sassanids, Seljuqs, Mongols and Arabs where minarets and the domes of mosques The colors, ornamentation on the huge Imam Square, once known as the King's Square, immerse the visitor Isfahan is a magnet for pilgrims Foreigners, too, are drawn here, Some harbor fears, which a young graduate a mullah by the name of Muhammad, impressively dispels. In Arabic language, it says... [speaking Arabic] It means, &quot;Travel in the earth and look at what happened in history for someone who rejects and denies truth.&quot; I think it's a really great point. When you travel everywhere, all over the world, just look at the history. What happened to the people in the past? Some kings, some ordinary people who followed the truth, who reject that. It's a great verse about that. I can tell you: You have heard lots of things about Iran. Iran is very dangerous, Muslim people are terrorists. I can tell you: Look at me. I'm Iranian. I even studied in seminary school. And here is Iran. Here is in the middle of Iran, in Isfahan. And I will tell you something, Iran is the safest place And the only way to prove it is come to Iran and look at how is Iran. [narrator] The river and link its historic bridges is called Zayandeh Rud, But because of drought, the water is pumped off an indication of the growing But even without water, Isfahan's bridges from the Safavid era are still among the great attractions reminders of the heyday of Oriental art And in Isfahan, church bells still ring In addition to a Jewish community, Isfahan offered craftsmen and artists from Christian countries a home. Oriental tolerance. Located in the bazaar is the studio of Mr. Okhavat, a master of the ancient He draws his motifs from the love poetry Mr. Okhavat never abandoned his art, Even when virtually everyone he remained true to his art, because, he says, it is deeply rooted Iranians enjoy life and love poems Their favorite poets are Hafiz and Saadi, whose verse is extremely sensitive This sensitivity is the reason enjoy poetry Just as this art over a thousand years, it will continue to survive in the future, because people need this art and the joy it gives them. [narrator] Nearby is another store, Here, Mr. Hosseem sells Persian carpets. Along with Aladdin's magic lamp, carpets are the classic symbols [Mr. Hosseem speaking Iranian] [narrator] For Mr. Hosseem, They are his life. The most interesting thing is that these are nomadic pieces. They think and make. All the designs If I show you all of my carpets, you can Because they think and make. And then we have This is a classical carpet. To make something like this, They look and they make. You don't see any inconsistencies. But if you go through these, they're full. That's the beauty of the carpet. They made it with love, and they made it with heart. I'm very proud of telling this, that I'm an Iranian carpet dealer, because it's the third biggest business A carpet like this Unfortunately, it's getting less and less, because people prefer to work in factories and earn some money and not to spend a couple of months. [narrator] It takes us into the desert Day and night, heavy trucks thunder taking goods from the Arabian Sea The hallmark of Yazd which date back to the days In ancient Iran, the bodies were laid out for wild birds to feed on. The remains were then swept into a pit Zoroastrian fire temples The one in Yazd The teachings of Zarathustra were the widespread religion in Persia 800 years before Christ and long before Arab invaders Today, the flame more than Islamic minorities, There are many traces of history in Yazd. In the past, desert cities everywhere were cooled and ventilated Ancient qanats via pipes and channels. The town is a busy place. Schoolgirls visit mosques Islamic religious instruction, [men praying] [narrator] Their fathers In the mornings, men of all ages wearing sports shirts and shorts [chanting prayers] [narrator] To the sound of drums, dozens of men in a ritual training program known as &quot;zoorkhaneh.&quot; Zoorkhaneh, too, and has remained an institution The ceremony is led by the drummer [Hojaffi] People in Persia They practice it, from their forefathers. It's a kind of monument This is a martial tradition that has been handed down People enjoy this form of sport. But because it is difficult, not everyone is able to perform [narrator] The warming-up program The size and weight of the clubs used and physical condition It is a training program that can be compared People kept fit without weapons, especially in times when superior forces The songs being sung today the Prophet's son-in-law. [singing] The youth must accept and they must pass on the doctrine to the younger generation. They must teach them This is the only sport It combines both religion [narrator] indicates the old paramilitary character In the concluding whirling dance, each participant shows his agility This can even lead to the trance-like characterized the dervishes. Our journey continues Today, because of the long embargo many goods enter Iran Changes on an ancient trade route, which takes us from Yazd to Kerman. The focal point of every historic town which also usually embraces and mosques. Life here pulsates, enables conclusions to be drawn as to the situation in the country. On markets in Iran, and are displacing local handicrafts. But for many young families Shortly before Nowruz, every family buys seven talismans known as &quot;Haft-seen.&quot; A sales assistant explains the symbolism. [woman] This is a special table decoration the table with the seven symbols. Just as St. Nicholas heralds the advent we have Hajji Firuz and Nane Sarma. Nane Sarma comes to every town The cultural symbols serkeh, vinegar; seeb, apple; somaq, spicy fruit; senjed, mulberry or dried olives; and samanu, Each of these symbols seer, garlic, for health and well-being; serkeh, vinegar, seeb, apple, for loving care and the beautiful image and one day harvesting apples from a tree. senjed, the wild olive or mulberry, stands for love and compassion. [narrator] A decorative goldfish Iran and the entire Orient are covered by a network of tombs where Sufi saints were laid to rest. Shah Nematollah Vali was a Sufi master, and his shrine near Kerman Islamic law in Iran regards Sufism However, After all, the Sufis were mediators between popular beliefs Today, the dervishes are scattered worldwide, Our journey is becoming more and more with snow-covered mountains, high passes and salt deserts by the roadside. There are over 50 arid regions in Iran, and the Lut Desert and most desolate collection It's also part In summer, temperatures have been recorded here. The Lut Desert is famous created solely by wind and erosion: the Kaluts, as they are known. Strangers rarely venture and sparsely populated region. But on the edge of the desert, a camel breeder During the daytime, At night, they're tethered again The animals are fed roots, and seem to be very tasty. The camel breeder examines his animals or bite wounds. He also frees them from the biggest ticks. Mohammad told us about his life here. The region here is really arid, So to feed the camels, I have to buy Even so, you can still live well If only God would let more rain fall. But spring will soon be here. Then, this is a paradise The animals provide us with good milk, and there's a big demand for their meat, which fetches high prices. What is more, They are tame. So you can ride them Most of the villagers There is also a bit of agriculture here, mainly cereals and dates. The best profit But the powerful wind and storms Harvests are affected Otherwise, there are more than enough [narrator] The central government It is March, and people here find the pleasant In summer, it gets twice as hot. The New Year festival is approaching, and in keeping with tradition, every household Women in the desert wear bright colors, a pleasant contrast to the black garments But before filming these women, you first need the permission [speaking Iranian] In Deh Salm there is a modern workshop It's available to all the women. So anyone who has the time can work here. The money earned This is highly unusual, and the result of work which is striving to improve the quality The women are open, but shy and reserved when addressed. They don't want to say the wrong thing So it takes a while The women in the village There is no difference. The day begins with household duties. The women make dough and bake bread. Afterwards, they go into the fields Only then do they go on and make mats and carpets. Women here show a lot of commitment. They really work hard. The villagers They get the accommodation ready and go to great lengths They like foreign visitors I don't really know what else to say. [narrator] Mrs. Mohamadi She doesn't have a husband And her brother doesn't interfere either. Persian women are self-assured, fathers, brothers and husbands are far more dominant From time immemorial, with the simplest of means Every village, every region, Sometimes the loaf is thicker, sometimes longer. But above all, and texture that show The daily demand for bread is huge. It's eaten at every meal, Iran is four times Like here by the roadside, This, for example, is a 400-year-old Even a layman can easily recognize traces of cultural achievements: wind towers, pagodas, defensive walls Wherever you go and whatever you see, as a traveler in Iran from day to day, your respect grows for the history We're approaching Mashhad is a commercial center of Shiite Islam on Iranian soil. Every year, more than to visit the mausoleum of Imam Reza. The tomb is also Pilgrims stay in hotels, and very often bequeath This is one reason for the vast wealth The holy precinct around the tomb Every pilgrim tries to linger here Being allowed to experience, members of another religion is a memorable experience. Journeying on towards Bukhara The mountains of Uzbekistan are just bidding farewell to winter, and spring has yet to arrive. People are yearning for warmer days and are preparing with the Nowruz festival. In Iran, this spring festival In Uzbekistan, everything Using sprouting winter barley, oil, flour and walnuts, women in the villages spend many hours preparing a dish called sumalak. It is a tradition that is said to go back to the Mongol Khan Timur. The neighbors already gather to stir the mass in a large vat [festive drumming] The mood is cheerful In the afternoon, after many hours, the sumalak has the right consistency and can be dished out at the New Year festival. By now, Uzbekistan is not an Islamic republic, and women are allowed The state-organized New Year celebration takes place Uzbekistan's most expensive pop stars They charge up to 6,000 dollars [singing in Uzbek] [narrator] It's an official festival positioned somewhere between between the traditional and the modern. For more than two generations, It is not only at the New Year's festival that the behavior patterns [man speaking Uzbek over a microphone] [narrator] The men and boys celebrate New Year with a wild equestrian game A tractor transports and each rider The rules are simple: It's illegal to hit someone in the face, insult an opponent or drink vodka. However, Injuries are part of the course. A commentator whips up the contest and praises the riders Besides prestige, The passion for this sport and the contests go on for hours. [man speaking Uzbek over a microphone] [narrator] The sumalak The dish is honored, and the anticipation of enjoying this special New Year's Something that has been cooking and the Mongol khans and protection against illness. Nothing wrong with having a quick taste. The New Year's dish and every family member. The taste is strange: a bit like bittersweet beer But at all events, for people here, In Uzbekistan, that has been living and is thus closer to Oriental lore We're taking tea with the family He has a young wife and young children, We try to understand In the tradition of educated Orientals, he responds to our questions in French. I see my mission in helping people. I care for many who are not well, up to 200 patients a day. We collect herbs for treatment purposes My children also help. At the same time, I live My particular school of Sufism which also integrates [narrator] On our way to Bukhara, are showing us which was even visited In those days, religion and spirituality Many traditions only survived in secret. This place holds a special significance And there is a reason for it. This place is called &quot;Four Brothers.&quot; Why &quot;Four Brothers&quot;? Islam has its own explanation. But I know that the name &quot;Four Brothers&quot; refers to Sufism and three religions: Islam, Christianity and Judaism. Why do I enjoy I first came here in 1984, The site looked like a ruin. There were no proper buildings, Nevertheless, we kept coming back here, because I felt the good energy And that is why I chose this place. [narrator] The two men allow us of the Sufis in a meditation retreat. It consists of rhythmically performed a kind of vocal respiration which quickly leads Established Islam sees this But for Sufis, this form of prayer [chanting prayer mantras] In Sufism, So there are breathing exercises, physical exercises, It's a complex system. Why do we practice zikr? All Sufis practice zikr. The most important reason Secondly, we want to develop inwardly, to progress towards personal perfection, to feel spirituality, and if the prerequisites exist, to aspire to divine knowledge. [narrator] For Sufi Tabib, of the exercise program cosmetics, calligraphy What he practices as a Sufi, Tabib also prescribes And interest is great. In Central Asia, too, and are searching for answers. Sufi Tabib told us why. In my view, people here, too, They sit in their cars. They eat a lot. They don't do any physical activity or breathing exercises. But the greatest problem, I feel, is that they are losing spirituality. Their link with divine energy is tenuous. People can no longer They cannot connect to it. [narrator] Sufi Tabib and his sons in Tashkent and Bukhara. These are located not in exclusive areas, but in prefabricated buildings Patients often come In the style of the ancient physicians Tabib establishes contact He talks to his patients and shows care. As a rule, he prescribes herbal medicine, recommends movement exercises gives dietary tips He only does what he learnt There is also something else to the great physician Abu Ali Sina, also known as Avicenna. We use the great Avicenna's knowledge of the medicinal plants he studied, and no other methods. In our treatments, who, from the 13th century on, passed everything down We apply their knowledge in our massages, in our brain treatments, in our use of medicinal plants, in diagnosis and in gymnastic and breathing exercises. To complement that, we add a few new applications. That's all. [narrator] Located next door where patients can obtain All the medication, are made from Uzbek herbs and roots. They're said to be effective Prices are affordable. In Uzbekistan, only the upper class manufactured by international Roots and herbs In winter, In summer, Uzbekistan is full of herbs. And in autumn, The herbs and roots where they're also mixed and processed in line with ancient formulas Most of the several dozen people belong to the Sufi Tabib clan. His son Ulugbek is in charge here. [man speaking Uzbek] [Ulugbek] We have a tree... Sufi Tabib is the 14th. I am the 15th. So Sufi Tabib knows he's 14th. He knows his fathers and grandfathers [narrator] Finally, the medications Many products are also sent to regular customers [Ulugbek speaking Uzbek] [narrator] The market And in Uzbekistan, The staff all eat together sitting on the ground in nomad style. The table is laid with far more food [speaking Uzbek] [narrator] Only the work uniforms of former Soviet days. At one time, Bukhara was one A trading center with splendid buildings, In the past, Bukhara belonged and the emir of Bukhara held sway Sufi Tabib has brought us He wants to remind us and religious tolerance, which he wishes for Uzbekistan [Sufi Tabib] Bukhara But not just of Islam. Jews and Christians were also here. The doctrine of Sufism And why did Bukhara It's because many Sufis came here, and the mental attitude Sufism accepts all religions, because it has never turned against It works with religions. It tolerates religions, We are here at the Jewish cemetery, and you can see how well [narrator] Bukhara with two synagogues, However, the number of community members is steadily declining. For Jews in Uzbekistan, it is easy to emigrate The final stage takes us to Samarkand, a place of yearning in science and architecture. This is an important place, especially in times &quot;Orient&quot; and &quot;Islam&quot; with danger. In Samarkand, Sufi Tabib and expressed his hopes of former ties. Up until the 16th century, That was because Central Asia All Sufi schools worldwide and to pursue their studies. They played a leading role in mathematics, physics, algebra and so on. There were many sciences here. But when the official religion everything was destroyed. [narrator] In the 15th century, who gave great service to science. The local puppet theater still portrays the grandson of Mughal Khan Timur Ulugh Beg in a blue cloak, a monarch for whom books and observing his beloved stars were more important In the 15th century, built in Samarkand. Today, it once again receives Back then, the Oriental ruler with little deviation Ulugh Beg also observed This offended Islamic clergy of the day. They ended Ulugh Beg's rule We take our leave of the Orient. The buildings in Samarkand are again and are thus reconciled