When it comes to ministry of deliverance, and maybe you're here today from a healing all of this stuff is not practiced. We I believe it's Jesus's theology. Salvation belongs Deliverance belongs to those who have Demons black, white, young, old. Salvation belongs to you and deliverance is the same thing. Can Deliverance belongs. Who does deliverance And so and Jesus made it very clear to the go and cast out demons on only out of a He did send them only to the Jewish people It was like this, Heal the sick. So who do you gospel of salvation to? The Lost. Who do you So if they have demons, they need deliverance. If lost, they need salvation. So for us this issue, We don't ask the question, Can a Christian have Jesus has deliverance. If they have sickness, we if they are not a Christian, we want to believe into this theological debate and going to the with real life and so if they have a demon, they they can be healed and if they are lost, as a leader or as a pastor, I want to read Jesus said, How do you know a hireling from Who runs? Who do they run from? A wolf. Deliverance is what separates shepherds and hireling. Not sickness, not healing ministry, that exposes your true colors. So those of you with deliverance, based on God's word, I have the Oh deliverance is just not my I just don't have a gift of deliverance. Deliverance is essential. Why? Because This has nothing to do about Africa, India, anywhere you have sheep, you will have wolves and that David was the shepherd as an example before he fought Philistines as a shepherd, he So when a leader or a pastor uses this cheap believe in deliverance, that doesn't belong in my You have to not only love the sheep, you by tearing lions, bears and wolves. Now, well you know, that's dangerous. Ministry not for you. David did not have scars after and they couldn't recover after that. Goliath So I want to encourage you right away with this Ministry of deliverance is very dangerous There are no repercussions from the Devil. will hurt you. Repercussions will exist Jesus never told us to expect repercussions. We don't believe in repercussions from demons. But the same way as every time I come in contact system fights. So I believe because of our faith we carry a spiritual umbrella, we are not do deliverance, we can pray for the sick and only thing the ministry of deliverance will bring So and for that, you have to have a spine and a why mainly people will not do the ministry fear that is not biblically based, you have to before doing deliverance, practicing deliverance, Believe you're protected. We stopped asking God. the minister that was coming from Africa to do Alexander would end up in a hospital with a would flip few times on the way to the conference we're being attacked and we prayed, God we plead we're going to the enemy's camp and the devil's us and guess what happened, exactly what The basis of those prayers is not the word of God The word of God clearly states, Nothing by any We renounce that teaching and we believe in the didn't prepare us is that how many people are not So for that part, Jesus never promises to protect people who claim to love God who are not happy a spine, that's all. It just will come, it's just thick skin, where you don't get defensive, where be like Nehemiah, he says, I'm too busy And so and that's pretty much where the the authority to penetrate us. He will attack unless we believe in traditional teaching religious people especially those that you know some kind of a maybe membership to people just might not be happy and for that, you and you fall in love with praises of happen. God will lift His anointing and not have the power. Because you refused to execute How did Saul lose the anointing? How did Saul lose the anointing? He to please God's people. He should have led God's anointing. God never took the title. God never remained without the anointing and guess what So people pleasing ministry of deliverance will from people. You almost have to die to that. certain influence and but all of that is a is the same way that thing can go and so and for me, when I started to get invited to youth known a little bit more in the Slavic circles and anointing water which was like deliverance is make controversy great again kind of a part. couldn't go to Africa. We didn't understand it but understanding. We just went with it and we didn't there, it's in the name of Jesus. Praise God and and not with oil. We're like, well think about a lot of them will go blind. I'm like T.B Joshua people like, well you blindly follow T.B Joshua all kinds of things and then one after another, I to speak and everything and then there was this, but personally, I had this thing, all I had to do this thing, say T.B Joshua is a false prophet, in in a circle that absolutely has no benefit and so and one night prayer, I remember the Lord you're gonna smell some other stuff too. He says, Don't please people. He said, those The alternative to walking away from this they have nothing to offer and and don't demonize the ministry of deliverance when the grace will rest upon you, later on, a lot if they don't, it does not matter. Honestly, God took our ministry almost look at the people God exposed our ministry to American World. I would say even out, not that I am not invited anymore just because we're not able to and God the documentary on deliverance will and we will do mass deliverance in 2000 So may this be an encouragement that we belong to our denominations, to the we don't have an issue with that but we a form without godliness and some kind of a club and we forget the people that are hurting on God's enemy, which is demons and so this of doing deliverance and why we're not afraid of Because we would rather not offend God in this enemy again through us. God will always find the but it's unto His glory, it's not unto our to make sure that Amalek is put to shame and God will always find somebody else who will not be desert like a fugitive, you will destroy his name anything against that and so just really wanted attacks of the enemy because they won't come if that you just develop a thicker skin because some out some of you can lose big donors in the church you along with what I already have shared is the A lot of times when people get excited about doing I think is less, there's less resistance ministry of deliverance. The moment you begin I would just really encourage that you don't get He did that with Gideon. He wasn't punishing Punishment and pruning look alike but they're Punishment is for being unfruitful. The moment season, the Lord will prune. I remember, we had think he was the first educated person that came beyond his need to be educated and we just started guy to stay in our church so bad. Me and my wife of you who know anything about me, babysitting I would ever do in my life. Kids don't necessarily Those were demonized kids. I mean, my life for his wife for such a long time and we're trying to doesn't like our pastor. The guy did not like Joshua. He did not like the fact that we did he kept like blaspheming, even our church saying was really trying to just for him not to leave he said something. He said, nobody will come no talented person. He said, you guys are a shack wrote songs, I guess Kari Jobe song and so he went he was very well-rounded. It was not stupid, his like barely speaking English and stuff so like offense. It does kind of humbles you a little bit. his prophetic words were not accurate. He still you know and he is loving the Lord and praise the us and I felt this word at the time that he was If you start to do the word board members or other people Cut them off like a cancer. Let them go. out hit him. Just let him go. Why? When they changed the world. A lot of times after Things happened, this is a beautiful moment focus the church on doing what Jesus did. getting on fire for God breaks out, God will People you don't have to break over the be delivered. People who have degrees. People who are talented. But it's important that as that we compromise. The church doesn't belong to us. It belongs to vision, the one that Jesus has not set. This has sick, He cast out demons, He preached the gospel His disciples were young people which means If your church has become a retirement Heal the sick, cast out demons, make disciples, Older people are very very important and I have older and so I don't want to spit in the cup that it's very important that we always focus on young you know this identity crisis and part of the want to be a champion like David versus Goliath when you commend an army, you're not a champion It takes team and what team does, And a lot of people, they do not like that. So and build this individual, the man of God. I'm deliverance. Nobody else can prophesy. Nobody and they kind of see themselves as I'm the David this man of God and everybody just goes in and it's not biblical number one and it's not what so you can be a commander or be a leader that In our ministry, I'm not a a champion. I walk with the team. We work with the team and that everybody knows that I'm taller than other We're building ladders for other people to I'm better than you. Every father finds True father actually will expect his son never and go more and he finds security in that