We are back, apparently, to the era federal policy announced via social media. The president elect on Truth Social, of course, promising to penalize both neighbors to the north and to the south with a 25% tariff on all products entering the U.S. starting on day one of his second term. Trump also vowing financial vengeance on China with a 10% tariff, on top of all the other tariffs already in place against Beijing. CNN economics commentator Catherine Rampell joins us in the fifth seat. And, Catherine, I want to start with your initial reaction to this 25%, because it's not unexpected, right? We've been hearing that tariffs would be coming with the Trump administration. I mean, it is not unexpected. In a sense. It may be unexpected to Americans who thought Trump was going to lower their prices, because if you voted for Trump because you thought he was going to bring grocery prices down, I have some very bad news for you. a lot of our produce comes from Mexico. Two thirds of the tomatoes that Americans purchase are from Mexico. 90% of the avocados that they purchase are from Mexico, just to mention two examples. So that is definitely going to cost extra. if you voted for Trump because you thought he was going to bring down the cost of housing, a lot of our lumber, cement, other materials comes from Canada, which means that construction costs are going to go up. Not to mention all of the ways he's going to roil the U.S. auto industry, because a lot of autos cross borders in North America multiple times before they are ultimately finished and sold to consumers. Not to mention the fact that a lot of US manufacturers purchase inputs, intermediate goods like metals and cement and other things from Canada, from Mexico. And not to mention even the retaliation that we should expect, all of which is going to be very bad for consumers. Not to mention, again, many of the U.S. workers that Trump allegedly wants to help. What about tequila? Tequila? I would bet that that's going to come out. I'm out. Count me out. Can I ask, are Republicans at the table? I know there's a love hate relationship with tariffs, with some people sort of saying like, yes, they can have. They can be a cudgel against other countries when you want to have influence over their policy. And we should say in these true social tweets, he was talking about immigration and the border and fentanyl. but that's a long economic laundry list. You know, the last time Katherine and I were on, you were saying that if Trump deports illegal immigrants, our groceries are going to go up because who will pick our crops? Now, you're saying if he does tariffs, you're saying all the groceries come from Mexico and Canada. So we do. So you had now officially have of both groceries. But no. But these things are not mutually exclusive. The groceries you just said you just said you just had all the produce is coming from Mexico. But before we were all together you were saying, no, no, it's all picked by illegals here in the U.S.. I said nothing of the sort. You see, we do we do actually have a sense of what this could affect in terms of goods, for instance, from Canada. oil is one of the things also when it comes to China technology, machinery. You got that from Canada here. Vehicles is another one. Look, you know the reason why I wanted to start the show with this is because, like, each shop in time, I mean, we are literally heading into the season and it's shopping. Avocados aside, there's a lot of stuff that's going to come up. You said in the past that you did not like across the board tariffs. So when someone gets on and says 25% check everyone you feel what? I would point out that Mexico did violate the US Canada Mexico Canada trade agreement earlier this year when they enacted Amlo judicial reforms. So technically, Trump could say this is in retaliation for that. What he did say is every time Trump rattles the saber and he's been calling for tariffs on just about everything since the 1980s, he always gives the other country. Now he always says this is what I want to see. I want to see fentanyl response from China. I want to see closing the borders. I want to see immigration. And we went through a lot of this in the first term. And Trump would always say, we're going to have the biggest, the most terrible tariffs you've ever seen. We're going to tariff the hell out of you. And it definitely there'll be some sort of thing. Everyone would panic and then there'd be some sort of sense of, okay, can we get a fig leaf. Can we get some sort of policy change that Trump can point to and say, this is a win? Usmca was not dramatically different from NAFTA, but Trump acted like he had completely reinvented it and finally gotten Americans as much better deal. I'd be surprised if we actually enact these tariffs. And prices go up everywhere that everybody in the administration is going to see, okay, how can we get out of this while looking like we've got some sort of victory yet any move by these foreign governments is going to be seen as, okay, that's our out in check. Let me bring you into this, because obviously there are a lot of constituencies that were very interested in the Trump administration. Trump 47, being a sort of shift to the economy and some that would benefit them. Who benefits here? Look, it all depends who you are. If you're in the Trump administration, say, I've been telling you this from day one, I think there's nobody here, even Democrats, even this Democrat who would say that we don't want to secure the border. And to Scott Point, he's been talking about it for a long time. There's 476 if I did my Google or not, billion dollars that come in from Mexico. And if you start putting a tariff on, then it cost people more money and the prices go up. I think there will be a pushback from lots of people across the country because they voted for cheaper gas and groceries. I'll tell you who benefits from this. It's anybody that Trump tipped off at Mar-A-Lago yesterday that he was going to do this because the the exchange rate between the Mexican peso in the US dollar just rapidly changed. So yeah, there are some people who are going to pocket some money from this. I, I understand Trump's hatred or disdain for Mexico. I don't understand I forget the Canadians. Well, that's what you're saying. What did I do exactly. That's what I know. The question is why do they didn't what do they. It's like Trump. Everybody is Trump's enemy at some point. And so Canada you know what. Why is why why are they the out of China Mexico and Canada. Those are the three countries. But also I just leave it up for fentanyl coming in. But I think the thing that will be interesting is, look, we had an election. I'm gonna say it over and over. Elections have consequences. It is going to be shopping season. But Donald Trump won't be the president when this first holiday season comes. But if he tariffs by the time the next holiday season comes, which will be 2025 going into a midterm year of 2026, that administration will have questions to answer to the American people that he sold a bill of goods. And now the bills are a lie. And just I want to add one thing. You said it's not this season, but you already have many American companies scrambling to the media, right, saying going across whether it be Walmart or whether it be whoever we're I know on our podcast, we're talking to people in the fashion industry with the materials they're buying ahead of time. So it will make a big difference. even if it means people rushing in this moment. I want to move to this issue of immigration, since you guys kind of have all touched on it here, which is that you have the, sort of potential incoming administration talking about how they will wield policy. And one of the ways to do that is to threaten federal funding to sanctuary cities, sanctuary states, etc.. we've seen this before. but do we think that this is going to be the approach that works, so to speak, if you want to implement something as big as mass deportation? Well, he needs to threaten these local officials who are currently threatening, you know, what you might characterize as an insurrection when they're saying, hey, we're going to resist the federal government's a slave insurrection for insurrections. listen, you've got you got elected officials. Denver Mayor Mike Johnson said he was going to deploy the Denver police to stop federal immigration. What do you call it? Saying that now he backtracked from that, unsurprisingly what he had said, I'm willing to go to jail over this. And I believe it was, you know, the Trump's appointee for Homeland security or for, for immigration. I was like, yes, fine. That's fine. We agreed to your terms. We will put you in jail over that. The Trump administration desperately wants some Democratic official to deploy cops who should be out trying to get criminals to stop illegal immigrants from being rounded up and sent back for department. They want this fight. They'd love to have this fight. Jeff, I want to ask you, which one of the administrations in Trump was it Hulk Hogan or Macho Man Randy Savage? But we'll stable in this immigration stance a deep. But the two got me there. So look, me and Scott have had this debate, and Scott will tell me that we're just going to deport bad people of these people. I think, he says. It's one point. Check me, Scott, 1.2 people has got records that need to be deported. Some Commonwealth 1.6, 1.6. so we talked last time I was here about, my business partner, who is from El Salvador, whose TPS expires in March. If she doesn't self-deport, she is one of these criminals at that point, and she's been here for 26 years or 22 years. She came here when she was six and she works for me. She will make more money than a U.S. congressman and pay more taxes than him this year. This is the problem I have. This is the problem with real people with real lives are going to be affected by this. And I think there's kickback to that. I think the deportation and immigration conversation goes hand in hand with the tariff conversation, because the stated reason for the tariffs is not just because he's mad, it's he wants to use it as a tool, as a cudgel against these countries that he doesn't think are stopping the flow of people and drugs across our border. That's the point of it. But he ran on essentially a couple of issues here that are tied to the same thing, which is that he believes illegal immigration has led to all sorts of cultural and governance problems for this. And I think we're also kind of asking everyone and people talk about this with Democrats a lot. Unintended consequences is a real thing, right? So what are you walking into consequences if you look at whom Trump prioritized for deportation in his first term, it was not the criminals. In fact, he released more convicted criminals, convicted and charged criminals into the United States than Biden did because he was filling up his jails with asylum seekers and TPS recipients whose TPS had expired. And, you know, refugees and visa overstays. They can say all they want that they're planning to prioritize criminals, which I think is great. In fact, Obama did that. Obama, remember, was the deporter in chief. But that is not what Trump did. He literally rescinded a Trump era order that prioritized, deporting, you know, detaining and deporting criminals in favor of having no priorities, which means everyone, which means you're a business partner, which means that asylum, the thing that will be interesting is that you were right. We debated over and over, I don't agree with Donald Trump's, immigration policies. He also has never really explained how he's going to execute the deportations, which gives a lot of people fear, alarm and concern. But when the deportations start to happen and people see children going home from school and a parent not being there anymore, we're all human. We all. There's an emotional toll that takes place on our society, and that is what governing. Governing is hard. I don't agree with it, but when he starts to implement his policies, it will have real implications on people's lives. American citizens and people who are living here that are not documented. And we'll see what the American public, I suspect that very soon in the Trump administration, people will remember what those four years used to be like under Donald Trump. And they will. Some will regret their choice.