Here, inside this refrigerator, at a temperature from the rest of the universe... If you believe the hype, this nascent technology the potential to revolutionize our lives with But quantum computers aren't the next generation entirely. And before we can even begin to talk about the fundamental physics that drives the theory We'll need to dive into another dimension, understand: the subatomic world of quantum Feynman's Idea of the 20th century encountered a major roadblock. Richard Feynman was hungry for a window into But quantum systems, by nature, are fragile, Because Feynman couldn't directly observe It quickly became clear that his computer As he added particles to the quantum systems to rise exponentially. Feynman concluded that classical to keep pace with the growing complexity of Then he had a breakthrough. What if he could design a tool made up of This instrument would operate according to perfect way to probe the mysteries of the The idea of the quantum computer was born. And by dreaming it up, Feynman had started and computer science. To understand how quantum computing works, what makes it quantum in the first place. This means that we need to talk about what's called amplitudes. Here's what the classical rules of probability 20 times. We add up the probabilities for all the possible That's just common sense. But common sense doesn't govern the quantum Before you measure a subatomic particle, you that exists in a kind of black box--a quantum in many different places. Quantum mechanics, at its core, is a change (02:05) This is also where the power of quantum rules of probability than the ones that we to probabilities. But they're not probabilities. A key difference is probability is always But amplitudes are complex numbers. And what this means is that they obey different So, if I want to know the total amplitude the amplitudes for all the different ways But when I add up amplitudes, I see something a certain place one way with a positive amplitude And if that happens, then those two amplitudes amplitude would be zero, and that would mean So the amplitudes are connected to the probability there. This is sort of the central thing that quantum that you describe a physical system is by And the way that a physical system changes these amplitudes--by some change to these But how can quantum computers use amplitudes This is a qubit. It's the basic computational unit in quantum Qubits are like bits in a classical computer, A bit is binary--it stores information in 0 or 1. But qubits are made of subatomic particles, Qubits can be 0, 1, or what we call a linear This fluid combination of amplitudes is at Before you measure a qubit, it exists in a You can think about it as a quantum version qubit has some amplitude for being 0, and Superposition is the reason that quantum computers compared to classical computers. When two or more qubits are in this closed another through the phenomenon of entanglement. This means that their final outcomes, when Quantum entanglement is the word we use for of a quantum system, which are different from in the classical world, in ordinary experience. You could think of it as like a book. When you look at the pages one at a time, random gibberish because the information isn't correlations among them. And to read the book, you have to collectively But if you want to describe very highly entangled expensive. Imagine that you had a primitive 10-qubit It could store 2^10 values in parallel. To describe this entangled configuration with or 16 thousand bits. Expand to a system with 500 entangled qubits, there are atoms in the known universe. This is exactly what Feynman meant when he for simulating quantum mechanics. For a quantum computer to be of any use, you to get an output. The problem is, when a quantum system is measured, If you look at a qubit, let's say to ask it its state, right? You force it to decide whether to be a zero Anything carries away information about whether if that information gets recorded in some computer, then the effect on the qubit will see whether it was 0 or 1. When you look at the system, then the amplitudes To extract an answer from the quantum system like the flip of a coin, we have to use interference. Interference can be seen in classical physics one wave is above the surface, and the other each other. Interference is just what amplitudes do when ... If something can happen one way with an amplitude of minus a half, then the total This is what you do in the famous double slit You close one of the paths, and then you see can happen. This is a quantum algorithm. Scientists can harness interference by creating These qubit gates cause the amplitudes to This means that they're mathematically guaranteed the right answers. This is a quantum algorithm. Scientists can harness interference by creating These qubit gates cause the amplitudes to This means that they're mathematically guaranteed the right answers. You might ask, how could you possibly concentrate don't know in advance which answer is the This is exactly why designing quantum algorithms that's been studying it for decades. Since 1994, there have been a few major breakthroughs in fields such as cybersecurity and search But according to most experts in the field, for what they were born to do--when a curious of our world. I find quantum computing exciting as a way Now, whether that's going to make anybody applications in the near-term--that's still But at least for physicists, it's an exciting The truth is... that the most important application, that we don't know yet. I'm sure that once we have a quantum computer that we can't yet foresee.