If you've got a dishwasher that you think kinda sucks, there's a good chance that with just a few tweaks to how you use it Hi. I'm apparently the internet's weird appliance guy, and a few years ago I made two videos on dishwashers Together, they're the length of a feature film! And you don't have time for that, so I've created this new version. Which begins... now. First, I want you to know that you can absolutely I do it all the time! The only prep you should need to do when loading a dishwasher is scrape off large pieces of uneaten food. The machine can handle a lot on its own, even burnt-on stuff. But it's important to understand that dishwashers are If you ever looked in there at the spray arms and thought you were having a correct thought! This machine could sincerely be described The box has racks which allow you to conveniently position stuff you want to clean like plates and bowls and flatware above those sprinklers so that they spray all that stuff with lots and lots of water to get it squeaky clean. But dishwashers don't use lots and lots of water. In fact they use very little because the water inside is recirculated. The bottom of your dishwasher is actually a false bottom: below the mesh surface is a sump That's 3.8 liters, though I'm not being that precise because When the cleaning cycle begins, an inlet valve opens to allow clean water Once full, the valve closes and a powerful pump That pump forces the water through the spray arms and... that's it. That spraying action is what cleans your dishes. It just has to go on for a while to be effective, In some machines, the water is screened through a Which brings me to Tip Number 1: check your dishwasher's bottom for a removable filter and clean it. If you've never done this and you have a filter, I'm very sorry for what you are about to find. It will be unpleasant. You should be cleaning that filter regularly. In other machines, the pump doubles as a macerator: small blades at its intake break down bits of food like a mini garbage disposal. Those machines usually don't have a filter, And, for the record, those are the only kind of dishwasher Now, you might very well have realized that if it's the then as the dishwasher runs the water inside of it is going to get yucky from all the food residue it's knockin' off the plates and whatnot. And yep! That water gets real nasty real quick. So the machine periodically stops the main pump and starts up a second pump which pushes the dirty water out of the machine through a drain hose. and it may also add some clean water at the same time to help purge that drain hose and the sump of all the nasty water. Once empty, the dishwasher fills itself up again with another gallon-ish of clean water This fill, pump for a while, then drain sequence is going to repeat a few times and by the end of the fourth or fifth fill and dump, and the water in the sump is clean. On the last fill the stuff inside is simply getting rinsed, and after one last draining, the cycle will end and your dishes are clean - all while using only a few gallons of water. In this case, 4.2 gallons or 16 liters. I've described the basics of what the machine does heat and chemicals. Let's start with heat. If you've ever hand-washed a dirty kitchen or food thing then you've probably discovered that the process is a lot easier if the water you're using is hot. This is especially true if what you're trying to clean is at all greasy - and the more easily it will come off whatever it's stuck to. So, a dishwasher has a heating element to heat the water inside. In many North American dishwashers that heating element is exposed at the bottom and used for a heated dry option, but top tip - you might try turning that off. I never use the heated dry because it feels like a waste of energy, and the final rinse is quite hot anyway that water will evaporate quickly unless you live in a swamp. Even if I don't get to it until the next morning most stuff inside is dry and I just use a dish towel for what few things But that's just, like, my opinion. What isn't my opinion though is that it takes a while My dishwasher at home has an 800W element we know that it can only elevate the temperature of the water inside and that's assuming absolutely no heat losses. That's a pretty leisurely temperature rise so, in North America, That way the water they fill with is already hot and the heating (though it may raise it a lot in the final rinse if you have a sanitize option). Except - well, you know what your kitchen sink is like. Unless you've got a booster heater under there or a hot water recirculation pump, The cold water in the pipes between and because dishwashers fill with so little water, if it takes more than just a few seconds to get hot water at your kitchen sink your dishwasher will begin washing with And that's bad, especially because the dishes are at their very dirtiest Think about how much harder it is to get butter or cheese out of a pan So - here's Tip Number 2: right before you start the dishwasher, That way you ensure the dishwasher will actually fill with hot water. Many dishwashers - like the one you're looking at now - don't even bother So that water will only be as hot as it was when it entered. Running the tap until it's actually hot may be the most important tip in this video Again, though, this advice is for North Americans specifically. Many other parts of the world hook the dishwasher up to cold water But here they are designed to fill with (and thus expect) hot water. If you have a delay start option that might change up the programming so again, if you're not happy with your dishwasher, That alone can make a huge difference. And by the way - if you try this and it doesn't seem to be helping, you might wanna double check that your dishwasher You should see a water line under your sink If that hose is hooked up to the cold water supply by mistake, But you don't just wash dishes with hot water. You're gonna need some soap. And that's why you have to buy detergent for your dishwasher! These chemical products contain a non-sudsing cocktail The enzymes help to break down proteins and starches in food, and by the way those enzymes work best when the wash water is up to temperature. So if you don't run the tap until it's hot, you can shorten the time in the wash cycle It may seem like I'm hammering that point kinda hard but I am! Because it's important and I really want you to try Anyway the other components in the detergent are also important: surfactants lower the surface tension of the water which helps it clean. Emulsifiers encapsulate fats and oils And the dispersants keep all that washed-off gunk suspended in the water so that it doesn't create residue deposits inside the dishwasher or indeed There are usually a few other helper components and in a moment I'll tell you the kind of Spoiler alert, it's the cheapest kind! But first I need to draw your attention to the machine's detergent dispenser. This little dispenser is critically important If you don't put your detergent in here and close that door, and I cannot stress that enough. The reason this is here is because It also gets rid of any detergent that was in the water! And we need that detergent to clean the dishes! But - we don't want it right away. Think about what happens when you load it up with dirty dishes - Those plates are filthy and covered in red sauce. Or maybe Alfredo, doesn't matter take your pick. When the machine starts spraying them with water, a bunch of that sauce is going to dissolve quickly, That first fill of water is known as the pre-wash, My dishwasher only spends 10 minutes in the pre-wash before it drains that water out and fills again If that dispenser weren't there and holding the detergent back, then my dishwasher would only have 10 minutes So only after it has drained the nasty pre-wash water out does the dispenser door open and allow the detergent into the water. The dishwasher will then spend a long time with that fill of water, So actually having detergent added at the correct time Although I just discovered that my fancy dishwasher is able to That is not at all a universal thing and depends on having fancy sensors - but if you're curious what I'm talking about - So Tip Number 3: Be sure to use the detergent dispenser and close it. Most of you probably already are, but I know there are some folks out there If your dishwasher's detergent dispenser is broken and that's why you aren't using it, that's going to really hurt your machine's performance and ideally it should be fixed - though there may be workarounds depending But you may also remember from your previous life experience You need an emulsifier to make them mix. Which is in the detergent... but the machine doesn't let the detergent into the water until the second fill. So you might think that first fill is going to struggle with fats and oils. And yes it will! And that's why many, many dishwashers have detergent dispensers like this one - where there are two compartments. One is sealed by the gasket in the detergent dispenser door and labeled Main Wash. But the pre-wash compartment right next to it isn't sealed at all: there are holes in the door to allow any detergent you put in there to spill right out. Ya see, before grocery stores were filled with these infernal pod and pack things, dishwasher detergent came in a box like this. It was a box of powder, and you were expected to open this little spout and pour that powder into the dispenser. And if you put some of this powder in both of those cups, then the one with holes in the lid would just spill its contents out That meant it could tackle fats and oils immediately, Then, when it drained out that nasty water and filled again for the main wash, it would open the dispenser and let out That second fill would have a head-start And in case you're thinking this is some lost art, The lid of the dispenser has a divot labeled pre-wash, Detergent pods and tablets, while they are a convenient concept, break this pattern. And especially if you have an older dishwasher which wasn't born those products can, frankly, suck. Now, I know many of you out there and by all means you should keep using 'em if you're happy. But if you're not happy with your dishwasher, or you're a value-obsessed Midwesterner like I am, here's Tip Number 4: try a more basic detergent product If your dishwasher doesn't have just add a little extra along the door or directly into the wash tub. Something like a tablespoon will be fine. And if you're skeptical that this will actually do anything, well your dishwasher still has that dispenser, right? It's still holding the detergent back until the second fill, So give it a try. It can't hurt. Speaking of giving things a try, this time touting CycleSync(tm) technology: Right Ingredient ++ ASTERISK right time! What does that mean? [clears throat] "Finish(r) Ultimate is our first ever tablet with ASTERISK to act at the right time." That sure implies that these will align their vibes with my machine or something. But is there anything to that implication? First, let's put one of these tablets in my dishwasher and let it run for a bit. Yeah, it all dissolved in a matter of minutes so if I didn't put this in the dispenser (which the instructions explicitly tell me to do) all of it would have drained out after 10 minutes. So it doesn't appear to be anything to do They're just making this prettier. Since my dishwasher doesn't have a hole in its side, I'll pour hot water from the tap into this glass pan Yeah it's just... it's just all oozing out once the membrane is breached. I should note I tried this last time with their compressed tablet things it completely dissolved in my dishwasher after 10 minutes. So what do they even mean by CycleSync? Let's find where that asterisk leads. Oh and by the way this is actually called a double dagger It's on the bottom - of course it is. Enzyme. That's it? The word Enzyme? The protease and amylase enzymes that are also found The Enzymes that work best at high temperatures I don't know if you see how sneaky it is to put that mark The thing is, if it's not clear already, these are just tablets of soap dressed up to seem important. Your dishwasher is the thing doing the work, And not to get too tin foil hat on you, for a commodity product like dishwasher detergent. Powders and gels tend to live a sad life on the bottom shelf but I sincerely think these are the better products and they're a better value, to boot. I much prefer powder because it comes but gels are much more readily available. However, powder products can contain both bleach and enzymes which aren't stable together in a liquid, so powders are usually more effective. If you can find them. However - there's a wrinkle. But it's double-edged. One of the reasons I like powder and gel is because If you have soft water, you likely need to use very little But if you have hard water, you'll need to use more. Also, how soiled your dishes are affects things, too, because the detergent gets "used up" and I strongly believe that the two-dose structure of traditional you're not expecting the detergent to do But the tabs and packs are, though, The wrinkle in dosing it yourself, though, The cups in the dispenser are big for those of you who have but most people don't. So if you're trying out a powder or gel product and find you're using too much detergent and the final rinse couldn't get rid of it all. The boxes don't explain that - they say to You'd be surprised how little you actually need. I really appreciate being able to fiddle with this (and I've discovered I only need to fill the cup up but your brain may vary. Detergent packs force a one-size-fits-all but it usually works and there are many people who would prefer that. Those four tips: look for filters and clean them, run the kitchen tap until the water's hot before you start the machine, use the detergent dispenser and close the lid, and finally consider using a basic detergent product are what I consider the most important things to try. I have used some astoundingly cheap dishwashers in my time that thing didn't even have a sprayer for its top rack, and boy was it loud. But it cleaned everything just fine and with Walmart brand detergent! The only thing I can attribute my seemingly perfect dishwasher scorecard to and always running the kitchen tap until it's hot before I started the cycle. Now we've blown past the 20 minute mark so I'll finish up with a lightning round of other tips you might try. If none of what I've gone over seems to be helping, Limescale and other forms of buildup can clog the sprayer nozzles and many products are available which help to get rid of those deposits. I'm partial to products like this which come in a bottle: you insert them upside-down and a wax plug holds the product back When I use these, I actually don't run the water hot first and I use the machine's tough setting with the high-temp wash option selected. I've used both this Glisten product and Note the Finish product has a heavy perfume which lingers through several washes. You can also use a product like Lemishine which is just powdered citric acid. If a deep cleaning of your dishwasher still doesn't fix things, your dishwasher likely has a worn out pump impeller or something else is mechanically wrong, or, you may have the rare actually-bad dishwasher model, If your dishwasher's detergent dispenser is broken first - you might try your hand at replacing it if you feel up to it. Replacement parts are often available, and this is YouTube! I'm sure there are many guides out there, possibly for your specific dishwasher. Though I won't be endorsing any of them. But even without a functional dispenser, Express or Eco cycles often don't do a pre-wash fill and open the dispenser right away. Those are typically options for a faster wash I don't know what dishwasher you have, but you can listen out for it draining If some cycles begin with it spending 30 or 40 minutes with the same water, But if your dispenser works, the normal cycle (or Auto cycle) Speaking of cycles, though, The tough settings don't make the washing action stronger, So give it a try. If you have a high-temperature wash option that might be good to try, too, though I will say that in my experience using it Same goes with the sanitize option - I really only use that Next - rinse aids. Use them. This isn't a scam, and most dishwashers have a rinse aid dispenser It'll squirt a little bit of this stuff out in the final rinse, and all that it is is a very mild surfactant which reduces the surface tension of water, This is particularly helpful to use if you have hard water, you'll need more the harder your water is. This stuff is so simple there's no need to go name-brand. Just get the cheap stuff. And, to European viewers, many of your dishwashers So make sure ya got that on hand and fill it up if you need to. If you aren't able to find powders or gels in your area, I would recommend trying the cheapest You may very well find they work great! And if they don't, try mimicking what you can do with powder and gel Pods are quite concentrated so that runs the risk of it leaving a residue, I honestly wish detergent people would make a two-section pod I probably still wouldn't use that because I find powder in a box but that feels like a useful option. Oh, and in case you might find using this box difficult, That might also help if you live somewhere very (but, not for nothing, I never have that problem here in And lastly, I didn't really want to go here but make sure you're loading the dishes correctly. The sprayers are below the racks Additionally, since the sprayers rotate around the center of the machine, When I'm loading it, the left-hand side looks like this, Also be sure things aren't bunching together and this is important - make sure those sprayer arms can spin freely. Tall items in the bottom rack can stop the top rack's sprayer from spinning, and that's not good. A whole lot of stuff will get hardly any water The top rack is often adjustable so if stuff on the top rack is often dirty for you, give that a try. And be mindful that on either rack, so if you're washing something that's really dirty, And I think that's it. I want to reiterate that if you're not having problems with your dishwasher, you don't have to change your habits But, gosh, I'd really like more people to just buy plain powder My local Walmart keeps just a single slot of shelf space I'm to the point of checking for it every time I stop in And while I don't want to say pods don't work (clearly they do for many people) Many people reported that their dishwashers were cleaning like never before I'm reasonably sure you'll see many comments like that below this video. Your dishwasher is responsible for 99% of the work. Detergents are necessary, of course, but it's just soap. And I for one think that luxury soap products which go into a machine and are silly. Thanks for watching, and here's to clean dishes!