10 reasons why Christians will go through there's a huge controversy concerning this. We there will be a rapture of the believers, and Antichrist and his whole kingdom is going to be there will be the mark of the beast and all of season? There's a lot of people believing that we they have reasons for that. And I'm going to go very popular view, very common view but I believe whole idea that Christians cannot have demons, debunked or you know gifts of the Holy Spirit are we're going to look at quite a few different you cannot come to that conclusion that Christians you start with that view from the beginning the Bible to justify or to confirm your view. As a crime scene for example, he doesn't bring his to create a conclusion for him. And I want you some of these Scriptures and some of these I want to challenge your view. There's a reason one is it's the new popular doctrine that was that Christians will skip the great tribulation. Bible teacher, he made this view very popular, &quot;The Late Great Planet Earth&quot; by Hal Lindsay and to become popular in the west. But for 1800 years, view concerning the tribulation and the rapture. they split the return of Jesus Christ into two the Bible does not teach that. Now no matter the rapture before the tribulation and then the coming, okay. We're not just going to Him, we're all right. No matter how much you try to play the Which means that there will be two second comings. times in the New Testament. Paul refers to it in the second coming is mentioned eight times more books in 1 and 2 Thessalonians and chapters of No one can come to the conclusion that there without starting with that view in the you have to allow the Scripture to inform your the Scripture. Especially on the portions of the one second coming. Not two. The third reason Holy Spirit will be removed because He's the But then we have a problem is that there will be saints? Like will they not have the Holy Spirit? will be people who will lose their life, they What's going to happen to them? How are they able the mark of the beast or not take the mark of the fact in Revelation 13:7-8 it says, &quot;It was granted to overcome them. And the authority was given to who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose of the Lamb that was slain from the foundation his mark. who will not take his Mark? Those and only those whose names are not written in means that during tribulation there will be people Holy Spirit is going to be with them. There is Spirit will not be here with those saints. Now the the Bible happens after Jesus's coming or at Jesus of Christ. Not before the tribulation. Like for This is the first resurrection. Now before I continue, so I want you to notice, the first resurrection? It's the people that they lived with Christ and they reigned with believers being raptured who were alive. And to meet the Lord in the air as they came down, the first resurrection. So if during rapture and this happened seven years before that, as Revelation 20, say that the first resurrection or did not take the mark of the beast? And that means the other one is not the that's just the first one. And the second raised from the dead and they will face the great Now the fifth reason is that the passages with Him saving us from the seven-year tribulation push back for you know that we will go through from the wrath to come. Which is 100% true. 1 Thessalonians 5:9. And in Revelation 15:1, it poured out on this earth. And so for many people the wrath of God, because if we are then why are understanding that we have which is flawed, that it means we have to be removed from the earth understand that tribulation is not uniquely a time this world. In fact He continues to pour out His 2 Chronicles 34:21-25. Lamentations 2:4, Jeremiah 44:6, Ezekiel 28, Ezekiel 20:13, Ezekiel 20:21, falls during the present age. Though it's not Paul is referring to God's wrath that we are saved fact he's referring to the destruction at Christ's in First Thessalonians, is the Greek term for Revelation, refers not to the tribulation but at the coming of Jesus Christ. So passages are dealing with the damnation at the final short period of time that will be experienced by Paul wrote this to, they didn't experience that and they died, and so the Bible talks to us that will be pouring out His wrath, He will protect that Israel was protected when God was pouring out of Egypt, until at the end. Now I'm going to read That's also in Isaiah 17:1. So it's talking remember any other time that this has happened? natural calamities. We're talking about God's any other time that this has happened, except the future coming of the pouring of God's wrath, and out. He says, My people I want you to shut your will protect you. As God did with Israel in Egypt. does it say that the churches in Revelation speak and that the church in Philadelphia was raptured is used to say that Christians will not go through out of context. Where it says that God promised to trial that is going to come upon the whole world, that message was to that church. Now we always those churches. But to be able to take each church stretch okay. Now that could make a good sermon nowhere in the Bible where that is implied. church. There was one more church after the church see the what pre-tribbers like to do is they say, of Philadelphia and the lukewarm church at the trying to fit something within this view and of letting the Scripture speak to us. There is these churches were relating to the church age. we all can benefit from because all Scripture this speaks of a particular church age is a huge In fact the word that is mentioned for the church hour of trial, like study the history. You will trial. Meaning He protected them somehow. They about it. But that word there, he will keep them, Meaning God is able to protect us from His wrath the storm, like He did for Noah. A way of escape distinction between us and the world as He did for that says that pretty much this is Philadelphia tribulation and they will be raptured to heaven. an imposed view. It's eisegesis, not exegesis of we will go through tribulation is the church is in the Revelation. That's the argument that raptured. But the counter argument to that is the heaven in the Book of Revelation. So let's give about 19 times in the first three chapters messages are given to these seven churches. not used again until chapter 22. And so pretty we see a great tribulation, we see a lot of stuff Bowls and trumpets and seals being broken, and so church will not be during the tribulation. that is not a sign at all. The same thing as the does not mean the Trinity is not real. And you the time of chapter 4 all the way till chapter not one time. Does that mean the church is not on earth we see that there were saints. Guess what also see that there will be saints worshiping and in heaven because we don't see the mention of it, mention of it. The church is on earth but those so that is a very weak argument to say that the the word &quot;church&quot; is not mentioned during that right before the hell breaks loose, God says to Yeah, that's a huge stretch. You cannot say that say that to the church. And so it's very important what we want it to mean. Instead of let the number eight of why we will go through the great deals with Israel. It does not say that the church will go through. Now pre-tribbers like to make how God has totally separate plans for them. And like to present. The 77s of Daniel chapter 9:24 Israel, on Daniel's holy city which is Jerusalem. week the tribulation is the time of purging and entire prophecy of these 70 weeks is speaking of an implication that the church will not be there. mean that the church will not be there. The reason and Lot do not prove that God will take us out of God during the time of Noah, He removed the God removed Lot from His wrath but not from the was supposed to destroy and God preserved that God actually protected her in the very city it was a supernatural miracle. The wall, the house didn't take Rahab out, until He moved in with His protected her right in the middle. As I've plagues that attacked Israel and Egypt, and then Israel and Egypt while they were in Egypt. and God preserved them in it. Now I understand, this was not you know God bringing the fire. It But in the case of Rahab, in the case of Israel, was God's wrath, it was God's judgment and God Now the 10th reason that I believe that we will of the Lamb will be taking place after the great talks about the great marriage supper of the So this is the only verse that actually deals people actually expected the Messianic banquet to finally be consummated. And there is no text during the tribulation, while everybody's going it is only as Jesus is about to return to judge that the great marriage supper of the Lamb has verse 7. Such an announcement that what has come of the slaughter of the enemies of God, all of the us this particular timing that there will be a fall of great Babylon, right as Christ is coming. which the corpses of Christ's enemies are devoured we will have a great supper while the Jewish to come back with Jesus. It's just not in the you can't get that meaning from there unless not that we need a bonus reason of why we will you are like, &quot;Okay, I'm done with this video. bubble. I do not want to be told that I'm going to the great tribulation is different from a normal degree yes and no. But it's the same word actually &quot;In this world you will have tribulation.&quot; You great tribulation. 2 Timothy 3:12, Paul says in will be persecuted. We will have tribulation, we great tribulation there will be both the wrath or an outpouring of God's Wrath. God will protect Antichrist, we will not be protected from that. of the enemy. For example, persecution. Sometimes like He broke Peter out of prison, He intervened for the cause of Christ and we look with joy to look for an escape from that and we preach the see in the Book of Revelation, Antichrist will Meaning they will be killed, slaughtered. They their life. And so it's not just going to be God the world's government. This one government, you the world with signs and wonders, deceiving sheep led to the slaughter. And that part protect us from. When God will be pouring out His in the middle of that, I will be protecting were not promised protection. If you believe that great tribulation, you are in risk of taking the that there's no way we're going to be here during concerning your planning for the future. I want to to stay. And even when we're going to be raptured back on this earth. Even after Jesus makes new this earth. This earth belongs to God, and I'm finally transform this into paradise. I don't going to get worse and things are going to get I do believe that God has called us to preach the His kingdom. Your kingdom come, Your will be plans. Make plans as though you will live for make disciples, plan churches, start small groups, news to other people. But live with urgency for watching this video. Hey let me know in the to go through great tribulation or not? Are you to happen or not. Hit thumbs up to this video. I share this with other people, so that Christians live with an expectation and be prepared for