[French spoken audio] In Aubagne near Marseille, at the recruitment center [French spoken audio]. For whoever wants it is here that it all begins, but before wearing there will be many severe hurdles Eight thousand candidates but only 1,000 are selected. The first step is the recruiting office. Do you want to enter the Foreign Legion? What nationality are you? Tell him to empty his pockets The Foreign Legion, The majority are For many, I'm from the streets. To be honest, I'm hoping my luck will change, As this candidate, there are many The Foreign Legion I live in Nice, because I did nothing I believe in the Legion and afterward, I'll be a man. Every day, of 15 candidates Why do you want To change my life, I grew up in France, I know France. I owe nothing to Turkey, so I want to join the French Army. One of the particularities is the obligatory change of identity As you know, you were going to be recruited Therefore, Your declared Your father's first name Let's call him Abdel. Don't worry, after you'll have the papers, To join up, Besides, here one doesn't say French, The Legion gives him Swiss, Belgian, Canadian, or Monegasque. You're going to join does that suit you? Well, that's no problem for me. Now, I'm a small part of the Legion. This morning, and face the selection procedure Novikov, Ukrainian, aged 27, Lidleson, Brazilian, 30, Munteanu, Romanian, 26, Rudin from Kazakhstan, 18. Zuba, Ivory Coast-Croatian, 27, and Bernie French-Swiss, 29. Right now, This is not a holiday camp. You're here from two to ten days, If anyone thinks he can't cope with that, It's not even worthwhile to continue. Undress. In the barracks, They may not yet be part of the military, a simple tracksuit. When you hear your name, reply. Get your bags, and everything on the table. To belong to the Foreign Legion, Go down there. Personal belongings, are all confiscated by the Legion That's a tough start, and it's only the beginning of the tests Now, three selective tests Let me explain. A psycho-technical test. Those that have the mental aptitude you'll get no further. If the test results is less than ten, Cooper test. One asks you to run a minimum Those of you who are tortoises you'll be packing your bags. For the less fit, You'll never make it. Keep going. Go. One shouts a little They've done all right, Yes, you had to hang in there. That's what we've got to do, Medical test, if your members are healthy, Well, given all the tests that await them, There's no lying It's a chance to get a European passport. We look out for anybody who might be lying The group passed the first three tests Their hair is cut the Legion way. It's another step the regulation of two millimeters Do you feel like you're Legionnaires? Well, I hope nearly. Nevertheless, there's a feeling of unity, We're starting to bond as a unit. There are those and those who didn't because they failed one The Legion calls them the repressed. For a lot of these men, A simple train ticket is in their pockets, For the group that stays on, More tests await them. Stand to attention in two ranks. Lineup. The holidays are finished. You wanted it, and now you're in it. You're right in it. You'll be here to serve in the Foreign Legion I want you all to think. You've got three minutes. It's your last chance to change your mind. If you don't want to go back you stay. Now's the chance. Anybody want to leave? Raise your hands. Somebody wants to go back home? Nobody? Sure? Okay. Form up outside. Go. You're being quite aggressive, Well, it is my role, it's normal. I want them I mean, this is the army. We train them in the old-fashioned way. They wanted to become real soldiers. Come on, form up facing me in one column. At ease. The psychological pressure never ends. Munteanu, Zubair, all are going to prove The corporal in charge of recruits, without moving, and facing the sun. People may wait, If the people are not motivated, The people who are motivated that this is part Come on, wake yourselves up. Come on, form up facing me in one column. No, that's crap, wake yourselves up. At ease, over here now! Better, at ease. Well, I hope that they are as motivated I dreamt of wearing the white kepi, For them, it's the same thing. They think of Africa, the desert, Someone who comes to the Legion to be a man, to spend life with a white kepi, It's something sacred, but you have to earn the right In addition to the tests, every candidate In terms of safety, we don't take recruits who have murdered, People with a serious criminal past. Sit down. Zubair, Croatian nationality. Where did you learn your French? Well, in the Ivory Coast, to be more precise, How come you're Croatian? Well, my mother was Croatian. Have you had any problems -Never. Never. Do you take drugs? Well, some, I did once, Do you have any debts No. Why are you here? You have no problems. Do you still stay in touch Yes, we get on fine. To me, there could be a little love story Does she miss you since you separated? -No. I asked him to be very precise, A sentimental disappointment, There's always a reason. It doesn't last a very long time, usually. Anyway, I'm not really sure All candidates undergo several interviews, Their answers Their pasts will be studied carefully. To this end, the recruiting officers Searching for individuals takes barely a few hours. If the Legion refuses serious crime, it turns a blind eye For a few, When someone is accepted into the Legion, his secrets, whatever they are, Hurry up. Come on, stand to attention Is that how I showed you Head up. Be proud of your future as Legionnaires. Well, some of you. Tighten up your belts. Come on, I don't want cowboys out here. Now we're seeing Novikov, step out of the ranks. Come over here. Stand to attention properly. Head up. That's better. Legionaire, I am a volunteer, and every Legionaire is... That's crap. I noticed Coca-Cola I've told you to have black coffee. No chocolate, Otherwise, Face right. Breakout. Is it difficult for the foreigners? No, it's not difficult at all. It's just a question of willpower. They have everything they need and the Legis code of honor Learning the honor code is obligatory. It's also the means Bernie, the French-speaking recruit, After one week of tests and observation, what's at stake Okay, the committee can begin its work. We've got 30 candidates today, and we can only take 17 of them, Okay, let's start with the first Bernie. Wise, open, communicative, educated, Yes, good. He's passed the military degree course, I have a favorable opinion too, He's hired. Next. The only question mark He thought seriously about it He said it was all over. Okay, well, let's see. Okay, we'll take him. Volunteer recruit, Zubair. Novikov, very motivated. He never even got his visa, so he crossed the borders illegally He got a visa for Poland, he made his own way here, Rudin, the kazakh, and Munteanu, the romanian, They are no longer candidates, The first step and one that allows them They have now signed up with honor and loyalty, and they'll be shown the way out. Vortex jacket, in the bag. They received their first pack, and also, The kepi is still wrapped in plastic. Don't touch the kepi. They'll get the chance but just for a few minutes. It's just to try it on, It's just a try. We're still not Legionnaire's yet. They'll earn the right under the condition In the meanwhile, a beret that Zubeir It's not a tractor driver's beret, Put it on properly. The next day, the recruits are leaving for four months training. I hope that in four months and I'll see you in four months' time, Of course, I have no sympathy Right, you're now and you'll be under their orders Close the bags On the eve of departure, and those like Zubeir, Well, some apprehension It'll be completely different -Are you happy to go to Castelnaudary? -Good? Actually, my dream to here. I go to the castle and after the castle, I will make my dream, [French spoken audio] The Foreign Legion's It's maybe this prestige from all over the world However, for the new generation, at least for five years. I came here for discipline, friendship, and money, of course. However, you cannot do this. You cannot be in the Legion, How do you know that you like the army? I like the army I watched movies when I was young. On the approach to Castelnaudary, The Foreign legion's instruction No fear about Castel? No, no fear. If you have fear, you cannot do anything. Mama, Papa, PlayStation. Here, no PlayStation. Near the barracks, in a farm cut-off this is where the recruits spend All right, if you're not tired, Look, where are the targets? Where's the enemy? The strain of military training on the program, sport, assault courses, The recruits learn to go I want to see how far I can go, -Is that part of the challenge? You've got to fight for your place here. You've got five minutes At any moment, those who don't make the grade, [French spoken audio] If one doesn't apply pressure, I would say that for this profession, You can't let them run free. Probably free isn't the right word, Showers at 2200 and then sleep. Even after a long, hard day, Everything is done by the clock. It's all about speed, rush to wash, rush to dress, and especially rush Did you think it would be like this? Oh, I knew it was going to be relentless, Finally, it's time for bed, but before that, At ease. Now listen up, ever again. Where's your towel? Who told you to put the towel down there? No one told me to. See? Under there it's dirty, All right, come on, press-ups. Do you understand what I'm saying now? Yes, corporal. You can all do the beds up again. Come on. That's dirty under there, that's terrible. Okay, sleep now. Don't you ever feel like answering back? That would be worse. You'd be thrown out straight away I've never seen anyone do that. The recruits but here again, there are strict rules. Talking is not allowed, Finally, lights out is at 2230 hours. At the start, the hardest part of the training but learning French. Most of the recruits The aim here is really quite simple. At the end, each soldier should know which comes to about 100 words a month. Here we do things by two, five means fluent, and zero means nothing, so I put a five with a zero, It usually works. Okay, enough classwork, and those who speak French, Monteanu's French is improving rapidly. I learned French in school in Romania, and it's been quite easy What does that French flag mean to you? The French flag? Well, The Legion is French. We're fighting for France We'll be defending the French colors. One month later on the assault course, the volunteers are beginning This is the hostile zone now, now you need to reach Here's the drill. Keep an eye out. You go up by twos, if you see the enemy, and then take cover. Don't forget you're working The aim of this timed obstacle course, is to check how well What counts is not finishing first, Each man has to watch the other's back. With the incessant screaming of orders, the recruits' reflexes are subjected they might face in battle. Oh, I love it. It's physical and it's also tactical. Some basic stuff here. Checking our reflexes. Stuff that we've forgotten, We've lost the skills to watch, listen, After 20 minutes, Right, where have you put your sights? Where's the ring? I put it on seven. Between seven and eight. Move it up, put it up at 140, though. What are you looking for here? Their reactions when they're exhausted, They're tired. We'll see how coherent they are It's hard, you are punished physically. We don't get much sleep anyway, You need every last drop of energy. Overcome the pain and just do it. Now they're just two days away It'll be tough for them, After four weeks of training, By now, the instructors know the recruits and decide if they have the right stuff Bernie is special. He's already got military experience, He's also very good and that's excellent, really excellent. Zubair. Zubair is what we'd call, A kind of coffee shop philosopher. He likes to think things through, Rudin, well, Rudin is a fighter. He'll be going to the 2nd Regiment Monteanu is harder to judge. He works well, he's dynamic, but it's a bit too early Today and tomorrow You all know what that means for you. Those who finish will receive next Monday. It's the most important test the so-called White Kepi March, 50 kilometers, in two days, so long as they finish the course, these volunteers The first 25-kilometer stage Oh, that hurts, that really hurts. Yes, he's got a huge burst blister, Okay, no problem. Today I will sleep, tomorrow I'll be okay. Rudin the Kazakh, Oh, I'm hurting badly. We'll just carry on I'm not going to give up now, There's nothing that works to keep the men going. After a month of hardships, Volunteer Farwood is Australian and leads the section It's a great atmosphere. It's wonderful. Everybody is singing It's great. Do you miss Romania? Yes, a bit, but I'm thinking ahead. can't think of the past, We're in the Army, Like what kind of problems? Just life. Monteanu remains tight-lipped No one here talks of their past. As far as the Foreign Legion is concerned, these men At nightfall, everyone is under canvas. Rudin is settling into his tent. A nice small house, a small house Hey, Rudin. Food, and smoking. Bernei is 29, Rudin is just 18. He's almost like a younger brother, Language remains a barrier. What do I know about Rudin? Not much. I know how he got here, Well, sometimes he talks about his mother, and how he's going to send the money, so that they can have I always wanted army blood runs in my family. My brother fought in Afghanistan However, the Kazakh Army is no good. Now I'm 18, I want a career here. Everybody up. It's an early start. Well, there's a song in the Legion, that it's not enough You need to be the first. You were the first to drink, but you're not the first Today it's back to the barracks, Same distance as yesterday, Therefore, tighten your asses Twenty-five kilometers to go, the pace is quicker than the previous day. The 25-kilo weight of the backpack, seems to be getting heavier After a six-hour march, Rudin is all smiles. He knows he's won his white kepi. He and his comrades are now Legionnaires. Tired, huh? No, I'm not tired. No, I haven't finished yet, and indeed, the day is far from over. First, they have to clean their weapons. Then they'll get a chance to rest, Do you think you finished Zubair? Well, you might think so. Look at this. Listen, you've been cleaning this He told me he'd finished. All right, we'll keep doing it, Even after a forced march you need to keep going, dig in. Just because you're tired, No way, first clean your weapons. That's what it says in the manual. Finally, the reward. All tiredness is forgotten, Oh, it's the best. What does it mean to you? It's the difference between, That's the best. Perfect for military ceremonies. Still missing a few decorations, but give me two years Okay, D-day guys, Volunteers, that you made a few weeks ago. You are about to receive your white kepis. The kepi is the symbol of an elite force with a unique tradition in the name of France. White kepis, on. We swear to serve with honor and loyalty. The Legionnaires oath, Where do you come from, Zubair? -Croatia. Congratulations, welcome to the Legion. Zubair and his comrades but there are still three months before being posted to their regiments. The Foreign Legion welcomes new members with pudding and white wine. Now I'm a Legionnaire. Are you proud? I'm very proud, yes. It's all I've been thinking about I always thought about it. Whether I could make it or not, but I thought I would be able to, and I've done it. It's a wonderful day, it's been my dream. Now it's action. I want to get into action. Nine thousand kilometers away, An adventure park for the Foreign Legion. Just a short distance this is the CEFE, This is where Legionnaires learn These men are part of the 2nd Battalion, They've been in Guyana for a few weeks. They'll stay for two years. For the past week, To meet the tough standards, If they make it, they'll earn the right the Amazon rainforest. There's nowhere to hide out here, and if you can't take it, That's what's good about being here. The ultimate aim These conditions will help achieve The men are aged between 20 and 37, They have all volunteered Men like Corporal Kim, who's from South Korea What did you think it would be like here? It's great, perfect, Come on, are we going to save him? Come on. If you're not even prepared how could I think you're prepared Come here, you. Warrant Officer Lopez is an instructor, He's a living legend in the Legion. See, this is how you carry him, See, I can even run and hold my rifle. He served in the Legion for 22 years, He's out and to spot You don't want to get dirty. Yes, I do, sir. Come on, everyone, pile on top of him. We want To make him feel It'll make him more aggressive. He won't understand that now, but afterward, he'll understand. Have you had enough? Come on, Coover, be a man, keep going. Most Legionnaires are already physically so we focus on their psychological issues. Porter, you're the casualty. Go think like a casualty, Your mission is to survive another day. There are two types of animals, the prey, and the predator, He needs to think We'll reassess him I won't be able to change but physically, but within limits. Sometimes we might get carried away, and that's why just to make sure all is well. The face, come on, Okay, get down! I think they'll be surprised by this. They have no idea what's coming up, Basically, they're clueless. It's a good psychological test. Inside the hood, one of the toughest men in the platoon. Without making any noise, the instructor places a dummy detonator What are you thinking about? I'm waiting to see what's happening, I don't know yet. You haven't even flinched when there was No, it's up to the monitor Now you see, Well, we might get ordered to go anywhere, so you train for things The NCOs here, bust our balls, one day we'll be glad The blaring music It's a way of making it seem Everyone gets the treatment, and the interrogation methods A piece of wood is forced Where do you come from? Which country? It might shock, yes, it might, and certainly for them, It's to see how they react. That they have to show control at the time get the better of them. Control the situation. Control your feelings. You're trained to be aggressive very well paid. You got ten seconds The Legionnaires will now face the rigors The instructors order them into canoes so they can't see where they are. The exercise and with just Look at this, what more could you want? No hammocks, no mosquito nets, In order to get some sleep and protection the men have to build shelters and for food, they'll also need to make do in this case, It's the second day without proper food. Corporal Jung has a temperature. Damn, it's bad. Do you feel cold? I think you might have No, I want to stay. You see he doesn't want to appear weak, I'm sure there are other men who are ill, They see light at the end of the tunnel, Okay you, sir, what's up? -Headache. Since the morning. Hey, you're missing your rum, right? We have a trainee here I'm going to bring him in, Lopez is concerned that, which can be fatal if not treated quickly. Have you already had malaria? You want to go back to your comrades, huh? Yes, I want to go back. It's not up to him anymore. Sending someone out onto a survival course You better stay here, The army would say differently, but they're the ones calling the shots, Corporal Jung tested negative for malaria, an equally dangerous viral infection, He's to be transferred to Kourou, Nights are very long out here, 12 hours, in fact. That's a chance They think about a lot of things out here, At night, Legionnaires usually think and they dream in their own languages. Do you still dream in your mother tongue Sometimes, so it's not too often. What has the Legion meant to you? So much, it's a way of life. Twenty years, that's a whole life. What did the Legion get out of you? Well, it's taken a lot for me, Still, the way I look at it, is that, when I joined up, and so when I leave, the Legion Ten days into their jungle training The men are starting to weaken. Warrant Officer Lopez decides All right. It was a move that wasn't on the program. See, all their smiles have vanished now, and this is not good news The platoon has on a makeshift raft and Gamboa doesn't know how to swim. Are you going to go in the water Well, if we have to, we have to. Where are you going? A one and a half hour long journey but on empty stomachs, Struggling in the water, but is barely keeping afloat. Legionnaires have to know how to swim, especially for duty Warrant Officer Lopez decides -What happens if he can't make it? He'll be considered unfit To get his promotion, Gamboa needs to swim at least 50 meters, Gamboa makes one final effort, but by halfway across, What happened, Gamboa? The current was too strong, sir, You didn't have the strength anymore? That's when your head takes over, I want it, so I'll get it. Are you going to carry on anyway? I will, I'm going to finish this. Gamboa will need to learn to swim, and then take the training course To succeed, he'll need to undergo every step It's the fourth day without food Come on, lift. Sweat is good for you. Your mother's tears. To finish, the instructor is organizing A two-hour march Where do you find the strength I don't know, somewhere inside, It's the adrenaline. Everyone's stronger It's tough, but it's a reminder The Legion didn't call up Come on over. You're the one who joined up so you just shut your mouth The 2nd platoon but Warrant Officer Lopez still has plans the young Frenchman. Did you bring much, Porter? Not much, sir. Not enough? Well, here, go up. My comrades deserve better than this. You don't want my water? Well, your comrades are going to suffer. Come on. Take it. Was that another test? I want to make sure he's suitable. Well, he's better, his willpower is good. Even if physically, but I think he's determined than he thought he could. Training has to be tough. Otherwise, how will we know I know one or two that might drop out, The training has to be hard. I mean, Here we want hunters. We trained them to be predators, to eat meat if you will, but without hate. A predator doesn't hate his prey. Aggressive? Yes. Control and discipline? Okay, man, It's all in your heads now, since you've probably Don't ask, just do it. For two weeks, have coped with all the challenges during the training course. Lieutenant Adboton, the platoon commander, has come to know the men who'll be for the next two years. Corporal Kim has finished in second place and will undergo further training Legionnaire Porter and Corporal Patterson from England, achieved what he had come adventure and inner strength. Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, after more than two an uneasy peace has finally been reached. A multinational force, the ISAF, helps maintain law and order amongst them 500 soldiers The mission is 24 hours a day, If fighting breaks out, The main threat is terrorism. On this particular day, ISAF troops came under fire The 2nd Legion's Infantry regiment Leading the hunt who relay instructions and observations Stay in position, Captain Pelabav is in command and orders his troops via radio. Lieutenant Pascal Your mission is to intercept Only fire in legitimate self-defense. The chase takes the Legionnaires two kilometers from the airport It's a maze of small streets and houses Do you see that little tower? That's where he is. He was looking out a little while ago, If he opens fire, fire back immediately. I have to wait for an interpreter and go inside the compound. Afghan police enter the village and the Legionnaires They are not allowed to use their weapons. The ISAF mission ground rules mean to local authorities Everyone's now waiting and finally, he shows up at nighttime. The Legionnaires but cameras are not allowed. The suspect has inevitably disappeared, but in the courtyard, a well -How deep would you say that is? The captain is intrigued in the middle of the rainy season. The interior search is finished, sir. The troops have to withdraw empty-handed. What's happening, Captain? Well, the suspect has vanished. Probably escaped down the well, which in turn leads Well, now we've got to maintain but hopefully, we'll be able to come back, and check out However, for now, I have to pull out. Well, the mission, yes, Everyone's rushing about The captain ends the conversation there. He is duty-bound to say no more, and he never did get the opportunity Base camp where they serve One more exile for these men, who have already abandoned In Captain Pelabov's unit, Corporal Lesko, 29, is from Slovakia. It's like being back in barracks here, We get on each other's nerves, sometimes, but we drink together, Everything. There are good moments and bad. Every family has its head, The sergeants order, and the corporals order the privates. That's the way it is. In the 4th company's family, the smallest However, he's quite a baby, He's from Argentina, that made him want You see, in my country, That's why I'm here. This whole torso has tattoos. Go on show him, Fernandes. To enroll in the Green Berets, Fernandez To join up, well, I had to sell everything my car, and computer, It's very expensive for people like me. So you abandoned everything? Well, I have a CD player That's it. On duty in Afghanistan, to put on their coveted white kepis, While on duty anywhere outside of France, the equivalent This morning, they will be entitled distributed by the captain himself. Permission to enter, sir. For Foreign Legion, and the time on ritual It's quite an important ceremony. The senior officer deals with a pay that he's earned. Every move is part of the ceremony. At your convenience, captain. The Legionnaires They are mixed up so the ritual something they can all relate to. At your convenience, captain. Like his fellow officers, Captain Pelabov is a stickler Wherever he is posted, he takes with him portraits and of General Jole, The esprit de corps of the Legion and complete it no matter what. It's about the military virtues, It's respecting I admire the notion as it works both ways. It's respect whereby orders are followed and where the senior officer, respects his subordinates if he has to order them in the worst case, and he too will be right there Made up of volunteers from the world over, been a unique and homogenous corps, whose code of conduct [French spoken audio]. The Legion is our country.