Potentially the world's Big runouts, big falls, This will be scary... We are in Annot. Southern France is paradise but this crag is sandstone on gear that you have I'm meeting James Pearson, who will show me Bon Voyage, JAMES: Most of the climbing but you've got in complete harmony with trad climbers, I can look over there over there, and down in the woods, It's a real heaven Here we go! JAMES: I'd been looking for this and I never found anything, Eventually, I gave up. I've got two kids now. I imagined that this dream of finding and I was fine with that. I was really happy and as a more regular climber. Then bizarrely, one day I was back at Annot and just realised that there was I didn't know if I would ever but it was so beautiful that I didn't After probably my longest I was able I've been inviting in the hope and somebody to figure out It's a beautiful crack climb that takes soaring and it links two crack systems on beautiful little pockets. You climb the beginning of Le Voyage and then just before the crux Pretty fun moves on good holds not super good feet where you start There's a final piece of protection in this perfect deep pocket It kind of makes But in all honesty, if any of the next I'm not sure Apart from those holds, I say that the full that's the true My strategy is to first and try the individual sequences So... we'll set up The top of Bon Voyage JAMES: Okay! You, guys, I'll put a sling around this tree, ADAM: It's a strange feeling I never check This gives me a similar kind JAMES: Yeah! Being on a static, working out moves, Actually, the climbing part but I just love A long time ago, where I massively overestimated and that experience has been I guess Bon Voyage in humility to realize that I'm not and to finally to come forward and tell the world What I realize now is what I think about something So hopefully... ... this is what people Just one man's opinion ADAM: So... now we are There is the last gear. JAMES: This is the crucial gear From here onwards, you've got And you don't so you're really happy It's a miracle. Most pockets on the route, You couldn't But just where you need it, It just eats up the cam. It's relatively Not much that can go wrong. Once I've seen it, So good. This is the pinkie If you can. When you're crimping it, You've got to, basically, Or my method was here, That looks ridiculously hard! Those holds are This is gonna be hard! JAMES: This is the crux here. ADAM: I'm just Only the shape of the pocket If your fingers were smaller, I changed my method of crimping Mostly because JAMES: You don't split ADAM: Much harder to split. JAMES: I took a fall It was from a place I ended up falling off this big blade of rock I think I poorly estimated during how dangerous it might be, especially in this one move where you're going around the arete. It's the first time that you're moving which is exactly If there was a little bit You're a long way from your belayer, If you're unlucky and all these I could see a real chance This is the dangerous move, JAMES: That move there ADAM: So this is fine, JAMES: Yeah, I've fallen off What I think could potentially that if you commit to that next one, you fire out of that hold, And if you've got a bit too much slack, This will be quite spicy ADAM: The crux move I'm very curious This one. I think the easiest way to do this move and it feels like your entire forearm So it's a really good idea before we get up there. ADAM: My guess is and I'll just crimp it I'm not very strong The perspective of getting It's maybe more scary Okay, I might JAMES: Come on! ADAM: I'm afraid... This is really small. James was using this as a handhold ... definitely looks You can also use it and go all the way Yeah, to me definitely I'll try the pinkie. JAMES: Everyone &quot;I don't wanna use the pinkie Feels like I think there's but your fingers are fatter than mine, and it's just I let go when JAMES: Where was it hurting? Here? Take the crimp anyway. JAMES: Nice! JAMES: It looks so painful! JAMES: Now you should stop ADAM: I'll go like this, JAMES: I've never Do you crimp ADAM: Quite a lot. All the good raindrops I only crimp them To save the skin on multi-pitches, and crimp only ADAM: The plan now is to check all the sequences, which is not the hardest, it counts a lot JAMES: If I had to choose the most it would be having confidence or having a deep understanding Because only when you can assess you can actually decide Often I hear this question and they say, &quot;James, how are you brave enough And I reply, &quot;How are you stupid enough to fall If you can't trust your protection it's like You're just ADAM: Have you JAMES: To reach what? ADAM: The way I do it, JAMES: Uumm... ADAM: Sorry. This is what I was talking about, JAMES: I'm glad I've seen it There's the first side pull, now you need to build your feet up, and your right hand goes Nice, that's it! Into the crimp slot Right foot up Nice! Left hand in the little pocket, with a finger lock. Ideally, you want your right hand ADAM: Hmm, this rest is not great. It's not good to stop at all... JAMES: On a scale of 1 to 10, ADAM: Not fresh enough No pump, but... I think I need a few more days JAMES: Okay! ADAM: It's not easy, It's French 9a, for sure. I guess I'm relieved because I have this tendency to always underestimate In this one, it just seemed like on top of each other but I still didn't believe Even when I saw him this morning so easily, &quot;Oh no, I've done it again, So if I have him come down and tell me that's the best news I'm gonna Thanks for all the beta! This is the end of the day, Come back in a couple of days, and it's gonna be better. Good luck See you later! I think mentally, it's for me But the extra time is a bit challenging for me I like to keep going. The only time that I stop I think I will have according to that a bit. But I just did the lower part I think it could be It feels casual. but for some reason It's really hard to tell James was saying that in order it felt better for him and not take so much rest. The only place where he was thinking This is the most important hold I don't feel like my pinkie The only time I tried it So I was using the middle finger, but it feels aggressive You have to get in, So I think the safest way I need to try it Feels really sh**ty It's okay to hang Big dilemma... There's also an option Use this really bad crimp I guess The trick is probably Get this but don't pull too much, still hanging on your left arm, You shouldn't strain the finger What I'm really wondering whether it's better to use Yes! I found a different way how to It's very painful here but you can still get it My previous way was Yes! Wow, good! This way is safe. It's maybe a little bit worse that it's actually much better So you have to pull on this sh**ty hold This feels No rotation, so it's safe. [singing] What the fu**? I got to the last rest, just a little more tired There's a little ridge so that indicates the possibility I'll take some rest and think about It's just funny Go for a hard red point and you know But you have to think about different Placing the gear, no matter changes the game I got the last crimp &quot;This time But I was in a weird position Now I need to check this sequence so I'm 100 % sure Oh fu**, what the...? That's incredibly embarrassing, How could I let [whistling] Good news! This time I didn't mess it up JAMES: Nice! ADAM: Thank you! ADAM: Thanks! JAMES: I'm happy ADAM: Yes, I am happy too! It's a masterpiece, JAMES: I'm so happy to come and do it, JAMES: That means everything. In total, it's definitely as hard If you are bold enough. JAMES: Okay! ADAM: Thanks! So, perhaps this will be it! After having having realised that it's the difficulty kind of having made It might finally be the time at least for a few years, with my family, and really make the most I don't know, you can call me A TRAD climber, Don't confuse me