every four years the best team but today it'll be decided as Italy are the defending Champions their land is now the hill and each round this wheel will pick a country so let's say the wheel lands on Germany, Germany would have to travel through Austria first but Austria aren't happy being invaded and they will defend their as neither team is King, this so if Germany score first, they take over but if Austria score first, they take over Germany the last country holding up first will be... Netherlands and for the Netherlands to get to Italy who aren't happy with them invading their land now this is already a matchup worthy of a final and it's crazy to think that the first shot who will score first? Germany with a chance here it's Muller to Wirtz can he end it? and he ends it just like that in the 9th minute! it really was the first shot on target Germany is moving on - and Netherlands just like that who is up next wheel... the Czech Republic and if the Czech Republic want to get to Italy they'll have to go through Austria Czech Republic does look better on paper but it only takes one shot Czech Republic with a chance here is Vitik, to Hlozek will he find an option in the Provod and it's all over! as the Czech Republic now border Italy the next time the wheel lands on them they will be able to take on the king next up will be... Serbia Serbia have a long journey to Italy and this one's going to be interesting Serbia... can't get this ball out of their half we're in the 30th minute, the longest match yet what an attack! what a goal by Budimir! what have I just seen Croatia defeat Serbia with an a bicycle kick I can't believe he hit that which country will we see in round four... Scotland I never know if I do a good accent is that is that a good acc- Scotland? I don't think so I think it's really bad actually and they too have a very with their first stop being England good luck. the last time these two countries but here only one goal will decide it will England be able to defend their land they have a good start here it's Bellingham can this be the quickest goal yet? it is! under 3 minutes for England to defeat Scotland what a start for this English side and of course Bellingham it's pretty cool it is we're in round five and the King who is up next it's Belgium the fastest way for Belgium to another matchup worthy of a final but even with so many good France is the favourite to their team is stacked it's Mbappe, beats one can he beat another? what was he doing there? I guess it all is part of the plan... but what a save! or did he just hit that over the net what a horrible shot that should have been the game winner right there Griezmann waiting for it at the top of the box it's Giroud... to Griezmann will he take it from distanc... he doesn't it's Rabiot... and this time he puts it away it's 1-0 France Belgium have been eliminated yeah I just realized Rabiot is left footed no wonder he missed that earlier chance which country will we see next... it's going to be Switzerland which means Italy will finally as king but as this is a match against the King but a regular football match Italy already with a good chance and it's 1-0 Switzerland are lucky this isn't first goal wins how will Switzerland respond to that... with a chance already Granit Xhaka Embolo... off the crossbar what a chance that was for Switzerland Switzerland with a chance here they let him walk in and it goes through Donnarumma's legs! poor goalkeeping gives Switzerland some life here it's Barella with loads of room to Berardi... to Raspadori and he makes it 2-1 how are they letting him just walk in like that? can they equalize once again... Lotomba... with options in the middle... it's Ambolo and it's 2-2! what is Donnarumma doing? Italy's crown is in trouble a chance for Switzerland can they win it? and they do! so - an unlikely hero Italy have fallen they couldn't even defend their land for one match Switzerland are the new King of the Hill what a first touch - magnificent! who is up next wheel... Romania Romania has two options to get to the or they can go through Hungary and after what Croatia did to Serbia I think that Romania rather go through Hungary Romania with a chance here to win it - a and they make it count in and it's off the crossbar! Romania on the counterattack options in the middle lets him walk in and it's all over! Romania have done it in 79 minutes! Hungary defended well - but one still so many nations we haven't seen play and it's Poland up next but before they take on the king they'll the Czech Republic already with but Poland does have fresh legs how will this one go now it's Lewandowski the captain back to Slisz takes it himself gives it to Lewandowski to Swiderski takes the shot but it's a great save Poland with another corner here, but they may have to wave goodbye to still a chance here... takes the shot great save the deflection Lewandowski to end it and he does! Poland move on! finally they win a game in who do we got up next... Denmark for them to get to the hill they'll but they might surprise us, then again this German side defeated and they look to do it here again it's Sane out wide to Kimmich to Sane... look at the start they have it's Wirtz... to end it already it's blocked Denmark have survived 45 minutes will they be able to get one in the second Hojlund... to end it! Germany have been eliminated right Damsgaard puts it away past Turan a defensive mistake and half the team still on the will we get a new one this time... we won't we're going to do Croatia but for Croatia to get onto the Kings who is making their debut in this tournament tough opponent for their first match I don't know how long they're going to last Slovenia with a chance already what a start this would be... and now there's been a free kick Slovenia with a chance to end Kampl... to end it and he hits the wall what was that? now it's Croatia on the attack how many free kicks are there let's see what Modric does... swings it in and it's in! the camera didn't move in time! but it's Budimir getting his second goal first he got that bicycle kick and now he ends it against Slovenia what a tournament this gentleman is having who is up next wheel... Spain will they end up like Belgium Rabiot what's the hero against Belgium if there even is one now France on the counterattack it's Theo Hernandez the left back walks in! takes the shot but it's blocked Mbappe still with it what was he doing someone changes battery now this is a chance it's Rabiot on his left foot and he puts it away! his second goal of the tournament another elimination for Adrian Rabiot! France take over Spain and can we get a new country this time... it's going to be Turkey turkey has a long journey first - they'll need to good chance for Albania Broja... still with it drops it off to Asllani from distance it's blocked but it might have hit a hand it is a free kick right this is their chance to upset this Turkish side now I don't think this free kick I went into the replays and this ball why do they have a free kick? can they take advantage of if they win it I'm not even celebrating and that might be the most is this allowed - should we replay this match? I don't think it's fair for turkey and if Albania are the better team imagine they get another free kick off if that happens I'm just going to let him win Turkey with a chance here great cross and it goes in! Turkey have defeated Albania in the rematch! they will be moving on France, Denmark, Poland and will they play in this next round France is taking on the King as you can hear by the trumpets - will Switzerland be able to defend or will France be the new king&gt; what a giveaway by the Swiss defence Mbappe to Giroud and it's 1-0! the contenders lead the king is looking shaky a poor tackle right outside the box gives and it's a straight red card for Zakaria! one of the dumbest tackles I Mbappe to put this match away... fakes it to Griezmann.... lays it off walks in and it's a really bad shot 90th minute - can they put another one in it's Coman it doesn't go in - but it doesn't matter and Switzerland are erased from the map France is the new King 10 Nations remain on the wheel who is up next... Slovakia but before they get to attack the Poland put on a dominating can they do it again here against Slovakia it's been all Slovakia so far... can Lewandowski do something can he Inspire this Polish nation? Slisz... back to Lewandowski ...and then he tries to get a red card what are you doing Robert?! wait what a giveaway to end it! and Lewandowski does it! it was all part of his plan! Poland defend their land and never doubt the Polish goat next up will be... Georgia and I think they have the longest they'll have to beat Turkey first some may say Turkey's first win was controversial here they have a chance to prove and already there's a free kick it's not too far from goal can they convert this? takes the shot... and it goes in! what a strike by Calhanoglu! Georgia already eliminated in their first match will we see the king defend their land... yes we will - it's Denmark up next play the trumpets it's hard to believe that Mbappe will we see one tonight? this is their chance Coman doesn't play it now he does Griezmann... to Giroud... to Coman to Giroud - I mean that's Griezmann takes the shot is that a foul it's a penalty! France with a chance to take and who else but Mbappe steps up to take it can he get his first goal of the tournament? oh what a penalty cheeky cheeky boy it is the 20th minute and France lead 1-0 now free kick for France at can they make this count? and they do it's Rabiot once again brand in the driver's seat now - France have held on for their 2-0 win what a performance by the Kings and they'd get a much needed but instead of traveling through they decided to try their luck in Poland and it was the best decision that they made because only 11 minutes in a shot meaning Poland was eliminated and Romania we're moving on to the next round which country will we see next... England they will be taking on the king lots of pressure on both of these nations countries that I believe can which one will win today&gt; England finally with a chance to Harry Kane... to Saka to take the lead! England have the lead against the King! what a confidence booster how will France respond? the English are running circles around the French Saka... to Kane to double their lead and they have! what a story this is Harry what is that celebration though? I will be shocked if they could somehow come back Rabiot - it's blocked and it's Dembele with the rebound it's 2-1 it's not over just yet the substitute making the difference England... just seconds to seal the deal it's Harry Kane! England are the new King France have fallen which team will we see next... Ukraine and the only way to get to the Kings land is to go through Romania. Romania to end this one quickly to Alibec still with it! takes the shot off the goal line! he puts it away what a goal by the Romanian! I think the Ukrainian keeper will have and just like that five teams remain in Europe Portugal Romania Croatia Turkey and the King, England we have yet to see Ronaldo in this as Turkey are up next and they're going to play Croatia Turkey putting Croatia under some and it's a great save off the line! how has that not gone in? how important will that save be for Croatia? never mind Croatia is out Turkey move on! a great save in one moment and then he lets that in who would have thought these three but finally we get to see Ronaldo's debut a debut against the King as well now this is England's third match, they should be a little more tired than Portugal Ronaldo... looking to make something special happen and that's what he does Portugal with a chance already it's he walks in from distance... it hit Ma - oh it's a penalty! it hit Maguire's hand! did it actually hit his hand though? oh yeah that is a penalty Portugal with their chance to take and who else but Cristiano Ronaldo steps up I swear if he doesn't score this... oh! oh he didn't sc - what was that? and Portugal make this corner kick count? Ronaldo, to Otavio to Palhinha from distance and it's a save by Pickford is this England's chance to take the lead? Grealish! and he runs out of room options in the middle! Diogo Jota! what the heck are you doing? to win it! Fernandes! and it's blocked! this one needs extra time to Saka... is this their chance to score and win it? what was that cross that may have been one of the England get what they wanted 120 Minutes without a goal I almost fell asleep will we see some action here Pickford can end it now with a save... oh he was so close! Foden can't miss puts it away the confidence all the pressure on Portugal they must score... Joao Cancelo Pickford has guessed the right but he hasn't been able to reach it will this be the one he saves? Diogo Dalot... looking a little shaky puts it away Stones... steps up and it's a save by Diogo Costa! all the pressure now on Pickford he must save this! and Portugal are the new King! England have been eliminated! Ronaldo a chance at another Euro trophy now which country will take on Portugal first... Romania they've had a fairytale run up to this moment will they be able to take down Portugal? I doubt it a chance for Romania here to take the lead oh it's off the post! Romania it's 1-0! the Portuguese cannot what an upset this would be for the Portugal looking to equalize... Ronaldo and it's all level! he missed it against England, now a chance for Romania in extra time I think they want a penalty shootout it's Marin... it's 2-1 Romania! Portugal - on the brink of elimination to Romania how is this a thing? this may be Portugal's final chance... Guerreiro, with space to dribble... to Ronaldo to equalize in the 120th minute! and he does! this one's going to a penalty shootout! do not count Portugal out just yet! now we're in round four Jota, and it was close Romania can't afford a miss here... and he saves it! Portugal remain King of the Hill and we've had so many Kings sit in the throne but only one can be the true champion will Portugal be able to defend their land? or will Turkey - who were given be able to take the throne from Ronaldo what a journey this has been regardless and it's already a foul [Announcer] Portugal play the free kick sure he's got loads of room to that was the worst shot I think I've ever seen lots of room for Turkey to dribble here will they be able to copy Calhanoglu with space and it's 1-0 in the 8th minute! exactly how it went against Romania maybe this is Portugal's game plan but it's a weird one I'll say that now Portugal with some room will he take it from distance... they're giving him the room deflected - but it's Bernardo Silva and it's 1-1 and it's all level once again when Portugal won the Euros they have a chance here against Turkey I don't know how there hasn't Ronaldo has been substituted off I don't know why maybe he got injured just like but now Turkey have a chance oh no this does not look good... it's Kokcu from distance but it's an easy save for Costa a chance now to get the winner - Guerreiro but it's saved! Ronaldo would have scored that approaching the final 5 which of these two teams will be the final King? can they do it now... a chance 117th minute Jota tries to beat the defender he can't but they give it away Jota - to end it and he does! what a strike from Diogo Jota! Portugal in the driver's seat will they be able to hold on and be Turkey have run out a time Portugal are the true Kings of Europe! and if you enjoyed this video and if you want to watch another video... I think you're going to love this one right here make sure to click it I'll see you guys soon PEACE:)