neurodevelopmental disorder that levels of hyperactive and impulsive as extreme difficulty sitting still focusing attention on a single task. The first recorded mention of British pediatrician described behavior like typical children. While ADHD is more commonly seen in of adults with ADHD is estimated to with the dominance leaning toward times as frequently as females. My name is Anthony Padilla and down with people who have ADHD heavily misunderstood disorder. Do those with ADHD simply with and managing their achieve a life of contentment? Or do they find themselves by distracting impulsive to function in the way modern Hello, Jessica. [music] -Joey. -Bex. -Thank you so much for me about the world of ADHD I wish somebody had taught - [laughs] What do you consider Someone who may be a little impulsive than you wish? -I would consider myself hyperactive, -All the things. -Yes, to both. -Can you describe what -The big thing that I wish I had executive functions and not just also the ability to hold a lot you work with it, working memory. It affects self-regulation, sleep, it affects our ability -Can you describe what types of -Restlessness. As you can see, I'm moving a lot Lack of impulse Like you go out to a store I know I'm guilty of [laughter] Okay, I'm not going to lie. Don't get me started on Pogs. -Then another one is just focusing. I'm trying to do animation, draw and focus on that is the -There are all these TikTok trends exhibition, every single one &quot;Damn, no, yes, okay, well.&quot; About two of them in, I went, listen, what were we doing?&quot; They were like, &quot;You're going to Do you ever space out things and have to go back? I'm like, &quot;I'm just going -Inattention. Everything distracts me. I can't filter out any information. I keep thinking of everything from one thing to the next and It's not that I don't want to. I know that something can be really, there and try to focus on something to the point where I'm in tears. -When did you first start exhibiting -I believe it was around teacher who was super understanding to my mom and dad, &quot;Your kid -Distracting or distracted? -Distracting and distracted. I [laughs] was a problem for students would just put me in a corner and don't talk to anybody, don't interact -Always really but nobody was gifted student to the point where went to our pediatrician, and he was My mom was like, &quot;Well, She's a gifted student.&quot; He was like, &quot;She can't have ADHD.&quot; That was the thinking at thinking, but the truth is, -Can you explain how your who doesn't have ADHD? -When I wake up in the morning, everything that I need to do for attempt to do it all at once. Generally, what ends up happening is not really do anything with my day -It's like you can't compartmentalize I could do this hour, this is You think of everything you stop thinking about how you -Or if there's a specific thing go down that rabbit hole, because many things, or you can be hyper not be the most productive thing. -Can you recall any big clearly shaped by having ADHD? -I went to go get a job once, a I was really excited because they and I am such an office supply ADHD are because we're constantly They offered me the position. They were clearing out a desk check, and I was like, &quot;I'm fine.&quot; I was never an external troublemaker. All my issues were I was like, &quot;That's great.&quot; They were like, &quot;Well, no.&quot; I was like, &quot;Wait, what?&quot; They were like, &quot;Did you know your driver's license?&quot; It turned out, the reason why my was because I had a broken ticket, so I went and fixed it. I forget the step of showing They didn't know I fixed it. I wasn't opening my mail of a lot of other mail. I explained it to them, we get this sorted out?&quot; They're like, &quot;We wish we could, We have a policy that if your you can't drive a company car. I'm so sorry.&quot; I was heartbroken, but now it makes and why I got so many parking many times, and why I jumped into me, and I ended up getting divorced. Why I chased so many careers make progress in any of them. This all makes sense now. I've read enough research, that all of it makes sense. Before I could just blame myself, I got distracted, and, yes, I took was just me failing as a person. Failing to be a proper Are there any potentially -Self control is a big part of it. It is easier to enable certain addiction, or compulsive shopping. -Is there anything that helps experiencing symptoms that -I would get hyperactive, told to go run outside. Just go take a run -Just go outside, move your body. -If my parents could get me in my body, I could bring myself than just be stuck up here. -Are there extended periods of that you have ADHD, or is it -I have extended periods of time [laughs] . Yes, like I'm a around a corporeal plane. I don't know if that's ADHD, or what? For me, it's always been something just how I know the world. It's not as much as, do I forget, doing what I would do with ADHD. -Therefore, it's always there. -Always thinking- --trying to filter yourself lens of, &quot;Oh, I have ADHD. I better real this in.&quot;? -Do you know if ADHD is or something you're born with? -ADHD is highly genetic. If you have ADHD, it's very parents had undiagnosed ADHD. That's a lot of how people find out. There are a lot of adults that's what they have. -Then their kids get diagnosed, -I also have theory that a like, &quot;ADHD doesn't exist. Everybody has ADHD. I'm like, &quot;Have you A lot of people with ADHD They just think they're lazy, aren't kind heartened enough, When they find out, there's okay that makes sense.&quot; -How do you feel about the idea ADHD are advantages in some way. Even now it could be like, Or back throughout history our much more likely to notice dangerous shiny ripe fruit behind the tree, and were done and they tested different tribe, and they were able to see actually better hunter-gatherers. -Oh, 100%. For me, in my job, it pays off forgetting the cameras in front focusing on the scene, focusing on different place than our physical I can tune that out, no problem. -You thrive on it in fact. -I play characters I play characters that can stand It's a fun challenge to slow down and purposefully because it's a game. It's a game to mirror what have to be that always like I -Do you remember when -Timelines are really hard for me. Timelines, so maybe ADHD might have been depression at -I like how you were just the answer that question right now. -I [?] my self like, -I was diagnosed I I had to grow up a bit faster age because dealing with the about chemical neuroscience. All that it was very eye-opening, perspective like how all the drama stuff is not really that important. -As a kid, you started having to You got to start thinking about instead of just all the video most kids are worrying about? -As much as I wish I could have been. -I was diagnosed when I was 12. I ended up getting diagnosed with ADHD and then they looked at have a lot of these symptoms too. Then my parents looked at me like let's take you to get checked out. -Do you take any medications -The one that worked for a long time -How did that help? -Brain chemistry is weird. The were using it for narcolepsy they were like, &quot;Hey, this works for fine let's try it for ADHD people.&quot; -I took my first dose of Concerta seventh grade, I was on that. Then I did the neurotherapy and messing with your head a little not being on drugs like that. Made a huge difference for me. I like who I am without that, but such a bad thing because especially Adderall again, and took the first of that time and I'm like, &quot;Hmm, I -It must be hard though for you that internal battle of, &quot;Do I just myself being easily distracted able to focus and not like who -That's also a question of, to be able to focus myself? Is that just me being lazy or something chemically different Which the answer is, yes, there -I was given a She was like, &quot;Okay she has The first time I took this pill putting on glasses for the first -How did that feel seeing -It was amazing. I didn't have absolute chaos I could focus on what I wanted brain wanted me to focus on. I even could make friends. I started feeling more -What about some of the rejection sensitive dysphoria? -Rejection sensitive dysphoria William Dodson, based on the sensitive to rejection which is dysregulation in general. It's not just that we're really also that we are really quick We're really quick to We feel emotions really strongly really regulate them well. -Do you think that that's inherently any part of that is growing up and because of your traits associated -The actual rejection sensitivity of the experiences with rejection We need to do more research on -How do you wish our society would -I wish that society understood really are working off of a Our brains work differently. You can't expect somebody with somebody without ADHD would behave. I wish people would let go of to, because we don't know enough know what someone should be able -Bees Inc. wants to know how you deal with and that fear of unmasking. -Masking is when you try and suppress symptoms so that you can fit in. I'm really lucky that since I How to ADHD, I don't have to mask I've done that in If I feel like my excitement shut down, I check out. Some people are better Some people are really good draining that I'd rather not that I'm something I'm not. -Ezra wants to know how say things like, &quot;Oh, they have just not applying themselves.&quot; -It hurts so bad to hear that, tells you you're wasting your potential, even though you're not makes you feel like you're wrong You are the only one who can You are the only one who can You have to accept yourself for If that's not all the way to and it's only here, that's fine. Maybe you'll get here one day. If you don't, that's okay. -It can be really hurtful, because be the person you're supposed to be. You go your full life trying to supposed to be, because that's It was really hard for me when I the person who had so much potential. I was the person who That was hard. -Were you able to take a moment potential still was there? -I knew all the potential was still I didn't know how to reach I was running out of time. I think a lot of people with ADHD behind, so I haven't done the things Now I have to do the things that things I should've already done.&quot; We take on more and more in an It doesn't go well, because the then are getting in our way now It's really hard. -Green Thing wants to know why through the cracks as children -Young AFAB people, Assigned Female in spacing out and just shyness, the radar because it just shows when really it's a kid struggling. -It's all internalized. -Young AMAB people end up young boys are like, &quot;It's Of course, this little boy has ADHD. He's jumping off the walls. -Interesting because society does and rowdy and roughhouse and whatnot. Then those girls they're encouraging of those feelings internalized. That probably explains differently between the two. -Because hyperactive AMAB people were of what ADHD is, that made it extra have the same symptoms, including The shy or the lonelier, the more written off as young boys with -Are there any aspects to having -The creativity, for sure. That and being able to strike Learning the art of small a huge difference because- -I am not a fan of small talk. -It's such a pain. You just met me off the Hi, how are you? How are you doing? -How's your day been so far? -Unbelievable. -Just pretty good? You got to have a little bit more. -Damn, and then you hooked me because myself and there's nothing I like -That's it. If you get someone to interests, you got them. - [laughs] What do you think about those who have ADHD? It is. It affects our ability to our emotions, our sleep. It affects way more than people that we blame ourselves for or partners, they're not their fault. -All right, you got five seconds you want directly in the camera. -Impact Parents, check it -My Twitch channel, JBAverage, Hopefully, there'll be some -We have a brand new Check it out. Also, our YouTube channel, on Patreon, patreon.com/howtoadhd. -Do not forget to like and this glorious human creature -Me? at that gorgeous face. Subscribe. I feel like I understand the world -You are an incredible interviewer. You had the best questions. After spending the day with these understand just how heavily this of one's daily life and how and supportive of those around you may be occurring behind the scenes. See you later. Bye, guys. [music] -My wife was just talking with my At some point, my mother just you don't think you have ADHD,&quot; -She's just diagnosing -My poor wife's just sitting -Going to give her an -Exactly, this existential woman and my mom's just there this,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;No, no. Do you know what you just did?&quot; - [laughs] That's more than here, that's a bigger thing. -Sending me home with this poor - [laughs] Thanks, mom. It's fine. Thank you, mom. You did your