Hey smart people Joe here - stay tuned for a special announcement after the video. So I used to have this shirt. I know at least one of you was watching back Hey Kyle. For the rest of you are probably wondering What's up with the hair? What this shirt means is that the microbes Most common figure is by 10 to 1. Except... that's not true. It's a scientific urban legend. Yet this factoid continues to be shared and I'm guilty of it too, I mean, my old video it's literally centered around this erroneous It turns out that urban legends like this and how they begin and the reasons why they works, and when it doesn't. At some point the 10-to-1 bacterial to human Common knowledge is information that the average, public, scientists, whoever-accepts as reliable all know that water freezes at 0@C. We all know that, right? Somewhere along the line, people stopped asking There are countless facts in science that I mean, if research papers cited an original it would be an absolute mess. Say you wrote a paper about synthesizing some Do you have to cite a paper that proves chemicals Ok, then do you need to cite something to Maybe Einstein's 1905 paper on Brownian Or do you have to go back to John Dalton in You can see things get ridiculous pretty fast. But! Sometimes things that aren't true become but the new information fails to replace the Here's an example: I wouldn't be surprised heard that spinach was a particularly excellent I certainly remember being taught that, I And-you can probably guess where I'm going In 1981, a biologist named Terry Hamblin studied iron content in spinach was misreported, thanks the early 1900s. Except he didn't cite a source for the misplaced And it turns out that THAT's a myth too. Turns out the earliest old-school measures of iron in spinach were waaaay too high, and wrong, but because of contamination, not a misplaced decimal point. It's science! Details matter! Spinach actually does contain large amounts but it also contains compounds that make the So it's not an exceptionally great source Incidentally, it turns out &quot;Popeye&quot; creator E.C. Segar chose spinach as the sailor man's food of choice for its high vitamin A content, not because of iron. It's another case where the correction never a good reminder that a good story is not necessarily And I'm willing to bet that at some point help cure or prevent a cold. Yeah, that's not true either. That myth traces to legendary scientist Linus In 1966 Pauling was convinced by a random of Vitamin C would help him live longer, and 1800 glasses of orange juice every day, and colds he had suffered from his whole life Even though Linus Pauling won not one but of studies since have proven he was wrong, affect colds, and the only disease it definitively Yet somehow the cold myth still continues Or maybe you've heard that you lose most That urban legend goes back to one military out in the cold with no hats on. I mean, you're gonna lose most of your body exposed. Today scientists know the amount of body heat exposed, but parents everywhere are still a hat. You also don't need to drink 8 glasses of That urban legend probably goes back to one from 1945. Except many people who cited that number ignored of the water they need from food. It's important to stay hydrated, but 8 glasses... I mean, like what size of glasses even?! And one of the most famous is that sugar causes This one seems totally logical, but more than failed to detect different behavior between weren't. That's right, the cake is actually a lie! Turns out when parents even think their children if it's actually sugar-free), they tend This particular urban legend traces its origin Feingold in 1973, who with little to no evidence, flavors from the diets of hyperactive children, too!" I mean, kids are just kids, and they're Let's go back to that 10-to-1 mainly microbe In 2010 a couple of researchers went on a the paper cited most often was this one, from It states the human body contains 100 trillion cells. Ten to one. Scroll down to reference #70 and we find the number is this 1970 paper by Thomas Luckey, just a back of the envelope estimate, and This has nothing to do with the rest Luckey was literally an honorary samurai, And going back to the original 1977 paper, #27, a 1970 textbook by biologist Theodosius I dug through the internet to find a copy absolutely zero supporting evidence, is the cells. And there you have it. A back of the envelope estimate combined with the very wrong and very widely shared fact 10-to-1. Right about now you're probably wondering First, the original estimate for microbes volume of the entire lower intestine. But the vast majority of your body's microbes of that volume. And yes, that's where your poop is made. Using a more accurate volume of the average bacteria we typically find per volume of poop, microbial population is... drumroll please... 39 trillion. Not 100 trillion. And as for the number of cells in the human This is a seemingly simple question that you a long time. But the truth is, until very recently, no Over the past couple centuries, estimates quadrillion cells in our body. What makes it so difficult is that cells in packed they are, so the only way to get a And that's what a group of researchers did Based on actual evidence, their new number body. That makes the ratio of microbe to you more Amazingly, although most of your mass comes red blood cells make up more than 80% of the bit more in favor of the microbes. But remember how I said almost all of your Well, you lose almost a third of them every you poop, the ratio swings in your favor, numbers back up. Doesn't make as catchy a shirt though... Things we consider common knowledge can be amazing power of science to correct its own over time... that good knowledge doesn't So how do these scientific urban legends continue More scientific journals exist today than today than ever before. Most of that science is peer-reviewed, but is true. If one false citation makes it into the system, cite that bad fact instead of verifying the The solution? Well, for you out there in the "general if you think something is common knowledge, You might be surprised by what you find. But that's easier said than done, because available, at least not legally. Most scientific research today sits behind source, you couldn't. Then what about this? Now, it's easy to dump on Wikipedia. Anyone can edit it, and I mean, they have a reliable source". It's a paradooooox... wait, why don't Come on Kyle. But Wikipedia represents a collection of our It's the most widely read and widely accessible And at least one study has shown that Wikipedia that are freely available. This isn't an ad for Wikipedia, it just out to the broadest audience, making it freely The point, to me at least, is pretty clear. If you want common knowledge to be true, you Every one of us carries quite a few pieces That is nothing to feel bad about. What matters is being comfortable enough with able to replace bad knowledge when you find Stay curious.