Welcome to Prague, one of the most Prague has been an important city throughout the centuries and it was the historical Nowadays, the capital of the Czech Republic is for its diverse architecture, rich history, &lt;music&gt; The historic centre of Prague is a UNESCO a fine example of continuous urban growth It comprises the Old Town, the Lesser Town Some of the best things to see in Prague are the Charles Bridge, the Astronomical Clock and the Castle of Prague, which is the largest castle complex in the &lt;music&gt; If you ask us, we could spend months in Prague, However, this video is about how to spend 4 &lt;music&gt; You can fly to Prague from several cities You can also get to Prague by train from other Central European cities, such as Vienna, Bratislava or Budapest. Once in Prague, the best way to get around the If you plan to heavily rely on public transport the Prague Visitor Pass can save A fun way to get around Prague is the &lt;music&gt; It makes sense to start your first of 4 days in Prague at one of the city's most Buzzing with life all day long, the Old Town and sculptures, such as the Gothic Church of &lt;music&gt; Yet, the most famous building in the Old Inside the Old Town the Romanesque underground You can also go up the Tower of the Old Town Hall &lt;music&gt; But even if you don't step inside the spot in front of its Astronomical Clock Every hour, the Astronomical Clock puts on a Death, represented by a skeleton, rings a bell and the 12 Apostles parade at the windows above the clock. For the best views of the Old Town a rooftop bar opposite the Old Town Walk along Celetna, one of the oldest until you reach the Powder Gate Tower. Originally one of Prague's 13 city gates, the Powder Gate Tower serves as a visual border between the Old Town and the New Town. It's worth climbing the 186 stone steps to the Powder Gate's viewing gallery for spectacular views of Prague. In the afternoon, visit the Jewish Museum in Prague. Founded in 1906, it houses vast collections, One of the most impressive among them is Constructed in 1868, the Spanish Synagogue is the most recent synagogue in the Jewish Town. Its gorgeous interior is influenced by Moorish architecture and it resembles the Alhambra in Spain. &lt;music&gt; Outside the Spanish Synagogue, don't miss one of the 20th century's most prominent writers. Another essential stop is the Pinkas Synagogue, an emotional memorial to the Czech Republic's 80,000 Holocaust victims. Right next door to the Pinkas Synagogue, the Throughout the centuries, the cemetery was As a result, people started burying bodies on top of each other after some point. One of the oldest Jewish burial grounds in the world, the Old Jewish Cemetery is now home to 12,000 tombstones. Other sites to visit in the Jewish houses an exhibition dedicated to the Maisel Synagogue, the Robert Guttmann &lt;music&gt; End your first of 4 days in Prague at one of the city's best parks. Letna Park overlooks the Since 1991, the park has been dominated by a an enormous monument to Joseph Stalin used Letna Park is abundant in quaint paths and amazing viewpoints and it's also home to one of &lt;music&gt; Dominating the city's skyline for centuries on Site and one of the best things to see in Prague. The buildings inside the castle complex represent various architectural styles. &lt;music&gt; The city's Cathedral, the imposing Saint Vitus, is A fine example of Gothic architecture, Saint Vitus Cathedral hides a treasure of beautiful stained-glass windows within its walls, some of which were created by Another church worth visiting the oldest surviving church in Prague Castle. &lt;music&gt; While in Prague Castle, don't miss the However, the ultimate highlight of Prague Castle This street is lined by cute small houses, the Those houses were built in the 16th century for the castle's guards. In the 17th century, they were used by Nowadays, these tiny houses are painted in bright into the lives of their former occupants. Franz Kafka lived for almost a year at house number 22. Before you leave Prague Castle, take a moment to admire the view of the &lt;music&gt; After you visit Prague Castle, it's time to get one of Prague's most historic neighbourhoods. Start at the Wallenstein Garden, the ideal place to catch your breath after wandering around the grounds of Prague Castle. The Wallenstein Garden is part of the Early Baroque Wallenstein Palace which is now the seat of the Senate of the Czech Republic. During your pleasant stroll, you will come a gorgeous pond and an artificial cave In the Lesser Town, you can also the most famous Baroque church in Prague and At 50 centimetres wide, the street, doesn't have space for two people to cross it when coming from opposite directions and this For literature lovers, the Franz Kafka Museum The museum narrates the life and work of one of photos and manuscripts. Outside the Franz Kafka Museum, have a look at David Cerny's bronze statues of two men who wee-wee in a pond, shaped like the Czech Republic. &lt;music&gt; Before you leave the Lesser Town behind, Towers for the most spectacular views you From the 26-metre-high viewing gallery, you can watch life go by along the gorgeous Charles Bridge. For the best panoramic views of Prague You've seen it from above but now it's time Welcome to one of the prettiest and the almost unbearably romantic Charles Bridge. &lt;music&gt; Constructed between 1357 and 1402, Charles It's lined with several elaborate statues that Charles Bridge is beautiful any time of the day so make sure you come back at night to see it dimly lit to perfection. &lt;music&gt; Once you've walked to the other end of Charles we'd recommend climbing up the Old Town Bridge Tower. Unless of course, you're done Built in the 14th century, the Old Town Bridge Tower offers breathtaking views of Charles Bridge and Prague Castle. We promise that the 138 steps After all this sightseeing- and tower relax than joining a river cruise. There are many boat tours available in Prague but we'd recommend taking a historical tour These old-fashioned wooden boats depart and take you on a journey through Prague's Due to their compact size, the Prague Venice Boats are among the few vessels that can enter the quaint Devil's Canal. The river cruise lasts 45 minutes and there are &lt;music&gt; Start your third of 4 days in Prague right at the Old Water Mill before you continue to The wall of the Seat of the Maltese Order was where people started writing messages against the regime in the 1960s. Twenty years later, the face of Lennon Wall has been the symbol Remember David Cerny? The Czech men we talked about earlier in this video? After seeing Lennon Wall, walk to Kampa Park While there, you can also After a 5-minute walk from Kampa Park, the lowest station of the Petrin Funicular. Opened in 1891, this funicular connects the Lesser Town to the top of Petrin Hill, one of the best places to visit in Prague. Once at the top of Petrin First of all, the hill itself is a huge park The area's highlight though is the Petrin Lookout Inspired by the Eiffel Tower in Paris, this steel tower was built in 1891. It offers panoramic views of the entire city of Prague from its observation gallery which can be accessed via 299 steps or a lift. &lt;music&gt; While on Petrin Hill, you have the opportunity to At the Mirror Maze, you can and see the diorama of the battle Yet, the fun begins once you step inside the Hall of &lt;music&gt; On your way back to the city centre, to admire the spectacular views At the foot of Petrin Hill, stop for a minute at the controversial Memorial to the Victims of Communism. &lt;music&gt; A 20-minute walk or tram ride away, the Constructed in 1996, this modern building was inspired by the famous dance duo, Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. The Dancing House is now one of &lt;music&gt; Very close to the Dancing House, it's worth Heroes of the Heydrich Terror. The crypt that lies beneath the Church of Saints Cyril and Methodius was the hiding place of the soldiers who assassinated Reinhard Heydrich, a high-ranking SS officer and one of the masterminds behind the Holocaust. In the dark depths of the crypt, you will learn everything about the planning, the execution and the aftermath of the assassination. &lt;music&gt; Your last sightseeing stop for the day is Vysehrad is a historic fort in Prague that dates back to the 10th century. On its grounds, you can visit the Neo-Gothic Church of Saints Peter &amp; Paul and take a peaceful stroll around Vysehrad Cemetery, the resting place of several prominent artists, Yet the main reason to visit Vysehrad is to catch the most jaw-dropping views of Prague, especially at sunset. &lt;music&gt; End your day with a stroll along Naplavka, stopping at its quaint riverside bars for a glass of Czech beer along the way. Naplavka is one of the liveliest parts of the city, especially on a sunny day when locals flock The opposite bank of the river is also reach it by a short ferry ride. In the daytime, you can also get from one bank of the Vltava River to the other by crossing the Vysehrad Railway Bridge. &lt;music&gt; If you're planning to see Prague in 4 days, we have some amazing suggestions for your last day in the city. Start with a walk around the New Town but don't let its name fool you. The New Town was founded in the distant 1348. Step inside the Church of our Lady of The Snows and then look for some of the city's quirkiest spots: the world's only Cubist Street Lamp, the hanging statues and, of course, the rotating Head of Franz Kafka. Any guesses about who built this futuristic Yes, it was David Cerny again. This impressive statue comprises 42 rotating Kafka's head puts on its special &lt;music&gt; Your next stop is one of Prague's main Wenceslas Square is more of a boulevard than a square and it's the busiest pedestrian zone in the Czech Republic. At its southeast end, Wenceslas Square is dominated by the grand neoclassical building that In front of the museum, you can see the Memorial in an act of political protest against the At the square, you can admire the Statue of A small detour will lead you to Lucerna Passage where you can have a look at a quirkier version of Saint Wenceslas riding his horse, a work by, yeap, David Cerny. While at Wenceslas Square, grab a beer Sitting at a pub where beer is served Take the tram to Zizkov, one of Prague's off-the-beaten-path neighbourhoods. Built between 1928 and 1932, the Church a modern building that resembles Noah's Ark. Yet the main reason you're in Zizkov is to climb the iconic Television Tower. Often listed as one of the ugliest buildings in the views of the entire city from its viewing situated 93 metres above the ground. Don't worry, there's a lift. From the tower's windows, you'll notice some familiar faces. It's David Cerny's crawling babies again. If you're a huge fan of Cerny's work by now, watch our Liberec video to get a glimpse of one of his most famous creations. In that video, you'll also see another impressive There's no better place to end your 4-day Prague of a beautiful park. Riegrovy Sady is one of the most relaxing parks in Prague and one of the city's best viewpoints. If the postcard-perfect view of Prague Castle from Riegrovy Sady is the last thing you see during your 4-day trip to Prague, there's no turning back. You are doomed to never stop going back to one of the world's most beautiful capital cities. But that's no doom, that's pure bliss. If you're visiting Prague soon, click on you will find in the description If you enjoyed our video about how to spend 4 Don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel!