The sinking of the ocean liner RMS The Lusitania was an event that shocked the world and today we as well as take a look at what it was like to actually ride on the great ship as I make this Victoria pudding featured on one of So thank you to NordVPN for sponsoring this video as we dine on the Lusitania this time on Tasting History. So most people know The Lusitania for being the and in school we were taught that it was one of the though the fact that we didn't get into the war yeah it was there but it's not really one of the leading causes, there was a lot more. It's very, very complicated and that's not what this episode is about, but regardless before she became famous for sinking The Lusitania was renowned for her luxury and her speed, two of the most important things that you want in an ocean liner especially at the start of the 20th century. Now unfortunately I was unable to actually find a menu from the last meal on The Lusitania which would have been lunch on May 7th 1915 just a couple hours before she sank but because the ship which launched in 1907 was in operation for the better part of 8 years there are numerous menus that exist from those years mostly from the first and second class so in choosing a dish to make I had so many options but eventually decided on Victoria pudding which was served to the second class on Thursday October 9th 1913. What's interesting is that this same exact dish aboard the RMS Titanic on April 11th 1912. The thing is throughout history there are several dishes that go by the name Victoria pudding and they're all quite different so I'm not entirely sure which one this was but since it was meant to be a dish to impress I am going to guess that it's the recipe that can be found in the 1894 cookbook 'Fancy Aces' by Mrs Agnes B. Marshall. Now the recipe is quite long so I'm not going to read the entire thing right now but I will put the full thing up on tasting history.com my website but for now &quot;Take one pint of vanilla custard add to it the puree of six large or eight small raw ripe bananas that have been pounded with 1 ounce of castor sugar, the pulp of two oranges and one lemon, and a quarter-pound of raw ripe or cooked pineapple; mix these together and color with a little of Marshall's Apricot Yellow, and rub through a fine hair sieve; flavor with a wine and a wine glass full of brandy...&quot; This is then made into an ice cream that's kind of mixed with some whipped cream, and then it's put into a mold and frozen into a pretty shape and then you make banana compote and put that all The thing is to start the recipe you need that vanilla custard and she does not give you a recipe for vanilla custard... in this book. She says that you have to go to her previous book to two cookbooks to do this recipe and some might say and others might say it's just a shrewd business practice. I would say that's a scam, and I promise in my next cookbook you will not have to buy the first cookbook to make any of the recipes they will be standalone. Luckily for me I do have Agnes Marshall's first cookbook so this is what you need to make her vanilla custard: 2 cups or 475 mL of heavy cream, a heaping half cup a pinch of salt and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. So first sprinkle the salt over the egg yolks and then add the sugar and whisk until they are a nice pale yellow. Then add in the vanilla and whisk that in and then heat the cream until just simmering, take it off the heat and then we're going to add it to the eggs but you can't just pour the whole thing into the eggs, or you'll have scrambled eggs so we need to temper them by taking one ladle at a time of the hot cream and adding it to the egg yolks, whisking it in and only then adding another ladle. After three or four ladles worth you can then add the rest of the cream and whisk until smooth. Then you can either set this in the fridge or even faster you would take the bowl and put it into another bowl that has an an ice bath in it and it should cool down the whole custard in about 10 minutes. And during that time you can gather the rest of your ingredients which are 6 bananas, 3 tablespoons of sugar, 2 small oranges, 1 small lemon, 3 round slices or 110 grams of pineapple, 2 teaspoons You'll also need some yellow you should use Marshall's Apricot Yellow, and were where you could order it along with any number of other dyes ice cream makers and the many molds that she sold. As I said she was a very shrewd business woman like a third of the cookbook is just advertisements. Unfortunately the business is is no longer around so just use regular food coloring. So mash the bananas as smooth as possible then mix it with the sugar then blend the peeled lemon and orange along with And you want to get this as smooth as possible so if you have an immersion blender use that otherwise just mash until it's it's really smooth. By now your custard should also be cool so you can stir that into the mixed fruit and this is followed by the yellow food coloring. Now she doesn't say how much exactly to use but so you want to add a fair amount of the food coloring in especially because once we add the whipped cream it will lighten it up a little bit. I think it took me about four or five drops. Then pass this mixture through a sieve. This is why you want it nice and smooth because if you don't get it smooth then a lot of the pulp will end up staying in the sieve which some of it will but the more you can kind of press through the better. Then to that you can add the orange flower water, the vanilla and the brandy and stir those in, and then it is time to freeze and unfortunately she doesn't say how long to freeze it but it kind of doesn't matter because her ice cream maker would have been different than a modern ice cream maker though they actually work on pretty much the same exact idea. Today it's going to take about 15 to 20 minutes, you want to get something about as thick as soft serve. So add the mixture to the ice cream maker and while it's freezing take a 1/2 cup or 120 milliliters of heavy cream, and 1 tablespoon of sugar and whisk it into a stiff whipped cream. Then about 10 minutes into the freezing add the whipped cream to the partially frozen ice cream, and continue to freeze until it's done. Once it's nice and thick then you can pour the ice cream into a mold, and you want some fancy mold because that's kind of the whole point of the dessert and it does help if you put a little bit of water in the mold, rinse it, and then throw it out right before you add the ice cream it makes it easier to get out later on. Then take the mold put it into the freezer and let it freeze until it is as frozen as you can get. Really it should be like a day. Now just because I know that change is hard it's going to be hard on me, it's going to be hard on you I wanted to give you a heads up that while this is not the last video that you'll see of me in this kitchen, it is close to the last because we are going to be doing some some remodeling, light changes mainly just kind of different cabinet color and everything so while that's happening I'm going to be filming in a totally different location and I don't know where that is yet maybe I'll go to my parents, maybe I'll just be working in a half empty kitchen with a Now while our Victoria pudding freezes let us So what was it like to dine aboard the RMS Lusitania? Well it's really going to depend on what class you're in. If you are in third class then you would eat in the third class dining saloon on D deck near the bow of the ship, a spot where you would feel the most movement of the ship. The room featured long tables with polished pine panel walls and wooden swivel chairs bolted to the deck, and because Lusitania was known for her luxury. Even the third class passengers ate better than second class passengers on much smaller ships and so they would have things like roast mutton, and blue marrow fat peas, and lots of different fruit, rarely fresh fruit it was mostly canned fruit like pineapple and peaches but overall they ate pretty well and if while you were dining you wanted some entertainment they provided a piano in the Dining Saloon though they didn't provide a player so you had to hope that somebody in your class was was proficient at piano. Now the third class dining saloon was not actually large enough to accommodate all of the third class passengers at one time it was by far the largest class on the ship and so they would break up each meal into two seatings which is actually standard on many cruise ships today and that was the same thing that they had to do in the second class dining saloon. This saloon had a similar setup of long tables with fixed swivel chairs though these chairs seemed to be far better padded, and it was decorated with white panel walls and white pillars and while the main saloon was on D deck there was seating in the balcony one deck up which was used only when the ship was booked to capacity which was the case on Lusitania final voyage because there were 40 additional passengers that at the last minute were put onto Lusitania along with five additional crew members because another ship the cameronia had just been requisitioned by the British admiralty. Though many of these passengers were probably glad she had a reputation for luxury and for speed keeping her this is what we call foreshadowing. Anyway the menus of the second class on Lusitania For instance luncheon on the 1st of May 1915, only a week before she sank, included everything from pottage albian which is a giblet soup, to fricassee of calf's feet, roast beef, brown potatoes, carrots, vichy. There were cold meats like ox tongue and galantine of veal, an aspic covered force meat that has lost popularity but was all the rage in 1915. Dessert included plum tarts, pastry, rice pudding and ice cream followed by cheese, fruit, nuts, and tea and coffee. And that was just lunch. Once you got to dinner at least in 1913 you are going to get 11 courses starting off with radishes, then a vegetable soup called pottage Georgette, boiled salmon, chicken or lamb, roast beef with roast duckling with applesauce. Then desserts then ice cream, cheese, tea, and coffee. Now should you be fortunate enough to find yourself dining in first class which was rather expensive well then you would be dining in one of the grandest dining saloons afloat, like the others it was on D deck but it was at the center of the ship where the motion of the ship was felt the least. And with 470 seats it typically fit all of the first class passengers who wished to dine. The tables were split on two levels under a great dome decorated with frescos of cherubs. The room was decorated with white plaster mahogany panels and gold leaf and was dotted with Corinthian columns with gilded capitals, but the room was not without its faults. There were often complaints that the food would arrive cold because of the distance that the servers had to travel from the kitchen to the dining room. I guess they fixed that at some point but at least at first food would often be cold. Another issue was that if you were sitting in that balcony, then instead of having port holes that looked out to the ocean you looked out upon a promenade... a promenade of third class passengers who were known to gawk at the at the finer first class passengers dining in the saloon. But I assure you the ogles of the riffraff would soon be forgotten once the food comes. For breakfast you could have basically anything you wanted from fruit, porridge, grape nuts, smoked salmon, a half dozen type of eggs, and omelets, vegetable stew, Wilshire bacon fried bananas and potatoes. And then cold meats, every bread, and pancake you could possibly imagine and then tea, coffee, or cocoa. Now this was typically served around 8 or 8:30 AM and just a few hours later at 12:30 you would have lunch which has so many different dishes I can't possibly even name like half of them but it's insane. There were multiple hors d'oeuvres, three different soups, egg dishes, fish dishes, savory pies and meats like roast beef and boiled calf's head. Then any number of other meats ordered straight from the grill like mutton chops or filet mignon. There were cold seafood dishes like lobster Numerous vegetable dishes, and then desserts of and macedoine of fruits which is fruit suspended in the fanciest of gelatin molds. Then you would finish with strawberry and peach ice I guess they didn't have cocoa at lunch it was just Anyway, that's lunch then you would have an afternoon tea, and this would be just like lunch but even grander, even more dishes, fancier dishes. I can't believe how much these people ate now of course they weren't eating every dish you would just eat little pieces here and there and it was just usually a bite or two of everything but still it was a lot of food and it took a lot of time to do this. And I don't know about you but when I was a kid I couldn't really sit through an hours long dinner, I know kids in the early 20th century are probably super well behaved but they didn't sit through these hour long dinners either because should you bring children aboard with you they didn't come to the meals. They were sat with a stewardess who would feed and entertain them and keep them away from the adults and these stewardesses had a lot on their plate so to speak because during that last voyage a single stewardess was saddled with 22 children at one point. Now after your childless dinner it was time to smoke and drink something that you would have done before the meal, and between most meals and probably several times a day especially the smoking. They smoked a lot. I can just imagine that everything on that ship and kind of in the world just reeked of smoke, but luckily the ship was prepared for this. On that last voyage they had 30,000 Three Castle cigarettes, 10,000 Manila cigars, and 760 pounds of different pipe tobacco and this was of course in addition to all the tobacco products that the passengers themselves brought on. For drinking the ship stocked 150 cases of black and white whiskey, 50 cases of Canadian Club whiskey, 50 cases of Plymouth gin, 30 cases of wine 12 barrels of stout and 10 of ale. Now if you were in first class you would enjoy music while you dined provided by the string quintet aboard and should you be very fortunate you might be invited to actually sit at the Captain's Table. Now on most Cunard ships of the day, the captain was not only responsible for keeping the ship going and getting to where it needed to go on time but also for entertaining some of the passengers. See in the days before cruise directors it was up to the captain to kind of walk around He would also be in charge of giving the Sunday service, the church service, and he would have a Captain's Table where he was expected to sit and dine with the most important passengers on the boat. Now this was something William Turner who was Captain of the Lusitania on her final voyage was not a fan of. Nor was he very good at it. In fact his housekeeper who then turned into his life partner once said that Captain Turner described the passengers &quot;as a load of bloody monkeys who are constantly chattering.&quot; So he actually preferred to eat in his cabin and just kind of skip the whole Captain's Table routine though sometimes he couldn't when he was working on other Cunard ships and he was Captain of many of their ships including the Carpathia which was under a different captain, the ship that and I'm going to do a video on that experience but when when he took over Lusitania he didn't have to do any of this stuff because the ship was large enough that the line was like it requires your full and utmost attention so we're going to provide you with a staff captain who is more affable and will relieve you of your social responsibilities. And this was a good thing because in 1915 the captain of the Lusitania had a lot more to worry about than entertaining some some fancy folks, he had to worry about German U-boats. The submarines of the German Navy had become a plague on the shipping lanes especially around Ireland and Britain, and in the numerous warnings that U-boats were willing to strike Now granted these passenger ships were not just supplies, food, even munitions to help them with their war efforts. So some people say well they're fair game, even then people were like you know it's- you're taking your chances. Even just a few days before Lusitania left New York, Washington DC got a message from Germany saying we are going to fire upon any ship that is flying a British flag especially the Lusitania, and they printed this in the newspapers saying &quot;travelers sailing in the war zone on ships of Great Britain on her allies do so at their own risk.&quot; Now personally I would have probably canceled but people then seemed to be undeterred. First of all many people thought that Germany was bluffing, that they wouldn't actually attack a passenger ship. Second of all Lusitania was very very fast and German U-boats are not very fast especially when they're underwater so there was no problem with Lusitania just outrunning a U-boat provided they knew it was there. And while it's always hard to know exactly where a submarine is there were warnings because just the day before she sank around dinner time on May 6th a warning came through to the wireless operators aboard Lusitania saying &quot;Submarines active off South Coast of Ireland.&quot; Now the next day on May 6th only 16 hours away from their destination of Liverpool lunch was served aboard Lusitania, and while nobody seems to have thought anything super out of the ordinary about the meal some people did write about some some things that in hindsight are rather important. &quot;At luncheon the portholes in the dining-saloon on deck D were open, and so I doubt not that all the others on the deck were open... Here let me state that I consider it most extraordinary that the portholes on the lower decks should not have been closed and sealed as we steamed through the war zone.&quot; And Charles Lauriat was absolutely right because should the worst happen and should the ship begin to sink having all those portholes open would just hasten its demise by letting in more and Another first class passenger Theodate Pope who was dining with her friend conveniently named Edwin Friend recalled &quot;A young Englishman at our table had been served with his ice cream and was waiting for the steward to bring him a spoon to eat it with... He looked ruefully at it and said he would hate to have a torpedo get him before he ate it. We all laughed and then commented on how slowly It had not stopped but it kind of felt that way but 2 they had slowed down. See the original order was to head straight for Liverpool full steam ahead but they had kind of mistimed it and should they keep going at full speed they would reach Liverpool too early and have to sit outside of the bay where they were just a sitting duck for a U-boat. So they slowed down to 18 knots. Now by 2:10 PM most of the first class passengers had finished their meal and the second seating of the second and third class passengers was about halfway done so they were all still eating. A lot of people had come up onto the decks, it was a lovely day, the sea was nice and calm, and that is when one of the crewmen Leslie Morton recalled &quot;At ten minutes past two, I looked at my watch and putting it into my pocket, I glanced around the starboard side and as roughly as I could judge I saw a big burst of foam about 500 yards away, four points on the starboard bow.&quot; That burst of foam was air leaving the torpedo tube of German U-boat U20 as it fired a torpedo straight at Lusitania, and the sea was so calm that numerous passengers say that they were able to look into the water and see the torpedo coming at them, and it looked like chalk being drawn across the top of the sea straight toward the ship. One Survivor Oliver Bernard told newspapers &quot;I was leaning against one of the windows of the palm lounge, looking across an uncommonly calm and beautiful sea, brilliant in sunshine, when I saw on our starboard what at first seemed to be the tale of a fish. The next thing I observed was a streak of froth. We had all been thinking, dreaming, eating, sleeping submarine from the hour we left New York, and yet, with the dreaded danger about to descend An American lady rushed to where I stood, exclaiming I was too spellbound to answer. I felt absolutely sick. Then we were hit.&quot; Just below the ship's bridge 360 pounds of explosives detonated sending a geyser of water, wood, and steel shooting up into the air. A hole about 40 feet wide and 15 feet tall was ripped open Now those at the far end of the ship, or in the center of the ship, all they had water and and pieces of steel and the remnants but regardless of where you were in the ship very quickly everyone felt the list as it started to take on water. &quot;Immediately after the explosion the ship took a sharp list to the starboard and a decided pitch by the head. You could feel the two separate motions very distinctly. It seemed as if she were going down at once, but then she stopped suddenly as if the sea had met the water-tight bulkheads and she seemed to write herself and even raise her bow a little. This gave me a feeling of security and I at first But she would not stay afloat. Now nobody at the time knew how long it would take but only 18 minutes after being hit by that torpedo Lusitania would be on the bottom of the ocean. Now while he didn't know how long they had left Captain Turner did act decisively but he had to slow down the ship from 18 knots So he ordered his men to reverse engines which would quickly stop the ship, quickly being about 3 minutes, but they didn't respond so at that point he decided okay we're going to head toward shore. They were only 12 mil off the coast of Ireland, they knew they probably wouldn't make it, but at least he could beach the the ship so it wouldn't sink but unfortunately because of the list and and taking on so much water she just wouldn't turn so then he decided we just have to get in the lifeboats and slow down on our own which can take up to a half an hour. Now inside the ship first class passenger Molly Mackworth who had just finished having lunch with her father knew something was wrong and so went straight to their but as she's going down the hall she runs into a &quot;We wasted a minute or so making polite Now by the time she actually reached the room the ship was really starting to list and she said it was hard to actually even stand but she got the life belts and went up to the boat deck. &quot;Just after I reached the deck a stream of steerage passengers came rushing up from below and fought their way into the boat nearest us, which was being lowered. They were white-faced and terrified; I think they were shrieking; there was no kind of order - the strongest got there first the weak were pushed aside... They rushed the boat before it was ready for them... As 'I always thought a shipwreck was a well-organized affair.' 'but I've learned a devil of a lot in the last five minutes.' &quot; Only four minutes after impact all of the power on the ship went out. This left a lot of people in elevators stranded in pitch black darkness trying to in vain, very often, find Now you would think that people would be shrieking in sheer terror but according to some it was eerily quiet. &quot;A strange silence prevailed, and small, the cry of a seagull or the bang of a door, Junior Third officer Albert Bestic was trying to lower lifeboats but he quickly realized that this was not an easy task because the ship was listing so much the boats so you had to either crawl across deck chairs that or you had to run and leap into the boat and if you didn't Even worse off were the boats on the port side which and it made it virtually impossible to lower them at all. lifeboat 20 which had about 35 people in it when they attempted to lower it got snagged and pitched forward dumping everyone out, falling 60 feet into the sea because of this Captain Turner ordered that no more boats be lowered from that side of the ship but Lifeboat 18 was already pretty much full with 40 women and children, and the sailor in charge was just standing there following orders and that's when a first class passenger Isaac Layman said you have to lower this boat, and again he said these are my orders, I can't. So then Layman takes out a pistol and points it at the young man. &quot;Don't you see the boat is sinking? And the first man that So being confronted with a guy with a pistol the sailor swung his ax to release the pin, and of course the boat did not swing out, it swung back in killing them instantly, injuring many others including Layman, the guy with the pistol, it crushed his leg. Meanwhile on the starboard side of the ship Leslie Morton who was the one who first saw the torpedo was successfully lowering lifeboat 11 and it was getting down to the water, the problem was because they were still going beneath the next lifeboat, he says lifeboat 13 which is being lowered. That boat's ropes &quot;were both handled by inexperienced and instead of being lowered away the ropes went with a rush a number and number 13 lifeboat, full of people, dropped twenty-five or thirty feet fairly and squarely into number 11 lifeboat which was also full of people.&quot; It was actually probably lifeboat 9 that that went down but regardless of the number it doesn't matter, it killed many of the passengers instantly. And later on Morton recalled that all of this was happening in such a rush that seeing that tragedy happen it was part of a larger unfolding tragedy which &quot;did not give and I was looking out (having no boat now to attend The turmoil of passengers and life belts, many and a gradual crescendo of noise building up as the hundreds and hundreds of people began to realize that not only was she going down very fast but in all probability too fast for them all to get away, did create a horrible and bizarre orchestra of death in the background.&quot; And it was all but too late to get away from the ship because as she went down she would suck people and things with her especially when the four great funnels started to go down. They were hollow so as soon as they hit the water, water would pour in just sucking everyone and everything in down with them. Though there were but then a moment later was shot up covered in soot as a big air pocket released and brought her up to the surface. One second class passenger Grace French who was without a life belt recalled being sucked down with the ship. &quot;It got blacker and blacker, until it became calm and peaceful and I thought I must be in heaven. The next thing I saw was the water getting lighter and lighter until I popped to the surface... I grabbed hold of a life jacket which had a dead young man in it. We floated together for a while until a big wave washed him away.&quot; All of this occurred in only 18 minutes and of only 6 were successfully launched. There were some rafts and collapsable boats that people were able to get on when they washed off the ship so they provided some haven for others but in all of the 1,959 passengers aboard Lusitania 1,199 perished and while the survivors were there less than 12 miles away from the coast of Ireland it took 3 hours for anyone to to come and get them because there was still a U-boat out there and so people were afraid to to go rescue them but after 3 hours the survivors were taken from the He had gone down with the ship, he was in the bridge when it went under the water but he was wearing a life vest and he floated to the top and he did survive. But one of my favorite rescue stories is actually of a family who was traveling with Frank and Elsie, his young son he decided that they would kind of stay on the ship until finally they decided all right we're going to jump off and they jumped off into the water but still they were together, and then a lifeboat came crashing down upon them and after that the son [Frank] was gone, they couldn't find him anywhere and they searched and searched and they couldn't find him anywhere. Now in the days after the sinking, bodies were washing up on the Irish Shore for days, and so George and Elsie would go and and look at every single body to see if it was Frank and none of them were. Then on day three somebody told them that there was a young boy in a nearby hospital who had a broken leg or broken hip from a falling lifeboat so they went to the hospital, and they open the door and there's young 11-year-old Frank sitting in bed and his first words were gee dad took you long enough to get here. A little levity, kind of after a really depressing event and if you want more of the depressing event then might I suggest watching videos from the channel Oceanliner Designs. I'll link to one of my favorites which is a minute-by-minute simulation of the Lusitania sinking and you can watch it while you make the banana compote that you're going to serve with your Victoria pudding. Now Agnes Marshall has a separate recipe, in the same cookbook, for this banana compost and I figured it would be really simple it's a little more complicated than I had expected but here's how you make it. She says take two mashed bananas and add 2 tablespoons of apricot jam, and 2 tablespoons of Maraschino syrup. Then add a few drops of red and a few drops of Then add in the juice of one lemon and the juice of one orange mix all of this together and just like we did with the ice cream pass it through a sieve. Then toss in three more bananas which have been sliced into quarter inch thick slices, coat them and then chill them in the refrigerator until your Victoria pudding is nice and frozen, which mine should be right about now. And here we are a Victoria pudding as served on RMS Lusitania. So I gotta say it is a beautiful dish. I'm not exactly sure how it would have been served on the ship if it would have been one large thing that was brought out to the table or smaller portions. I don't know but I'm gonna try it as it is. Just some of the ice cream first. Hmm. Hm! That's really good. So the first thing you Oh now it- oh my gosh there's so many layers 'cus then you get- then you get like the super, super creaminess of it and that's kind of what- it coats your tongue and then it is followed by the floral- those floral flavors of like the orange blossom water and everything but they're not overpowering at all. Oh that's really good. All right I'm going to try it with some of the banana. I don't think you need to go to the trouble of making the banana compote, I mean it changes the texture 'cus now you're eating some banana obviously and if you want to it's beautiful, it looks great I kind of like vibrant red but it doesn't really add to the flavor because it's a lot of the same flavors that are actually in the ice cream. So yeah it's a lot of work but it's absolutely worth it I think, if you've got the time, love it. Love this British dessert almost as much as I love watching British television shows that I can only access with help from today's sponsor NordVPN. See with NordVPN you can basically Place yourself almost anywhere in the world so like for me many of the British TV shows that I love to watch don't actually air here or aren't available until like a year or two, or three I just use NordVPN to set my location to London and voila And VordVPN is really so much more than that because malware, phishing, especially password phishing which I have been victim to several times. So I also rely on Nord to help me with something called NordPass where you can basically keep all of your passwords in one place that is secure so you don't have to remember every single one. And right now you can get a huge discount with the purchase of a 2-year plan plus four extra months when you use my link nordvpn.com/maxmiller and you can try it risk-free with a 30-day moneyback guarantee. That is nordvpn.com/maxmiller. Now this episode was supposed to, or is wrapping up Transportation Month, an entire month of transportation related videos but while I was researching it I had the question of okay now we know what they were eating on the Lusitania but what were they eating on the U-boat that fired that torpedo? And so next week we're going to talk about the experience of eating and living on a World War I U-boat, and specifically that U-boat that sank the Lusitania so stick around for that next week and I will see you next time on Tasting History.