Translator: Leonardo Silva Hello, brains! I say that to you it wasn't really you that decided It was your brain. And whether you decided to walk, that decision was made by your brain. Behavior, all behavior, This is a story about my brain. So, I was a smart kid. By 18 months, I was speaking By third grade, I was scoring I had, as all my teachers agreed, I was also struggling. I didn't have many, any, friends outside of books. I was easily overwhelmed. I lost things constantly. And trying to get my brain to focus was like trying to nail jello to the wall. But I was smart, so nobody was worried. It wasn't until middle school, when I was responsible and remembering to bring that being smart wasn't enough anymore, My mom took me to the doctor I was diagnosed with ADHD. If you're not familiar with ADHD, inattention, impulsivity, Some people with ADHD have more Those are the daydreamers, Some have more of the Those are the kids (Laughter) But the most common presentation (Laughter) My doctor and my parents decided maybe stimulant medication would succeed So I tried it, and it worked. The first time I took my medication, it was like putting on glasses and realizing I could see I could focus. And without changing anything, Honestly, it was kind of miraculous. By 14, I had friends that liked me. By 15, I had published my first poem. I got a boyfriend. By 17, I knew I wanted to be a journalist. My local college had a program They had a really great So, I signed up at my local college I moved in with my boyfriend. Things were going great, until they weren't. I started having trouble I aced a statistics course, but I forgot to sign up in time, I took classes so I could help but I completely lost sight of mine. I never made it to USC. By 21, I dropped out of college Over the next ten years, I started I ruined my credit. I got married, and was divorced within a year. At this point, I was 32, and I had no idea besides reading self-help books What happened to all that potential? Was I not trying? No! I didn't even have time for friends. I was that busy. I had potential, though. So, my failure was clearly my fault. I just hadn't done and, honestly, I was tired of trying, putting more effort into life and falling farther and farther behind. At this point, I could I could have decided that everyone But I didn't, because I knew that it was my behavior and behavior is affected by the brain, and my brain has ADHD. Looking at my behavior, I knew: even with medication, even as an adult, my ADHD was still and what I needed to know was how and why, and, more importantly, I started to do some research, and I found a lot of great information. I found a lot of bad information too, But there's good information out there. Websites, podcasts, talks, books that would have been than the self-help books I'd been using well, there's no normal - A lot of what I found, though, or seemed like it was written trying to deal with ADHD kids. There wasn't a lot the people who have ADHD. So, I started a YouTube channel. I had no idea how to start but I started a YouTube channel. I almost called it &quot;How Not To ADHD,&quot; because that was about all But my boyfriend, Edward, It turns out lots of people including, maybe especially, I was no exception. I thought ADHD was I thought it was mostly I thought having ADHD was maybe And I thought I was what needed to change, I couldn't be successful and still be me. Spoilers: I was wrong. So, let's go back for a second, let's the brain. Understanding the brain you're working and that's true whether that brain your kid's, your significant other's, or your own. ADHD affects between 5 and 8% which means, statistically speaking, there's between 37 and 60 of us You can't tell who we are just by looking, (Laughter) So, at some point, you're going to meet work with them, give birth to them, or fall in love with them. Chances are you already have. And, at some point, &quot;What is going on in their brain?!&quot; So, after two years of learning about ADHD after having the honor of connecting and ADHD experts, and tens of thousands what can I tell you to help you By the way, many of them First of all, it's real. It's not bad parenting ADHD is a neurodevelopmental disorder. It's currently the most and there are actually These differences are larger in children, In other words, adults have ADHD too. While rates of ADHD diagnosis it's not because of an increase or lack of spanking; it's not, any more than people drowning in swimming Correlation does not equal causation. Those are real numbers. (Laughter) It's from both an increase that girls, adults, and gifted and ironically a lack of understanding that being hyper, misbehaving, does not mean you have ADHD. ADHD is more serious than I realized. The primary characteristics - inattention, don't sound all that serious, but, in real life, they translate being more likely significantly more likely I learned that ADHD is on a spectrum. Raise your hand or spaced out in the middle of a lecture. If you're not raising your hand, I'm going to assume you spaced out (Laughter) The thing is, while everyone experiences an actual diagnosis is based significantly and chronically impair Just like you can get sad you can get distracted and not have ADHD. And just like you can have ADHD can range from mild to severe. I also learned ADHD It creates a lot of confusion. We don't have a deficit of attention! What we have trouble with As ADHD coach Brett Thornhill puts it, it's like your brain keeps switching and somebody else has the remote. Sometimes we have trouble focusing at all, and other times we get stuck on a channel which in real life might seem because we'd rather play video games, But the truth is there are plenty of times we try, and we just can't. Current understanding has to do with the way our brains produce like dopamine and norepinephrine. I learned ADHD is highly treatable. Stimulant medication boosts which is why it helps us focus. It's very effective for around 80% And I learned that ADHD affects much more than our focus. It impairs executive functions and our ability to sustain It affects our ability to regulate It's not one program in our brain it's the whole operating system. It can affect every aspect of our lives. And there are a ton of strategies Cognitive behavioral therapy, coaching, can help make a huge difference I knew I had trouble focusing, What I didn't know was that getting had to do with poor working memory, or that the reason I ran late all the it's because ADHD'ers and that using a timer could teach me Mostly, I expected to learn that ADHD is real; addressing it is important; and medication is not enough. What I didn't expect to learn: that I wasn't alone; I had an ADHD tribe; what a difference it would make There are people with ADHD every culture across the globe. Yes, even in France. (Laughter) And this tribe is awesome. Comparing myself to people I felt really bad about myself. Why couldn't I keep my house clean instead of waiting But seeing the positives helped me recognize ones I couldn't see when I was which is what I'd been doing for decades. But ADHD brains have We tend to be generous, funny, creative. ADHD'ers are 300% more likely We not only think outside the box; we're often not even aware (Laughter) We may struggle when but ADHD brains are great working with ideas that are new, wrestling with problems and dedicating themselves to projects This YouTube career I'd stumbled into At 32, I was divorced, miserable, and had no idea At 33, I'd started my own business, By now, at 34, I have a team of volunteers I'm engaged to this amazing man works right alongside with me, and, as we discovered, also has ADHD. (Laughter) I'm working on reaching out to schools so that kids don't have to learn about their brains. And I'm doing my very first TEDx talk (Cheers) (Applause) But wait! There's more! Wait. (Applause) That did sound like the end (Laughter) I'm happier and more successful So, what happened? Three things: one, I learned both on my own and by connecting If you judge a fish it will live its whole life unless it happens to chat and realizes fish aren't great there's plenty of ocean. Two, in learning about my brain, I found and stumbled If you spend all your time trying you'll never see how far it can swim. It turns out I can be me I just had to find my ocean. Three, I learned strategies I have no fish analogy (Laughter) I guess I learned how to swim. Once you know what you can find solutions to them. Once you look past the stereotypes and dig deeper, you learn It's not people who won't stop fidgeting, It is brains that are trying to get the basic level It's not about procrastinating It's having executive function deficits And it's not people being lazy It's kids and adults struggling to succeed with a brain that doesn't always in a society that wasn't built for them. Society is our user's manual. We learn how our brains and bodies work And, when yours works differently, So, what I'm trying to do wherever they are &quot;You are not weird. You are not stupid. You do not need to try harder. You are different, you are beautiful, and you are not alone.&quot; If you don't ADHD yourself, chances are They're your employee, your boss, I hope this talk helps you If you do have ADHD, welcome to the tribe. (Applause) (Cheers)