Rirang / Solo Camper / Druid. Stir-fried bean sprouts and pork. Cucumber seasoned with soybean paste. Traveling camper. Rirang OnAir. I go on a trip to Goryeong-gun. I am very interested in Korean traditional culture. The queen is coming!. hello. end!. Today is the day the youth group practices traditional music. Even after practice is over, everyone goes home. My name is Siyeon Park and I play the gayageum in Goryeong. I am a member of 'Harang'. Fold your legs like this. Make a sound by plucking the string with your right hand. Wave your left hand like this to make a wave sound. Move your hand like this. The scales are 'Re' and 'So'. Teacher, the progress is too fast. Among the 7 scales, there are no 'do' and 'fa'. If you're confused about the scale, you can say it in numbers. One, two, three, four. Beginner mode. It's similar to the line order. I will increase the difficulty level. Intermediate mode. It's fun. Goryeong is famous for its gayageum. Gayageum was invented here. This area used to be called 'Gaya'. Gayageum made in 'Gaya'. So, there are many people who play gayageum in Goryeong. There is a Ureuk Museum. The Daegaya Museum also has a gayageum. The king who created the gayageum is King Gasil. This is 'Ureuk' who protected the gayageum. (History class). Ureuk Museum. Ureuk playing the gayageum. It's a sad expression. cute. Here is the gayageum that I explained earlier. It is similar to the gayageum I saw earlier. I have so much fun playing the gayageum that I have blisters on my fingers. What I played was like this 'Sanjo Gayageum'. I have a blister. It's happened!. I played so hard. For 2 hours and 30 minutes. Are there any good restaurant around here? Ask the teacher. Are there any good restaurants in the market? Chueotang is delicious. Teacher's teacher. I had fun learning gayageum. I'm so hungry that I'm heading to the restaurant quickly. I'm going to a Goryeong loach stew restaurant recommended by my gayageum teacher. The name of the lounge is 'Strawberry'. / (Information) Goryeong-gun is famous for strawberries. I think I'll eat something else before I even get to the restaurant. Meow, where are you going? Where are you going? Grilled bulgogi. This looks delicious too. I don't think the day I go is a market day. Goryeong Daegaya Market. Goryeong market. I've been talking a lot about that 'Ureuk' guy since a while ago. It seems like there are usually a lot of people here. It is a very well decorated market. It is more decorated than a traditional market. It's been a long time since I saw this sign. hello. Are you alone? / yes. As soon as I come in, the scent of prickly ash is very strong. Use of natural prickly ash. It looks so delicious. I also have a lot of my favorite peppers. Add just a little bit of prickly ash powder. little!. There was a loach soup restaurant near my old company. I ate this whenever I felt low on energy. Because the loach is ground up, the taste is not strong. The taste of dried radish greens is also good. It's a taste that everyone can enjoy. I had a good time. good bye. Is it strawberry season now? Strawberries are in season in December. I'm full. I ate well. There were a lot of strawberry letters around, so I asked, but there were no strawberries yet. Daegaya Camp. I'm currently at a campsite that is completely filled with autumn. The floor is full of fallen leaves. I will use this to light the firewood. People are camping here for an extended period of time. That's why there are so many tents set up for long periods of time. But today is a weekday, so there are no other campers. I can enter the tent without opening the door. It has become a very old tent. The cats just had a territorial fight. I was surprised. I can hear the cats fighting very roughly. hi!. I'll give the cat something to eat. He's crying very sadly over there. The wood fire burns fairly well and is warm. I just realized there was ash on my face. There is a lot of ash on my clothes too. I will wash my clothes when I get home. Wipe my face roughly. I will eat quickly. Just by looking at it, it looks very delicious. I picked up firewood earlier. If you add these small twigs, the flame will become stronger at once. It's just delicious. Stir-fried bean sprouts and pork. ZZAN. These small peppers were sold at the supermarket. I love Vietnamese peppers. Eat it with sauce. delicious!. It's the taste I wanted. It's the best combination. I think I fit in well with Goryeong-gun. Eat healthy food during the day and soothe my mouth with strong flavors in the evening. The rice cake has become soft. There is a small ventilation hole here. Eat it with soybean paste. Divide into two bites. The weather is getting colder and it's getting really steamy. I am alone in this campsite. There is a transparent window that allows me to see the outside, so it feels like I'm outside as if I'm inside. Perfect. Delicious Tteokbokki. Seafood is grilled deliciously. The cat has arrived. I think he smelled shrimp. He ends up eating it. The cat snack I bought earlier. This is crazy delicious. It's not a grown cat yet. It's about a year old. It's not over yet!. I think it's the first time he has ever tasted it. The cat's voice is so cute. why? What do you hate? Give me shrimp too! That cat keeps circling around me. It is a cheese cat, but judging by its stripes, it seems to be a less gentle cat. Cats with stripes have a strong wild nature. It's cooked very well. It's steaming. It's really delicious even if you eat it with the skin. It's crunchy. He keeps making me uncomfortable. The shrimp are really delicious. The cat keeps fussing so I'm handing out shrimp. How can it be so delicious just by grilling it like this? It's amazing to see him eating well. Shrimp are disappearing quickly. It's almost embarrassing. I think it's because we have two mouths. He's almost like my pet cat. I'm grilling more shrimp. In the meantime, I'll lie down for a bit. The cat is calling me very desperately. I brought a pillow today. Shrimps and clams taste better when grilled until slightly dry. Two bottles of makgeolli today. The cat keeps crying. It's a little disturbing. But it's delicious. That cat is tired of shrimp now. It looks like he's waiting for another snack. Eat this! It's so cozy right now that I think I'll fall asleep like this. There is a coziness unique to winter camping. The stove light is off and it's chilly inside the tent. I put my pillow in my sleeping bag and slept. I will carry it with me often. I drank a lot of makgeolli yesterday and fell into a deep sleep. I feel refreshed when I wake up. The sun is rising now. I'll go for a walk. The weather is really nice. Take a light morning walk. There is a path where you can walk for about 30 minutes. There were really nice lights on that road last night. This is the trail. It's a nice warehouse. I think it would be nice to build a house like this in the future. There are well-maintained trails around the campsite. I saw a cat passing by earlier. Are you going to work? The cat doesn't seem to be gentle. Are you asking for something to eat? This is a cat with an injured tail. It looks like someone cured it. Since the cat lives outside, it seems difficult to use regular bandages. I arrived earlier than the museum opening time. It was a move too fast. The cat in front is so cute. Three guardian spirits. cute. cute. Is it here?? Ancient tombs?. Is there someone in there? There are a lot of ancient burial mounds. It's there and it's there. There are so many. It is similar to Gyeongju City. Is someone sleeping in here? That's a museum where cats live. I came that way. This is the shelter where I stayed well last night. It is said that the clouds here are very beautiful. The weather is so nice right now. So everything is so clear. This is where I went earlier. iron making place. amazing. ('Gaya' was an iron country.) Hello! It's the first time meeting this cat. This is the cat that came to me yesterday. good. The cat's color is the protective color of the leaves. I have to listen to the voice and find him. There are many different types of meat in this area. This is pork ribs cut like LA ribs. After all, meat for breakfast. Without any other sauce, cucumbers are seasoned with soybean paste and it goes well together. Refill immediately. I want to eat ramen, but I don't have enough space on the stove. Instead, I will eat this, which I often eat when I go backpacking. Contains ramen. It doesn't close completely. I want to eat it quickly. 10 minutes after fever. It's really delicious to eat pork ribs cut like this. While cooking, keep my cell phone busy. The cat is calling me very desperately. here!. His name is 'mungchi'. It's a 'mungchi'!. This is really delicious. I'll give it to you. It's a gift for you, but you take it as if it was entrusted to you. I'm feeding the cat. It almost looks like the cat in my home. This is so delicious. He's almost on the verge of kissing me. He keeps asking for food. It definitely tastes better when you smash and eat cucumbers. But I just eat like this. I had a good time today as well and cleaned up here. Bye!. I had a good time today as well and cleaned up here. Bye!. I thought it was winter, but it's still hot during the day. Is it summer?. Is it fall?. Has winter not come yet?