Jesus Came to Save Sinners An Earnest Conversation with Those Who Written by Charles H. Spurgeon To You discuss this most important topic, I've chosen this book the Holy Spirit can impress them with no matter who reads and is impressed with the go on to become great winners of souls. peace by what they read? A more important A certain man built a fountain by the side of chain. Sometime later, a well-known art critic criticism the man who built the fountain asked, He was told thousands of poor people, men, this fountain. He smiled because he wasn't really he only hoped the critic himself might be refreshed and praise the name of the Lord. fault if you want, but please drink of the water rather bless the soul of the rag-gatherer or people crossing dirty urban streets in exchange royal bloodline and fail to convert him to God. we are agreed from the beginning. My goal and heaven. Oh, how I hope we can seek this book with prayer. Won't you join me by looking up it? The foreseeing care and guidance of God has a little spare time in which to read them, you is a good sign. Who knows what blessing will come Today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your Introduction I heard a story about a minister who called give her financial help, because he knew she was at the door, but she didn't answer. He decided later, he met her at the church and told her he'd knocked several times,&quot; he said. &quot;I supposed you &quot;What time was this, sir?&quot; &quot;Oh dear,&quot; she said. &quot;I heard you, and I am the landlord calling for the rent.&quot; Many who are It is my desire to be heard, and therefore, Without question, the object of this book that salvation is totally by grace, which Often, when we want to gain someone's attention, what I'm required to do. This man knocking is due to God. But I'm sure I have nothing to This book isn't like this. It doesn't it brings you something. We aren't going to we will talk about love, goodness, forgiveness, like you're not at home - don't turn a deaf ear or name of God or man. It's not my intent to require name to bring you a free gift which will bring Open the door, and let my sincere pleas enter. Lord Himself invites you to meet to discuss your do this if He didn't mean well toward you. Don't because He knocks with a hand which was nailed to only purpose is your good, draw near and listen your soul. It may be the time has come for you of heaven. Faith comes by hearing, and reading come to you while reading this book. Why not? Scripture: Whosoever drinks of the water that but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a fountain of water springing Chapter 1 This message found in the letter to the Romans but believes in him that justifies the ungodly, 4:5). I call your attention to these words, surprised to see such an expression in These words seem incredibly wonderful to me, but of the cross complain against God because He saves Himself. See how this Scripture clearly accepts by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, He ungodly. He makes those just who are unjust, and grants grace to those who don't deserve it. good? That God's grace is only for the pure and that if you were spiritually worthy God would you are not worthy, there's no way you'll then you must find it somewhat surprising to ungodly. It's no wonder you're surprised. Even it never ceases to amaze me. It seems astonishing to justify an unholy person, doesn't it? for salvation, we tend to always talk about stubbornly hold to the idea that there must of us. But this is a deception, and God sees no goodness whatsoever in us. He says that there and He knows all our righteousnesses [are] the Lord Jesus didn't come into the world looking grant these virtues to people in need of them. He for He is the One that justifies the ungodly. honest man, he desires to plead the case of false charges before the court. The lawyer's and he shouldn't attempt to protect the guilty the power truly to justify the guilty. This God, the infinitely just Sovereign, knows there is not sin (Ecclesiastes 7:20). Therefore, in the splendor of His indescribable love, He undertakes as of justifying the ungodly (Mark 2:17). God it possible for the ungodly man to stand justly set up a system by which He can treat the guilty In this way, He can treat them as if they are Jesus Christ came into the world to save thing to be marveled at most of all by those who greatest miracle I've ever heard of that God I feel like I'm a lump of unworthiness, an However, I know without a doubt that I'm justified I'm treated like I've lived perfectly upright, with Christ. Yet by birth, I must take my place but I'm treated as if I am deserving. I'm loved lived godly, while in times past I was ungodly. such kindness stands dressed in robes of wonder. how it makes the gospel available to you and me. you. When you look at yourself honestly, isn't received grace through faith, you're unconverted, that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God description of you, because you've lived Perhaps you know a little about God and give lip Him. You use His name in vain, you cheat on taxes, Perhaps you are even living in sexual immorality, Or, you may have even doubted God's existence and on this beautiful earth full of evidence that you've shut your eyes to the clear demonstration if there is no God, and it would have pleased certainty that He didn't exist. It could be that now pretty well settled in your ways. But God &quot;ungodly.&quot; And the label would fit, wouldn't it? Perhaps you've regularly taken part but your heart isn't in them. Even though you've met with God yourself on a personal level. You've your lips but not with your heart. You've lived regard for His commands in your daily life. If any of this rings true for you, you're just sent - this gospel which says that God justifies it is also thankfully available for you. If remarkable grace of God in His provision for &quot;Justify me, the ungodly! Why shouldn't I be all my heart, I wish you would accept it! deserve it and have no way to make themselves but it is a reasonable statement because the have no justification of their own. That righteous would have no need of justifying. obligation, and by living this way almost you. If that's the case, what do you need with a justification? If you are living this way, because it will be of no interest to you. If you to me for a little while longer. What you're because when your righteousness is all your own You are lost, as sure as you are alive, because there is not a just man upon earth that in In any case, I have no gospel to preach to the didn't come to call the righteous, and I am not to accept the true gospel, and you think you're I won't call you for less than the moral instead I tell you to look at that righteousness It isn't even half as substantial as a The only people who can realize their need for accomplish it on their own (Galatians 2:16). in order to make them just before the judgment what is needful, and in His infinite wisdom, to make a person just who is already just fool. But to make an unjust person just - that the ungodly - this is a miracle worthy of God. a precious cure proven to work, to whom would are perfectly healthy? I don't think so. If he's there's nothing for him to do. Scripture: They but they that are sick (Mark 2:17). Isn't it and redemption are for the sick of soul? These because they would be of no use to them. (Jesus) has come into the world for you, for the was lost (Luke 19:10). If you are totally undone at in the plan of salvation. When He arranged the like you in mind. Suppose a man with a generous to him. It makes sense that this can only apply thousand dollars, another owes him fifty dollars. and the liability is wiped out. But even the most don't owe him anything. It's even out of the power because there can be no pardon if you have no sin. for the sinful. It is absurd to talk about pardoning those who have never offended. you are a sinner? This is in fact the reason you a sinner, I encourage you to believe grace is hymn writers even dared to say: The Holy Ghost hath made him so. and to save that which was lost (Luke 19:10). He If people are serious about what they say when overjoyed to meet with them. I'm happy because the inn of mercy never closes its doors imaginary sins. His heart's blood was spilled to else can remove. The person who is a sinner is the On one occasion, a preacher preached a sermon from trees. He delivered it in such a way that one of you were preaching to criminals. Your sermon &quot;Oh no,&quot; the preacher said. &quot;If I was preaching text. I would preach from this one: This is a that Christ Jesus came into the world to for the self-righteous, to humble their pride. The If you aren't lost, what do you want with a never went astray? Why would the woman sweep her her purse? No, the medicine is for the diseased. for the guilty, and deliverance is for those who are blind. How can the Savior, His death upon the unless it is based on the belief that men sinner is the gospel's reason for existence. pages of this book, if you are undeserving or for whom the gospel is intended, arranged, I want to make this very clear and I hope it is only the Lord who can make a person see it. could really be for a person lost and guilty. forgetting that repentance is a part of salvation. do this and that.&quot; All of this is true, because of salvation, but salvation comes to him before while he deserves only this bare, beggarly, base, comes to justify him, that is all he is. recognize they have no good thing about them - anything whatsoever that can speak well of them able and willing to take them without anything not because they are good, but because He is good. well as on the good? Doesn't He give fruitful their time upon the most ungodly nations? Even The great grace of God surpasses anything you above the earth, so high are God's thoughts abundantly pardon. Jesus Christ came into for the guilty. Don't attempt to touch up your other than what you really are. Instead, come A short time ago, a great artist painted a part of he wanted to include in his picture certain ragged, filthy crossing sweeper was known for him in the picture. The artist said &quot;I will pay you well if you come to my studio and came around in the morning but was quickly sent combed his hair, and donned a respectable needed as a beggar and wasn't invited in any other you into its halls if you come as a sinner, not but come immediately for salvation. God justifies justification meets you in your worst condition. come to your heavenly Father in all your sin leprous, filthy, naked, not fit to live or die. you hardly dare to hope for anything but death, over you, pressing in on you like a horrible another ungodly one - you. Why wouldn't He? This I put it in the language straight from the The Lord God Himself takes on this gracious who by nature are ungodly, He makes just and wonderful news? Don't put this off until Chapter 2 What a wonderful thing it is, this being justified broke the laws of God, we wouldn't need to be The person who has done the things he should he shouldn't is justified by the law. But I'm much honesty to pretend to be without sin and if you try to justify yourself, you'll don't try it. It is never worth it. they do? You can make some of them speak well of of you for less. Their judgment isn't worth much. a lot more to the point. It's an astonishing In the first place, nobody but God would ever They've lived in open rebellion and committed worse and turned back to sin even after they for awhile. They've broken the law and trampled mercy and have persisted in ungodliness. The people in their lives look at this and bleakly look at them with sorrow rather than with hope. some of them before the foundation of the world, rest until He has justified them and made them And unto those whom he did mark out beforehand he called, these he also justified; and to whom 8:30)? When you look at it in this way, you see Why shouldn't you and I be among them? of justifying me. I'm a wonder to myself and don't Consider Saul of Tarsus1, who was born to Jewish studied Jewish law under the famous rabbi Gamaliel the early church. He entered homes of believers he worried the lambs and the sheep at every turn, while he was on his way to arrest believers and so fully justified him that before justification by faith who ever lived. the Hebrew Saul to his Gentile name Paul and news. He must often have marveled that he was was once a determined stickler for salvation by ever thought of justifying such a man as Saul the Even if someone thought about justifying because it is impossible for a person to forgive them. Yes, you can forgive a person who has but no third-party person can forgive the offender the pardon must come from you. However, all sin it is in God's power to forgive because the sin is Against thee, against thee only, have I for God can forgive the offense because He is If it pleases Him, our great Creator can forgive it is cancelled. No one but the great God whom we let's make sure we go to Him and seek mercy at would want us to confess to them instead Word of God for their claims. Even if they were it's still better to go directly to the great to seek and find pardon at His hand. It is rather than to leave them in some man's hands. do it to perfection. He casts our sins behind though they are sought for, they won't be found infinite goodness, He has prepared a glorious way (Isaiah 1:18), and removes our transgressions (Psalm 103:12). He says, their iniquities does whatever is necessary to make an end of sin. Who is a God like unto thee that pardons iniquity, his heritage? He did not retain his anger for We're not speaking of justice now, nor men according to their rewards. If you agree to you are threatened with everlasting that's what you deserve. Scripture: He nor rewarded us according to our iniquities of free grace and infinite compassion. I will love them freely (Hosea 14:4). the great God is able to treat the guilty with as if they've always lived godly. Read the parable and you'll see how the forgiving father received he'd never gone away and never contaminated so far that the elder brother began to grumble My dear reader, no matter how guilty you may faith in Jesus Christ, He will treat you as a marvelous thing it is that God would think Again, I want to make this very clear. No one it. Look how the apostle Paul puts the question: he that justifies them (Romans 8:33). If God it is done right, it is impartially I read a statement written in a magazine against Christians hold some kind of theory by which Let's be clear. We hold no theory; we declare that Christ, by His precious blood, actually deals with people with divine mercy. He not according to anything He sees in them, or riches of His mercy which lie in His own heart and will preach as long as we live. Scripture: that justifies the ungodly. He isn't ashamed of The justification which comes from God is who can condemn me? If the highest court who can charge me with anything? Scripture: is he who died and, even more, he that also rose God, who also makes entreaty for us (Romans answer to an awakened conscience. The Holy Spirit no longer afraid. With this justification, language of Satan and ungodly people. With this, and face the last great judgement - not guilty. &quot;For who ought to my charge shall lay? From sin's tremendous curse and blame.&quot; The Lord can blot out all your sins. I'm not God's Word says, All manner of sin and blasphemy Though you're steeped up to your neck in crime, and say, I will; be thou clean (Matthew &quot;I believe in the forgiveness of sins3.&quot; Do you? has saved thee; go in peace (Luke 7:50), and or under the earth, can place you under suspicion, almighty love. You couldn't forgive your fellow but don't measure God by yourself. His thoughts are high above the earth (Isaiah 55:8-9). Lord were to pardon me.&quot; You're right. It would be because He does great and difficult things, In my own case, I was stuck with such a horrible But when I heard the command, Look unto me, and be and there is no one else (Isaiah 45:22), I looked I looked to Him, I saw Jesus Christ made sin for When those who were bitten by the fiery serpent of brass they were healed immediately to the crucified Savior. The Holy Spirit, who believing. Before this, I felt condemned, but once because the Word of God declared it. I had conscience agreed. But when the Lord justified Word of the Lord in the Scripture says, He that and my conscience bears witness that I believed I have the witness of the Holy Spirit and my own how I wish you would receive God's immediately have the witness in yourself also. stands on more certain footing than a if there could be such a person. For we can and our conscience would always be uneasy have the shaky verdict of human judgment to rely bears witness - that gives us peace with God. This and we enter into rest (Hebrews 4:3). No tongue over the soul that receives the peace of God Chapter 3 We have seen the ungodly justified and have justify any person. Now we will take it a step guilty people? We can find the answer in the words God has been manifested, being witnessed by the of God by the faith of Jesus, the Christ, for for there is no difference; for all have sinned being justified freely by his grace through the purposed for reconciliation through faith in his for the remission of sins that are past, by the righteousness that he only be the just one and the Now, if you'll permit me, I want to share a bit the hand of the Holy Spirit, I was convicted justice of God. Sin, whatever it might be to to me. It wasn't so much that I feared hell, guilty and felt that if God didn't punish me I sat on the judgment seat, and I condemned I could do nothing other than send such a While going through this, I also had a deep integrity of His moral leadership on my mind. It be forgiven unjustly. The sin I committed had of how God could be just, and yet justify me - the and yet the justifier?&quot; I was worried and wearied it. Certainly, I could never have invented To my way of thinking, the doctrine of the divine inspiration of Holy Scripture. For my atonement is, it is that Christ Jesus died on the way, He fulfilled the sacrificial system of the God and changed our lives forever. Who would for the unjust rebel? This isn't a teaching imagination. This act of atoning for a crime - the guilt is done away and the obligation the crime is canceled - is only known about conceived it, for God Himself ordained it. sacrifice of Jesus from the time I was a youth, know any more about it than if I had been born the truth was there in Scripture, but I was clear to me. When He did, it came to me like a about Jesus being declared the propitiation Every newborn child of God receives such a substitution of the Lord Jesus. I came to substitutional sacrifice and that provision for of God - the co-equal and co-eternal with the a chosen people from the beginning so He could our fall from God's ways wasn't a personal our ancestral representative, the first Adam, Jesus, it became possible for us to be recovered covenant Head of His people, to be their second man Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam was I saw that before I actually sinned I had my first father's sin, and I rejoiced that it of Scripture - for me to come to life through Adam left a loophole of escape. Another Adam - the While I was anxious about the possibility of a and saw by faith that this last Adam is Jesus, the He bore my sin on the cross. The punishment I 6:23) was laid on Him. I was healed through His life in Christ Jesus our Lord (Romans 6:23). that? Have you ever understood how God can the penalty, but be infinitely merciful and to Him? It's possible because the Son of God, vindicated me by fulfilling the law by bearing pass by my sin. The law of God was upheld more by to hell. For the Son of God to suffer for sin was God than for the whole human race to suffer. Do you see the wonder in this? See Him you see the most significant sight you'll ever there in one person bearing unspeakable pain - Oh, the glory of that sight. The innocent made a curse. The infinitely glorious put to a more I look at the sufferings of the Son of case. Why did He suffer, if not to turn aside the by His death, then it is out of the way. Those who since atonement is made, God is able to forgive tarnishing the law in the least. The tremendous The wrath of God against sin is more terrible than said it very well, Who knows the power of thine of glory cry, Why hast thou forsaken me? (Matthew we feel the justice of God abundantly perfect and terrible death given by such a divine what more can be done? There is more in the in all human sin to deserve blame or punishment. can swallow up the mountains of our sins - good of this one representative Man, the Lord however unworthy they may be. It's a miracle stand in our stead and that &quot;He bore, that we But He has done so. It is finished (John 19:30). His Son. God can pass over your sins because He two thousand years ago. If you believe in Jesus away by Him as the scapegoat for His people. saying, &quot;He is God and the Savior.&quot; It means accept Him for all your salvation from this time your all. If you will accept Jesus, He has you cannot go to hell, because that would It can't be that a sacrifice would be that sacrifice has been received still dies. then why a sacrifice? If Jesus died in my place, that the sacrifice was actually made for him. own. As a result, he can know for certain that this offering on our behalf and then condemn written in the blood of His Son and then cut will accept the grace offered to you immediately the source of mercy to guilty man - Jesus. justifies them, and for that reason it can only of His divine Son. Consequently, it can be ever question it. So thoroughly done that in there will be no one who will deny the Who is he that condemns them? Christ, Jesus, is he who furthermore is at the right hand of God, Will you come into this lifeboat, just as Accept the undisputable deliverance. You say, to bring anything with you. People who escape behind. Leap for salvation just as you are. you. My sole hope for going to heaven lies in the ungodly. I rely firmly on that. I don't in the same condition. Neither of us has Let's join hands and stand together at the foot and completely to Him who shed His blood for same Savior. What more can I do to prove my own Chapter 4 At this point, I want to speak clearly to those faith in Christ Jesus, but who still struggle restful, or spiritually healthy until we but how can we accomplish this impossible task? The old nature is very strong, and you may have be subdued. You're anxious to do better but the will is so obstinate, the passions the imagination so out of control, and the a den of wild beasts within you, which will We can say of our fallen nature what the Lord said Wilt thou play with him as with a bird, or wilt A man might as well hope to hold the north to control those unruly powers which lie within a greater feat than anything done by the strength One might say, &quot;I believe Jesus will forgive sin, I feel such awful tendencies to do evil. As falls to the ground again, so am I with sin. For I return again to my hard-hearted state. It's like I'm held under a spell where If this is your struggle, take heart. Salvation this part of our ruined condition. We want to (being made righteous) without sanctification It would be like calling a leper clean and forgive the rebellion and allow the rebel to the consequences but overlook the cause, and this It would stop the stream of sin for a time, but sooner or later burst forth with increased power. in three ways. He came to remove the penalty of You can reach the second part immediately. and then you'll be on the road to the third part he appeared to take away our sins (1 John 3:5). name Jesus, for he shall save his people from to destroy in us the works of the Devil. The same in His death. When the soldier pierced His side, a the double cure by which we are delivered However, if you're troubled about the power of sin as you may well be, here is a promise because it is founded in that covenant of has said, And I will give you a new heart, and take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and You see, it is all I will, and I put. I the royal style of the King of Kings, who is will ever fall to the ground (1 Samuel 3:19). your own heart, and you can't cleanse your own can cause the Ethiopian to change his skin, and He can create you a second time. He can cause and the Holy Spirit will perform it. It would at the foot of Niagara Falls and say something to run upstream and send that torrent of water it now rolls in stupendous force. Nothing but This Niagara Falls example offers a fitting of your nature is totally reversed. All things are your desires and the current of your life. Instead your whole being have a tendency to flow upward promised to do for all who are in the covenant. in the covenant. Let me share the words again: I the stony heart out of their flesh and will What a wonderful promise. Christ Jesus agrees with Let's lay hold of it, accept it as true, and adopt and in days and years to come, we'll be the sovereign grace of God has worked in us. stony heart, that deed is done. Once that is new heart He gives and the right spirit which and calling of God are without repentance (Romans will not change His mind. He doesn't take away and you will be renewed. People's resolutions lives soon come to an end, for as a dog returns (Proverbs 26:11). But when God puts a new heart To put it simply, have you ever heard of cat and the sow? I will offer my own version Except a person be born again from above, Do you see that cat? What a clean creature she is. and her paws. It is quite an appealing sight. Did is contrary to its nature. It prefers to wallow in see how little success you achieve. It would be a but teaching them to wash and clean themselves wash that sow by force, but it will just hurry The only way you can get a sow to wash itself wash and be clean, but not until then. Suppose was difficult or impossible is easy enough. From parlor and the rug in front of your hearth. can't force them to do what a renewed man good example for them, but they can't learn the to do it. Their nature leads them another way. everything is different. This change is so great, world is changed, or else I am.&quot; The new nature wanders after wrong. What a blessing to receive Did it ever strike you what a wonderful thing it spirit to a person? Perhaps you've seen a lobster of its claws, and a new claw has grown. That is that a person could have a new heart given to him. There is a tree that when you cut off one of But can you change the tree? Can you sweeten sour but you can graft something better into it. This grace, but to absolutely change the vital It is just such a wonder and mystery that the If you yield yourself to His divine working, the old nature and breathe new life into you. Put your the stony heart out of your flesh and give you a everything will become tender. Where everything Where everything tended to go downward, everything of anger will give way to the lamb of meekness, dove of purity. The vile serpent of deceit With my own eyes, I've seen such marvelous I know there's no one who is hopeless. If it once unchaste but are now as pure as the driven once blasphemers who now delight those around them made honest, drunkards sober, liars truthful, and that brings salvation has appeared to all men, lusts, we should live temperately, righteously, it will do the same for you (Titus 2:11-12). said you could? The Scripture which we have but about what God will do. It is God's promise, fulfill His Word to you, and it will be done. What business is that of yours? Must the Lord The Lord's working in this matter is a great a spiritual matter, not a physical matter. He who the promise, and He is equal to the occasion. surely carry it out in as many as receive Him, even to them that believe on his name (John 1:12). the gracious Lord the justice to believe that He you would believe that God cannot lie. Trust Him give them to you. May the Lord give you faith Holy Spirit, and faith in Him, and to Him shall be Chapter 5 For by grace are ye saved I think it is best to turn to the side for a the fountainhead - the source of our By grace are ye saved. Because God is gracious, and saved. It isn't because of anything or anything they've done or ever can do that they goodness, pity, compassion, mercy, and grace of pure river of the water of life as it proceeds Who can measure the extensiveness of the grace of of the divine attributes, His grace is infinite. 4:8). God is full of goodness. The very name and love enter into the very heart of the Godhead, People are not destroyed because His compassions sinners are brought to Him and forgiven. of fixing your mind so much on faith, which is grace which is the fountain and source even of in us. No one can say that Jesus is the Christ but hath also said: 'No man cometh unto Me, except that faith which results in coming to Christ pulls us toward the Father. Grace is the first essential as it is, is only an important part of through faith, but salvation is by grace. Let archangel's trumpet: By grace are ye saved. Faith works like a channel or conduit pipe while the aqueduct along which the flood of mercy is a great pity when the aqueduct is broken. It around Rome which no longer carry water into the structures are in ruins. The aqueduct must be even then, faith must be founded in truth coming right down to us, so it can become Again, I remind you that faith is only the source of blessing. We must not look to faith in which is the divine source of all blessing. Don't of your salvation. Our new life is found not in looking to our own faith. By yet the power isn't in the faith, but in the God engine and faith is the chain by which the coach faith isn't the moral excellence of faith, but faith grasps and seizes hold of. Peace within of our own faith. It comes to us from Him who touches and virtue comes out of into the soul. destroy you. A trembling hand can still receive a even if we have faith the size of a grain grace of God and not in our faith. Great and the peace-giving witness of the Holy Spirit faith which seems almost unable to sustain you look than about the look itself. See nothing Chapter 6 What is this faith we read about in Ephesians faith? Faith has many descriptions, but almost me understand it less than I did before I understands it. I hope I won't be guilty of that, its simplicity, it is more difficult to explain. knowledge, belief, and trust. Knowledge comes whom they have not heard? (Romans 10:14). I want Faith comes by hearing (Romans 10:17). We must Scripture: And those that know thy name will put knowledge is essential to faith. For this reason, Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your of Isaiah the prophet, and it's still the word what the Holy Spirit teaches concerning Christ For he that comes to God must believe that he is seek him (Hebrews 11:6). May the Holy Spirit give Lord. Know the gospel: know what the good news a change of heart, of adoption into the family Specifically, know Christ Jesus the Son of God, nature, and who is still one with God. Because of God and man - able to lay His hand on both to the judge of all the earth. Endeavor to know endeavor to know the doctrine of the sacrifice faith mainly fixes itself is this: God was in imputing their trespasses unto them (2 Corinthians (for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangs doctrine of the substitutionary work of Christ, guilty is found in it, since the Lord has made might be made the righteousness of God in him (2 Based on this knowledge, the mind goes The soul believes God hears the cries of a and that justification by faith is the great truth Spirit. Along with the mind and the soul, the our God and Savior, the Redeemer of mankind, the is accepted as certain and unquestionable truth. truth and firmly believe that the blood of Jesus 1:7), and that His sacrifice is complete so that he that believes on him is not because the difference between common faith and exercise it. Believe the witness of God just own father or friend. If we receive the witness of So far, you've made progress toward faith, complete it - trust. Commit yourself to the gospel. Trust your soul to the dying and living blood. Accept His perfect righteousness faith. Without it, there's no saving faith. recumbency. It meant &quot;leaning on a thing.&quot; on Christ. An even better illustration would of Ages. Cast yourself on Jesus. Rest in Him. you've exercised saving faith. because faith begins with knowledge. It believes facts of which it is sure. It isn't an and stakes its destiny on the truth of revelation. Here's another. Faith is believing Christ what He promised to do, and then to expect Christ as being God - God in human flesh. They made a sin offering on our behalf, and bearing Scripture speaks of Him as having finished in everlasting righteousness (Daniel 9:24). rose again (1 Thessalonians 4:14), that He ever that He has gone up into glory, and that He His people. It also says that He will come righteousness, he shall judge the peoples believe that this is true, because the testimony hear him (Luke 9:35). This is also testified by witness to Christ in the inspired Word, by various We are to believe this testimony to be true. has promised. Since He promised that he that comes it is certain that He won't cast us out if we The water that I shall give him shall be in eternal life (John 4:14), it must be true. it will abide in us and will well up within us in to do He will do. We must believe this - we must and eternal glory from His hands, according For the next necessary step let us look at Jesus will do what He says He will do, and for saying, &quot;He will be to me what He says He is, do. I leave myself in the hands of Him who is on His promise that He will do everything He believes in the Son has eternal life (John 3:36). whatever darkness and depression, whatever Christ Jesus in this way shall not come into (John 5:24). I trust these truths can be into immediate peace. Be not afraid, only My fear is that you might rest content with an never do it. The poorest real faith that's ideal faith left floundering with speculation believe on the Lord Jesus right now. Never mind even though he doesn't understand the composition process of digestion. He lives because he eats. understand the science of nutrition, but if knowledge. No doubt, there are many in hell faith but didn't believe. On the other hand, Lord Jesus has ever been cast out, even though define his faith. Receive the Lord Jesus into in heaven. Scripture: He that believes Chapter 7 To make the matter of faith clearer still, in While only the Holy Spirit can make you see, it's and to pray the divine Lord opens blind eyes. I Faith which saves has It is the eye which gives vision. Via the eye, With a glance of our eyes, we can bring the sun by trust, we bring the Lord Jesus near to He enters into our heart. Only look to Jesus. This a Look at the Crucified One&quot; is exactly true: There is life at this moment for thee. our hand takes hold of anything, it does precisely the blessings of His redemption. Faith says, blood and cries, &quot;I accept it to pardon me.&quot; Faith and they are because faith is Christ's heir. He Accept what grace has provided for you. You won't Scripture: Whosoever will, let him take of the one who can make a treasure his own simply by Faith is like the mouth. It feeds on Christ. into us. This is a simple matter - this eating the mouth and it passes into our inward parts The word is near thee, even in thy mouth (Romans all that needs to be done is to swallow it. People need to be taught how to eat. One would say, and would be fully prepared to do the rest. Christ has only to know that He is freely receive Him. If you are in this situation, sure that you'll never be blamed for doing so, he power to become sons of God (John 1:12). He authorizes all who come to remain sons forever. ways. The farmer buries good seed in the also to multiply. He has faith in the promise (Genesis 8:22), and he is rewarded for his faith. banker and totally trusts the honesty his capital into another's hands and the solid gold locked up in an iron safe. he boards his ship he takes his foot from the This couldn't be accomplished if he didn't The goldsmith puts precious metal into but he receives it back again from There's nowhere you can turn in life without and another or between a person and natural law. way we are to trust in God as He is revealed in various degrees, according to the amount of their little more than a simple clinging to Christ - a When you visit the seaside you'll see marine up to the rock and strike a rapid blow to the comes. Try doing the same to the next mollusk. blow which struck his neighbor, so he clings You can strike and strike again and even break even though it doesn't know or understand much - with the geological formation of the rock, but yet cling to. This is the sum of all its knowledge, It is the mollusk's life to cling to the Jesus. Thousands of God's people have no more Jesus with all their heart and soul, and this is Jesus Christ is Savior strong and mighty, a to Him for dear life, and this clinging saves Faith is seen when one person relies on another This is a higher faith than the clinging mollusk dependence and acts upon it. I don't think the grows, it becomes more and more intelligent. because he knows that his guide can see, so he the poor man is born blind, he doesn't know what that his guide possesses it. For this reason, he one and follows his leadership. Scripture: For we Blessed are those that have not seen and yet have of faith as there can be. We know that Jesus has and for that reason, we gladly trust ourselves to We trust Him as the blind man trusts his guide. He us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification Every boy that goes to school has to exert faith geography and teaches him about the earth and the boy doesn't know these things are true except that you'll have to do with Christ, if you are to be He tells you; believe because He assures you He promises salvation will be the result. to us through faith. When a scientific on what grounds do we believe it? On the whose reputations are established. We have we believe their proof. You must do the same with you are to be His disciple and believe His words. be His follower and entrust yourself to Him. He is to your confidence as your Master and Lord. If Another and even higher form of faith is that trust his father? The child trusts his father faith in Jesus, intertwined with deep affection is a peaceful confidence. These lovers of Jesus They are carried away by the loving-kindness because they admire, revere, and love Him so much. illustrated like this. A lady is the wife of the dangerous illness, she is struck down by its because her husband has made this disease his similarly afflicted. She isn't troubled in the hands of one so dear to her - and in whom skill faith is reasonable and natural. From every point is the kind of faith the happiest of believers Him. No one can save like He can. We love Him, into His hands, accept whatever He prescribes, be out of order while He directs our affairs, (2 Peter 3:9) or suffer a single needless pang. clearly seen in the matters of life. When a into port, he manages the vessel according to a guide to lead him over a difficult pass, he patient believes in a physician, he carefully Faith which refuses to obey the commands never save the soul. Jesus gives us and if we follow those directions we are saved. prove your trust by doing whatever He tells you. knowledge which comes from growth in grace. This Him and trusts Him, because it has proved Him to in the habit of writing &quot;T&amp;P&quot; in the margin of her How easy it is to trust a tried and proven Savior. Everything must have a beginning. In due time, doesn't ask for signs, but bravely believes. have often marveled at it. He loosens his cable or even months, he never sees sail or shore, and one morning he finds himself directly opposite does he find his way over the trackless deep? his telescope, and the heavenly bodies. he steers so accurately that he doesn't change a Spiritually, it is a blessed thing to totally and to say good-bye to inward feelings, promising be far out on the ocean of divine love, believing direction of the Word of God. Scripture: Blessed (John 20:29). An abundant entrance will be given Won't you put your trust in God in Christ and I ask you to come with me and believe Chapter 8 Why is faith the chosen channel of often-asked question. Scripture: For by grace certainly doctrine from Holy Scripture and selected rather than hope, or love, or patience? such a question, because God's ways aren't always question them. Humbly we should say that, as far channel of grace because faith naturally adapts to If I'm ready to give a poor man a charitable it would hardly be fitting to put it into is made to receive, and, like the hand of Faith that receives Christ is as simple an act because you hold it out and promise to give him receiving relate only to an apple, but they that deals with eternal salvation. What the to the perfect salvation of Christ. The child's nor deserve the apple. It only receives it. of salvation, because it doesn't pretend to it's content to humbly receive it. the hand which receives it, and the eye which sees never makes herself her own plea. Her argument good servant that brings the riches of the Lord source from which she drew them. She admits Again, faith is no doubt selected because it so it might be by grace, and it is of grace so endure pride. Scripture: The proud he does to come nearer to them. He won't give salvation Not of works, lest any man should boast The hand which receives charity doesn't say, That would be absurd. When the hand lifts bread to because I feed you.&quot; It is a very simple thing. It never claims glory for itself for what to receive the unspeakable gift of His grace, must adore the gracious God who is the giver of and therefore the Lord Jesus was to be used to Thy faith has saved thee; go in peace (Luke 7:50). salvation because it is a sure method which it creates a point that joins the two, and that it makes us cling to God and connects us to Him. and I can't think of a better one. It's that overturned above the falls of Niagara. and people on the shore managed to float a One of the men held fast to the rope and was let go of the rope when he saw a big log float was bigger than the rope and to his thinking the went right over the falls into the vast abyss, the log and the shore. The size of the log was of connection with the shore to produce safety. his works, sacraments, ordinances, or anything because there is no connection between him and slender cord, is in the hands of the great God on line and pulls the man from destruction. Oh, the Faith is also chosen as a conduit of grace because ordinary things, a certain sort of faith lies it would be wrong to say we never do anything if I walk across my study, it is because eats because he believes in the necessity of the value of money. He accepts a check because discovered America because he believed another Fathers colonized it because they believed Most great deeds have been born of faith, whether through the person in whom it dwells. Faith in its into all kinds of human actions. Possibly the in an evil way, has the most faith. In reality, ridiculous, if it weren't so disgraceful. faith in us He touches the real mainspring of taken possession of the battery through which the sacred current to every part of our nature. into the possession of God, then we are saved zeal, prayer, and every other gracious thing. use. What oil is to the wheels, what weights what sails are to a ship, that's what faith is mind. Have faith, and all other graces Faith has the power of working through and draws the heart after the best things. He doubt. Faith is an act of the understanding, but heart one believes unto righteousness (Romans because it resides next door to the passions and and nursemaid of every holy feeling and act. Love To love God and to love man is to be conformed Similarly, faith creates peace and joy. The one They are glad and joyous, which is training for for this reason among others - that faith works in displayed in heaven above. Faith furnishes us and teaches us about the life to come. It enables and it prepares us for action and for a most convenient medium for conveying grace Faith certainly does for us what nothing else to stop striving and to enter into rest (Psalm by other means? An old preacher says, &quot;A sets his shoulder to it and pushes with all his even when he uses all his strength. Another and enters right in. Those who hope to be saved by Faith is the key which opens the gate instantly.&quot; believe in His dear Son, and in doing so, you Scripture: He that believes and is baptized to a way of salvation which entrusts itself Chapter 9 After the anxious heart has accepted the doctrine salvation is by faith in the Lord Jesus, it is to do what is good. Many groan that they can do are expressing a daily burden. They wholeheartedly honestly say, I have the desire, but I am not This feeling seems to make the gospel null and man if he can't get at it? What benefit is the This brings to mind the story of the doctor and told the mother that her little one would but it was absolutely necessary for her boy to time at one of the German spas. Remember, this to eat. In the same way, it sometimes seems to the and live&quot; isn't so simple after all, because it To the truly spiritually awakened but to be a missing link. For them, they can see the to be reached? The soul is without strength, and the city of refuge and can't enter its gate. plan of salvation? It is. The work of the Lord is of us in order to reach its completion. When the and half-dead, he didn't tell him to get up and to the inn. No, he came where he was (Luke 10:33), carried him to the inn. That's how the Lord Jesus We have seen that God justifies - that He through faith in the precious blood of Jesus. Now are in when Jesus works out their salvation. troubled about only their sin but also about escape from the deep mud into which they have later. They not only grieve over what they have powerless, helpless, and spiritually lifeless. and yet on some level it is true, because in They feel they can't travel the road to heaven, of strength have found their hands (Psalm However, we don't need to look to our own mention of God's love to us written in His Word. in his time died for the ungodly (Romans 5:6). relieved - relieved by the Lord's intervention. &quot;When we were comparatively weak Christ died for but rather the description is absolute and no strength whatsoever which could help in our true. Without me ye can do nothing (John 15:5). love with which the Lord loved us, even as we is even more than being without strength. strength has to fix his mind on and firmly divine assurance that He in his time died for the disappear. As in the story of the fabled Midas so it is with true faith - it turns everything become blessings when faith deals with them. strength. To begin with, one person will say, my thoughts and keep them fixed on those serious prayer is almost too much for me. Perhaps this I've harmed myself through over-indulgence, and to the point that I'm not capable of the important This happens to be a very common form of sinful of strength. They can't keep their minds focused lives. Many poor men and women are illiterate and work. Others are so light and trifling by nature and reasoning any more than they can fly. They if they spend their whole life in the effort. continuous thought isn't what's necessary upon Jesus. Hold on to this one fact. In his time require any deep research or profound reasoning this truth. Fix your mind on it and rest there. in your spirit until it perfumes all your thoughts strength. See the Lord Jesus as your strength According to the Scriptures, it is a revealed ungodly when they were still without strength. and yet you've never perceived their meaning. there? Jesus didn't die for our righteousness us because we were worth saving, but because we didn't come to earth because of anything we've which He fetched from the depths of His own divine whom He describes, not as godly, but as ungodly. it can grasp this truth. Hold on to it, for it is lie under your tongue like a sweet morsel, until thoughts. Then it won't matter much even if our who have never been brilliant in science, or have have been fully able to accept the doctrine of I've heard another man say, &quot;My lack of can't repent sufficiently!&quot; People's ideas Many imagine many tears should be shed, many does this unreasonable notion come from? I don't see how they can be fundamental elements them as necessary parts of the true Christian However, I know what they mean, because in the way. I wanted to repent, but I thought I couldn't I was actually repenting. Odd as it may sound, I corner and weep because I couldn't weep. didn't sorrow enough for sin. What a jumble we begin to judge our own condition. It is My heart was melted within me for fear, because stone. My heart was broken to think it wouldn't very thing I thought I didn't possess, but Oh, how I wish I could help others into the to say anything which might shorten the time of words and pray the Comforter, which is the Holy Remember that the person who truly repents We can't repent perfectly any more than we can there will always be some dirt in them, because our greatest sorrow or deepest contrition for sin. sin and Christ, and all the countless things but the main point is the turning of the heart you have the substance of true repentance, even upon your mind. If you can't repent like you [Christ] died for the ungodly, it will really again. How can you continue to be hard-hearted for the ungodly? Let me persuade you to reason even though my heart of steel won't yield, for people like me. Help me to believe this Blot out every other reflection from meditate deeply on this one stunning display Christ died for the ungodly. Read over the account If anything can melt your stubborn heart, it will suffered all this for His enemies. While at Thy cross I kneel, And all Thy sorrows feel. This heart so hard before; And grief o'erflows the more. And I a sinner stand; And from each pierced hand! If you understand the full meaning of the divine opposed to One so full of love. It is written, and they shall mourn over him as one mourns for one afflicts himself over his firstborn (Zechariah but seeing Christ will give you repentance. but you must look for repentance which brings you He turns us from sin. Look away from the effect Jesus who is exalted on high to give repentance. thoughts. Wherever I go, blasphemies a dreadful suggestion forces its way into my from my sleep by whispers of the Evil One. I I can relate to such torment, because I've been fight a swarm of flies with a sword as to master Devil. A poor tempted soul assailed by satanic head, ears, and whole body were attacked by a or escape from them. They stung him everywhere wonder you feel you don't have the strength to Satan pours into your soul. But again I remind when we were yet weak, in his time died for the would be. He saw we couldn't overcome the prince greatly worried by him; but even then, when He saw Cast the anchor of your faith on this. The Devil so believe that Jesus died for you just the way Devil's head off with his own sword: &quot;you are a sinner.&quot; &quot;Christ died to save sinners.&quot; own sword. Hide yourself in this knowledge - this for the ungodly. If you stand in that truth, the to drive away will go away by themselves, because by plaguing you with them. If you hate these into your thinking by the Devil. In that case, he them, they are no more yours than the cursing means to drive you to despair by such thoughts The poor diseased woman couldn't come to Jesus and you're in much the same situation as the press in on you. Still, she put forth her finger and she was healed. Do the same. Jesus died for blasphemy. Based on this truth, I'm sure He won't evil thoughts. Cast yourself on Him, thoughts save. He can quiet those horrible whisperings in their true light so they no longer worry you and after a time give you perfect peace. That form of inability which lies in a supposed because we aren't strangers to the cry: Then all would easy be; My help must come from thee. for years because they say they have no do is give up all their own power and rest It is a very curious thing, this whole matter help by trying to believe. Believing doesn't about something that happened today, I wouldn't believed in the truthfulness of the man who told accept what he said. If I didn't think him but there would be no trying in the matter. Now, Christ Jesus, I must either believe Him at once, to which is the right path in this case. The to believe in Jesus when we hear this truth. Don't aim at having great faith, but be satisfied this one truth: For the Christ, when we were laid down His life for us while we as yet didn't Him. He died for us, not as believers but believers and saints, but when He died for us If you hold to the truth that Christ died for save you and you can go in peace. If you trust even though you can't believe all things, or you are still saved. It isn't great faith but not in the faith, but in the Christ in whom faith bring salvation (Matthew 17:20). It isn't the is to be considered. A person can surely believe to be true, you, my friend, can believe in Him. by the power of the Holy Spirit, the cause of faith springs up spontaneously in your heart. No of that sacred hill brings health to trembling While I view Thee, Breathless, on the cursed tree, Thou didst suffer thus for me. my lack of strength rests in the fact can't go to heaven and carry my sin with me.&quot; must be divorced from your sin, or you can't be a Sabbath, a question flashed into the mind of the and go to hell, or will you quit your sins and go standstill. It's a question we all have to answer, You must quit sin or quit hope. What's your reply? but I am not able to perform that which and I have no strength.&quot; Even if you have no for when we were yet weak, in his time [Christ] this even when other things seem to contradict God has said it, and it's a fact. Therefore, because your only hope lies in God's and you will soon find the power to slay your Devil) will hold you as his bond slave forever. sinfulness on my own. I tried and failed. through the belief that Christ died for me, I I received a conquering truth by which I the cross can be used to slay sin in the same swords and mowed down their enemies with every for it overcomes all evil. If Christ died for me, then I can't live in sin any longer but must redeemed me (Galatians 3:13-14). I can't flirt I must be holy for His sake, because how can I See what a marvelous help this offers those who in his time [Christ] died for the ungodly ones It is difficult for our darkened, prejudiced, and (Ephesians 4:18). At times, while I've been gospel so clearly that it couldn't be more plain. have failed to understand what was meant by Look usually say that they didn't know the gospel till years. The gospel is unknown, not from lack revelation. The Holy Spirit is ready to give this given, the sum total of the truth is revealed Another common regret I hear is, &quot;My weakness is I don't seem to keep hold to that viewpoint. companion and my good feelings disappear. My terrible things that I don't know how to answer I understand adapting to new situations like this. At the same time, if such a person is really The Holy Spirit can cast out the evil spirit You must not remain in this vacillating state, little regard for yourself. Stand up straight and be like a toad under a harrow, afraid for your you capable of independent opinion or action? to go to hell to please them is more than I would terms with our fellow man, it's not worth it to with this may say, &quot;I know that, but still, even can't stand firm.&quot; Well, again I'd offer the same died for the ungodly. If Peter were here, he I was such a poor weak creature that the maid that I didn't know the Lord&quot; (Mark 14:66-72). fled. Firmly take hold of this truth - that still without strength. This is your way out of &quot;Christ died for me,&quot; and you'll soon be ready to and offered full, true, and satisfactory payment fact, you will be forced to feel that you Full conviction that this is true will embolden in the early days of Christianity, when this vibrant and fresh in the church. People weren't to suffer and even presented themselves by confessing the Christ. I don't say that but it proves my point, that a sense of the love can do to us. Why shouldn't it produce the same you with a brave resolve to show yourself on the May the Holy Spirit help us to come by faith in Chapter 10 How can we obtain increased faith? This including the apostles (Luke 17:5). People want of nonsense on this subject, so let's be Common sense is needed in religion as much as &quot;What am I to do in order to believe?&quot; certain simple act replied that the best way discussing methods when the action is simple. The Spirit has made you open, you will believe as soon because it is true. The gospel command is clear. thou shalt be saved (Acts 16:31). It is pointless the order is plain. So let it be obeyed. it before God in prayer (Psalm 46:10). Tell the Him by His Holy Spirit to solve the question. If to contact the author and ask what he means by satisfy me. How much more will the divine satisfy the heart of the true seeker? The Lord is if it isn't so. Retreat immediately to your prayer truth. What I don't know, You teach me.&quot; it's possible that God the Holy Spirit will earnestly hear what you are commanded to believe. so often. Don't you find that the case in everyday don't you eventually come to believe it? implausible statements in this way. Therefore, I this method of frequent hearing of the what is to be believed. It is written, faith hear often. If I sincerely and attentively hear believing that which I hear, through the blessed Only be sure that you hear the gospel, and don't things designed to make you stagger or stumble. of others. The Samaritans believed because of what Many of our beliefs arise out of the testimony of though I have never seen it. I believe because even though I've never died, because a great I have a conviction that I will die too. The In the same way, listen to those who tell you how their character changed. If you look into has been saved. If you've lived as a thief, you'll the fountain of Christ's blood. If you've lived who have fallen in that way are now cleansed and a little among God's people and you'll discover the same way at times, and they will be pleased listen to one account after another of those the divine Spirit will lead you to believe. by the missionary that water sometimes becomes declared that he believed a great many things the that. When he came to England, it came to pass he wouldn't venture onto it. He knew it was a deep risk it. He couldn't be coaxed to walk out onto stepped out onto the frozen surface. Seeing others and trusted he could do the same. So, as you see joy and peace, you'll be gently led to believe. helping us to faith. You either have to believe in in your sin. There's no hope for you but in Him. authority by which you are commanded to believe The authority isn't mine, or you might as well the authority of God Himself. He tells you and you must not refuse to obey your Maker. heard the gospel but was troubled with the fear received a note from his good boss which said, foreman appeared at his boss's door and the boss want, John, troubling me at this time? Work &quot;Sir,&quot; he said, &quot;I received a card from &quot;Do you mean to say that just because you received house and call on me after business hours?&quot; the foreman. &quot;It seems to me that, since &quot;Come in, John,&quot; said his boss. &quot;I have another stepped inside and he sat down and read all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I looked at him and said, &quot;Do you think after such coming to Him?&quot; The poor foreman saw it instantly because he finally understood that he had good you. You have good authority for coming to Christ, If that doesn't produce faith in you, think the Lord Jesus Christ suffered in the place of This is the most blessed fact people have ever the most comforting, the most divine truth ever about it much and to search out the grace and Paul's epistles, and see if the message isn't such If that doesn't do it for you, then think about what He did, where He is, and what He is. distrust the ever-truthful Jesus. He's done it should be easy for us to rely on Him. Why this like crowning Him with thorns and be trusted? The soldiers made Him a martyr, this is far worse. Don't ask, &quot;How can I If none of these things brings you to the My last word of advice is to submit yourself to why you don't believe your God. Prejudice or pride of God take away your opposition toward Him and throw down your defenses, yield your will, and its hands in hopelessness and cries, &quot;Lord, I The reason you can't believe is because you still have your own will and own way. Christ said, another? (John 5:44). A proud self creates will agreeably believe in your Savior. I pray effectually within you, and at this very moment Chapter 11 Except a person be born again . . . he cannot our Lord Jesus seems like a flame blocking the way gate of paradise (Genesis 3:24). Such people have they can do in their own effort. The new birth is it's the furthest thing from my mind to deny a false sense of comfort. I freely admit the be worked out by the sinner's own efforts. by persuading you to reject or forget what is But isn't it remarkable that the very chapter in also contains the most explicit statement as to John's gospel and don't just dwell on its earlier Jesus answered and said unto him, Except a person be born again from above, he fourteenth and fifteenth verses go on to say, And even so must the Son of man be lifted up, that have eternal life. Then verse 18 repeats He that believes on him is not condemned, already because he has not believed in It is clear that these two statements must agree, recorded in the same inspired chapter. Why would statement assures us of the necessity of salvation assures us that the Lord will save us upon our that the Lord will give to those who believe all In fact, the Lord produces the new birth in all surest evidence that they are born again. ourselves. If it was in our own power, what part to believe, and it's the Lord's part to and we aren't to do the regenerating work for Him. and it's for the Lord to work the new birth in as to die on the cross for us can and will give A saving change of heart is the work of the Holy or forget it. The work of the Holy Spirit is by its results. Mysteries about our natural and that's even more the case with the sacred The wind blows where it desires, and thou hearest comes or where it goes; so is every one that is we do know: the mysterious work of the Holy Spirit to whom that same Spirit bears witness. sow seed in a field and he didn't do it, &quot;It would be useless to sow unless God caused be justified in ignoring the plowing because the No one is hindered in the ordinary activities of the house, they labor in vain that build it, but who believe in Jesus will find that the Holy his believing is the proof that the God works in providence - preparing for the people should sit still and doing nothing. Without they couldn't move, and yet they go on their way Him from day to day - Him in whose hand their same in grace. We repent and believe, but neither. We forsake sin and trust in Jesus, and you both to will and to do of his good pleasure there is any real difficulty in the matter. words are simple enough in actual experience. the sinner believes and that his faith functions can lead people to confuse themselves about No one would refuse to enter a lifeboat because he Nor would a starving man refuse to eat until If you won't believe until you can understand saved. And if you allow self-invented forgiveness through your Lord and Savior, deserved. Don't commit spiritual suicide through Chapter 12 I have continually spoken to you concerning Christ but it is wise to remember that our Lord has aren't asked to trust in a dead Jesus, but in One for our justification. You can go to Jesus as to a but a person continually present who will intentionally to carry on the work for which for sinners at the right hand of the Father, who come to God by Him. Come and experience this This living Jesus is also raised to renowned like a humble man before his foes, or He is exalted far above all principality name that is named (Ephesians 1:21). The Father and He exercises this important attribute in and the other apostles testified concerning The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, has exalted him with his right hand as to Israel and forgiveness of sins. (Acts 5:30-31) breathe hope into every believer's heart. Jesus one. He is the crowned and enthroned Redeemer of vested in Him. The Father has made Him Mediator to Son, so that He can make alive whom He will. He (Revelation 3:7). The soul which is bound by the His Word in a moment. He stretches out the power good for us that just like sin lives, the flesh also good that whatever power these can have to All His exaltation and ability are on our account. to be a Prince and Savior so He can give all of all who come under His rule. Jesus holds for a sinner's salvation and nothing He won't His position as Prince with His Saviorship other. He establishes His exaltation, which is it were the flower and crown of His glory. Could seeking sinners who are looking toward Christ? there was room for Him to be exalted. By that the Father's will and was rewarded by being behalf of His people. Raise your eyes to these (Psalm 121:1). Contemplate the high glories of for people that a Man is now on the throne of of all is the Savior of sinners? We have a friend will use all His influence for those who entrust Isaac Watts, sings it well in the hymn &quot;He Ever He ever lives to intercede Give Him, my soul, No doubt the Father's grace. your case to those once-pierced hands, which royal power and honor. No case ever failed Chapter 13 It is clear from the verses we've already forgiveness of sins. In Acts 5:31 we read that to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness sacred hand once nailed to the cross but now are riveted together by the eternal purpose of we continue in sin that grace may abound? to sin live any longer therein? (Romans 6:1-2). think about this a little, you'll see it is so. sinner. This would settle him in his evil ways Lord were to say, &quot;You love sin and live in but, all the same, I forgive you,&quot; this would foundations of social order would be eliminated tell you what innumerable harm would certainly forgiveness and could pass by the sin while As you would expect, if we believe in the won't repent of it, we can't be forgiven but According to the infinite goodness of God, we confess them and by faith accept the grace and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse so long as God lives, there can be no promise ways and refuse to acknowledge their wrongdoing. his treason while he remains in open revolt. the judge of all the earth will put away our This is how it must be for the fullness of and still lets the sinner live in it would be mercy and unsatisfactory. Which do you think is sin or deliverance from the power of sin? I won't the scales. Neither of them could come to us if a comparison has to be drawn, it seems to me to be made holy, to be made like God, two. To be forgiven is a favor beyond measure. of praise: Who forgives all thine iniquities then permitted to love sin, to rebel in iniquity, such forgiveness? Wouldn't such forgiveness turn destroy us? To be washed and still lie in the have leprosy would be the greatest mockery of out of his sepulcher if you leave him dead? Why We thank God that He who forgives our sins the stains of the past also uplifts us from from failing in the future. We must joyfully seriousness or intensity of our current sin. The is one and is indivisible and must not be parceled the living child in two (1 Kings 3:25). Those As you seek the Lord, I ask whether you would Would you be content if God forgave your sin and before? No! The born-again spirit is more afraid from it. The cry of your heart will no longer O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver Since repentance is connected with a decrease divine grace, and since it is necessary for you can be sure it will continue permanently. in the experience of all true believers. repented of sin with believing repentance there's never been a person forgiven who hasn't beneath heaven there never was, is, or will be repentance and faith in Christ at the same time. into the soul and abide together while we live. The man who is forgiven therefore repents, and the But remember, forgiveness comes first and leads Law and terrors do but harden, But a sense of blood-bought pardon When we're sure we are forgiven, then we abhor assurance and we're certain beyond a doubt that it's then that repentance reaches its greatest make any mistake about it. Repentance isn't not a temporary penance to be over as fast as faith itself. God's little children repent, and Repentance is the inseparable companion of faith. sight, the tear of repentance glitters in the eye in Jesus isn't true repentance, and it's not true Faith and repentance are vitally joined faith in the forgiving love of Christ, and we Jesus is honored to grant in proportion evil. You will never value pardon unless you deepest draught of repentance until you know it is true. The bitterness of repentance and the gracious life and produce incomparable happiness. other. If I know I repent, I know I am forgiven. that I've turned from my former sinful course? repentance are two spokes in the same wheel, been described as a heart broken because of sin a turning from sin and a returning to God. It radical sort, and it is joined with sorrow for Repentance is to leave And show that we in earnest grieve, When that is the case, we can be certain we heart to be broken because of sin and broken from we are enjoying forgiveness through the blood of with God through Jesus Christ our Lord, we know Don't think of your repentance as the cause of expect to be able to repent until you see the blot out your sin. Keep these blessed things in to each other. They are the pillars of a saving he passes between the pillars of repentance and upon your heart is displayed in all its beauty the light of full forgiveness. Repentance of sin in the fabric of real conversion. By these When we look again at the Scripture we've and repentance flow from the same source and in His glory, bestows both on the same people. repentance elsewhere. Jesus has both of them ready freely to all who will accept them from His hands. salvation. It is extremely important that all as much the gift of God as is the Savior on is actually the work of grace - like making an from the beginning to the end, is of grace me. It's not the Holy Spirit who repents. He has If He could repent, it wouldn't be suitable for sin. If we don't, we aren't saved from its power. What would He repent of? It is we who must repent mind. The will, passions, and emotions all act of repentance of sin. Behind it all is which melts the heart, produces shame and The Spirit of God enlightens us to see what The Spirit of God also turns us toward holiness and desire it. In this way, the Holy Spirit of sanctification. The Spirit of God works in (Philippians 2:13). Let us submit ourselves lead us to Jesus, who will freely give us the according to the riches of His grace. Chapter 14 For this chapter, we will return to Acts 5:31: and Saviour, to give repentance to Israel and gone up to heaven so grace can come down to us. His grace. The reason the Lord has taken a step sinners up to heaven with Him. He is exalted on ourselves if we remember a few great truths. repentance possible, available, and acceptable. but says clearly, The soul that sins, it shall die risen again and gone to the Father, what would its distresses, but never repentance with its only is an everyday obligation which deserves no selfish fear of punishment, that the kindest intervened and worked out a wealth of merit, than water spilled on the ground. Jesus is moral goodness of His intercession, repentance He gives us repentance, because He puts which otherwise it never could have occupied. God was poured out to work all necessary graces by supernaturally renewing our nature and taking 36:26). Don't sit there straining to muster an unwilling nature but from free and sovereign breast in an attempt to call up feelings which Calvary and see how Jesus died. Look up to the The Holy Spirit has come purposely to overshadow even as He once brought forth order out of chaos. dwell with me. Make me tender and humble of of it.&quot; He will hear your cry and answer you. He not only gave us repentance by sending forth works of nature and of providence to attain repentance, whether they crow like Peter's rooster (Acts 16:26). From the right hand of God, our makes them work together for the salvation of His trials and joys, so He can produce a Be thankful for God's timely preparation of or sad, because by all this Jesus works the The Lord's mercy often rides to the door of our uses the whole range of our experiences to wean us exalted to the throne of heaven and earth in order He can subdue hard hearts and bring them More to the point, He is at work right by His inspired Word, by those of us who speak the sincere hearts. He can send a word to you which Moses and cause streams of repentance to flow He can bring heartbreaking text to your mind which soften your heart, and when you least expect it Be sure of this: Jesus, who has gone into splendor and majesty of God, has abundant He grants forgiveness. Even now, He is waiting Take notice of how much comfort this repentance unlikely people in the world. Scripture: God and Saviour, to give repentance to Israel and the days when the apostles spoke like this, grossly against light and love, by daring to say, 27:25). Yet Jesus is raised to a position to If you've been brought up in the brightest of there is still hope. If you have sinned and against the love of Jesus, there is still hard-hearted and unbelieving as Israel of old, since Jesus is exalted and clothed with boundless sinned the worst, the Lord Jesus is still able to happy to have such a full gospel to proclaim, The hearts of the children of Israel had to think it impossible to convert a Jew. we must admit that the children of Israel have the Savior over the centuries. Rightly did and ye do not believe (John 10:25). He came unto Yet our Lord Jesus is exalted on behalf of Israel many Gentiles have a similarly stubborn heart, yet in such a heart our Lord can still you may join your voice with that of William was once a stout-hearted unbeliever, once his The proudest heart that ever beat The wildest will that ever rose, Is quelled, my God! by Thee. My heart be ever Thine; I hail thee, Christ, my God, my Lord, The Lord can give repentance to the and ravens into doves. Let's look to Him so this contemplating the death of Christ is one of the repent. Don't sit down and try to pump up feelings You can't force your soul into the gracious state who understands it and pray, &quot;Lord, cleanse it. The more you try to produce repentant emotions But if you think - with faith - of Jesus dying on the Lord's shedding His heart's blood out sweat - the cross and the passion. As you do, and with that look He will do for you what He did who died for you can, by His gracious Spirit, on your behalf and can draw your soul to follow I want to leave this one thought with you. Don't in your own natural heart to find repentance. Look you need. Never seek elsewhere for any part of the Chapter 15 A dark fear haunts the minds of many coming to end. I've heard one seeking salvation what if I'm drawn back into the penalty of hell they've died away. My goodness has been like the promised much, and then vanished.&quot; of the fact that some people who have been afraid have failed because they had a temporary faith, out trusting Jesus to a degree, but still looked in living a godly life. Because they didn't consequence, they turned back before long. we will fail. Even though we rest in Jesus try to place trust in self for anything. link. If Jesus is our hope for everything, because in that one thing we'll come to nothing. the perseverance of the saints has prevented What hindered them? What stopped them from for that running and so they stopped short. the mortar with which you build, or you'll won't hold together. If you look to Christ at the complete Christ's work in you. He is the Alpha the Omega (end) also. If you begin in the Spirit, Begin like you mean to go on and on in the same Pray that God the Holy Spirit will make it very persevere until the day of our Lord's appearing. when he wrote to the Corinthians: who unimpeachable unto the end, in the day of by whom ye were called into the fellowship of his This language silently admits a great need by the Lord makes a provision, we can be sure there the covenant of grace. Golden shields hung but there's no such thing in the armory of Between now and the completion of all things, of the covenant of grace will be used. confirmation, continuance, final perseverance, necessity of the most advanced believers, as who were considered knowledgeable thinkers, on your behalf for the grace of God which is It is such people who most assuredly feel they hold out, and succeed as conquerors in the end. grace and wouldn't feel the need for more you feel the daily demands of the spiritual the living man hungers and thirsts. He rejoices faint along the way. The believer's personal from the great source of all each day, because if This is true of the most gifted believers - in all word and in all knowledge (1 Corinthians their gifts and attainments would turn out to be and angels but didn't receive fresh grace, where until we became leaders in the church - if we were we couldn't live a single day without the our covenant Head. How could we hope to hold on unless the Lord held on to us? Scripture: He it until the day of Jesus Christ (Philippians This great necessity arises to a great extent that they won't persevere in grace, because they character, some people are unstable. Some are unpredictable and hot-tempered. Like butterflies, all the beauties of the garden and settle on none to do any good, not even in their job or in their ten, twenty, thirty, forty, perhaps fifty years much for them. As a result, we see people joining the thirty-two points and quarter-points of the Such people have double the need to pray that only steadfast but also unmovable. Otherwise work of the Lord (1 Corinthians 15:58). temptation to fickleness, once we are born again single day, you will find enough to make you holiness, as I trust you do, you must set a high For most of us, before the breakfast dishes enough foolishness to be ashamed of ourselves. a hermit, temptation would still follow us, we can't escape from the pull of sin. Within us watchful and humble before God. If He doesn't and fall spiritually, not because we are overcome be our strength, because we are weakness itself. with a long life. When we begin our Christian we mount up with wings like eagles. As we grow on our best and truest days that we walk without but it is more useful and better sustained. I pray with us when it comes to the energy of the Spirit He who has walked on the road to heaven a promised that his shoes would be iron and brass has discovered Hills of Difficulty and Valleys of and, worse still, a Vanity Fair - and all be Delectable Mountains (and, thank God, there the inside of which pilgrims have too those who hold out to the end in the way of &quot;O world of wonders, I can say no less.&quot;7 The colorless diamonds of mercy threaded on the we will tell angels, principalities, and which were spent on us and enjoyed by us on the brink of death. Our spiritual life has a stone suspended in the air. It will amaze blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. kept for a time, and I believe we are (John 6:39). anxiety, but there's much more. We have to howling wilderness to many of God's people. Some but others have a serious fight of it. often hear the voice of holy song fill our from their knees in the morning before they are are aggravated with filthy conversation all without being assaulted with foul language? can do with this world is to get through it as we live in an enemy's country. A robber lurks with a drawn sword in our hand, or at least our side because we must struggle for every or you will be rudely shaken out of your spiritual birth to the end, or where will we be? supernatural in its continuance, and supernatural to end. There's still a great need for the need you feel now, and I'm glad you feel it. own preservation now. He alone is able to keep Chapter 16 I want you to notice the security Paul confidently also confirm that ye shall remain unimpeachable (1 Corinthians 1:8). This kind of confirmation souls are right and proposes to confirm them in the ways of sin and error. Think of a confirmed liar. It would be a deplorable thing for a man Spiritual confirmation can only be enjoyed by God. It is the work of the Holy Spirit. He it. He who kindles love in us preserves it know by His first teaching, the good Spirit, with greater clearness and certainty. become habits, and holy feelings are validated practice confirm our beliefs and our resolutions, soft showers and the rough winds. Both our failures are sanctified to the very same end. persevering in the good way through its growing cling more closely to the consoling truth. The the believer becomes more solid and substantial. a distinct work of conversion by the Spirit. The life. By His inward working, He delivers us from us to be rooted and grounded in Him. It is a part us up into Christ Jesus and causing us to abide in and you won't be disappointed. As you place a tree planted by rivers of waters, so preserved A confirmed Christian is a strength to the church. weak. Wouldn't you like to be such a Christian? God who aren't carried away by every wind of (Ephesians 4:14). They are a great support to trouble. If you are just beginning your life in like them, but lay that fear aside, because the While you're just a &quot;babe&quot; in Christ now, the church. Hope for this as a gift of grace works or as the product of your own efforts. people as being confirmed unto the end. them personally to the end of their lives, or he expected the whole church of God in every place the Lord Jesus returned as the Bridegroom to bride - the church. All who are in Christ will Didn't Jesus Himself say, because I live, ye I give unto them eternal life; and they shall out of my hand (John 10:28). He who has until the day of Jesus Christ (Philippians 1:6). reformation. The life implanted at the new birth which lives and abides forever (1 Peter 1:23). temporary, but their fulfilment involves the endless glory. Scripture: The righteous shall because we are kept by the power of God, through own merit or strength, but as a gift of free and in Jesus Christ (Jude 1). Jesus will lose none of body will die spiritually. No gem of His treasure jewels. The salvation which is received by faith because our Lord Jesus has already obtained that means it can't come to an end. that the Corinthian saints would be confirmed blamelessness is a precious part of our being being kept safe. It is dreadful when you see into another because they haven't believed in Even the lives of some professing Christians are but they are seldom on their feet. This isn't with God. By faith he can reach toward holiness that. The Lord is able not only to save us We don't need to yield to temptation. Isn't over you (Romans 6:14)? The Lord is able to and He will do it if we will trust Him to because by His grace we can keep them unspotted for without holiness no one will see the Lord believers the very thing he wants us to seek after and unreproveable in his sight (Colossians God grant that in that last great day so no one in the whole universe can dare to the Lord. We have failures and infirmities to which would prove us to be outside of Christ. We deceit, hatred, immorality, and delight in Despite our failings, the Holy Spirit can work like Daniel, we will provide no occasion for of our faith. Multitudes of godly men and so thoroughly consistent, that no one could speak the Lord will be able to say what He said Hast thou considered my slave Job, that a perfect and an upright man, one that fears This is what you must look for at the Lord's continue to follow the Lamb wherever He goes and May we never turn aside into corrupt ways reproachfully of God or the Holy Spirit. For that is begotten of God keeps himself, and the May the same thing be written concerning us. the Lord can give you an irreproachable character. the Lord can totally deliver you from the power virtue. He cannot only make you moral, but and follow after all that is godly. Don't doubt bit behind the purest believer. Believe this and Oh, what a joy it will be to be found blameless we join in that charming hymn8 and sing: For who ought to my charge shall lay? From sin's tremendous curse and shame? bold courage, when heaven and earth flee from be the portion of everyone who looks to the and who in that sanctified strength Chapter 17 We have already seen the hope which filled the Corinthian brothers to be a comfort to But why was it that he believed that the and established - to the end? will notice he gives his reasons. Here they are: fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord. Unfortunately, the faithfulness of humans is He doesn't say, &quot;You have faithful ministers you will be safe.&quot; No. If we are to be kept God is faithful. If we are found faithful, it will person. The whole burden of our salvation must matter hinges on this glorious attribute of God. spider's web, and weak as water. We can place spiritual achievements, yet he [God] remains in His love with . . . no variableness neither to His purpose. He doesn't begin a work and is faithful to His relationships. As a Father, He won't deny His people. As the Creator, He faithful to His promises and will never allow one to His covenant, which He has made with us in sacrifice. He is faithful to His Son, and will not is faithful to His people to whom He has promised This faithfulness of God is the foundation and True believers will press on in holiness, because and so believers continue in being blessed. they continue to keep His commandments. This is it is free favor and infinite mercy which usher sound melodiously through the whole day of grace. confirmed and found blameless in the end are exceedingly abundant. They lie first in what God it isn't possible for Him to run back. Paul fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ (1 Corinthians reversed, because the gifts and calling of God are turns from the powerful call of His grace. justified; and to whom he justified, these the unchanging rule of God's divine procedure. A but few are chosen (Matthew 22:14), but what we're kind of call, which promises special love and are called. With the called one in this case, For I have taken thee from the ends of the earth said unto thee Thou shalt be my slave; I have We see strong reasons for our preservation and Lord has called us into the fellowship of His Son It means we are called into partnership with Jesus you have come into fellowship with the Lord in all things. From now on, you are one The Lord Jesus carried your sins in His He was made a curse for you and at the same you're justified in Him. You are Christ's and his descendants, Jesus stands for all who so is Jesus one with all united to Him by faith - More than this, believers are members of the body living, lasting union. God has called us into and by this very fact, He has given us the token If we were to be considered apart from Christ, we away to eternal destruction. But when we are one and endowed with His immortal life. Our destiny destroyed, it isn't possible for us to perish. God - this partnership to which you have been you are firmly in a partnership with Him, you can never torment you, since you are a joint and earth. You can never fail, because even utterly bankrupt, and unable to pay even a small is still inconceivably, inexhaustibly rich. the unhappiness of the times, the changes of the The Lord has called you into the fellowship of put you into the place of unfailing protection. Jesus and therefore secure. Do you see the to the end - until the day you meet Him. If irrevocable act of God, then you, the believing the believer never will drown. Jesus has taken His that He must first be beaten, overcome, and ones can be injured. His name is at the head we are secure against all dread of failure. confidence into the unknown future, because we of the world ask, Who is she that comes up from of Solomon 8:5), we will joyfully confess that we more and more. Our faithful God is an ever-flowing of God is a river full of joy. Knowing these rather cry with the apostle, Who shall separate Conclusion me step by step as you've read the pages of this little value unless the truths which pass before applied. It's like a person who sees plenty because they personally don't eat any of it. If of this book, it's all in vain that you and I you've actually accepted Christ Jesus, my Lord. you spiritually and eternally. I've done my best privilege. I was thinking of you when I wrote this in prayer for everyone who would read it. It is will be blessed, and it pains me if I haven't is the case, I must ask, why would you refuse? brought to you, at least be fair and admit that door. When the two of us meet before the great idly using the attention you gave me while reading for your eternal good. I now take you by the my brotherly grasp? Tears fill my eyes as I look your soul a thought? Will you choose to perish don't do this. Weigh these serious matters and Jesus, His love, His blood, His salvation. Why with you not to turn away from your Redeemer.&quot; you've been led to trust the Lord Jesus then keep this doctrine and this way of living. in free grace alone. There's no other life favor of God. To receive all this as a free pride and from self-accusing despair. It makes in this way, it creates a feeling in the soul anything that can possibly come of mindless fear. best know nothing of that radiant commitment, come with salvation freely given according to the is no match when compared to the joyous spirit smallest feeling of faith than in all the works of devotees who plan to climb to heaven and God who is a spirit delights in it for that or chapel, and participating in ceremonies and sight of God. But a glance from the eye of true The Father seeks such to worship him (John 4:23). and the rest will follow in due course. that are not. Your own heart won't prosper unless life of your soul lies in faith. Its health lies Jesus has never been under the influence of His love. Begin at home. Next, visit your neighbors. the street on which you live. Scatter the Word of Dear reader, meet me in heaven. Don't choose from that place of misery. Why do you wish to open before you? Don't refuse the free pardon, who trust Him. Don't hesitate or delay. You action. Believe in Jesus now with an immediate and come to your Lord today, for it may be now would be horrible if it were to be never. About the Author Spurgeon (1834-1892) was a British Baptist and quickly became famous. He is still known had more than 10,000 people present to hear him His sermons were printed in newspapers, translated