Right up and down the coast of Australia long days and nights to bring in sustainably been buzzing since well before dawn. This boat of tuna to offload. [Righto mate]. So we end up with 4 days fishing. So I'd consider that a today. A second crew is also returning from a They have even more on board. Yeah 17 tonnes pretty This fleet is part of a company called Four Seas. Annually they bring in about 1,200 tonnes of tuna, but none of it will end up identifiably Australian in supermarkets here. There is no Australian tuna Australia as a manufacturing country, I think we is set up now um manufacturing not only for you offshore. Imported tuna products when we catch problem. In fact frustration over this situation from Cairns in Far North Queensland to try my family is is a fishing family my parents early '90s late ' 80s. So we've been involved Coast for over 30 years. We wanted to consume that Australian fishermen deserve a spot on the born. Rowan and Kate's food manufacturing business caught in Australia. While Rowan is no longer out been in the industry my whole life um yeah I've now for 20 years. For the last 7 years through preserved tuna using albacore, a white fleshed fish and sometimes has no market at all. We wanted to salts good oils and put it in a glass jar make cost of high production costs and manufacturing only found a place in the market but a very loyal annually through their jars and are stocked in a large retail reach um these are in more of your in our fish shop, in other fish shops. But there's it's a whole different kettle of fish to what's on their sights on another endeavour. About a year ago lot of albacore available and they weren't getting we had to create a tinned product that was more fishers. Producing an affordable all -Australian tinned tuna in 2024 is no small undertaking. While once we had the country increasing operating costs and ago. This went offshore some 25 years jobs. It wasn't only the end of all those disappeared too and it also completely changed the is mainly a chilled market. So we go to sea we catch International markets with our premium tuna and that because of the operating costs. That's because commercially in Australia as compared to elsewhere half half to five times what the US pays for a what a a deckhand will get paid on the far seas their cost based to catch all this tuna on us. And it's not just the wages on board Australian unsustainable. It's also the considered and extensive no nets are involved, it's just one continuous gear to really target the yellowfin and less of um You know the amount of regulation that's on those have electronic log books they must fill in. Every cameras on the back deck. That records all the interactions. The tuna is also handled extremely the premium price. Sometimes there's a lot on our biggest but it was about 200 kilos and it after the export freight we ended up with for one fish so you can see it really is a market which is highly saturated and where the to highest quality. Well you can buy a small can price supermarkets. Cat food on the other hand are quite prepared to pay that for their pets. The inside. Ridiculously low it may be but it is 72% of Australians consume tuna and they eat 336 then then we will be successful. But to be little differently to how they'd first hoped. Their in Thailand. The decision to take canning offshore was also quite a journey to settle on which Global Marine Stewardship Council has endorsed healthy wild fish populations. We did a trip over to go see the facility before we made any kind represented our values as well. They've decided umbrella either, but rather a brand new little done this out of the belief that we want to be what's made in Thailand but we still want to link able to explain why we've had to do that has been to be able to clearly see exactly what it is achievable in the tuna aisle. The tinned tuna market the consumer. There's no brand um attachment in cheapest. It would be nice to be able to change longline fishery is worth an estimated $55 to $60 to support Australian fishers and the businesses plate, there's a lot in between that's for sure. canned in Thailand succeed? Kate and Rowan risk because we're playing with large quantities to give it a go we are sending containers of now they have no choice but to take their are determined not to give up on their goal to caught and canned here in Australia. Kate says it's onshore processing is to look at getting a larger Of course that all depends on whether the products. We've secured near just over 60 tonnes will be stocked in the stores that already supermarkets will take the tinned product as shelf on the tuna aisle. They are talking to us more hurdles to overcome, but that's what risk find a way around them. In the seafood industry here it's it's across all of Australia's agri-producers and we need to protect our food bowl. We need support to get this innovation through know we got to look to our our government to say feed our nation for the future rather than being happen. Rowan and Kate aren't waiting for this young fishing family and the fishers they stake. I think they're proud that they can see know where it's going and what it's doing and they can say I caught it you know I think of. They've got a great story to tell and their