The story of the Kingdom Hearts Chi saga is The events that took place across these games that would chronologically follow in the rest tremendous influence on future titles in the It's fundamentally the story of the Master events that would irreversibly alter the lives of innocent children, and the entire world This video is a heavily condensed explanation I have been covering this story since 2018, version told as each update was released, if you'd like to see all the cutscenes without to watch them all in what I consider the ideal Without any further adieu, let's get started This is the entire story of the Kingdom Hearts Cross. Light and darkness are fundamentally at odds Much like the physical concepts that these and does exist in literally every corner of It is only the introduction of light that deepening the darkness that is cast in the Long before Sora, Riku and Kairi were ever the Master of Masters lived among other beings But they were in conflict with beings of darkness, The combatants on both sides were mortal, physical bodies. But the conflict fundamentally changed when move that if successful would see them become They shed their physical bodies and reduced a physical body to destroy they could never beings of darkness was ultimately pointless again. Worse still, these beings of darknesses could light, possessing and taking control of their as they were powerless to stop themselves The moment that Darknesses began to hide within the beginning of what would come to be known But what the Dark forces didn't realise they had inadvertently put themselves at risk time they would completely lose their ability to rationalise, they would be reduced to beings But they could stave off that fate by inhabiting was their possession of people a means of necessity for preventing their willpower from emotions became the perfect targets for posession. Of all the beings of Darkness that shed their shadows that retained their individual, independent Others were able to 'derive' forms of of those that belonged to the light, becoming As the young boy grew into adulthood he would him in humiliating deaths that saw his loved vessels of the 13 darknesses. It seemed inevitable that the Darkness would extinguish the light, after all they were state. But over the years the boy grew into a man, One that would require immense and unforgivable or at the very least a ceasefire in this war... He began his plan in a world known as Daybreak whose people seemed oblivious to the greater At this time the individual worlds were all as the realm of light, and the man himself weapon known, as a keyblade. The man, now known as the Master of Masters filled with light and possessing a strong Step one of the plan was for the Masters 6th keyblade embedded with the Masters own eye. The Master had formed a temporal link with to see through that eye into any moment in Luxu was then instructed to take that keyblade into the world, staying out of sight and not all, eventually passing that keyblade onto apprentice to a future apprentice and so on, distance, until the keyblade fell into the This would take countless lifetimes, and to cast away his original body and sequester many times as each vessel reached the end It would take countless lifetimes, but Luxu as it made its way naturally through time, there would ever be. With the ability to peer into any moment in the Master of Masters wrote down the event's Prophecies. He gave a copy of this book to each of the as the Foretellers, along with a new name, that must be kept a secret from the rest of The five foretellers each read their copies that awaited on the final page; the world light expire. The five foretellers, bastions of light and to prevent this tragedy from occurring, but from forming alliances or going against their They were simply to create their own Unions Town to those Unions as Keyblade Wielders, collecting the physical light from the world unions. The Master also planted the idea that a traitor the five was secretly working to ensure the in or trust no one but themselves. The foretellers would be manipulated into to lead the children that pledged their loyalty of mutually assured destruction that would And with his plan in place the Master of Masters a trace, not to be seen again for hundreds This would cause the foretellers to feel genuine hopelessness and sadness; an entire cocktail All they could do was stand helplessly by against the Master's explicit orders, lest of the 5. Their secret role, only accelerating the journey Union struggled to gain more Light than the would gain enough Light and use it to do something source of all Light in the world. But the Master desired for exactly this to to withstand the destructive emotional turmoil, unknowingly make them the perfect bait. Of those 13 darknesses we spoke of, 5 of them invading the Foretellers hearts, but once find themselves unable to take control of unwavering hearts that still shone with light, it. Well, I should say 7. The Master's plan was also for himself and within their hearts, and in conjunction with deadly darknesses would be sealed away within Until the keyblade war that is. As fate intended, the foretellers would lead to be known as the keyblade graveyard and The events played out seemingly exactly as is unclear, it is assumed that at least Ira, trapped within their hearts, as did thousands 5 of the 13 Darknesses housed within the foretellers with the one still trapped in the Master, 6 Darknesses to be dealt with. But at such tremendous cost; the lives of itself were the price the Master paid just As said, the keyblade wielders had spent their the world, leaving it in my mind hollowed of the destructive force of the keyblade war, of independent pieces and scattering them, from each other, and surrounded by darkness These separated pieces would one day be known barriers that prevented exit and kept them seen only by their once connected neighbours The Master orchestrated such merciless destruction, of the Masters most loyal and devoted followers their allegiance to the foretellers themselves, In fact the sole survivor of the keyblade Well our character, the playable character To rewind briefly we started our journey by and spent our days collecting Lux with our in the Disney worlds. We didn't really question our reality or from a different Union; Ephemer. He challenged the story he had been told, to were nothing but Illusions, the heartless collecting was the light of the world itself, We quickly formed a friendship with Ephemer Town tower, after seeing the mysterious location it. It took us all day to find the secret entrance, so as not to arouse suspicion among our union However we never got the chance, despite waiting he never arrived. A girl called Strelitzia noticed just how to introduce herself, but never quite worked A few months later a girl named Skuld approached Ephemer had contacted her in her dreams and War was almost upon us and as such, the world We rushed to the Daybreak Town tower, fighting corrupted by Darkness ironically in their that had also been infested with Darkness to us that yes the world was about to end called the Dandelions. As I mentioned earlier, each of the foretellers from sharing with the others and Master Ava's after the Keyblade War. She would gather keyblade wielders from all Darkness, those brimming with light, and train fighting in the keyblade war. These chosen wielders would be known as the be no memories of any strife between the Foretellers, emotions for the Darkness to take root in. However in this new world there would be 5 when the Master of Masters gave Ava her role wielders and make them take over as leaders new world, after the foretellers had perished. Ephemer was one of these new Union Leaders, character at the fountain square was because world. The Master had written the names of Ephemer, a boy named Brain on a list for Ava and told them as the new Union Leaders in this new One of these Union Leaders was circled in their own copy of the book of prophecies. The "alternate world" was actually a data that the Keyblade wielders had been visiting. This data backup was made to be a near perfect with a Data backup of all the people who lived The belief was that the Dandelions would be in a place that the destruction of the keyblade However, the remaining Darknesses could... Just as the Master had selected 5 apprentices trap a darkness within their hearts and perish for 5 new Union Leaders to lead the Dandelions they too would unwillingly house one of the And the one final Darkness would be trapped to destruction as well. Those Five would not be felled in this time, a new generation of Keyblade wielders would This was the plan as the Master of Masters He would directly sacrifice 12 people, including and the lives of thousands of children. All to defeat the darkness. His young student Luxu was disgusted by the that the lives of all these people were not The boy was bursting with rage, but seemed he had a "safety plan" for all those he of the various people in Daybreak Town. The young Master walked away silently with as the Master wished his apprentice well. Whatever Luxu's heart told him was right, actions he took, Luxu was the key to the future. Because Luxu would inevitably defy the Masters This is the problem with predestination paradoxes. The Master had looked into the future and presumably accurate information about what He had forbidden Luxu from reading it, but to have a peek, and he had also told Luxu But once you know what the future holds, you Like I said, the Master said that his plan the Darkness. But things deviated from that plan. WIth mere days before the keyblade war Strelitzia our character, trying desperately to save when one of the Darknesses possessed a lonely to murder Strelitzia and take her green rulebook, unknowingly as an imposter. Master Ava had also slightly disobeyed the the book of Prophecies to, instead handing guide him on how best to use it and hoping in the book of prophecies, perhaps the ultimate And Luxu allowed Ava to confront her, revealing traitor and the Masters intentions, shaking from her intended fate, we don't really Other than that the first part of the plan it is implied that Ira, Aced, Invi, Gula and The Dandelions did as they were trained to they had entered a data version of the world erased by their Chirithy Partners. Our character had chosen not to escape with Dark Chirithy that claimed to belong to us, battlefield and withstood attack after attack The battle nearly killed us, and as we lay intervention of Skuld and Ephemer, who returned the war in and rescued us, sending us to the also losing our memories of the war in the And as instructed, the Union Leaders assembled War had concluded, formally meeting each other anything was wrong, that an imposter was among in the alternate Daybreak Town, not realising entering they were now in a data world, and But once in that Data world, it gradually For a start, Strelitzia's absence was noted He sought out her former party member Elrena revealed that Strelitzia was last seen searching War. Ephemer and Lauriam paid us a visit, and although never actually spoken to Strelitzia we agreed We finally got to spend some time with Ephemer short, as we soon noticed some strange glitchy go investigate. We returned to the tower with Ephemer as the the glitches and correctly guessed that we These glitches seemed to be occurring because by a strange other world that didn't belong Ephemer and our character teamed up to check a hub world, connecting to several other data aware that they lived in data worlds. We chased some Darklings who seemed to be this hub world and it's connected worlds Data Daybreak town. We met a villain of this world, and though glitches and the darkness we eventually realised this world had good guys and bad guys but or Light. We got off course when a CyBug absorbed a and our presence seemed to stabilise the glitchy Eventually we defeated King Candy, and tracked Hybrids. Just like Vanelope was a princess, but decided might also have another version of ourselves, the Darkness, and with our leads exhausted Over this time the intelligent quickly put to be a Union Leader and that one of the five that there were intangible beings of Darkness He gathered Ephemer, Skuld and Ventus, with that his name wasn't on the list of Union The poor boy initially refuted the idea, he approached him, walked with him to the Daybreak But by searching deep within his repressed terrible had happened, his body had been used into believing Master Ava had chosen him, the poor boy passed out from the pain of the Lauriam wasn't present, because again he and he stumbled across Maleficent in the Tower's Okay, so recall that in Kingdom Hearts one, and had her heart unlocked by the Ansem possessed At this moment her heart left her body, and told her long ago that without the burden a prior version of herself. She attempted to travel back about 10 years fell for the trap that the Master of Masters the age of Fairy tales and to the Data version Once here she got beat up again by our character out exactly as they had the first time around, still managed to defeat her. She exclaimed her frustrations aloud, and that she was trapped in a Data World far further to. The Darkness escorted her to the Data Daybreak well the Data Tower Basement. Here the Darkness informed her that this was the Data World, these 7 arks. Using an ark would transport it's occupant the Basement of the Real Daybreak Town tower. As Maleficent was about to enter one of the by Lauriam who confronted the intruder, but the 7 data arks in the process. Maleficent and this Darkness took the right Town basement to the Real Daybreak Town basement, take the real world version of this pod and As this real world version of the ark accelerated its occupants body, leaving nothing but a and travel through time to it's intended by following a waypoint. To be completely reformed from that heart You need a medium to reform your body with, holds memories of you, to repopulate your Darkness has apparently read snippets of the exists in it shortly after her defeat in Kingdom that has played Kingdom Hearts two will remember after her defeat, acting as the Medium, and by the three good fairies, allowing her to Hearts Two. So Darkness convinced Maleficent to enter, real world. So that's one gone from the real world, in the data world. The Darkness remained in the real world, but was approached by Luxu... As Lauriam lay defeated on the ground he dreamed recalling that he teased her about this silent of a crush on. This moment of bliss was quickly interrupted contacted by some version of his sister in jolt him out of his slumber. His assailant had vanished and the room was to do but return to the other Union Leaders. Poor Ven awoke from his slumber, fully remembering to his Union Leader pals. Skuld, Ephemer and Brain discussed what had They think Ven was telling the truth, but acting much closer than they realise. They wonder if the Darkness may come for the for Streltiza. At the same time the wounded Lauriam finally at the idea that the rest of the Union Leaders him, hiding the knowledge that she had been He lashed out at his allies, playing exactly negative emotions towards his fellow Union Ven entered and confessed his responsibility himself, but as Ephemer held off his enraged that was hiding within his body finally revealed Brain began to question the strange being several things; such as that their main goal The darknesses existed to reach and infect countless currently uninfected worlds that Data Daybreak Town was about to be destroyed Darknesses, by the other Darkness sending an irreversible process to end this world. This Darkness took control of Ven because a being that would harbour Darkness in the that he wanted power and they simply tried down and usurping her position as a Union Lauriam took the bait and attacked, but the joining Ventus in unconsciousness. Brain ascertained that indeed there were multiple Leaders was the only one present right this attack it, without success. Eventually the darkness confessed that Ventus and Lauriam joined his allies against the This was the exact moment that our character in hand, making the fight a 5 versus 1, a But again to no avail, the formless darkness able to reconstitute itself. Ventus awoke and realised that this darkness darkness from within as it exited his body, The poor boy was the target the Darklings his status as a pure light and marched confidently it within himself once more, and give his that could be permanently destroyed. He told Lauriam that everything was going seemingly successful in his attempt to draw a deep sleep. Lauriam watched over his sleeping ally, apologising that the Darkness still slept within Ven. The awful train of thought was interrupted apparition that prayed for her brother to instead of stoking them. Ephemer interrupted and let Lauriam know that news that might help him. A couple of days ago Strelitzia's figure Town walking with one of the Masters. It seems that Luxu has entered the Data Daybreak of Strelitzia, and may have extracted what But the Dandelions didn't have time to chat, to an end. Brain scooped up the Book of Prophecies, Lauriam downstairs into the basement. And now we can return back to Luxu and another Luxu carried a white cloak under his arms to see him, from it's hasty reading of the all the masters would be gone by this point. Luxu activated the terminal and sent this using another of the seven real world pods, to the surprise of Darkness. The true Dandelion slumped under his arms unable to walk on it's own, and unlike the only recently there was no distinctive tufts the hood. Strelitzia's real body faded from this world true Dandelion is in some way connected to memories stored formlessly in this white robe. It doesn't have to be Strelitzia though, soon. Luxu is again choosing to interpret the Master's the letter which seems to what the Master on. This makes him a traitor in the strictest nature that the Master seems to believe is ultimately prevailing over it. Despite Darknesses taunts, Luxu affirms his tell what the mysterious man is thinking because Luxu questions this Darkness, trying to ascertain the keyblade war, believing there should be It's interesting that Luxu knows things though, if everything was going as intended now but that is clearly not the case. One is currently in front of him in the real the one the Union Leaders were just in combat This darkness is again taken off guard by that yes, the four Luxu is concerned about the one with Luxu now is the only thing standing It's pointless to try and destroy this formless another plan, as he draws the Masters Blade The implications of what happens next are to see, instead we return to the Data version arrived. Time is running out for this world, only 5 decision. After some discussion they come to the understanding all the Dandelions, not just the union leaders, world. Lauriam, Elrena and the unconscious Ven will Player will stay on the Data side and take As Lauriam, Elrena and the unconscious Ven with the Master Defender and the copy of the that they were always meant for Ephemer, and temporarily, until they see each other again. Brain tells Ephemer "May your heart be your four friends present and a key. Brain also enters a pod and together the four leaving one unused for now on this side. As soon as they arrive in the real world Brain and the player across as well. But seeing as time is limited, he insists the real pods and escape into the future first, Brain can't be sure when or where the pods keep his goal of finding his sister in mind, The two Union Leaders share a touching farewell Ven in their pods, but as Brain seals them only call out his allies name before he is Brain turns and sees what Lauriam was trying room. Luxu approaches Brain and essentially asks with Brain confirming that one was struck trapped in the Data world along with the player Luxu wonders if Brain will be taking one of he will be sending the two currently in this one that still exists there he will bring and send them into the future, before dedicating world and trying to free the remaining Dandelions. Luxu approaches the young wielder, almost Once the lifeboats depart that's it, there after it falls into the slumber of Darkness. It's a trap designed for exactly this purpose, there will be no way to unlock it. He continues, letting Brain know that these anyone using one of them needs to things at Someone with memories of them, and a vessel slightly different from how the Master phrases Brain didn't know the exact details of how but no matter what he is determined to succeed, Luxu made his to within arms reach of Brain, before lamenting that he only had one lifetime We don't see what happens next, but again There is a reason we don't see exactly what likely because the exact occurrence will be titles. While this conversation between Luxu and Brain Skuld and our character have been busy in No sooner did their companions leave when darknesses, the ones whose whereabouts Luxu They approached Ephemer, Skuld and Player Five Dandelions to defeat just one darkness, with only three Dandelions would be pointlessly The darknesses assumed that the Dandelions dying world, and only asked that the Dandelions before they left, seeking to infect those They required a keyblade to unlock those doors, simply possess the player character and do There was no way they'd agree to aid the wielders took up arms against their hopelessly Knowing their odds, Ephemer whispered under an ark as soon as the fighting started and to keep the darkness busy. Our character looked around and realised the with a small smile realised what had to come We revealed the horrible news, Ventus had we battled earlier within his heart, it had Now in control of our body we commanded the Ephemer and Skuld with our full power, and Yet, with our tremendous power we were able to keel over in pain and exhaustion. We stood over Skuld raising our keyblade high taunts at Ephemer, hoping to stoke his rage, darknesses thrived on, and reminded him that worlds none of this would have happened. As we motioned to swing our keyblade down out in desperation and shot a beam of light us that sucked both our body and the four it shut after we had vanished through the All he can do is desperately apologise to no choice but to trap his possessed dear friend But now he and Skuld are alone, an eerie silence clashing of keyblades and screams of regret. With nothing left he can do in the Data World, Skuld in his arms. At the same moment, two pods are sent back world, meaning there are now enough for Ephemer, unfortunately go unused. Ephemer places Skuld inside a pod and enters wielders make their escape into the real world. The two pods materialise in the real world, the room they just left, of course unaware From Ephemer and Skulds point of view, 5 pods have no reason to assume that anyone other Brain were their passengers. They couldn't possibly know that one of and of course could not possibly know what and Brain for that matter, but again unfortunately, All we know is that after Brain and Luxu's and Skuld, this will be an important detail The pair slowly walk to the roof and bear the real Daybreak Town. The chaos of the keyblade war caused tremendous departure of the lifeboats has heralded the If it hasn't happened already, the realm into thousands of independent chunks that from the future of the series. As Ephemer and Skuld hop into the pods once the future, a teary eyed Skuld can at least end of all things. Ephemer tries to convince her to stay hopeful, of is our character and the brief time we And now the poor wielder who just wanted to into the Daybreak Town tower, who gave up to stay with Ephemer, is now trapped, all Tears roll down his eyes, as the pod doors seems to come crumbling down on top of them. Speaking of the player, they awoke in the and Game Central station after being flung The other four darknesses congratulated their into these data worlds, worlds that were ripe Our breathing was extremely laboured, in a the Candy Kingdom, a terribly corrupted darkling, Ephemer, after which Ephemer pierced our heart They advised the darkness that lingered within along with us. But through our pain, we managed a smile. "I didn't think tricking you guys would Are all of you this gullible?" We stood up, and used our keyblade to seal had sent us through, and the Darknesses realised We were never possessed, no, we had realised and fooled not only the gathered darknesses we were under that first darknesses control. As said, Ephemer locked the way in, and we were now effectively trapped in this corridor possibly searching for an escape. But our body could not take much more punishment. We feel to the ground and apologised to our us. We picked it up in our arms and held it close white light. The entire data world, as with the real daybreak of masters had orchestrated, and as Master town fell to darkness it should enter a state This was prominently featured previously in various worlds lost their hearts to the darkness a state of sleep and the worlds themselves After the destruction of Ansem seeker of Darkness of these worlds were restored to the realm state of sleep. Sora and Riku travelled into Sleeping Realm to unlock seven sleeping keyholes, freeing them to be awoken back in the real world. So to cut to the chase, that is what is about is falling to darkness, and it along with be falling to sleep. But instead of losing their hearts to the Chirities stepped in to protect them, shielding bodies and taking on the appearance of the Dream Drop Distance. We have been told since Dream Drop Distance now we are seeing that in an extremely literal We can't forget that the Chirithies are to hold onto the wielders gathered light, they were the Masters backup plan to keep As for our character... we ask our Chirithy that we have a choice. So many of our Dandelion friends are still by sleep, and we could join them, or, if we life, to be reborn and melt into a new heart. We get a brief flash of this life, and see is our new mother as she tearfully hands us unfamiliar city. That stranger takes us to a world we've islands that keeps us entirely separated from It seems the stranger dedicates the rest of as we grow from an infant into an adolescent, and they reach the end of their life. Soon after that we will find a way to escape land, but it seems like we will make a wonderful We peacefully close our eyes, knowing that Chirithy in our arms. It wishes us a goodnight, as our body disappears, So we chose to reborn, and saw some happy But of course, regular fans of the series reborn hundreds of years in the future as we saw did not include the more tragic moments So as not to result in speculation I will but one thing we do know for relatively certain, that Xehanorts future self is able to approach the first step down his Dark Road. After the storm has passed a pod washes up The camera is initially zoomed in on a figure surely Ephemer, but it quickly zooms out to Maleficent's heart safefully arrives in in Yen Sids Tower as we previously saw in Maleficent's Raven took the evil queens Sora had departed on his Second great world cloak the three good fairies Flora, Fauna memories necessary for Maleficent to reform We also see Lauriam, Elrena and Ventus have Lauriam appears to be in the Dwarf Woodlands a cliffside among a lightning storm in the among the keyblade graveyard, and is discovered through the sacred land at that moment. We of course can assume this is the much older from Birth By Sleep. "So there I stood, with vast knowledge in in the other. The next step was clear; I needed a new vessel. And that was when I met Ventus and made him We were destined to meet, and I could sense too benign for his own good. I came to the conclusion he was too frail for a second purpose I had in mind. I would remove the darkness from his heart Then I would have my heart of pure light, I believe all three of these young people a few years before the events of Birth By Recall that Lauriam used his goal of finding which for some reason brought him to this Elrena likely used the same goal, or Lauriam even know he would be time travelling, but the book of prophecies and knew that Ven was the wheel and let him arrive at this point Hell, maybe Ven subconsciously wanted to be our character within Xehanort, leading him he had first met his new friends, at the exact The medium to reform the bodies of these three himself in, the lightning striking the Enchanted blowing in the Keyblade Graveyard, possibly day be associated with. Unfortunately, no one existed in the current to reform themselves completely, it seems little else. I'd argue that Luxu should still exist at these three, but certainly not enough to fully All three will now take their place in the Ven will soon be trained by Master Xehanort, of his latent darkness, and perhaps the amnesiac feels with all his heart that he must not Lauriam and Elrena might spend the next ten Dominion respectively, I can't imagine the worlds given that the pair clearly have no After the events of Birth by Sleep, once Ansem apprentices form an organisation dedicated will begin seeking out additional members We do not know the circumstances of Demyx we do know that it will fall upon Xigbar to personally recruit Lauriam, now Marluxia as well. As we know Luxu has remained loyal to the to steal vessels of countless people until Xigbar. Luxu did express care and concern for the I wouldn't be surprised if he has been keeping having an excuse to keep them at a very close After we see the shots of Ventus in the Keyblade to be the exact same location, just back those A hooded figure dragging the Black Box and their hand makes their way across the keyblade They pause, take a moment to turn, hold the "May my heart be my guiding key." The figure opens his hood and reveals his I refuse to allow myself to speculate here give you some quick thoughts. Luxu may have taken Brains body as his original that would essentially break continuity with To me it makes more sense if he chose Brain both the masters keyblade and the black box to watch over the blade from a distance until intending to recreate the keyblade war. This seems to fit perfectly in line with the he handed the blade to a Union Leader before only Union Leader left in this time. It would also possibly explain why Luxu is of Kingdom Hearts Three, but is able to find because he simply doesn't have it. There is however one big problem with this, Brain has awoken in a strange new city that as the city that the baby Xehanort will be He is immediately greeted by a man dressed that obscures his face that introduces himself The man knows that Brain was destined to arrive hands Brain back his hat, which seems likely at this point in time. Sigurd radios the news of Brains arrival back to follow him there. Brain has some questions first, asking if destruction have also arrived at this time, this time. As they walk through town, Brain spots a familiar this towns square. Sigurd explains that this was the original founded this world, Scala ad Caelum. Brain of course knows who it is, after all ... for as long as I want to, but here are the Skuld's pod time travelled into the future, while after the events of Birth By Sleep, in the Radiant Garden Castle's dungeon and barely remembers her past, with scant recollections your heart be your guiding key. Her captivity is noticed by Isa and Lea shortly who is likely Luxu, and during the events of concern to Ansem the Seeker of Darkness, research. Ephemer's pod did not travel through time. He emerged shortly after the destruction of and the Master Defender keyblade, began creating Of course, this Scala ad Caelum looks extremely from both Dark Road and Kingdom Hearts Three. Recall that Ephemer had promised to return the pair saw each other, and once this Brain potentially several generations after the be returned to him. I have a feeling that at this time Ephemer left instructions for the guardians of this This is certainly not confirmed, but Kingdom a family, and that the young Eraqus will be to Brain, he may disappear from the world would be an older man by the time of his grandsons birth, I can't help but wonder if this Brain from his willing but regretful mother(?) and I'm certainly not so sure about that though, his life to freeing the trapped Dandelions could take him a lifetime to achieve and possibly Of correct though, the huge mystery in my mind places and times at once. The last line uttered by Luxu to Brain before a shame this lifetime is the only one you've My Brain immediately wonders, what if the was a way Brain could lead two lives at once. Again, this will get its own video but my Luxu retrieved the Data Backup of Brain from the future, while making the other his apprentice. Let's put aside the speculation for now to the beginning, the Master of Masters plan claims have attacked the people of the light. 5 were to perish in the keyblade war in the The Master of Masters and Luxu were to also travel into the future as Luxu made his way patiently as he awaited the return of his 5 should have been trapped within the Union through the time travel arks, meaning that generation of keyblade wielders capable of be there to defeat them. This seems to be the implication of the Kingdom that Eraqus describes sees 7 black pieces the first piece entering the board being the game. And one final darkness would be trapped within Maybe the Master intended to keep it trapped expunging a fundamental force of the universe, last after the remaining 12 had been taken both past and future could complete the feat However as stated, things deviated wildly I think we can only say with any level of it's possible Ava did as well but given not so sure. The 5 Darknesses that were supposed to possess the path, the one perhaps intended to possess instead and murdering poor Strelitzia. Based on the events of Kingdom Hearts three's to roam free for a time as Vanitas, now that Darkness still lingers deep within Ven's The other four darknesses possibly intended themselves trapped within an external corridor world itself. And I think the implication is that Master Darkness within their hearts as well, well as planned but what about the one inside Luxu. Lest we forget... uhhh... he's already perished, Maybe even twice now! I think he has faked his death in Kingdom must have been defeated in Kingdom Hearts I suppose it doesn't count as properly dying a Darkness within his heart and is also poised So that's four or 5 struck down already, that hopefully we can find a way to not destroy, That makes 12 that we have a pretty good idea Now for the 13th and Final Darkness, the one where it seems they were about to have some Again, so as not to speculate I'll cut to have been destroyed without a form, so unless destroyed it, I would assume it's still I see there being two interesting ideas here, bear the burden of a second darkness in his personality from that point onwards, or he spread and corrupt people throughout the realm why darkness exists in peoples hearts in future apprentices experiments. So things have clearly deviated from the Masters of Masters we're talking about, this could He knows his adversary Darkness is shrewd complicated plan with a healthy amount of them. After all, the original ending of the book darkness prevailed, which is why in my mind at the book and why Darkness is attempting as closely as possible, if they follow what should end up completely extinguishing the Which in a way, did happen. The original ending to the conflict between was that darkness prevailed, just as the book It was only through a breaking of the taboos and alter the events that were destined to over the darkness. Master Xehanort infused thirteen physical defeated, allowing the creation of the keyblade. I had wondered if Xehanorts entire purpose the thirteen darknesses were not destroyed way into this one ultimate heart, our reincarnated able to channel an ever increasing amount by it, who would ultimately triumph over ever themselves in. Would such a heart be capable of handling 'gentle' prodding would they attempt to lamb was destroyed, would darkness be defeated I'm less confident in that idea now, but was taken from his place of birth and why send him down his dark path, one final sacrifice The Darkness cannot comprehend what the Master what the Darkness truly is after. The two have discussed as much, and on one that he was sending not just himself and the Crowns" that one would assume will help He also revealed to the Darkness something while peering through time. A world he can't even imagine. He is surely referring to the fictional worlds secret of Kingdom Hearts Three, Remind and For some reason the Master of Masters shows light nor darkness, perhaps as a location the Master wants to ensure that it remains himself. It has been hinted that the foretellers, or have disappeared into this fictional world, also showed an interest into this place, and of Masters himself have all entered within Three. I should also of course mention that Lauriam from the ancient past after being defeated spent the last year searching for any clues her, hopefully the next instalment in the as well. Speaking of the next installment, Dark Road September, 2021. Hopefully we will learn more about this mysterious has become involved with at that time, and about the fate of that 13th Darkness and the well. And of course, the most important question who knows the story of the ancient keyblade children that rebuilt the lost world and ensures Is Kairi's Grandmother Ava or Vor? And with that, I think I'll leave you here I've definitely rushed through some details, more thoroughly in my earlier explanation need to know about the story of Kingdom Hearts as well as what you need to know before you Rest assured though, I will absolutely be so please ask any questions you still have to answer them., just as a start i really the two Brains and the Two Scalas. I really want to thankyou for watching, this releasing my first main video shortly before feel no one really understood or cared about to now seeing the entire fanbase hungrily towards the finale. It's a very special piece of a very special allowing me to be a tiny part of your experience And with that, I'll leave you with one final May your heart, be your guiding key.