The connection between philosophy always been very close. Plato had written &quot;Let no one enter here who is ignorant of the basic sciences into the categories and Some of the greatest philosophers have been new branches of mathematics. Descartes is an In fact, most of the great philosophers, not all the sciences. And this tendency is Bertrand Russell was trained Wittgenstein was trained first as an engineer. The reason for this persisting And that is that the basic urge, which has has been the urge to deepen our understanding And this is also what For most of the past, too, people thought that as well as being utterly precise and clear, that plenty of philosophers examining mathematics to whether this was something that could be applied Ditto with the sciences, which were also and certain kind of knowledge. What was it about science that people asked themselves. And could its methods, These investigations into the concepts, and involved in mathematics and in science have come and the philosophy of science. And it's with these Chiefly with the philosophy of science, part who is expert in both -- Professor Professor Putnam, I'd like to start our discussion number of our viewers occupy anyway. And it's there's been a spectacular decline in religious among educated people. And for millions, the view based on religion has been increasingly at least, purporting to be derived from science, and the hold that it has on people's minds So I think I'd like to start this down that scientific world outlook which and which will be underlying a lot of Let me dodge the question a little bit by talking many scientists thought 100 Think of doing a crossword puzzle. You might But towards the end everything fits, and That's the way the progress of In 1900, a famous mathematician, David Hilbert, congress of mathematicians, which are still very one problem which we would not call a list. I think it's problem 3, which was to put the Just a small task. And that was for That's right. The ideas is, Newton, put in all the parts of the story, and now it was the logic, as it were. I think, in a conversation a treasure chest view and I like that picture. up. It's an accumulation, and you don't have to you make a little mistake, but basically like building a pyramid. You put down the ground It just goes up. That's part of it. The view The other part of it is the idea that the special we're impressed by is success. This culture values But there is the idea that science owes And that comes probably from history of science, after Bacon, was influenced by Bacon. And the idea something called inductive logic. And this idea and that the sciences can be characterized by explicitly and consciously as it were who's learning cooking might be using it, So I think that these two things -- the idea of by the use of a special method, the inductive Yes, and if I were going to put the same thing, this. For 200 or 300 years, educated Western man consisting of matter in motion. And that was all of the stars into ourselves, and our bodies, And science was finding out more and more about by a method which you just And the idea was that, if we went on long crossword puzzle metaphor -- we'd find out eventually, by scientific methods Now, that has been abandoned by scientists, yet to the non-scientists. There are still large that that's how scientists think. do they? I mean, this is starting to break down. I think it's started to break down. I think If I can drag in a bit of history of philosophy, philosophy which I think has begun to happen now Before Kant, no philosopher really doubted reality. I mean, there are different words, some a mirror theory of knowledge. Well, Kant said the thinking mind. Sure, it isn't made up by fiction. It isn't something we make up. But it depends both on what there is, on the way things mind. I think that today scientists have come to of the 20th century, the idea that there's to what we call truth, that theories aren't I'd like to ask you to unpack that a little find idea a little puzzling. How can it be, some not true can depend not only on what the facts Well, let me use an analogy with vision. We tend out there. But the more one studies vision, either what's called vision involves an enormous amount not the same color, in terms of wavelengths, at we think of as our simplest transaction with the In other words we bring a whole number directly conscious of, usually, unless That's right. I think the world must've looked up and thought of the stars as up and us at the space, I think we have a different experience And what you're saying is that see the world and interpret ideas within which we organize our observations by us. So that the world as conceived by science partly contributed by categories and ways of That's right. And an example of that but it's not basically falsified -- is there's something, an electron, half a particle -- that would be meaningless -- be described two ways. You can either think of it as a particle. And both descriptions They're alternative ways of describing the That's right. Philosophies have started That's a term used in philosophy of science. But now, for a couple of hundred years after Newton had produced was objective fact, that he of the world and the workings of the universe. of us. That Newton and other scientists had read looking at it, and so on. And these statements, Now, there came, didn't there, a period in the 19th century, when people began to realize that wasn't just a body of objective fact which had science was corrigible, scientific theories profound questions. I mean, if science isn't just are, what is it? And if we don't get it from Well, I don't want to say we don't get Obviously, part of this Kantian image is that something out there. But that also there's a thought that Newtonian science was indubitable. in The step beyond Kant is the idea that not only is alternatives, and that the concepts we impose on have to change them. That there's an interaction Now, what was it that made people begin to as objective truth was wrong, that science I think it's that the older science expected it to be wrong, not in It's not that we find out that, say, the sun million miles from the earth. That's not going to about things like that. But that's like making a Wholesale skepticism about whether numerical as unjustified as wholesale But where the newer theories don't agree with the mathematical expressions in Newton's theory. It's over the big picture. We've replaced the time by the picture of a four dimensional space by a picture of a world which obeys a swung back to the picture of the word as having It's not even that things once So it means, really, that a whole conception of of science as a body of knowledge which is being that whole conception of science has in dispensed as a set of theories which are themselves by more accurate theories, by richer, more we now have, like those of Einstein and in the course of time, by other, better theories That's exactly right. In fact scientists that the main theories of the 20th century give way to some other theory which will Now, this raises a very fundamental question, when we say that this or that scientific theory is true, what, in these newly understood There's still two views that have been since Kant. its adherents. But I think the view that's make a total separation between what's true That the way in which -- what I call mind-dependence of truth comes in is the is in part a function of what our And that depends on our interests, which, That's right. I'd like you to say a little more about I think, is puzzling to the layman. I science or philosophy are apt to think and a true statement is a statement I'd like to talk a little about some of the I think the biggest difficulty in science one scientific theory, you often find different came in with the special theory of relativity, where the two things happen at the same different observers. One could say &quot;Boy Scout the other could say, &quot;No, Boy Scout B fired a distance is sufficiently large, so that a light exceeding the speed of light, then it may be both Of course, this leads to profound some modern scientific theories. a scientific theory can be useful, and quite understands what it means. And this is the nobody is really sure what quantum That's right. And, again, I want to say, one we don't want to give up our standards to say -- quantum mechanics works, and the very fundamentally right about it. And with respect part, that may be that we have the wrong standards intuitions. But in part, there are real paradoxes to be done to really get a satisfactory resolution Yes, I think somebody hearing our discussion to find himself thinking -- well, if all this is scientific theories are breaking down, if science permanent, firm, objective knowledge, if a subjective anyway, in the sense that by the observed by the scientists, how is it, build bridges, fly airplanes, make rockets soft fuzzy changing partly subjective body in some very basic way, in spite of That's true, but I think the contrast between altogether right. I'm not saying that scientific I'm saying we're in the difficult position that difference between good and bad reasoning, but we we use interest-loaded terms. We wouldn't if we didn't have a whole network of social tribe which didn't have policemen might say fact that the notion of a policeman is shaped objectively true that there's a policeman precisely because of this corrigibility, in The difference between science and previous ways that scientists are willing to test their ideas in a way, that was known at the beginning, somewhat forgotten. And we've had to be reminded questions to nature and be willing to In some respects, the traditional opposition have crossed places, haven't they? I mean, certain knowledge about the world, that made us in his own image, gave us immortal souls very fundamental propositions which they hold who believes that everything is fallible, that get to the end of the mystery of, and so on Maybe. You say it maybe? I'm not sure. You're not sure. Well, let's not pursue that. But one point I do want to take up with now science is seen in this entirely by virtually all scientists, doesn't it mean that isn't what it was always thought of as being. indefinite, changing, and so on, it's no longer a and kind of human knowledge, from other sorts of I think that's both true and culturally the old picture of science does is that that scientists are gradually accumulating as non-knowledge, something to which even I think that the so-called fact-value dichotomy a discussion, on politics for example, without &quot;is that a fact or a value judgment?&quot; As though for example, or a factory that Farah And do you think that it is a Oh yes, I do. I do too. But then, if this is so, if we're abandoning distinctions of the past, what's the or the notion or the term &quot;science&quot; anyway? something differentiable from everything else. I don't think it does. I think that if you're that makes a lot of sense if you still have this make something science is that it uses it and uses And that what makes something non-science as in learning how to cook -- you're not or perhaps doesn't use it at all, as metaphysics But when you both say that there's a sharp line And to say that the method which is something that we can state exactly -- and very much a failure, still. programmed on a computer the way deductive And I think the development of deductive logic computer have really brought very dramatically with respect to proof in the mathematical and proof in what used to be called the inductive but you really have to use intuition, One of the two categories that you described the of was that there was a particular scientific on the basis of these observed instances, you you then verified by experiment, Now that that has been abandoned, is which is thought of as being scientific method? I don't think they should be. People talk of I think that, even in physics where you do get textbooks, there's a great deal that doesn't and in the culture I don't really believe there's Any university will tell you in its social sciences and that sociology is as I bet if you ask anyone in the physics department And why will he say no? That's interesting. I think the real reason is not that the method. They probably use it more conscientiously, poor things, than the physicists do. I think So in other words, science has become almost That's right. Well now, I think you've given a very, very good of what science was has broken down in our century perhaps much more difficult to get hold of. But Can we now come, against, this background doing. You are a philosopher of science. Well, part of what we do which I won't fairly technical investigation We look at quantum mechanics very closely, both to and to see what contributions we can make as We look at relativity theory very closely. and so on. This is the part of philosophy of But much philosophy of sciences And I think that the best way to we've been talking about. That is, each divides philosophers of science. There correspondence view of truth and try to the objections can be overcome, you can And there are others who try to sketch There are philosophers who still think there stated and who work on inductive logic. And by because we won't make progress to trying to And that there are others who view culturally, more historically, and then people position, that there's something to the notion but that it's more or less a continuum. mechanical rule, an algorithm, that you So that I'd say each of these issues -- the nature whether there's any necessary truth in science, and can't be subject to And who are you, plural, doing all this work but what I have in mind is this. I've myself philosophers together for discussions of precisely have usually failed and failed to the same reason, back to their laboratories and get on with doing it seems to me, don't, in fact, take very much talking about. I think it's conspicuous that the the really block-busting, the path-breaking in this century that you've been talking about-- Max Born, Schrodinger, de Broglie, these people questions that's you've raised. But these were thousands of scientists, who follow on behind them they don't seem to care so who is listening to Well, I'd say, first of all, I for the philosophically-interested I don't view philosophy of science as giving more philosophers are ill-advised to think current contemporary advice on how to live On the other hand, I do think it's scientists tend And perhaps this isn't a bad time lag, this culture lag has some value in It's annoying to a philosopher to encounter a scientist who's both sure that and then who produces verbatim ideas which you can Is there a direct parallel here between the economist Keynes' famous remark that were indifferent to airy-fairy slaves of the economic theorists of That's exactly true. I suppose another parallel one account that ordinary language-users give would be extremely unsophisticated simply because about it. That too would probably apply to of what they were doing when That's right. That is, it's a mistake practices an activity one can give a theory of it. One criticism that's often been made about talk of science in this general way, what is one science namely physics. Now, it's true, isn't it, that the science probably taken place in the last 20 years, philosophers of science open, of being too physics-based in their view of I think I would defend us against that on theories in biology are of Darwin's theory of evolution, Crick/Watson pose big methodological problems of a I mean, I'm not sure whether Well, I mean, you mentioned evolution is a concept which originated in one of over a comparatively short period of time, has So the way almost everybody think is influenced origins of man but about institutions, or evolution has become a dimension of Western man's That's right and perhaps there has not been enough me as interesting is that the possibility of kind -- explanations in terms of function, what you're made have come under more attention, Now, this does raise something when you talk of computer Science And that is the of computers, and philosophy. Not just science I mean, computers were originally constructed the human mind. But as they became more things from them about the human mind. So then, tell us about ourselves seems to actually That's right, and today this is one are, close contact with scientists. That is, the computer science, philosophy of language, today, another -- not because someone tells them to. to meet together -- again, not because someone The interesting thing about the computer one might have thought that the rise of the vulgar materialism. That is, &quot;so, after all, we us can be explained in terms of physics and the computer on psychology on philosophy of mind See, the thing about the computer is very rarely have to think about There's a distinction that people draw between instructions, their rules, the way they do things their hardware. You talk about computers at the to explain what they do, in a way that would be if There is a kind of emergence here, although it's not that they're violating the laws of that higher-level facts about organization the fact that it's following this program explains built. I only need to know it can be built If you apply this to the mind, it that I associate with Aristotle. It's the not spirits which only temporarily in the mind in the body is a relation of Aristotle said, &quot;if you use the word soul in &quot;you don't-- you'd say the soul of &quot;the soul of the eye is seeing.&quot; And he You're talking now of the alternative view that this gives us puts me in mind, all the materialist philosophers in the modern official state philosophy of about discussing this. Marxism claims to be scientific, Is there a significant Marxist I don't think there's a significant Marxist were all wrong either. I think Engles was one century. He got a number of things wrong. But And Anti-Duhring, his big book on philosophy strange ideas, some of which he gets from Hegel, on philosophy of science, among other things. On I'd say that Engles views on philosophy of the standard philosophy of science of the time. And what about subsequent had some pretension to be Well, I think they're uneven. He says, for example, that theories are copies science just copying off the Mao is more sophisticated. Mao who was widely read in China in the 1920s. Do you think it's actually made contribution I think that it anticipated -- it people have been less ideologically divided, the Marxists were among the first people to try on practice, with the stress on corrigibility. truth. And today many mainline philosophers As it is, they play some of the role in philosophy in economics. He described Marx as one of When I was introducing this program I mentioned philosophy of mathematics. And before we close, I I suppose one can really say that the central direct parallel to the central problem how long does it fit the world? fit the world? In mathematics it's how does That's right. And it's even worse, copy view, a correspondence of view of the question- - well how do we build up this saying we have sense organs. As I mentioned there's a tremendous amount of interpretation But if you are talking about numbers and sets, and somebody says, okay, if mathematical knowledge are, and the way sets are, and the way other the question then, what sense Yes, what is a number? A deeply problematic That's right. And on the other hand, I don't it very easy either. It seems to me that And I think that philosophers should concentrate because it seems to be an area Isn't there another very important parallel throughout the history of science one of the that it was all about objects in the world and another camp which thought, no, it's contribute most of this. And as you the truth is almost certainly There is a longstanding dispute in mathematics, think that mathematical knowledge is something of the world, and we derive it from the world by mathematical thought that says-- no, no, no, which we then try to impose on reality like a That's right. The latter story's attractive doesn't seem to work either because it seems any logic we want. Almost anyone would admit And what's consistent and what isn't isn't When we try to stress conventionalist accounts, subjective accounts, we come up against the stress the objectivity of mathematics we I think we can learn a lot more than about scientific knowledge by Talking of where we're going from where interesting way in which you could end this talking about what you regard as the most and therefore, I take it, the most-likely growth subjects we've been discussing -- philosophy OK, I think that if I'm allowed to confine my we know that long-run predictions are always philosophy of mathematics to be a growth area, and physics, I think, to decline somewhat from Although I think that part of it touches actually come forward in connection with quantum our view of what the true logical laws are in quantum mechanical. I think this side a philosophy logic will be a hot discussion area. But more think of this philosophy of science, that become like these questions about computer models and these more general questions about the nature of verification, how science can be scientific method -- I think these questions One thing that worries me about this whole area in a sense, is the person our discussion has been the 25-year-old Einstein published the theory of it's true to say now that the great majority university degrees and so on, still have And it's done very little to actually Isn't there a danger that now science and new range and world of insight that it's giving isn't filtering through to the non-specialist or That is a danger, but it's one There's now, for example, a text of special which is designed for the first month of the first say, at the beginning, that they look forward to And do think that time will, Oh, I'm sure of it. Yes, well, I think you're right. Thank you very much Professor Putnam.