- [Hunter voiceover] since the world fell apart. And when it fell, it went fast. (sirens blaring) I can't believe that a cabal of liberal terrorists could by an elite mainstream media. That's just what the enemy to start a civil war. (people shouting) (glass breaking) And now, it's all gone. Not for us, though. We were prepared. We were awake. But I still can't help but and the friends I For me, the only thing that is the Word of God. But now it feels like God has let the gates and a spiritual battle (explosions booming) I know God is with me, and maybe we deserve it for (fire roaring) - Finally. (dramatic music) Got yourself a new truck? - The old one's dead. You've been waiting long? - No, it's good to see you, bro. Just talking to God. - Yeah, yeah. - [Hunter] How was the - No, nothing crazy. I mean, I took the back roads, so I steered away from - Oh, that's good. - I got your stuff, Jo's got you set up pretty good. We got some charcoal tabs, got a bunch of stuff in there. - Thank you, Hunter. Our supplies are - Yeah, look, I'm gonna How are things at the ranch? - It's not good. Hunter, we're down - Oh, man. - Had to quarantine 20 of us. - Having to imprison essentially prisoners - I gotta shoot straight Penny's one of the sick. (Hunter sighing) - I'm really sorry to hear that. - Yeah. - You know what, that scares The disease coming through. Once that happens, it - It should have been me. I was out. A family came in, One of the kids was sick. You ever think death - No. God's got a plan for us. (guns firing) (man groaning) (guns firing) (tense music) (man groaning) (gun firing) - You're a dead man, Christian! Why are you hiding? Where are you, Christian? Come out Christian, - I will not hesitate to put - You won't kill me, Christian. I'm no threat, I'm unarmed. It goes against your beliefs. - [Dagon] Murder him. - You'll kill in self-defense, but you won't kill (zip tie zipping) (rebel leader groaning) - [Dagon] I've found my pet. - No... No! No, no! - Shh... (rebel leader screaming) (dramatic acoustic guitar music) - [Robert Voiceover] is better than this? (loud grinding) - Wow. Hey. You did good. - We make a good team. - Oh, man. That mud really helped. - Yea. - Wow, this is great, guys. - Yeah. Would just be great getting our community, you know? Seems like everybody's been - Yeah, I've noticed that. This will be a good place for I like it. - Wait. (bell ringing) (loud grinding) - Jeez, Randy, - Hey. - [Jo] Thanks. - Sounds like Randy's You want to go take a look? - Yeah. - Okay, come on, Papa. - Hey, should we go? - We're not leaving post. - Okay, come on, We'll know when Mr. - We stay on post. We can check it out later. (dramatic acoustic guitar music) - Where's Jo? - Sorry. Sorry, hold on, I'm coming. Oh. Wow, you guys. Really great job, - Thank you. We just, uh, wanted for being part of Crossroads. You know, when I was kid, I just loved sitting around Talk to friends. But for me, it was mostly - Well, I think that to do just that. Oh, well, I made a little Uh, I just had a spare that I wanted to make so it's for you all. - Jo, thank you. - Despite our circumstances, Paul, if you would. - Please, everybody, Join in our celebration. In the 10th chapter &quot;Let us consider how to stir &quot;and good works. &quot;Not neglecting to meet together &quot;but encouraging one &quot;as we see the - Amen. - And like Paul prayed, I of meeting and (crowd applauding) (horn honking) - Hey, he's booking it, guys. We got 400 yards. Get the gate. Welcome back, Mr. Wilde. - [Hunter] Thank you, Frankie. How's things going around here? - Doing well. Hey, have you guys seen Jo? - She's at the new fire pit. - They got it done? You guys want to - We'll stay on post. - Good man. How are you? Hey, what happened to you? - I'll explain it to you later. Let me go get cleaned up. - Yeah, I'll go with you. - [Jo] Doesn't look like as you said it would. - No. We got jumped at the drop. - What? By who? - I think it was Last I heard, they (Hunter sighing) - Dad, what's wrong? - They killed Robert. - Oh, my God. I'm sorry. - Yeah, me too. - You know, it seems like every something goes wrong. I don't like it. - I don't either, We're gonna have to adapt. I thank God the only and I can live with that. - I can't. Dad, you're all I got. I mean, you don't have to carry the entire burden of We have some capable Me included. - A virus spread Even Penny's been infected. Oh my God, was Robert? - No, no, he wasn't infected. He had to quarantine Can you imagine how hard - Everything's falling - Preparing for it's - It's not easy, - Something evil is I feel it. - We'll get bolder. All right? - Yeah. - Let's clean your ear. (insects chirping) - Nothing. Quiet as a mouse. I'm bored. - Anyone up for Go Fish? - I'm game. - Yup, deal 'em out. (ominous music) (Dagon growling) - What'd I miss? - Nothing yet. Hey, really sorry about Robert. - Yeah, Jo filled up - Yeah. It's the world we live in. - You may need to rethink next time you go out there. - It's too dangerous. - I think our first is securing our defenses. - I agree. (sighing) You were when you got attacked, so... - I want to know what's And you're the only and you haven't We've all been kept in the dark. I want answers. I'm trying to calm People are scared. - Who's scared? Everyone was relatively - Paul, you lead them. You're their pastor. - I might be their pastor, but my faith is being - Paul, no. Why are you saying that? - Why are we still here? - Paul, this is the - No! Not like that! We should have been Raptured. - Frank, do you have... A seven? - Go Fish. (Wally laughing) - Billy, do you have a seven? - Man. - Winner, winner, All sevens. - That's skill. - There ain't no Just luck. - Fine, then I'm lucky. Now, cover me, I - All right, hurry up. I'll shuffle. (ominous whooshing) - [Dagon] Hello, Wally. (ominous music) (Randy muttering softly) - Stop, stop, stop, Stop. There is no God. (Randy growling) (Randy muttering softly) - Everything come out all right? Yo, what's wrong with you, man? - I... I gotta cut my shift short. - You ain't leaving your post Wally! Wally! - Paul, we hear but God didn't cause this. - [Hunter] Why not? - [Paul] You see? Even Hunter agrees with me. - I didn't say that. - And every last one of us wants to know why we haven't been Raptured - Look, the last thing is having a Rapture The world turned their back and we all saw it happening The sexual depravity, Hollywood filling our the media spewing lies, Is it not possible - And left us here - You think you've You haven't, 'cause that's where the and it's my job to make - [Dagon And Hunter] The - What do you mean? (knocking) - Hey, hi, sorry. Sorry to bother you all, but - No, I haven't. Guys? - (sighing) About an hour ago, he said he wasn't feeling good, and he left our trailer - Hey, let's just grab some He couldn't have gotten too far. - Well, I have walked pretty and guys, it is not like - Hey, it's okay. Let's just go find the All right? - Come on. - [Hunter] Randy? - Randy! - [Dagon] This will be - Randy! - Randy! - Randy! - [Dagon] Go check the pavilion. - What'd you say? - [Chris] What? - Didn't you just say - [Chris] No, I - That was weird. - Well, let's just go to - Yeah. (dramatic music) - Oh, my God. Oh, my God! - Randy! - No, no, no, no! - We've gotta cut him down. - Wait. How did he even get up there? - Kaci! - Kaci! There's-there's no there's, it's, there's nothing. - Then how did he do this? Hunter? You okay? - Dad? (sinister laughter) Are you okay? - What are you guys laughing at? - No one's laughing, Dad. - Is this funny to you? - Dad, no one's (Kaci crying) Dad, what's wrong? - Jo... - Wait, wait, you You knew he was in here, how? - No, no-- - Okay, find a way - How did you know? - No. (thunder crashing) - [Baal] It's beautiful. (man laughing hysterically) Oh, human suffering. (man sobbing) It brings me such gratification. Now that our new dominion - [Man] No, no! - We can unleash our full wrath. - And when they lose all hope, they will follow anyone. Even if it has - Good, Dagon. No! - Maybe that will help - Master, I've made my choice. There is one that, is stronger than the I want Hunter Wilde! He's resilient and but he is stubborn as hell. Despite this, he's susceptible. I will create enough chaos - Or he can be driven mad. - No, no! - I will, and he will be yours. Forever. (Baal growling) - You didn't hear it, did you? - No, no one did. - But it was so real. - Dad, how did you know - I didn't. I could have swore I &quot;Check the pavilion.&quot; - Okay, so you told me that What kind of enemy are - I-I don't know. I can't see a face. What scares me the most is you can't see? - Prayer? - How did Randy hang himself? - I really don't know. I don't see any way (somber music) - We commit the body of our Earth to earth, ashes to Amen. - We're all here for you, Kaci. We're not going anywhere. - Randy was happy. He loved being a part - I know. - Randy didn't kill himself. I know it. - (scoffs) You have What are you doing? - I just need to - For what? - Look, Jo, I'm just gonna and look around. - Dad, no. We just talked about and now you're - All I want to do is do a circle, and work my - What are you running from? - I'm not running away - Yes, you are. Look, everything used This is what we need, Now you're all over the place. - If we close our eyes to we're gonna wake up one day, Jo, and the enemy's gonna be - Yeah, well, how is this - They're gonna - That doesn't sound - I don't know, something, - That's an understatement. Paul freaking out about the Randy hanging himself, and let's not ignore - That's a weird (sighing) Jo, in my head. It's just chaos and confusion. - We fight against spiritual - It's not gonna - But don't be so Look, we don't wrestle but with-with powers You're not even listening to me! - I am, Jo. (Hunter sighing) I'm sorry, but I gotta - Fine. Go, do what you have to do, and I guess I'll keep an - [Paul] You're really - [Chris] Nothing. - [Paul] It's always - Paul, there's They just need to find us. - Everything I have talked has led me to think endure any wrath. - I know your heart, Paul. You'll get this figured out. - Hey, guys. He's gone. - Who? - Hunter. - Here we go again. - Paul. - Why today? We just had a suicide, And Hunter wasn't exactly - Paul, let's not go there. - I'm-I'm sure he's just Just let him deal with it. - Hey, um... I'm-I'm leaving Crossroads. - [Claire] What? - [Kaci] And I suggest - [Claire] Kaci, wait! No, you can't leave! - Claire, there is I can feel it. - [Claire] What, Kaci, wait. Just, come here! - [Man] If anybody can hear A disease has swept, Please somebody, if (dramatic music) - Whoa, Kaci! - Whoa! What's going on? - Well, wait, hold on, Wally. Kaci, please, there's - Yeah? And there's nothing in here I can't take it anymore. Living in here like this? - Look, Kaci, the only thing You won't survive a day Please don't go. - She's right, Kaci. - Come on. - Then so be it. Now if I'm gonna die, it's Not this town's. - [Claire] Kaci, listen to And I know it's been but we will get through this. - Open the gate. - Stay. (Hunter sighing) (low heavy breathing) (man groaning) Apply too much pressure, Set your hook gently. This is a little more is it not? We've managed to secure the to fulfill our agenda. Just look at the in the pursuit of wealth. - No! And yet, here you are, struggling with one on the brink of And yet, you have (Dagon exhaling loudly) - Keep it together. - Keep it together. Keep it together. (sighing) - Where to, God? For you know perfectly like a thief in the night-- When they say peace and safety, then sudden destruction - Like labor as a - Who's out there? - I am the voice in your head. Look. Look within your soul, Hunter. Search out its depths. Who controls you? - Nobody controls me. - Pride controls you. Your pride is bringing You think your but you've scorned all masters. And you serve no master. That is (laughs) - I do serve a master. - Is this before me a to his own thoughts Ah, you may think that you do, but at best, your in a foundation of sand. (breathing heavily) - Keep it together. Keep it together, Hunter. - Hey, come on, boys. - What's going on, Jo? - We're gonna talk. Okay, so we tried to - What are we trying (Jo sighing) - No one new or in the last couple of days? - Except for your gate hadn't been open. - Yeah, I haven't seen anything. - Wally? - Huh? - How about you? - I-I haven't seen - You didn't even stick You took off right Probably left a little dribble, (guys laughing) - Relax, Wally, I'm And don't ever - Hey, take it easy, guys. - You know what? I've had it with - What is your problem? If you say one more thing, - Not on your best day. Get to the medical room Chill out. Knock it off! - If you ever try to do I'll kill you! - Wally! Get off of him. Wally! No, you stay there! - [Billy] Hey man, Hey, chill out. - I gotta get out of here. - Wally, what happened? Did something happen to you? Wally, what happened? - I saw something. - What, what did you see? - When I went to I felt like someone I turned around, and I-I saw... - What, what was it? - I don't know what it I was staring at him face to And then my nose and I had never been so - Well, was it - It wasn't somebody from here. - [Frankie] I'm sorry - Yeah, me too, man. - We good, man? - Yeah. Yeah, we're good. - All right, so I need you guys Starting with the woods between Then search the immediate for 100 yards, no further. - [Billy] What are - That I don't know. But you're gonna know - [Frankie] What about you? - I've got some things but listen, guys, this is Keep rooted in the Word. I don't know what we're and you need to keep Just keep your eyes - Your Bible can't - No. - From here forward, there are in store for you. You and every other little who doesn't understand in your master's own book. - No... - Where is your God now in (man sobbing) - [Claire] Papa, we have - [Rossi] It's my favorite show. - Well, the show's over. We have to turn it off, we - Is my daughter (stifled crying) - Um, I'm your daughter. - You're my daughter? - Yeah, Papa. My name is Claire. - Yeah. - Claire. - [Claire] I brought you some - I like chocolate. - Yeah, Papa, you - [Rossi] How's Hunter doing? - You-you remember Hunter? - Hunter brought us - [Claire] Yes, yes, he did. - We need to keep him in prayer. The enemy's going to test him. Attack him. - What? What-what attacks are Papa? Papa, what attacks - That was good, can - What attacks? - Oh, my special little demon. You've managed a and yet, here you sit, alone. - Chaos and fear are a - So are panic, doubt, pride, These are but the afterthoughts Is this all you desire? - I have spent a - A millennia is - No! (man laughing hysterically) - Aside from using and dimension alteration of a three-legged dog? - All right. Show me. Anything that's more... Effective. - Targets like Hunter It creates an adrenaline not on us. The more you fling it at him, the less likely That will not be enough to I want to keep you, Dagon, but you've chosen a If you lose control it will be very - I haven't met a human I'll get him to the cage. - Good. Because this cannot and will I've authorized I've shown you the I've told you there are risks. Either you succeed and or our enemy will and you will lose the target. Or, you will simply lose. - I swore your oaths, - You haven't used the full - You'll see the full - I had better. I did not put all of this Or perhaps you'd like to until doomsday? - No. - Tell me what you see of him. - On the first (sighing) Is fatigued, wounded. In the second dimension, are in disarray. He's desperate. He's angry, he's grief-stricken. He's afraid. Too many emotions to The third dimension Is confused. He's beginning to shrivel up like a rotten piece of fruit. And the fourth dimension, - Think of that shadow as Think of what is good in him, - [Hunter] Where to, God? (tense music) - [Ella] Hello? - [Hunter] What are - I'm hungry. - Walk over here. Hold up. (low heavy breathing) Get over by the fire. Some food. (soft crunching) - Ella. - Ella, I'm Hunter. Is there anybody out there? - [Ella] My dad. - [Hunter] If your dad's - [Ella] He's dying. - What do you mean, dying? - They all are. I'm the only one that - Sick? - Everyone just Started with my grandpa, he got these bumps And my grandma, everyone's My dad tried to keep me - Ella, is there anybody - They're pretty close. (dramatic music) - Get down! Come on! Get under the car! (gun firing) - No, dad, no! Dad, no! - Ella! (gun firing) Don't make me kill you. - [Ella'a Dad] Come to me. Come to me. (gun firing) - [Hunter] Let's go. That really was your father? - Not anymore. He died on the - I'm really sorry - Can I come with you, mister? - Yeah. (dramatic music) - Can I have this? - Of course. How did you sleep? - It was the best I've - Ella, listen, I swear to I could have changed - It all had to end. Before my dad got sick, He was even saved. God's gotta take that - Yeah, I believe so. - So where are we going? - Home. Crossroads. It's a small community We'll be safe there for now. - Is your family there? - All I have left I think you'll really like her. - It'd nice to have a friend. That's the one thing I miss most is just having - I think Jo would, too. She missed out on She spent her whole taking care of the town. She's a worker. And never once did she complain. - If you had a safe Why not just stay there? - I wish I knew. I get a little antsy. Just feel like I It's like something's Ella, how did you not get sick? - I don't know. I always just kept myself clean. I sometimes wondered if - You're a lucky kid. - I wouldn't call myself lucky. I just pray that my best - Let's go. - Just over 2,000 gallons. - So what happens - Oh, we're pretty close That's the least With everything that's I'm just trying to take - It's pretty crazy how You think it's how God intended? What if Paul was right? - What, his Rapture theory? Or any of this other Look, all I know is if Jesus - [Billy] Yeah, but because we followed Hunter? - We are all here 'cause He built Crossroads. - What if we made a mistake and now we're stuck? (dramatic music) - Wally, what? - It wasn't human. - What? - The thing that I saw. The thing that killed Randy. - What are you talking about? - He's speaking the truth. He's seen the enemy that - Rossi, where-where - You all have been all the weird happenings here. Confusion has got The enemy's not afraid But it's nothing compared to - What are you talking about? Papa, you can't leave like that. Do you understand me? I couldn't find you. What's going on? - Rossi, could you what you just told us? - What did he say? Papa, tell me what you said. - He said something about - Oh, God... - What, Claire? - Yeah. He said the same thing to Something about your (horn honking) - That's him. S-should I go get the gate? - Yeah, um, I'll go with you. Claire, if we're under then we need to be prepared. And I don't know-- (Rossi speaking - What is he saying? - I-I don't know, - Papa? Papa, what are you saying? (horn honking) - It looks like he's (sighing) Dad... What you got there? - Picked up a stray. Ella, this is my daughter, Jo. - Hi, Ella. - Do me a favor, go - Yeah, sure, come on. - Hey, but we need to talk. - [Hunter] Yeah, we do. - Ah, tell me the - Doesn't matter, master. This is a different toxin. - Ah, how I comprehend. This is a delightful turn. - I thought the touch - It is a delicious recipe. Finish it, Dagon! - Yup, yup, that'll fit. Go try it on. (sighing) So where's - You know what, she I think Rossi would - If you could do that, that - [Claire] Yeah. - So how did this happen, just find a girl - Look, she's been Her whole family had and her dad's been-- - What disease? - I-I don't know. Mumps, Ebola, measles, - So you're telling me that at risk of extinction? - She doesn't have it. - How do you know, Hunter? - She's got no one, and - Look, Dad, I'm sorry but we've seen enough death. And-and now, you're all of our lives over this? - I'm the one that's I know what I'm doing! - Not anymore if Ella has Jeez, I'm gonna get Chris. - Claire, don't go near anybody. I'm putting us on quarantine - She has no symptoms. They would have shown up by now. - You don't know that! And I held her hand, Dad! Why didn't you say - She needed help, and I helped! - You know better. Mr. Guice's ranch and now we might be, - You know, I've She's fine! - Oh, have you? Well, you're not leaving - I don't need your permission. - Do not leave. Dad, do not leave! Dad! (Dagon laughing) - Oh, Hunter Wilde. Crossroads falls tonight, Ah... - Beholden to our every whim. - Now, the mortal dimension. One last time. - I told you, that - And I told you, I (Baal laughing) - You think you have not even Eridu solved? Are you really so (dramatic music) - Innovation. I'm not smarter, where others left off. - She's good. We dodged a bullet on this one. - I'm sorry. I didn't mean to Mr. Hunter saved my life. - Hey, no, Ella, this - [Ella] Where'd he go? - Oh, I don't know, He's probably just - You know, we came - No, we didn't. What he did was irresponsible, And he's got a lot that we need to deal - What Rossi said? - Yeah. - I will not release Even we do not engage - I am accustomed to I know it better - I will not throw away an You will not break I will not release you from - Very well. I will get him here as planned. (Baal grunting) - Come on, Hunter. Keep it together. Keep it together. Keep it together. (ominous whooshing) - Oh, these, it's these people. They just don't understand - Dad? Dad! - I'm on your side. Without you, Crossroads You are the one that is Does anyone appreciate No. Now, they mock you, accuse you of grotesque, And they dishonor you. To them, you are To these lazy, complaining, &quot;Please, we need (Dagon sighing) You are the only one that If anything, you are a hero. You're a god to be worshiped, not-not-not mocked like - Dad, where are you? Hunter! - There's a beautiful It's beyond anything Our people have been We need great leaders Our people, these people They're not. These entities, they just and are willing to anything There's a new world order, Come! Come with me, Hunter. Come with me, and you will be (Dagon sighing) Do what thou whilst. - Hunter! Dad! (sighing) Dad, - Did you see him, Jo? He was so beautiful. - Did I see who, Dad? What did you see? You're really You have to pull it together. This town is starting to crack. Dad, we believe in you, and we believe that this is but the cracks are The bickering, the - Look, I'm fine, Jo. Everything's gonna be great. - Dad, you're not fine. You're not, I can, I and you definitely don't Dad, you're under attack, Don't you? - No. I'm good, Jo. - That's a lie. I know you better than (Dagon clapping) (Dagon laughing) - Bravo. The spawn has a little (chuckling) Go, you little witch. We're playing big - Rossi was right. - Rossi is braindead. Spews nothing but nonsense. - And you, you're a - What is one without the other? I am a liar, I'm a deceiver, but you, however, are Should I go on? - In the name of Jesus, - (chuckling) Oh yes, you all you want, but he is mine. - No, he'll never be yours. Dad, this thing has Fight it. - I'm tired, Jo. I'm tired. Good, give me your burdens. Cast your weariness on me. - Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. - Oh, your cries - For thine is the the glory, forever and ever. - You pathetic piece of bile-- - Deliver us from evil! Dad? Dad, dad! Help! - Jo? Jo! - Welcome back. You had a little trouble. - I fulfilled my obligation-- (Baal scoffs) - You delivered, that's true, Not yet. - Look around, Hunter. This is your eternity. - No! - Welcome home. You made it so easy. Your tribe was and you were unwilling to see that I put my hand on its throat and choked out the - You were so surprised You believers are - And when you were banished you made it so easy to suck out your soul. They turned their Arrogance is terrible, and deception brings but when you bring disease, the entire clan, every soul turned You are alone. Even that (sighing) wretched - No. No, no. Not Josephine. (chains rattling) - They always forget when but I hear her - [Jo] You just put at risk of extinction, Dad! You're a liar and a deceiver. How could you? - No. - But you know better! That's a lie, that's a lie. - Rot in hell. (chains rattling) - Is he dying? Chris, please tell - He's not there. He's a shell. He's in a different He's fighting for his life. (Hunter grunting) - As worthy of an there's no reason to No point in resisting You have no power here. - I have defeated you. Victory is mine! - Why won't he wake up? - He's being tortured. He's gonna need our help. We need to call on our We need to do battle and our only weapon is prayer. Paul. - Look, I-I don't - Stop! You're playing off of what Your faith is strong enough. We need it now! - Paul, please. (dramatic music) (Paul sighing) (Hunter groaning) - End your suffering, Hunter. Submit your spirit to us. We are perfect in this realm. You live for the fight. You can be a mighty - [Man] No! No! - Oh, strengthen me, Father. Oh, you're faithful... Protect me, Lord, (Hunter breathing heavily) - Oh my God. - He's bleeding. (Hunter groaning) (chain creaking) (Hunter grunting) (groaning loudly) - Oh, Father... Dear Lord, help us. - There has to be There has to be. - All that we can do is pray. - Then we pray. Everyone. (woman vocalizing) (Hunter groaning) - You can't even control your You are not worthy. - I am worthy! - No, you're not worthy. - Oh, release me, and establish my own dominion. And over you, Baal. - Clemency is yours. - For thine is the the glory, forever and ever. Amen. - Make him stop! Chris, make him stop! - [Paul] He's coming back! - He's coming back - Hunter has broken through (Dagon and Hunter groaning) (Dagon wheezing and coughing) - It was you I saw here. You have no power You're flesh and blood now. This is an even fight. - That was another dimension. (Hunter yelling) (Hunter groaning) (chain rattling) (Hunter groaning) Get up! - I don't know what to do. - Dad? Dad? Evil will not be victorious You have to fight it, Dad. (chain rattling) (Hunter yelling) - I don't fear you, Dagon. - That's a lie! You fear me! - I don't have fear. I've got faith in Jesus. - Your faith is an illusion. (chain rattling) (Hunter groaning) - Dear Lord, what's happening? (Jo crying) - No blood, Dagon. You can't kill me. My faith is strong. - It's over! Hunter, I have beaten you! (Dagon yelling) (sword clattering) (Dagon grunting) (both groaning) (bone snapping) (Hunter grunting) - Dad? Daddy, can you hear me? Dad? Dad, you have to fight it like I can't do this by myself! I need you! (somber music) - [Hunter Voiceover] since the world fell apart, and there's one thing Our Lord is faithful. He will strengthen us and if we authentically follow Him. (dramatic acoustic guitar music)