On March 19, 2015, it was announced that Joel Manby was previously the CEO of Herschend park company in the United States. The charismatic Manby had a proven track record of a public figure after appearing on the Manby faced a great challenge when he took The corporation's portfolio comprised of Gardens Tampa, Sesame Place in Pennsylvania, the original, SeaWorld San Diego which opened 1973, and SeaWorld San Antonio, which opened It was no secret why the position of CEO was had been in crisis mode. In 2013, the documentary Blackfish premiered. The film was a scathing look at the treatment and bred at SeaWorld amusement parks. By the end of 2013, the documentary was airing government officials, and the general public as a whole to end their signature Orca program. Manby assumed the position of CEO at the height Up to this point, SeaWorld's main response the filmmakers, and the interviewees, but pivoted to improving the living conditions In August of 2014, SeaWorld had announced that if approved would almost double the size subsequently in San Antonio and Orlando. When Manby joined the company, this project Coastal Commission, which had jurisdiction coastal zone, which included SeaWorld San Bay. Just over six months after Manby joined SeaWorld, but only on the condition that SeaWorld stop forcing them to end their Orca program entirely SeaWorld planned to sue the Coastal Commision was already taking SeaWorld in a new direction. The month after the Commission's conditional investors in which he outlined a new vision Manby's plan was to shift focus away from amusement park attractions with a nautical In the call, Manby announced three new attractions, named Sea Rescue. Sea Rescue was a documentary series that followed to rescue and rehabilitate marine life. The first attraction based off of the show Rescue The Ride, which would be constructed Another was tentatively titled Sea World: a rescue truck and receiving unique views This attraction was earmarked for SeaWorld Finally, the third attraction would be a submarine San Diego. The Sea Rescue rides were multi-million dollar Manby explained that he was diverting money Four months later, in March of 2016, Manby orca breeding program, despite continuing force them to do it. The following month, SeaWorld announced that cancelled, and as Manby had outlined, the for SeaWorld's three parks. While the Sea Rescue truck ride for Orlando receive its Sea Rescue attraction, a double Rescue Coaster. SeaWorld San Diego would also receive its more. In February of 2016, SeaWorld announced that was officially called, would be added to SeaWorld The children's area would feature aquariums, on exploration and adventure, with a theme On top of some small flat-top rides, the area Submarine Quest. This was the realization of the attraction conference call. The press release for the ride explained that expedition of scientific exploration, traveling remarkable undersea animals." Concept art of the area showed some of the with and torment incessantly with new creative This concept art was either hastily made or compositing, as seen by this piece of concept While these seem to just be stock photos quickly the inclusion of this kid is perfect foreshadowing. Construction began in the summer of 2016, of 2017. Ocean Explorer would be built just to the empty parcel next to one of the park's cafes. A flag display and a small animal viewing new realm. Concept art for the land was circulated as area's signature attraction, despite the elevated dark ride with outdoor sections, and The High in the Sky Seuss Trolley Train Both of these attractions were gentle trips a relaxing outdoor ride with some short dark With Submarine Quest, it was assumed that providing guests with special views of the In a statement, SeaWorld assured the public style dark ride," even though no one considered Instead, the press release explained that the ride vehicles, riders will play games during the indoor and outdoor journey." The company launched a significant media campaign SeaWorld SanDiego published a video series hosts Mike and Jenna chronicled the area and and construction. The Meet the Deep series is quite possibly construction by a theme park. The web series explores almost every aspect In the third episode, Mike and Jenna introduce experience design. Brian shows off the model ride vehicle for elements that were being installed in the be the attraction's signature feature. Days after this Meet the Deep episode was revealed at The International Association and it was revealed in epic fashion. (mild cheering ) A trailer was also released during the expo &quot;Punch in your coordinates. Dive into Ocean Explorer. In January of 2017, a Meet the Deep episode Chance Rides in Wichita, Kansas, which was They gave the first glimpse of the full-scale and the touch screen game. The next episode featured Mike and Jenna actually It was explained that the in-ride game would was challenging for players of all ages. It was also revealed that there would be different riders played. Also during this time, SeaWorld announced would debut at SeaWorld SanDiego in 2018. This coaster would be part of a Phase 2 expansion Throughout the spring of 2017, as construction the new land, Meet the Deep walked the site In April, SeaWorld held a ceremony to unveil &quot;3. 2. 1. Whooo!&quot; The submarine remained on display as construction Ocean Explorer and Submarine Quest had an Despite being delayed from Spring to Summer just 16 months after being announced. No one seemed more excited for the land to executives and the ride's designers hoped Tempting fate, SeaWorld San Diego President to new attractions has always been tremendously On June 1, 2017, Ocean Explorer held its grand Sea World pulled out all of the stops for There were ribbon wavers, confetti, at Busch Gardens Tampa, and they even got With the land now open, dozens of guests who casually walked inside the new world of exploration, immediately trampling the plants due to lack Ocean explorer featured four new kiddie rides, and the most well-received, Tentacle Twirl. The aquariums throughout Ocean Explorer were viewing angles as promised. There was also an interactive attraction, Cafe, whose signage choices were a bit confusing for small children, except for the craft beer The signature attraction was of course, Submarine The ride vehicles could be seen as guests the ride track. After hearing a year's worth of press describing many guests were excited and curious about Guests entered the attraction through an outdoor host named sub commander Sparks giving the companion Link, the ride's star and the &quot;That's Link. The R.O.V.&quot; &quot;Remotely Operated Vehicle of Exploration and Research. Or Supercomputer of the Sea&quot; &quot;Just Link will do&quot; A figure of Link could also be found at the After entering the show building for the loading pieces and immediately boarded their subs. There were seven subs, each with a special Two of them are named after parts of a ship, a first name, Maci Mackerel, and another is Bubbly Bailey. As guests sat in their ride vehicle, Sub Commander down on their lap bar, before Link joined Sub Commander Sparks told riders to tap the guests began their expedition into the majesty blinding sunlight. After passing by some trees and some concrete, which was that of a deep sea coral This scene is supposed to be in the twilight that sunlight cannot reach it. Of course, the ride represents this in broad an octopus. "Whoa that octopus was totally camouflaged" After the twilight zone was the sunlight zone, &quot;Whooaa. Eeeeellllsss&quot; &quot;Click faster.&quot; Sub Commander Sparks detects a large animal Riders are able to see Link in front of them. This static figure featured a digital face from the ride vehicle. The two decide to send out the beacon buddies &quot;Wow. Look at this genuinely amazing The beacon buddies find huge jellyfish and to the old sea pod to take a look. Riders are instructed to open another hatch, despite &quot;Press the blue button to open the hatch.&quot; The sub then enters a sea pod full of screens After a brief stop in the sea pod, riders just as the squid breaks the glass on the As guests exit the sea pod, water sprays at The water effect was incredibly inconsistent, triggered by a game mechanism and only appeared It was shot from the left of the ride vehicles, light mist it just hosed the rider in the After this scene, the subs take a final turn During this short segment, guests found out There were three options, Junior Explorer, though in play testing Mike scored &quot;Marine that made it into the final game. Guests then reentered the loading station Incredibly, Submarine Quest was not a hit In general, guests were shocked to find out as it took place fifteen feet above the ground The outdoor show scenes were sparse, and the The ride did look better at night, as there in the deep ocean, but sunset in the summer SeaWorld closed at 9. The creative decisions made for Many guests speculated that the ride had which could be possible but concept art for the Supposedly, the initial plans called for the ride However, it seemed that a significant portion for the unique ride vehicle rather than The designers clearly took a lot of pride part of the experience was built from more However, in practice, all that is noticeable mechanics of the game, most obvious in the section, which was present all the way back &quot;Tap the screen to deploy the beacon buddies.&quot; Other criticisms included the screens being and that the voice of Link was obnoxious. &quot;Excitement overload!&quot; To add insult to injury, the entire realm believed that Ocean Explorer was the name &quot;What... what the heck is this &quot;So, Ocean Explorer is actually the name of the whole land.&quot; On June 3rd, two days after the ride's debut, the San Diego Union Tribune saying quote &quot;The biggest disappointment is SeaWorld is touting it as high-tech trip but it turns out to be a slow-moving track ride Brady MacDonald of the Orlando Sentinel said a slow-moving transportation system that doesn't On August 8th 2017, during Sea World's Quarter had been a disappointment. He said, quote, "I think the one thing that I'm We did not market this as well as I wanted to. It's completely designed for young children A sign was quickly placed outside the attraction despite initial marketing claiming However, poor marketing and bad reviews would issues plagued the attraction as well. The ride often had a significant wait, as rather than the seven the ride was capable of. This was only a problem when the ride was Throughout the ride's debut summer, Submarine By September, frequent guests noticed that One visitor noted that they had been four had been closed all four times. The ride operated intermittently throughout of the fall. It did reopen in December, and on December accumulated a 130 minute wait time, baffling This was one of the last days of operation It is unclear if the ride operated in early but by mid-January 2018, a mere seven Quest were blocked off, leaving guests speculating On February 28, 2018, SeaWorld CEO Joel Manby after less than three years as the chief executive. Falling attendance and steep quarterly losses but multiple publications were quick to mention While clearly not the main reason for his been a contributing factor. Just four days later, it was announced that Vice President of Theme Park Experience Design, Many online again wondered if the resignations Ocean Explorer realm, but this is merely speculation. Other rumors circulated attempting to make Some believed that an injury had occured on the designers or the manufacturers over technical Currently, there is no evidence to support Without explanation, Submarine Quest remained In May, The San Diego Union Tribune ran a SeaWorld San Diego's official statement Theme park consultant Dennis Speigel believed that the ride needed to be shut down, but was so overwhelmingly negative that it was Despite the open-ended response on the ride's ride from the park's website. The attraction's name was soon removed from being modified to remove the ride cars. On May 10, 2018, Electric Eel debuted at SeaWorld Billed as an addition to the Ocean Explorer it geographically, the short coaster was received from Submarine Quest's continued closure. In the summer of 2018, leftover Submarine and Busch Gardens Tampa, despite the ride side of the country. On July 2, 2018, Legoland California, a theme debuted their own Submarine Ride, named Lego The attraction actually placed guests under also featured more story and more show scenes. With a longer ride time and an actual feeling ride was everything that guests wanted and were quick to notice the juxtaposition. In October of 2018, 16 months after its opening for Submarine Quest was taken down. The ride sat dormant for over a year while On March 16, 2020, SeaWorld announced the COVID-19 pandemic. SeaWorld SanDiego was the last of the SeaWorld April 12, 2021. When it did, it was revealed that work walls One guest noted that around 20% of the ride for the only dark ride portion, confirming that Submarine Quest is a perplexing story. Most tales of ride failures have an obvious a mechanical flaw, a rush to market, or a makes the initial concept taboo halfway through However, Submarine Quest did not have an obvious hurdle. While budget, time constraints, and mechanics based on available information, it bad idea with bad execution. The design team clearly put a lot of energy of the wrong areas, and the heavy marketing could not distract from the ride's glaring Submarine Quest is not only a result of the time of its construction. It's also a perfect representation of it. Submarine Quest, like Sea World, had a huge identity problem. It did not know what it should be, and it certainly As SeaWorld continues to rebrand and evolve, as a whole meet a different fate than that