She is my person. I can cure Mu Shaoxia's injury. Heweibai is so precious. It's a pity to use it. Zuo Qingci. This young master is here. I know it is a sword trial tournament, so I came here. Heweibai is what I want. She helps me with things. If your words and deeds offend the alliance leader, you still want to see Haihan. Fang Waigu has always ignored the sect disputes, but she is not easy to bully. If you catch her, she will not deal with Fang Waigu. You are from Fang Waigu. Below, Zuo Qing, the master of Waigu Shaogu, This is interesting. Just now, Elder Xiu told me that this woman is the person who stole the medicine from the Zangzhen Pavilion at night. So if she doesn't catch you for stealing the medicine, a young valley master from Fangwai Valley is still worth some money. You hurry up and pay here. Show me my real person and ask me who I am, and I will tell you that I am the master of the Su Yunluo family. It is the sword demon Su Xuan. Su Xuan is right. As long as he wins the sword test competition, he will get the crane tail. This is what you said. I am a disciple of Zhengyang Palace. How can I be qualified to stand here without the permission of the master? I voluntarily left Zhengyang and participated in the name of Su Yunluo. I don't need Zhengyang Palace's moves. You saw it just now, right? This Su Xuan's unique swordsmanship is not inferior to the way of heaven. The Nine Powers are ridiculous. Although you are using his unique swordsmanship, the Nine Powers of Heaven are still integrated into it. Your martial arts skills are all derived from Zhengyang. Even if you are given three months, it is impossible to put aside the Zhengyang Heart Technique. I can't. It will take three months and one day. I don't even have to let you watch Su Xuan's unique swordsmanship. Zhengyang swordsmanship was defeated by me. I'm so arrogant. The master doesn't care. Her senior brother beat her. Beat her. Beat her. Beat her. Beat her brother. It's not surprising that you, the leader of the alliance, are afraid of her. After all, he was also one of Su Xuan's subordinates at the beginning. Your master was a master-killer and a traitorous disciple. He disciplined you Wu Gang. I wanted to take you back to Zhengyang and reshape your sword style. Since you don't bother to be Zhengyang. I don't force myself to be a disciple. As we all know that Zhengyang Palace is the most disciplined place in the entire martial arts world. You can't just come and go as you please. Those who betray the master must pay a price. Do n't you want to come back in one day? That's right. One day. After that, I don't even have to take you Hewei Bai's every move in Zhengyang Palace. Then everyone here at this time tomorrow will witness that if you win Hewei Bai, you are mine. You can go and he can stay in the abandoned house and find Sun Siruo. If anything happens tomorrow, You know where to look for me, Hewei. Who is left behind? I want Hewei Bai. What is she going to do? If you wait, you can only cause trouble if you go up now. Senior Brother Haishan's tone is not small. Senior brother, I recognize this woman. Look at her figure. The person who stole the medicine from Zangzhen Pavilion that night, why did you need Hewei Bai? The injury he suffered just now didn't need Hewei Bai to heal it. This Hewei Bai is the top spot in the sword trial competition. He takes it based on his ability. If you don't accept it, come up and fight me. What sect and sect are you from? You have no sect and no sect. You can't win Hewei Bai based on your ability. You have no sect and no sect. You are not on the list of sword testers. You are not qualified to compete. In short, Hewei has to make up his mind. He misses Zuo Qing. Where is the resignation? One day has passed. What is the price? Zhengyang sect rules. Anyone who rebels from the sect must receive the three palms of Zhengyang. Okay, I am willing to receive the three palms. Brother Haishan, the sect rules are to look at the palms. Come back and the master finds someone entering the abandoned house. The last palm. I come, Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, Zhengyang and I are cut off with a single blow. Yunluo, Yunluo, you can't fight anymore. Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, Yunluo, we can think of another way. You can't fight again. , Yun Luo Yun Luo, don't hit Yun Luo. You can't hit Yun Luo anymore. Yun Luo, Yun Luo. Yun Luo, you can't hit Yun Luo anymore. Three palms have passed. Can I compete now with the opponent that Yin Changge defeated you just now? If you win Hewei Baigui, you will never break your promise. Yu Gu takes the Qingli Sword and Changge takes the sword. This is the sword from Zhengyang Palace. The disciple does not dare to draw the sword. Remember, the sword of Zhengyang Palace is the disciple. I will live up to my expectations. The sword in your hand is my master's sword, and you will also be my subordinate. He Wei is mine, and I will take him back to Yu Gu. You, this person, will remain as your first disciple. Let him go in exchange for one. Why did Huo Xi not use sword skills yesterday? It turned out to be to preserve his strength. Leader Mu, the four major sects, now only Mu Mansion, the only one, will not stop here today, right? Mu Ying has little talent and little knowledge, but he is also capable of defeating enemies. The only way is to wait for the opportunity to come. These words are really the secret of Mu Mansion's cloud-piercing sea. It is indeed well -deserved. It's a real person. It's a pity that Ying'er's fire has not come yet. Otherwise, this move will determine the winner. Mu Ying, is he going to burn the boat? What does Mu Ying mean? He himself has also suffered internal injuries. If he continues to fight like this, he will become more injured and serious. The situation will change. If we continue to fight, Huo Xi can still defeat the leader. Now don't worry. I was still fierce last night. I, the winner, Yanhu, helped Huo Xi and slowed down Master Mu. Master Aunt, why did you call me to give this thing to the Mu Mansion? You, Aunt Mu Lian, what is this? I heard that she has been looking for this string. I happened to get it and you gave it to her. He is not Huo Xi from the Yanhu Gang, he is me. The person I have been waiting for for ten years, Qianli Guyin Sun Siruo, Sun Siruo, didn't he disappear ten years ago? If things turn around again, he lied to my junior sister and harmed her after waiting for ten years. How dare you pretend to be today? He came to the sword trial competition to deceive me. He used to bully my relatives and today he hurts my beloved disciple. Today I want to kill Lian'er for the martial arts. For the past ten years, I have avoided my senior brother Lian'er every day. Leave this person to me, Lian'er. He is the one you want to disguise yourself in. If someone else wins Hewei, will he just leave and continue hiding for the rest of his life? Do you really not want to see me again? It turns out that the ghost boy tried everything possible to restore his true body because of this love debt. What happened to restoring his true body will shorten his life? He only has a few days to live. His only wish for the rest of his life is to meet you again. He is a ghost boy who has killed countless people. He dares to talk to this person here with clever words. I can only come to kill Lian'er. Get out of the way. Get out of the way and let me capture the person. , people, people are chasing