I've learnt that unless you speak your views don't get heard. So I hope that by being incredibly strong I'm rectifying a global imbalance in the debate Former Singapore diplomat Kishore Mahbubani titled Living The Asian Century: In it, he gives a gripping account and how his father was once jailed. He also recounts the ups in the Ministry of Foreign of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. I'm Sumiko Tan, executive Mr Mahbubani has chosen to have lunch in Crane Road, opposite the house He tells me and says he has been misunderstood Congratulations on your memoirs. You call it an "undiplomatic" memoir. Why is that? Well, it's undiplomatic because it tells hard truths that sometimes don't come up in memoirs. So I try to be very open about how brutal great powers can be in the way they treat countries You were quite personal Was it painful reliving, like, say, what happened to him? It's in some ways quite therapeutic also. My friend Jeffrey Sng recalls me when my father was standing here with a broken beer bottle after having fought with someone, And there I was, must have been about back to our house, you know, So, it's painful. I mean, how much of your childhood affected the way you approach I didn't enjoy the adversity I clearly didn't enjoy seeing my mother suffer a lot, the uncertainty when debt collectors came to our house, when they posted notices to say We didn't appreciate all that. But there's no question that there's no way as I have been or survive if I hadn't experienced, number one, and also experienced the strength There were many times when we didn't She always told us, never tell people you must always put on a brave face on your lips and smile, I did put butter on my lips especially every time I went Would you say there were many downturns Oh, many, many downturns. Which in some ways, as I tried to explain Each time I went down, but I could never break But I became stronger in the process What's the biggest misunderstanding I think the biggest misunderstanding I do a lot of writing and speaking. to rebalance the global debate on the world. Because we get lots of strong and loud Anglo-Saxon voices telling us this is how the world is, this is how the world should be. And even though the Anglo-Saxon population of the world is, there are 10 times If you look at the global debate, And so you get a very distorted And the reason why you don't hear Asian voices is because Asians culturally tend to be self-effacing and believe that it is and not speak aggressively and boldly. But I've learnt that unless you speak aggressively and boldly, So I hope that by being incredibly strong and aggressive in my views, I'm rectifying a global imbalance in the debate between East and West. But, of course, to my Asian friends, and self-confident and assertive. And they say, oh, but they don't realise that actually is to persuade the Anglo-Saxons And paradoxically, the Anglo-Saxons a counter point of view They want to hear And so, on the one hand, I think I'm doing a service On the other hand, I get, how do you say, misunderstood and scolded. There is a view that What do you say to that? If I was pro-China, from leading Western thinkers. When Larry Summers was asked by Bloomberg: "Which were the three best books He mentioned Barack Obama's memoirs. He mentioned Angus Deaton's book, Deaths Of Despair, and he mentioned Kishore Mahbubani's book, Has China Won? And I wouldn't at American universities if I was pro-China. But might any of these views be at odds It is not in Singapore's national interest to see the United States become more because if the US-China contest accelerates, it will be very disruptive for the world. And since Singapore is the most trade-dependent the United States is endangering national interests by creating disruptions. So what I'm doing is effectively defending When you hear someone say, you know, how do you feel? I think they are right in the sense at explaining their point of view It's not surprising because are not articulate in English. Most Chinese from China are also culturally self-effacing. So when I read what the West writes about China, This is not what China is trying to do. There's a big difference between two words One is &quot;aggressive&quot; China has definitely become All great powers become assertive, Now China actually hasn't started a war And that is often missed in the debate. So the people whom I am debating are the people But, of course, in Singapore, you see what you see, you think, oh, Kishore is being very pro-China. The two parts in the world to give speeches on China So they are the ones who say, yes, let's listen to a different point of view. If you could summarise your views on China Number one, it is a given that the United States because all great powers Number two, what the United States and expected. It is not wise. And it would be wiser for the United States global challenges in the world, would be better off working with China And thirdly, appreciate my writings a lot, I point out that actually American society faces it's internal. Do you think you have exhausted everything No, absolutely not. Because the most dangerous years in the US-China relationship are not over. They're coming. So, the next 10 years So I expect that the demand and China will grow because there are very few people and published articles on the subject globally. Thanks for having lunch. My pleasure. Thank you for having me.