- These are 10 things you under $20 and with so many new products, this could be my favorite IKEA video yet. We begin with this portable Built for those short on closet space, or expecting extra guests over the holiday where you might need to These storage boxes at $8 are ingenious. While I know you could always these are more effective for those times where you might need to see or certain kids' toys that And this air quality sensor an immediate, easy to of your indoor air quality. Right after I did some cooking, you can see the front LEDs to indicate a change in air quality. Point two begins with a pop of color and some illumination, thanks to this 14 inch table lamp at $18. I found this to be a with three different color I consider the modern vibe and including an office, which brings me to this at 17 bucks that easily or this natural wood color. I've spilled a few so this is something I have my eye on. As another DIY desk option, and attaches to any It's great for a dorm or an office. This clip-on basket at nine bucks can just as easily function for a workspace or wardrobe as it would in a kitchen as a quick method to And for 99 cents, this as the second cheapest item I The clips on these bad boys attached to almost any flat for a hobby room, kitchen utensils, or even tools in a garage. For point three, we head with this expandable colander at $13 and selling for two bucks This will expand to fit so you can clean veggies, berries, or drain pasta with one hand. If the expansion factor is not essential this plastic colander of spaghetti or lasagna This grill pan with a highly at $20 allows it to store away with ease. And at 14 by 10 inches you get a beautiful yet functional design with grill marks and spouts on either This milk frother at 1.99 from last year that I am happy to see. This heat resistant glass looks like it's straight It's dishwasher and microwave safe with convenient markings on either side. And for ambiance at the table after your meal is ready to serve this LED table lamp is portable, cute, and can even be hung By the way, if you are feel free to give it a thumbs up as that really helps my channel. For point four, these at 15 bucks are surprisingly or even for a kid's desk, with a black color option as For the outdoors and reduced from $35, these chairs in gray or yellow, now at just 15 bucks have with a quick fold for easy storage. This large indoor mat at for a side or backdoor, have the words &quot;Welcome,&quot; printed on it. For that, this $10 option for an entryway and is generously I saw this pair of curtains for $18 that could offer some privacy on a budget. These have a nice build to them, but if you'd prefer this very well rated pair from below for around the same price might be the better way to go. And speaking of quality, this wire basket with a beautiful looking handle is tied to yet another price drop. For $13, I consider these Point five starts with tied to this glass pitcher This is a highly presentable way to serve anything from ice Alternatively, and for hot or cold drinks, these insulated vacuum flasks at $5 hold up to 32 ounces of liquid, and since you don't need to entirely remove the lid when you pour, the temperature integrity of As a final beverage bargain, this French press coffee is made of glass and stainless steel, and I know many of you so here you go. I love the size of this 11 inch lazy Susan with a bamboo base for 15 bucks. We use one inside our kitchen cabinet to better access our spices And I wanted to flag this which could be a perfect or appliance that you However, if this shiny black there are stainless steel options that are better priced This 20 piece flatware set at $10 is one of those almost hard It's likely best suited for You get four of everything you need, and the quality seemed excellent. Finally, to add to your list of proof you can truly buy anything at IKEA, this five quart bamboo steamer at 20 bucks could get the job done for Point six starts with a stunningly low price. This three drawer storage unit on wheels for just $15 was easy to assemble and wonderful for an office or to be used even inside Speaking of garments, this would be wonderful for runway or in my case, all the clothing deals my wife found over Amazon Prime Day. This shoe tray at 3.99 is an IKEA find I showcased last year, but inspired mustard yellow as an option for those muddier months approaching. Alternatively for a dollar more, this raised metal shoe also now sports that new This shower squeegee at 1.99 Wonderful to have on hand to clean the shower or mirrors with ease. While these slippers with are comfortable to wear, it might be uncomfortable for some of you to watch me model them with bare feet, but they are great beside a bed. And to wake you up in style, this no frills LED alarm clock at $20 has a giant display snooze buttons I've ever seen. For a basic but large nine that price is hard to beat. And a clear example of where IKEA shines for higher quality, low priced Point seven is centered around tech. And this ring LED light, Centered, ring. Anyhow, it's $15. The color temperature is and attaches easily to a display or a laptop to improve the quality of your Zoom meetings or for streaming. If you already have a USB cable, this wireless charger as one of the least And while we're on the this chair-like mobile is funky, yet practical while you watch a YouTube video. For a larger screen, at the same price would compliment While this version in the gives you that extra height, that might be best for or for viewing recipes while you cook. I love the additional to prevent scratching while I wanted to celebrate to the LED decor right the South Beach-like floor lamps with the bulb built into the top. And finally, before we shift to bedding, this four function clock at $8 between the time, date, temperature, or to set a stopwatch countdown simply by flipping it to a different side. For point eight, I wanted to buy and try this queen size pillow at $8 before I made any recommendations. It's certainly not the but it is plush, supportive So for a decorative pillowcase, or maybe overnight to overstay their welcome, For more frequent sleeping, at 12 bucks felt to be for that $4 more. At the same price as the pillow, if you prefer to air dry your clothes, these racks are a very basic design, but better than just hanging something over a railing or balcony. While these tree shaped extend from a wall to hang hats, bags, or coats for an entryway or mudroom. This lint roller at 59 I found during my shopping trip, but based on its thickness, I believe you'd be better off buying the alternatives at the Dollar Tree. This laundry bag with stand and quickly folds up for transport or to conceal in a closet. This five pack of storage boxes with lids at $10 could handle crafting, any supplies for a home office, or even beauty products for a bathroom. Finally, these storage cabinets that come in a two pack at 40 bucks, making them $20 each are one on IKEA's entire website. They attach to a wall of storage from clothing to if that's your thing. For my next point, and or meal prep, these 50 at 3.99 are similar in terms of design to a Ziploc, but also touted as reusable. If you are more inclined this three piece reusable set at $18 is a very high quality system. And while I do wish they if you were to buy the name it would set you back These plastic bag beyond their product title with gift wrap or even a yoga mat. You might want to take a pass on this three pack of food covers for $6, as you can find a at Dollar Tree for a buck 25. While these reusable are one of the biggest I've seen and could serve as a or other hefty food dishes If you're short on drawer space this kitchen utensil stand at $7 is made from a powder coated steel, and could be fantastic for utensils you frequently use. If you like to keep your inside a cabinet, these plate holders that range in price from eight They have built-in carry handles that would make them ideal for hosting. So you can efficiently move and then back again after they're cleaned. These multifunctional dish racks at $15 are composed from both plastic and metal, and they would sit nicely on or non-dishwasher safe serveware. To protect your counters from hot pots, these stainless steel trivets at $9 are versatile enough to double as a quick dry dish rack as well. And from the indoors to the outdoors, these metal shelf units at $20 come in three different sizes. They could provide a nice home for plants, or even garden equipment in a shed. Before I get to the bonus section, the iconic IKEA shopping bag at 99 cents might not need an introduction, for anyone looking for to transport items after a And if you really wanna these bucket hats at to quickly learn who For our four-legged friends, these circular shaped with a faux fur look extremely relaxing. While this cat tent at $20 space for your feline family members, and tucks away beside For human furniture, this could accommodate And I apologize for my video footage as this was only being displayed This 15 piece tool set at $16 would be wonderful for great for many basic household repairs or adjustments for that matter, which can also be said of this which could certainly help with As I collect many requests for these, I wanted to showcase the massive with prices ranging from 13 to $19. The IKEA collection is modern and styles to choose from. And for plants, I love color glaze stoneware at eight bucks, where utensil storage could For the bonus section are actually unaware that can be enjoyed from the for a two pound pack. While we're at it, a six at seven bucks is something I did not see at my local store until recently. And if you know me, I never let a professional These are decadent and very gratifying. This key chain mobile phone intelligent in terms of so you can support your phone in an upright position wherever you are. I'm classifying these floating because while they cost more I have these in my studio for every YouTube video I shoot. So I of course love them. This chalkboard easel at for the price, perfect that you might have at This six pack of wine glasses generous in size, just in case you've had that type of day or night. And if you've been watching this video, thinking to yourself, &quot;Wow, I really wish that guy would tell me I'm thrilled to reveal I like the stand and to the light control is on the power cord. And there you have it, I love you, bye-bye.