So... listen to this... Everyone knows Pele, Ronaldo, Ronaldinho, But there is one name that's known all across else in the world... I'm talking about Dener... And at one point or another, his name was players... Even Pele's very own son said that Dener and spirit of Ronaldinho and the efficiency We're talking about a player who impressed and applaud him... There's a reason he was known as the "The However, as you might have guessed by now... Dener passed away at 23... Only days after his move to Europe had been the 1994 world cup started... Ronaldo was the last name on that squad list, and still it was enough to change his career Most believe that if Dener had been there, or any of those other players I've mentioned... But in the middle of all my research, there I heard someone claim that to this day people So I looked up his name in a football database for the national team there were no other there were dozens, with the vast majority death... That's how much Dener meant to the people what he was like, watching him play felt like And the first glimpse of his talent came in Dener had quit football so he could help his However that year, a huge youth futsal tournament I'm talking... live broadcast on TV and 7 thousand people there are champions league clubs averaging right now... So to the schools taking part in it, this out scouts to roam the streets looking for and ended up offering Dener a "scholarship"... Dener never showed up for a class, they were What they weren't expecting was that Dener sort of just began extorting them, refusing pay him more and more... And by the time he got to that final, he was ever make at a regular job... However soon that would mean nothing, as Dener catching the eye of the likes of Sao Paulo signing for the latter... But once there, they quickly realized there a real street kid... most days he didn't watch every single one of his matches, as was still okay... Even though most described Dener as a really were into some really heavy stuff and their It wasn't rare to find stories of Dener aggressive during football matches... And at one point, things actually got much midway through a training session and taking robbery along with 5 of his so-called friends... Only being released after two days and only they would watch over him... However, like many other players he would chance at life and things would eventually Still, soon after he was getting his debut boot winner Alfinete so much, that he asked for Dener to tell him: "It's my debut these things cost like 500 bucks"... he was, Portuguesa were kind of broke, they team despite the fact that he had already But since Dener didn't wanna leave his childhood taking his bluff as far as driving to the the president to fold and hand him the contract... So yeah, even if morally questionable, it for Portuguesa... Because soon after that contract was signed, off from deep, dribbled past half the team the greatest goal in the history of the club... However, right after it happened, one of his in the world have you just done?"... and I score goals like this every training session"... And after proving that right, with plenty came calling... On his debut, Dener was so excited to come before the other player had come out... being process... but even those shenanigans weren't Despite only getting 6 minutes on the pitch, the counter attack that allowed Brazil to It was a seriously promising start, but soon of the season after injuring himself trying began hounding him... which only became worse qualification to the olympic games, with Dener Dener was being seen as the frontman in a Carlos, as unfair as his treatment was, it Still, don't get me wrong, the media did, own aunt once said: "he thought that if of sleep was more than enough"... But the thing is that, for Dener, it really There was this one time when no one could Everyone was worried, the manager was already absence and then a couple hours before the He went into the match and it was like he losing 2 nil and as one of his teammates said trashed 8 nil by Santos"... However, in the locker room, the manager went and eventually telling him he was gonna be But at that moment Dener looked him in the I'm gonna go into that pitch and I am the Once he finished that sentence, the whole was about to happen... about half an hour 3 to 2, but it wasn't enough... Then he got the ball, put it between the first the sprint and slotted it in after dribbling It was a masterpiece, by the time the final and told them "I said what I said, I am Everyone here must understand this, I am Dener"... In other words, he wanted them to know that Regardless, not even these kinds of performances his bad boy persona... Over the next year, he arrived at training was caught hiding a blade in his sock as he his teammates... As one newspaper called him, he was "a brilliant infamous players in the country and unfortunately even though he had the likes of 2 time world more chances, in terms of raw talent, no player At this point, it was more clear than ever, first step towards that was getting away from friends... So he talked to Gremio, who had been dreaming afford him, and worked out a deal for a 3 It all went incredibly well, they even won rose even further and by the time he got back same predicament... his contract was nearing its end and they would say "It was getting to a point where of his teammates put together... We were getting so desperate that at one point, away the stadium to his name... He would be We realized it was impossible to keep him And it was at this point that Dener made a of his life... Dener said he would agree to renew his contract Eclipse as a sign on bonus... It might seem like a small request now, but cars into Brazil due to some really strict in a haystack... By the time Dener got the car, it was one Everywhere he took his spaceship, as he liked job with Dener 10 on the license plate and had just signed his death sentence... However, while all of this happened in Sao in Rio De Janeiro that sealed his destiny... Back in 1989, a man named Eurico Miranda became football, leading them to win the Copa America However, one year later, he had already left... The problem was simple, he was also the vice to let go of that position. Simultaneously, Jair Pereira, a manager who was sacked from Atletico after getting into it was right here that Eurico Miranda approached do you wanna be champions with me?" and Jair replied: "Yeah, I'll make you I only have one demand... Dener"... At this moment, Eurico's eyes widened... Signing Dener was gonna be his first suggestion... desperate to right his wrongs and secure a at Vasco was the perfect move... He was getting the exposure provided by joining managing to get away from his hometown and the wishes of two men who had great power For once, he was making the right move... Or at least that's what everyone thought... On the first day of training, Dener was so start the session by running around the pitch, reached the corner flag, he slipped, fell, to the great amusement of everyone of his Regardless, this over excitement translated How well, you ask... Let's just say thar his debut against Newell's of his entire career... That day, the focus should've been on Maradona, injured for a few months... However, Dener had another plan... 6 minutes in, Dener took the ball and made only barely missing out on the goal... That early into the match Maradona was already And Dener pretty much didn't stop until He was so incredible that the next day, even cover... But nothing was more shocking than when Maradona into their locker room asking for "the kid"... Maradona wanted to shake his hand... I don't think there is a bigger seal of The moment Diego left, Dener just kept rubbing ever ask to meet you? Didn't think so"... Even 3 years later when his teammate, Ricardo still talked about that young boy who showed It was especially ironic that a goalless match I mean Dener was literally famous for saying than the goal"... Dener was on some of his greatest form ever, begun chanting "It's cafune, it's cafune, However, what no one realized back then was one of the lowest moments of his life... Despite the fact he had three kids and financially was his wife, Dener never actually got married he was dating other women... And only one month after arriving at Vasco, being run over by a car during the Carnival... Still, no matter what his mental state was had earned him his first move to europe... At the end of the season, Dener would join but unfortunately, that move would never take Only 3 days after signing that contract, and had gone back to Sao Paulo for the negotiations, go back to Rio immediately. Despite the fact he already had a plane ticket his famous Mitsubishi Eclipse in Sao Paulo... So... Tired and with a 5 hour trip ahead of him, that he should stay the night, it didn't 3 months earlier Dener had met a man named drug dealer and personal friend of both Romario Once again, Dener picked his friendships poorly Paulo... That day, no matter what Dener's family take turns sleeping while the other drove Before leaving, Dener picked up his phone a goalkeeper at Santos and even more notably The two had met around 7 years earlier in Dener scored past Edinho, the two struck conversation, extremely close... However, that day, when Dener called he seemed loved him... Edinho insists to this day that Dener had Regardless, at 5 a.m., already in Rio De Janeiro, Otto fell asleep at the wheel, lost control They were only going around 40 miles per hour, were two broken legs... Dener had leaned his seat back too far, meaning causing his larynx to bleed, ultimately leading Somehow, the cameras got to the accident before there with newspapers covering his face would 13 days later, Ayrton Senna died as well... in the history of Brazilian sports... Even more depressing, it took years in court owed to them by their life insurance... Vasco had never actually filed the papers, To make this all even more strange... Otto was assassinated months later...