Hey, it's me, Destin. I'm very excited to share this video to see how it's all played out. Years ago, I met a guy named Don Pettit. Don is an astronaut, a childlike love for the unknown an amazing guy to talk to. Well, Don and I have talked over the years and I've learned through the years that he for a guy named Matthew Dominic. Now, the schedules have lined up so are in space at the same time. And that's special because it's not often will fly with their mentee. So this little overlap in time is a very And so I wanted to do Now, what's so special about this accomplished photographers, to take incredible photos from space. And we're going to get to do It's awesome. We're squished in there And so you feel like you're up it's like to take photos from space. And on top of that, and you can tell that they're So this is a really special interview, I'm really excited that at some moments in to letting the camera float around. That just adds to the weightlessness feel. So all right, let's go to the space and Matthew Dominic, and learn Okay, we're about to connect We're going to see Matthew and Don. We're going to see what's [Mission Control] 10 seconds. [Matt] We're ready for the event. How's it going, guys? Going great. Lima, Charlie. [Don] We hear you loud and clear, [Destin Chuckling] [D] That's quite the- [M] Loving life Check it out the view. [D] That's quite the setup you have there. I just figured our delay out, quiet after I say something. I am noticing that you've got really good to be night going away. [M] Absolutely, yeah. Just a couple of minutes ago, The sun just rose up in front of us, and We actually had the shutter over We had closed, so we weren't Then just before you called, down on the other side of space station. Yeah, the dynamic lighting [D] I'm going to level with you. This is what's going on here. I saw the interview you did with I thought it was incredible. I happen to know that you guys are The fact that you are together in space this is just the coolest thing, and you Is it as cool to be there together [Don] Yeah. Sometimes we have to focus on what would like to charge off and do. [M] It's been an absolute blast up here. We have our jobs that we do during the day and we actually do do them. But going off and hopping into the cupola a lot of stuff from Don. Before I launched, Don and I spent a lot and he was explaining some of the things and Don would show me a few things It's awesome that just the way things station, and we're having a blast. [D] Just so everybody understands, you are Matthew's astronaut mentor, astronaut things that little astronauts first learned to astronaut. [Destin breaks out laughing] [Don] We end up teaching each other because Matthew's got these amazing skills that he came in from his background, the angular edges off It's a blast learning from Don. We both have the same giant We both have different backgrounds, curiosity about everything around us. [D] What I want to know... [Don] Hold it, but childhood curiosity, some of us haven't even grown up yet. [D] It's an open secret in the whole NASA community that, Don, you've had a list that you've been writing to take up My question is, Matthew, of the little experiments he's [M] Saturday morning science Don's got a lot of cool I've seen just a glimpse, to grow and learn from what [D] That's awesome. Go ahead, Don. [Don] I was just going to say I think that has something to do with [D] I'm excited for you guys. Okay, so here's the question. We're in a rare situation where we have in the cupola with a downlink, My question is, do you have the ability on this little talkie-talk Matt, I know Don might not be able to do figured it out, right? [Don] Yeah, Matt and I had a bet as to whether No, Destin isn't going to ask that. [D] All right, so with your permission, I want to explore the space of the cupola. This is something I've Don, in fact, I don't know that you mockup of the cupola in building nine. [Don] I remember that, and yes, I do. What they do want to point out, cramped place, and sometimes we've had up but looking at special events. But you need a real wide angle lens of what's going on here. The video camera we have, but it is not the same standard mirrorless camera. [D] Got it. Do you have your Z9 handy? Do you guys have that thing What wide angle lens are we talking about? [Don] Okay, we've got this lens is a zoom lens that we use for daytime imagery, and it's fairly slow. It's like a F-F-4-5. This is a 24-millimetre We use this a lot for night time imagery. Here is one on a mount... Right here. [Don] This is a 50 millimeter F1.2 lens. And It's not an ultra-wide angle lens. It's kinda considered a normal lens But man, it really sucks in the light [D] Is that a remote shutter you have there? [M] Yeah, exactly. [Don] A cable release. [M] This is fun to handle a camera. One of the really cool parts I enjoy about another I just leave I could just talk into the microphone. It's like it's like I have three hands. But Don and I have been really having It's an F1.2, Takes in a huge... It's just a giant light bucket, Don, every morning has been taking and then late at night, that we've had going on right now to Mission Control as well. [D] Okay, so what I want to do is I want You have that wide angle on the Z9. You have the big boy on the Z9. Can you turn the camera on and record Can you record Z9 video [M] We might be able to do something like we have right now is the XF. We have a camcorder, It's hardwired into space station. We have a cable running back down and that goes into a coder. We're actually on a cable The Z9s are predominantly our steel some cool 16 millimeter fish eye lenses. We have an 8 millimeter fish eye lens but we have a little spinny wide angle on the camera we're currently on. You can spin it off and you can see for the camera we're currently using. Oh, yeah, that's it. [M] Yeah. See if you can... [M] See if you can do a good spin, Don. It's fun to spin it off real nice. There we go. Now you can see this lens spinning We have a good time [D] Oh, that's great. So there's a few questions I had. When I saw your Scientific American you were talking about these new filters. And so what I'm wondering, most of the photos I've seen of space the ground has been blown out. But these filters allow you to be able and the Earth, correct? [Don] Yeah. I borrowed an idea in Hollywood use when they do filming indoors with windows and brightly-lit scenes outside. You want them all balanced. The intensity is just too great What the big boys do is they put neutral as a thin film over the windows to balance the outside and the inside. And that's what we've done here. I talk NASA into cutting some four stop ND filters to fit the cupola windows, and we can put em up. It takes a few minutes to put them up, to be done in the cupola. It's really bright outside. And by cutting the intensity down four that's a factor of, gosh, 16, right? [Don] It allows you to balance For still cameras, a flash on and you can pump enough light with the sunlit outside. [M] Actually, I think we can Behind Don right now, but we don't have filters And if I just turn the camera right here, do not have filters on them. So you can see they get a lot brighter [D] I see, but you're using it to light [Don] One of the things that I try not to do, If you take the whites detector, then there's no detail at all. You see that a lot in photography from It's really good to at least keep some detail in the brightest part of the region in the clouds. [D] So your sensor is light sensitive and you and the lighter colors. You're saying you never want Is that what you're saying? Do I understand correctly? [Destin's echo in their speaker] &lt;i&gt;I understand correctly?&lt;/i&gt; [Don] Yeah, and I would rather lose detail the blow detail out in the whites. If you blow detail out in the whites, Your eyes tend to get drawn If there's no detail there and it's just that is not as esthetically pleasing Then the shadows are faded into oblivion, That's I prefer to balance the exposure across the range of lighting that's there. [D] So here's what I want to understand. I want to know, You were taking a picture It was a little video. When you shot the Kilimanjaro shot, round porthole window up top. What I didn't understand is where were And were you just having to float Because you have two hands that So how are you doing that? [Destin laughing] [M] That's a great question. I can't show you that right now. We got folks down in that other module. But beneath us, little footholds that you Maybe detail, but I actually have One of our and I still have some of them on board. I have little Ninja socks I could But we get to wear socks everywhere we go and I'm able to grip things. Or down beneath this or there's little that you put your feet into. I was thinking about As I was floating around, and I've been up here long enough now drift off and they just grab things. It's really interesting. My feet just grab things that they know that to stabilize my taking pictures. [Don] Matthew is right. We would be more advanced as human beings [D] You need a monkey tail. So you are using your feet below, And how do you know how close... You're not touching the window, I noticed. So you just have an overall understanding Can one of you grab a camera and the other Can we do that? I'm not sure that you guys are capable [M] Sure. I think we've got It'll say, Look, this is You see them holding the camera, Don readjusted for me. But a lot of times the Earth is moving pick a pretty fast shutter if it's at night and you're trying to take you actually hand track the Earth as it to reduce motion blur. It would look something like this. That's daytime right now, shot would look like in the cupola. When you're doing that, by looking through the viewfinder. When you're looking through and you look to keep the center crosshairs to get rid of the motion blur the fact that we're going 17, A typical night shot we're shooting one over 300 But even that fast shutter speeds, you We take some of that out by very steadily [D] So star trails on Earth, Don, you're going to start to get a little [Don] It depends on your lens. With this 50-millimetre lens, if about a fourth of a second, you could see notable streakiness in the stars. If you want pinpoint stars, with a 50-millimetre lens greater If you intentionally want star streaks, on that and then just do repetitive them as an overlay in Photoshop. [D] Are we talking about [M] Don is talking about on station. A quarter second on this lens, Then at a quarter second, involved, in addition to the space We really like to shoot cities at night to get rid of the orbital motion. But on Earth, depending on the lens, I haven't done in a while, but 10, to worry about star streaks. In fact, when I share a lot of... When I've shared a lot of pictures over I typically write down, Hey, One of the most common questions I get is, a fast shutter speed? The realization of our orbital speed people come to realize it's a lot. We shot a hurricane picture and it turned out to be a great picture. [D] Your camera has been still too long. Can you just somewhere else. It's just the shots. I just need to see some movement. No, no, the video camera. Can you show me something else? I want to see the cupola. [M] Got you. I put it on a mount. To give you a sense of what's going we're in, Don and I are packed and I'm moving my feet around while I'm who's doing bench press beneath me. Somebody is on a bench press, on the bench, and I'm moving my feet what we would call weight lifting, That's how tight a quarters [D] It's on ARED? Are we allowed to know who it [Don] Okay, here we go. You can see now how Earth is... The camera is adjusting to Earth, If I go It's down like this, we have it on auto exposure. Then I come up here and you can But if you keep yourself density filters we've put up, a pretty decent job at 4F stop reduction of the light both inside and out. [M] Let me do this. [D] Yeah, I'm still here. Can you show me the... That looks awesome. Can you show me how the shutters work? Did we lose you? Yeah, can I see a closeup of the handle? Because one of the first conversations you and there's a seal there. [M] There you Yeah, the handle of the top shutter, There's the crank. One of the first things I noticed when I device opening a window or a shutter to the vacuum of space. There's this through that little thing, in there, straight to the space. We're lucky enough just to get to sit Don, you're looking good. [D] You do look good, Don. [Don] Yeah, that's because I put on a clean Destin, just for you. [D] Oh, thanks, Don. What am I looking at there? What spacecraft is that? [M] Here. All right, we'll give you the quick This is our Cignus spacecraft. This brings up so much cool cargo for us and food and Ice cream. In fact, this ice cream and the shirt up with this spacecraft. We reached out and grabbed It came, flew up, it hovered. The spacecraft was That's actually the solar panel and it was hovering right out here. We reached out with the arm and we grabbed the space station right there. Don's ride up to the space station, Soyuz docked our other crew, on the Ume that undocked a couple of weeks station is the Soyuz right there. I'm going to try not to make you sick and then flip straightforward down And way out there on the front of space around Earth is Dragon. That's crew nine. That's the crew that just And on the top side that you We can spin around and we can see some on the Japanese module. And we can see radars and our solar panel and running our whole space station. I'm actually enjoying watching the camera settings here as it goes through. You can see how we point into the darkness and it just has to adjust really But this is one of the cool windows. There's not always a lot of structure out and that gives you the full tour the window look from the Russian segment up to the front of the space station. And then Don gets to sit right [Don] The cupola is less than 6 feet in diameter. If I stretch my arms out, I can reach more than reach the whole It's a pretty tight space. [D] Don, question for you. How do you feel like a young astronaut, with the teaching that you gave him? What do you think about the shot [M] A picture of which picture? The Sprite? [D] Yeah, the Sprite. Thank you. What do you think about What do you think about [Don] Oh, man, that was amazing You could see structure The structure is commensurate What I want to do a nadir view straight down on a Sprite. So both Matthew and I have been shooting nadir with about a 200 millimeter telephoto lens to try to catch We haven't caught one yet, pictures of the tops of dark clouds. But one of these times we're going [M] It's going to be awesome. [D] To be clear, a nadir view is orthogonal out of window seven there. [M] It would be right down that way. We've been shooting straight down shooting out towards the front. We look at the map and we look to be, and we're able to identify where We target thunderstorms that are right have the most energy in them. You want to have all that energy in the Earth, and that creates the most and we target those. Then we're just trying to shoot You can either shoot by maybe setting up but of the camera only half a second. We've been using the remote shutter. The remote shutter has a lock feature, and If you're shooting maybe a 50th or a 60th so we have five milliseconds in between. So you're just shooting. You'll crack out maybe 2,000 or [D] Matt, you're about to leave, man. We've got just a little bit of time here for you is, this is the cupola. This has been your spot for six months What do you feel with that guy right beside you? What are you feeling right now, [M] So many feelings. I'm grateful. Don and I spent a lot of time before gave me lots of great advice from just how going to have or just about And one of the things Don had me do was I would check out these cameras. They let us check out the cameras, So that paid off. So practice paid off up here. But things that I'm feeling are obviously of what to do and how to get there. And then I feel an immense I remember coming in, time six plus months ago and just looking responsibility to take as many pictures as have seen to share with the world. This is an insane view. I don't think I've got there yet. I think I got a lot of ways to go, [Don] And what a mission to have to try to take [M] We've clogged up The KU bandwidth we have, has limited by how many pictures we've [D] When you get back, I'd like to just have your favorite picture was or one of them. But before we leave, that we should recognize, Your dad has a long history Your dad's name is Donald, too, right? He sent me an email about Yeah. [M] No, my dad was a photographer. He was a photographer in the US Air Force local production and direction. And so, Don Pettit has pointed out that I know a little bit about composition and setting up a photo. And I think a lot of that came and looking at some of the photos my dad to quickly pick up a camera, Sometimes up here, you just I remember one time I was up here and the moon looked just right. I ended up pulling out quickly throwing in a card, and shooting the moon over Mike Barrett's I think that intuition for composition it and watching my dad doing it. So thank you to my father for that one. [D] Dons are important. I just want to say I think we're Thank you so much for your time. I just wanted, if I'm honest, in space together because I love it. And anybody that's ever interacted So thank you for your time. And Don, I'm looking forward to seeing [Don] Yeah, like I said, the best is yet to be. [D] I really want to know what that means, [M] Thank you so much for the interview. [D] Thank you, gentlemen. You're great, guys. Thank you, Mission Control. [Mission Control] Destin, that was fabulous. All right. It was a full circle moment for me having and then getting to talk That was really, really cool. These guys are on social media. If you want to follow them and get their in the video description, It's a really cool timeline cleanse You get to see really cool pictures from So go check that out. Also, you can follow NASA @NASAastronauts. That's really cool. I have a thing that I do that I It's called @WhoIsInSpace a guy named Jeff and I, we post in space at any moment in time. So I'll leave that handle You can also check it out When Don went to the space station, people were in orbit around the Earth. That was a big deal. and you could see everybody that's whether they're Russian or Chinese or Canada, US, whatever. It's all up there at I think you'll really enjoy that. There's a Smarter Every Day thing It's a Patreon. I have a Patreon account. And basically what that is, If you enjoy Smarter Every Day and you going for here and you're like, Man, this and not have to worry about For people that like that and they Patreon.com/smartereveryday and they just kick in. I'm grateful to everybody that does that. But one of the cool things we do every sticker team, where I thank people So the way that works is every year, house if you are a supporter at So that was the Supersonic Baseball team. One year we had and last year we had the Exploration team. This year we're working on the And if you are a patron, you can suggest So there's a post on Patreon. Go check it out, and I will physically And the cool thing about it is it's like it the year that you support. So if you've never done it before, in on the sticker team. So thank you to everybody I'm grateful. And yeah, I'm honored that you I put a lot of time into them, So I think that's everything. So feel free to subscribe If not, no big deal. I'm just grateful that you're here. I'm Destin. Have a good one,