Privacy is a buzz word that everybody is using a mobile device, a home camera system...you Unfortunately, most companies are never held the times when they are, that usually means I could spend hours telling you stories of useful for you as I can, I'm boiling it offenders and what you can do about it. A few years ago, an FCC investigation revealed in the US - AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, Sprint and Verizon us, including demographics, websites visited, was willing to pay for it. And this happens everywhere around the world, So when you read statements like "We take very seriously", you ought to take that Whether its your wireless provider or your need to be aware that general data about what to the company you use. And even when you're told that this data let that fool you. If late night host John Oliver can legally "...so we could now take steps to identify who clicked on one of our ads in the capital who may have been inside the capital building ...then it's scary to think what your mobile Using a VPN or virtual private network to companies is one step you can take, but... VPNs land in the number two spot of this list If you visit most any VPN website you'll privacy, some going as far as to include it I've said this many times before and I'll A VPN is a tool, not a cloak of invisibility. Using a VPN to hide internet browsing activity provider is effective, but what you're effectively for blind trust in another. And since most of these VPN companies are a feature that many online influencers present to their privacy claims. The mobile providers I mentioned earlier were their privacy violations. I don't know of any VPN company that has I use a VPN just like I use a mobile phone, and am careful how I use it. I hate to say it, but the credit cards you lives that we assume have some level of privacy Your purchasing habits and history are extremely and these credit card companies know it. It's a lucrative part of their business. Although credit cards aren't exactly promoting an implied feature. You don't want everyone to know how much You can pay with cash, but that's annoying. You can opt out of data sharing with many and they really don't make it easy. If you've been watching All Things Secured also use virtual cards to hide your data from You can learn more about that here or hey, It costs you nothing and in return I promise security online. Speaking of which, did you know that a lot around on the internet? Things like your home address, your cell phone and more are available to any company or person That's one of the reasons I use and you've erases you from the multitude of data brokers They've also made this video possible through hopefully you know me well enought to trust that I use myself. Until recently, this service was available a discount using the code ATS at checkout, to serve an international audience so if that's to see if they cover your country of residence. Dating apps...oooh. Really any app or service where you're given The danger isn't really in the app or service that comes when we think our profile is anonymous. Last year Grindr, a kind of social media and user data and selling it to third parties. Now they've since claimed that they're these companies, there's really no way to Whenever you're using a pseudonym on sites it's best to assume that whatever you say Unfortunately this problem has been exposed and concern. Recently BetterHelp, an online counselling user data with Facebook and Snapchat for purposes We're talking about sensitive mental health issues. I'm glad that the FTC has cracked down on I know in some cases online help is the only If you can get help with a counsellor in-person, always possible. Please be careful when you're dealing with Scrutinize those who request it and make sure it. It's becoming more and more common for people for security, but also inside for monitoring. The assumption of privacy here is pretty strong, were caught uploading videos and even facial that setting was turned off. Personally, I don't trust these security local network where the footage is being recorded not accessible from the internet. Yes, I realize that limits the usefulness it this far as a human race without cameras I don't know why it's suddenly a neccessary Blockchain and cryptocurrencies have long the data-hungry internet world. And there's some truth to that, but there's Public blockchains, such as the one that serves Everything that is done on the chain is recorded may not be tied to specific wallet addresses, espeically if you're using exchange platforms There are privacy-focused projects like Monero under the impression that all crypto in general If you've learned anything from this list, when a company markets it as a feature. And if you disagree with what I've shared as a comment below. Thanks to DeleteMe for their support of All to find out how they can help you build better