Our journey begins in the province of Caserta, rivalling Versailles and continued an Italian Next we encounter some of Italy's ties to of Anzio to an abbey in the mountains of Cassino. Following the trail of the ancient Appian over its ancient ruins and its awe-inspiring Forum, the piazza Navora and the Palatine From one of the most ancient cities in the grounds of Vatican City. We conclude our adventure in the hills of Our excursion to the magnificent Caserta Palace, century, begins by exploring the 4 kilometre-long The park was designed by Caserta architect Carlo, in 1780. Comprised of a system of Baroque water features, An enormous promenade that spans the entire Adjacent and towards the upper end is the style, a reaction to the formal Italianate We cover the last segments of the Park as terminus at the Great Fountain atop of the An aqueduct was built to bring water to this down the hillside. The aqueduct is 38-kilometres long and runs and other features fully operational. The water first cascades 150 meters into the Here, we find famous sculptures in the form Actaeon, which depicts the hero transformed to pieces, a penalty for gazing at Diana as King Charles III wanted an estate to rival Although he never resided at Caserta, the Centre deemed the &quot;swan song of the spectacular Caserta provided assembly for its king, the The 1200-room palace is rectangular with four We travel North up the coast to the fishing Situated on the Lazio coast, the port was forces in World War II. The plan was to drive through to Rome, just forces. The ensuing battle left Anzio in ruins. However, after the war much of the town was town character. And set back from the coast in the nearby the scale of fighting that took place from This is the Sicily-Rome American Cemetery. Rich in art, architecture and landscaping, 30 hectares. Nearly 7900 fallen American troops are buried Most of the casualties were sustained during soldiers died in the landings of Salerno and We continue on to Cassino, at the southern And it's here we catch the dramatic sight Since its inception in the 6th century, it attacked, pillaged or ruined by natural disaster. During World War II the German forces used American led air-raids almost completely destroyed campaign. The abbey, originally built by St. Benedict its ancient architectural form, and finally With relics from St. Benedict and St. Scholastica, indulge themselves in its historical importance Our journey now takes us to the town of Frascati, of Papal extravagance... Villa Aldobrandini. Set facing Rome, 20 kilometres away, this of the church's power and authority. In 1600, Pope Clement VIII, a member of the the property to his nephew, a cardinal. The highly ornate villa and grounds were constructed Popes attempted to outdo their predecessors reflected their wealth and power. This estate served a ceremonial function for residence. During the second World War, there was significant over half of the town. Today it remains an architectural treasure The Appian Way was once the most strategic It's also the site of the crucifixion of the along this route. It leads us to the eternal city and capital During his journey to Italy, German novelist in Rome is it possible to understand Rome.&quot; We're now over the heart of the Italian capital city that has influenced the world politically And it's importance lives on to this day as or so catholics. The splendour of Rome's ancient treasures From the imposing Trajan's Column, to the over two millennia. They nestle effortlessly amongst newer landmarks, One of the best preserved structures is the the Gods of ancient Rome. And nearby is Piazza Navona, arguably Rome's Once a fortified city, the original walls They date back to the third century, erected against German invaders. Two-thirds remain intact and well-preserved, until the 19th century. There were 18 grand gates, such as this one, Flanked by two semi-circular towers, it was The wall incorporated many existing structures 12 BC as a tomb for Caius Cestius. At the southeastern part of the ancient district Completed in 217 AD, and covering over 11 Romans for over 300 years. The complex was able to accommodate up to but a library, a gymnasium, galleries, restaurants Today, it hosts the Rome Opera company during of the three tenors in 1990. We arrive in the heart of the city at the building constructed in the Roman Empire. Despite its decay, it remains a remarkable The amphitheatre held 50,000 spectators who arrangements that reflected the hierarchies Below ground were rooms that contained mechanical could be lifted to appear centre stage. Aiming to increase their popularity, the Emperors and animals or simply between gladiators themselves. It was made of concrete and stone yet originally into the construction of St. Peter's Basilica In the present day, visitors are allowed to in 2010, the subterranean passageways were The site is still used ceremoniously by the point for the torchlit procession led by the Although dwarfed in size by its neighbour, significance. One of three remaining imperial triumphal victory in a 4th century Civil War. Ironically, the decorations aren't as well-preserved a symbol for the eventual fall of the Roman We shift from the entertainment hub to the For over 1000 years, this rectangular plaza processions. The complex of ancient ruins includes government giving visitors some idea of the Forum's original Perhaps no landmark in the Forum remains as Severus. Erected in 203 AD to commemorate the Emperor's had a flight of stairs running through the The arch became property of a church in the as the Colosseum, its parts were protected According to legend, Rome's founding dates and Remus settled on this site, marking the Today, the Palatine Hill is an open-air museum such as the Palace of Septimus Severus. During the Republican era, the top of the area for the rich and powerful, not least Augustus, Cicero and Marc Antony all resided One of Rome's modern landmarks is the 18th to a 16th century French church. This symmetrical and elegant structure has steps, and is the widest staircase in Europe. Nearby is the oval-shaped square, Piazza del Tourists flock to see the ancient Egyptian del Popolo that made an impression upon those The large gate welcomed pilgrims entering Rome to the Adriatic coast. Another example of the opulent palaces built Borghese. Situated on the outskirts of Rome at the time who was the nephew of Pope Paul V, and to of paintings, sculptures and antiquities. Erected during the late renaissance in a classical in 1902 Heading toward Vatican City, we stop first that once stood as a refuge for Popes facing Originally a mausoleum, the castle was fortified it into a Papal fortress and luxurious residence. Occupying less than half a square kilometre City. It's the world's smallest country and spiritual St. Peter's Basilica was built on Vatican twelve apostles and considered the first Pope. He died as a martyr and was buried on the Construction of the present buildings commenced The greatest Italian architects of the era and it was finally re-consecrated in 1626. Although millions flock to Vatican City each Arguably the best panorama of the Eternal caps the oculus atop the ribbed vault of St. A masterful collaboration of between Bramante diameter of 42 meters and rests on four huge that features 16 windows. At a height of 136 metres, this crowning piece Such a magnificent and imposing structure a grandiose esplanade to welcome those taking The Baroque-style piazza was designed by Bernini The elliptical circus that slopes towards by massive colonnades symbolising the Church's Bernini also sculpted the 140 statues of saints colonnade. Historian Banister Fletcher referred to the the greatest of all churches in Christendom.&quot; As we prepare to leave Rome, we capture yet city in the form of a hot air balloon, tethered Borghese gardens. The vista is our last look at the Italian toward Tivoli. We take a slight detour, southeast of Rome, Built into the cliff on Mount Taleo, is this the cave, deemed the Sacro Speco, where St. before organizing his first monastic community Most of the monastery's Gothic style buildings hundreds of years after St. Benedict's lifetime. The monastery is still active, and open for And tucked away is an inconspicuous entrance This is the portal for the chapel that contains his hermitage in 500 AD. Benedict along with his twin sister, St. Scholastica, 13 monasteries and nunneries between them two decades in service. Resting among cypress and olive trees in the Villa Adriana, a great complex built as a early 2nd century. Excavations began in the 16th century, revealing The grounds cover a vast area of 120 hectares, travels to Greece and Egypt... ...like the Pecile, this piazza with a central Poikile. In total there were over 30 buildings, including and living quarters. The most ambitious creation was Canopus, a delta near Alexandria. Designers crafted a canal over 100 metres Perhaps Hadrian's favourite refuge was the which contained a small house, an atrium, Surrounded by columns in a classic ionic style, where Hadrian withdrew to indulge himself Our final destination brings us to another 17th century villas, in the hills that surround These are the magnificent water gardens of Tourists marvel at the clever irrigation which integrated harmoniously into the natural sloping Very few gardens can compare to the innovation perhaps a reason why European gardens, from the estate's landscaping, such as this wall Cardinal Ippolito d'Este built the villa following his own words, a garden suitable for &quot;one century.&quot; The result were gardens that blended ancient an Italian oasis to be treasured for centuries. A perfect place... to end this journey.