&gt;&gt; JEFF FOXWORTHY: How are ya? and I have to start out with an apology to because I always had a preconceived notion And I thought, man, it's one of those places line and behave just right. with a bunch of kids from Liberty, I'm sorry, you guys are in for the adventure and I was totally wrong about you. This is one cool place up here. I asked them when they wanted me to speak I said, what do you want me to talk about? I'm like, I can handle that. That's cool that you can actually come to Because I think that's one of the attributes I mean, what parent doesn't like to see their I did learn, because I haven't been here since I did learn that the official alarm clock a bulldozer going "beep, beep, beep, beep." hotel window does not have quiet time in the He gets after it early. like this. than a Fifth Grader.&quot; part of doing that show? cards with the answers on it But I think people think, because I hosted And I'm like, I knew none of that stuff. We had a lady go on one day. grammar question. And she said, &quot;Oh, I remember there were homonyms, She said, &quot;I can't remember the difference Can you use it in a sentence?&quot; I know nothing; In fact, when I started hosting that show, I didn't know, and it was like the never-ending Like, I don't know how they know how long at a new place. &quot;All right, Ed. Give his girlfriend a free tee shirt.&quot; to him. in my mouth. day, have you? Yeah, let me think. I don't know how women can lie down on the hand in the top of their pants. See, men have a sleep button located right We put our hand on that button and [snores]. bus driver gets off. That'll give you a headache, okay. door wide open, but chains the 25-cent ink And why does the drive-up banking window have They do! I don't know why the people with the worst they talk. I don't know; Can I tell you something? I can only hold my breath for 30 seconds. or a mint. Oh, no thanks. Yeah, I can see where you wouldn't prefer on right now. anymore without dressing like Lance Armstrong Does anyone remember when you could ride a Not anymore. And it's not just young athletic people. like the Michelin Man in a wet suit, and they Who's sponsoring you, pop? Pedal on dough boy; pedal on! I don't know why only rednecks are seeing And here's the thing. off the top. in their yard. she had called Goodwill, and they had come trailer. But let's just say for a minute that aliens but they didn't want people to know they were It would make sense that they only revealed Because, A, we usually live out in the country, B, we have no credibility with the media. UCLA if he saw one and said, &quot;They appeared enriched environment whose primary respiratory epidermis.&quot; &quot;It looked like a giant booger with real skinny I don't know why a dog can eat his own vomit, for hours, but if he eats half a candy bar I don't know why in 2017 there's still certain Yeah! Like, if there's a noise in the house in the it out? You never see this. See what that noise was. No, if there's a noise in the house in the it out in his underwear carrying a baseball because that is the official uniform of suspicious I don't know what we're hoping to find. with a ball. because my dad always wore those gigantic in the front. Shut the gap! Take my wallet; I don't know why every time I get great tickets who has to sing every single song at the top A couple years ago I lived in Atlanta. My wife wanted to go. Well, my mother-in-law wanted to go. My mother-in-law has a hearing aid that she look good-- you a hearing aid. in, because if she doesn't wear it, she talks One night we're at the movie theater standing My mother-in-law tapped me and said, &quot;Don't as a bat.&quot; One, you are embarrassed to death. that, you've got to look! Turn around, this guy is glaring at me. but he was glaring at somebody. So, we go to Simon and Garfunkel. She doesn't have her hearing aid in. to none of them. Are you kidding me? Grease your pine? I don't know why cats never throw up in the Cats wait until you are lying in bed almost And then, from somewhere in your home you Remind me to put my slippers on in the morning. if you find that with your bare foot, you Because you are awake and looking for a cat. She has to clean it up every time. I have. make the same noise that the cat makes--[throw See, and I think the thing that made &quot;Are was that the kids were smarter than doctors And that's your generation. smartest generation that's ever been on this And I could, as a dad, I could see it early. five, and she wanted a computer for her fifth A computer! can use it. The little paddle with the rubber band and brain builder. But everything changed with your generation. It was like when my girls were growing up, had inspected it to make sure there was no with that toy. My parents gave me a wood burning kit. that? degrees! our dogs and cats didn't have a little tag knew who they belonged to. right there. My parents were too lazy to dig a hole in it in the hole. above this high, the legs would go, whoosh! on our swing set. darts--somebody had...? with a lawn dart. They just came in box of eight. throw them straight up in the air. getting coloring books for Christmas for the And to this day, my mom gets upset if she But when I was a child, she bought me model I'm in my room trying to build models, and of a new tour. my dad would get us firecrackers to blow them And we knew they were safe, because we had from a man that had three fingers--not on That's a good firecracker right there. This guy can't operate a Bic lighter, but I remember when my girls were little I had washing detergent. set. Tell him I said stop. Better yet, you get on the mini bikes and But it all changed, just in a generation. My daughters growing up had a little white His name was Herman. out a lot. She said, you know I think we need to take I said, baby, Herman cost five bucks. in the woods. And she started getting mad at me! When I was growing up, there was no chance see the inside of a veterinarian's office. You know what happened to our pets? I remember one time my brother and I found And that dog barked all night long for the And then, on the fourth day, while we were We had a cat that started clawing my mother's she ran away! But my wife if like, oh no. He's our responsibility. And she did. And 65 dollars later, Herman's hair is still And I said, 65 bucks? I said when your medical bills are 13 times cheap, or you are really, really sick. Let's say your grandmother went to the hospital million dollars to make her well. tell me there is not a chance we'd be calling &quot;Girls, sit down. Memaw has run away.&quot; at it, and then they feel bad about laughing And it's funny with the technology, because about it. She said, you know, technology wise, we're 50s. can't write. you need to study. something all you have to do is Google it. I mean, when I was growing up, if you were guy in? That was it. Somebody goes what was that guy in? the janitor on Joey! But I try to tell my daughters, and I try you can't Google. There's things you only learn through life I call them the facts of life, things you Like this: the bathroom in an emergency situation, it in transit in the effort to save a couple Because the muscles that guard the floodgates to abandon their post. are nullified by the hour and a half you spend And you only learn that the hard way. Out of all the cereals, Captain Crunch is Here's what I'm talking about. on, and you will rip the roof of your mouth You wait too long, and the Captain will put rid of. Fact of life: or you can be on time. Fact of life: becomes. baby food out of organic vegetables they're Yeah, by the time that fourth kid rolls around, your toddler pull a year-old Milk Dud from Pick the cat hair off of it before you put Fact of life: come up behind that old truck that's got like of it, and they're held together by two ratty every one of us prays the same prayer. until after I get around this guy. but I need to get around. Flying on an airplane makes you gassy. Nobody talks about this. suitcase and walk to baggage claim popping [flatulence sounds] the only one doing it or not. this crowd. Who is that? Fact of life: have answers to. a text one day. He was in a bad wreck." I found my wife. 'please pray for Tom. She said, "Was he driving?" I just got a text that said, 'please pray He was in a bad wreck.'" car with him?" I just got a text that said 'please pray He was in a bad wreck.'" car hurt too?" I just got a text that said 'please pray He was in a bad wreck.'" I said, "I don't know. for Tommy. She said, "What hospital did they take him I said, "I don't know. for Tommy. She said, "You don't know anything! I said, "I know you need to pray for Tom. God bless you. You're awesome. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Come on; Let him know you appreciate him! Have a seat real quick. in the world we would invite Jeff Foxworthy part of Global Focus Week. and his daughter, Jordan--went with us this Humanitarian work is nothing new for Jeff. it's a room even bigger than this, and every with cancer, or another third-world project Or whether it's the homeless shelter that &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: For ten years, every Tuesday It started with me and twelve homeless guys. guys every Tuesday morning.&quot; &gt;&gt; NASSER: Every Tuesday morning. off your time with those guys. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: You know what I love? they're authentic. pretends they've got it going on. my grandmother's life savings to buy crack. The cross covers that too, so come on in. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Exactly right. this, but Jordan actually works at that homeless over to just helping people. end of your charity, you let us use your old record a record called &quot;Glory Revealed&quot; which &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Yeah, with Mac Powell? &gt;&gt; NASSER: And you let us just use it for You've always been that kind of a giver. that is such a big passion for you. talk about our trip in Rwanda together. &gt;&gt; VIDEO- FOXWORTHY: All right, so David and this week. God does it connects dots. He takes part of the body there that never And then, when they come together something &gt;&gt; NASSER: Yeah, absolutely. here we are in the middle of Africa, and I would be here with a redneck from Georgia. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Well, the redneck from Georgia out with the Iranian refugee in Rwanda either. it's not only, do we tolerate each other. I mean, it blossoms into something I never &gt;&gt; NASSER: Yeah, it's just the power of the The uniting work of the Gospel. together to partner, to do together what we And that's why we're here. a difference in the great nation of Rwanda. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: And you find out, the more you I mean, we both love Jesus. they've been amazing this week over here in &gt;&gt; NASSER: Absolutely, your daughter Jordan I've learned a lot from her, because she's &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Yeah, all over the world. Everybody loves Rudy. the hearts of these children here. you know... flourish in this environment. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Totally. greatest bond is that we both love Jesus Christ &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Yeah, and we're in for the adventure &gt;&gt; NASSER: Right. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: And that, you know, is I don't He does. me today. Open up something new, and I think that's giving the students a chance to be part of in working with Compassion. working with them for 10 or 12 years, is they way, they love on people that the world's Jesus would be doing. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Exactly. Compassion as our primary partner this year us a vehicle where our students can sponsor Talking about, just an unlikely partnership all of a sudden drops in in the middle of And for a little more than a dollar a day empowers the local church in that village to really make a difference. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: So, both of our kids are college What would you say to the college students like sponsorship at that age as opposed to &gt;&gt; NASSER: Absolutely, Jeff. kids who are in college, that this generation just sending a dollar a day halfway across to good work in Guatemala. of Jesus. They want to get out of that one-dimensional get into a pen pal relationship. the child that they're sponsoring- &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: And see where they live, and And, in a much earlier age than you and I more meaningful. you don't get a practice lap. It's not like you can do it once and go, alright. So, why not, from the get go make it...? I give you life to the full. You are creating a relationship, that through decades long. be tied into the hopes and dreams of somebody And they're tied into your life. I never saw another important relationship every month. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Yeah, so through this Compassion you're coming alongside of a family-- but because the Gospel calls us to love the And, honestly, one of the funnest parts of what we could never do alone. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Amen! &gt;&gt; NASSER: Before we get into it, I did want They probably were like, wow, why was he limping? You came with a broken ankle. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: I broke my ankle a week before &gt;&gt; NASSER: And when we heard that, we thought, But then, you didn't, and I thought that was &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: No, because, my daughter Jordan Because if Jordan could just make her life what she would do. And she had been years before, and she's like, &gt;&gt; NASSER: She's been a lot of times to Africa, &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Yeah. Jordan was 14, and we went to work over in So, that was, what, 12 years ago? &gt;&gt; NASSER: Since then, ten times, Jordan, &gt;&gt; JORDAN FOXWORTHY: Something like that. &gt;&gt; NASSER: That's incredible. kind of work. &gt;&gt; JORDAN: Yeah, so our first trip I was 14, traveled before. to say the least. taking their children from my church and was was doing there. girls, So, you know, they were real shy. with them, because they were so shy. saw them. sponsorship process, these girls had grown They were confident. us to meet their friends. years of being sponsored was absolutely amazing. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: They had become like little So, it was really cool. It wasn't just sending money. 12 years, grown up with us. What are you studying? And it's a life-changing relationship for And that's what Jordan and I learned early. You have the power to do that, to breathe somebody. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Jordan, you got to meet your sponsor Tell us about that. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Well, our sponsored child lived I'm like, why couldn't they live-? &gt;&gt; JORDAN: That's the footage of him with We made it, so that was good. She's precious, and it was really cool. her mother and learn about their life. a few years before. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: It was a mom raising three daughters But the fact, what Becky was getting in school, family. &gt;&gt; NASSER: That's one of the things people When you sponsor a child, that child is really Is that right? &gt;&gt; JAROD BROWN: Yeah, that's right. that that works, family, and yet what's amazing is that child That church is reaching out to that entire Because everything Compassion does is through So, those pastors that we work with, they They know their community, so they know what that way. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: So, Mr. Rockstar Rudy... What is it about your generation that is drawn Because when I think about sponsorship, I It's something old people, we did. getting involved in this, I'm like, man, that What is it about this that appeals to your &gt;&gt; RUDY NASSER: Yes, sir. be part of something bigger. once we're gone. ask ourselves, like I'm not sure if I'm ready Or I'm not sure if I'm financially stable And one thing you have to remember is these They were never ready to be in poverty. if we're ready or not. God tells us that we need to go and help out that are in need. Bible it says, &quot;To obey is better than to And I just want to be obedient, and I want If you're not already helping those who are And what better way to start than today by &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: I was telling Rudy at dinner of people that grew up during World War II And I said, actually, you guys have the potential To take the message of Jesus modifier and to check off all the boxes as but to literally be the hands and feet of That when people look at the work that you You look like him. that ever lived, and what a marvelous opportunity &gt;&gt; NASSER: Jarod, you sit at the table with so far in your date, your history, that over have been supported, taken care of, found Compassion International. &gt;&gt; BROWN: 1.8 million &gt;&gt; NASSER: 1.8 children in- &gt;&gt; BROWN: 25 countries, 1.8 million, and we the world that do that work with us. &gt;&gt; NASSER: You do all the work you do through and so, this is not social work but Gospel Because God calls us to so much more than &gt;&gt; BROWN: That's right. &gt;&gt; NASSER: We can feed somebody, meet their we really haven't set them free. &gt;&gt; BROWN: We believe it's the three immediate Your physical--you said the physical, the Physical, the education side of things, and strips dignity. from America. from America, you have an identity. You are loved by Jesus. need to be met. and meet that physical need for that child. of them needing Jesus. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Yeah, it was interesting when we And you brought the Foxworthy family to the You said they're very passionate about sponsorship. They're like a perfect partner with Liberty, They kind of get what you're about, because their influence to love their neighbor, to And then you were like, I want to make sure And Jordan's coming along. from Guatemala as a kid, and so he knows what adoption. &gt;&gt; BROWN: It was one of the most beautiful I've been on a lot of trips, but to see Rudy... I've known Rudy a long time. and bring him in. They just think that because he looks like &gt;&gt; NASSER: We're from separate parts of the &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: Rudy's better looking. &gt;&gt; BROWN: There you go; But the beauty- &gt;&gt; NASSER: People always say... hey, I know who your dad is, to which- &gt;&gt; RUDY: I'd love to know him too. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Rudy's always like, well, my dad's &gt;&gt; RUDY: I know you. &gt;&gt; NASSER: I love you. &gt;&gt; BROWN: There you go. with that? because Rudy, you understand those kids. I mean, there was just reckless abandonment. to see Rudy. You guys are going to go do your thing. It was like, where's Rudy? where Rudy was. He was Jesus to them in that moment, because And what I want for you guys as students is, You were orphaned, and Jesus has brought you You have the same opportunity to be those &gt;&gt; NASSER: Yeah, Jordan, could you speak into--and Compassion and their stewardship with Gods I know a lot of times, Rudy was like, Dad, I just want to make sure it's to legit resources. the most amount of bang for the buck. and I put it in, I want to make sure that You've seen it ten times being over there. and bolts? money actually goes to the field to the family &gt;&gt; BROWN: So currently, right now, it's 82.4%. dollars that you give every month that goes to a pot. And then, obviously, the rest is going to So, it's 82.4%. &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: And you know, but it even goes Because you guys do such a beautiful job. really important to these kids is relationships. Kenya where our child would take us to see a tin box, and every letter you had ever written saved every letter and every picture. You make it so easy to communicate with your You can do it from your computer. You don't have to sit down and write these But if you think about sponsorship, if you it. Because when Jesus said follow me, what He I believe that you can look and act like me. And that's what the important thing here is &gt;&gt; JORDAN: And speaking into the legitimacy with them, we went out to a really rural project, there. Any child, you can name them, they go, oh. Here's how they've grown physically. And they were tracking their success. I was amazed by that, that they have such... so vast. where they don't just sponsor these kids; And the people from the local churches pour And when we pour into them with the local &gt;&gt; RUDY: Really quick, just to echo what Mr. This is, what you're signing up for, is a going to make every month. this child. going to help them just see their full potential. me being an orphan, and I remember there were And how much it would've helped just knowing about me and that loves me, and thinks that And, like he said, if you're not willing to and forth and help them grow, And the flip side, they're going to help you They're going to have a relationship with &gt;&gt; BROWN: We talked about this yesterday, had the chance to share this with, but there's from our program of Compassion. him. in a while, and told him he was a mistake. aborted you. in the Dominican Republic. his sponsor. And that letter, it said to him, Jonathan, you. was sponsoring him. you, that I love you, and that you matter. I'll write to you again later. said happy birthday. us. happy birthday, because my family didn't wish So, he got that, and he said so many people Does the relationship really matter? This rocked my world as someone who works Let me just put this before you. turned the world upside-down. in a plastic bag. letters. And so, it is a massive relationship, and &gt;&gt; FOXWORTHY: It's life-giving. to see sponsored kids that have grown up meet It's one of the most emotional things you've They literally collapse to the floor in tears I mean, it's... somebody. to the full. That's why you're here, man. It's Jesus saying, yeah, come so you'll have This is what life to the full is, and it's in everything. He's always bolder. of, and that's the kind of relationship this &gt;&gt; NASSER: It's biblical, you know? right? that we would care for the widow, the orphan, It's God's call that, hey, I was hungry; I was naked; There was a need in my life. It's the good Samaritan story. It's Jesus walking in in darkness and bringing the world. And before he tells her go and sin no more, a relationship and sits with her. greatest model of what it looks like to love Don't tell them you've got to clean up your Love them just where they are, and then begin And we keep saying that word relationship it's so much easier to not get involved if You know, I could say today--this is true. die of starvation, and that's the truth about And it becomes just a number. I could've said 36 million. they become real people, until it becomes in Guatemala or whether in Rwanda--somebody And because they matter to God, they matter And when you begin a relationship... For me, Rudy, we've grown up with Danny on The first picture of Danny, he was this big. The kid was so tall, and at Christmas time you know? I would ask you, do you want a goat? You know, but Danny wanted one because it He would not only have the goat, but he would his family. We'd get pictures. a horse or a dog, but we like it. artist as he grew older. the unprecedented access. child. You have 1.8 million in over 20 countries close to this, right? to do with us in the sponsorship thing that &gt;&gt; BROWN: Yeah, just quick with... We've never had any school ever say that they entire nation. a college actually was two years ago from So, Liberty actually did that. not just to sponsor--which one, will shape If you sponsor the 3,200 kids that are available That means more kids get to come into the But that also means that you might be investing Or you might be investing in the next Liberty You might have the person that you sponsor to come, They get to come to Liberty, then. And then there's all the things that we're national soccer team, and with the government, &gt;&gt; NASSER: The Daystar school that we've always &gt;&gt; BROWN: That's right. and sponsorship actually provides for them So, this is something that we've never looked this that would shape a nation? &gt;&gt; NASSER: So, can we just get practical now &gt;&gt; BROWN: I'd love for you right now... you had this packet. I would love for everyone just to grab that, This is the G5 packet. So, you can grab that. sleeve, and there's a pen in there as well So, all that you're going to have to do... out- &gt;&gt; NASSER: Can I interrupt? by a child and a family who was willing to It's pretty humbling for a father to say I'm have his picture taken to represent, hey, And so, I think the first step... &gt;&gt; BROWN: So, your first step today would This portion here on the front, you would your address, your email, your phone number. child. you're saying, yeah. I'm going to invest in a child. The back of the card is the commitment. give 38 dollars a month to invest in this So, you would fill out that form. Step two then, for you to be able to see who in to the number 83393. that is on your packet. So, if you were to text into that number 83393, to meet your child from Rwanda right there &gt;&gt; NASSER: Jarod, if a young lady here wants gets another young girl that she's sponsoring, &gt;&gt; BROWN: It's a boy? that would come in on your phone. again, and if you get a girl from there, you'll And on your phone, you now have--let's say You have Princess right? You would be able to text that in, and in buckets pass. possible, so that way, once you get done here, So, what you would do, is you fill out the That's step one. Step two, you'll text in. start to pass. little tag piece here that has the instruction You tear this off and keep this, because we're will tell you. buckets are passed, you would drop this in. that relationship. Please, please don't text in and don't turn the day, we're going to have to go in and a form, so we can re-release that child to So... &gt;&gt; NASSER: Yeah, this is a pretty audacious Jarod did mention, the record that we're wanting today is literally breaking our own record It's such a reminder to me when people think... said, &quot;How is Liberty so audacious?&quot; Becki, on the drive in, tells Jerry, we're we're sponsoring five. give to God; And it's modeled from up down. do this today--not everybody here is called Everybody can pray for a child, but if God Get the information, and then we do have a We have this tee-shirt for you when you turn If you show this, you'll get the tee shirt But, obviously, you're not doing it for the You're doing it, because Christ compels us. out. today. &gt;&gt; BROWN: It is. well. number 24502, and you're going to text the So, again, if you're online watching right will lead you through instructions on how &gt;&gt; NASSER: So, our MKs, our 260 missionary these buckets. filling this out, I think you take the packet. and you keep it. it in to the bucket. &gt;&gt; BROWN: That's right, this entire thing, &gt;&gt; NASSER: And then, in a few weeks or in &gt;&gt; BROWN: In about a week or maybe a little packet and find out everything about that You get your online account to then be able really start to engage with that child. &gt;&gt; NASSER: But they keep this, and then they &gt;&gt; BROWN: That's right. So yep, step one is filling out the form. And then, step three will be putting this So, our goal was to be done around 11:50, this moment, and then, if you'll go ahead we'll start the process of letting the buckets Let's do this for the prayer, if... by the Holy Spirit to do this. Some of you are called to give your talents If you sense that the Holy Spirit's saying Or maybe two of you friends want to do it Just, symbolically, get your phone, and let's I want to see what the Lord is prompting. collective of what it would look like if one, at the massive, massive, massive task before who have never heard of Liberty, have never heard of Jeff Foxworthy, today. the bridge to do that. you just kind of raise it up? Do you see what happens, collectively, when And one by one, we just begin to do this together. Let me pray for the offering. Father, thank You. orphans, a bunch of used-to-be, God, beggars living water. than meeting temporary needs; Thank You that children and their families Savior. loves them when we don't care about the fact pains. I thank You, Lord, for the chance that we've We don't have to do this; It's a privilege and a gift. World Vision and Holt International--other who do child sponsorship like Sozo. they do Gospel work. For the many students in this room already I pray that today they felt affirmed for what And Lord, I pray for the children who are Spring Break, because that relationship started. and a physical hug, and a day of kicking a bend in a few months. that will mark the life of a child forever. Hey, the buckets are going to go around, and As they go around, if you sense that you want on to the perforated edge, all right? We've asked Compassion to be around and available If you would hang on just a second, guys. Let's just wait one more minute until the And if it goes by your area already, then and then you can slip out. a chance to be able to drop the bucket in That's awesome. thank the Foxworthy family for being here? You're awesome. Jarod, thanks for letting us do this with &gt;&gt; BROWN: Thank you, man. Thank you. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Anything we forgot here, before &gt;&gt; BROWN: No, we're good. &gt;&gt; NASSER: Hey, take that little thing. And God bless you guys. all right, on your way out?