Hey, Phil Plait here and this is Crash Course that nearly all the information we have about how does that light get made? What can it And honestly, what is light? Here's a hint. Light is a wave. It took centuries of thought also figure out that, at its most basic, light similar to waves of water in the ocean. Except electric and magnetic fields. Literally--light two fields, intertwined. That's why we call of this are very complex, but we can make light just from thinking of it as a wave. If you're floating in the ocean, you'll then back up again when the next wave rolls wave is called the wavelength. Since light this may be its single most important feature. That's Light with a shorter wavelength has more energy, energy. And our eyes have a really convenient What you think of as the color violet is actually Red light has a longer wavelength, about twice All the colors in between--orange, yellow, This spread of colors, wavelengths, is called Over millions of years, our eyes have evolved most strongly. Well, that makes sense; that kind of light visible light. But that's just the narrowest sampling of If light has a slightly shorter wavelength to us, but it's still real. We call that than that fall into the X-ray part of the wavelengths of all are called gamma rays. At the other end, light with slightly longer see is called infrared light. Light waves those with the longest wavelengths of all don't really have hard and fast definitions; But together, we call all of these different And remember, energy goes up when the wavelength energy than violet, X-rays have a higher energy energy of all. Infrared light has lower energy radio waves have the lowest energy. When you look at the whole EM spectrum, you'll a teeny little sliver of it. Most of the Universe build different kinds of telescopes -- to detect. They let us see a lot of stuff So you might be asking: how is light made? matter is that when you heat it up it gains energy. Since light is energy, one way to Another important property of matter is that on its temperature. An object that's hotter a shorter wavelength. Cooler objects give You may have seen this in action. Heat up then yellow as it gets hotter. The color, the wavelength, Astronomers use a shorthand for this. We say and light with a longer wavelength is "redder". mean more blue or more red, just that the So in this lingo, ultraviolet light is bluer So objects that are more energetic, that have a redder objects. This rule of thumb works really stars. Even humans! You emit light, but it's in the There are less dense objects in space, too, is different. To understand that, we have to zoom in on And to understand that, we need to take a are the building blocks of matter. In general, Protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons a negative charge, and neutrons are neutral. than electrons, and occupy the centers of whiz around the nucleus, their negative charge The type of atom depends on how many protons helium two, lithium three, and so on up the It's common to think of the electron as the Sun, but that's not really the case. involves pretty hairy quantum mechanics, but occupy very specific volumes of space around the Think of these like stairs on a staircase, walk up the stairs, you have to use energy up a whole step at a time; if you don't can't move. You can be on the first step, the first-and-a-halfths step. There isn't Electrons are the same way. They whiz around energy. If you give them an additional precise next energy level, the next step, but if you give The opposite is true as well; electrons can step, and then give off energy when they jump the same amount needed to get them How do they get this energy? Light! If light hitting the atom has just the right amount up. It can also jump down and emit light at two steps, or three, or whatever, but it needs But as I said earlier, energy and wavelength to color. So when an electron jumps up or down, Not only that, but the steps are different it's like different atoms are different the steps. So when an electron jumps down energy, a different color of light, than an electron And this, THIS, is the key to the Universe. of light, if we can measure that light, in is made of, even if we can't touch it. Even if Can you tell the difference between these shade of red. Your eye probably can't tell This is a device that can precisely measure distinguish light emitted by a hydrogen atom one of these spectrometers up to a telescope, you can In the case of thin gas clouds in space, the bumping into one another. The atoms emit those them. Unlike dense stars, the color of the thinner gas And this is how we learned what the Universe are mostly hydrogen, with some helium and in its atmosphere, Venus carbon dioxide. Everything like cakes at a bakery. With spectroscopy, But wait! There's more. You're probably familiar with the Doppler goes by. In sound, the wavelength defines shorter wavelengths, and lower tones ("eeeee") headed toward you, the sound waves get compressed, you, the pitch drops because the wavelengths The same thing happens with light. If an object from the source gets compressed, shorter. away, the wavelength gets longer, and it's by measuring that shift we can tell if an Here's a teaser: This becomes super important Spoiler alert: The Universe is expanding, and it's And that's still not the end of it. With if an object is spinning and how fast, whether is, and even how massive and dense an object of astronomical objects can be found just Almost everything we know about the Universe Pictures of astronomical objects show us their history. But with spectra, we can examine Today you learned that light is a form of and color. Spectroscopy allows us to analyze density, spin, motion, and chemical composition. Crash Course is produced in association with for even more awesome videos. This episode was edited by Blake de Pastino, and our consultant Nicholas Jenkins, the script supervisor and was Michael Aranda, and the graphics team