True Life Beyond Ego 20 August 2023 [Questioner] Thank you. If you allow, I would like to leave this whole identity. [Mooji] OK. Anyone else can join. It works like that, actually. [M.] If you feel If you have a sense of what that means for you. Maybe I'll ask you what it means for you. [Q.] I see that [M.] Can be lived, what? [Mooji] Longer? Oh. I'm not hearing some things. But to live any longer, [Q.] Any kind of identity. [Mooji] So, supposing you'd have no.... if this is what you really say, that is doesn't work, actually. That life lived merely at the, under the government it doesn't work for you! If you've come to see that ... Because that's a very, very rare thing that the place of my person is not working. Because they say we are How many will say this? I don't know. Even if you hit rock bottom, who is saying like that, It's not, 'Oh, life doesn't work'. No, it doesn't work with this one in charge. Do you hear? What is he saying? Then, supposing there was no external help already ... Because life itself must have initiated this stage in your maturity, to come to a place, that living by ego ... 'Yes, of course, biologically I can go on, but in terms of joy and peace, none of that is paying off, living from the position of personal identity.' So I would say, life itself, by God's grace, has assisted you to come to that level, so it cannot leave you alone. So, if no one else was to come in would you be lost? [M.] You did not come to that merely ... It's not the ego that came to the realisation, 'You know what, We need help.' Is it the mind that is saying that? So something else, that's saying, No matter how much I try to imagine, and to ... Somehow, it doesn't work, &quot;I'm doing really good.&quot; I see people on the street, I smile, I say, &quot;I'm good!&quot; He's saying that. So where to go from here? If you are approaching the God of existence, the Lord has prepared you He says, 'OK, you've tried it your way. What way would this be, now? [Mooji] You see, for me, when I listen to you, I say, wow, that is very, very ... You're on the edge Don't lapse back. Don't fall back into something. [M.] So, what are you asking? [M.] What? [Mooji] Total freedom. So, if all the things you mention OK, anyone can do this, just right now, in this moment, Without expecting, leave all of that aside. Just leave all of this, then, with me. Leave this, all the concerns about ... Is it possible? [M.] Don't be carrying this around. Don't carry your bag of troubles around. Last week, I think you listened to a satsang, in which I say, Suppose God set a basket, this is my basket, Whatever it may be: identity crises; everything. [Mooji] Is it possible that it's possible? [Mooji] Then do it. [M.] Meaning leave everything, then. We're not going to describe what particular problems If I say, put it all in ... But I need someone who will really do it. Because we are skilled with words, and with our tongue we say things, but we have not actually fulfilled them inside our heart. Could you do it, then? It's possible. Suppose you have no money. and say, All I need ... That will sort my day out. And this man says, 'Twenty pounds? What will you do? You accept it and say, That is practical help, or not? You take your money I'll pay you back when I can.' He says, 'You don't have to pay it back. Tell me, when you leave, Even if you've not spent one pound, you've not spent one euro And already, you're feeling what? You haven't spent it, no? Now you're leaving with the 2,000 euro, and just the chance that, Do you follow? So I've said to you, you say, 'They don't work!' So I'm not telling you they don't work. You are admitting, 'It's not working!' OK? 'My fantasies are not working!' I said, OK, put them all in the basket of God. God tells me, to tell you, OK? All of them! In the basket of God. Like the man who's been given the 2,000, who asked for 20 euro, and without spending one euro, already, [relaxed sigh], relief is here. Can you feel this relief? Can you do it? Because your mind will tell you, 'Yes, it's a nice exercise. I'll try it later.' That's part of the trouble, by the way. I'm speaking about right now, even. And what comes from you? Maybe, So, already, you defeat yourself! Maybe if I show you 2,000 euro Then if, by God's grace, And now show me. Really leave it.' And see if it works. But you must leave it. I'm not telling you to go and work it out. You leave it, then. Meaning, don't be bothered about it anymore. So, what is the problem now? [Q.] No, I just trust your words. No problem. OK. So, I give you the 2,000 euro. So do you feel better? No, you trust the 2,000 euro! Do you take it to the bank and say, 'Could you put it on one of those machines No, you say, It came from someone I trust.' So, you are relieved of your trouble. But don't go back and say, 'Sorry, one of the things I left with you, can I take it back, just to sort it out?' [Mooji] Let it fail! But you don't fail. Then you put it in, offer it. Can it be so simple? Or must we go I'll give you some technique. Can it be so simple? You see, this interaction is open all the time. Let's see where it fails, if it fails. But I'd rather that See where it succeeds. You see, the problem, if anything, but the investment in the mind. You believe more in the sorrow, than in the freedom and the joy. Many people still have meaning that, we'll do all this spiritual stuff, but, 'Don't come near this stuff, Do you know the cost of this? Whatever you preserve you will need more lives to sort it out. You transcend this, because you see the valueless-ness of this. That our lives can become stagnant! You're reading and singing bhajans, but something is stagnant. It's like a kind of tumour inside; Not even the light of God can reach it. Because of what? And the most powerful thing you have, And actually, we are living our choice! You may complain, you made a choice for some things And you're having to deal with it. So, those of you that sometimes we stagnate ... And what we do is, We learn many things, but here, this tumour is untouched. And these things So, the invitation, rather than feeling, 'Oh, we'll move so easily into beingness', there is a stubborness ... And what you're doing is, but you're still hanging out in personhood. Is this a good compromise? And can you relate to what I'm saying, also? [M.] And for this reason, And we can carry on. 'Yes, Babaji, but my mind gets so strong. Sometimes I can't sleep, I'm telling you where it comes from. We have not, as yet, offered up our self. If you find that, somehow, as very strong patterns in your life; It's like they just bring When you detect them, like this, 'I put this in the basket of God.' [M.] May I tell you like this? [M.] 'I put this in the basket of God. Father, I choose, And today I offer it, I put it out, within the capacity You give, to do this. And I cut this connection from my heart, please help me to transcend, Then light opens up in you And very quickly, also. But if you want to do it in your strength, and, 'Your strength' is an exaggeration, because you've not been able to overcome the egoic limitations by yourself. So work with universal consciousness, which is the source and essence of yourself. You may refer to it as God, And you say, 'Please help me'. By yourself, You just say in your heart, I see the sense of vulnerability Because these things feel like But you're retaining identity [M.] Do you know what I'm speaking of, or not? [M.] Am I on my own in this? [M.] So, as you recognise, then you offer. I'm not here to shame anyone, You, it was you! There is no perfect human being! There is no perfect person! But here is the thing: you are, originally, not a person, You are the God manifest! It says in the scripture, but you'll die as mere men, Meaning that this is our capacity, The whole purpose of a human existence is to wake up to your original nature! But the trap is, to fall from grace which is the instrument And you lost your way, you became a person. You don't know what a person is. A person is not a stable entity. That's why You outgrow ideas of yourself. But you cannot outgrow your being! [M.] Do you follow? [M.] Perhaps you'll in your own time, and follow, and say, 'Yes, here I'm catching something, Maybe quite a few things are coming up. So that you see where to be liberated from this. Only when you've moved are you now qualified for awakening. Otherwise you're stuck. And the best you're going be meaning you're a good person, but still [acts locked in], when you are the light of God. [M.] Do you understand, or not? [M.] So I'm not blaming anyone, Oh, you, you! Perfection is not in personhood, but in presence is the door through which that awakening will be completed. And don't feel, 'Oh, I've got a long way to go'. No, you've been a long way going! It can be cut, by grace. Whatever trouble, that however long like this it can change. [clicks fingers] That's the power of This is satsang! So, a two-aspected satsang. One is working on the person Improving the person means what? Diminishing the person's ... Transitioning from person into presence, And it's a living work, it's a powerful work! And the fruits of it are beautiful! So if you recognise today, 'Wait a second, that's why I keep going around and around, because, somehow, and I treat it like, you know, But actually, And you put it out. Yes. Then do it, and tell me if it fails. Tell me if it fails, the mind says, That's not my way. I like to walk, go into the forest, Whatever kind of thing you tell yourself Because the ego is a growth, But you are not a shape! Unless you believe you are. If you believe you are, It will become your experience. [M.] Are these things clear enough? [M.] So my encouragement And to experience I'm not asking you to become I'm saying, To point back to That which is. There's nothing wrong with religion, But sometimes it can become So, don't just listen Say, 'What are you reading from? Where can I buy it?' You say, 'I don't have time to read. Then whatever time you have, if you can dedicate it earnestly, I'm in support of this movement in you. And from that place I say, Even someone who feels, Because I know that you do want, The mind is running. I pray blessing into you, because I know that no one can wake up and regret it. The more you lose of yourself, personally, the more you are of yourself truthfully. You're not going to become someone else! You're going to start We've been thinking, 'This is what I am. I can't change. This is how God made me.' That's nonsense. [Mooji] Are we good? Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.