- Ah, any questions? What is my favorite? What - Kind of chair? - What is my favorite kind So I will answer your question, but first I would like to know from you, where do you get your weed? That is one of the wildest questions any human being has ever Are you saying like, rocking What are you looking for from me? I'm so intrigued by you right now. Like a rocking chair or, that's literally Yo, those brownies are dope. Like what kind of chair does he like? Like I just wanna know. I do like rocking chairs. My favorite chair is a Any chair that's suspended on I like, but not, not a bench. The chair, like, you know, it's just like you in the I, I like those, but I also like rocking any chair that moves when it's supposed to move is my favorite kind of chair. Yes. All the others I do But now, now that we've everywhere I sit from now What is your name? - Kh. I will, I'll think every single time I sit I will think of Kushi. Now did you say something? Did you - Get Did I get a house yet? Thank you for Thank you I didn't, no, I'm, I, I sold, no, I sold my place a while ago thinking I would then move to another place. And then interest rates did a thing and then people were like, we And I was like, but I sold mine. And they were like, well, And then I've been looking It's weird, man. Looking for houses. You know what, like, Just the whole thing feels It just, it just feels scammy. It's made me, I've been that I question everything now. Even the concept of home ownership, because in America, like the, the, the, the dream they'll sell you to own your home. And you're like, why? And they're wealth, because this is the, this is the financially savvy thing to do. But then when you look at why does it feel like I And they're like, yeah, This is the better one. Because you buy, if you You pay every month. But if you And when things break, you have to fix it. And you can never leave unless somebody wants to take it from you. But they don't, they do not. What's real estate like See all of, you're just like, yeah, good luck living anywhere. You'll sell me your house. I love how quickly you said that You are like, I'll sell you my house. I'll sell you my house. That's the weird thing with real estate. You don't want anybody's No, nobody wants to sell a good house. That's the, that's the Real estate is almost like relationships. You don't want someone if they're single, you are like, What's, what's the deal? I'm single. Yeah. What's your problem? Huh? Where is your house ma'am? - North Capitol You've got fans. You've got - Yeah. How quickly things changed? Hmm. I showed a little interest. And you started thinking about it. That's a weird one. Really? All of it is like, I just It's like there's like an older generation that just bought the houses for nothing. And then now the younger we can't buy the houses. We don't make enough money. do you remember the game show? Who wants to be a Millionaire? That was a, that was an evil cackle. If you are young, I get If you're old, you're evil. Because I was like, no one can afford. And that person's like, ha Screw you, gen Z people always give Gen Z But I'm like, but why would you want to work if there's nothing to work for? Do you know what I mean? of like grinding away if 'cause before you'd be that I can put a roof And then now it's like I I can't do anything. How would you do it? Like You will never buy a house. Is this your mom? You just That's it. That's your only hope. That's, do you have any siblings? You've got one older, younger. - Younger, You're gonna be the first one. She looks at you like she loves you. You realize in like four or five years, that looks gonna change. What's your name? Jack. Jack? Yeah. She's gonna be like, hit the road Jack and don't you come back and then you're gonna have You won't find one Jack. And then your mom's and I got this house. You can do it too, but you So you came with your mom to the show. That's super cool man. Good Did you, so did you bring - First? I brought money. - Wait. Oh, you, she said, 'cause he doesn't have any money. Damn, Jack, you got burned. I wanna live in your house, Jack. You got a mom roasting you like that? Oh man. Oh damn. I can't imagine your life People are like, oh, She's like, oh, he doesn't Broke. Little bitch. No, it's good, Jack. It'll toughen you up. It'll toughen you up. Do you Congratulations. Congratulations. So, so are you gonna hand it Damn. Damn, Jack. She was like, damn, Jack, say again. He wants - To He wants to live in La Jack, What? What are you not Why do you wanna live in La? Jack? - I also wanna live in San Francisco. - You, you also want to Jack, do you ever go on Zillow and see what's happening in these places? Shit is real in these streets. Jack, you like picking dream location? You know there used to be a to Be a Millionaire, Jack. And that game show was successful because people are like, if you're a millionaire, you can do things. You know why that game show 'cause a million don't Jack, you wanna live in San Francisco and LA in the house. Jack, what do you do for, what are you gonna do for a living? Jack? You want to play professional. You wanna play professional That's the right idea. Jack, what, what position Basketball very well. What are you gonna, what would you play as point guard? Point guard. Alright, so what, like that's passing and shooting. Okay, that's good. That's As a white kid, you must It'll save you stress in the long run. 'cause there was a that really got caught of guard, you know? No pun intended. But they were like, I And then Shaq was like, do know. So are you really good? Oh, Okay. She didn't even roast. She didn't roast you there, right? No. No. Really? She was How long have you been playing A few years. Or many years since - I was like Since you were two years old. Okay. You can, I believe in you You go and you do your best. Go for it. Go for it. Go for it. Live your dream. What's the worst can that can happen? Maybe you don't make it in Sudan. Maybe. Maybe you play in another some the leagues are growing, things are getting better, right? So you can play in other Look at we Bama. He got drafted. He wasn't even in like the So you can, you can just come at any time. So don't let anybody tell You can go, you can crush it in the NBA. And even if you don't, don't worry, you still weren't gonna get a house Jack. So nothing changes, Jack.