Remember that equation. This we covered in the last episode Welcome back. This was about security equals prevention, This is basically what we're doing in security. And we talked about at the very beginning of the series some security principles and roles and things like that, tools of the trade. Then we moved into prevention and access management and endpoint and network and application and data. And this is basically that mostly those controls we put in place are about prevention, Then in the last video, In the last video, we really focused on the detection portion of this. The thing that's up here Today, we're going to move on over into once we've discovered that, how do we do response? So that's what we're covering today. Let's start off with some of the basics of security response. Well, remember also I talked about this diagram where basically the bad guy comes along and he begins his attack by doing reconnaissance. That's some number of days where they're basically casing the joint. They're looking to see where are the weak spots, where can I get in? Then the attack occurs and this is where the damage begins. Unfortunately, where the attack occurs And that period of time we call the mean-time-to-identify (MTTI). And the according to the Ponemon Institute's Cost of a Data I'm going to make it approximate --roughly 200 days on average between when the attackers get in and when we're actually aware of it. Mean-time-to-identify 200 days, the bad guy is sitting in your house doing who knows what before you finally realize that it's happened. That's a big problem. But that's what we covered in the detection portion. Then what we're going to look at today is this next bit here. The mean-time-to-contain (MTTC). How long does it take for us, once we're aware, to get the damage controlled And it turns out this is on the order of 70 days. So this is the response portion of all of this. We in fact, if you look at the numbers over the years, They don't really change much. So even though we've had more tooling, we've had more understanding, we've had a lot of things that we've tried to do. We've not been, as an industry, all that terribly effective at reducing that mean time to identify and mean time to contain. So what are we going to do? We're going to look at this this stuff in the response part and make that some number that's shorter than that. So, for instance, the group that's up here doing this, This is what we know as the SOC, the security operations center. And it is a centralized team of people whose job it is to monitor each one of these domains is sending their information up We're going to detect whenever we see anomalous behavior alerts, and then we're going to respond, And that response And one of the big things that can cut the cost of a data Traditionally, again, that's the terminology we've used. It's not wrong, but that's just where we've come from. And what it is, is traditionally we've also made this largely It relies on heroes and experts, people who just happen to have knowledge in their heads and a gut feel on what to do. And that's how we do this. Unfortunately, that really doesn't scale But their job is to, first of all, triage. That is to when we get these alarms that come or is this just some noise that's out there? And if it's a real attack, And which ones? Because we never have time to respond What's the order of importance? That's the triage aspect of that. Looking and figuring out which patients do we need to see first. That's where that word comes from, is in the health care industry. And then once we've figured out the pecking order, That is, we're going to fix whatever it is, we're going to block. We're going to shut things down. We're going to apply software patches. We're going to put in controls so that we're no longer leaking data or our systems are able to get back up and running again. Now, the more modern approach that we hear, the terminology is SOAR. And I'm going to do my best to resort to not using any puns when it comes to a word like this, but it's awfully tempting. Anyway, source stands for security, orchestration, So it's automation and orchestration. We'll talk a little bit more about those coming up But just say where this tends to be traditionally much more manual. The idea with SOAR is that we're going to try to make things as much as possible automated and that hopefully will help us reduce Okay. Now we've covered the basics of response. Now let's take a look in a little more detail about cases and investigations, because that's the thing we're going to do next. The way this works is we have an attack. Remember, over here. Well, now I've depicted it here. And this attack then is going to generate hopefully some sort of alarm, And that's going to flow on up here into the SIEM, which makes up this detection portion of our security architecture. Now, we may also have the SIEM feeding in to an XDR, Or they may be separate. You may only have XDR or only SIEM. So I'm just going to depict it What I'd like to do then, if this system is able to identify that we and investigate this, and I'm going to create that case here. Either one of these systems could open the case automatically in our SOAR system, So the SOAR is depicted here. It's got this case management as one of its components. We can also use that to modify cases. We can use it to assign cases. So I'm going to assign this case over here to this guy right here. And he's going to be responsible And when he does that, one of the things he'll see not only created the case but also added in these things right here useful information that the cybersecurity analyst is going to use later So we can take that information So we enrich the case is another way of looking at it. And that way this person isn't starting from zero. They've got some information. Here's some information I have about it. Now we can also with this SOAR case management system track and maybe we have an extra dashboard that allows us to figure out which cases are open, which ones are high priority, who's investigating these and even reassign Now, this person is going to need to do this investigation business. They're going to have to dig in and figure out what's going on. How do they know what to do? Do they just start guessing? Do they start poking around where we'd hope that they would have a more consistent, repeatable way of figuring out what the problems are. So we'd like to guide their activities, especially if this person So we have these things called dynamic playbooks. So a dynamic playbook is something where we have gone in-- in advance --and determined when you see this, then run this routine. If you start here and then you go off and run these two events, maybe their scripts, maybe their particular procedures And based upon the results of those things, And depending on the results of that, they do something different. That's the dynamic aspect of this. So it's not just a static standard operating procedure that spells out you to number 1 through 10 There may be some of those things, but in fact, more dynamic and more flexible. And what you get from That's why it needs to be dynamic. And if we're able to capture that kind of information They don't have to have all of the expertise but they can follow the playbook and let it guide their activities. Ultimately, they're going to figure out where the source of the problem is, and we're going to spell out with the remediation steps And then they can go back here to this system If we're leaking data, stop that hemorrhaging. If it's a system that's down, how to bring it back up and protect it. Do the remediation that's necessary with that system. Okay. Now, we have gotten an indication that there was a problem. We created a case, opened it in the case management system, and now we have the cybersecurity analyst that's going to go off and investigate Why wouldn't we just automate everything? Well, I'm going to address that So think about this. Here's the manual approach. And we can think about everything as being on this spectrum. Either it's done entirely manually or it's done I'd rather do it this way. The problem is, in security, You know, swans are normally white, sometimes they're black. It's not impossible. It's just more rare. And it's not what we expect. And I can only automate what I've seen before. Sometimes we even get in security some of these things we call first of a kind events. okay, I'm probably going to have to figure that out manually because I won't have known how to set up a script to handle that in advance. But what I'd like to do is, as much as possible, do as much of this as I can in an automated way and for the things I can't. I'll stop somewhere along this continuum Think of this as sort of like semi-automated, where we have a human who is directing the system and saying, It's going to go off and do these procedures It's going to go off and do these things. So think of this also another way who is saying, okay, now I want the violins to come in here And they're orchestrating what is happening in this case. So orchestration is a step And the whole goal of this modern SOAR move things in that direction where it's more automated and less manual. And orchestration is a step along that way. Well, what are the other things that we have to do? It turns out if someone attacked us and there was data that then got breached or got compromised and bad guys got a hold of it, then we might have a responsibility here for notification. This whole business of breach notification. One of the first things we have to ask Well, maybe there were names. There might be Social Security numbers, if you're in the US, other types of ID numbers, credit card numbers That's the kind of information. So that's the data. I need to know what kind of data was compromised. Then I need to know what geography were So what nation are they in? Maybe even what state or region within that? Because it turns out we have different breach notification laws And even within a country we have different breach notification rules. So for instance, one of these major ones is called the Generalized Data Protection Regulation, GDPR that comes from the European Union. And GDPR specifies very specific, very heavy penalties. In fact, if you don't respond within a timely fashion, the penalties for this can be on the order of 4% of worldwide revenue. So 4% is a huge number for most organizations. Or it can be EUR20 million, whichever is greater. That's a big penalty if you don't report in a timely way when consumers data, citizen data has been compromised. And again, you might say, but I don't care. I am in the US or I'm in Australia. I don't have EU, you know, really hanging over my head. Think again. If you've got EU citizen data, So then it's a question of prosecution. But regardless, there are other types of rules in the US. Each individual state is kind of coming out with their own So there are lots of these, and this is what makes it really complicated to make sure that you have complied with all of these regulations It's really good to have a tool-- point Once I realize as part of my investigation I'd like to go into the tool and say, Here are the geographies where it was compromised, and here are the different regulatory requirements that I have to And based upon that, the system would come out and tell me exactly who do I need to notify. And that way I don't end up with a bunch of this I hope you've enjoyed watching this series As I told you at the beginning. This is a condensed version of a course I teach at a local university. But on the positive side, you also didn't have any homework So good news in that regard. I hope this also whetted your appetite more about cybersecurity What we'd like is to get some feedback from you. If you can add in the comments. What did you learn? What was a particular value to you in this series? That helps us know what kinds of things we should be doing in future videos. So also take a look at in the description below and you'll see a playlist that shows you all ten videos You don't want to miss. You want to catch all of them. So please go take a look at that. And as always, like subscribe and hit the notify bell as they come out.