The New York Times, Food and Wine, and Serious Eats all say that Lodge is the But is that really true? And In this review, I reveal the truth for over five years and cooking hundreds of meals. You'll learn what I like, what I dislike, and the differences between Lodge's Throughout this review, I show you Calphalon, which makes a similar and Stargazer, a much more expensive So, if you're shopping for a cast iron skillet and you want to know if Lodge Lodge cast iron skillets have a classic, rugged most popular skillets are the Classic Collection straight walls, while Chef Collection skillets to slide a spatula under food, especially When you hold these skillets, the first Lodge Classic 12-inch skillet weighs 8.1 pounds. pounds, and Stargazer weighs 6.5 pounds. If too heavy, the Chef Collection has thinner The next thing you'll notice is the handle is 5 inches long and parallel to cast as one piece with the skillet's body, or the red silicone handle holder that comes with the The Lodge Chef Collection handle is longer. It still gets hot on the stove, At 4.75 inches, Calphalon's handle is slightly at 7.6 inches, the Stargazer handle is much longer Lodge's helper handle across from the Calphalon's is 1.5 inches, and Stargazer's Lodge helper handles still Lodge skillets also have a pour spout on each spilling. The Chef Collection pour spouts but when I tested both, I didn't notice a into the bowl without spilling, but Instead of pour spouts, the Stargazer around for easy pouring from the flared rim does a better job of Lodge skillets have a slightly rough, pebbly process. To make each skillet, they pour melted they break the sand cast, and the texture Some brands, like Stargazer, smooth the cooking but Lodge doesn't. Lodge claims the better. And brands like Stargazer claim the To test these claims, I preheated the Lodge with oil and butter, and dropped in an egg. As to the surface. I've cooked dozens of eggs in this As far as seasoning goes, there's some truth to with a durable, even coating that adheres the seasoning on a Lodge skillet lasts longer, and you'll only need to re-season it Stargazer skillets are also pre-seasoned but quickly. Even after re-seasoning, I've had My one minor complaint about Lodge's rough surface tiny paper fibers get snagged and can see the fibers. You can easily wipe I've used Lodge cast iron skillets for several years and they cook exactly how They heat up slowly, but once preheated, they The superior heat retention you get with makes them ideal for searing meats like It's also ideal for baking pizza and bread. skillets is cornbread. It cooks evenly and the Another benefit, which I mentioned Because of the well-seasoned surface, and other delicate foods without worry. As long as Besides the short handles getting hot and I don't have any major complaints there's nothing unique about the way it cooks. Calphalon, Stargazer, and other cast iron baking bread, and frying eggs. Because they in performance are subtle and are dependent So, to gather more data and find out how I conducted a few controlled tests. The first test measured heat how fast and evenly do these skillets heat up? For this test, I poured two cups of water Lodge Chef Collection, Stargazer, and Calphalon. was 55degF. I heated each pan on the highest All four pans showed signs of uneven heating as time passed, the heat made and the bubbles were more The Stargazer skillet boiled the water Lodge Chef Collection skillet came seconds. In third place was Calphalon at 2 the Lodge Classic skillet took 3 The next test measured heat retention, buying cast iron. You want a skillet ingredients, and maintains a steady After the water started boiling, I took each After 5 minutes, the water in the Lodge Lodge Chef Collection skillet was 120degF, After 10 minutes, Lodge Classic was Stargazer was 101degF, and Calphalon was 100degF. The goal of my final test was to see For this test, I poured two cups of 55degF water induction burner with the heat set to 464degF. That's As I turned the burner on, I set a timer to In first place was the Lodge Classic skillet. to 167degF. In second place was Stargazer with Collection came in third place at 151degF. And the When you look at all the data from Lodge Classic heats a lot slower than but heats faster on induction Lodge Chef Collection and Stargazer skillets both electric and induction cooktops, but Calphalon was the second to last Despite the company's long history and the fact Tennessee, Lodge is one of the most The 12-inch Classic skillet is currently The 12-inch Chef collection And the most premium skillet they offer, Other popular brands are much more expensive. For The Smithy skillet costs $210. And the Field Company skillet costs $215. People often ask how Lodge can be so cheap, and founded in 1896 and has since become one of the they can make each skillet at a lower cost Stargazer. Also, Lodge doesn't smooth the So, should you buy a Lodge cast iron skillet? Based on my testing, it's one of And considering the price, it's Dozens of brands are making skillets and smoother cooking surfaces, but the reality results in the kitchen are nearly identical, If you really love the design features since cast iron skillets can last forever. high-performing American-made skillet for If you own a Lodge skillet already, let me And if you're ready to buy one, Lodge in the video description. earn a commission if you click and If this was helpful, check out this and most effective way to season cast iron click the logo to subscribe to the channel. Thanks