This episode is brought to you by SkillShare. Learn new skills or even how to start a YouTube channel. Like we just did. The first 150 people to sign up using The 1960's were a fascinating time for civil aviation. Full of incredible an aerospace company known for its world's most advanced airliner. And Passengers loved it's spacious cabin and its handling, power, and ergonomics. Nearly 50 years ago, this aircraft could fly itself from takeoff to landing without But this is also the same aircraft that it. Generating billions of dollars in would never try to build another When launched the L-1011 TriStar was the airliner ever. Making leaps forward in TriStar introduced innovations that This aircraft should have helped competition. The Tristar featured a could land the plane at certain airports weather, when other planes of the era, well airports. And its degree of system excellent reputation for safety. Lockheed cabin. It wasn't your typical cramped and spacious, just about any measure, a superior how did such a highly-revered aircraft huge financial failure? To answer that could say it began with a man named American Airlines. American was in the time there was a lot of excitement over promising to be lucrative for Airlines. to fill seats on something as large as a that carried less passengers (around 250) second-generation wide-body airliner. So manufacturers. Boeing had enough on their plate they were busy raking it in with their Lockheed were interested. Kolk initially Federal Aviation Administration 60-minute rule would prove to be a challenge. The 60-minute rule meant that only fly as far as 60 minutes from an emergency. Not so practical for airlines engine tri-jet configuration could get more efficient than the 4 engine jets Douglas, which was in the process of history of building successful keep development costs low, so their systems which they had already developed. built a jet-powered airliner and their driven Electra, well it was kind of a poor sales. Lockheed had something to advanced airliner to make rival yesterday's news. After all, this was the the SR-71 Blackbird. airliner. Lockheed's design called for a through a curving S-duct. The problem was, there wasn't an engine in production short enough to fit the installation. And the anything on the drawing board that would looked promising. A lighter more L-1011 an advantage. But here's the thing, one hell of a smooth talker, seriously over promise and under deliver. Even before Rolls-Royce's engine would innovative Hyfill fanstage to pieces, work, it still couldn't meet the Lockheed. And the financial situation at forced to declare bankruptcy. And Rolls L-1011 program. But things were also financial situation by now had overruns and other defense project bankruptcy would mean no engine for the massive delays that Lockheed was in no any more British than Rolls-Royce, and company of such national importance just nationalized the company and worked with for Lockheed, so that there would be an engines. And this allowed Rolls-Royce to they ended up with a fantastic engine. elephant in the room. For years, American plane with virtually smokeless engines land at almost any commercial airport. See, even before the whole engine debacle, the rival DC-10. McDonnell Douglas was a in civil aviation. Lockheed on the other would pick up early sales from the large behind the DC-10, even as the DC-10 sprinkling the Midwest with engine parts. aircraft were too big fish sharing a market to support two wide-body tri-jets And by the late 1970's and early 80's, a market. The efficient wide-body twin-jet Newly formed Airbus had introduced the L-1011 and DC-10 tri-jet sales. Lockheed would need just to break even, and production in 1984. The TriStar certainly it was over-engineered, making it a bit advanced airliner of its day, save maybe a fantastic safety record and it was it couldn't get past its rocky start and quickly changing market. The L-1011 was a own admission, a financial failure. And engineering, and business go hand in hand. it takes a wide range of skills to comes in. If you've been thinking about your hobby, or picking up new skills offer. From design, to software, to how to courses that caught our eye are their With Ease in AfterEffects. Just a AfterEffects was. But today I'm using it learning it. But here's the thing; there's your wheels trying to learn from professional teachers accelerate your learning. The first using the link in the description will After that, it's just $10 a month. got you covered.