I went and now all the takeout is delivered to the mountains. Hey, hey, it's not like two old bastards ordering takeout in Taishan District. Fortunately, they didn't give me good reviews. I bought it for you. If I were the old bastard and you, the little bastard , ordered takeout, how could I deliver it to you? I feel wronged for a takeaway. If you don't feel wronged, it's not in vain anyway. Just pay me the errand fee for 500 yuan , you bastard, just for a few hundred yuan. Is it fun to make money and sunbathe ? It's been 5 years, have you had enough? The family's assets are worth trillions, can't they still support you? Anyway, as long as you don't recognize Su Xiaofei as your daughter-in-law, I won't come back to this house for a day. You can take care of that by yourself. A woman is not a good thing at first glance . Are you blind? You don't even recognize your father and don't want the family assets. Hey, I told you that I don't. It's rare. Anyway, the takeout was delivered to the end of the street. It's better to bring it to you. You bastard , if you have the ability, you can deliver takeaways for the rest of your life. If you don't do it to the bastard , Mr. Liu gave him a negative review and said that the delivery was overdue. Okay, sir, this old guy gave me a negative review. Why are you so angry with me at such an old age? No, I have to fuck him. Why are you talking about something happening? Xiaobei, why are you still here? Accompany Chu Ming, this loser. Your Bai Yueguang's grandma is hospitalized with a cold and fever. Are your family members here? Does the patient want to see you? I am the family member of the patient. Come in. Why? I heard that Shaojie's grandma is hospitalized. What's going on? Come and see Chu Ming. He just Xiao Fei, that poor dog who is still here, must have been unable to sit still and sneaked away. He doesn't even care about himself. Grandma, you are blind for him. Why are you worrying so much? Come on, let's go. Shaoxian is still waiting. You're right. Let's go. My wife and grandma are dying. She wants to see her one last time. Come with me to see her. How about you go ? Chu Ming Shaojie's grandma is hospitalized with a cold. Ask grandma to wait for me for a while. I'll come over when I'm done. Why did Jie hurt Shao Jie again? Where is he hospitalized? What does it have to do with you? Zhu Ying, can you? Can't you calm down? Shao Jie needs my help now. Please understand me. I can't understand Shao Fei. My grandma has always been nice to you. Now she secretly wants to see you. You actually want to compensate me by mistake. Who are you and who are you? Granddaughter-in -law , please sit down for me. Okay, you're done . I'm really giving you face. How dare you compete with Shaojie . You are from a famous family, rich and talented . You're a pauper. What qualifications do you have to compare with Shaojie? Shaojie can be as rich and glorious as Xiaofei. Can you ? Xiaofei, please go and don't talk nonsense with him . Shaojie will be here in a while. He has something to trouble you , right? Let's go quickly. Xiaofei. If you leave today, I will break up with you. Xiaofei , I advise you to divorce Chu Ni, that good-for -nothing. A poor dog can't give you anything. You, you and Shao Jie are the best match. And Shao Jie sent me a message before. The Chu family has taken a fancy to Shaojie's potential and plans to invest tens of billions in Tianyu Group, which Shaojie is in charge of. That's the Chu family. The richest man in Yuncheng will cooperate with Shaojie. You can rise to the top in one step and become the leading rich man in Yuncheng , and you will be a billionaire Mrs. Ku by then. Yawen, what are you talking about? Well, even if Shaojie and I are together, it's not because of his money. Yes, you two are in love. Lovers eventually got married. Now it's just a long journey. Let's go. I'm so stupid . What kind of food are you going to give to Xiaobei on a rainy day ? If you don't deliver food to him , you won't be hit by a car, and you won't be a stupid child. Don't cry because grandma affects your relationship. Go get the child. Fei came early. I have something to give to him. I will go and save him now. Shao Jie, our Xiaofei knew that grandma was hospitalized and didn't care about anything, so she rushed down here. Tell me how to thank our Xiaofei. Xiaofei, thank you so much . I have been troubling you for a while and now I have to force you to pretend to be my wife. To be honest, I can't even repay you . It's okay. Shaojie will do it for you. I am willing to do these things and I will not force myself to play your wife. In this case , let's go. Chu Ning , Chu Ning, you are crazy. Why did you hit him? He is my classmate . Please apologize to him . My classmate can hug my wife. My classmate can educate me. Teach me that he is a despicable person who breaks up other people's families. Shut up, Chuyu, why do you insult him like this? This matter has nothing to do with Shaojie. I took the initiative to pretend to be his fiancee in order to make my grandma happy. This can make Shaojie's grandma recover faster. It's just the darkness in your own heart . You are here to pester Shaojie. Shaojie, you only have Han Shaojie in your eyes. Grandma, when the boy celebrated his birthday, you didn't come because of him. My boy was in constant pain due to appendicitis. Bedduxiang asked you to buy some medicine. You're not as good as me. It's because something happened to his grandma. She's in bed now. If you don't come, it's because he's good. It's always because of him. I want to ask you, Su Xiaofei, who are you? That 's enough. Isn't it just an accident? What do you mean, there is an accident and you can't die ? Besides, Shao Jie and I have known each other for so many years. How can I help them both? Why are you gesticulating here? When I met Shao Jie, there was nothing wrong with you. Come on, Shao Jie, he is sick. Stop on bed No. 1. Family members , please bring your wife over. Your grandma is going to die soon. Okay, I understand . Go now, baby Su, I beg you , go see grandma. This is her last wish. As long as you stay with her in the hospital tonight. After the last night, I won't care about your affairs anymore, okay? That's enough. Chu Yan, are you bothered? I told you. I will go to accompany grandma after I finish my work. Are you still pestering me here ? Hey , I'll be there right away . Grandma Fei is a little uncomfortable. Why don't we go over there early? Madam Chu, you also heard that Shaojie's grandma is in an emergency. Your grandma's side will let him go. Wait for me for a while. I 'll go see you after I've been with Shaojie. Stop here. Who are you? Wife, Su Xiaobei. Wake up. You're just a delivery boy. What qualifications do you have to compare with Shao Jie? Shao Jie is rich and talented . I won't even look at you if you're such a piece of trash. Back then, it was our little Fei who was confused for a moment , but now I advise you, this stinky loser, to be more conscious. Don't bother our little Fei to get along with his Bai Yueguang. Why are you alone, your sworn wife? Your grandma didn't even want to see her for the last time. Back then, I said that woman was not worthy of being a member of the Chu family because of her bad conduct and outlook. Daughter -in-law, you are a rebellious son who would rather give up the business empire you created with your own hands . I broke off the relationship between father and son and went out to deliver food for five years, but I still insist on marrying her . Why are you standing there now ? Why don't you hurry up and go in to see your grandma for the last time? From now on, you must be a good grandma. Ha, grandma , I'm sorry. The patient was in critical condition just now. I was afraid of the regret of the old man leaving , so I took it upon myself to pretend to be your wife . This was given to you by your grandma. It should be very precious and should be passed on to your wife. Grandma, okay, don't cry , grandma. It can be considered a death and a happy mourning. Now you can go away and continue to deliver your takeaways. I will work as a cow and a horse to raise your good wife. Dad, I was wrong. I shouldn't have severed the father-son relationship with you because of him. Everything about this beautiful son is all decided by the family. What you just said Seriously, that includes asking you to divorce that woman. Well, my son, today, dad has loved you for 5 years. This brat, you finally woke up. The prodigal son has finally come to his senses. Tonight, dad will take you home to acknowledge your ancestors and then appoint you as the president of the Chu Group . The person in charge is just a retainer of Wanjie , but Dad, is it inappropriate to ask me to be the president just after I came back? There is nothing inappropriate. Although the Chu Group was created by me , it was you who made it bigger and stronger, turning my Chu family into the richest man in one fell swoop . You should sit in the right place. Thank you. Isn't your wife here yet ? This is your grandma's death certificate . It may come in handy later. Thank you, Chu Ning. How can you do it here ? Just disturb your granddaughter-in-law. This grandson- daughter-in-law is ah. He is the takeout ordered by me. He is the grandma who delivers the takeout. I will help you to rest over there and come back to you later. Girl, you actually chased me here. If Han Lei comes to discuss our relationship, how do you want me to explain it to you ? The one who should be explained most now is not Han Shaojie It's our Zhao Ming who is so good to you and yet you did this small favor. You still talk about it all your life. Grandma Han is sick. Er Shaojie has everything to do. Now he is negotiating a cooperation with the Chu Group. Once the cooperation is concluded, he will get Ten billion investment If there is no delay , you should first take care of your grandma by yourself in this life. You are quite considerate of him and me. When have you ever been considerate of your husband? It doesn't make sense to say this. Chunying, what qualifications do you have to be in charge with the young lady at such a young age? Home He serves as the general manager of Tianyu Group in a family-owned company and is about to receive tens of billions of investment from the Chu family. And you have worked so hard for a month delivering takeaways and you can't compare to him for an hour. If you are really worried about your grandma, just ask for a few more days off. Go take care of him and don't bother me here, Miss Su, right? Logically speaking, this is your family matter and I can't control it, but your words are really clear . Sir, no matter how hard he makes no money, he is still your husband after all. No matter how talented others are, they are just outsiders to you. I am just talking about things. If Chu Ning is really capable, he can make a career like a young hero instead of being a petty chicken here. How can you talk like this? Is this what a wife should say? Who are you? How can I talk to you? What does it matter? Stop being a dog and a rat here and mind your own business. You mean that I am in a lowly position and am not worthy of you, right? I didn't say that. But if Chu Mingren doesn't have the ability, just keep your tail between your legs and be a human being. Don't look for trouble here. Humiliate yourself. Of course, after all, I am your wife. Out of obligation, I will go to visit grandma. When I finish taking care of Shaojie's grandma, and her condition improves, I will How about going to see grandma ? Wait for us to listen to how you taught you to say such things. Do you know that grandma is already a daughter-in-law and she hasn't finished talking yet? Why are you talking so much to a delivery boy? She belongs to my Han family again. I 'm a good grandma . I'll be there right away . Grandma Shaojie called me. Don't make trouble for me. I'll go visit grandma. No, no, no, we don't need to see each other again. What did you mean when we met ? Su Xiaobai, we divorced and I asked you to marry me without getting a car. This way we don't have to think about Chu Ning anymore. You're done, right? I told you that Shaojie and I are just ordinary friends . His fiancee is just having fun. You can't understand human language, right? Since you want to see Bai Lanhao so much, I will record one night in Xiangjiang at 11 o'clock tomorrow morning. I will take you there. Did you see him for the last time? Is your granddaughter-in-law okay? Shaojie went downstairs and bought you flowers. You go and pick him up first. Okay, Madam Chu, I will be there tomorrow . Let's not talk about it. Shaojie is here. I'm leaving first. I'm coming. La Xiaoning, um, I made chicken soup for Xiaofei . He's busy with work. You can deliver it to him . I won't go. I've been delivering takeaways all day. I 'm exhausted. You little brat, why don't you go? You're on your way. Take it easy. If you spill my granddaughter-in-law's chicken soup and break your leg, go ahead. Hey, Xiaoning is here. What's wrong? Your dad gave me another sum of money. I'll save it for your mom. Don't keep it yourself. Besides, I have severed the father-son relationship with him. I don't want this money. I'm not giving it to you. It's for my granddaughter-in-law . When I save enough money , I will buy a house with my granddaughter-in-law . Write Xiao Fei's name and you can't let people follow us, the old Chu family, to keep you in a rented house. Come on, grandma, what are you doing here? I'm not here to see you. I'm here to see my grandson-in-law, Xiao Fei. It 's already raining . Why are you running around ? Xiao Fei, isn't he having menstrual cramps? I boiled some ginger candy for him and let him drink it while it's hot . Grandma, I'm sorry. It's all my fault for being blind and blind, so I chose a white-eyed wolf. The grandson-in-law in front of you made you die with hatred, but grandma, don't worry, the grandsons have woken up and I made them pay the price. I mourn the New Year and the days of change will continue. What are your plans for the future? If you need it, I can help you introduce a job. This hospital is run by our family. I can arrange for you to enter the hospital. As a security guard, I will give you 5,000 a month and provide you with five insurances and one housing fund. Thank you. No, the eldest master, I told you to take you home. Let's go. Welcome eldest master home, son. Welcome home, son. I have already announced my name, Chu Zhenghong, at the group board of directors. The son is back and is about to take over the position of president of the group. Dad Xie will regain control of the Chu Group. Thank you, don't worry, I will work hard. Your grandma had great expectations for you. Work hard and continue to carry forward the Chu family's industry. This can be regarded as a tribute to your grandma in heaven. I have already arranged your grandma's funeral. The ceremony will be held at 11 a.m. tomorrow at 3 p.m. Order someone to bury you. You are the eldest son of the Chu family and the future Chu family. You can host the ceremony and deliver the banquet. Don't worry. Another thing is about dealing with the future hostess , that is, your future wife. But back then, I was afraid that you wouldn't find a wife , so I made two reservations for you with your mother in advance. Take a look at the engagement. Which one should you choose? I won't read it . You laugh for me. What are you talking about? Hurry up and choose one of the two. Dad, I think it's good for him Ren Yuqiang . After he is buried, he will get married late . The other one will break off the engagement. Everything will be done according to dad's arrangements . It's been a busy day . Go to bed early. Dad, I'll go pack two things first . Congratulations to grandma on her recovery and discharge from the hospital. Let's have a toast. Cheers . Haha. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha This is the eldest son of the Chu family who has disappeared for many years. He just recently Why is he alone when he returns ? Isn't he married? Why hasn't his wife come yet ? Grandma passed away and my grandson's daughter-in-law is staying with Lin Shouxiao. I heard that the old lady was seriously ill and was hospitalized for 7 days. This daughter-in-law has never visited her relatives once, helping to take care of others . My wife is dying. Is it true that we can meet each other? Why did the Chu family find such a person? My wife, I think she cheated on her. She cuckolded the young master of the Chu family. The young master is almost 11 o'clock. The funeral should start. Just wait ten minutes. Chu Ning , I won't go there today . In the morning, I have to accompany Shao Jie to a funeral. This funeral. It's very important to Shao Jie's future. As for tonight, it's Shao Jie's grandma's 70th birthday. Please tell grandma me. After wishing Shao Jie's grandma a birthday, I went to see him. Su Xiaofei was so kind to you, so this is how you repay him. You're not done, right? You 're kidnapping me morally here. He was good to me. It was of his own free will . What about you? How about I go to the funeral of the richest man Chu Jiang by myself? You go and see his grandma. Oh, leave him alone. I'm telling you. The bitch is just pretentious and got sick. The worst thing is to die. Who wouldn't die ? She is here all day long looking for trouble. She is a loser and she still thinks of herself as a person. If you don't mention him, you will get angry if you mention him. I already don't want to be with him anymore. Shaojie, let's go in quickly. We're late. We're sorry. We can count on our tens of billions of investments today. Besides , I also heard that the eldest son of the Chu family, who had been missing for a long time, is back. This funeral will be hosted by the eldest grandson Chu. He is the richest man and the heir to the Chu family. The Chu family group has prospered under his hands. If he can curry favor with such a person, I am a worshipper. The investment will be pocketed. It makes sense. We must flatter the young master of the Chu family and leave . Let 's slip away. Let's go and present flowers. Sun Xie Ke Tu Niu is you Chu Liang. Why are you here ? Didn't I tell you just now? After I finished my work, I went to accompany my grandma and chased you here. It really makes me feel sick that you are so entangled. Su Xiaofei, if I pester your sister, you think too highly of me, don't you think, Chu Niang, I'm warning you . Here is the funeral of the Chu family, the richest man in Yuncheng. If you anger the Chu family and affect Shaojie's future, I will never forgive you . Han Shaojie is Han Shaojie. I thought it was your conscience that came over to send you off. It seems that I was wrong . In my heart, Han Shaojie's saliva may be more important than my loss of love. What do you mean? You mean grandma, she? That's right. Your grandma has already left. Did you know that grandma was still calling your name before she left ? He even wanted to give you the Chu family's ancestral bracelet. I have been trying to please this Han Shaojie. Why did he die so quickly? Didn't I ask him to wait for me for a few more days? Are you talking in human language? Sister Dong, then you didn't take it seriously? My lord, whoever wants me to have a sweet beard will have a sweet beard. I also heard that the old lady got into trouble because she brought him food. This woman, the old lady, did not hesitate to keep her filial piety before she died. Instead, she paid filial piety to the wild men outside. She is so wild. Even if you do n't know how to raise a white-eyed wolf, you won't let that wild man try it. How dare you, a stupid grandma like you, have a morally corrupt woman? Even if you die, you won't tell me if you can't earn money or spread the word, right? Grandma is seriously ill and I, my granddaughter-in-law, are not here. How do you want outsiders to see us ? How do you want us to see Shaojie ? How do you want us to gain a foothold in Yuncheng ? Are you going to kill me? Grandma Su Xiaofei is. I died because of you. It was you and your adulterer who died here today in grandma's mourning hall. Do you have any conscience or shame in your future ? OK, Chu Ning. The responsibility for today's incident lies with me and Xiaofei. We came to the wrong place. What we were going to attend was the Chu family's funeral. Xiaofei asked you to leave. It's also for your own good . The Chu family is the most powerful one in the entire Yuncheng. You did nothing at the Chu family's funeral. Can you afford the consequences ? Everything Xiaofei has done is for your own good , but you are messing around here. What Yawen said is true. You are not worthy of Xiaofei. You are a piece of trash. Just stay away from Xiaofei as soon as possible. This card. There is enough money in there for your funeral expenses But I have a request. From today on, please be quiet and do n't cause trouble for Xiao Hei. I tell you to get out of here with your dirty money . Don't dirty my grandma's funeral hall . Miss Chu, Mrs. Chu's funeral will be held here. It's the eldest young master of the Chu family who is presiding over the funeral inside. This is the wreath and gift money that the master has prepared for you. It's up to you. Give this to Master Chu personally. No need. I'm not here today to follow you. Why are you here? You're not married. Farewell. This is the young master who protects the family. If you break off the engagement, the master will go crazy. So what? I, Ren Yuqing, will definitely If you don't marry a woman you don't know, why is she still wearing mourning clothes here ? What is my fiance's name, Hui Xiao? My sister, the young master of the Chu family, whose only name is Ning, is Chu Ning. It turns out that there are such coincidences in this world. It seems that I can consider this marriage again, Shaojie, right? Even if he scratched his face and said it was okay, he was bleeding. Chu Ning You bastard, why do you push Shaojie Chu Ning? I know you have hatred in your heart. You hate me for not coming to see grandma for the last time, but what's the matter? Come on , don't be so anxious. What does this have to do with us? Can't you let grandma die a little later and wait until we get there? That's enough, Su Xiaofei, I've had enough of your strong words in childhood. Now take your bitch husband away immediately. Here I, Chu Ning, treat me as my wife without you. Chu Ning, don't go too far. You can insult me, but you are not allowed to insult me. Insulted young lady, you apologize to him immediately. I apologize to him. He deserves it. Do you know if it weren't for you, a bitch like you, how could grandma leave with regrets ? So what? You just died. Grandma, Shaojie, hurt his arm and lost money. I have gained my reputation and today I am a Shaojie. It's my grandma's birthday, but you chose today to be arrogant. You can't do it again every few days. I think you just deliberately don't like Shaojie's grandma. It's better. Please say it again. No one is to blame about your grandma. If you want to be, blame you. If you are as young, capable, and powerful as Shaojie , You can hire the best doctor and take the best medicine for grandma. How could grandma die so quickly? After all , it was you who killed you. This slap slaps you with a wolf-like heart and a heartless girl. You dare to hit me. This slap slaps you without distinction between right and wrong. Blind Invisibility slaps you for being ungrateful and white-eyed wolf. Bai, why are you hitting people? Why can't I hit people? He is here making a big fuss in Grandma Chu's mourning hall , making Grandma Chu feel uneasy even after she dies. I beat him because he is a relative. An Zhang is the reason why he should be allowed to compensate you. You can do whatever you want, Chu Ning. As a grandson, I didn't say anything about you. Trash dares to hit me! I am Chu Ning's wife, Grandma Chu's grandson's daughter -in-law. You are here making a scene at my husband's grandma's funeral. What qualifications do you think I have to disturb my wife? You are talking nonsense. I am Chu Ming's wife, grandma's grandson's daughter-in-law, wife's granddaughter-in-law. Do you think you are still Are you qualified? Chu Ming, thank you very much. My father has told me about our affairs. It seems that we are really destined. Well, you, a virgin, actually joined forces with outsiders to embarrass me . In that case, don't blame me for being rude today. All the guests are here. I want to ask for your help. I will bear witness that Chu Ning is humble and incompetent. He has been useless for five years and is not worthy of being my husband. So I, Su Xiaofei, break up with him today and there will be no more friendship from the past. If he gets into any trouble in the future, it will have nothing to do with me, Su Xiaofei. Xiaobai, I am waiting for you. A long sentence I've been treating you like a waste for your sake. Now that you have words and deeds, I don't have to save your face. Ah Shui brought the bodyguards of the group to the funeral parlor. I want to destroy you, Mrs. Chu. It's still too late to kneel down and apologize to Shaojie now, I still care about my breasts I'll spare your life for the sake of my mother-in-law, otherwise everything will be impossible. Let me kneel down and apologize to you. You two bitches are not enough. Chu Niang, I hate you the most. You are obviously worthless but talk big. Do you know what Shaojie is? Man? He is in charge of Tianyuji After the group has assets of over 100 million, it will receive tens of billions of investments. At that time, he will stand at the top of Yuncheng's business community. Compared with Shaojie, you are nothing at all. What qualifications do you have to say that he is losing money ? I thought Miss Su's Bai Yueguang had How much ability you have, it turns out that you only have this little background in your pocket So a few people dare to call themselves a wealthy Han family. The Yunchen family has assets of nearly tens of billions . They are embarrassed to say that they are a wealthy family. The Han family's assets are only in the billions to survive. They dare to talk nonsense here. And as far as I know Mr. Han Investment failure due to poor decision-making led to South Korea's The Tianyu Group under the Han family has billions in debt. If it can't attract more investment , I'm afraid it will be liquidated by the bank. You are talking nonsense. My Tianyu Group is at its peak now. How can it go bankrupt? People, let's say that our Han family is a famous family and has been rich for generations . Our assets are not as good as those of other companies , but in terms of prestige in the entire Yuncheng, who can be better than me? The Han family. Even the richest family, the Chu family, is asking to cooperate with our Han family. And the most beautiful woman in Yuncheng is Yu Qian, who has repeatedly treated me. Throwing yourself into my arms and pursuing me, I want to be the young man of my Han family But no matter how much he pesters me, I only have Xiao Hei in my heart. Please invest in me. How come I don't know what else do you know besides delivering food ? You said that Miss Ren is throwing herself at you and pursuing you so hard. Why don't I? I don't know, hahaha, Miss Ren's family Who are you and what do you think? This is a matter for our upper class. You don't know. That's normal. I just let you do whatever you want. If you offend, you are the eldest lady of Ren Yuqing. Then how come you are talking to Chu Ming? You are the eldest daughter of the Ren family. Miss , then I am still the young master of the Chu family . How dare you come to a funeral with your status as a young lady and pretend to be someone else's eldest lady? I think you are just like Chu Ming and don't know how to die . Why don't you believe it ? Then let me ask you, do you know the head of the Han family, Han Yuanshan? That's my dad. Do you know me? It happened to be the head of the Han family yesterday. Borrow money from my house over the phone It's said that it's an emergency . Our family has already agreed. But what Young Master Han said today seems that the Spring and Autumn Festival of Tianyu Group does not need our family's 1 billion to help you . I will call my father now and ask him to cancel. Damn it. How does this woman know what my dad did to the Shen sister ? What he said is really impossible. The eldest daughter of the Shen family has always rarely appeared in public. I visited many times and failed to see such a rich daughter. How could such a rich daughter give a daughter-in-law who delivers food ? I have already told my father about the loan. Cancel the pretense and continue to pretend. Waiting for my people to come. Let me see how you can pretend to have ruined Shaojie's people. When we arrived at Chu Ning, we still didn't kneel down and apologize. I told you that Shaojie could be stubborn for you because of our past relationship. The magic water came just in time and killed them both for me. Killed them both for me. What's going on? I'm deaf. I asked you to cripple him for me. Master, your wings are hard, right? Now my words are useless, right? Stop , Dad. Why are you here, what are you doing, you rebellious son? Zeng Jiabao canceled the loan just because of you. I covered my face and begged my grandpa and grandma to find me. All the life-saving money I got was destroyed in your life. I didn't do anything. I didn't know anything. You didn't believe that I was Ren Yuqing just now. How about you believe it now? Yu Qian, you are also there. Did Shaojie offend you just now? Woman , what did I do to offend you? I will teach him a lesson for you. But this result is really important to my Han family. Thousands of employees in the group are counting on him to pay their wages. Yu Qian, please help Uncle Han. Please give your dad a call, Uncle Han. It's not that I'm unkind, it's mainly you. This son ruined my reputation and that of my fiance, and even threatened to depose people like us as the general manager of Tianyu Group. I am really worried about the 1 billion that our family lent. It is like a meat bun and a dog . He will never come back. What he said is true. I didn't know he was the eldest lady at first . I'll give it to you. Sooner or later, my Han family will be destroyed by your hands, Shaojie. It's all my fault. Uncle Han, Shaojie, he was appointed to help me. Shaojie, we don't know where we offended you. Are you trying to embarrass us like this ? Is it because I'm tall? Does being good-looking threaten your status as the most beautiful woman in Cloud City? It's a joke that you saw the countryside A rich man with a poor background, a short-sighted, knowledgeable , incompetent person with a ruined character . Even if I give you another 20 years, you won't be in danger. Miss Ren, you have such a loud tone. Wenwen, why are you here? You have been bullied by me. Of course this best friend will come. Uncle Han, you are also here, Shaojie, this is hey, I'm fine, Wen Wen all blames that Chu Ning , you Chu Ning, you stinky loser. Sansheng is lucky enough to marry my best friend. You don't have any bad feelings towards my best friend. Today, you actually teamed up with an outsider to embarrass Xiao Fei. You are a white-eyed wolf who eats inside and outside. I'll watch it later . If any idiot woman is willing to marry you, just wait to be a bachelor for the rest of her life . I don't have to worry about you. You are Ren Yuqing. The eldest lady of the Ren family is rumored to be the most beautiful woman in Yuncheng. You, the Ren family, have some strength , but just because of you, you want to show off your power here and bully my best friend and me. I advise you, this couple of bitches, to kneel down and give it to me immediately if they know what they are doing. Best friends and my friends apologize and beg for mercy , otherwise I, Guo Yawen, will definitely make you look good. Yawen, you have to be careful what you say. That is the daughter of the Ren family in Jiangcheng, Uncle Han. You don't have to be afraid. Aren't they the Ren family? I am here today, and I am the head of the Ren family. You can't make too much trouble in person . Miss Guo really has a strong tone . According to me, I know that all the assets and financial resources of your country are far inferior to those of the Ren family behind Yuqing. I really don't know where you got the confidence to despise Yuqing and despise the Ren family. You stinky bumpkin knows a lot. What you said is true for our Guo family. Not as good as the Ren family , but coupled with the Chu family, the richest family in Yuncheng, my unmarried The heir of the wealthy Chu family returned to the family after being missing for many years. I, Guo Yawen, have been married to the eldest young master of the Chu family since childhood. In three days, I will marry into the Chu family and become the rich mistress of the Chu family. This is my confidence. I asked you whether it was enough or not for you, the elegant children. What you said was really natural. It's a real marriage certificate. It's in my house. It has the autographs of my father and the head of the Chu family, Chu Zhenghong. It's written in black and white . Uncle Han, do you think this can be fake? Wenwen, you mean you will marry in three days. Congratulations to a rich family for becoming the mistress of a billionaire. Wenwen's family background is rich . Better than me, I thought that marrying into the Han family would overwhelm Wenwen in terms of status and status , but I didn't expect that Wenwen was actually engaged to the richest man in the Chu family. If he became the young lady of the Chu family in the future, wouldn't it mean that I, Su Xiaofei, would still be the same even if I married Han Shaojie ? Bow down to him , Xiaofei, you don't have to envy me. Wait until I join the Chu family and become the daughter of the Chu family. Master, I will ask my husband to give more support to Shaojie's Tianyi Group. Don't talk about 1 billion loans and tens of billions of investments. Even if I inject 100 billion into Shao Jie's company, it is just me, Guo Yawen, acting coquettishly in front of my husband. Well , let me thank you first for Shao Jie, hahaha Wenwen Thank you so much . With your words, my dad no longer has to look at his family's face. From now on, the Yawen children and our Han family will all be counting on you . Don't worry, Uncle Han. But I only have one request : wait until I join the Chu family . I must also let Shaojie marry my best friend Xiao What's wrong with Fei ? Uncle Han, don't you want it? No, no Wenwen. Even if the Chu family and our Han family don't reach a cooperative relationship, I will definitely marry Xiaofei. You know my feelings for Xiaofei best. It's almost the same. What's going on ? Don't blame me. My dad ordered two for me. Don't be angry . I'll give it back. Miss Guo. I'm really sorry that we two are not suitable. What do you mean? I mean me. Are you fucking sick if you want to go back? The person this lady is going to marry is the heir to the richest young master of the Chu family . Do you still think that you are the eldest young master of the Chu family ? If not, it's Chu Ning. Are you trying to cheat? You even broke off the engagement and you don't even look at it. It all depends on your own virtues. If a man like you sticks to Wenwen, you are just an idiot. I really thought you were a monk. Why don't you believe it ? He is really Miss Ren. Do you think you are doing this? Is this a joke funny? I see you, you are just jealous of me. I am lucky enough to be able to join the Chu family and become the wife of the richest man . But it is too early for you to be jealous of me now. The day after tomorrow, Miss Ren is welcome to the Chu family wedding venue to witness the happiness of me and my husband. Don't worry. He will go, but before that, don't call a husband &quot;disgusting&quot;. I call my fiance what does my husband have to do with you, a loser ? No business, please get out of here right away. Don't get dirty. Xiao Fei and I are looking at each other. I think the person who made the mistake is you. This is my grandma's funeral. The one who should get out is you. Who are you? Come on, Xiao Fei, let's go, so as not to be tainted with bad luck . Looking at Su Xiaofei and Chu Ning, I have already announced my divorce from you. Why are you still calling me? Could it be that you are waiting for me to change my mind ? But I, Su Caofei, will never look back on my decision. You should give up on this idea. Are you crazy? I mean to remind you that I have to go back tomorrow to get my things. Hello, you virgin. You have some backbone. I tell you, give me your pile of rags. I don't even want a poor dog. I'm a poor dog with your pile. The tattered thing is surprisingly tight. Xiaofei is talking nonsense to him. Let's go. Why is this damn virgin so crazy today? She is so stubborn and dares to talk back to me in public. Brother Liu, I used to glare at him when I was angry. I don't even dare to breathe. I've come to beg me obediently to beg me for forgiveness. But Wenwen, you said that Miss Ren came from a wealthy family and couldn't think of becoming Chu Ning's wife. You also believe what I said. In my opinion, that's it. Miss Ren Overflowing with love , I cooperated with your good-for-nothing ex-husband who deliberately acted to annoy you. I don't believe that a wealthy daughter would be willing to marry a food delivery guy. The most he could do was just play around and wait for a few days. When he got tired of it, Ren Yuqing would naturally kick that good-for-nothing. I feel It's better not to mention him. I'll take you to have a big dinner to celebrate my best friend's divorce and escape from misery. It's a pity that Shaojie has something to do and has to go back with his father first. Otherwise, the three of us can have dinner together in the evening. It's okay. We two sisters are celebrating the same . It's just right. I want to congratulate you too. You are about to become the richest wife. I don't care about your wedding day. I will be your bridesmaid. Of course, my best friend will be your bridesmaid. Hmm Yu Qing. It stands to reason that if you haven't married yet, you don't have to wear sackcloth and mourning like Xiaonian. Uncle Chu, this is When Grandma Chu passed away , I, as my granddaughter-in-law, should be mourning and mourning. Even if we haven't married yet, it's rare for you to show filial piety. There is such a world of difference between people. You and that woman from the Su family are completely divorced. I still have some things to put away. in that I'll get married tomorrow at home . That'll be fine . You'll have the wedding in 3 days. Pick a time in the next two days to get the certificate. Yu Qiang, you have no objection. You just listened to Uncle Chu's arrangements. Well, you still call me Uncle Dad. That's pretty much it. Young Master Yongyuan Community has arrived. You should still look for it. place to park Come on, I'll go there by myself. All your things are here. From now on, you and I will have nothing to do with each other. I've thrown away the two sweaters my grandma sewed before she was alive. It 's bad luck. Su Xiaofei, do you know that grandma left those for me? The last thought is that you are not finished, right? It's disgusting to talk about a dead person all day long . You just want money. Take this money, give it to me, and get out of here. Why is it too little? This is a blank check. How much do you want ? You can fill in the numbers however you like, but I have a request . Then stay away from Xuefei. Mr. Han deserves to be a son of a famous family. He's really generous with his money , so I won't be polite. He 's such a loser with no ambition. I 'm busy now. Thank you for the 999.99 million. You're so damn poor that you can't afford the house. You have no money to chase me, right ? Ning, please stop. I know you are just angry with me and Shaojie. In fact, you don't have to be like this. If you want to scold me and blame me, just say it directly. No need to use these little tricks. Doing this will only make me look down on you even more. You are me, I am not worthy of you, but we are After all, I would like to give you a piece of advice before a husband and wife say goodbye. Don't covet things that don't belong to you. For example, the eldest lady may take care of you out of temporary sympathy. But do you think you can last long? I don't bother you to worry about that . Why is this young lady here again ? Isn't she tired of playing with her ? Get rid of the burden . Let's go . Chu Ning, get in the car and let's go to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get the certificate of young master. Did I hear it wrong? The eldest lady of the Ren family really wants to go with Chu Ning. When I went to get the certificate , I couldn't figure out who this young lady was. Are you blind? It's impossible to marry someone like Chu Ning. What is Miss Ren's identity ? Chu Ning is just a poor boy from the bottom of society. How could Miss Ren really get married with her ? I think they are deliberately trying to piss you off, so If you are really worried after just saying these words, let's just go and have a look . You are beautiful. Of course , take a picture. What are you doing? Miss Shi , you actually got the certificate with this waste. I don't understand what you are thinking. What does Chu Ning look like to me ? The clearest thing is that he is just a poor dog from the bottom, a useless loser with no ability and no future. He is not worthy of you at all. And you, Miss Ren, come from a wealthy family . Why would you lower yourself to marry her ? Are you not ruining yourself? Since you know me She is the daughter of the Ren family in Yuncheng. Then I ask you, what qualifications do you have to teach me what to do here? I and I, Ren Yuqing, don't have the power and shallowness to see people as you do . Let me remind you, Su Xiaojie, with your background and current social status, is not enough. to me Ren Yuqing's fiance is pointing fingers , so I warn you to show some respect to my future husband, otherwise don't blame me for being polite. Hahaha, why is Miss Yue so hostile? Xiaowei is also good. I sincerely advise you not to be deceived by some people with ulterior motives. Ms. Ren, who comes from a good family and is so good-looking, should have no shortage of men. Don't be cheap. Some people are too blind to see the real dragon. My husband's abilities are not those of you who are shallow-minded. People can know He's a real dragon, a loser who can't even afford a car. After he takes over as the lady after work, he may only be able to ride his crappy electric car. Who said that the one behind me without a car is the Rolls-Royce in front of the electric car , huh, hahaha, that's a big deal. Who wouldn't ? Do you think I would believe it ? Hello, Sorry, I just slipped the neutral gear and rolled away. Please see how much the damage is to the car. I will pay you compensation. Sorry, this car is not mine , it is my young master. For compensation, you should go to my young master. Your young master is me, but I am not interested in talking to you, Miss Ren. Now you know how disgusting he is You are here, but you are living in fantasy all day long, telling lies. Go get a divorce while you have just received the certificate. If you marry this kind of person, you will be the one you regret. Young Master, I asked the 4S shop just now. The damage to the car was about 520,000 yuan. Do you think how much compensation is appropriate for you? This is your car . Huh, that's wrong. How is this possible ? You're a food delivery guy. You can't even afford a car that costs tens of millions. If it's someone else, forget it . Mainly, we still know each other and are old acquaintances . Let's give you a discount of 500,000 yuan. How about a discount? Mr. Han can't afford it again, right? Just now you gave me expenses Chu Ning was a wealthy man when I was voting. Today, I admit defeat . You'd better pray that you let Miss Ren protect you for the rest of your life. Don't let others get tired of playing with you and pick you out like a bitch. I won't let you worry about me first. The car was repaired, Chu Ning, you are a bastard who only eats women. You idiot, I really don't know what you are so proud of. Do you think that I will regret divorcing you ? On the contrary, a wimp like you who only hides behind women will only make me feel sick. Also, you use the eldest lady's clothes all day long. I will be pressured by my identity. Wenwen will become the mistress of the Chu family after her wedding tomorrow . People who don't know the date of her death will think that you are marrying into the Chu family, and you, Miss Su, are you. Don't you think you are hypocritical? You keep accusing Chu Ming here of using my power to suppress you. Don't you think the same thing? You want to use the power of your best friend to take revenge on you. You are obviously worthless and you still have the nerve to insult others here. It seems. I have to take your car back today. What about the electric car you use to deliver food? Can you use it to take me home? You are here. As long as you don't dislike me, of course I don't dislike me. Unlike some women, as long as they are with the person they like, I am willing to take an electric car. Let's go . Bye. What he said is that the person who marries into the Chu family is not me after all. If the person who is engaged to Master Chu is me, If so, how could Ren Yuqing dare to show off to me and embarrass me? Even Han Shaojie and Guo Yawen had to bow and grovel in front of me. But why am I obviously prettier than Wenwen? Why is my life so much worse than Wenwen? Why can't I be the one who marries the young master of the Chu family? Am I, Su Xiaofei, I can only marry Chu Ming? Tan Shaojie is so popular. Xiaobei and the two of them can't stand each other for a few days. They can't wait until tomorrow. After Wenwen and Mr. Chu get married, our Tianyu Group will be able to get the tens of billions of investment. Even if he recognizes his family, he will have to surrender . I, Su Xiaofei, will never accept his fate and leave . Let's go and get the certificate . Jay, I 'm not in a good mood today. Let's get the certificate another day. It's also a matter of getting the certificate. We have to choose a good day. Let's go have a meal first and then fix the car for that loser. I know this young lady can be so bad-sighted . Can rubbish buy such an expensive car? Tomorrow, the richest man in Cloud City, Chu Zhenghou, will hold a wedding for his son at the Heshun Guodeng Hotel. It is said that the wedding will cost hundreds of millions, which is a great thing for the Chu family. What do you mean? Everyone in Yuncheng knows that I will marry into the Chu family tomorrow, but no one from the Chu family has been seen yet. We even know the wedding venue from the news. They don't want to go back on their word. They shouldn't, right? Head of the Chu family, what? I've always kept my identity , and besides, the whole city knows about the Chu family's wedding. If I regret it at this time, wouldn't it be a big joke ? Don't worry, the wedding will definitely be held tomorrow . What's the process ? What does my husband look like? When will the wedding car come to pick him up ? How many groomsmen are there ? I don't know yet . That's what I said . I'll call Professor Chu and ask who you are. The Chu family's wedding tomorrow is about nine. Brother, I'm sorry. I have something going on at home these days. My son and I have been so busy that I forgot to call you to inform you of my son's wedding tomorrow. You can just come over and have a wedding banquet, and I will make all the arrangements. Well, we have been friends for many years. You, as a distinguished guest, must come to support us. Haha, Xiangzhu Chu has already made arrangements. Then my daughter and I can wait for tomorrow's wedding with peace of mind . Oh , you can feel relieved this time. Hey, then I can feel relieved . Then I Just ask Xiaofei to accompany me to try on wedding dresses. Wenwen, your life is so good . Not to mention that you come from a famous family. You have been engaged to the richest young master since you were a child . You will soon marry into a wealthy family and have hundreds of millions of assets. How is it like me? Don't be sad because you foolishly married Chu Ning, that loser. Xiaofei, have n't you already gotten rid of Chu Ning, that dragster? And Shaojie also promised to marry you. Shaojie is good, but after all he is not as good as Chu Shao Xiaofei. The Han family's heaven is always content and happy Although Tianyu Group is not as rich and powerful as my husband's family, it is still ranked high in Yuncheng. And I will ask my husband to help Tianyu Group more in the future. Thank you Wenwen. Oh, by the way, Wenwen, you can save it too. Set up a contact information? Why are you calling my husband? Do you want to poach me ? How could that happen? Wenwen, you are my best sister. I would never poach you. I am just worried that something will go wrong before your wedding. I can't contact your husband. After all, you have to wear a wedding dress tomorrow and you can't hold your phone. I'm teasing you so much . We have been best friends for so many years. I must trust you unconditionally. But I don't have my husband's phone number. I have the phone number of the Chu family. We are all in direct contact with the Chu family. The Chu family can also give it to me quickly. Um, you can give it to me. Bring the phone to my son. Tomorrow you will get married and start a business. It's over now that this matter is over . It's a pity that my grandma can't see me anymore. My dad blamed me. If I had listened to you before, maybe my grandma wouldn't have been able to do it either. I won't talk about what happened in the past. Your wedding is coming soon . Please tell me , please be happy. Who are you? Are you the head of the Chu family? This is Su Xiaofei. She is the best friend of Guo Yawen, the eldest daughter of the Guo family. I don't know if you have seen Su Xiaofei. She is the head of the Chu family. I want to know if Master Chu is with you now or can you give me his contact information? I have something to say to him. It's Su Xiaofei. Tell me if I have anything to do with you, please leave it to me. Hey, I have something to do, Mr. Chu. Hello, my name is Su Xiaofei. I am your fiancee Guo Yawen's best friend. Maybe we have never met. Give me a few minutes . I have something to tell you . It seems that she doesn't know my identity . Tell me, Master Chu. I know you. I will marry Guo Yawen tomorrow But I want to advise you to think twice. She is my best friend and I know her best. She has evil views, is power-loving , and is not as good-looking as me. She is not worthy of you . It is best not to marry her. But my wedding will be made public tomorrow and you ask me not to marry her. What about her wedding tomorrow? Do it, I can't let all the guests from all over the place travel in vain. If I mean, if you don't dislike me, can you consider me? I have really missed you for a long time, Master Chu, I am really sincere to you , and my appearance is far away. I don't think I have a better figure than my best friend. If you don't believe me, I will send you the photo now and I promise that I will be a good husband and godson to you for the rest of my life. You will be a good wife for the rest of your life . You are such a good best friend. I don't want to say anything. In this case, I will let you know. Be a good friend You also asked Guo Yawen to see what her best friend is. Indeed, you are much prettier than her. Then I will send a wedding car to pick you up at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning as you said. You are waiting at home wearing a wedding dress . It's really cool. Master, you are saying that you are willing to marry me If you are willing to marry me as your bride, why not? You also said that your best friend Guo Ya is not good enough for me. I have no intention of marrying her . I will announce to everyone that you are my bride tomorrow. Okay, Master Chu, I will wait for you tomorrow, okay? You must send a car to pick me up, you brat. What are you doing again ? Is it possible that you are going to get back together with this poisonous man and make the same mistakes again? Have you forgotten how your grandma left? Of course I can't forget that since the day my grandma passed away, I can't forgive her for what happened tomorrow. I just want her to be safe. What you do To pay the price , okay, you have grown up, just watch the pie. Dad is worried that you will make the same mistake again. Mr. Liu will open the door to see who is coming . Uncle, cook , shallot, taste the sauce. Hurry up, sit down, hurry up and serve the tea. No need to bother that uncle, we are here this time. I heard that you came here specially with me Take a look at him. It's been a long time since you brothers have seen each other. Let's catch up on old times tonight. Even if your friends come to see you, you don't dare to say hello to the three losers. But there is nothing to win. I haven't contacted the three big guys in five years. Why did the young master think that he suddenly came to see me? Brother Ning, please don't bully us. Third brother, in front of you, who dares to be your eldest young master ? Five years ago, when you took charge of the Chu Group and were killing everyone in business , we were your most loyal subordinates. I haven't heard of you. I want to come back and find the Chu Group again , and I will do it tomorrow We have reserved a table at the Royal Hotel for our wedding. We want to celebrate it in advance for you and your sister-in-law. Miss, please be obedient. But what I despise most is that you guys have never given any help in the snow. Why bother to add more flowers? Hurry up and get lost. I have no time. No, you, this is too You can't blame us. It was the father of Chu who rained sand and rain on you back then . We don't dare to slander you. Besides, we have been helping you a lot these days. OK, help me. OK, help me. It's not that we take care of your business every time. When ordering takeout, we all name it and let you deliver it. I always give five-star reviews and five-star reviews. Hey, then I really want to thank you eight generations of ancestors. Okay, my dear, you guys, who have been friends for many years, how can you talk to Xiaotian like that? Besides, you can't blame them for this. It was me who ordered them to do it. Don't dare to contact It's yours, Xiaotian. On National Day, the three of you go to the hotel first. I'll let Xiao Ning come over later. Okay, uncle, Brother Ning, you must come. Sister-in-law, we have arranged to go to bed, right? Even if you don't We have to look at our sister-in-law's face as well. Oh, why don't you go away? Uncle, your brother is going home. Hey, you really want to sever ties with Xiaotian and the others. They are just a bunch of wallflowers. I've been hiding from friends like this for five years. Do you want to have anything to do with them ? Hey , you can't say that to Shen Xiaotian and the others. You can not give but their father But the founders who conquered the world with me are business tycoons from Yuncheng City and even Jiangdong Province. With the support of Mr. Yuan, won't it be much smoother for you to accept the work of the Chu Group and implement reforms? Okay, for your sake, dad. I'll go up there tonight Then let me tidy up first. I know that if I am so beautiful, any man will choose my Su Xiaofei. After tomorrow, you will be the guardian wife. By then, everyone and the Guo family will be trampled under my feet. Hahaha , calm down. Su Xiaofei, you must calm down. Don't get carried away, just in case you were on the phone just now The display window is just teasing you and you are not serious. Hello, is this Miss Su, Su Xiaofei? I am here to pick up Miss Su for the banquet on the order of Master Shen Xiaotian . Shen Xiaotian, you are saying that the son of Shen Chong, the head of the three elders of the Chu Group, is In addition to Mr. Shen, there are two young masters, Xu Changjun and Zhao Guoqing, who are also members of the Chu Group. The old sons are each worth tens of billions. The three young masters have always had a close friendship with Master Chu. Now they know that Master Chu and Miss Su are getting married tomorrow. A special banquet was held to celebrate the two newlyweds. You mean Master Chu will come too. Good morning. I heard that Shen Xiaotian and the other three are Master Chu's brothers. Now even they know that I'm going to become a For the bride at tomorrow's wedding, it seems that Master Chu didn't lie to me. He is serious. Wait for me a moment. I'll go change my clothes and I'll be out in a minute. The place where these three wallflowers invited me to dinner at Haitang Pavilion should be fine. Hello, please help me open the door. The door is broken hahahahahaha these three idiots don't know that I am divorcing Su Xiaofei They have designated Su Xiaofei as tomorrow's bride . If I reveal my secret tonight, tomorrow's scene will not be good. Hey, waiter, don't leave yet. Pour this tea. Congratulations to Miss Su. You will be there after tomorrow . When I become Mrs. Chu, I will share with Master Chu the trillions of assets of the Chu family. I don't know this. How many women are envious of you ? Well, thank you Mr. Shen. But Mr. Shen, why hasn't Mr. Chu come yet ? It should be soon. If I don't make a phone call , you're going to fucking kill me. Well, you, you, you, why are you here? Come and be a waiter. It's not enough to make some extra money. You three young masters , you eat well and drink well. If you have anything to do, just give me your orders. Say what you need to say and what you shouldn't say. Don't tell me. I understand. Hey, okay, okay . Then you eat slowly . You three young masters, I'll excuse you for a moment. What's going on? Brother Ning doesn't deliver takeaways anymore, but he's now a waiter. What do you know ? Let me see. Miss Su doesn't know Brother Ning yet. He is the heir to a wealthy family. I want to give him a surprise at tomorrow's wedding and reveal my identity . So just now Brother Ning He is pretending to be a waiter. What your brother just said must be a warning to us not to reveal his identity . It makes sense. It makes sense. Let's eat. Come on. Come on. Chu Ning, stop here. What's wrong? I don't know what you are doing here. What's the purpose? But I warn you not to publicize our relationship everywhere and don't let it fail outside. Ruining my reputation will prevent me from marrying into a rich family, otherwise I will never let you go. I don't want others to know that my Su Xiaofei's ex-husband is actually a loser who delivers food and works as a waiter. Don't worry about this. To me, this relationship between you and me is the same. I don't even care to get angry with others. Soon you will know what I am. Look, hey, Brother Ning, don't worry. What did you mean just now? We all understand your identity. We didn't tell your sister- in-law . You have some brains , but you are pretty good. You have been married for 5 years and your sister-in-law doesn't even know the identity of your richest heir. I really don't know tomorrow. I'm also very interested in what your sister-in-law's expression will be when she learns your true identity. Looking forward to something happening in the family, ancestors , grandsons and descendants are in front of the forest. Today, time is coming to announce the good news. Add a needle, incense, and pass on filial piety. Don't forget Guilin. Xian Gao, incense, tribute, and national sacrifice. Ancestors click on the cannon to announce the good news. New people pass on from generation to generation. The time is up. Fire cannon. Applause, Chu Yingshi, the grandson of your ancestor , grandma , is getting married today. She is a monastic grandson. The matchmaker is marrying the bride. You have seen the girl you personally selected that night. Master, the wedding has come . It's time to go. Let 's go. The show has begun . The auspicious time has come. The cannon has fired. Dad, what time is it? Why hasn't the wedding car come to pick me up? Silly girl . The wedding car probably just set off and is still on the way. You still have to wait for a while. By the way, that Xiao Fei is not you. The bridesmaid? Why hasn't she come yet? I just called him and no one answered. Let me try again. Wenwen. I'm sorry. Today's heroine can only be me. The one who married into a wealthy family can only be me, Miss Su Xiaofei. Okay, let's go. Do n't be in a hurry . Let's wait a while. Let's start again when the show starts. After all, the real bride Lin Yin is at the end. Why didn't Xiaofei come and answer my call? I guess he's helping out in the country. Don't wait. Let's go in first. The ceremony is about to begin. Okay, okay. Those fairy tales have always made people look forward to it, so when they grow up, Our groom has always dreamed of giving his beloved a fairytale wedding . Today is the moment when dreams come true. At this moment, I hope everyone will not look back and fix their eyes on the stage. Let us use grand applause to invite today's groom, Master Chu, to enter. This is the eldest son of the Chu family. As expected, he is very majestic. Although he is wearing a mask , he is from a wealthy family. The anger is still coming to my face. This is the young master of a wealthy family . The Han family is still a family, but love brings us closer together in the sunshine of love . Today, let us witness this happy and romantic moment together . Next, we invite today's heroine, our bride, to appear. This is the eldest lady of the Guo family. Guo, you are lucky. The young master of the richest family is your uncle. The Chu family is the emperor of our Yuncheng. Then you, the Guo family, will be relatives of the emperor in the future . Mr. Hou, don't forget us, brother, brother Han, don't worry. The first thing my daughter will do after she settles in the Chu family is to ask the Chu family to inject tens of billions of capital into Qianyu Group. Okay, thank you in advance. Hey Hey, beautiful bride, are you willing to stay with the man in front of you through thick and thin in the name of your wife? I am willing . Mr. Chu, are you willing to take care of the girl in front of you in the name of your husband? Hold your hand and grow old together with your son forever. I am not willing. Mr. Chu, what are you doing? It is the ancestral teaching of my Chu family to marry a wife and a daughter-in-law. However , the daughter of the Guo family, Guo Yaping, has bad conduct, is not upright , loses money, fails , is unkind and unjust, and is not worthy to be the wife of my Chu family. So today, in front of guests from all over, I personally announced the annulment of the engagement and I, the Chu family, have annulled the engagement. What's going on here, what about the wedding ceremony? Now that it has become the scene of annulment , can this wedding still be held? Of course it will be held, but the bride is not him, it is me. Of course it will be held , but the bride is not her, it is me, Xiao Fei, Xiao Fei Feifei, what is another bride? In this situation, who is the one today? The heroine Feifei, you haven't done this yet Understand? The one who is going to marry Master Chu today is me, Wenwen. Don't blame me. It's really not me who wants to steal your husband. It's the young master who chose me, Su Xiaofei. Didn't you agree to marry me? People go up and water goes down. The Han family is good at Chu Liu , but it is far inferior to the Chu family . The young master comes from a wealthy family and has a net worth of over 100 million. I, Su Xiaofei, am both talented and beautiful and deserve a better look at the entire Jiangdong Province . Only the Chu family is worthy of me. Your Han family is nothing compared to Young Master Chu. You promised to marry me ? I've spent so much money. That's enough. Miss, don't let me see it. If I can't afford you, it's all of your own free will and it has nothing to do with you. I advise you not to get too entangled . Today, I am Mrs. Chu. I have angered Young Master Chu and angered the Chu family. You should know in your heart what the consequences will be if you talk nonsense about Young Master Chu. The bride is me. How could he want you, his second daughter ? Nonsense, Master Chu personally told me on the phone yesterday that he wanted me to put on a wedding dress and be his bride. Master Chu is right here. If you don't believe it, ask yourself, he is right. Yesterday, he personally told me that you are my best friend. He's not good enough for me and he's willing to do bad things. Good Su Xiaofei, you are teasing my Han family like this , aren't you afraid that my Han family will retaliate against you? Su Xiaofei, you bastard, I regard you as my biological sister. If you try to steal my man, aren't you afraid of thunder and lightning? I won't let you go . Whatever, you guys have passed it anyway. Today I am Mrs. Chu. When the time comes, the Guo family and the Han family will all be stepped on by me, Su Xiaofei, this one. Bastard, you, you vicious woman, Su Xiaofei, Master Chu's trouble has been solved, should our wedding continue? Okay, but before that, you don't want to know who I am . Aren't you the richest heir to the Chu family, Master Chu? Yes, I am Master Chu, but I It's also Chu Ning, Chu Chuning, why are you here , Chu Chuning , Chu Chuning, why is it you, Master Chu? My husband is the richest man and the heir to the Chu family. The eldest young master, you bastard, what have you done to him? I am Master Chu , Master Chu is your fart. You are just a good-for-nothing loser. Master Chu is rich, honorable , honorable and majestic. But you are just a roadside street. How dare you call yourself Master Chu, a useless dog ? You are worthy of this. What's going on ? Isn't this Master Chu? Could it be that he is a fake eldest young master of the Chu family? He has always been mysterious and disappeared for many years. Very few people know Master Chu. Master Chu, Mrs. Chu. What happened? I am the general manager of Shunhe Pulsating. I will be fully responsible for the wedding of the two of you. If there is someone, If you dare to cause trouble at the wedding, you can tell me directly, Mr. Wang, that you came just in time for this person. If you don't believe that he pretends to be Young Master Chu, he is just a food delivery guy , you can ask them both and they can all testify that he is just a poor loser. The real Young Master Chu must have been kidnapped by him. It turns out it's you, the bastard, who is pretending to be Young Master Chu. I'll just tell you. The appointment with Master Chu is a matchmaker ordered by my parents. How could Master Chu humiliate me? It turns out it's you. A waste is causing trouble. Manager Wang, he is right. This waste is a food deliveryman. He is not Master Chu at all. He lied to us and made a big fuss at Master Chu's wedding. You must not let him go . Is that so? They said it well today. I did deliver food before. I was really a food delivery person. This bride has two grooms . It's a fake. Where is the real groom, Master Chu? Could it be that he really was kidnapped ? You brat, you are such a coward. How dare you impersonate Master Chu at a wealthy family's wedding. I think your life is doomed. Now take advantage of the fact that you are the head of the Chu family. If you don't tell me immediately where the real Master Chu is, I told you that I'm so resistant even when I'm about to die. Now that's the case Then I have nothing to say. Someone drag me out and beat me until he lets go. Stop. Shen Xiaotian is the only son of Shen Chong, the leader of the three giants of the Chu Group. It is said that the assets of the Chu Group exceed one trillion. The Chu family exclusively owns half of the shares and the other half. It can be said that these three giants are the only ones who can compete with the Chu family, especially Shen Chong. He is the head of the three giants in the business world of Yuncheng and is second only to Chu Zhenhong, the head of the Chu family. Mr. Shen is the troll tycoon. Your death has come. Mr. Shen is Master Chu's brother. You dare to pretend to be Mr. Chu and make a big fuss at the wedding. Mr. Shen must be sure. I won't let you go . Just wait here to die. Mr. Shen, you came just in time. That bastard just now was so bold. Wearing a mask, he pretended to be Master Chu and messed up the wedding. I have ordered his legs to be broken and sent to the Chu family. The following is a presumptuous offense . Netizen, you are so courageous. Do you know who he is? Kneel down and apologize. I don't care who he is. I just I know that today is the wedding day of the Chu family. The head of the Chu family chose to hold the wedding in my hotel because of his trust in me. I must be responsible to the end and this person took risks. Young Master Chong Chu deserves to be punished at the cholera wedding . If I don't agree with Young Master Shen, don't blame me for not giving you face today. You, Shen Xiaotian, can't save him. Then add me, Zhao Guoqing, son of Zhao Ling, founder of the Zhao Group, and myself, Xu Changjun. I went to the son of Xu Jiang, one of the giants, and all the sons of the three giants came. It was very lively. But I didn't know what the food delivery was. What is the background that makes the son of the three giants not hesitate to offend the Chu family but also protect him? My netizens know that the backgrounds of the three young masters are very deep. Ordinary people would not dare to offend you. But today I will let it go just because of you three juniors. I can't save him today, the juniors can't save us three old guys, what about the head of the Shen family, Shen Teng, the head of the Zhao family, Zhao Lin, the home family, the Xu family, and the others? Oh my god, the three giants of the Chu family and their entrepreneurial veterans are all here. Oh my god, what is the origin of this kid? These three young masters are just standing up for him . Now even the three giants of the Chu family are standing up for him. Is he really? It's the eldest son of the Chu family, shouldn't he? Why would the heir of this wealthy family go to deliver takeaways? Shen Chong of the Shen family sent a pair of blue dragons and jade phoenixes to Chu Ling's nephew . My nephew's wedding is auspicious . The Xu family and Xu Jiang gave him a special luminous pearl. The Zhao family and Zhao Lin gave a golden bull to wish the Chu spirit a happy marriage. The three giants actually came over to this loser to send congratulatory gifts to help with the wedding. Is it possible that he is really the head of the Chu family? How could this be possible? Xiaofei's ex-husband, a person I have always looked down upon, is indeed the young master of the Chu family. This is impossible. There must be a mistake . Chu Ning is a loser, a loser who delivers food, a poor loser who was abandoned by me. How could he be the eldest son of the Chu family ? It's impossible. They must have made a mistake . Could it be that I, the father, made a mistake too? They did it. Is it wrong ? Could it be that I, the father, am also wrong? He is the head of the Chu family, Chu Zhenghu, the founder of the Chu Group. He is really Master Chu . What did I just do ? My son Chu Ning keeps a low profile and few people know his identity, so no one is allowed to offend or question me. I can forgive him , but if anyone questions me again in the immediate future , and the identity of the heir of the Chu family, I will never be lenient if the master offends me , especially the employees of the Chu Group. Save my son's appearance because from now on, Chu Group will be controlled by my son Chu Ning. The Chu Group's 300,000 employees and trillions of assets are controlled by it. In addition, he is really the eldest son of the Chu family. I stole Master Chu's wife. How is this possible? The person I have always been thinking about and deliberately planned to marry is actually Xiao Fei's ex-husband, the guy I have always looked down on. Why did God give it to me? I shouldn't be like this when I make such a joke. It shouldn't be like this . Just now, you didn't believe that I was a beast. Now, do you believe it? Tiger girl, why didn't you tell me earlier? You should have told me earlier. You should know that if you had told me earlier, I would definitely treat your grandma well. I will never ignore grandma, and I won't leave you. That's enough, Su Xiaofei. In your eyes, what is love? What is marriage? What is business? It is the exchange of rights and interests. I use my gold and silver wealth to exchange for your false love. Su Xiaofei, I tell you that from the beginning, what you and I want are all the same. What I want is true. like me Chu Ning is a person who can ride an electric bike with me without disdain that I am a delivery person and insult me as a loser. This is the kind of pure and sincere love for you. Your eyes are filled with interests and your heart is filled with glory and wealth. Today you are You can leave tomorrow because I am Young Master Chu Shaolin. This makes me sick. It's ridiculous. Back then, you ordered your father to rebel against the family and gave me takeaways for five years because of a snake-hearted person like you. Should have seen clearly earlier I should have divorced you long ago. I beg you to give me another chance. Let's live a good life like before. I will definitely treat you well this time. I will never let you down again. Give you a chance. What about grandma? Can you give grandma a new life? Opportunity? so You told me on purpose that you were going to marry me. You made me come here in a wedding dress on purpose. You wore a mask on purpose to show your identity. You were retaliating against me. Yes , after grandma's death, you did. You deserved to be deceived . I just wanted to Your best friend wants your Bai Yueguang and even everyone to see how ugly you are You have an evil face , Master Chu . Master Chu, you have always been my fault. I am Su Xiaofei, this bitch. It is Su Xiaofei, this bitch who lied to me. It is Su Xiaofei who said you are a wimp . It is Su Xiaofei, this dirty woman, who misled me . I am not sincere . I really want to marry you , please don't break off the engagement, okay ? Will you continue to marry me? It was Su Xiaofei who killed your grandma. You can't hold grudges against me just because I'm your best friend. I beg you, Master Chu, just marry me. I'm different from Su Xiaofei, this bitch daughter. I will treat her well. I will be a qualified wife for you. I will treat you extremely well and marry you. Do you think I can still marry you? The fact that someone like you can be friends with Su Xiaofei shows that you two are the same kind of people and value rights equally. It's disgusting . Master Chu, I 'm different from him . Master Chu, it's true that I'm different from him. Do n't want it. Disturb me from marrying a real wife. There were some incidents at the wedding today. But isn't life like this? It won't always be smooth sailing. But after the storm, a rainbow will come. Then let's use applause to invite the real bride to enter. Jade Xiang is the secret left by grandma. I will take you and your wife to the next life . From now on , you She is the wife of my beloved Ming Matchmaker , who is also the only heroine in my family, whom I call the heroine. Kiss her early in the morning. Come and kiss her. Come and kiss her. Kiss her. Kiss her. Kiss, kiss, kiss, come here to be a professional, please stay and ask for Master Su. I have blamed my godson for his incompetence in the past. Today, I specially brought him here to apologize to the master. The traitor still knelt down. I am not angry enough with you. You really want to kill me, the Han family. I'm so happy, Chu Ning . I'm sorry, I was blind before. I apologize to you . Master Su, don't leave. Before you left, you were Wan'er. She was blind . It's obvious that adults don't remember the faults of villains. Don't be like her. I guarantee that I will fight back hard against him in tonight's game. But I hope that this matter will not affect the cooperation between our two families. Thousands of employees in our group are still waiting for Master Chu's tens of billions of investment. No need to wait, I have already ordered the alley. Hey, Master Chu, you can't cancel it . Our group is in need of this investment during difficult times. Please go. Hey, Master Chu, give us another one. This is a chance, you , my bastard, my bastard, I'm going to ruin your relationship with you. You're here. It's okay. You're busy with your business. I'll just take a look. Then you can do it yourself. I still have two documents. After I've read them, son, I heard that the Imperial Capital Changming Group has A new energy project has sent us a request to jointly develop it with us. I think it's pretty good. Changming Group is one of the top ten companies in the country and has strong strength . I also think it's the founder of Changming Group. I have been an old friend for many years. What do you think? In fact, I have already researched this cooperation. Changming Group wants to cooperate with us , but it has to pay a salary of 100 billion in advance. If we don't look at this project alone, let's talk about Changming Group. You'd better take a look at the investigation report on the establishment of a group enterprise. This document is the first-hand information I obtained through special channels. It shows a long Although the Ming Group looks glamorous on the outside , it is actually riddled with holes inside. Especially this time, they have suffered heavy losses due to their large-scale blind expansion abroad. Their liabilities have reached hundreds of billions and they are also involved in many international relationships . Therefore, I judge that the Changming Group has already On the verge of bankruptcy, although they want to cooperate with us on the surface, it is actually a cover. Their real purpose is to defraud our Chu Group of thousands of dollars. If we really agree, we will lose everything. At this moment, you dare to lie to me and lose money. He and I have been friends for many years. It seems that your father is really old. Fortunately, we have you. Otherwise, our group But the losses are heavy. Dad, don't say that. You are in the Spring and Autumn Period now. Guild. Stop talking. Dad, I know in my heart that you are more capable than me in running a business. There are so many , so I will no longer have full authority to handle the group 's affairs in the future. Don't get too happy . I can take care of the group , but I will take care of the family affairs. I heard from Yuqing that you haven't come back after several days of marriage . Your father-in-law has called me. I tell you to take a rest tomorrow no matter what. Your father-in-law has prepared a banquet for you at Genting International to entertain your new son-in-law , so don't go anywhere tomorrow Just go and have dinner with your old husband. I'll listen to your arrangements. Brother-in-law, Xiaoya, why are you here ? Brother-in-law, are you confused? My sister asked us to come for dinner. Brother , eldest sister, eldest brother-in-law, parents, and grandpa, they all came and said they wanted to. Thank you for lending him money. What money did you borrow ? Brother-in-law, don't you know? I heard that Sister Xiaofei got in touch with the Changming Group of the Imperial City through an old classmate and had the opportunity to participate in investing in a new energy project developed by the Changming Group. explain It is 100% profitable. My sister has been borrowing money everywhere these days to seize this opportunity. My father and others have sold all the houses in their hometown. My brother and eldest sister and brother-in-law have also taken out all the capital they have saved over the years. What about grandpa ? I invested money in. Grandpa mortgaged his ancestral home to the bank to collect 1 million. How can grandpa do this stupid thing? Oh, brother-in-law, how can you say that to grandpa? Oh , by the way, sister, aren't we with you? In fact, your sister and I are Brother- in-law, you don't need to say anything. I know it must be my sister who is being cruel to you again. She said you are incompetent and can't earn money by delivering food. My sister is just too vain. I think you are very nice, considerate, warm and thoughtful. To take care of my sister, I also want to find someone as good as my brother- in-law . Don't you dislike me for being poor? You think it's embarrassing for me to deliver food to you. How can I have enough money? You are my brother-in-law and a member of our Su family. You have me. With grandpa I don't think anyone dares to refuse to welcome you. Just go in with me, brother-in-law. Is n't this the famous beauty of our company, Su Xiaoya? Aren't you usually quite aloof? When I introduce someone to you, don't say that you don't want to fall in love. Behind the scenes, you are stoic. Oh, no, I still cannot live without men . Haha, good guy, he is still a married man. I am Xiaoya . Are you cheap? My husband's brother is a serious single and high-quality man. You look down on him and come to seduce this married man. Be a mistress Tian Anyi , please stop talking nonsense. He is my brother- in-law. That will make things even more explosive. My sister-in-law is seducing my brother-in-law. Are you saying that if I go back to the company and spread the word to you, will I be a big mess? Hey, are you looking for trouble ? So what? My husband is right here. You If you dare to hit me, then forget it and become your brother-in-law. Her husband is an executive of the Chu Group. He is usually domineering and annoying, but because of his power, no one dares to provoke him. Hey , why don't you do it ? Weren't you very arrogant just now? How dare a poor boy like you do it in front of me? If you don't want to die Kneel down and apologize to my wife immediately, otherwise I won't let you die in an ugly way, right? You are really a senior executive of the Chu Group. Listen to me. I am Sun Baoan, who is near the sales department of Geely Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of the Chu Group. Our boss, Shen Xiaotian, is Master Chu's If I offend you, brother, I am the same as provoking Shen. I always offend Master Chu. I have a hundred ways to make your life worse than death. I said, why don't I know ? It turns out he is a deputy manager of the uterus or a deputy deputy manager. What's wrong, the deputy manager is also a Who do you think you are as a leader ? You thing, you dare to look down on my martial arts skills. It doesn't matter if I tell you, I am the president of the Chu Group. You are leading your farts. You think I am an idiot. Xiaoya, look at what idiot you have found. He dares to say anything to Qi Fu Shen Yong, Chu Group. The power of the group is so huge that you will offend me by doing this. Don't worry, I've got you covered . If you don't believe it, you can give Shen Xiaotian a call and you'll know if I'm lying to you. You think I'm stupid. We, Mr. Shen, have everything to do. I'm going to disturb him just because of this little thing. Then I'm not looking for a slap in my face. Okay , since you If you don't fight , I'll take your place. You, Chen Yaotian, give you three minutes. Genting International, come here and take care of your dog . Who? Come to Genting International in three minutes to take care of your dog. Brother Ning , what's the matter? Mr. Shen, Mr. Shen, your clothes. Mr. Shen, why are you here? Hello, Mr. Shen, please repay this beating. I am Ping An's wife. Get out of here ! Brother Ning, you are looking for me. Shen Xiaotian, he is yours. You are so presumptuous. Who do you think you are? But Mr. Shen's name is taboo. You deserve to be called you. Shut the fuck up . You idiot, you want to kill me ! Brother Ning, don't you have these men? If you have long eyes, I will immediately ask him to apologize to you and suspend him from work to reflect. Shen Xiaotian, I think you are the one who should reflect. You just recruited these rubbish into the company. You are so in charge of the company. Don't come here in the second half of the year. Just stay at home and watch the movie. Hey, it's not me, Brother Ning. Hey Brother Ning, Mr. Shen, he Could it be that it's really Master Chu Chu? I'm the size of your mother. You're such an idiot . You 're really the president of the group. You dare to mess with me. I've been tricked to death by you . I don't have to go to work today. I won't have to go to work in the future . Brother- in-law, the one named Shen Xiaotian just now seems to be very afraid of you. do you know him You know me, and now I'm the president of a serving group. His father has to stand in for me , not to mention him. Okay , brother-in-law , stop teasing me. Do you know how big a company the Chu Group is? The richest man in Jiangdong has assets worth trillions. Even if the city government of Yuncheng City has no money, he has to ask. Chu Group borrows money to pay wages If you are the boss of such a dominating big company, how can you possibly like my sister? Grandpa, sister Xiaoling, come on. I haven't seen you for a long time. I haven't seen you for a long time . Oh, by the way, you guys go up first. I'll see you later when I'm done. Why are you delivering food again? I 'll take a day off today to have a meal with grandpa. Grandpa, don't worry. Xiaofei doesn't dare to talk about you because I'm here. Haha, okay, Xiaoya, you can take grandpa up first. Your brother-in-law and I still have a few dollars , okay, sister. Hurry up and leave. My grandpa doesn't know about us yet. I will find an opportunity to tell him about today's family dinner . My grandpa insists that you attend . You just look at the old man's face. Who can send it to you? Sister, why did you bring this waste? Sister, why did you bring this waste too ? This is a seven-star hotel and a Sit down with a food delivery guy and let's all follow the price change. There's no room for him here. Let him get out of here . Shut up. Xiao Ding, come sit here. Come over here, Grandpa, just face him. He's a stinky wimp who delivers food . I really don't know you. What's there to pick apart and look at? It's quite neat. During this dinner, your eldest brother-in-law said that he bought grandpa a century-old ginseng worth 200,000 yuan . Grandpa likes you so much . What kind of gift did you buy to honor grandpa? You didn't bring a gift for grandpa, right? You are an unfamiliar wolf and your grandpa is blind to you. Well, forget it, just say a few words. Xiao Ning, don't listen to their grandpa. He lacks nothing and doesn't need gifts. Grandpa, my brother persuaded me to come here in a hurry this time and I didn't prepare a gift. But I bought this jade ring not long ago and gave it to me today. I'll give you a broken jade ring. It looks like a street stall . You have the nerve to give this garbage away. Xiaofan, don't feel bad, old man. It's just garbage. If your grandson smashes it, he'll smash it. It's not a valuable thing. Come sit, sit, sit, sit, dad, grandpa, daughter, son-in-law , come and sit quickly. This is a pure texture. Dazzling and dazzling, this is the top This piece of jade ring made of super imperial green is worth at least tens of millions. What kind of idiot dropped it? This piece is worth at least tens of millions. What kind of idiot broke it? Brother-in-law, is this really that valuable? Nonsense, brother-in-law, I have been playing with jade for decades and it has never happened. It's fun to play I don't know which idiot trash broke such a valuable thing. It's broken. It means he has no connection with our Su family. Come on, come on. Son-in- law, hurry up and sit down . Everyone is here , Xiaofei, everyone is here for you. You can say a few words about what happened . I'll be here. First of all, thank you all. My grandfather mortgaged my ancestral home for me, my parents also sold the house for me , and my brother and brother-in-law gave me all their savings to collect the 10 million. But don't worry, I guarantee that the 10 million you have collected will be within one year. Get back your money You are really so confident, Xiaofei, after getting 10 times in three years , because ranked among the top ten in the country. At its peak , the market value was twice that of the Chu Group. In terms of foundation and energy, the Chu family cannot match it in the future. Ah, we make money with Changming Group. The benefits and returns are immeasurable. I am confident that within ten years, ordinary wealthy families will have it. I, Su Jie, have a good place. You said it well. Second sister, your brother-in-law and I will invest another 5 million. I will invest another 100,000 and I will invest another 30,000. Being ambitious is certainly a good thing , but the prerequisite must be comparable to it. Otherwise , I will harm others and myself. What do you mean ? You are saying that I am not capable enough . No, I am just reminding the world that there is no free lunch. Especially what he said about Changming Group, which looks glamorous but is actually on the verge of bankruptcy. Chairman Li Changming is now looking for someone to calm him down. Shut up. Chairman Li is a big shot in the imperial capital and someone you can offend. What are you doing with this loser? He is just afraid that you will dump him when our Su family gets rich in the future, so he deliberately curses you like this. You loser is just not looking forward to it. Look at the Su family, hurry up and get out of here. I don't have your bread, old man. I know you are protecting him , but he offended the big shots in the imperial capital. If you continue to protect him, won't you delay the bright future of your grandchildren? Okay, then let me go. Humph , brother-in-law, I'll go with you. Let's go downstairs and open another table. What I'm saying is, get out of the Genting International Hotel. It's not owned by your family. What right do you have to say anything about me? I'm like this Does the lobby manager here have the right to tell him to go away? Lao Wang, I just received the message you sent me and I came up to wait for me to drive him away . Let's have a glass of wine together, old classmates, hahaha. Well, Genting International is a seven-star. The hotel only accepts people with distinguished status . Staying here as a delivery boy will only lower our grade and damage the image of our hotel. So get out of the hotel immediately and let me get out of you. I'm afraid the little lobby manager doesn't deserve to be so loud. Since you are so shameless , then don't blame me for being rude. Someone, come and throw him out. Stop, Mr. Wang, why are you here? You bastard, Master Chu. How can you insult Master Chu? Madam and Mr. Ren have been waiting for you for a long time. Please move to the top of Genting to accept Genting International's grandest reception. Xiaoya, come up with me. Okay, Su Xiaofei, I'm still here. That's the saying. Be content and never covet things beyond your abilities. Although Changming Group's project is tempting , it is actually a trap. According to my understanding of Changming Group, their current financial situation is simply not enough to support such a large project. If the project is invested at this time, it is more likely to be lost. I have said this, you are your own master, I left Shu Ning, even if you are the Chu family The introducer is also ashamed and proud. One day, I, Su Xiaofei, will definitely surpass you , Xiao Fei. What the hell is going on? Mom, don't worry. After this project is completed, our Su family will become prosperous and reach the sky in one step. I will send all the money to you now. The transfer is successful, Xiao Fei. This money has been transferred. This is all the money of our Su family. Please call Mr. Li of Changping Group to confirm. Are you busy if you don't answer the phone? Xiaofei, we were deceived. I just learned that Li Changming's family donated money and ran away. Changming Group is insolvent and has been sealed up by the court and declared bankrupt. How could this happen?