- What's surprising at least to scientists is that the benefits right from the beginning. You can do for example, mindfulness- that's a very popular meditation. If you do mindfulness or 10 minutes three times something remarkable And it has to do with multitasking these days. People on average look at their they look at their Facebook and that's just the tip of the iceberg. There's Instagram, there's whatever it is you have to do. And what this means for attention that focused attention However, we need that focus So it's a real problem. And meditation it turns has some of the answer- it goes like this. When you're really intensely you have to do or you want to do, the paper you're writing or then you think, &quot;Oh, I And then that leads to your Facebook, and that leads to the phone The brain actually does doesn't do several things rather it works in serial from one thing to the next. Then when you go back to that project or that whatever it was your concentration had before you started doing the other things, now it's much lower and it to that same level. Unless, and this is so interesting, unless you've done that focused on your breath, for in and out. Noticed when your mind That's the basic move in meditation. And if you do that, it of practice nullifies that And this works, for example, for people who might do mindfulness in the morning, it will wane during the course of the day but if you do 10 more minutes at lunch, 10 more minutes at a break it helps you through the So that is a very palpable concrete payoff from daily meditation There are many others too for example, in terms of handling stress. I mean, we're all stressed out these days. Beginners in mindfulness or right from the get-go have What that means is that, and we see this in brain function, the area of the brain called the 'amygdala,' for the fight or flight It's what makes us angry all of a sudden or anxious all of a sudden. The amygdala is quieter, it's and this lets us be calmer And this is another benefit that we see right from the beginning. Because meditation has with anxiety and depression where that's being looked into, one of the areas that's with attention deficit disorder. In a way, this is a no-brainer because at base in essence, retrains attention. And what attention deficit disorder is is a problem with attention. So there's now a whole mainly with kids because it's where ADD tends to show up first, where they're helping them strengthen the muscle of attention. I was in a classroom of this is a very impoverished And those kids live in housing projects, they have very troubled lives. And some of them had ADD. In fact, half the kids in that classroom had what are called &quot;special needs&quot; ranging from ADD to autism. I thought the classroom but actually the kids And the teacher said, here's why. And then they did their daily ritual of what they called &quot;belly buddies.&quot; Each child one by one went to their cubby, got a favorite little stuffed animal, found a place to lie down on a rug, put that animal on their belly, and then they listened to through watching belly fall on the out breath. 1, 2, 3 on the in breath, This is basically the or meditation for kids. You know, in cognitive science we'd say, this is the training of attention. So you can do it with very young kids, and this helps them get to concentrate. Attention deficit disorder to control your mind wandering off from what you're paying attention to. Every time you watch your belly rise and then your mind wanders off and you bring it back to your belly, you are strengthening the neural circuitry for focus and countering mind-wandering- so this seems very promising. And early studies, early counter the problems kids face in ADD. And I'm very happy to say that We're waiting for those results, but I think they are promising.