This video is going to be all about the Evan's chess openings for white. I will show you all the important ideas, strategies, And plus, I also have a really interesting Let's see if you can solve that. So stay tuned till the end and keep watching We start with the Italian game. E4, E5, knight f3, knight c6. Then we get the bishops out, turning it into Now the Evans Gambit starts with the move counterplay. From here, black has 3 options. He can take with his bishop, he can take with bishop to some other square. The most common would be to take this pawn with his bishop. We will discuss the other 2 options later on As white, our objective is to distract the by playing the pawn c3. Black will have to retreat his bishop since Taking it back to f8 does not make much sense. Moving it to d6 isn't good either since it the development of this bishop. So basically, black has 3 logical replies Let's look at bishop e7 first. I won't be getting into all the specific lines But I will show you all the major ideas and match winning positions. The most important thing that you need to punches at black. You cannot afford to take it easy since at so you will need to keep attacking to open Okay, so bishop e7, then we play d4, attacking the center. If black takes, then we can take back and compensation. We are occupying the center. Our pieces are in attacking positions. We are one move away from castling. We can look to target this weak f7 square And we should be using this bishop to prevent So we have a good game here. Going back, if we play queen b3, eyeing down this weak f7 square. Now if knight a5, then we simply take with It's a check. He can't go to d7 because knight e5 check, D takes So he will have to move his king to f8. But then, we have this beautiful move queen a4. And even if king takes, we can take his knight. And if you see now, the material is even, castle, we are ahead in development so this Going back, in this position, if he tries something like Then we can simply remove this defender by Now after pawn takes back, bishop f7 check. If king d7, then queen e6 is a checkmate. And if king moves to f8, then we will take the next move. It's going to be very difficult for black Going back, so we just saw what we can do if black Now let's look at the most common move that And you have some really nasty tricks here. But wait, are you enjoying this video? If yes, then hit the thumbs up button right It really motivates me to provide more quality Okay, so its bishop a5, then we play pawn to d4, attacking the center. If d6, then simply queen b3 and you can continue Okay, now if he takes with his pawn, then is pinning this pawn to our king. Now if he decides to take another pawn, which Let's see how. After pawn takes on c3, we will again play Black has to prevent this f7 check so he basically has 2 options - queen f6 and queen e7. Queen f6 seems better since it will also protect But then, you can simply play pawn to e5, If knight takes, then rook e1 pinning it to If he tries to defend with d6, then queen go back and look at queen e7 in this position. Black is giving up this pawn so let's take Then you can expect knight to f6, a natural up these 2 squares for the king to castle. We need to stop black from castling so let's If knight takes, then we recapture with our Taking with the pawn is better because not opens up this line for our rook to attack So eventually, the knight will have to move. Knight b4 will be a disaster for black because will be gone.Going back, if he moves his knight then we have this bishop b2 move to attack If he plays queen g5 to support this pawn, from castling by playing queen a3. We will also look to push this queen out of And at some point, we will launch our attack As you can imagine, these guys are going to it's just a matter of time before you finish just wanted to show you one more move. In case, black decides to take on e4 with bishop g5. What this does is that it puts additional manages to castle, we will be able to take queen with our knight. Going back, even if he plays something else, rooks in order to pin down this queen. So again, you have a lot of attacking options now let's go back again. We just saw how you can absolutely destroy But what if he plays some other move like Well, your strategy is going to be simple. You will look to take back this pawn. Your queen will soon be out on b3 to attack You will have to prevent black from castling These knights should also be moving closer And ultimately, you will have to open up the e file. If you follow these ideas, you should be able now let's go back. We have looked at bishop e7, we have looked Now let's look at the bishop c5 move. But before moving on, just a reminder. In case you haven't yet Subscribed, then hit you get all our channel updates.So black plays d4. E takes on d4 is forced, c takes on d4. And his bishop will now have to move. And you will see a similar situation as I to b6. As you can tell, he will be losing time and We can bring our queen into action, we can be moving to c3. This bishop is also ready to jump to any square We have great center control, great development. All in all, this is very good compensation what happens if black takes with his knight, After knight takes on b4, we play c3. Please do not take this pawn on e5 because queen f6 and queen g5 can lead to some really nasty threats and double attacks. So after pawn c3, The black knight will have to retreat back to c6, pawn on d4. Taking with the knight is generally not a which helps white in development. Okay, now declines to take your pawn and retreats his Well, in that case, you do not lose a pawn means he falls behind in development and your From here, you just need to follow some basic can check out in this video by tapping on Okay, so It's puzzle time. But before moving onto today's chess puzzle, learn some cool chess tricks and become a to our channel right now. And don't forget to hit the bell to turn on Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this I am reading all your comments &amp; will give so don't forget to share your answers in the All the best guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, yet Subscribed, then Subscribe now. Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my