(relaxing music) What's been very sad to see in La Jolla is people coming into a site The true uniqueness of this home is how they took care to blend it Designing and building It requires abundance of resources, meticulous planning, These qualities, balanced well, can transform an idea And that's what we're looking at today. A home that serves as an homage to the past, but continues Design that's striking yet minimalist creative approach that looks at a home So without further ado, let's go (upbeat music) All right, everyone. Once again, welcome I'm beyond excited. For today's tour, we're checking out this amazing architectural home that features Board form concrete walls, cantilevered And it also comes with an amazing story, which I'm really excited Now, I'm currently on the We have the gates opening up And that driveway brings You can easily park 15 to 20 cars here. This section is also hedged, Also comes with a top And right before you you actually go They have recessed in floor lighting, so at night, this space It also houses the two car garage And that's basically And that's the entry right there. Now, I want to bring everybody to this urban garden here with a Japanese black And this landscaping detail here really blends in with the architectural On the back, you can see the stucco finish which we're going to see And it's just a nice industrial, strong texture that really complements Now let's go to this side. This is actually, a gate that moves. - [Mikey] Really? Yeah. closed for now because you can access driveway in case you have events and you But we wanted to have it on this side because we also have another Looks beautiful. You have the cedar paneling Board form concrete wall continues. And then we come to the entry. Now, I'm really going to take my time This is where you get your first peek and to bring that they placed this beautiful water feature, curved it really nicely That takes you to the oval garden, which And it sets this amazing tone Now, I also really like how the water reflects on this board from concrete wall, they even incorporated the steps I mean, this entry is amazing. You have the Pacific Ocean, Then you look at the home and you realize that second floor And even though it looks like it's resting They used that space to place clerestory and ventilation to the lower level, And on top of that, right behind me, is one of the three cork oak trees When they designed this home, they built And that's why they called I wanted to mention that. Now, follow me this way. Coming to the entry, we have a glass So it was really important from the moment you step onto the property to the moment that that whole transition As you walk in the front door, As you walk through the house, You hear sounds of water. You had to feel I really, Every room you're in has that makes you feel Now, off of the foyer we have honed limestone floors, plaster walls, And before we continue our tour here, for a second because on my left hand side, we have this that leads you to the lower Between the board form, It's just a really nice frame. Now, coming back to the entry and going to the other side, Circular table in the center, You have a service counter here Really nice bar display. More built ins here. And yeah, this is your dining room. Now, right in the center we got this gorgeous Steinway &amp; Sons piano, And behind me is the staircase Off of the foyer, it goes This is actually not the main staircase. We're going to see the main Now, follow me this way. Beautiful seating area. This is technically your Love the coffee table in the center. Few chairs, couch, and, can we cover this floating gas fireplace. I love the design around the fireplace, So from the exterior, And obviously, from the interior, Then you have your comfortable seating. Then the entire room is surrounded That's the Pacific Ocean right there. Down below us is the oval garden. And this is just beautiful. Now, if all that wasn't enough, plus feet above the garden Looking at this room from the exterior In fact, right behind me is also the second cork tree that they And having a picture window here, seeing your main patio, I'm out of words, and I feel like this At another property in Hollywood Hills. Belgave. Oh, yeah. that was like this that can - [Mikey] Yeah, I remember But instead of views of the ocean, you - [Enes] That's correct. before we leave this room, We have five bedrooms, six full, 11,239 square feet of interior space built on a 66,646 square foot lot And I want to give big thanks Ross Clark and Brett Dickinson We're really excited to be in La Jolla. you can find more information about this Now, let's continue our tour back to the foyer, because we have a couple On this side, there's actually a small hallway here And then this door right here Two washers, two dryers, cabinetry and Now follow me this way. Look at the length of this hallway. Takes you all the way to the primary But before we continue, I want to go this way so we can check Onyx vanity, that's fabricated. Mirror is nicely Same limestone floors are also here. Just a really nice powder bathroom. Now let's go back to the main space. There's actually a butler's kitchen here. But first, let me bring This is definitely It houses the kitchen, On each side, we have massive sliding glass doors, seamlessly opening On the back, we have the backyard, and on the front, we have the views cantilevered roof lines, wood plank ceilings that run Honed limestone floors. A lot is happening in this room, but I just love how it's And you can simply walk outside This is lovely. What makes this property is the privacy, security, with this phenomenal view is just What makes La Jolla So the topography of La Jolla gives And this one sits at the crown. It's really the crown jewel - [Mikey] Obviously, your but I'm really intrigued by what Oval Garden. I haven't been down there yet. I'm sure the house looks - [Enes] Oh, the architecture of this And I feel like the design team here had the opportunity to go all out And that's why when you look around, clerestory windows, which are motorized, Then you look over here, you have this beautiful patio And you may think this is just another If you look at this house from a bird's of the water feature matches the lines It's continuous. - [Mikey] I actually noticed that I thought that was really To me, I love details like that. I love attention to detail like that. And this property is all about it. Now, we have the same Even the grout lines are matching Then in front of us we L shaped couch, coffee table, Even these chairs are so elegant Then you come over to this side. This is 130 inch TV wall, Not to mention we have Bang &amp; Olufsen You can have beautiful screen savers like Down below is another And even here, with a limestone bottom Then you have Texas limestone You even have mood lighting detail above. And this is just the family room. - [Mikey] I love the color palettes and materials So warm. I always love kind And then they have these splashes of white, which I guess - [Enes] Not only that's, a great point. They also brought a lot of organic Ceiling is all cedar then you have this live edge walnut dining table right You have a brass chandelier above. In fact, they brought some of the brass It actually helps it join. These two slabs together. Just a lovely space where you sit down, And looking around the room, I think I talked about it earlier, These windows are motorized, so push of a In fact, you can program them in a way of the home, they will automatically open of balance out the room Pretty amazing. so the windows will automatically open Correct. That's pretty interesting. Yeah, for sure. - [Enes] Now, another thing I want to talk This property has Lutron and they also happen to be Now, I'm not saying this because they're sponsoring our video, whether it's in Los Angeles or around the Yeah, I think one of the on our channel when we tour modern in this glass box with all Correct. I mean, we're currently in a great room sliding glass doors opening up But obviously, they have built in shades, They provide these seamless shades that integrate into your That way you can just operate them. They don't architecturally They're extremely quiet, that comes into a room, or you can Another thing I want to mention, you can control every single In fact, a lot of the times when we As you can imagine, if you try to turn off every single Right? But with Lutron, you go to the entry, and Lutron turns off the entire house for Not only that, but throughout each space, Correct. you can change the mood without having Exactly. Yeah, for sure. That way you can just press a button, whether it's no dim lights and cove certain lights on and have You get all those functions Now, Lutron has over 15,000 They're sold in over 100 countries. They've been in the business And just in the US alone. I believe they help customers save which equals to $1 That seems hard to fathom. Yeah, right? Big thanks to them We're going to put their links in the And let's continue our We have a massive island up front, Taj Mahal quartzite countertops, bar Then you come over here. This is super cool. This is a pop up drawer Oh, really? And it's just a nice, clever detail. Push of a button, it just goes up. I feel like that's rare. I don't really remember Maybe we saw it in one house. But we saw it at one house. I'm trying to remember which one, We toured too many After 100, 200 properties, There you go. La Cornue rotisserie. It's an appliance. And I'm sure you can cook It's an interesting take Now, before we continue, I actually forgot That's the elevator landing on this level. And we have a Butler's pantry here, conveniently located close Same cabinetry. You have another sink here, It's a nice feature, for sure. Now, going back to the kitchen, You have Wolf built Then you have your Wolf gas stove here. Same Taj Mahal quartzite is also on this You have your vent nicely hidden into the cabinetry, Let's see. Obviously, your sink is And, knock knock, dishwasher. It's always nice to have That's it for your kitchen. Obviously, it looks and the family room And now let's check out the backyard. Yeah. First we have this cover section here, And look at this space. I mean, it's beautiful. So private, all these trees. And check this out. I got a really cool story. This neighborhood or this They were raising trees here, and then later on, it was And before this home was They had an older home here, and within that property, they had these By the way, this is the first time It's a very grand and just And they wanted to protect these three One behind you, Mikey, one here, and we saw the other one off Yeah, and they built In fact, they were so committed Look at the roof line right there. They've literally curved That way a tree can still grow How amazing is that? - [Mikey] Yeah, that's pretty cool. I didn't notice the curve in the roof. When I was looking at photos of this house before we came here, I saw it was called This is why. - [Enes] Awesome, right? Now we have these steps taking us to the Right next to that is the recreation room. We're going to check Massive shuffle board, few chairs. This is where you can sit down I'm assuming that's what you call it. I've never heard that term before. But you can watch a lot Absolutely. Then we have the outdoor seating area, The contraption that's above So push of a button, you can You even have space heaters here. This might be one of my favorite areas of this property because I feel like You would use the space all the time. In fact, they even have And as I was looking at this TV, So you can close it off and get that minimalist look, or you can Now let's go to the other side. Again, you have your outdoor seating And now I want to cover the kitchen. This is an Evo gas grill. This is the first time we're seeing this I was really curious what this was. It's like a cast iron grill. Maybe that's a way of explaining it. I don't know if it's cast iron. It's like an electric cast iron grill. Gas. And it just looks so cool. And when the design team was designing this home, they were like, outdoor kitchen where you have just They're like, let's put an Evo. Looks pretty awesome. Then on the other side, Again, stainless steel fronts, refrigerated drawers, And my favorite detail in this Now, you may say, I don't There you go. Now you may say, Why are you Well, I like the way they incorporate It's actually at an angle. That's how it houses it Then you look at the top of this column, cantilevers just like some of the other They even made this section - [Mikey] It was the first thing I noticed I had no idea it was for a pizza oven. But I have to say, this is probably the most Well said, Mikey. - [Enes] All right, let's continue. Now, we have the recreation room Sliding glass doors open up. We have a table here with few chairs. Smaller scale shuffle board here. If you don't want to then a really nice bar, countertop It's like mosaic tiles combined Then we have wood countertops here, And this is your bar Now, on the other side, another small seating area I know it's a piano, Pretty sure it's a player piano, It's like an E piano that has, like a, music box built into it, has functions. Yeah, you can play, like, It looks pretty fancy. You come over here. Another exterior door. Powder bathroom for the recreation room. And before we cover this screening room on this side, I actually want So we have two board form This one, they formed it out of, That's why you can see so many You look over to this side, you can see that we only have few seams In fact, these are the connection points that they ran the rods through And that's why this one has more But you have more character here. But when you use this you need a lot of connection These are those rods that they used, but Typically, they use rebar. Rebar, correct. But rebar sometimes can rust versus It doesn't rust. and it's just a clever detail. - [Mikey] Enes was really excited When I saw this, I was like, All right, let's come over here. Let's see. Pocket doors to seal off Comfortable seating section. Drop down projector, nice and cozy. Walnut paneling. It's part of your recreation room. A lot of times, homes this scale, we see And in this case, They just brought it All right, Mikey, back to the backyard. So far, we've covered the first On the other side, Water jets here, serving as a water And in the center, What a perfect place for us Again architectural lines, the way the second floor is Big congrats to the design team. I think they did a fantastic job. I was so excited for this tour today. And I feel like I did my best to cover all the details that I'm just Between how they how they oriented this structure and how they kept it so private with landscaping, material selection, That's all I'm going to say. Now, the pool here has a motorized cover. Looks super inviting. We have few day beds on the other That's your raised hot tub. And behind that is That's the third one. I was wondering if you were I did notice that. Looks super cool. This structure here is the office. You can access it from this And I know I mentioned it earlier, but this pool continues to the other What a clever detail. All right, now let's go back in so Again, we're in the great room. And behind this limestone wall, Now, just like the rest of the home. The way this room is It's not the widest room, spiral staircase, and it just curves It's open riser, railing is nicely I love how they curve the wood And it just looks so elegant. You have that same at the family room And they even have these to light up the texture here. Picture windows, circular skylight above. you have the second Plaster wall. This is a sculpture. This is not a staircase. I'm just gonna go - [Mikey] This is one of my favorite The center beam that wraps around It looks like it's like - [Enes] Well, you're seeing the It's probably a curved and welded steel And if that wasn't enough, as you're going I think I talked about At this point, second floor is literally And that's that little gap, I want to say foot and a half, - [Mikey] Yeah, you can from the second level - [Enes] Exactly. Obviously, top floor is It's just floating above it. So all you have are those steel columns. In fact, home is pretty So I wanted to mention that. All right, follow me this way. Now we are going to the We have a bathroom on my left hand side. It's a powder bathroom skylight above, bringing And coming back to the hallway, This room is dedicated L-shaped couch, Two doors open up to the so you have an exterior access. And on this side, we have this built And they even have a cuckoo clock, I feel like I've never actually I feel like I just see these in, That's my only experience with them. Besides all the details we saw so far, Crazy, right? It's whimsical. So I wanted to mention Again, you have your seating area, And then you come over to this side, where we have another hallway Now, this closet is On my right hand side, we have a massive picture window looking We're going to check It actually opens up Now, coming here, this is the landing So this entry point is We use the one that's in front of it. So you can actually enter the primary Now follow me this way. First, let's check out Starts here, another set of This is where we have the first vanity. It's floating with LED I really like the mirror design here and how they placed these You even have a skylight above to bring Chrome fixtures. Everything is polished to perfection. This house feels like a brand new home. Now, on the back, obviously, Chandelier above, freestanding And it's cleverly designed where they But it has just enough of a clearance for these motorized casement How nice. I mean, they could have Instead, they put the motorized You can just allow natural air All right, let's go to the other side. Massive walk-in shower, glass-enclosed, Obviously you have your steam feature. In fact, you can see the outlets here. They did this nice set So it's not against the glass wall here. It looks a little bit more contemporary. Drains are nicely tucked underneath. But my favorite detail within this walk-in You know why? I think I know what you're going to say, It's motorized? So you can allow more And it probably helps dry Yeah. And as soon as the camera is cut, the recreation house, automatic skylights, But I thought you were going Well, these things are not cheap. And again, it shows the fact bringing natural air and natural light So it's a nice touch. Now we have more screens here They're actually placed right You can move them to each side. And another modern detail that I want to Pretty much the same finishes. Mikey, I don't know if you Oh, really? And now I want to take everybody back to the landing so we can check Now, this bedroom, the way it's designed, It starts here. And before we check out the bedroom, can Now, off of the sliding glass doors, we have this reflecting pool, Then beyond that, you can actually This beautiful tree, They even have an integrated Even their rake matches How cool is that? Yeah. that we saw in the driveway Correct. It's Zen. Board form concrete walls, and it's right We have the king size bed here. Nice warm paneling on the back Then you have your fireplace Other set of sliding glass doors open up to the grounds and the oval And the primary bedroom suite even Casement windows above are motorized. Just a really cozy bedroom. And I actually want to take everybody to the back because we have Mikey, I don't know For dogs. Yes. I'm assuming because On the other side, there's So I assume the people that built Yes, they are. And then you come over here, They have another small patio. This is their dog park It actually goes to the other side. It looks like they have a little garden out here, too, with some Exactly. This lot is pretty impressive. And going back in, I know You can actually go behind the room And there's actually a wet bar here. And then we wrap around. And full circle. So the dogs can stay on this side in the dog park, and they can just close Yeah, probably. Pretty clever. Now let's take the sliding glass doors, go outside, and we have another outdoor garden Look at the landscaping. It's so colorful. This property is so Zen. It's just vibrant out here. That's a better word. And we have another beautiful old, I mean, look at the scale here, Mikey. And throughout the garden here, I love how this deck walkway connects the great room patio to the oval That's the second oak tree that we saw And, I mean, look at the scale here. And down below us, again, Should we go check it out? My favorite area of this house would be looking out at the water and seeing a huge I could have kids running around or and play a sport, or we could We could entertain down there. On a day like today where it's sunny and it's warm, you can have all If it was a windy and a colder day, you can shut all the windows And you have almost as large grass area which is going to be So I like how you have so many different usable areas of this property, I like how this space is This is Astroturf, by the way. So you don't have to water it, Listing agents also call this And I guess it makes sense when you look the scale here, how you can just invite It's pretty awesome. And this is pretty massive. I mean, scale is insane. Not to mention, look at the house That's the primary The first box section is Then you have the bedroom, second floor up there, that houses three And then we got to talk about this. I know I mentioned it while we were there. That's the formal living room area. That's an 18 plus feet And below that is the guest house. Just this frame alone, I'm in love with. And when you look at the bottom section, for the concrete, I guess That way it can truly cantilever This is incredible. This is one of my favorite areas or I know you love your cantilevers. But, Mikey, look at this. Yeah, you're always drawn And this is a very good one. This is a fantastic one. If you take this walkway here and go right next to the cantilever section, there's So we talked about this staircase Again, we have this beautiful board form concrete wall, This is the private entry And going this way, Owners are currently using You can see the yoga mats here. You still get windows We are actually right underneath the cantilevered living room And this room is very spacious. They have a small table There's a Murphy Bed here. This converts into a proper guest home. And obviously, you have Which we're going But if you want to use this In fact, on the other side, you're going to have a really nice induction cooktop, fridge, It's a nice touch. - [Mikey] I don't know why I always find them very cool. It's like a great space saving detail. Then you come over here Again, floating vanity. I like the oversized subway tiles that we into the walk in showe, Definitely a good size bathroom. Now, lastly, they also have Same Texas limestone that we've They have it also in this room. Beautiful marble table. That's your temperature Nicely dressed. And we saw this detail throughout I really like the recessed And then you have cove lighting above. What a cool space. The strip lighting, the LED lighting I'm sure it's going to look Absolutely. And with that, we're Now let's go to the second floor Now we're on the second floor landing. We talked about the staircase And coming to this side, I really like these LED lit shelves. Modern wall sconces above. Even the way books are laid out, Then you come over to this side, small seating area, You have to. So a few months ago, and within the home, they had this Right? Yeah, it's like this magnetic ball that basically will roll around the table geometrical patterns and shapes, Exactly. and posting it on TikTok, I guess people like tables like this, and yeah. Between Instagram and TikTok, 30 million views just on this, like, They're called sisyphus tables, right? No, I think the brand is Okay. Then we have an exterior door here that Since we're on the second floor, Views are fantastic. And we're going to check out Now I want to bring everybody You can actually see Now we're going to continue our tour On my left, we can see Again limestone floors, walk-in shower, And we have the vanity over here. Now, the next two bedrooms that we're going to see are kind of similar, King size bed, built in cabinetry. I really appreciate that they brought, some of the limestone Corner glass, clerestory windows above. Wood paneling on the ceiling And now we're at the front facing balcony. Again, you can move these That way you can either diffuse Pretty nice. Now we're going to take We're going to start our Here another king size bed. Pretty much the same design elements. Comes with a full bathroom, Even though design elements of this bathroom is exactly the same as the other These oversized subway tiles are Little details like Yeah. Now back to the main hallway. This is actually where we can see the curved roof line I mean, this tree is massive. And then this is such a fun, Looking down, you can actually Not to mention some of the rooftops This property also has 126 solar panels I feel like that's more and more of an Couldn't agree more. And yeah, follow me this way. At the end of this hallway, we have a door That office also connects to the main And we're going to see that balcony Now we're in the third bedroom. This is the walk-in closet. Another full bathroom here. This one actually comes King size bed, cedar wood plank ceilings, Like I said earlier, these bedrooms Now, Mikey, let's take everybody And let's check out this balcony again, Weather is amazing. Views are fantastic. What do you think, Mikey? - [Mikey] I really like it here. What is there not to like about Yeah, this is beautiful. This is only our second time here. Last time we were on a cliffside property all the way down there It was really cool. Get to watch people surfing, But I kind of prefer this myself. It's a little more calm, relaxing. Relaxing. I know you're kind of more - [Enes] I want to be down I can actually see waves breaking, But like you said, It's such a legacy estate. I'm glad we came all the way out here And now, let's see this place at dusk. (upbeat music) All right, everyone. That's it from La Jolla, California. Hope you all enjoy this tour. Big congrats to the design team. They did an exceptional And, of course, I want to give big thanks Ross Clark and Brett Dickinson for putting to share their amazing As always, you can find more information about this property in the Now, if you enjoyed this tour, make sure to give us a, like, subscribe, (upbeat music)