Hey everyone! Welcome back to Lavendaire. It's Aileen. So good to see you again. Today I want to share five habits I first saw MuchelleB and Erin May Henry do this, But it inspired me to want to create a version myself. So the first habit that changed my life is that I learned from Marie Forleo, one of the So instead of having the mindset of switch that mindset to &quot;What can I learn from this?&quot; So this applied to when I was taking Marie because when you're taking something like or you're in class or just anywhere in life, sometimes we can have a mindset of, &quot;Oh, I don't need to learn this. I already know this. I already know this. I've heard this before.&quot; Once you have that mindset, then you kind and you know, there might be whether it's in a course or in life that you don't know and yet you're just brushing over it as if I think you have to go through life acting because then you have an open mind to learn. So it's really an approach to being more curious, because instead of thinking you've already consider: &quot;What can I learn from this?&quot; So yes, maybe you've seen these lessons before, but I'm sure there's something new that there There's always something else that can be learned, so instead of approaching school or life through approach it through the lens of The second habit that changed my life is really It's journaling, specifically journaling to and to help me dig deep to discover what my I'm one of those people that I don't really until I take the time to sit down and write it all out. I literally have to ask myself: What am I feeling? What do I really want? And then write it out, and then by the end I'm like, &quot;Oh, that's what's going on.&quot; It's not really surface-level for me. I really have to take the time to journal it out, and journaling helps me break down things, And it's just something that is my own form of therapy. And I think, because I tend to be more of an introvert, that's my way to communicate with myself. I like to work through my issues on my own, just kind of hitting my emotions and situations from all different angles and try to solve it myself. On the other hand, people who are more extroverted and that's how they discover more about their situation or about themselves or work through their problems. They need someone else to talk to. For me, it's just me and my journal. Everything happens within, and talk it out with anyone else so much. I like to be my own best friend. And journaling has saved my life so many times. The third habit that changed my life is adopting So if you've followed my channel for a while, KonMari means Marie Kondo's way of thinking. Marie Kondo is the author of She has this life philosophy to only bring and only keep the physical things that spark And it's just the mindset of a minimalist. Every single thing that you own, everything It should be there because you love it, you And this can be applied to all areas of life, so it really helped me kind of filter out the clutter in my life, mentally, with the people. Every aspect of your life, you could learn you know, &quot;This person makes me happy so I This person does not necessarily give me good vibes, so I'm willing to distance myself from that person.&quot; This was really helpful in terms of productivity too, because it helps you prioritize what projects what will really matter in the end, which And so you learn to not focus your time and waste your time on things that are not as important, which brings me to my next habit that changed my life: Learning to do the most important things first. I learned this concept from the book, which is a great productivity book. It will help you revamp your whole system And it also relates to the KonMari minimalist mindset in really focusing down on what's important. Doing those most important tasks first, you're because you're working on the biggest most important thing that you could be working on. So people like to think I'm a productive person. I'm actually not very productive most of the time. Yes I have my good days where I'm like boom-boom-boom, knocking things out. But most days, I'm really not doing much during my day. I wake up pretty late. I wake up like 10:00, 11:00, 12:00 PM. Then I really just prioritize doing the most one or two important things in my day, and then once I'm done with that I feel good So you have to ask yourself: &quot;If I were to only complete one or two things today, what things will those be?&quot; And then prioritize those. Do those first. It will change your life. It will just make you more productive and effective. You might not get as much done as before, because those important things are hard and But they're the most important. It's just been a great strategy for me so far. The fifth habit that immensely changed my life is learning to cultivate gratitude as a daily, consistent practice. It really is shifting your mindset from focusing focusing on what's going wrong, to focusing focusing on what's going right, and being thankful for everything that you do have in your life. I know it's said over and over again, how important gratitude is, but I can't emphasize it enough. The way that you see the world heavily impacts and it heavily shapes your reality as well. So if you see the world through the lens of nothing's going right, everything's going Then that's what you're going to see in your world. But if you shift that lens into being grateful &quot;Oh my gosh, I get to live in the first world. I have food, I have water, I have technology,&quot; there's just so much that we have, so much Just learning to see the joy and the beauty in all the little moments, it will change your life so much. It just changes how you see things, and when you really change how you feel and you change The way that this has manifested in my life is: I'm just more joyful and light-hearted about There's so much delightful little moments or just seeing my plant grow a new leaf makes Or seeing a really neat fridge makes me really Or laughing at my own silly jokes or silly There's so much fun that you could have in this world. There's so much beauty everywhere, that even you can still find something to be grateful for. You can still find something that is beautiful, And when you see the world through that lens, that positive lens of love and beauty and It's really just the major shift. You can live in the same world as another and yet see two completely different things The power is in the lens that you see the Just learning how to shift that lens. In the beginning you have to do it intentionally, make it a practice to do some gratitude journaling listing things you're grateful for, and then And over time it just becomes a part of your It becomes ingrained in who you are. It just becomes more natural. And so now I generally feel like I'm more Even when things go wrong, still be grateful for some things and practically But it's just not as emotional of a roller Alright, those are the five habits that have Let me know if you have a favorite. Let me know if you learned anything or was after you've watched my videos and gotten I hope you have a beautiful day. Love you all so much, and look out for the I'm gonna share six books that have changed my life. Bye!