YouTubers are getting their channels hacked. Password managers are leaking user data. Phishing emails often outnumber legitimate There are some big changes happening with to know. For years most of us have relied on security past. Strong passwords, some form of 2-factor authentication, Boom! You're good! Unfortunately, as the world continues to evolve, - and I believe there's even more coming longer enough. It's not that we need to move away from to modify the way that we secure our accounts, handle our publicly available data. In this video, I'm going to walk through us would say is the foundation of our online that is going to turn these simply good strategies will future proof you against the latest threats Before I get started, let me share with you it comes to their online security - and it's I come across far too many people who tell strategy". When anybody says that to me, alarms go off Sometimes that blank is as simple as a really explain their complex virtual machine setup It doesn't matter. They're both wrong. You want to know the truth? The truth is that nothing in the world of Nothing. Now you can react to this in one of two ways. First, you could throw up your hands and say screwed anyway so what's the point. That's what most people do, whether they Or, you can recognize where things are headed That's why All Things Secured exists in I'm constantly learning and adjusting my you. It's for your own benefit to follow along So you have strong passwords. That's great. I hope you're using a password manager to The next step here is to start masking as online accounts. The best story that comes to mind here for Let's say you had an account on their platform would have taken centuries to crack. Congratulations. Just as you take a moment to pat yourself now selling data stolen from 400 million Twitter phone number associated with your Twitter In this case, it didn't matter how strong the security measures put in place by the And these kinds of corporate hacks are happening the. time. And I predict that this trend will continue So again, don't just create strong passwords how you can mask or hide other pieces of personal You can mask your email address that you use Don't give away your actual phone number, And for goodness sake, stop giving out your personal data to change, and start using a I've got videos explaining how to do all It's not as hard as you might think. Strong passwords combined with masked data Ok, I'm about to say something and I need over-react, ok? This is a difficult truth that a lot of people And here it is. 2-factor authentication is hackable. Just this past year, major YouTube channels IT professionals like David Bombal have been Now how this happened is a topic I want to The point here is that, again, no security So what's the adjustment we need to make First, if you're serious about security, opposed to SMS text verification or even authenticator That doesn't solve all of the problems here, The biggest shift you need to consider here A sandbox could mean maintaining an entirely or sensitive emails. It could mean logging into certain accounts a specific computer in your home that is the mobile device or anything else. I know some people who go as far as creating activities. At this point, that's a little out of my how and even when you might want to create This doesn't always apply to everybody, into crypto, this is something I suggest you My hope is that you either don't have unnecessary made them all private. We can be our own worst enemy when it comes Minimizing what you share publicly is a good who leak our information. Out government does it all the time with public Companies routinely sell your data and it's been placed on because of some targeted attribute The next step here is to erase as much data Google your name and address and see what Do it in a private browser and see if there you forgot about. What you're probably going to find is that quietly selling or licensing access to your family relationships and more. You can go through the process to opt out is possible but time consuming- or you can You've probably heard me talk about DeleteMe It's a service I've used for more than The thing I love is that they continually of my personal information and every month of data that pop up and making more opt out It's a pretty set it and forget it solution, my data somewhere else on the internet, I care of it. I don't want people to know the value of they can harass if they don't like something That's why I use and recommend DeleteMe their website and use the code ATS to get Don't click links! Don't open email attachments from unknown Again, these are helpful, fundamental pillars the way you win is to recognize that security There is a direct network effect associated and even co-workers. Last week I received an email from my mom a message she had received was a scam. Now to my experienced eyes, it was absolutely "It makes sense in some ways..." My mom is a smart woman, and so is my wife, I hire in my company. But they all share one thing in common - each chain and the weakest link is still a threat, For the longest time, security has been an But individuals and companies, both big and spouse or that virtual assistant that you vulnerable. One easy solution is to train your network Be predictable in your methods of communication say they get a message from you on a different never make through an email, that they naturally I've talked about the one security habit that it's worth watching that and sharing Now I'm no idiot. I'm not going to tell you how to nag your Just know that as long as they don't, it's For employees or contractors, that's a different You can and should mandate certain security So what are the key takeaways? Create strong passwords, but then start masking Definitely use 2FA, particularly 2FA keys, to sandbox for greater security. Make all your social accounts private, but data. Don't click links in emails or attachments, family. What else would you add to this list? I know there's more here and I'd love Leave a comment with your ideas and then watch I referenced earlier. It's a good one, I promise, so click here.