[FOG HORN] [SEAGULLS] MAN 1: I still get butterflies The tugs or the what about the one in My main concern, I Into the port, and docked. MAN 2: This ship was supposed this morning. Because of the heavy fog, and brought her in this Normally I'd like the ship arrives to get for discharging. When she's going to I'll leave that up to the I inform them exactly where All that communication EDWARD RUISI: We are an And everything comes-- has to come And then we OK it See that number four EDWARD RUISI: When he talking to the so I know that he's got I'll go on the ship, introduce myself as and so on, which he tell him what the plan I check all of the have to do, collect collect his papers collect his document, And then he'll have And he might have and I'll have to He'll be looking naturally to buy groceries and is there when I-- when MAN 3: Is any of or you want to bring No, no, no. You can make it OK. That's fine. So he's not going to-- Yeah, OK. That's fine. OK, I'm going to go a couple of questions and-- Also the chief engineer. And also the engineer. And then I'll come back Steve's got questions Thanks, Captain. I'll see you in a few minutes. Good morning. I'm going to climb up What I got to do if-- what lift truck by the size of the coil. Danny, let's rig up a little Tim Rogers. TIM ROGERS: Yeah, Russ? Yeah, listen-- when I want them to help Russ and Paul, Timmy. TIM ROGERS: Will do. RUSS WEDIN: The activities There's a big variety here. You could be loading You could be loading You could working in the There's a big variety of And I think that [ALARM] Our tonnage rate has increased And we average anywhere from-- up as high as 30 lifts per hour. So based upon that, we two hold, 117 coils So we're looking at shortly of the coils. And then we'll sweep the and make it suitable Then there'll be an and he will do his that the holds are clean, dry, cargoes. It's just a matter now of all the coils are checked Look for any damage Make sure that These coils are all They're for Keeler steel. And there is about 19 different thicknesses, and lengths. And then what will call for them on a daily And then we'll take the coil, for them, and then load it on to Minneapolis. STEVE ZAWACKI: It has So what they're doing now is And it has to-- the cleanliness When you're running between it's to keep the holds clean. And that's the Well, it's all bulk And this one can go to Halifax That's where we went last trip. Her main run is Thunder Bay, with iron ore from Duluth here [HORN] There's a crew of And-- MAN 4: [INAUDIBLE]. STEVE ZAWACKI: Midship. MAN 4: Midship. STEVE ZAWACKI: When it makes a difference, when Still about 50 feet up at red STEVE ZAWACKI: You'll find and the crew just doesn't And here-- I was on the And both ships, the crew and be able to do the And it makes your that you've got a good This corner here is in the whole harbor. And it's harder coming out, then and when you're coming in. Well, in the dark-- in it makes it a little But in the fog, it can be Most of those sails they turn here and back up This is the telegraph. What I'll do is put I want the engine to turn at. Here it tells me how many And, yeah, somebody down in the engine room who The only problem with relying on somebody else to do here. So you have to be very conscious The center of the where the loading rig is. I've got to slow down here so we don't pull It's not so bad when you're when you're in ballast. It's when you're loaded You'll pull the other The unloading system He is handling fives belts, directs the coal onto the belt. It's a variable speed. We can-- as we get towards we can lower the rate down. But maximum is around Main thing at this is just keeping track and ensuring the ballast water MITCH HALLIN: You can Right now, we've got We've got 3,912 in He's loading at 11, at 10.9, He's running 100%. Pretty good, Kam. Pretty good. Yeah, the Paul R. Tregurtha We're 1,013 and 105 foot beam. She was built in Just a little bit bigger They handle good. We have twin screws, we got two engines on here. A bow thruster. She handles good. She handles real good. We've been hauling coal on here, That's our main-- now is coal, hauling from here If we leave here, it's for a round trip. That's including First mate will come out to load and trim the vessel. It's maximum draft for And ensure that the vessels not down by the head, is deeper than the stern. And also ensure have an excessive sag or hog. That's what they call-- Average load-- see, last The trip before Our limiting factor is water So this trip we can of 27 feet 9 inches. And that's considered by the company for For every inch of draft you can gain approximately So a couple inches either over the course of talking significant tonnage Steady up on the Weather is the biggest thing. I've seen myself come into this dock and-- midship-- you're-- you've only got or else you'll knock the And where I've had to-- the only members to tie up right on the end of the pier. And we were off at that I had to back-- but then I had to back away and of the wind. Yeah, Eric. Let me know when they're Once we get inside that ERIC (INTERCOM): OK. 35 port. 14 port now. 12 port now. And 25 off the corner, And the boys are going ashore. JIM FRASER: you really in that guy lowering you down. Actually, one time I got lowered fence, one time. The main thing is to get the you know, if we do have to then they're there and also You've got to be careful. I mean, you know, you get a guy on the boom, and you're going You know, you got to watch it. As I call it, the demon drop. Right there, fellas. [INAUDIBLE] JIM FRASER: to have to shift the boat back. I mean, you know, to get So we might as well just, out as we can, put as can so that all we have to as we shift back. It's just a little bit easier. [ALARMS] I'm just raising the boom of the road so the can and we'll open up these Once we get those be able to drop these shoots loading, so-- we're talking We're letting him number 26, drop 24 or whatever. [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] How are you? How do you do, sir? Good morning. SENCER UNDER: We come as as such-- like when first go to captain and get down to paperwork. Thank you, thank you. My last one. SENCER UNDER: And our major Basically we are looking Everything depends If distribution is not proper, so we make sure that What is going to transpire She's 12 years old. For her age, she's very and the holes contain some It's not lose. So that will maintain. She's really in good shape. MIKE BEDNAREK: We're on the deck, that type of stuff. What they do with-- how The big, big, concerns. If they have wind, it'll blow and then becomes So we'll just kind of And then we'll go ahead up I like the newer ones. They've got elevators. Morning. WOMAN 1: Morning. MIKE BEDNAREK: Captain around? Captain, do you have the form that they left with you? Yes. Captain, we're going We're going to check your So if we get someone to I need to see these I'm going to need so if they're not want to warm them up first. OK, OK. No problem. I make you see all the And here, too. OK, six zero is OK, we'll let-- and he'll get you a new one. That's no problem. Your echo depth sounder. It's over here. Could you turn that I'll switch it on. RODOLFO PINEDA: In every I should say I'm Well, first it is the regulation. And in my opinion, it is we made some mistake, they you know? And they can correct And then it's then, let's it is also for the MALE 5: Gonna start back She started by herself, so may This is cream of the crop. A day like today, Our sterns coming to the corner along. Bad day? Uh, 35 knot wind, When ice starts, that's So today is ideal. [SEAGULLS] Back in the beginning, all Now we've got radar We've got GPS. So it's all state of the art. OK, you're going to Hard port. Started out as a deck hand. And an engineer. And then went into Went off to school and got into the [HORN] GEORGE LATOUR: Got to judge don't want to meet OK, got the line up here now. Don't want to meet Best is out there in the harbor like we did. The other tug now is going to on this side. You can pull the stern here, while we bring the He'll lift the stern around. MAN 6 (INTERCOM): We're all MIKE OPACK: Yeah, she's creeping MAN 6 (INTERCOM): OK, Mike. That's fine. GEORGE LATOUR: The pilot, the And we all work together. So that things-- things We have about three be hitting on the OK. See, as he's telling me we're that gives us all an idea If we're going too fast, if we can, you now, slow him down. MAN 6 (INTERCOM): GEORGE LATOUR: OK. Middle of the face out here. Swinging quite lively. We'll get just up here and then start A little bit more and When it gets touchy getting closer to the corner. We want to make sure that of the corner. Got about 300 feet yet the I'll bring the bows-- and Dean brings his stern over. And then we bring the LOUIS DESMARAIS: Do you have Sure we'll just take Then you can go ahead and shift. BOB STAGER: They'll send up and what exactly he And we just correspond that it lines up with. Punch in the numbers whichever, how much ever Run the shuttles out to and start to go. The shuttles run about so if you're running you can run 21,000, These are long tons per hour. 21,000 tons would be 1 and 1/2 100 tons each, 160 car trains. It would be 1 and The top set of buttons is the shuttles. This set is for starting Only using these two right now. And this is for gates that are underneath And this is for And so we don't open up the and load nash into there's a switch right there one so it cannot be open. One half of the silo is hib tack This here keeps track of all and going out of the It'll tell you how much is How much is left in This side will show and of course, nothing loaded. 5,800 tons in the dock. It'll also tell you how Right now there's 246 It also is keeping which I'm loading right now at the same time, Hello, Nate. NATE: Hello. BOB STAGER: That's all of it. You can go ahead and shift NATE: 21 under 20. OK. Your first run came 14,325 tons on board right now. NATE: That's pretty Thank you. I've been here since so you get a chance and develop a rapport with them. I enjoy it. It's interesting. I like loading the boats The whole harbor MATT HARBINSON: You can't because you'll take It's just that they're and they're like What I mean by tinder, you can't Most of it's straight All the docks at Nigh They're all built for speed. They can load you They can pull records like 60,000 tons in four hours. That's a lot of And I guess they're because they've got it all I started sailing in 1958. I started-- I went to a place called Vindin Hedreichs. And then I went to-- sailed with Kinnaird first. And then I sailed with And then I decided Whenever you leave what difference does it make? You've been all I'd been all around the So-- a couple of times INTERVIEWER: Would you No. INTERVIEWER: No? Why not? Because you miss-- you and you've got kids, you Life is too short miss a lot of them growing up. There is a lot of but you got to have the to get married to, they understand what kind of a It's just like a He's never at home either. But what can you do? That's just the Federal Fraser, Federal We are arriving to your [HORN] CAPT. NICHOLAS It's always exciting. Even after 40 years, But it's-- the part I enjoy There-- you know, coming from all over the world. Captain, CAPT. RAJ KHANNA: How are you? CAPT. NICHOLAS SKORICH: You got the anchor up? CAPT. RAJ KHANNA: gettig up to about CAPT. NICHOLAS SKORICH: OK, CAPT. RAJ KHANNA: Oh, yeah. Security call, security Inbound Duluth We'll be berthing at Federal Fraser to the SECURITY OFFICER (OVER I heard your and we'll meet down CAPT. NICHOLAS It's the responsibility really is to get the vessel from and safely as possible. Starboard 10. CAPT. NICHOLAS The aerial bridge is There's a-- like, for example, a day or two before, you have Louis River through the harbor. If you had a good northeast you still have current and sometimes you have a couple CAPT. NICHOLAS [HORN] The route is all right, mean the time is so short that for two days now. And today they're not working. But sometimes you work. You come and you start and within a day It does got it's own ups Because that's why I've And I think another 10 if all goes well. TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER RADIO): We're all hooked up. CAPT. RAJ KHANNA: All hooked up. Thank you. This pigeon joined ship That was about one month back. There are three of them, and two But this one is not he-- I don't think Maybe he, when we go back to CAPT. NICHOLAS SKORICH: going to-- we're going CAPT. NICHOLAS And we have to work together It's very, very you work with the same Like the port of the best I've seen in 40 years. When making a you'll hear us talking and that building are in line. The middle of the The ranges are lined and the north side of and we're were talking And the reason we is because they're all the time, so we try to do And we don't have to moving or anything. And, of course, in fog, Well, Harvest States is probably berths to make. The reason is as soon as you you've got a 90 degree And you almost So if you've got any wind coming it's very difficult, have a couple of ship lanes to degree turn. And most foreign ships so this is where your best CAPT. NICHOLAS SKORICH: TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER RADIO): CAPT. NICHOLAS SKORICH: OK. Lots of room on the I've got 80 feet. TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER About 50 more feet off there. Midship. Starboard? TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER RADIO): OK, you might be starting up here at about 45 maybe. Yeah, OK, just stay up there and I'll thruster over CAPT. RAJ KHANNA: to pick up soybeans, and then we go to [INAUDIBLE], And then we go to We store the cargo [INAUDIBLE]. JOHN TAIVALOJA: about empty when the It's pretty close. Once the boat is the hoses are hooked up and then on the vessel side. Then the material is conveyed to the top of the silos. We have one terminal employee It's usually about a 13-hour Most of the time we take We have a draft so that's why we always-- the because we have enough But we have to take off here before we can get This used to be It was built for the in '42, which later became US fleet. The way it was, it was too long to fit to load, so they cut it in half, and welded it back together, it is today. Good old Larry, he's the and what we were doing is we and coming over to Duluth. [ALARM] And what he was doing was Then, of course, was coming from the pilot house either a head or a [ALARM] With the green wheel there, And that runs the And, of course, you open the valve is how So when he wants has to shut that one off and that starts and she'll go the other way You figure that we've You know, we have We have our own room. We make our own electricity. We have our sewage plant, So it's just like a Where we tie up here is here, in five minutes, And, of course, some of the guys there and exchange money. See, it's one of a kind. They're starting to disappear, [HORN] CAPT. JOHN LUKAN: Loading at is the Helena Oldendorff. As I said, this is This ship is registered As we get a little see the Panamanian flag flying ANGEL MALAN: This is a We don't have one crew ship. We have mostly mixed. Now they are starting. You are getting crew from and from Yugoslavia and Croatia. They're all mixed now. It's much better than when you You have less problems, because One or two crew members from so normally they go together. WOMAN: Your name is I'm [INAUDIBLE] My [INAUDIBLE] is Chile. WOMAN: What's your name? Fernando. I'm from Maldives. [INAUDIBLE] WOMAN: How long have you I don't know. It's a long time. I start 1978, [INAUDIBLE]. WOMAN: And you live in Turkey? Yes, I live in Turkey. WOMAN: What city? [INAUDIBLE]. WOMAN: Your name? My name? My name is [INAUDIBLE]. I have-- my first time I and it was August. It was beautiful, I pass all of this. I was as an apprentice so it was very interesting. Not it's more difficult and the all these things as it was before. But he's helping me to because a lot of they're learning There's the people normal living a shore, they So travelling all of countries, of people, different when you have all these things, sometimes. What's your name? Alfred. Alfred? Yeah. OK, and how about your partner? He's Ramil, aren't you? Who? Ramil. Ramil? Yeah. Aha, OK, Alfred and Ramil. MARKO LATKOVIC: Well, If we go to Algiers, it'll but every day only two persons They are being controlled So each day, I have to only two crew members. They can go ashore, and they in the afternoon, CAPT. JOHN LUKAN: As a result you can see quite a bit They do a pretty good job of keep up with the that salt water takes its toll. Usually the life span is perhaps 35, 40 if it's really Well, it's the crew that and you can see them It looks like they've priming rough spots up for painting. ROY VOEKS: We're loading in this tank and and they're almost getting This is going to go out But first, we have to deliver to the Helena. It's a real challenge to without any bow thruster in He's a good captain. He's just using the Fortunately it has dual so they're a little bit a twin-screw vessel. In the domestic trade, down to a science. They know exactly what to do. We don't have to They take our lines. But these guys they It's kind of hard to so it's just better dropped off and goes up there Three of us have as a radio up on the ship. He has to see the He has to go up and get We always have to face the and swing it out. And usually, that's right OK, diesel coming your way. A sample of the product, We keep the first and then we give them this one. This is the sample of the Because how can we know? It's going through Maybe they put the whiskey or gasoline. ROY VOEKS: It just to take care of everything, used to dealing with us. It's very rare that you get more than once a year. [BELL RINGS] [ATTENDANCE BEING TAKEN] Well, most of the kids that-- they all grew up down and all they've is sail on the lakes, work in Just going to make it. whoa, whoa. Now, this job here Now, this is the first we've Thursday. It' a job where when you're You done at 10 o'clock at night. Your back down at something like that-- 7 o'clock. The day starts all over. You can let her JAMES 'SHAMUS' LANCOUR: The Usually, they just Maybe it might go but they're down to the draft. And they got 20 some hatches And here, these boats mostly, are about five holds. Some of them are seven. Probably got to a little [INAUDIBLE] Well, if stevedore is the, I he's the employer, and the We hire the longshoremen We do the coordinating between and the vessel itself, and the captain. A ship is a teeter-totter, and is putting a little grain here, It's just a question of where, and the fact that the stresses, so you've got a so that you're not JAMES VELTUM: The ship he's running various equipment to the various spots, one And he's in charge of that with the deck boss of The ship loader, though, He's got the whole 60,000 bushels and hour. On the scale floor who is weighing the grain, and that is his sole function. He's operating the full electronic It's up to him to make sure that The amount of grain weighed Right now I've got 192,000 And you convert that to pounds, You sell it quality This particular cargo is a three hard amber. It could be a two hard amber. There's a lot of different And one of the things we do at we make quality separations You've got a test You've got moisture. You've got [INAUDIBLE]. You've got falling numbers. You've got the [INAUDIBLE]. You've got hard amber counts. You've got damage, falling number, sedimentation. You've got many, many and we test for all these prior to its unloading. Then separate it and At this elevator we We normally run four belts, a at the same time and it's to know where your know what the quality is, and then combine it and you might run 30, 40 bins We had the Lake Ontario We had the Federal Fraser in. It took almost 26,000 And now we're on the got a couple of ships so we've got to [MUSIC PLAYING] JAMES VELTUM: Yeah, we are on board right now. It's going to take coming down to the home We thought we will finish two or three days. The problem was that You see, the color of the Otherwise, they in the next port, these charts. JAMES VELTUM: The reputation it's had a very good in and out, especially at And this was one to the whole operation. We decided, elected, to put and we did not find that we had Normally, a ship like this in about 16 hours. ANGEL MALAN: You have You wait for the But like now, the and I think are predicting That's why they did not take because they like STEVEDORE (OVER let's going on there We need better than LONGSHOREMAN (OVER I'll get them to open it up. STEVEDORE (OVER Most stevedores So if you're not loading in you're not making any money. And so the name of the and keep it moving and know that something is ready to do adjust for it. The patience is a must. But on the other to have an extreme You can't just say, oh, I'll Uh-uh, you've got to got to make them right now. And so that sense of even though you may not show it. It's there, and it's Well, it may get down to maybe one and five for trim. There'd be a guy up forward, Then the stevedore Then they'll check in the mark on the midship over there. Then they'll go back and and then so many ton up there. Then they'll talk Then another ton here They never can agree LONGSHOREMAN (OVER RADIO): CHARLES ILENDA: What we're Finding out, according to on board, and if I'm going, what my draft from now, or do I have Do I change percentages? Do I leave it alone? Everybody wants to know when and is it going to rain? So, yeah, you get a that you throw in there. 400 feet there, number two. LONGSHOREMAN (OVER ANGEL MALAN: We are not enough without the good stability. The ship might the moment the cargo shifts. Because this is not full, you Number one and number so it will not be-- you know, the better. If you have less cargo, is so much that it JAMES 'SHAMUS' LANCOUR: The only of keep it level. That's the requirement by Grain's got to be halfway decent when you're not filling up. It's either half full-- they've Shutting number two off. STEVEDORE (OVER JAMES 'SHAMUS' LANCOUR: Some of to use a shovel. They're going like You've got to put That's why we're in good shape. DON PARKER: Well, today we're We have two types of We have one out of which calcite stone, which And the other type is a dolomite Cedarville, Michigan. And we blend it here and is what we're going to try for. And they use it to process ore into taconite pellets We have a conveyor system that We have hydraulic gates. We have a man or, in down there manually And we have signal lights as to how much a load to put on. Basically, just make sure because if you get you have spillage And if you get a bad have to shut down the conveyor. Here we're regulated by Under normal situation, we can onload between 6,000 But here I think we're down This boat still has the You know, there's a pointed as opposed to most that are built after They all have every-- all the They have a round bow. They just don't have they have any personality. CAPT. JAMES DIETLIN: Security, Arthur M. Anderson, outbound the [INAUDIBLE] doors. [BELL RINGING] OK, you can rest First of all, you've because you get the wheel and so you've got to and then increase as you go. My main job is to see that I may have to make all from all the docks. I have to be around the It's my responsibility through the locks-- and back out of the locks. OK, Tommy, you can steer TOMMY: To the left. We'll come under bridge anchor. TOMMY: Under bridge anchor. Today coming out we had so we can go faster than he and he was loading, you know. The Barker's blocked. Yeah, Block here. What do you want to do? I got about 15 minutes. I'll be out that [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah, I'm just over Let's see, how about check until I get won't take me long and I'll get up in the if you want to get down We'll just pass you right here. OK, there's two of us you know. There's the Arthur M. Yeah, I seem him there, so and get out of your in the anchorage area, CAPT. JAMES DIETLIN: stopping off at there because we had the So we waited for Block to get They closed the bridge to through a little bit. You can steer her out to and I'll leave you a [RINGING] There's a current running so you have to watch it when you because it can set you down there at times. BRIDGE OPERATOR (OVER RADIO): We're on our way CAPT. JAMES DIETLIN: I will give it. You don't want to be going either. That curve gets you at your bow. It won't let you come around OK, now you can TOMMY: Run faster. Yeah, we'll come TOMMY: Down center. Right about after him [HORN] [HORN] ANGEL MALAN: Well, you And when you leave another CHIEF ENGINEER FROM HELENA Anyway it is difficult. It but the job is Security, security, security, is setting up lines at Harvest will be backing way going out Duluth Piers. Security, call the Helena lines at Harvest State The two tugs, the are going to be going out in about 15 minutes. The Helena Ollendorf checking TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER RADIO): Start her back easy. Right about on the Well, last year it was and I got home for one day. I find that's the biggest thing. You're going to have be pretty strong to put with this kind of job. You've got to like it; If you don't, you might TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER just coming away on that back in a little bit farther. OK. I started here on the I got out of high been here ever since I found out you don't have You just have to go to work. It doesn't look like it, even if you're at home. So there's no Monday and I found that to be true. The [INAUDIBLE] is coming by and now she's Looking just fine. We'll be out of here TUG BOAT PILOT (OVER and thanks for coming out. You betcha. [BELL RINGING] So you do the best all a handshake and a smile. That's unusual in [SHIP HORN] [MUSIC PLAYING]