What is the universe really made of? What we perceive? In 400 BC, Greek philosopher atoms as being fundamental. He believed which could not be divided any further. discovered something smaller than an Ernest Rutherford discovered that Atoms were composed of protons and neutrons. components that all things are made of, neutrons and protons were composed of kinds - up quarks and down quarks. Today, is thought to be made up of just these down quarks. That's what all atoms are your grass, everything. At least, this is class. The only problem is - it's not true. decades. These particles are really not tells us that there really are no Nature is made of fields. Reality is These things we call particles are of field though. So what in the heck are about the nature of reality? The idea of particles, even the particles that I've talked about numerous times composing the standard model, is not what particles are fiction. They're convenient best understanding of the universe today. are not particles but fields. These are perturbed. They can vibrate and fields? Mathematically, a field is point in space. They're not really made strictly physicist's point of view. Think of it this way, If you have a fireplace in a room, the temperature at every point in that room would have a value. This would be a field of temperature. This is fields. And these fields in nature are take a strong metal box, and remove atoms, all the photons, what will be left a vacuum - like the vacuum of empty space. But in fact, this vacuum is alive with fields. And they're constantly moving and principle means that a quantum field and vibrating and changing their value of empty space. All the bubbles that you perturbations of empty space. and destroyed in this emptiness. But of fields that pervade all of space. What excitations of these fields. In fact, all excitations of four of the fields. You vibrations in the electromagnetic field. field. Up quarks and down quarks make up of all atoms. They are vibrations in the respectively. Amazingly, everything that desk, flowers, and trees - the earth below these four fields. But there are more than everything that we designated as theory of physics we have, are really fields. The total number of fields would that space-time itself is thought to be be incorporated in quantum field theory. so-called particles are really waves. And an ocean wave. The 2d models are just a be three-dimensional. Can you see any of of get an idea by putting a magnet lines that you see are really the magnet. Another way to visualize fields being filled with water, as if we were instead of water, the ocean is filled kinds of fluids, and these fluids are of spectacular and weird. But this is actually looks like, except that you theory better than the idea of particles? is the idea of action at a distance. So you have to concede that the gravity of is a 120 millionkilometers away. How can something affect something else so far away without Even Newton thought that action at a inconceivable that inanimate brute something else, effect other matter, without mutual relativity eliminated the idea of action something called space-time, which is a he showed mathematically, that gravity is space. Whatever happens anywhere to a happening in the field near the particle. distances, it has to affect its field point to another distant point, then point. This is similar to the way a wave rock in it, from the rock to the shore, also explain how particles can be when a neutron decays to a proton and this happen? Was the electron hiding in the property that they can give their the field hard enough. They will affect of the quark field of the neutron can be proton, plus electron field, and antineutrino and antiparticles are excitations in the They're just described as equal and is represented by two opposing waves. annihilate each other. You are affected someone on your cell phone, you're the field, and affecting the electronics you're calling. This is action at a action at a distance. Your cell phone is electromagnetic field, that is tower, and eventually onto the receiver a dilemma here because you have learned quantum mechanics is all about discrete But fields are continuous not discrete. between the idea of the discreteness of mechanics, and the continuous nature of The combining of field theory with field theory, or QFT. So essentially, all chunks of energy. The energy of the wave particle. What is a mass? A mass of a vibrate its field. Energy, if you recall, famous equation, E = MC^2 . The below a certain threshold. Once you tap is created. This discrete unit of energy call the rest mass energy of the fundamental amount of energy that must a particle. So for example, one electron excited by 0.511 mega electron volts, add energy equivalent to 0.4 mega If you put in 1.1 mega electron volts, This works for all the particles. All the waves in the same underlying field. The not. Also present in this room, and in your quark field. And all the atoms in your ripples in these three fields. everyone on earth is in. In fact, it's the and the Sun are in. We are basically fields everywhere in the universe. Now, field can communicate with the ripples field. And everything is connected to it. It does not tell us what dark matter is, occurred, or why there is more matter there's still work to be done. to the probability waves of quantum When we say that an electron is a particle wrong. And it's not because we can't because there's no such thing as a wavefunction. It is spread all throughout position and velocity will be if we shape of the electromagnetic field is of the electric field is the wave The wave function is what really exists. don't see the wave function, because the discrete value. This can be predicted by vibrating and modulating, but when you individual packets of energy called fundamentally, reality is different when Every particle in the universe is a tiny into a particle by the machinery of vibrating at every location in space and building blocks of nature. So the age-old or wave can be answered. They are waves. A particle is just what manifests when we measure the wave. Who discovered fields? came up with the idea, notebook in 1845. Are fields a real thing, or Even though a field is made of no are considered real physical stuff. This energy. In addition, their properties can by experimental results. Now we get back fundamental?&quot; Well, I think it's limit of our understanding. But it could an approximation of a deeper level of be some fundamental reason why these Why does the electron field have a electron volts? Why does it obey answer? We may not even be asking the right certain Secretary of Defense, there are And I think the answer will come when we the right question.