In 1945, France returns to its former into the fold of the French Empire. But of Ho Chi Minh are there to meet them with rivers and jungles of Vietnam will play host to for France and twenty more years of struggle for French involvement in Indochina - modern in the mid 19th century at the height of deny Britain further imperial possessions in across the previously independent kingdoms in armed expansion, and imposing protectorates. single Indochinese colony subject to France's this is a cover for colonial and suppression of local identities. colonies closer to France, so they open French science and ethics. These find fertile seen their traditional Confucian government European one. However, some also use them One such person is Nguyen Sinh Cung - later countryside but received a French education he gained a respect for French enlightenment, Confucian administrators. Having spent many in 1919 Ho Chi Minh is the head of a Vietnamese Inspired by US President Woodrow Wilson's ideas of but not immediate independence, for Vietnam. The ideas will not apply to colonised non-Europeans. enlightenment, Ho finds a more supportive ideology he helps form the French Communist Party, "[French communists] still think that plenty of sand underfoot and of sun overhead, and that's all. And they take the matter." (Duiker in Lawrence 155) in the Soviet and Chinese communist parties revolutionary warfare theories. The relationship the Vietnamese peasantry can conduct a revolution an urban proletariat-led revolution. When Ho this debate remains, and limits the party's talent, including teacher-turned-self-taught The outbreak of war in 1939, and the fall of France in summer 1940 In 1940, the French colony of Indochina - frontline in both the Second Sino-Japanese Japanese forces occupy northern Vietnam to cut the their Chinese enemies. Japan also forces the to provide economic and transit rights in In 1941 though, Japan occupies the entire colony. Vietnam after three decades abroad. He softens broader independence movement. In 1941, the the larger League for the Independence of all parts of Vietnamese society to resist the "Rich people, soldiers, workers, peasants, and women who warmly love your country!... As the Japanese and French and their jackals in boiling water and burning heat." (Ruane 19) campaign against the Japanese, but they lack Ho Chi Minh has high hopes for President pledges the Viet Minh to the Allied Powers At first though, there is little cooperation, 1945 and arrests French troops. The US sends an July 1945, which trains and arms the Viet Minh, support. Instead, Ho marches on Hanoi as the The Viet Minh are generally popular in the distribute food in the 1944/45 famine, and Vietnamese independence on September 2nd. salute the Viet Minh flag. OSS representative Patti himself is impressed with Ho. On the right before being recalled from the the future of Vietnam to his higher ups: well balanced, politically minded individual. independence, liberation from French rule, nations and lastly right to deal directly seen these people mean business and to deal with them. For that matter [we] Although Roosevelt opposed the return his successor President Truman has other concerns. but also wants a restored France as Union in Europe. Ho sends letters but State Department officials prevent their against French sovereignty in Indochina, The US does participate in the post-war division Chinese Civil War, Nationalist China is to occupy Ho's provisional government spreads its which includes widespread looting, limits the Vietnamese set up a Southern Viet Minh economic centre of the southern Annam province. to establish its presence before British Douglas MacArthur delays the British arrival meaning they arrive a week late on September 11th. small power base, but the British force, mostly including Free French Commandoes. Although there to support French control. Britain is concerned colonies occupied by Japan during the war. A can trade with British colonies and "The potential threat to Australia, and the East Indies Archipelago resulting or unfriendly power has been sufficiently Second World War]." (Lawrence in Lawrence FVW 109) MASTERDOM - Britain sends Major General Accept the Japanese surrender, process prisoners. He is to avoid internal politics he arrives, he ignores a Vietnamese welcome "I went out there after the war and saw the French time with the Japanese... I was welcomed on and all that sort of thing. It was a very out. They are obviously Communists." (Ruane 27) government. Rioting and looting is common - as Vietnamese militant religious sects and other for no violence, the Viet Minh conducts including French and Japanese collaborators. security, while French residents demand Gracey with the French, though he encourages them troops to process 70,000 Japanese soldiers. French prisoners and brings Japanese guards into are on the way, but will take weeks to with his own superior, Lord Louis Mountbatten, who is much more critical of a French return On September 21, 1945 Gracey decrees new rules banning public demonstrations, and the groups complain the rules unfairly target The Viet Minh responds with a general prelude to an attack. Some Vietnamese groups, but the Viet Minh mostly wants negotiations. On Saigon, arming 1,400 French POWs who seize key killed and many Vietnamese civilians beaten. Trotskyists) attack a French residential district and children. Gracey arms more French prisoners breaks out. Ho Chi Minh is distressed by as does the Southern Viet Minh Committee. invading forces... Wipe out the French bandits, At first, the Viet Minh isolate Saigon and key transport nodes, like the Binh Loi bridge. and bring in supplies via river barges. The and one of their ambushes kills Peter Dewey. unmarked Jeep for a French vehicle - Dewey British-Indian troops relieve Saigon by so Gracey turns to the Japanese for help. and some soldiers prefer to remain in After interviewing Japanese veterans, historian "[First,] support for the independence movement... some]... had the chance to meet local Rumors spoke of Japan having turned into would be nothing to eat." (Tachikawa Kyoichi) with Viet Minh groups, including Gracey notes the Japanese commander is angry at Even so, Japanese troops become instrumental in prisoners from Viet Minh troops in Saigon. which ends when the Viet Minh ambush a is enough to bring in professional French troops attacks on Saigon's airport on October 12 and with force goes on the offensive. The objective three towns north-east of Saigon. In this zone, and processed, but Viet Minh troops control British 100th Brigade clear out the three towns of On October 24, French troops secure while British troops burn down much of Saigon's On October 29, British-led forces in the Triangle column now including 500-Japanese infantrymen. It British force, CLARKOL, in conjunction while French armour moves into the Mekong Delta. in a rubber plantation. The British use armoured at night. The Viet Minh conduct a banzai-style in hand-to-hand combat. 250 Viet Minh and one Japanese losses. The battle at Xuan Loc destroys the Viet Minh resistance is crumbling accelerate processing Japanese troops. who struggle against a resurgent Viet Minh Japanese surrender on November 30, and by the late In early 1946, the British feel they have They had not expected such resistance, and Some in Britain's leftist Labour government a French colonial adventure, and even some British "They really were a band of pretty unruly a village, without any provocation... was .30 [calibre] machine guns on the cab, all guns floor level... They seldom hit anyone but if that the Vietnamese threw them out." (Prenderghast 28) racism towards the British-Indian troops, while Indian nationalist Jawaharlal "[Indians watched] with growing anger, should be used for doing Britain's dirty work fight as we." (Lawrence in Lawrence FVW 114) will step in to support France. Gracey takes much orders and made the best of a bad situation. did so well against the Viet Minh in 1945, later struggle. Firstly, the Viet Minh were as they became in the 1950s, or later as the northerners and southerners, and the Viet Minh Saigon. Commanders had very limited control of strategy. Key figures like Ho Chi Minh The Viet Minh also stuck to conventional tactics, Saigon. But even here they lacked experience or and some even carried bows or bamboo spears. hand, had lots of experience fighting in violent North-Western Indian frontier. British line of retreat. Despite the disobedience of some, not oppose the British in an organised manner. extremely limited: handing over control to It was clear when these objectives were the entire country, or even all of Saigon. were also hesitant to support a new war. France would negotiate a liberal policy and uncertain. In the North the Chinese Civil War policy and allow the French to return if they Indochina might be decided at the negotiation In March 1946, the French government demands The Chinese occupation forces are unpopular in will withdraw his 15,000 Viet Minh troops from and a referendum on Indochina's future. Soon but only as a free state within the new French the colonies. This is not the independence the he has not abandoned the cause: have always led you on the path to freedom the independence of our country. You know that I to you that I have not sold it." (Irving 20) fire from local Chinese units. They reestablish promised reforms and referendum. One High Commissioner Admiral Georges Thierry who opposes negotiation with Ho and believes His military commander, General Philippe situation needs a political, not a military "France is no longer in a position to control amongst whom xenophobia and perhaps even The differences between Leclerc in French domestic politics. The Fourth as an uneasy coalition of communist, share power. For many, the Indochinese The priorities for many French politicians political stability and European security - not and communist parties are ideologically opposed to the interest of stability with the conservatives. During Charles de Gaulle's time as Chairman for he replaces many Vichy colonial administrators and much of his staff are Gaullist appointees as a French colonial possession - partly reputation. Even after De Gaulle resigns his instructions and sometimes frustrated soon return to power in France and doesn't want "I can assure you that if General de Gaulle were not get away with such impertinence. He would D'Argenlieu adds to tensions when he states the southern province of Chochinchina. Instead, Chochinchinese Republic in southern Vietnam exists more on paper than in practice. as increasing Viet Minh dissatisfaction with the fighting breaks out in Haiphong, so claims suggest up to 6,000 civilians are killed. French diplomat Jean Sainteny is impressed possible. But his critics say he is naive to trust false image of political moderation. In reality, communist preparing for war. In November and Ho writes to Sainteny: I have just learned that you are going to you deeply regret that our joint endeavour I know well enough to say to you that you are and conquest. That is why I want to tell you I remain friends. And I can affirm to you that our already enough death and ruin." (L'Herpiniere 256) attack the French in Hanoi, resulting in a the Viet Minh were not heavily involved, and the in any case, the Indochina War has begun. aircraft, paratroopers, colonial troops and the numbers. Both sides are largely equipped with equipment. The French initially operated locally and recaptured pre and early-war French tanks. Europe arrives, including M4 Shermans, M24 Chaffee these forces, they eject the Viet Minh from Lacking weapons and resources, the Viet Minh two years, they conduct an insurgency across north, especially the border region with China, Truong Nhu Tang, then a young revolutionary, "Just beyond the bend in the river, the guerillas together and camouflaged with thick bunches the French appeared - maybe a dozen boats As they reached the barrier, the guerillas, fire. Downstream, others pushed trapping the flotilla. Caught in a deadly cross simply mowed down". (Truong Nhu Tang, 28/29) in the south to clear out the Viet Minh. the French expand his plan for creating a separate Bao Dai is announced as the leader of a unified French attempt to develop a political alternative Dai's collaboration with both Japanese and French means few Vietnamese nationalists support him. jungles and rivers, Minister for Overseas "There is no longer a military problem in All the roads are clear. All the towns of The situation is not as rosy as Coste-Floret Bao Dai's state and the Viet Minh remain a threat. and French logistical routes are already stretched In 1949, the Chinese Civil War Almost immediately the Chinese Communist they seem to have much in common. Both groups have Ho Chi Minh will shore up China's southern border. into Tonkin to boost the growing regular Viet Georges Revers recommends abandoning the frontier but Paris overrules him. Instead, he is Consisting of hilltop sandbag forts, the French a vital French logistical route. The Viet Minh as 1947, but in September 1949 Viet Minh the ridge and the important town of Dong Khe, assault from 16,000 Viet Minh troops. Dong Khe Viet Minh have their eyes on a different prize. from the Red River Delta to relieve the forts. from the forts hoping to join up with the relief the French are vulnerable to Viet Minh ambush. surround eight French battalions and rapidly and the disaster costs up to 4,000 French deaths. have fallen, and the Red River Delta area new High Commissioner, General Jean de the situation. De Lattre served with the Free troops in the invasion of southern France and the French strengthen the delta positions they witnessed during World War II. French troops fight to the last on the so-called Lattre Line. by his success to go on the offensive. His Chinese French line throughout 1951. Such tactics, which had worked to great effect in China but in Vietnam they wither away under French with napalm - break up Viet Minh assaults with Lattre personally oversees the defence, killing So, in 1951, French military power seems to the Korean War's outbreak limits Chinese the time is right to expand operations and seek First, de Lattre receives only mild support interest in the country, and the fact the European soldiers are volunteers. As a result, force, although they do the bulk of the Germans, Hungarians, Yugoslavs and Spanish make up rumours that much of the Legion are The remainder of the force is colonial troops and religious minorities. By 1953, 160,000 Vietnamese later showed mixed French-Vietnamese units often to the Vietnamese troops' local knowledge. troops to free up French legionnaires and conducts a series of sweeping manoeuvres bases, depots and propaganda centers. Giap falls back on his guerrilla methods. up his regular trained units, and with the Indochinese War will be a long struggle. and now looks for international support for the US out of Indochina, but with conflicts de Lattre needs both financial and military To do this, he rebrands the conflict as a communism. This seems to get some traction in the Cold War tensions and fears of communism. In early government and provide military and economic aid. US help is mostly limited to a $10 million When de Lattre suddenly dies of cancer in November advocate for US intervention, and US President the French in Indochina is still burdened with future president John F Kennedy: desperate effort of a French regime to hang onto Meanwhile, in northern Vietnam, the Viet Giap is all too happy to allow the French to In late October 1952, French forces launch date. 300,000 troops enter Viet Minh territory from the delta defences. Assisted by paratrooper 9 against light resistance. French mobile groups That's when the Viet Minh strike. On November near Chan Muong. French troops fall back to the among the paratroopers. By the time the stragglers Operation Lorraine almost ends in a rep And just like after that battle, Giap and and a desire to step up operations. seems like the ideal opportunity In November 1952, Na San is home and airstrip. Protected by 15,000 Na San is a particularly well-defended Its commander, General Jean Gilles, employs the camp, surrounding the central position with ring. Many are reinforced with barbed wire and of fire. Na San has been purposely developed On November 23, Giap opens his assault on the camp and airpower drive back two Vietnamese attacks. but the French stop these too. target the more isolated Points 22b and 24. Both Viet Minh overrun them. But Viet Minh losses are next day concentrated French artillery and air Giap launches a final general assault during points 21b and 26. The French defenders use close-range artillery and airpower, beating Giap calls off the attack. Once again, it conventional operations, at the cost of around For the French, despite their heavy losses of formula. Both Vinh Yen and Na San have shown and their ability to defeat Viet If the French can establish positions by air - so-called 'air-heads' - the Viet that can be followed up with French offensive As French planners scour their maps for the they finally choose the small, By early 1953, the Indochina War is a stalemate. have experienced their fair share of victories Viet Minh forces wiped out the French border major French patrol in 1952, but they have been defended by artillery and airpower. In their they suffer huge casualties for no gain. hold the Red River Delta, but are unable to pursue To solve the problem, Paris sends General Henri instructed to find an honourable way out of the battlefield to gain a diplomatic advantage. He forces are vital to offensive operations, almost 900 garrisons across Indochina. garrisons, including Na San, and consolidate for a future offensive. In central and southern Viet Minh groups, but elsewhere he focuses on can take over garrison duties, French troops also asks the United States for more help. Eisenhower is now in the White House. He's and is fearful of a similar fate in Asia. In July peninsula's division. On one hand, the Korean to stem the tide of communism, but on the other The experience also shifts US attitudes towards Ho been sympathetic to Vietnamese independence American OSS team had even trained and supplied to fight the Japanese occupying Indochina. sees the hand of monolithic Soviet communism to bankroll Navarre's plan with a $400 million aid planned negotiations with Ho Chi Minh - and Soon, Viet Minh movements force a French response, since the revolutionaries are extending extend the war beyond the range of French making future French operations harder. Navarre into Laos by seizing the strategically important On November 20, 1953 six French parachute light resistance, although even this is more Colonial Parachute Battalion recalled: we were told there would be no Vietnamese. we jumped. Some of my men were killed before stabbed where they landed." (Tucker-Jones, 79) bulldozers and other equipment to create a new as a base for offensive raids and patrols into it will be resupplied entirely by air In early 1954, French forces turn Dien Ben Phu bastions, with an inner and outer ring. Most to the vital airstrips, although several are troops and equipment, including artillery, ten M24 deliver the tanks, they break the vehicles down after delivery. They also bring in Vietnamese A near constant stream of transports eventually - many of them colonial or Vietnamese troops. at Dien Bien Phu insists his guns will wipe out "No Viet Minh gun will fire three rounds But the Dien Bien Phu position has some critical Viet Minh. It is 275 kilometers from Hanoi - much will be slower to arrive, while it is also out of Since it has been developed as an offensively prepared as at Na San. There are large gaps far from the headquarters. The French artillery only 60 guns - is not proportional to the size much of the camp - including the vital The French know about these vulnerabilities, aircraft including a handful of early helicopters are generally considered impassable for heavy never shown much skill for artillery or will merely lure the Viet Minh in, where - much Viet Minh military commander Vo Nguyen Giap the area - about a third of his total regular the Viet Minh can count on more Chinese support. heavy weapons and engineering, and they are including American models captured in Korea, The Central Military Committee of the Chinese "To eliminate the enemy totally and to you should use overwhelming artillery fire. Do deliver sufficient shells to you." (Chen 104) bomb Viet Minh columns on roads and known jungle cut new hidden paths through the jungle - By January, around 240 Viet Minh artillery flak guns have been manoeuvred into the hills of manpower and equipment is a gamble for Giap, result in the loss of precious heavy weapons. and he knows whoever wins at Dien Bien Giap's guns open fire on January 31, 1954, and The Vietnamese gunners are ranging their guns and the valley is a moonscape and assault. War reporter Andre Lebon recorded "It's going to be like Na-San, "Or almost Verdun! This time they'll put all their have learned about big-war fighting." (Fall 136) target the northern Gabrielle, Anne-Marie Beatrice is especially exposed. Viet Minh at Na San. Before an attack, they pound collapsing bunkers and knocking out guns. A "We are all surprised and ask ourselves how capable of producing an artillery fire of such like a hailstorm on a fall evening. Bunker burying under them men and weapons." (Fall 137) from sending help, and Beatrice is overrun on Giap targets Gabrielle and despite a French French counter battery fire is ineffective in the first day. As resupply aircraft of anti-aircraft fire from the surrounding Vietnamese shells destroy C-47 transport planes On March 15, with much of the French Colonel Piroth apologises to officers before the battle already seems lost, but the remaining dropped onto the camp. Up to 4,300 French troops dropped onto Dien Bien Phu from mid-March to early into Dien Bien Phu at night: to midnight. No sooner did my parachute of an extraordinary spectacle--anti-aircraft was a real Bastille Day fireworks show." flights to care for the wounded, and one - base throughout the entire siege to care for The French troops now reinforce the three ways of out the developing disaster. march on Dien Bien Phu. Operation Albatross positions. Or Operation Vulture, which would be The French decide to pursue both Condor and it is extremely difficult to gather the transport sceptical. Instead, Navarre focuses on Vulture. which can blow away Viet Minh artillery and B-29s will be flown by French crews, but given the this is. The Americans understand that the French The request does have supporters in Washington. Richard Nixon support armed intervention But others aren't so keen. By 1954, the US is military expenditure in Indochina, and General suggests further commitment will bog down He is joined by House Minority leader Lyndon B. part of an international coalition, including President Eisenhower writes British Prime Minister "If I may refer again failed to halt Hirohito, and in time. That marked the beginning of many it not be that our nations have learned The letter gets a cool reception in Britain, where the Viet Minh. There will be no international intervention - although 37 American pilots fly officially employed by Civil Air Transport, Some historians suggest Eisenhower knew his way to avoid intervention while simultaneously "if the United States were, unilaterally, to in Indochina and in a succession of to drain off our resources and to weaken So, by late March, the besieged French verge of defeat. The Vietnamese have nearly put the airfield out of action. With relief column in Laos - although poor weather Meanwhile, French air support is ineffective own planes destroyed, it must rely on air support fire means few plans remain in the area to napalm supplies are used up, the French resort to weapons consisting of 11,200 sharpened, finned over a wide area and with deadly effect. assault. On March 30 they target bastions 2 and 4 in the so-called Battle of the Five Hills. calibre anti-aircraft guns used in a ground role, fighting. The French do launch some successful the remaining units. With casualties among the increasingly falls to French-allied Vietnamese, With fighting raging in the east, the Viet targeting bastions Francoise and Huguette. admits the fighting for Huguette "The principle trait of that phase of the battle the battle having lasted a very long time, more - become fatigued and are worn and are faced with able to avoid decimation, which requires rapid To avoid a collapse in morale, Giap resorts to headquarters. Chinese engineers arrive, assault trenches and other siegeworks to close up only hold an area roughly 1.5km in diameter and to para-drop supplies, but many fall on Viet April 22 Viet Minh ambushes and monsoon rains have defenders were under a hail of artillery fire "On the afternoon of May 6 [Major] Brechignac the center of the fighting to look for a less surviving elements of the battalion. I advanced shells never ceased to fall. At a bend in a trench been killed by a shell and swallowed up by the In the final assaults, a new Chinese weapon rocket launchers similar to the Second World War the last barrages on the headquarters positions, they`ve taken main camp. Now only the isolated Viet Minh attack, the defence is hopeless. "hell in a very small place", the French decide Most though will be killed or captured, and only On May 8, while France celebrates the 9th relief units confirm Dien Bien Phu's fall The Battle of Dien Bien Phu is a disaster for the are killed, 6,400 wounded and 9,000 captured. but Ho Chi Minh secures an important Despite significant French and allied Dien Bien Phu signals the end of the French or even irrelevant, in metropolitan France. French respondents took an active interest in what The First Indochina War would cost the including 15,000 North Africans. Up to At the Geneva Accords in July 1954, the China strike a deal. Laos and Cambodia become into two states along the 17th Parallel - a and a southern non-communist one led by Bao Dai the Viet Minh withdraw all units to the north 1956. The now independent Republic of Vietnam troops in favour of American support. the deal is not a good one. They had long however, the Chinese pressure them to compromise. of creating a secure frontier and preventing and powerful independent Vietnamese communist not actually be beneficial to Chinese regional between Chinese and Vietnamese states. offensive" in the coming years to legitimate strategic gains. For Viet Minh leader "I travelled by wagon to the south. Along for they thought we had won a victory. For the US, a north Vietnamese communist state of other Asian states potentially succumbing leaders now discuss protecting South and with the French out of the picture, they colonialism. So, in 1954, Indochina's struggles The Indochina War was just one of many Cold Second World War. Around the world many colonies new balance of power between the United States and was also in a technological competition with their power of nuclear energy. Before his death Josef you want to learn more about the Soviet Nuclear the Chernobyl disaster and beyond, check out our exclusively on Nebula, a streaming service we're we don't have to worry about YouTube's advertising to nebula.tv/realtimehistory you can sign up our content there in 4k, ad-free and earlier like Red Atoms, our WW2 series 16 Days in Berlin Mustard or Real Engineering. And for those has to offer with your family and friends, Visit gift.nebula.tv/realtimehistory for just $30. Whichever option or gifting a year of Nebula to someone As usual you can find all the sources below. If you want to learn more about the check out our series on the Vietnam War or Second are watching this video on Nebula or Patreon, do it without you. I am Jesse Alexander and the only history channel that