[BELL RINGING] This video is about how to lay out a book in Affinity Publisher. Not how to create a whole book, just how to set it up and lay it out in the first place. You can use Affinity Publisher to create a professional looking e-book, or a book for print publication, but first determine if you want an e-book or a print book. It's not a good idea to try and do both at the same time. And what we'll do here is I'll first set up a print book, and then I'll set up a document for an e-book. And e-books you could use as an inner PDF, for example. Now you want the pages set up for the entire book, so you then create the layout for the master pages, and then you can select the pages, which act as templates for all the pages of the book. So the layout for each type of page is consistent. You can then focus on the layout of each page and add the content. So creating a document, we begin by setting out a print book. Launch Affinity Publisher, which I've done, click the file menu, and click &quot;New&quot;. And the new document window will appear. Okay, now, to select print for a print book, just have a screen grab come up there, select print for a print book or web for an e-book. Now we don't want an e-book, we want print for a print book, and some of the other options change. A print book should have facing pages, and that's that there. Should have facing pages selected, and an e-book should not. There's also determines whether the master page has two pages side by side, or one single page. So facing pages, obviously you've got a page side by side. And we're going to be in portrait mode. The book is normally portrait mode, and you're doing something quite different. Check the default master option if you plan to use page numbers, footers or headers on each page, and again e-books don't require this. There's your default master option, just below number pages one. You can use the &quot;Hight and Wid fields&quot; to set the page size, or select the page preset for the size you require. The default is &quot;A4&quot;, so you can see it comes up as &quot;A4&quot; there. Specify your margins for each page in the margin sections if you need to. e-books don't normally need this option. There's your different page sizes, and whichever one of those you select, your margins and page sizes will react accordingly. Page width, page height, and I've got dpi.s for it set here to 300. Color, RGB, margins, there's your standard margins. The &quot;Inm margin&quot;, the &quot;Outerm margin&quot;, top and bottom. Now you can change the &quot;Inm margin&quot; to something slightly larger, to allow for the binding or the gutter size, which you'll have to work that out later. Don't select retrieve margins from printer. You'll run into all sorts of problems. There's no bleed on this. Now bleed is interesting when it comes to paper cutting and documents with graphics on the go right up to the edge. So you need bleed, so that the graphics can go over to the bleed. That's not get too negative. Leave it at layer. Enter a value for the number of pages if desired. You can add and remove pages later using the pages panel. Number of pages? 1. We'll just have one to start with. Click OK to create the document. OK, there we are. Note that each page has a blue line showing the margins. You can able or disable other options in the view tool bar. The page size is shown against the dark background. Now view while we're on the section. And there's your show bleed. Show margins, guides. You can put a grid on there. Show baseline of text grid. Preview made. There's lots of things there that you can experiment with. But I'll leave you to experiment with that at your leisure. The left navigation pane shows the master A page associated with this document. And below that page 1, the first page of the document. So there's master A, this page 1. Now you'll note there's a space there to the left of page 1. Because a document always starts page 1 on the right hand side of the facing page. If you open a book, chapter 1 should start on the right hand side. Page 1 chapter 1. You may have other pages there, but that's not page 1. That's page 1. And it's related to the master A. Now if you double click on that, double click on master A. You can see that you've got a left page and a right page. Double click on the page 1. And it goes back to single page showing. That's the page showing. So how do we set up the master page? Double click on the master page icon in the pages panel. That's that there. We've got main page showing master. It will temporarily replace the single page in the main editing area. The master page appears in the main window and access a template for the pages of your book. Changes you make to the master affect all pages in the book using that master page. And you can apply different masters to different pages. To add page numbering on the pages panel, that's there. Select the master page from the window. We've done that. We've got master page selected from the text menu. Oh, sorry. I'm jumping ahead of myself. We need to create a text file text frame. Tung to it. To place your page number field and optionally extra headers and footers, etc. So this is the master. Let's go to there, which is a frame text tool. And we'll put down the bottom left hand side. Go by eight by eight. She looks eight eight by eight. Okay. One there and over the other side. Now I want to move that slightly. So I go back and select the arrow and just move that in there. Now that's about the same place. You can be much more precise with this. And of course you should be or I can put the page right up to the edge of the margin. That And so is that one there. Now we've got that there. From the text menu, select insert fields and page number from the text menu. Insert fields page number. You do the same over here. Text. Insert fields page number. Now if you look closely at the bottom left hand side there, you'll see it's a hash sign. Just in there, that's a hash sign. Just bring the pointer back so we haven't got that. There's a hash sign. There's a hash sign. Now it's not showing the pages because this is the master page. Remember. Now if we go and have a look at page one. Double click on it. There in the little box is page one. Now you can format that there what you like with it. Put it in position, put it centrally, put borders around it. But that's page one. Remember I said that side of the page is page one. So there's no page number showing there. On the first page because if we put more pages down there, then you'll have page two and page three. And I'll do that in the month. Our additional master pages as needed to create a different layout for first pages of chapters or pages with our page numbers. Click the new master in the page panel menu. You can put a new master page there. You repeat the process for the second master page if you're using facing pages. Remember to put the page number on the opposite side of a facing page. Because this in the middle is your binding. So you want to read the page number out there. Or you can put in the middle. I mean you can put it in there if you like. But it's going to be difficult to read. Okay, there's your page. Now there your margins. But what you don't have is somewhere to put the text. You can put your text boundaries in here. And then every page will have the appropriate text boundaries. Or you can do it here. In that page. And that's where I'll do it for this exercise. Click the first page of the page panel to make it appear in the main window. Select the frame text tool and drag out a text frame to fill the page margins. There's the frame text tool. Should highlight my material. There we go frame text tool. That's selected. It's dark on this dark background. I do wish affinity would last in interface adjustments here. So there's the top left hand corner inside the margins. We drag out a page, a page, a text marker. And we're sitting it on top of the page number. Now I see that little arrow on the side there. That becomes important. There's your text up there. We've got a text box. The quick round fox jumped over the lazy dog. My life. That go up to. Well, we've got aerial. Let's give it some decent. So font we can see. Back issues. And regular size. And let's fill that top space. 18 point. Just a bit to my 16 point fits there. Okay. Now we're down on that section. Next line. What you can do because what I want to show you here. To make sure that things are going right. You can insert filler text. Now this will be for me to tell you as soon as you see it. And there's your filler text. Just right down to the bottom. And that's the idea. Do you have to look at selected pages, add pages. Number of pages too. You insert after you existing page. After page one. And the master page you're basing them on is master eight. Okay. We go. And there's your two pages. Now it doesn't have the text boundary there. Not yet anyway. So there's no text appearing there. This is a good enough reason that you might want to put your text boundaries from there into the master. So that each set of pages you create. You don't have to do this. Why on the edge there. Drag it out. Down the bottom. The notice has got page two in there. We're going to the same over here. And there's page three. So you got page one. Page two. Page three. There we go. Page two. And page three. Now how do we get the text in here. Into the next one as well. There's the arrow. And you can see I clicked on the arrow on the right hand side. This came up in highlight in blue mode. You can rewind the video a little bit. And you can see the link from the previous page. So if you've got a document you want to pull into this. That's how you do it. So let's go down there. We have a little arrow. The right facing arrow. Click on that arrow. Go over there. That changes to blue. And just click enter. And the filler text carries on across the next page. And you can see over here you've got page one. Page two and three. And that's it. It's set up with one master page. And three pages full of text. And back to page one. And the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog. And a whole set of filler text. Now what we want to do for the next bit is create an e-book. Now this can be as simple as you like. No or as difficult as you like. The same with it. You can make this quite difficult. You can export this to a PDF file or a PNG file or nearly any of the. Export options that you have available in publisher. I'll let you discover those because here we're talking about laying out a book. So let's create a new file. Creating a book that's going to be an e-book is somewhat different naturally. Most e-books do not use a table of content, more page numbers. Nor do they care about margins or paid sizes. Most e-book readers need to be able to free flow the text and image just to suit their own needs. Any that have specific needs usually have their own editors like apples pages. And in every case with a e-book, if you're producing your own e-book for sale on your website, for example, as the PDF file, you may find that you need to put in margins. But we'll look at that later. So we've got to finish the publisher launched, click the file menu, click new, and we're still on print. But that's not what we want. So select web. It's web selected. Check the default master option if you plan to use any form of formatting or pre-mort formatted sections of each page. e-books don't normally require this. Make sure facing pages is unchecked. You've got the fault master there, and that's checked. Where's facing pages? There's facing pages there. We do not want facing pages. Now the next bit is quite interesting. Select the page preset for the size zero required. Now page presets are there, and currently it's set to 1,2,8,0 by 800. That's pixels. And the aspect ratio is 16 to 10. Which is an odd ratio, but it's almost a standard web page reader size. A lot of web pages, a lot of computer monitors you'll find running 1280 by 800. So if this is an e-book that's being read on a computer, that might be OK. If you look carefully at those measurements and numbers, you'll see they refer to actual screen sizes. As used by most video or image resolution sizes, the numbers refer to screen size, the second set refers to aspect ratio. So let's have a look and see in here what is there. There's 1920 by 1080, which is 16 to 9 aspect ratio. That's very high resolution, and landscape mode is used by most video recordings done in 1080 mode. For example, this one on YouTube is 1920 by 1080, which is an aspect ratio 16 to 9. But you can't display landscape mode on portrait mode devices, where you can, but it will display very strangely. In order to read the page, you'll need to turn the device sideways. However, this is a good mode to set your frames in because it's easy to read. Set the DPI to 300 for high resolution. Most E-read is used high resolution. It's easy to scale them, but not up. OK, let's set that to that. That's 1080. The false sizes pixels, number of pages 1. Now you can see the DPI because every web page in the world doesn't matter what size of your document is. They run at 72 dots per inch. But if you're creating a web page, and that's the original of this, it's a web page type document, then that's fine. If you're going to be reading this on any sort of a device, such as an Apple iPad or any of the other many iPads, set it to 300. Which immediately changes that up there to custom, so you can create your own custom preset if you want to. By just giving it a name and saving. Actual size zoom will leave that there, but you can see the whole range of things that are available there, and you can experiment with those. Number of pages 1. The false master is set. Click the OK to create the document. OK, create the document. Now there's our document. That will read on a device in landscape mode. Do we want that? Or do we want to leave it the other way around? And again, you've got the mask page and page 1. So let's try another one. File, new, for the web, and the default setting of 16x10. Do we want it in portrait mode? Let's have a look at this portrait mode. And you can see the page with becomes 900 and the height is 1460. This is just the show you what it looks like. Everything else remains the same. And that's portrait mode. And your master looks different. There's the first one I did in landscape mode. There's the next one I've done in portrait mode. Now we don't want any set up on this, but you can put in a bound line. Put in a boundary. Now I'll put the start point where the upper and left side of the cross is just on the boundaries. That's two points in from zero. I'll drag out a boundary. And why am I doing this? Because sometimes when you try and display this on a screen, the text will be right up to the edge of the page. And that makes it difficult to read. So this gives us the two millimeter boundary all around. And you'll see again we've got the ability to flow the text into the next page. Now these aren't facing pages. Text. We can insert filler text. Again, there's our filler text. Create a new page. Add pages. We want to add one page. Okay. There's our new page there. That's page two. Go to the little arrow. Page two. Go to there. You've got to put and sorry we've got to put. Now margins in there so we can fill it with text. Click there. Click on that. Click on that. Turns to blue when we move in there. And there it goes. That's the link to the previous page. Add additional master pages as needed to create a different layout for first pages of chapters or pages with that numbers. And you click the new master to do that. And you can drag if you make changes to that or add another master. You just drag it on top of the page you want to change and it will change it. Because it doesn't necessarily apply to every page in the document. And that's all there is to it. Setting up an ebook in portrait mode. Setting up an ebook in landscape mode in very high resolution. And setting up a print book with multiple pages, page numbers and it allows you all sorts of other formats. And you can put a footer in there. You can put a header up there. Do watch a like. Add a layout of book in publisher. one's on the edge of the margin. [Music] [Music]