In 1927, a tall man called Ernest from this location And as the new president he had this to say-- a copious supply of which have an individual of alpha and beta particles. Now the reason he is because awhile they'd been doing the so-called where they had taken from radioactive decay on a piece of gold foil. Now those of you who that what they were expecting would kind of go straight would be deflected a little bit. And what they actually of these alpha particles back at them in the direction And that was a real surprise. And now we know that the nucleus of the atom-- the But Rutherford to learn more, in order to in order to understand our he was going to have with a bit more energy-- went a little bit faster. And so, effectively, for at that time was the And boy, did he get some. So 90 years on, this is what about a particle accelerator. This is the Large you're not familiar with it. It is a 27 kilometer long between Switzerland and France. And now we think as a sort of huge They are incredible feats of and even culture-- between different countries. But the question is, I mean, when you think about and what Rutherford was atoms are tiny. And there are loads, and loads, useful. So in the universe, was to add up all the there would be 10 to the So that's 1 with That's the same of atoms just in the people in the chairs and the ground. So there are as many atoms as there are stars in Remember that the universe and pretty massive. So atoms, being doesn't immediately going to be that useful. And especially the the subatomic particles-- that they're going And actually, if we go we find that the worked with other were also skeptical One of the famous Friday here was given by J.J. where he demonstrated became known as the electron. And he actually came back. And this isn't that well-known-- kindly dug through and they gave me this allthediscoursesever.xls. And there was a whole host And one of them that they from J.J. Thompson. And he says-- and I'll because my screen are any among my audience, any to the announcement I made here they will, I think, admit that if they'd been told they be listening to on the commercial application For electrons are so small that to give a mass [INAUDIBLE] out move at such a rate&quot;-- &quot;So such properties appear promising from a How wrong he was. And in fact, there was a toast the Cavendish Lab-- it's J.J. &quot;to the electron... May it never be of So I thought, with what I'd start with is to make some particles. So I have here a very rather like the one that And to power it, over here, I which is actually an induction presenting in here-- would So I'm going to switch converts a DC from a battery And then over this crossed my camera is working. If we dim the lights I can move that on there. There we are. OK. So that's is actually So to generate You, more or less, apply and they start jumping out. So this is what's called And some of you will because they were in for many, many years, before So this has some of the basic accelerator. So it starts with And then the next thing we have And in this, all I'm doing across the terminals to rip and attract them Now the other thing I can do is I can actually And that's an incredibly of a particle able to control the And to do that, we So I have, literally, just And I can show you that the So this is just a I hope you can I'll do that again. And this is a basic property in a magnetic field. They will bend around a corner. So if I hold the magnet the as predicted, we should So we'll turn it around So that has a few of the accelerator. And I'll just come But I think you might that they get a little bit And we'll get onto I'm just going to A lot of people talking about that we should start from generating build up how we get to at the speed of light. But actually, when we we start from the other end. We sort of start like a beam of particles So it might be, for to sterilize medical products. And in that case, is actually a 10 of electrons, so quite a bit And in that case, a high is sent through all of go into your hospital. So syringes, bandages, and that on a conveyor belt, and that's actually able every single germ or bit of products when they;re generated. So that translates from a of the accelerator. And that's a commercial system to do that. Or maybe instead, I to, say, scan some cargo. In that case, you could start with electrons, use those target to generate x-rays, through your cargo, and by and if there's any contraband And these are used as well. And there's another at the moment of to do the same kind of scanning. So that's another thing. Perhaps you might Are you getting the a couple of uses here of I hope so. You might want to treat cancer. And actually, radiotherapy-- linear accelerators-- ubiquitous accelerators around. There's five or six of them And this is actually just a Again, it smashes electrons generates x-rays, used to treat like 40% of successful So that's a huge application. Now I think it's fair to predict that. We've come quite a long way. And that's sort of electrons, on to other types of particles. We know how to generate and use those to well, with our So one other area we use protons in particular And one example of is in PET scans-- positron And they're great also use our understanding So in a positron if you don't know, someone is called fluorodeoxyglucose. It's a sweet liquid. And into that is a tiny bit which is being generated using a beam onto a that radioactive isotope. When it's inside the It's a beta emitter. Now positrons, when they come in contact electrons-- they annihilate. So they literally generate two photons-- in exactly opposite directions. So we're able to then going in opposite directions, and build up a picture of what's body. And because this concentrates in high that means you're more where there might be cancer, So that's another potential use. So if you add them being particle physics are loads and loads So there's over 35,000 particle And I've just sort of of how they're broken down. So something like 45% of them and then most of are used for industrial treating things, scanning changing the properties treating dirty drinking All kinds of different things. So you might get the idea are pretty useful machines. And for me, working on like to see what else But before we go going to have to understand about how they work. So in the cathode I had just a single voltage that the particles are moving as they did so. But that's quite limiting gain as much energy as But the other way you can do and try and re-use And that's what this is supposed to show So this is powered by a Van I should say, Van de were one of the original types They use a rubber belt to build goes on the top of the dome. And then I've attached is about 30,000 volts on this here, onto four strips which So those four strips in and the other ones kept those at ground. So what happens here-- and of an accelerator-- ball covered in So it picks up the charge and gets pushed away. And then it rolls around on the grounded strip, So every time it goes it gets a little bit of a kick. And so you saw, when I turned and slowly, it built up some and now it's limited by friction Otherwise, I'm sure it could I'm sure. I'm sure it could. So this is a very basic model but there's a little with how that one in I'm just going to So one of the flaws in that and it is lovely, is that I've just got which I'm really But in order to do have to change the And real particles don't So we have to come And in the real use radio frequency I'll show you in a moment. But this was the idea had when he invented a type called the cyclotron. So what he was doing was taking and using it again and again. And the particle And because it was in a it would spiral So as you gain going to spiral outwards. And so these machines in terms of energy-- So this is a 1 proton machine that he built Milton Stanley a lot of the practical work. And cyclotrons really became the research for a long time. And they're still in things like and actually new forms of So that's the cyclotron. The other type of like to introduce you two circular types which That's one of them. The other type is And this now is that we use to reach The cyclotron was limited that you could use. So instead, we had to come we can reach higher to have these huge, huge magnets heavy. And then a guy called Marcus actually-- invented the Now this machine's because it looks quite It just has a single of different magnets So what we have to do the strength of with the acceleration in order to actually keep And that's where it That's where the synchrotron And there are three of that-- there's do the bending, quadrupole come onto in a minute, and that I alluded to before. So I've just got a Here we go. So this is what a looks like on the And that thing's This thing operates so the oscillations in that And it's fed by a high voltage So inside that cavity, an electromagnetic wave and down 400 million And as the particles they have to be timed that when the field is up it gets a kick forward. And when the field not seeing the field because we So that's quite a large one. That's 400 megahertz, so I actually have here the cavity, which I'm This was developed at CERN called the So that was 400 This one is 30 gigahertz-- So the particles would of this device. And the RF is fed guides, which are on the top, And inside there is where some energy as they go through. But it's not very easy to see of there, so I've got a really you, which is how a electromagnetic feel can give So if we can dim the I have a plasma ball I know it's pretty, but It's generated using a 30 is emanating electromagnetic is what's forming the plasma. But also, those waves of the plasma ball, put some particles in the get accelerated. And you'll notice not touching that. And actually, I can So I can sort of sort of creating a So it does work if I one of the main things is the sort of RF accelerating the particles. And that's why it actually in proximity. A new party trick for you. So yes. So that's how we give But we need to go a little And we need to understand how So it would be easy to assume is get the particles, give round in a corner, job done. No. We actually have to keep And we have a problem with that we use-- and any can't focus a beam of particles So if I squeeze it horizontally, And I'll solve this dilemma but first, I just this is a real, physical It weighs about 30 kilos, so But this one is for a fairly But once we get up to the proton beams-- we need And that's why you get these Collider. So all of that then has to be synchronized together. So we have to have the we have to have the and we have to have acting on the beam in order to accelerate the beam. And on most synchrotrons, like a sinusoidal cycle and we link everything to that. So this is just showing you We would inject the beam at As the particles the field increases. And then we would extract Now that's a limitation because it means-- great as they energy you want, as long as you they have a cycle limitation. They only cycle-- most of a second. The rapid cycling versions are per second. So that's a limitation in a little while. Now backtracking a little I was showing you We face many, many especially in the 21st century. And as a scientist, have to go very far you just have to sort of This morning I wrote There was climate change, shortages, incurable diseases, and terror threats, being destroyed by an asteroid-- An asteroid. Don't get too depressed though. Yet I've chosen I've chosen to work on when all those glorious And the reason is and I want to use from this field to help solve some of these Now the next generation of physics could take any form. So we're researching lots whether that's a very linear accelerator, a circular accelerator, colliding different say particles called muons, version of the electron. And they're brilliant pushing our technology forward. But there are other areas which are pushing us in a So in the accelerator being two frontiers. There's the energy frontier-- that's where we're We're trying to get to in order to reach heavier rare and exotic particles. But there's also something And that's the one And the intensity towards different applications. It could also lead us towards applications. But one of the main to generate neutrons using a and then use those neutrons In the UK especially, people because we have a spallation ISIS, which is at the Rutherford And that's been going And it's generating from all kinds of to investigate matter, and and aircraft wings, and how to save babies with of amazing science. So on the one hand, to generate more how we can generate more accelerator. But there's actually which are pushing our and further. And one of those able to deal with the nuclear of the nuclear waste problem. And there's an idea out driven subcritical reactors. Some of you may have Now this idea is to take a very smash it into a target, in the same way we do in the using those neutrons to drive especially minor actinides, through their cycle the lifetime of that they So one particularly popular called thorium. And thorium is actually a fissile one-- unlike But thorium is about in the earth as uranium is and So if you mix in you mix in these existing types reactive fleets, you would with neutrons from transmute the nuclear If you did it in the right way in, you could generate energy But this is an incredibly, application. So let me give you kind of we'd like to be. This is a plot, in my part of the accelerator power of different a little bit at the moment. But all you need to are on the x-axis and the beam per second-- are on the y-axis. And we can see sort of different So you can see, for example, particle physics machines are not so high up the And so when we numbers to give a beam power, It's maybe 0.1 megawatts. On the other hand, the optimum is about 1 gigaelectron vote. And so you'll see on but up at the top, a bunch which are more attuned to has slightly low energy, quite enormous beam currents. And actually, state of is to get to about over 1 megawatt, which has Source in the US and at PSI, done that before. Now where we need to be for at least 10 So we need to be 10 to than we are at the moment. Now I haven't mentioned When you get higher in to make your machine can leave it on all the But actually, a like transmuting nuclear require us to be So we actually have to reliable-- so less small than we have at the moment. And we've never designed an So just to backtrack a second-- Which parameters do Well, to get to high power, we have sort of three pieces the energy-- but, kind of fixed because if 1 GeV is about the particles per a limitation which I'll And then there's the there's how many you can run the limits your average And I said before that the are the cyclotron The cyclotron is It can't go up 1 GeV, so it that we need for The synchrotron is limited So in order to generate it has to try and operate or to really, really ramp are in the machine at one time, But there is actually And this it's a type of machine And this is called a gradient accelerator. Right now, this isn't going to but the main points in it's a fixed field, we don't ramp the and alternating gradient. And this alternating something to do with the I'll explain a little bit So it uses the same so we can reach high magnetic field of means high energies, and and giant magnets, So the beam in this spiral outwards a little And we've arranged to increase with radius so that as the beam it sees a higher So it sees a field but we don't have to And in terms of could be a huge advantage And to understand a little I actually want to talk and how we focus. I've kind of been alluding one way and didn't the other. So I've got, over here, a very to show you how this works. So if I have my and they're traveling when they go through, they're going to say a magnetic like this-- so if it'll push it back And if it's too far this to the center. But unfortunately, when it of magnet, it will be defocused. So no matter where going to be pulled away from Now I think, to those of you there's an obvious solution and how we make that And that is-- we have to alternate the That's what I mean by And in this particular by actually physically It creates quite a wind. Here's the difficult bit. I have to try and trap Let's have a go. Thank you very much. And again, we'll come back to So if we get the alternating and the right speed, and then we can trap our particles. And that's quite a fundamental And it leads to this principle And this is why the synchrotron and allowed us to reach by alternating the magnets and defocusing, we were able And not only that, but we can than any other way we because it's sort of quite like lenses of light. But the slight is that you can't Now this is, genuinely, a I'm actually not kidding. So what I was showing to you I've set it to a I set it running-- And I put the particle on. And it was trapped for a short But that actually only So this diagram here on the x and the y-axis-- kind the curvature, on one. And let's say we're looking at It doesn't matter. There's two parameters there. We're changing a couple of them. And only for certain sets of The green and the has to be stable in So if I set this running especially if you're might be able to observe I have to feel exactly when There we go. So if you were to observe I'll try again-- notice that there's a of oscillations. There's sort of one round this and then there's And both of those have for it to stay put. So let me just put that Oh, I think that's There we go. I'm not the best at doing that. We have other people Otherwise, if it's not or if it's not in the it goes flying off. So for example, if I do it bit too slow. Come on-- and if I think, based on you can probably tell that But I'll give it So more or less, it just builds And I'll do the same thing at Full power? Yeah. Yeah? All right. Full power. Woo. It gives off quite a wind. All right. I'll pop that back on there. And again, complete rubbish. Completely unstable. And that's because, as you can only be stable And the fascinating thing describes this saddle shape and are focusing in a are pretty much identical. And this thing has a name. It's called a Paul trap. And I'll come back to So we have to set with a focusing system so that it sits in one We usually use the on the sort of bottom because it's fairly easy strengths and things like that. But you can see that it's so we can't just put We actually have to choose very carefully. But I showed you before, that when we do that, Now in physics, in any system there's one problem which which is the problem Now when I say the word know what I'm talking about. If you have a system and you occasionally in the same way every time, exponentially, and you get a your beam goes flying into accelerator, which So this diagram is showing say, the oscillation rate of, So maybe that's the And the vertical axis is in the other direction. So they interact as well. And so one of the reasons why to stay more than is because the turntable because there's imperfections Not that it's imperfect-- It's beautifully made, but just saying. So we will always have little So when we're designing we have a really which is, what value do I to keep my beam in the machine? And that's why I've because it's pretty Your guess is, literally, as But we do-- we choose a We might choose a few. We have some flexibility, so in slightly different ways. And usually, we try as far away from any crossing over points, where actually cross over. And they can be driven they can be driven by magnetic shape-- all kinds of things. So that sounds kind but we do, in fact, as I said, quite successfully. Thank you very much. But we have always to stay away from until a couple of years with a new type of accelerator, field alternating gradient about before. But we actually The machine I showed quite a complicated And someone said, well, simplify the field and these so-called quadrupole a nice, linear field shape? And everyone said, well, Yeah. OK. So what we found was that we through the acceleration cycle. But we let it do that of the things you need to need time to build up. So this type of was EMMA, the Electron Model was, literally, the first of we intentionally crossed through cycle-- major resonances, that's never going to work. But the theory was, if we'd be able to cross through be enough time for those up and destroy the beam. And that's what we demonstrated And the plot on the bottom the lower half of that plot coming down. That's our measurement of is, the oscillation as they're going to So you can see that it sort And that was our demonstration crossing through resonances. And we did, indeed, manage get them out the that, actually, if you go fast Now unfortunately, be applied to very high And there's an When we have charged all in the same place, we have, literally, the repulsion against each other. It might not have occurred to there's all these particles, they're going through this against each other? Yes. They are. And you know what? It's a real pain. If it accelerators we had one particle-- one, like Unfortunately, we try and cram in in high intensity machines, Because instead of them having instead of having one are interacting with each other. They're also, mind you, with the magnets. There's a lot of electromagnetic And so when we have I said before we it ain't a point anymore. Instead, our beam of different particles more or less, a different tune. And this is really when it comes to designing machines. The more particles the bigger this spread gets, the more beam loss we we have of, literally, melting which we can't afford to do. So there's a couple that we could potentially And one way is to design that I work on, which is gradient accelerator. But another one is something which is to take a a special insertion of magnets, with the existence, in of resonances, which It is. It's a very theoretical concept. It's called an integral And that's being driven by So there are a couple of ideas. There are also, of course, You could use a giant although I work on circular ones the linear ones will be And I think we at a generation of So that's when we have to come because understanding work is really hard. If I try and run a literally tens of in one of these machines interacting with the beam pipe, generating secondary particles, takes weeks and weeks, on in order to run a to see what my beam is doing. If I try and study it it takes weeks and And I showed you before that all the time. So the ISIS neutron source, it runs 24/7. There's very little time for And there's, for anyone to because we can't because it So a few years ago, how can we study very intense without building the Because it's a pretty big job. And that's when I for the first time And I came across some from Hiroshima who I now collaborate with. And they are using these beams of particle accelerators in particular. So this is, I promise, I have in here with some This describes the This is on the lower side. And on the left, for beam motion Now a Hamiltonian the overall motion in a system-- If you're not, all I that equation is how similar So the other equation for what we call a Paul trap. And if you sort of compare of that equation, very, very similar in form. And what these colleagues had realized is that use a Paul trap-- a small like this-- to actually of the beams of accelerators. So just to point out a few on the left, the and then there's a focusing and then x squared which is the sort of the And then, on the far right And on the left, This phi is what we call That describes this defocusing, from all the high between the different particles. So this device I discovered the beams in just because we, in-- but it was also able to of those beams. And that was very, So the first thing to learn what the I'm an accelerator physicist. I don't I don't use So this is an electric So the top right there shows excitation of one of we apply an electric and we change that in time-- this or like we change this And that changing does exactly the same thing that does. But this is fixed like a tabletop experiment. So in the accelerator, our It's going through it's going through RF cavities. And it's experiencing these In this trap, we take we ionize with a little and then we do the same do it in time as the beam travels through. And so that means that look at all the but we can look at all these resonances, and high And so I started working with ago. And the first thing to actually recreate that I showed you before that happens in that. So that brings me now to what as well as designing new I'm also building one of And one of the things I is how, in physics, the of these systems actually of different physical systems. So the beam in the accelerator, of these Paul or the particle on this Paul have the same And we can relate them to one So this is a picture It's called IBEX-- intense we're building at the moment. And this is a and then the manufacture. And I'm proud to say that this discourse because this is took yesterday. I went up to [INAUDIBLE] and I took this photograph actually just blew me away. It's so beautiful. It's cleaned for And inside that, is mounted And into that, very have a load of and put the lid and then we'll be able to to explore the intensity with that. So I want to come back, to sort of speculate all the way through, the design how they work, how how we bend the and how we supply voltage. And there's a load come a long, long way in decades And alongside that, of course-- of technology and of that technology-- of particle physics, which are familiar with. But let me go through very that we've made. So I talked before about the J.J. Thomson, in this theater. Well, the particle which later because, apparently, his And then we we're looking at of the photon. And then other types of So there's muons. Now I mentioned before, muons of the electron. There's also an even called the tao, which in sort of medium discovered in the late '70s. So there's three generations of We don't quite understand And as well as those particles-- there's all the ones that make So there's ones that make and those are the quarks. So on the left hand is down, strange, and, eventually, top, as they And those are the of quarks which go in-- and of those quarks go into Again, there's We don't know why. And then, of course, there's particles-- things does all the electromagnetic with, the gluon, which is together with those quarks, do other sort of and then, of course, recently boson, which is the things get mass. That's a very quick rundown of particle physics. And then, of course, there's which exist-- there's They're really And those are the that we could generate with the accelerators. And so we have these different going into the future. But what I'd like going back to the and looking at J.J. Thomson, and we were going to use and, admittedly, his complete think we're at an in history at the moment ourselves, to predict to use all of this So I've shown you a few There's lots of other and things. Maybe there's applications But I want to sort of leave you learnt to understand and control it opens up the question of, these beams of particles in the future? So in the future, if someone's in my presence, I'd like it I'd like it to be, &quot;to the May it be of use to everybody.&quot; Thank you very much. I also am aware of people community investing in plasma not only for high but also further applications. I just wondered if you Do you think it's a runner? Should we be worrying Or is it interesting?