Wire strippers like this one are but a lot of times we don't know all of find on here. Obviously we know that they can strip but there's so much more that these Let's dive into each one of their familiar with it. So the next time you need that, Obviously, the first thing we need to cover is the You'll immediately notice that there's from one side to the other. So over here you can see the AWG, So this is for solid core wires or solid And then over here, the STR stands for stranded. Now, these are different because they need to I'm going to show you a twelve gauge wire. This is twelve gauge non metallic or Romex is just a brand name, And you can see it's just a cut wire, not a lot going on there. This is made of copper. This one on the other hand, is a stranded wire and it's made up of a threads or strands. And each one of these need to be cut a You can see there's a kind of a thick So let's see what happens when we cut I'll start with the twelve gauge. I'll line it up in here, and then you may want to twist a little. It just kind of depends on getting to if that's going to be needed or not. And then once you've got that, we don't need to rock back and forth or we just need to pull away like that. You've got a nice clean cut. Now the thing is, if we take our stranded wire here and we twelve gauge on here, we're running a little risk here. Watch what happens. I'm gonna crimp down, And then it's really not wanting to pull But even if I can get it to do so, you can definitely tell you get that the right size and it doesn't want to And now that I've twisted it around I'm I have to rock it to get it. Cause this just isn't meant. I mean, There we go. Now, you can see it cut all of these wires This was originally quite a bit thicker. And it just cut all of those off because That's why it's crucial that you use the for stranded versus solid. By contrast, I'm now gonna use the twelve over on the And you'll see that we get a totally So I'm gonna place that on the twelve, give it a little twist, and then we pull that off. That went much easier. And then check out the wires. Everything's looking perfectly intact. We didn't cut any of those. And the sheathing is cut right to where That's an ideal strip right there. For the rest of the features I'm gonna bottom here. So starting at the top, we have basically a set of needle nose You can see the little teeth that are And these work great for all kinds of One of the things that they're commonly that are called mouse ears on the outlets So I can take this. It's scored. You can see there's a little line right And so I can twist this a couple times This one's, taking longer than it normally does. Cause I'm on video and it did a crap job You get the idea, though. But you can use the needle nose pliers to Let's see if this one does any better. I'll grab it closer to the actual score And it just wants to break anywhere but This is a super cheap little light switch here. This is the one that came in my house, That's why I don't mind taking these tabs because I'm not gonna use this one. But you get the idea. Even though that required a lot of torque, the needle and those pliers can handle These are handy for all kinds of things. Pulling wire, different things like that. Moving down to our next section here. I don't know what the name of this is, but I call this the wire grabber. That's that little somewhat teardrop underneath the needle nose teeth. And this is actually super handy. One of the things I like to use it most If I've got a little wire like this. So this is some twelve gauge solid. So let's say take this and I'm having a Then I can use the soft opening right in to grab it and pull off. And so it grabs onto it really nicely. Makes it pretty easy. So it's great for that kind of thing use the teeth on there. You just need a soft opening. Then this little wire grabber hole is Now if you know the name of this, I can't seem to find anything about that So if you do know that, Just a reminder that as I'm showing you if you want links to any of these or to I keep these all on my idea lists on my So you can check those out there. You can see the specific tools that I'm can find. And keep in mind that these are all are ones that I've tried out and I trust whatever tool I could find. So be sure to check the links in the Now, but one thing I didn't show you is that you're working with, then, then if you have a ground available from holes, just squeeze those handles together to And then we can see if we try to put it for example, If we put it in the twelve gauge, and just barely fits. It's a tight fit. So we know that this is twelve gauge So if you've got a hot and neutral and a for example, then you can use the ground to try to by feeding it through here like so, moving down the wire strippers. The next tool here is these two little they're the same size, so there's not a different one for solid those labels have to do with the wire These two are the same and they have one and that is to make hooks for your wires, So I can feed a wire in like this. And what I like to do is have it so that see there. I just want a little bit protruding from maybe even less, So it's just barely going to grab on, then bend it around like so. And then you get yourself a nice little Now, I definitely don't have enough jacket or job. So on this one, I'll strip off a little more just to So I'll take my twelve gauge, peel it off, like so, and then I end up with something like And that's much more appropriate. Now, onto a screw, I'm actually going to make that a little And this is where the needle nose pliers They can tighten these guys up just a bit. And those teeth actually really help easy. So I'm going to squeeze that in like so. Then when I place this on, And that's an ideal amount of contact The sheathing is up on the brass plate or so it's not sticking off the end, And then this goes all the way around, And that's exactly what we're looking for. Next up, So we have our blades, And these do a great job at cutting wire. Again, remember that these are really only so you're not going to want to put any But for copper, copper is soft enough that these will cut all day and do a So our wire cutters are great for there. You can use these for other things. You can technically cut Romex wire, like maybe you've got some 14/2, but they're not necessarily meant for But they'll fit and it'll typically work Moving down, we have two more holes and these ones do These are called bolt cutters or bolt And these are coming in two sizes. We have 6-32 and 8-32. And these are for the little bolts or electrical devices or setups. I've got one of each right here to take a So on the left here we have the 6-32. On the right we have the larger and more Now, a lot of times you end up with a bolt It won't fit in, your ceiling fixture or in the box that So you've got to work with that. So I'm going to take the 6-32, and what you do is just thread it right on the face, Now, you may need to squeeze these a little bit to line up the And then as you thread that in, sometimes they can be a little bit depending on how well these are used and So if you need to, you can use a screwdriver to do the In this case, there's really no need. This fits in just fine. And then these are just shears. So if you this a good hard squeeze. And it's not simple. It does require some wrist power here. And then I can shear this head off just There it goes. So depending on the wire strippers that there might be more or less difficult. But the benefit of doing this here as we back this out, what it's really doing is it's It's basically acting as a die. And it's making sure those threads are in into the next thing. It's usually a little harder to take threads again. And then as we get it out, check this out. Now all those threads are intact, and I can just thread this right into It's not going to be broken off or It's really just ready to go, which is pretty great on a set of wire That's really the end of the There's really nothing else other than handles closed. And it makes sure that it's easy to slip repeatedly all day. If you want to keep those closed, it takes up less space and it's less But if we look at some other wire you're going to find additional I'm going to grab some of my milwaukee's Now, but they're close to my favorite ones. I literally cannot find my, These, are called the six in ones. And I've used these quite a bit, but the seven in ones are probably my And they have a couple of different One of the things, the seven in ones that I'll show you on they have lineman's pliers, which is really handy. These ones are also pretty handy, because they have a pretty aggressive And then also they are reamers. That's the other thing that they have. So if you're doing some working with some for example, cut everything out, and then you've got those little sharp then you can use this to ream that out. What is that? That's enough... The built in reamer can be used on half And if you take a look at the different strippers. We've got some reamers on here, some reamers on here. So they're getting to be more and more And they're definitely very handy. So keep in mind, that's another tool that you might have depending on what type of wire strippers Now, you can see are a little bit different But one of the things I love is the These do a really good job. There are overlapping blades, and they do a great job at cutting I thought it would be good to show a So you can see a lot of the same It's just laid out a little bit We have our needle nose pliers up here. We have the wire grabber in there. This one goes from ten to 26 on the solid And again, marked solid and stranded. There we have our bolt shears. Down here we have the shepherd's hook or And one thing that we didn't see on the right here. So the crimper is pretty handy. And if you see on this side, For crimping, And it's got non insulated over here. Now that we've seen what a basic set of all of the different functions and I thought it'd be great to show you real different options out there. There are some automatic wire strippers or universal wire strippers. Pretty cool technology. There are different types of them that do I personally really like the Kleins here. And they have a pretty nice setup. Basically, the idea is it doesn't really matter whether it's stranded or solid. Pop this in like so, and then let it pull apart. And it's going to strip that wire off Super easy to use. So I can do that on a thicker wire that's I can actually use the wire cutters down And the wire cutters on this aren't the but they do work. So I can cut that off. This is a stranded wire. I'll put it in the same way. And then it's going to expose the stranded section as well. So that does a really nice job with that Those are pretty handy. You don't have to worry about what size You just grab them and do it. On the downside, they don't have hardly any of the other They have a cutter, they have a stripper. And that's typically about all similar to Are these Kinepex universal wire Now these are probably my favorite that I These are a little pricey, And if you're doing a lot of wire these are definitely worth it. Funny little cutter built in up here. That, again, does an okay job, at least. There we go. It just pops that right off. And there it goes. And then this is the stranded wire again. And regardless of what size, It's got kind of a little alligator mouth And then it's going to pull that off. Now this one, it may or may not actually remove all of It might just cut it off like it did Then I can take some solid core, like the twelve gauge here. Feed that in. and then off it goes. So it does a great job with that. No worrying about different sizes or Just put it in, and you're good to go. The other cool thing is on this one, so it can remove as much or as little as And then you've got your plus and minus that it's going to use essentially with So typically you're going to keep a little lower for stranded wire. So definitely a pretty handy little tool At this point, a total boss when it comes to knowing functions that we just went through, including how to use some of these If you want to learn more about some of with electrical work, you can check that video out right here. I'm Nils with learn to Diy. Thanks for watching.