Hello guys, welcome to my new video Have a nice day! Hi Boss please sit down Are you feeling better today? I feel better now, I'm planning to go to work tomorrow. Are you new here from the company? Yes, I came to give you the contract to sign. Where, let me see Have you sent information to your partner? I have sent it to the partner. See if there are still any problems Everyone just choose the banana bunch you want Take this bunch of bananas and put them in a bag for me Thank you Thank you Buy them all for me, I will give you a discount Thank you Thank you Grandma, please stay and sell later. Everything is fine, get me a pen to sign Yesterday Hoang told me that he had some trouble at the construction site. Please go see and solve the problem. Yes, I went with Hoang to survey. How do your meals go? My injury does not affect my eating, so I still eat very well Yesterday Tien Tien brought porridge, I was able to eat a full bowl. I will probably cook rice for lunch. So let me cook and eat with you I'll cook for myself later Is work going well at the company? If there is any problem, please report it to me. There are a lot of projects these days so I will go to work tomorrow morning. Please try to advise your colleagues to work hard. Tell everyone not to worry about me, I'm much better now. Tell Hoang to supervise the construction carefully. Yes Boss The wound hurt at first, but it's much better now. Do you have any medicine? The doctor prescribed me some medicine. Much better now But you must pay attention to walk gently, if you are not afraid of dizziness and falling. It's late, you should go home. Okay, you rest, I'm going home. Be careful on your way home. Weigh me these ribs You will take all these bones right? Yeah Give me another piece of tofu Thank you Isn't that Tien Tien? Why does she keep hanging around Eric's house all day? I warned her many times. This time I have to teach her a lesson. Hey Eric Tien Tien! Why do you buy so much food? Not much, just a little food. Have you just come back from the market? Yes, I go to the market to sell bananas Please sit down Have you had breakfast I already ate Let me get water for you to drink Are you able to sell all the goods? Yes, the bananas are ripe so customers like them very much. You don't earn much money going to the market, so you should save it to spend on yourself. Next time you come, don't buy food, it's too expensive. It doesn't cost much, I also go to the market often How is your wound? I feel much better now. You change your headband yourself this morning, right? That's right, I changed it myself Thank you so much, it's been so hard for you lately You have to go harvest and go to the market to sell, and then come here to take care of me. It's okay, you've helped me a lot. So has your family lost anything else recently? My house is no longer lost Since that day your mother-in-law has not come to bother you anymore, right? Yes, my mother-in-law doesn't come to my house anymore. Temporarily still have to be careful, do not be careless If there is any problem, please tell me. You rest, let me cook food You just rest and let me cook for you. Well, let me cook So let me help you What vegetables did you buy just now? I bought ribs and tofu. So I will cook sweet and sour ribs. Can you get me a pan? I will blanch the ribs in boiling water. Before, when I lived with my mother-in-law, I often used a gas stove. But because gas is too expensive, my mother-in-law doesn't let me use it, so I have to go to the forest to get firewood. There was a time when gas cylinders were quite expensive. You play so well What time did you come home yesterday? It's almost morning when I get back Did yesterday's case make a lot of money? A lump of money Who called me? Alo! Where are you I am playing billiards with Mr. Long. Now go up to the cafe up here, I have a favor to ask you Come here now Yeah There's a new case, right? Let's go there Have you ever eaten this dish? I have never eaten This dish needs a lot of spices, doesn't it? Yes, it takes a lot of seasoning You're here Trang, come in! Hi Did you call me here for something? I have something I need you two to help me solve Invite both of you to drink water What's up today? I need you two to help me deal with a girl Now she is nearby Where is her specific location? She is at Eric's house, Trang you know right? I know Eric's house. I'm very annoyed with that girl Now how do you want us to handle that girl? How you handle it is up to you two, but don't let her lose her life. You two just keep hitting her hard, as long as she doesn't lose her life I hate her so much, but I can't handle her myself That's why I'm asking for your help. I don't know her face, do you have a picture? Here, let me get a picture for you to see. This girl? She is also beautiful and tall. Head wearing scarf, hair braided on both sides She's at Eric's house now, right? That's right Trang knows that house. This is stressful. What is your quarrel with that girl? Some personal stuff, not work stuff. Please hit that girl hard for me You, do you feel this is okay? I only hit boys, I have never hit girls. Let me think This case is quite tense What are you hesitating for? I'm quite shy about hitting women. I can handle hitting men perfectly, but I'm quite shy about hitting women Trang is still here, don't worry. This is quite stressful, let me think about it. I won't let you two be disadvantaged You can rest assured on us, we will handle this well I have worked with Trang many times so I feel very secure in giving her work. Now you two go near Eric's house to wait. I think she's almost home Just leave this to me, I will handle it smoothly. Please let me know if there's anything Don't worry, we will resolve it smoothly without leaving any trace. Then I will leave this to you two. Happy cooperation Thank you This time I will see how stubborn you are. How dare you rob my brother Eric I make dipping sauce I invite you to eat You try this meat They sell a lot of chives at the market. This meat is sweet and delicious. The seasoning is very rich I put a little sugar in the spice The food you cooked today is very delicious. Everyone has their own taste, many people don't like sweet. Luckily it suits your taste You eat a lot, don't be shy. The tofu you fry is also very delicious. You should eat meat Thank you Remember to take care of your health, when it's sunny after going to the market, take a rest. Having dinner with you makes me feel very delicious. Every meal you eat alone Yes That right I rarely eat at home, I always go out to eat. Every once in a while, eating this fried bean dish is delicious Have you needed to take any pain medication since you came home from the hospital? I have to take antibiotics I will go to work tomorrow You eat, I'm full. Don't be shy Is it that girl? Yes That right Yes, she wears a headscarf. There's Eric, do you know? Yes, I know Kim too. The house is really beautiful Now we have to stay here and wait for it to come home. You eat, I'm full. You eat, I'm waiting for you You eat fruit Eat it and let me peel it for you. I think I should go home now. Remember to take care of your health. Yes, I'm fine, don't worry. I'm going home now. Ms. Kim is your guest Yes That right She's home. Do you need me to take you home? No need, I can go home by myself. Go home and be careful. Tien Tien forgot the lunch box here. Or should I take her home? It would take her a long time to walk such a distance This road is deserted, deal with her. Hey girl stop! who are you Are you Tien Tien? Yes That right who are you two Nice head scarf what are you two doing Hey girl stop! What are you doing? Give me back my stuff. Have I let you go yet? Really pretty don't touch me You look delicious, let me take you home tonight. Who are you two? I don't know you. You don't need to know who we are If you can go with me, it is your blessing. If you two touch me again, I will scream. Go ahead and scream, I dare you to scream. No one can save you Save me, anyone Dare to shout? If you're good, shout some more. Dare to shout? If you're good, shout some more. You two forgive me I did nothing wrong to you two. You are not at fault with me but are at fault with others I forbid you to tell anyone about today. There is a car coming, Long. Let's just run Tien Tien, what's wrong with you? Don't cry anymore, what happened? I was beaten Oh my god, you're bleeding so much Let me take you to the hospital no need 17 I'm so worried, let me take you to the hospital. no need, i'm fine They slap you in the face If you don't want to go to the hospital, I'll take you home. My video ends here, thank you for watching, see you in the next video