In ancient Egypt bread was everything. Not only was it the cornerstone of their diet but it was also a form of currency and often the way that you would get into the good graces of the gods, that's why they had so many types of bread like this spiral, boiled bread as seen on the So thank you to Babbel for sponsoring this video as we bake the bread of ancient Egypt, this time on Tasting History. Now depending on the era the ancient Egyptians had up to 40 different types of bread , or ta. I've actually made one of those 40 it was a simple Egyptian flatbread a few years back but I've always wanted to make this one not but also because it was boiled before it was baked because we don't know that for sure. Unfortunately the ancient Egyptians didn't leave us any recipes instead they left us pictures but because they're just images, often shown out of So the &quot;recipe&quot; that I'm going to be using today comes from the Valley of the Kings on the walls of the tomb of Pharaoh Ramses III who reigned in the 20th dynasty from 1186 to 1155 BC. It starts off with an image of two men kneading dough with their feet, above them we see baskets presumably where the dough was left to ferment just as it's still done in parts of Egypt today, and then some men bringing the the dough to another the many forms that ancient Egyptian breads have everything from discs to the shape of a cow. There were also molds in which bread was baked some like very long cones, and others like triangles that I've always thought Then of course there is the spiral bread that we're making today. Other men are shown heating an unknown liquid, and beneath them are baskets of what might be dates or grapes or grain. For the cooking process we see a man using sticks as if he's ready to place the spiral bread into another heated vat of liquid. Now many egyptologists interpret this as boiling but maybe it's actually a liquid of oil and he's getting ready to fry it. It's there was one egyptologist from the 19th century who thought he was boiling macaroni, but everything else on the wall seems to have something to do with bread so it's probably bread as well, and since it's boiled makes me wonder if the texture is not going to be a little bit like a bagel. After boiling it shows a baker putting bread into a deep oven similar to a modern tandoor, and then there is more shaping more baking and carrying the finished bread. So would we call that a recipe? No, I don't think that we would, but that's okay I'm still going to make it, but it is why I tend to work with recipes that are actually written down in words because even if they're not in English at least I can translate them with some help from today's Babbel is one of the top language learning apps in the the world and it is a great way to learn a new language if you're planning on doing some traveling or you need to learn a new language for work, or if you just want to get some self-improvement going. The lessons from Babbel are nice and quick, about 10 minutes each so you can fit them into your schedule very easily, and they like to focus on words and phrases that you'll find in real world situations like feiern wir ein Fest! We're throwing a party. And then of course I tend to use this phrase while I'm at any party ich esse den kuchen, which is I'm eating the cake. Babbel also offers lessons specifically in pronunciation as well as podcasts to help get the language into your ear. And to really get going on a new language Babbel now offers live lessons, and you get two free lessons with your subscription plus a So to give Babbel a try just click my link in the description and you'll get 60% off of your subscription Now while Babbel does offer many many languages ancient Egyptian pictures is not one of them it turns out so I'm going to be relying on a lot of work from egyptologists and archaeologists who really study this and have studied specifically the bread and grain found in different tombs from ancient Egypt and so we are going to start with the grain the most important part of any bread, so I'm going to be using four cups or 500 grams of barley and emmer. Barley and emmer were the two most common grains but those are the two most common so I'm going to and you can go ahead and grind them yourself. There's actually an inscription from the Old Kingdom tomb of Ti in Saqqara that says &quot;Grind, grind well. I grind with all my strength. The servant sifts the flour and I bake the loaf myself.&quot; And really you should try to grind flour at least once in your life. It's a lot of work but then you'll appreciate pre-ground flour all the more. I ground my own when I made the Egyptian bread last so it's coarse and it's going to work just great. Then you'll need two teaspoons of salt, a 1/2 cup or 125 grams of sourdough starter. You can also use a pack of just dried yeast and some water that will work just fine, or if you really want to double down on the authenticity you can do like the inventor of the Xbox Seamus Blackley did and go scour ancient Egyptian pots for actual yeast. He took yeast out of these old pots and used it to make bread today. I'll put some links to more details on that. I'm not doing that 'cus I can't, but it's really cool to read about. Now from here on out the rest of the ingredients take because we don't know too much especially when it comes to this specific loaf. The Egyptians sometimes used water to hydrate their bread but they would also enrich it with some sort of fat or milk so I'm actually going to be using 1 and 1/4 cup or 300 milliliters of warm goats milk. Then the Egyptians often flavored their breads sometimes with things like coriander, or fenugreek, or cumin, or made them sweet with things like chopped up dates or figs or honey. I'm going to be using 3 tablespoons of date syrup. So first whisk the salt into the flour and then add the sourdough starter and the milk and the date syrup and mix. Mix until it comes together to form a shaggy dough, Let it rest for 30 minutes then take it out of the bowl and knead it for about 10 minutes and when you're working with these kinds of grains they need a lot of work to build up any gluten so I'm actually going to need this three times. I'm going to knead it and then I'm going to set it aside for a half an hour and let it rest. Then I'm going to knead it a second time for 10 minutes, and then a third time for another 5 or 10 minutes and by At that point you can set it aside to ferment, or rise, probably an hour or an hour and a half will work. If you're using sourdough it's going to take longer,. mine took about 4 hours to double in size, but that's what you're looking for, for the dough to double in size. Then turn it out onto a clean surface divide, the dough into four pieces, and roll them out into long ropes about as wide as your index finger. Then start to coil the around in a tight spiral, keeping it as flat as possible, and then tuck the end in under the dough, and pinch it to the dough so it doesn't come apart when we boil them. And then set them on a baking sheet and cover them with a damp cloth and let them rise again for another couple of hours. When they look nice and puffy they are ready, and Now in the image of the Egyptians making this bread it shows them using some sort of sticks to put these in the liquid but I think that that's going to take a skill that I just don't have I honestly can't even figure out how they're doing it so I'm going to use like a strainer that you'd use for frying, and it's going to work very well. So put the bread into the water and let it boil for 2 minutes. If you have the skill to flip them go ahead and flip them. I tried to do that and it kind of messed up the and just kind of splashing hot water over it for the entire 2 minutes and it seemed to work just fine. Once they're boiled lift them out of the water and set them on a wire rack to dry and cool. Once they're cool you can lift the loaves back onto the baking sheet and put them in the oven at 425deg F or 218deg C and bake them for about 15 minutes which should be plenty of time for us to head back to ancient Egypt and learn more about The importance of bread in ancient Egypt cannot be overstated. In many ways it is why ancient Egypt even existed as a civilization. The fertile fields along the Nile where grain was harvested allowed for the large population that was able to build a civilization that lasted for 3,000 years. A proverb from the New Kingdom said &quot;Do not let the grainery be lacking in barley or emmer for it is upon the grainery that a house stands firm.&quot; That house in this case could refer to all of Egypt because bread was- bread was absolutely everything. Bread and beer which is just because it was actually made with bread but not The people that built the pyramids were largely paid in bread and beer. The average worker was paid in bread and beer, soldiers were paid in bread and beer, and quite handsomely I might add. The Middle Kingdom pharaoh Mentuhotep III boasted of how well he fed his army. &quot;I advanced with an army of three thousand. The battle arena extended to the river and desert. I gave every man a skein of hide and a long stick to carry things as well as two buckets of water and twenty loaves of bread for each day's ration.&quot; I guess they got water instead of beer but they got a lot especially if they're carrying around all of that bread, there sometimes you'd receive a bit of food in addition to bread like some laborers during the Old Kingdom who in addition to 4 pounds of bread, also received two bundles of unnamed vegetables and an unspecified quantity of roast meat. And I'm guessing whatever food you got and how much of it kind of depended on who your boss was, was it just some guy in middle management or was it the pharaoh himself because Ramses II in addition to bread hired 20 fishermen to supply fish to 40 workers and administrators who were building a tomb in the Valley of the Kings. if they are getting paid with fish from fishermen that he hired what were the fishermen getting paid? Yeah answer me that. That one's going to keep me up at night. Now while Ramses II seemed to pay his workers very well Ramses III not so much, he had some troubles making sure that payment came in on time. He's the one that actually is- the tomb where our bread &quot;recipe&quot; comes from today. While they were building either his tomb or another every month on the 28th day their bread and beer should should show up. 6 months in a row no bread and beer on the 28th day of the month so they stopped working. They dropped their tools and said we're not doing this anymore. &quot;It is because of hunger and because of thirst that we come here. There is no clothing, no ointment, no fish, no vegetables. Send to Pharaoh our good Lord about it and send to the Vizier our superior, that sustenance may be made for us.&quot; Making sure people had their bread really food in general was incredibly important especially to the stability of the kingdom. It was the way that the pharaoh kept being pharaoh. When Akhenaten the Pharaoh that toyed around with monotheism experienced any strife amongst his which was rather often he would throw them a banquet making sure that they had more food than they could eat and it seems that this ensured their loyalty. And just for future reference that is also how you ensure my loyalty, more food than I can eat. Unfortunately there were times in Egypt's history where even if the Pharaoh wanted to give people their bread their food, just wasn't in the cards. There wasn't enough to go around, and when that happened it it was not good. It actually is one of the main things that led to the fall of the Old Kingdom. As I said predictable flooding of the Nile kept the food coming in and around 2150 BC that predictability went away and where there just was not enough flooding and so there was not enough food and already the government was teetering because of other issues- this just put it over the edge. &quot;Lo, the desert claims the land, towns are ravaged. Upper Egypt became a wasteland. Lo, everyone's hair [has fallen out]. Lo, great and small say 'I wish I were dead'. Lo children of nobles are dashed against walls. Infants are put on high ground. Food is lacking. Wearers of fine linen are beaten Lo, those who are inomed are cast on high grounds. Men Groaning is throughout the land, mingled with laments. See now the land is deprived of kingship. What the pyramid hid is empty . The people are diminished.&quot; According to one ruler in Upper Egypt which is actually in the South, he said that it wasn't until he started to bring that things started to become a a little more stable so the moral of the story is make sure people are fed and that doesn't just go for the but also on a smaller scale for domestic tranquility, you need to make sure everybody's got enough bread. The maxims of the Vizier Ptahhotep during the fifth dynasty instructs &quot;If you are wealthy and set up a household, be gracious to your wife according to what is fair. Feed Make her happy all the days of your life.&quot; Because if you don't feed your wife someone else will have to do it for you. There is a collection of papyri from Deir el-Medina, this was the village that housed all the workers who built the tombs in the Valley of the Kings, and they tell us so much about daily life of kind of your average person at this period in time. There's one note from a worker whose coworker Ruti has kicked his wife out of the house and stopped feeding her. &quot;His wife spent forty days dwelling with me in my house, and I provided for her, giving her one sack of emmer and ten loaves.&quot; And I assumed that it was her duty to grind that sack of emmer into flour 'cus it was very often the woman's job to do that, it took a lot of work to do but if you had a sister you could often pawn that work off onto her. &quot;From Takhentyshepse to her sister Iye... I shall send you barley and you shall have it ground for me and and add emmer to it. And you shall make me bread with it, for I have been quarreling with Merymaat my husband. 'I will divorce you,' he keeps saying when he quarrels with 'Now your mother does nothing for you,' he keeps telling me and says 'Although you have brothers and sisters, they don't I love that these exist. So much of ancient Egyptian history is you know found on like the walls of tombs of great pharaohs and viziers and it's the the events of of big wars and politics and everything and that's all really, really cool but I am living for the hot goss in this little workers village in the Valley of the Kings. Love it. Though there is some quality stuff in some of the more formal writings of the time like the 'Instructions of Ani' which were basically written from a father to a son kind of telling him how to how to live life and one of them start starts off very sagely. &quot;Give back in abundance the bread your mother gave you. Support her as she supported you.&quot; But then goes on to basically become an ancient Egyptian guilt trip. &quot;Your mother had many burdens in you... You were born late, but she harnessed herself, still, her breast in your mouth for three years while you flourished. Your excrement disgusted, but she was not disgusted, saying 'What shall I do?!' She sent you to school, when you were taught to write and she waited for you daily with bread and beer in her house.&quot; You take care of your mother in her old age. I love these these little parables, I guess I don't know. Anyway there are a lot of these wise sayings that have to do with bread and some are even geared toward the Pharaoh himself. Like King Merikare was instructed that when people come to you to pay homage you can't expect them to be as wealthy as you are. &quot;If one has has no grain to give, be gracious since they are humble before you, and be content with your own loaves of bread, and beer. Grant it comes to you unhindered so do not destroy the monuments of another.&quot; &quot;Do not eat bread without giving some to those near you who do not have anything to eat, since the bread is eternal while man does not last.&quot; &quot;Be content if you are satisfied with three loaves of bread, and two cups of beer. If your stomach still feels hunger resist it.&quot; Now those are all about about treating your fellow man well and making sure that everyone is well fed, people, but it also applied to the gods. &quot;Enter the temple, eat bread in the house of thegod; replenish the offerings multiply the sacrificial loaves, increase the daily offerings, it profits him who does so.&quot; It was essential to offer bread to the gods especially during festivals. There was one festival during the reign of Ramses III to the god Amun-Ra where it's said that Ramses gave 2.8 million loaves of bread to the god. Of course that bread was also for the people who were who were in the villages around the temple because you know the food would go to the god, sit on the altar, then the priests would take the food and give it to the people and keep some for themselves. As one text from the Temple of Edfu explains &quot;one lives on the provision of the gods; but this is always food which leaves the altar after after the god is satisfied.&quot; My question is how they know when the god is satisfied. &gt;_&gt; I'm guessing nobody said I'm done eating, right? I don't know I guess the priest just kind of played that by ear. Either way my bread is about to be done and I am not going to offer it to Amun-Ra, I'm just going to go ahead and eat it right now. So once the bread is fully baked remove it from the oven set it on a wire rack to cool before eating, and here we are the boiled spiral bread of Ramses III. I got to say they turned out really, really well. I kind of thought while I was boiling them that they would completely disintegrate but they didn't. They look a lot like I'm going to say cinnamon rolls, or cow patties but I'm going to say cinnamon rolls. It smells so good, it must be the honey from the water. It does have a little honey-ness in the outside. Let's open it up here. So it's very dense which I knew it would be, just with this grain that's just what's going to happen. But it's not dry. It feels nice and nice and moist. Let's give it a shot. Quite nice There was a hint of sweetness to it because of that the date syrup. I think it could have actually used a little bit more. If you make it add a little bit more. These grains while they're really dense, while they are heavy and are hard to work with they actually provide more flavor than like all-purpose flour. It's a really flavorful bread and then you know you add a little bit of the date syrup and that just kind of adds another layer I think if you added fruit, or I think with this it would probably be better with like fenugreek, cumin something like that, it would just complement the flavors better but really, really nice the texture is dense it's kind of chewy it is kind of like a bagel. The outside I wouldn't say that it is like a bagel entirely very different but it has some of the same characteristics. So this bread obviously was made here in my house but it seems that the best bread of ancient Egypt was made in Thebes. &quot;The bread which is in it is more tasty than cakes made of goose fat. Its [water] is sweeter than honey; one drinks of it to drunkenness. Behold this is how one lives in Thebes!&quot; I don't know that they're better than cakes made of goose fat cuz I've never tried that but maybe I'll try to figure out what they meant by that and so yeah. This with some water that I guess is very sweet mighty fine, and I'll see you next time on Tasting History.