[UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Welcome back to the I'm your host, Rachid Finge, where you hear the that built many of Google's products. And today, we're heading back home. You probably noticed that the In fact, we talked when the changes were who wanted to try it out early. But now the new Google Home So I wanted to find out what changed And I'd love to hear what's So really excited to of Product Management for Google [UPBEAT MUSIC] Anish, welcome back. And just for the people who didn't please tell us a little Anish: Absolutely. Hey, Rachid. First of all, Thanks for having Rachid: Of course. It was actually one so I'm really excited for My name is Anish Kattukaran. I'm the Director of Product So I actually started out my new mobile apps at a couple startups. One was in gaming, the other And this was in the early days of so it's been a little while. And I've spent a good few years on a number of products, like YouTube. So two years ago, when the overhaul and it was just a really And so as I reflect on those two apps both were early in their product We were working to understand what users would to keep them coming back. With the Home app, this is The app is already beloved by You know, it serves a real And I personally have been one of the first users of the very of the first-- the Google Chromecast, one of So you know, this redesign, really, And I'm just super thrilled to be back and what we're going Rachid: And we'll get to But as you probably like to ask our guests what's in So you know, we can look all have this little mission statement. And yours says &quot;Build the most for the Google Home platform.&quot; I guess most people understand But what exactly entails the What is that? Anish: So to build the experiences for Google Home users-- we've updated that a little bit-- I think of this charter as both And you can very easily get into when you lead an app with to get lost in the data. To be steered by averages And you can sometimes that there are real people on our app to feel safe and secure, or just to turn on the Now, don't get me wrong. We're incredibly data-driven. But this charter is, in a And the one thing that delight starts with just sort There's the kind of delight that And they should very much be the So that's how I think about our charter. Rachid: So the last time we spoke, was underway. It was available as a preview for Now it's sort of out of the gate. Everyone can use it. So what happened in between? What was it you were working Anish: When we talk about why we that might be a good Rachid: Sure. Anish: There's the what, but the So you know, while the smart and Nest in many ways in a lot of ways we're still in the So as we looked at our you know, we had these users that were Complete novices, right? And in contrast, some had 40, 50, 100-plus smart So our users had these vastly New users who just needed and our most advanced users-- kind of where we actually see the entire needed our app to grow with them as So you add to the fact is an incredibly personal configure in a million different ways. And for us, the realization was just wasn't built and designed or give folks the ability So back to the question of the what. We went about redesigning the app. We brought it to preview. And if we were to compare this to sort this would be-- consider it sort of like Where we went right down to But then we also bought and we expanded the home And what was really important here is would allow us to keep building So take this new version of to serve millions more on board over the next couple of years. So by the way, if you talking about with all of these So we rolled out the It was in preview. Now it's available to Redesigned it from the ground up. We also rolled out a completely new Home And you can find that at home.google. We built this incredibly integration I'm excited to share And so that's going to start including the brand new And lastly, but certainly not And this is for our most advanced users So lots of excitement and Rachid: Yeah. We've got to talk about all of these. But one of the things needed to redesign the Home and dozens of smart home devices. At the same time, you'll their first steps in the smart home. Maybe they got their first smart bulb. So these are probably Yet, they're all using the same app. So how do you keep both Anish: Not easily, right? That's a tough problem. We spend countless hours I shared last time that to land a multiyear vision for And how and what we build is It incorporates an of what we think the future of and how it should work. And balancing that testing, and explicit feature requests So we've transformed our development to ensure that we have a strong So I'll give you a couple of examples. You know, we started a So very early in the process, we no but we actually build interactive everything, from how a might layout on different screen to how a user might expect tile on their Favorites tab. So that was one. Now, we then paired that with Now, I think we've mentioned before, of been a core part of what we did. But what we changed was that we moved right? So where we were running studies And now we were doing that early that I just mentioned, right? So not just flat designs, So the fidelity of that user So we can get really valuable that have just the one device as well as users who have a lot more. And the third example I'll give you Public Preview. Rachid: Right. Anish: All right, so we shared a preview Think of it as sort of a public And this was a first for us. We ended up having over a sign up and share rich feedback for us. Rachid: That's great. Anish: And that was staggering. Like, I don't know that we expected in the new version of the app. And that was incredibly powerful. There's only so much you can test So in particular, when of devices for millions end up in these endless And then we used that feedback. We used that feedback to you asked earlier what have we while we've been preview? We've been taking that feedback So we made something like 50-plus So for example, the ability The ability to favorite group lights. Improvements to camera Users had shared feedback not being as clear as they would So all of that was a users giving us feedback over and our teams iterating. So can't wait for everyone to Rachid: So that's amazing. Since the preview came out, we had at or updated based on the user feedback. Anish: Exactly. So over the last six months, we took all that feedback in. Over 50 new features, usability You know, we worked to address that users submitted via the app. And then major improvements how fast it loads, how camera livestreams, things like that. Rachid: Speaking of camera just from using the a lot more emphasis compared to the Is that actually the case? And was that on purpose? Anish: I'm glad you could This is one of the things that In Nest's legacy, cameras, of course, right? And now our cameras have just made major investments in AI detection to stream optimization. So you know, we're continuing in both our camera as a sort of function of that. The Google Home app now live views as soon as you open the And very fast, I might add. So this is an example was actually incredibly valuable. So I'll give you a really So users that had just if they had just used were very comfortable with seeing all Rachid: Right. Anish: Pretty obvious. But users that had more smart hold on a second. If I have all my camera then that takes up all of Rachid: Right. Anish: Now, then I need to tap and before I can do something as So, you know, this is a balance of different kinds of users. So going back to one of give users their Home to approach that problem to the Home app via favorites, right? So if a user cared about a particular And if they favorited it, they And then they could of their other devices in the Fully customizable. That's an example of how both plus the investment in giving users is a much better experience for users. Rachid: Yeah, and thanks a lot for that. Obviously, the baby room So we can keep an eye on that. Anish: Spot on. Kids room, right at the top. And bringing livestreams, Bringing it to the first tab of the app, of like performance heavy improvements. But by no means was When you actually click one of the things that users had shared really love is that we of famous vertical video from the Nest app into the Home app. So what that means is scroll through their footage as needed. And I mentioned earlier, performance So the team spent a the latency of our live feeds. The combination of hopefully ultimately are delivering experiences that we Rachid: I guess we could that are at the bottom of the app. So we talked about is if you like cameras, or any other in your favorite order. So the second tab is I think, a per room view What would you say is the biggest Anish: Let me actually just on why we even got to those tabs. Rachid: Sure. Anish: I mentioned earlier, as laying the foundation for the next few years of and that we'll continue continues to gain even more momentum. And so the five tab architecture is very related to how we over time, which is that users will have right? 50, 60, 70, 80. All of your appliances going to become smart and connected With that being said, you're every device every day in the same way. That's why you sort of have to all of your devices would live that you use on a daily basis. And that's sort of the Like, I think of the Favorites as sort of two sides of a coin. On one side, the Devices which is a single place for everything. And then the Favorites tab the most commonly used devices So the Favorites tab quick access to all of livestreams, we talked about that, And then the Devices tab will be all of your Matter devices. And it's also a starting point to the And we've made some big updates So with this update we support Or increased support for Rachid: So what's an can control right now from Google Anish: Where do we start? You can open or close your So for my parents, very, very exciting. We've made updates where you to actually allow the through your curtains or your blinds. You can check whether your washer is in You can toggle an ice maker. You can switch modes on your air So just a couple examples for the kind Because we think that all of ultimately makes things like your Because you know, let's go Just making all of your devices so you can control each one right? Like I think we talked last time about and the vision for it is that you can ultimately versus working just individually. And so that's where automation powerful role moving into the future. Rachid: I always feel that sort of is where the magic happens. But it has to be, I guess, in a way I think there are probably right now who have some And they've actually been coding And that's maybe great for as I mentioned, the rest of us. So how do you make sure that that Anish: Yeah. And listen, we are definitely and those folks you talk about. We can come back to that But yeah, the third tab in And I agree with you. I think this is where a lot of the Where it's going to be about getting I think the big challenge is how do you make that And we think we're taking a first step Now, the Automation tab is sort of where you can get to act as triggers and actions. So for example, you'll be able to do for your sprinklers to turn on. And then set a timer, and then started watering your plants, right? You can set a routine that automatically leaves their home at a very or within a certain time range. So bring more devices into and let them work all well together. And the Automation tab we're going to make that simpler and under the hood. And the idea is that you've got to started with something just the folks who can do the advanced Rachid: Exactly. And it shows that it is easy to use. But then, indeed, those they probably care about the script I think most people are wondering, is that? Can I learn that? And what sort of benefits does it offer time in that kind of environment? Anish: Yeah, the Automation But we've definitely had sort that have been really excited that we were working on a script editor. And so that's about to roll Rachid: Cool. Anish: And so what we did editor to give that cohort of users-- those early adopters, those to invest in getting it very precise-- to give them more control So it's early days for us here. But this tool, what going to provide a new and edit really powerful using a language called YAML. And so you can easily create with even more device and actions that aren't even Rachid: And I'm guessing first because you'd like to hear from and what could use some Anish: Absolutely. And you know what? I expect and I hope that that set of and share a lot of feedback. But yes, that's coming to So that's Google Home on the web. And we're bringing that to the mobile Rachid: Amazing. So those advanced check that preview out, absolutely. You also mentioned the Home Panel, So what is new there? And especially, I think, in the Anish: OK, first off, the Rachid: Yes. Anish: It's a game changer. I'm excited that I can That's really cool. But I've had the pleasure of And I cannot wait for people So to start with the is absolutely critical for this tablet. So we invested a lot the Google Home app for both So you'll see that all of the bar so that users can move around really We made some deeper investments in So you can actually see to the left, the timeline on the right. So, you know, better utilization that you get from a larger screen. And Pixel Tablet and Android these updates rolling out this month. So that was very much a starting point. But then drawing from many of our you know, we kind of asked ourselves, So one of the most unique is it has this awesome dock. So when you're not using it, it acts as this great speaker. So when it was docked, could even better to control your smart home? And so that was the seed of a that was thinking about this. And, you know, what it resulted in And what that is is it makes And it does that by giving you this your Home app favorites, with that you can see at the bottom left And the Home Panel brings You get your favorites, and you get it directly So think about your So today, when you want to do you go to your phone, you pick you type in your PIN or you You scroll through a couple of screens you wait for it to load. We took all of that and condensed it And we thought that itself was So we made it so much or your lock or your cameras. So that was a major Now again, that dock part of So when the new Pixel Tablet Panel does is it actually turns your right? So from Hub mode, the entire household-- can very easily control access to or whatever it might be. And then when someone does anyone in the home can actually You get this beautiful, proactive You can very quickly answer with And so you can access the Home It gives you faster control, When it's in Dock mode, you get that are communal for the home, So that's the Home Panel. We'll roll that out on the Pixel Tablet. But by the way, this is coming to the So I personally have been and it's a fantastic experience. It's coming to the rest of the Pixel as well. Rachid: Anish, the previous time we on the Matter. You know, we said it is the I think we spoke in 2022, is going to be the year of Matter. So how are we doing? And what's the next step in creating Anish: Some of the things that we talked So Google was very much a founding And we remain huge believers and the future of Matter. A lot of that is already here, right? A lot of the promise of Matter was to more interoperable for your smart home. And we're already starting So we have since rolled out from Fast Pair in Android, to set to supporting Matter in a Set up and control in the Home app of And now actually, with this update users up their Matter devices in Google Home. So with the arrival of iOS 16.5, it smartphone you're using, pun intended. Our Google Home users will be regardless of whether And so this is something we at It's a win for users, and of our investments in Matter. We're continuing to invest making it a much better thinking about the next that will come into Rachid: Right. I think it's important for people Matter has been launched and It's basically the beginning Anish: Absolutely. And part of that is, you know, we've for a number of years. I think towards the end of last and started to realize that All of the major providers A lot of the smart home have rolled out their So absolutely, we're in early and excited to continue on that journey. Rachid: Anish, we have We have superfans of podcast and of course and the Google hardware portfolio. And they have sent in questions. So we have two of them. They're for you. Rachid: So let's see how are The first one is from Colin from the UK. And he's asking &quot;With the increase what design features did you on the Google Pixel Tablet?&quot; Anish: I'll talk about two of them. There were a number, but On phones, users use the Right? Rachid: Right. Anish: In portrait orientation. On tablets it's quite different. Users switch between orientations, and So one of the fundamental parts of was, hey, we've got a lot of is in this landscape orientation. How can we deliver better experiences And so I think a good example of So if you switch your tablet you'll see the camera you've got this beautiful And we've adjusted it so that And it actually makes it very usable. You can sort of scroll with your fingers So that's one example. I think the other example The Pixel tablet has this unique And the interesting thing about the you're actually interacting with your different distance than you your tablet in your hand, right? So if you think about it, when it's kind of like a book. You've got it about a half a And your interactions, the touch But when you put it on a we saw in user research is that users at probably arm's length. And so to get really good usability, to account for that. And so that's another example from our user research, we started that users have. And ensure that device that were larger as they moved compared to a phone. Rachid: Amazing. I love that kind of attention to detail. And the second question we have from And he says, &quot;Is there you can do with the Home ecosystem? I would love to restrict what devices couldn't with a traditional switch.&quot; Anish: You know what? That's a great feature request. I've actually been thinking My kids are still young so we don't but I can see myself even needing that. But listen, more granular That sounds like what We don't have that just yet, but it's So hoping to be able to build that out Rachid: Amazing. So thank you, Anthony, for the feedback. It's something we're going to Anish, as you know, before we what is a top tip for users to try So we have this brand A lot more stuff coming What would you say to our listeners? What is the top thing they should Anish: I'll give you two-- I'll give you an anecdote first, Rachid: All right. Anish: So the first one We've had a few users over mistakenly opt out of preview. So they were in preview, trying out And boy did they panic, right? This actually happened to my wife, too. She was using the new app, all of opted out. And she was like, whoa! And what we heard was that to get back to the new version. Because what they told us was once you just couldn't imagine going back. Now, obviously that's I'm hoping that everyone So perhaps, one tip is make it significantly easier compared to the older version. So that's one. Now the actual tip for me is the and favoriting a few light groups is on and off a light sitting on my couch. Just so what that does is, right there's a little icon. Tap Home, and I can turn off all Fantastic. That is one of my favorite Rachid: Yeah, just think about across the room, indeed. So that's much faster indeed. Anish: You know, we talk aspirationally, our goal is to make as a switch on the wall. And I think we're getting You know, this Home Panel you're starting to get actually may be competing a little So that's a good outcome for all of Rachid: Definitely a good sign. Anish, thank you so much for coming I have a feeling this So hopefully, you'll stop by again Anish: I have a fantastic time So thank you for having me back on. And absolutely, I'll be back very soon. Rachid: So Home Panel coming And once again, the latest Home stuff So in case you speak some YAML control over your smart home devices. Now, make sure you're a subscriber so you'll find our latest episodes We still have a couple of They're going to be great. So thanks a lot for listening. Take care, and talk to you soon. [UPBEAT MUSIC]