In Amazon's Fallout TV show, there featured a trio 32, and 33--all connected but isolated from each inhabitants. On the surface, the vault appeared to and council, focusing on preparing its dwellers the vault and restart civilization. However as the a much more sinister experiment hidden beneath In the year 2077, We discover through watching wanted to wipe the slate clean and exterminate the the ashes of the old, using the vaults as a means vault 31, 32 and 33 would be the lovechild was the mastermind behind these three vaults management was the key to progressing society and in his eyes, the future of humanity hinged rather than attempting to preserve the United his plan had a major flaw. An experiment such as employees would not live long enough to be able to around for the long haul was crucial, Bud Program.&quot; in which he would train a select group managing a population. These select few, including and Stephanie Harper were trained to carry on They'd achieve this by cryogenically freezing out periodically across the centuries to supervise 33. The inhabitants of these two vaults would be aiming to produce offspring with the managerial of many experiments conducted inside the vaults way Vault tec could ensure the success of these in order to wipe the slate clean and exterminate 2077, the three vaults were sealed thus beginning would put his brain inside of a Roomba and over the centuries he periodically integrated his vault 31 managers into vaults 32 and 33. As time went on the experiment of the Vault trio was occasional technical issues which would be swiftly making sure the experiment endured for nearly 220 implemented manipulation strategies to maintain 33. They would engineer crisis situations to sway slogan &quot;when things look glum, vote for someone their favor. In the year 2271, Hank Maclean, a former overseer of Vault 33. Prior to his election, a weevil famine would occur inside the vaults which was most likely orchestrated by Vault Tec in order to get Hank Hank's wife Rose Mclain, deduced that civilization in the Vault's water supply. Her husband, now her to stay silent about it. Rose realized Vault with her children Norm and Lucy. Hank, as the and so he would engineer a cover up to hide it was likely the great plague of 2277 mentioned procedure which allowed Hank to leave Vault 33 in the city of Shady Sands, the capital of the of the surface had built a sanctuary above ground. so Hank would take his children and return to the upon shady sands with his wife still inside, future governed by Vault-Tec. Which might I add is from the remnants of Vault 15. Eh, oh well. After Hank returned to vault 33 with his children and peaceful in the vaults once more until 2294, when were nothing but guinea pigs for vault 31's dwellers learned of the secret, but the revelation resulting in numerous casualties from violence as see that their Overseer, a man named Ian Jackson by a mob of angry dwellers. The anti-Management managers before attempting to break into Vault as several dwellers can be seen perished at the an attempt to cover up the incident, Bud Askins would and neglected to inform the overseer of Vault 33, Jackson's passing. 2 years would pass and Vault 32 would NCR remnants. A friend of Rose Maclean before addition to getting revenge against Hank Maclean in order to activate the cold fusion reactor and her group would infiltrate vault 32 using Rose during the Triennial Trade between Vault 32 and was set to get married. They would then massacre a goal which they successfully achieved in the population after the massacre and sixteen violent NCR remnants confined to a repurposed reading room, the dwellers would convene in the atrium to determine their next Lucy would leave the vault in order to rescue her 33 council would be held in order to decide the isolation and idealistic culture, there was integrating the prisoners into Vault society to Lucy's brother Norman proposed execution, which vault 31. The conversation was then shifted with only two months of water reserves. This was to ensure the election of yet another overseer things look glum, vote for someone from Vault Prior to this Norm, who was assigned to feeding revealed that the residents of Vault 32 were his cousin Chet to investigate vault 32, and they had taken place inside. Norm also uncovered