Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I'm here today at the Rock Island Auction Company taking a look at an absolutely beautiful World War Two sniper rifle. This is a British Number 4 Mark I (T) sniper rifle. The (T) designates it as a telescopic rifle, you'll see that nomenclature in their earlier sniper rifles from 1918 as well. Now this particular one is of course built on the Number 4 Mark I rifle, that should be pretty obvious. What's interesting, just to begin with, is the British knew that they were going to want a sniper rifle built on this platform before they had even actually put So the first batch of these what were basically the leftover field trials These rifles were still sitting when they decided to start doing the they just went and grabbed those rifles and you can actually still occasionally and theoretically you can still find original trials One of the cool things about the British military's is that sometimes you get something but you can trace directly back to Anyway, I'm getting ahead of myself here. ... When these ... actually went into production, they What they did instead was they took guns that had shown particularly good accuracy. the famous British gun makers, So scope mounting blocks were installed, and everything was set up this way. So there are a number of modifications and markings to these And I have to say ... this is a fairly easy to make counterfeits or reproductions, And finding one that is in pristine, original, Because again, a lot of these went through retrofit and This particular one is, as far as I can tell, perfect. By the way, this rifle came from the collection of That definitely gives it some sway in the collecting and it should not be surprising that he would have Anyway, let's go ahead and take a and what they actually did to make these rifles. And then we'll come back and talk about how they Let's start by looking at what they did mechanically, and So of course, we have a It was the Number 32 scope. The scope interestingly Never actually was applied to the Bren and they decided it would make a dandy sniper rifle scope. So it's 3x power magnification, This particular one, as you can see, is a Mark 3. However, when they started they were using the Mark 1 They introduced a Mark 2 in April of 1943, and then Unlike many other ... military sniper rifles this does have both windage and elevation built into the scope. So you're These are two minute of angle clicks And the scope is centred on the bore line. it does not have an offset scope. That does However, you can take the magazine out and load the or you can just load the rifle one round at a time. I think the issue of requiring stripper clips in a sniper is not really particularly important. In order to actually put the scope on the rifle, two base And the scope is actually attached by two hand These came with a scope case, so you could protect There we go, so that's the scope and its mount. And then these two pads, mounting points, You'll notice the battle sight on the iron sights has been ground And a cheek ... riser was added so that your face is actually lifted high enough to This is something that is weirdly absent on a lot of other I'm not sure why people didn't do it, but it So kudos to the British for actually doing that. And then one other kind of less important modification This is intended for use with a special shooting sling, Receiver socket here, we've got a So, we have 1944, which is the production date. We M47C right up here. And that is the manufacturer's We have a serial number R35125 there, and then That is a stamp that was added before the guns were that this rifle shows good enough accuracy So you should find that on all sniper conversions. Holland &amp; Holland, as part of their conversion process, And they added a marking That is S51, so that should also be visible on the guns. And then when the whole process was finished and the rifle an inspector stamp was added just here So that's another marking that should be on With any sniper rifle with a detachable scope, make sure that you don't get the scopes mixed up. zeroed to specific guns and you don't So, you'll find these all numbered in a specific way. The base is marked with the serial number of the rifle, so this And then the rings are also numbered. So the bottom So we know this is already And then the two rings will have sequential but I suppose it keeps the rear one So in this case we have A34 and A35, but and they don't have any particular bearing to So you have A34 on the top part of the ring Then there's also a backup system. The scope has its So 24571. They went ahead and marked that on That's not matching the rifle's serial number, and it's easy to make the assumption that it should be and think that this would be a mismatched Down here you have the rifle's serial For comparison's sake we have here And so you can see a few The really visible difference is when they went from But beyond that, there's not a lot of Mostly what they were doing is refining the as well as also being less expensive to produce, One thing I do want to correct. I think I said That was actually on the Mark 1, it has On the Marks 2 &amp; 3 they did change that And then the elevation is not in minutes So it's a range adjustment with 50 yard I also want to point out a couple changes This blue painted B is for blooming. ... it's not exactly clear what the change was technically, but it was done to improve light transmission And then this is also marked with the scope was also treated after That was one of the problems with these is they tended to have And so the British made an effort ... during and after the because they would go on to use Go ahead and put the scope back on now. The rear mount has this sort of and what that does is pull the scope in and Also notice that instead of lock washers these flat wire springs, in there to ... This is one of those things that you don't need to over- But ... you do not want to go out there and like get a set It's not gonna help anything, it will in fact hurt things. So finger tight is fine, the scope's zeroed, Specific numbers are a little bit hard to nail down, about 23,000 and about 26,000 during World War Two. So a lot of them would go on in In fact the L42A1 snipers that were eventually built in So they would have ... a long life Really, this is overall a fantastic Perhaps the only real downside to it is its weight, these So they are a bit of a hefty rifle, that scope is But I think there are a lot of guys who because of the reliability and shootability of these rifles compared So these were officially introduced in February of 1942. And However, the fighting in North Africa and they really didn't see any practical And that's when you would see them ... Production would continue until the end of the war, and this would remain the standard British Ultimately replaced by the L42A1, which so stay tuned if you're interested in the progression And as far as ... what these rifles were actually required ... I think that's a question that ... maybe the answer is going We're living in an era today you know, something that can shoot a one is kind of taken as the default base. Like you suck and your rifle sucks and your scope sucks That's not the actual standard in 1942. These rifles had to be able to put 7 out of 7 So that's a 2.5 minute of angle requirement. And then they also had to be able to put 6 out of 7 Which is, ... if you look at the trigonometry, That's still 2.5 minute of angle, but you're allowed these are not one minute of angle rifles, they weren't intended You can only adjust this thing 2 inches at a time, The standard of accuracy in World War Two was and I think a lot lower than people realised That being said, these are still And, well, any serious sniper rifle If you would like to see more if you'd like to see detailed pictures of exactly what a the description of this rifle and its value estimate from You'll find a link there to ForgottenWeapons.com, where you can It is actually being sold with a number of accessories some extra stuff that I didn't bring up onto camera. So check out the catalogue to see all Thanks for watching. [ sub by sk cn2 ]