Russia has massively attacked Ukraine and Belarus, Lukashenko wants to participate in negotiations, and Britain has named four scenarios for ending the war. NEXTA broadcasts the most important and interesting news up to this hour. Belarus has raised its air force due to the large-scale launch of drones by Russia. What is known about the unprecedented UAV attack on Ukrainian and Belarusian territories? Four scenarios for ending the war were announced in London. In addition, analysts told what awaits Ukraine in the post-war period and what will the election of a new president be like instead of Zelensky? Alexey Yakubin, Political scientist/exclusive that we are passing through some kind of milestone period. Lukashenko warned Putin. Minsk says that Belarus should participate in negotiations to find peace. Alexander Lukashenko, Self-proclaimed President of Belarus Hello everyone, friends. I will be glad to see your like, subscription and repost. You know very well that this is very important for us. Leave your comments. Thanks for your feedback. About current and important events right now. I'm starting. RUSSIA ATTACKED UKRAINE AND BELARUS that 135 suicide drones were simultaneously released from three regions of Russia - Kursk, Orel and Primorsko-Akhtarsk . Most of them, namely 80 units, were shot down over fourteen regions, they say in Ukraine. In addition, according to the official report of the air force, 44 Russian Shahed drones were lost. Previously, such messages were accompanied by clarifications that the loss occurred as a result of electronic warfare. In addition, in Ukraine they say that at least two drones flew to Belarus. At the same time, Belarusian monitoring channels specify that there could be four times more drones in the airspace of the republic. That is eight pieces. In addition, the Belarusian Air Force lifted a fighter on duty from the BarAnovichi airfield, this is also data from monitoring channels. It's interesting, but Khrenin's department, that is, the Ministry of Defense of Belarus, chose not to comment on the night flights. At the time of recording the issue, there was not a single official comment regarding the incursions of Russian drones into the territory of the republic. THE KREMLIN IS PREPARING A PROVOCATION AGAINST AN ALLY . The head of the Center for Combating Disinformation at the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, Andrey Kovalenko, reports about this disappointing scenario . He clarifies that in September of this year, thirty Russian Shahed drones were already detected over Belarus , and over the past 24 hours, according to his data, 7 Shaheds crossed the airspace of the republic. Therefore, such launches of attack UAVs can lead to tragedy. Andrei Kovalenko, Head of the Center for Combating Disinformation at the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine 7 Russian drones flew over the territory of Belarus overnight; in September there were 30 of them; even a "Shahed" UAV strike was previously recorded near Mozyr, where there is an oil refinery. Everything is heading towards the fact that Russia will carry out a provocation against Belarus, as a result of which both civilians and the refinery itself may suffer. And these are conscious actions of the Russians. NATO'S REACTION TO LUKASHENKO'S ACTIONS the people of Belarus. This statement was made by NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte. IN his opinion, such assistance from Minsk should stop. Mark Rutte, NATO Secretary General territory, and this is to the detriment of the population of Belarus. I mean, Belarus is clearly not doing this from a position of strength, and that means it's hurting the country. She is not helping you, she is helping and supporting Putin in military actions against Ukraine, and this must stop. But, obviously, this must be done by Belarus, Belarusian politics and the Belarusian people. But right now your country is suffering because your president is giving such support from a position of weakness. Can Lukashenko stop helping Putin or not? Will he change his position and go? against? What do you think? Write your opinion in the comments. LUKASHENKO DREAMS ABOUT NEGOTIATIONS that without him neither the Ukrainians nor the Russians will figure it out. Alexander Lukashenko, Self-proclaimed President of Belarus, that Belarusians should be present at the negotiations on Ukraine. Why? Because this is our problem. I don't want issues, our issues, to be resolved there without us. Behind us. Yes, behind our backs. Yes, they won't chop off all the way to Gomel through the forest. That's not the point. But they can make such decisions that tomorrow they will have to give up half of the country. Lukashenko does not specify who will have to give half the country. Only once again does he remember the opposition abroad; the self-proclaimed man cannot do without it in his speeches. KEY MOMENT FOR THE WORLD an invitation to NATO. According to the Ukrainian president, an invitation to the North Atlantic Alliance is also a key point in his victory plan. The Financial Times writes about this. In addition, the authors of the publication, who spoke with Zelensky, clarify that Ukraine in NATO is opposed by the United States and Germany, who fear an escalation of the conflict with Russia. Kiev also believes that the war will not end until Putin feels that he needs to end it. Vladimir Zelensky, President of Ukraine end the war. This war will end when Putin is isolated and forced by other partners to move to diplomacy. An invitation to NATO will boost the morale of our people and our soldiers. The invitation means another step towards NATO, which means that their children will not die. Never, because we will be a member of NATO. If we don't get an invitation, morale will drop. In addition, according to Zelensky, there are three paths that await Ukraine after the US elections. One of them is further support for Ukraine by its allies. The other two paths involve improving or worsening the situation in Kiev, but it all depends on who wins these elections. 4 SCENARIO FOR THE END OF THE WAR parliamentary and presidential elections, which are provided for by the country's constitution. New players will appear in the political field, including veterans and representatives of the civil volunteer movement, who will try to eradicate the Ukrainian system of crony capitalism and will fight those politicians who want to maintain their positions. This is written by an associate fellow in the Russia and Eurasia program at the Royal Institute of International Affairs. According to John Lough of the British think tank, there are also four possible outcomes of a full-scale war between Russia and Ukraine: "long war", "frozen conflict", "victory for Ukraine" and "defeat for Ukraine". John Lough, Associate Program Officer, Russia and Eurasia, Chatham House economic and political consequences of war will be inevitable. The main strategic challenge Ukraine will face once martial law is lifted will be whether the country can maintain sufficient unity and resolve to strengthen its institutions and economy to recover and defend itself against future attacks. What does the analytics say? Which of the four options that Laf names can happen? We discussed this topic with candidate of political sciences, member of the international association of political sciences, political scientist, Alexei Yakubin. Alexey Yakubin, /exclusive these and other expert analyzes that have been appearing very actively lately, various rumors and so on, what is filled, for example, with the world media, in Ukraine they are discussed one way or another. This is all due to the fact that there is a feeling that we are passing through some kind of milestone period. That is, partly, without a doubt, this is due to the situation at the front, this is due to the fact that the Russian-Ukrainian war is already ongoing for several years and without a doubt has its influence on both Ukrainian society and, for example, Western communities. On the one side. On the other hand, I think that the situation related to the American elections plays a very important role here. And it seems to me that against the backdrop of this whole story, we are observing a kind of bifurcation point, this is how it can be called, as it is called in social sciences, when In many ways, the past does not necessarily determine the future. That is, it turns out that there is such a divergence point, it turns out that this month and the next month will be very critical for Ukraine. Understanding which of the scenarios can be realized, because, as it seems to me, we are already noticing that these publications about different scenarios tell us about this, that in the West there is a discussion about what the West's strategy should be. TRUMP ACCUSES ZELENSKY and also said that it was the Ukrainian president who should have made sure that the war did not start in Ukraine. The Republican presidential candidate has often commented on the issue of the war in Ukraine in recent months, and in his speeches he has been virtually the same. Let me remind you that Trump's main theses sound like this: he will end the war and offer Putin and Zelensky a deal. According to Trump, all the cities of Ukraine have already been destroyed, and the domes of churches lie on the ground. Of course, the Republican largely blames the Democrat Biden, but not Putin. Donald Trump, US Presidential Candidate he comes, we give him a hundred billion dollars. Who else in history received such money? This has never happened before. And this does not mean that I do not want to help him, because I feel very sorry for these people. But he should never have allowed this war to start. This war is lost. Ukraine, remember, this is no longer Ukraine. Almost all cities are destroyed. All these beautiful golden domes lie on the ground, broken into pieces. What do these repeated statements from Trump indicate? We also discussed this topic with a political scientist. Alexey Yakubin, Political scientist/exclusive I think that Trump, a man who has enormous experience, let's note, on television, was associated with show business. He understands many information points and how they work. Repetition, of course, plays an important role. And he is doing this, in fact, even in the context of this election campaign. But there is another point. It seems to me that his statements regarding Ukraine are, of course, largely dictated by his opposition to the Biden administration. It turns out that since the Biden administration has made the issue of Ukraine one of the key issues for itself throughout its presidency, and this is the Biden-Harris administration, that is, this is what Trump supporters constantly repeat. Accordingly, it is not surprising that Trump is trying to use any topic that the Biden administration has dealt with, especially a significant topic, to show that they acted poorly, that they could have acted better, that they could have prevented it, and so on. And the topic of Ukraine for Trump here turned out to be quite new. That is, he took it from this angle and began to actively promote it. Friends, that's all. Don't forget to leave your comment and like. My team and I continue to monitor the most important news; look for up-to-date information from NEXTA in Telegram channels or on the X platform. Thank you for your trust and for staying with us, see you again and good news!