Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, intelligent than you realize. Have you ever wondered how smart you really to quantify. Intelligence is your ability those experiences to shape or understand your of intelligence types out there, like spatial, intelligence is diverse and complex, judging Intelligence tests are one common way for people of the population. But most intelligence kinds of intelligence out there. Intelligence pose questions related to creative or artistic you may score below average on an IQ test, but If you've never taken an IQ test or don't excel you can use to judge your intellectual talents. decisions, and preferences, so you can sometimes say and do every day. Over the years, experts have think, and live a little differently from tend to maintain more radical schedules, enjoy creative activities that explore and expand their you may live your life in a similar way. special about you, you may discover telltale signs that seem entirely normal may actually be tried That's why, in this video, we're going to look you realize. Before we get started, let's make You won't walk away from this video with a score But if these twelve habits, talents, and that you are way more intelligent than you think. There's a common misconception that intelligent We can thank many geniuses throughout history two great ideas were preceded by many, many bad don't always have brilliant ideas. Instead, they some of which end up changing the world. many smart people apart from the crowd. Creating but the most intelligent people make it look or profound, but if you generate lots of them, 2. A Dark Sense of Humor be difficult to pin down. You may find yourself funny or cracking up over a reference other sophisticated, but if you have a unique sense of Why? Because intellectual people make that others don't notice. Your sense or you may laugh at darker subjects that others time finding an audience for your jokes because 3. Uncanny Memory Recall The most intelligent people have an others don't. They process and recall ideas tiny details and nuanced ideas. But where Memory isn't all raw intelligence. Instead, it Smarter people recall ideas more precisely than their memories. Almost every day, they challenge large stores of information. As a result, their Among your friends, you might be known for your with how much you can recall about things you have a strong memory, probably 4. The Power of Daydreaming intelligent people tend to be avid daydreamers. so when something doesn't is boring, you Studies have shown that daydreaming is activity and cognitive performance. So, if you don't sell yourself short. You're likely 5. Emotional Attunement are separate skills, but these two categories of words, people who excel at cognitive exercises understanding of their feelings. Why? Because emotions and dissecting what they're feeling in person, you're likely familiar with the depth a constructive way. That alone is a telltale sign 6. Craving Total Solitude Most highly intelligent people value they enjoy spending time alone. Smart people as many of their favorite activities, like To highly intelligent people, solitude isn't dive deep into the subjects that fascinate If this sounds familiar, you're probably more 7. Raw Musical Talent Sometimes intelligent people easily master things intelligent people learn how to play instruments ability to understand basic rhythms. Highly most, even if they have zero musical experience. to understand and replicate musical patterns. They diverse musical genres and often get lost in you're a musician or a music aficionado, your ear 8. Understanding Ambiguity uncertainty, but highly intelligent people aren't ambiguity is the only possible answer. The more are to find a clean and simple solution. You may in your knowledge, but that's okay. Your problems be patient and calm in the midst of confusion, 9. Imagination Overdrive Anxiety is prevalent among highly intelligent all kinds of spiraling thoughts and negative time thinking about ways your life may fall apart. manifest as anxiety and self-doubt. If this sounds It's not always fun or happy, but your anxiety is 10. Sources of Inspiration Studies have shown that highly intelligent environments. That doesn't mean intelligent many smart people work well in cluttered For example, you might have books across your in a studio surrounded by crafts or a garage with Wherever you like to work, a cluttered for your mind to work and create. If you're a highly intelligent person, you might absolutely nothing. On the outside, anyone who but you're probably doing something smart people You might close your eyes and sit, pace All of these are ways intelligent people maintain generate ideas and solve complicated problems. a highly intelligent person, thinking may be 12. Absolute Concentration focused? Concentration is a skill many Even if they're surrounded by people, they can something they're passionate about. When that They work in a fervor until they've If you're a smart person, you may have experienced and you run to your desk to get that idea out you can focus just about anywhere because you Thank you for watching TopThink more incredible content is on the way.