The tech sector shed more and the first half of climbing. Google today joined a giants scaling back, thousands of workers in themselves unemployed. It is Amazon doing another Mark Zuckerberg's year of this morning after layoffs and job cuts. The email that was sent everyone in the company 'Unfortunately, your role how I found out. And then everything off at the end I was on the committee college grads. It was like thousands and for maybe like 10 or 15 But I thought if we're grads, clearly the Why would we hire new going to do layoffs? Known for its boom and its fair share of layoffs More recently, the headwinds related to the failure of the Silicon Job postings for software they're down closer to they are actually below So we've seen a much for software development, jobs. But while layoffs have tax booming artificial giving the industry a I have been in San years now, and I have energy. And I was here I worked at Uber, which I representing that mobile you it was nothing like restaurant, every overhear in the street, ChatGPT, it's AI, it's being funded. It's Generative AI startup finalized in the first more than $12 billion, billion invested in the Amazon, Alphabet and massive investments. The U.S. tech industry nation's GDP. It employs roughly 12 more than half a million businesses are of coastal areas, Washington, D.C., San York City. So how have workers, and what will future? The pandemic and ensuing economy into a tailspin businesses to shut their By May, 23 million The unemployment rate highest since the Great companies face a Remote work and cloud people were pivoting boosting revenue. Spurred on by rosy interest rates, Salesforce, Facebook parent Alphabet went on a Meta had about 72,000 2021, more than 60% Alphabet had more than end of 2022, 59% higher But after years of tech's pandemic bubble companies to trim their I want to say upfront that for this decision. I'm the founder and CEO. I'm responsible for the Carl Wheatley, a recruiter Bay Area and spent four social media giant. Meta laid off more than 13% of its workforce in It announced a few months headcount by another I was talking to my family They grew up in the Bay multiple layoffs over the I think for our age probably one of the, I for layoffs. Other companies quickly If you want to think about during the pandemic, I'd number one company that Where is, where are the Amazon announced in workers were being laid said an additional 9,000 trimmed. That same month, or about 6% of its I thought, 'Holy crap, I'm working at probably in the world and I'm and I have longevity. Like I am good for many, Paul Baker, a video at Google for six years. We all got this email January 20th. It just it just hit me I actually froze going, I opened my work laptop denied, no passwords are So I had to look at my an email from them officially terminated. We're giving you two cut off. You're banned office. You cannot nothing.' Company leadership was in Alphabet CEO Sundar compensation, for million, about 800 times employee. The company's climb since the companies in the space workforce include SAP. While tech layoffs blow has been cushioned severance packages. Recently laid off, Google received 16 weeks of pay, year of employment. Salesforce employees nearly five months of Stephen Campbell, a laid off from Airtable, a management service, in One night I stayed up up to a bunch of Slack safe? Are you okay?' And an earthquake in SF? Like, what's going on? Obviously I'm safe, I And as I woke up a little like, I know what this up my work laptop and I like, 'your access to minutes.' With help from a severance co-founded two new machine learning and insights into customer His other business hosts discuss the future of The thing about generative now is that there's right? There's all these fortunate to throw some There's all of this into it. I mean, absurd getting funneled into The difference for me something like crypto is problems for people value for people today. San Francisco has 11 out companies in the U.S. by dollars raised. Collectively, those billion between 2008 and Investments in automation companies could be a recent layoffs, Meta CEO employees prior to its that investments in tools engineers write better workloads. Flo Crivello The company's AI personal tasks for workers like calendar invites and meetings. Something absolutely huge think people have quite everything is about to information economy and Steve Jobs said that bicycle for the mind. I think that AI is like a I think it is going to people work and go about Generative AI could add as trillion to the global I think counterintuitively result in a net increase industry. It's a basic when something becomes becomes more valuable. Tech workers are a tech workers a lot more something becomes a lot more valuable, we want I don't know if I say that I don't regret but getting laid off was experience to me. Really, the only downside shock that was tough to While layoffs are having a companies, the sector is growth and contraction. Tech has always been an churn and that actually So job seekers have flexibility that they tech company to startup grow their career. And at the same time, at the forefront, has booms and busts. The bursting of the earlier eliminated more The Great Recession By 2008, Silicon Valley 17% fewer workers than in But there are a few key around. Even though two men, more than half of 2023 were women. According to a study LinkedIn profiles, the impacted by layoffs sourcing, software employees. Bianca Brown She was laid off from her in 2023. I tried to sleep the night then maybe it was around mark I got the email. My heart kind of dropped. You know, I took a deep okay, you know, this is something you have to The study also found 48% between 30 to 40 years 89% were based in the and the average employee experience. And while the tech jobs are projected longer-term trend, the should remain high for The unemployment rate for 2023 was 2%, well below 3.7%. While tech 4,700 jobs that month, entire year, a were added in IT infrastructure, data tech manufacturing. Employment opportunities predicted to grow by 26% It is a cooler job market was maybe a year or two But at the same time, a experiences from the tech demand. Oftentimes these experience from the tech in other parts of the Tech workers are also industries desperate for from financial services government. Nationwide, average $87,000 annually, U.S. salary of $54,000. California tech workers year. Despite those jobs remains fierce as restless job market. I've already applied to and I've had only two first interviews after ghosted me like didn't nothing. So we're also people just don't get And if you go on LinkedIn, and designers and looking for jobs, right? There's hundreds or applying for the same everyone, put your sales you can find emails and there and kind of find