The way Fallout 4 handles unique weapons is 3 or New Vegas. There are still unique weapons you can earn largely been replaced by Legendary weapons foes. Can You Beat Fallout 4 With Only Legendary I ignored Codsworth, named myself, Legengary, Because all weapons types can be used, there than others. I still drained Charisma and put a lot of but the rest are pretty spread out. I used my invisible legs to push a tricycle it would still be there 200 years later, saw woke up, used my patented close the doors the vault. I forgot to see if the tricycle was still work scrapping every object known to man. Now's the time to explain what qualifies For the purposes of this challenge, a Legendary effect, but they don't necessarily need Kellogg's Pistol refills your Action Points Relentless legendary effect. It doesn't have Relentless in its name but If you happen to disagree with me, that's Feel free to dislike the video. After scrapping damn near everything I could poles in the world. Almost 1000 of them, to level myself up a It took several minutes to do and leveled The first few perks I picked were like my you wouldn't be losing much by not taking Next came the task of getting my paws on a They're usually more powerful than your easiest thing in the world to obtain. I figured the smartest option would be to Completing the ArcJet quest gets you a Legendary On my way to the police station, I encountered Trudy, hoping that they'd all kill each God wasn't thrilled with my desire for blood of radiation as punishment for my evil ways. Danse and nobody else with a name worth mentioning I ransacked their pockets for Chuck E Cheese and the nothing continued. I'm effectively a soundboard at this point, and over again. Why are you even watching this? You already know what the answer is. Danse killed everything in his path until stupid. I activated the rocket test and ran outside In a shocking twist, standing 10 feet away into something that resembles melted ice cream One time I missed the jump to safety, so I mouse. A few attempts later, I managed to get to into paste, I snagged the Deep Range Transmitter, Weapon: Righteous Authority, a laser rifle and the critical meter fills 15% faster. Seeing as I have Luck at 1, this might as I picked up most of the ammo and energy weapons solid supply of ammo at my disposal. I went ahead and reported back to Danse at line a bit, then set out for Diamond City. I'd set the difficulty to Normal, but after bitch up to Very Hard for 2 reasons. The first is to satiate the masochist in me ran their mouth at me for playing on the Easiest concept that the challenge isn't supposed A third reason could be because Legendary I realized shortly after getting mentally, pair of Mirelurks that Very Hard is, in fact, But I didn't let that deter me. I arrived in Diamond City, pockets lined with that garbage to Artutro to buy some ammo, way, and got Nick's location from Ellie Before leaving, I picked up trash for baldy my light gun after he called me a jackass. I left Diamond City in the dust and began A Super Mutant laid down a sick voodoo spell after he died and I started clearing out everyone They had little to no armor, meaning all but few shots, but their bullets did big damage Between sending all those cultists to the been there a long time ago, I barely had any Then Swan bonked me on the back of the head The Triggermen down in Park Street Station Some refuse too accept energy weapons as a shots than average to put to sleep. The first batch set me back a ways, I had I exited the facility and had a new target. There's a Legendary pipe crying out for I could feel it in my fingernails. The problem was that I entered the sewer with Lady Luck was on my side, I managed to finish Big Jim: the Legendary Pipe that has a 20% 18 damage isn't great, but melee weapons it. With my tool in hand, I beat the monkey and to Diamond City, offed a synth and got eviscerated and returned to Park Street Station to finish The Pipe didn't do nearly as much against Still, it was useful to have something to Like if you're shoveling snow and your shovel gasoline and melt it all. The problem of melee combat in Fallout 4 is I loathe it, I'd tell you how much but the Let me put it this way, I hate it as much I used the power of positivity to make quick when beating a few Triggermen to death, and gun to wipe out what remained of Skinny Malone's 4 minute long loading screen despite Fallout being in cahoots with the neanderthals that I followed Dogmeat to the entrance of Diamond make his way to Fort Hagen, scrapped all my it this way bothers some people, installed Fort Hagen. What's that saying, step on a crack, break That applies to landmines too. Except instead of breaking my mother's back and splattered on the ground. Kellogg had recruited my former and now feral me from entering Fort Hagen. Didn't work. Pesky laws kept me from killing them pre-war, I met up with Dogmeat for the last time, he Hagen. My first pro gamer strat was to use the Pipe metal turns me on, but also because I wanted Then it occurred to me that I could recover to kill them, so it made logistical sense I entered the Fort with 41 laser bullets and bullets. Psycho and Jet allowed me to get the upper in less than 15 seconds. With Kellogg finally at rest, I returned to She was gone, so I stole some of her stuff My map pointed me towards Goodneighbor. On my way there, I stopped by Good Street His name applies to me, not him, and because Also, at some point I modified my Righteous burn of a laser was not burning enough. I did a bit of parkour after I left, not that got a few Raiders hooked on death, killed from robo-lady, and entered Kellogg's brain. On my way out to the Glowing Sea, I stopped This is always funny to me, being a foot away Here I found something neat. Spray &amp; Pray, a legendary submachine gun that The only problem is I can't afford it. I could've if I sold most of my ammo, but it in the first place. I tried stepping on a cricket to get it off I really wanted that gun though. I wanted it so bad that I was willing to commit Every soul inside BADTFL building was sent to sell to get it. I spent a fair bit of ammo inside that building to get my gun. Not that it would've mattered if I did because I'd reloaded a save after I killed her the what you're wondering. Defeated, I scrapped more stuff, looked at that's been lost at sea for decades. The syndromes at Easy City Downs were not to kill, and I didn't have a chance to loot Thankfully, I was retreating to the sea regardless not. I discovered Libertalia, sold a few things clear, and took on the forces of Libertalia. Once I got onboard the ship, I began using boat interior, and got this shotgun. It has a name that I'm not going to try With another weapon added to my collection, towards the sea of green. Speaking of green, I killed a whole bunch some green paint for that guy working on the But just like the tricycle, I forgot to give I crossed paths with a Legendary Red Widow myself something worthless, and took the fight If my sometimes official christian ratatouille it's that nonbelievers must be punished I attempted to kill Virgil when I found him, an option. He told me about the Courser. What it was didn't matter, it would be dead Before killing something that technically out the Museum of Freedom for some easy experience, Brotherhood troopers in the area so I wouldn't Brotherhood Scribe. Their life was forfeited the moment they entered The stars aligned, it was actually a solid The knight was a little tough to kill. Greentech Geriatrics was next. The timing could not have been better. I got a shotgun that does 50% more damage filled with them. Yeah... it wasn't actually that great. Only firing 2 shots before reloading was a In fact, the other Legendary shotgun I had with the Nerd Rage perk. A Legendary Gunner guarded the entrance to Again, the timing was perfect. I tried to use it against the Courser after it was just terrible. I switched to the shotgun and shot in the I decapitated a few people, and left to get before finally getting down to business. One of the locations Cricket can visit is I went there and waited in 8-12 hour chunks to buy Spray &amp; Pray. The world was now my oyster, Doctor Amari North Church, and my submachine gun fucking Tinker Bell analyzed the courser chip I found, the teleportation plans from the big green because I had a lot of 10mm ammo and wanted We, and by "we" I mean I, the only person were going into their old base through the The explosive machine gun made quick work on Hard. Then, because this game sucks, Deacon informed because the elevator is busted. Nice job, Bethesda. "You can do this quest two ways but actually into anything". I used Righteous Authority inside the base ammo spent will effectively refill itself Willy Whisper's old gun, and I got welcomed While I was down there, and because I had Special, a legendary hunting rifle just to Then, for some reason, I did a quest for the full of Raiders, meeting a fake person, and I knew that I wasn't going to side with From there, I rode up to the Prydwen with oddly shiny, listened to he king run his stupid his message, met the necessary folks tucked down into the water to begin the grueling The normal mutants were not anything too terrible. Sure, they took at least 10 shots each to The Behemoth was something else entirely. I could've knocked the difficulty down, Instead, I used roughly 130 shots from my shot from my shotgun to finish him off. The Mutants on the main level of the building downstairs were different. Primarily because one had a missile launcher. The 2nd time I was through playing around asses, spoke to Max, and got to work putting Surprisingly, nothing went wrong this time, out of junk, and I got inside the Institute I loaded the holotape with nonsense for Ingram, that he must die. Everything in the Institute came after me, An ungodly amount of robots and peasants ran Most were relatively low-leveled cannon fodder I looted most of the bodies I'd made upstairs After taking the elevator back down, things This is where Spray &amp; Pray really shines. Dozens of Synths all tightly packed into three can damage multiple synths at once. Looting them took far longer than killing I'd forgotten about those waiting for me They were much trickier to deal with. I tried a few times to destroy them all, but to attack me at once and the more open room effective than it was before. Then, I put 2 points into the Commando perk Well, 60% in total, but it went up to 60% That was a game changer and made this gun even imagine. At one point I even stopped to make sure I it was. Once all the synths stopped moving, I had I didn't even bother taking any of the ammo Maxson was pissed, what else is new, I traveled to our cause, made a few upgrades to a few Hospital for the Mentally Unwell to retrieve The only thing of note inside there was the with my laser gun the second I walked through It dropped a Might Missile Launcher which, in practice. After making the Actuators, I was sent to This was frustrating. An enemy looming in the distance occupied I couldn't speak to her. Killing her failed the quest. Fast traveling back to the base did nothing. So I lured a pair of Assaultrons looming outside happen. The Assaultrons couldn't kill her for some Once they died, I could talk to Haylen and The Ghouls inside were all a joke. There was a Legendary one inside that dropped Stealth Boy that literally lasted maybe 40 killing Atom's Wrath, secured the nukes, had gone AWOL. Tracking him down wasn't difficult thanks on my map pointing me to that exact spot. I used the Double Barreled Shotgun that did to the Blimp, spoke to shiny face, and began The Agents they sent to stop me were formidable Not frightening, though. Almost more annoying than anything else. Spray &amp; Pray made a dog's dinner out of HQ, I had another nice 3 minute long loading the Beryllium Agitator. Things got a little weird as we circled around Down in the reactor area, I took a sip of my innards, and began fighting the robots. The Sentry Bot was tough as nails, it should The Assaultrons should not be proud. They were weak and deserved death. At the Airport, Liberty Prime was finally in a garbage disposal that I was following I fast traveled to some place close to CIT hide behind the railing, and did absolutely forces cleared out the area of Synths and I still had well over 1000 Fusion Cells, so as I pressed deeper into the Institute. The combat monkeys were far harder to kill So tough, in fact, that I didn't even kill I did some quick-scoping with a Legendary clips to add to my montage yet, and got a the lower your health is. I thought this would work wonderfully with It... didn't. I did do a sweet barrel roll when I died though. Once I used Father's terminal to open the I used Psycho, Jet, and Med-X to quickly annihilate Even the Legendary Synth died in seconds. I planted the charge, we got teleported to Elder Maxson with my remaining ammo as the 4 with