Good luck. So whenever you're ready, Guys, we're going to roll. -Do you want to get comfortable? I'm Janja Garnbret, and I don't even know I'm a climber and a human being. Yeah yeah. Yeah... So I started climbing at the age of 7, I was also doing some track and field, So I did a lot of sports, but climbing was always my first love, and at some point I had to decide, because I had trainings for both. So my mom said, Do you want to dance or to climb?&quot; And of course I decided climbing and my mom was like, because she'd already imagined me But I just wanted to climb. Basically, I knew somewhere but I never really consciously This was just I love the feeling of climbing. I loved how I felt on the wall so I just kept on doing it. Why was dance not so interesting and I wasn't feeling like myself but I could say that So I always feel like dancing helped me with climbing because the moves you do in dancing on the wall so In climbing, I always felt like it was some sort of I really felt connected When I climb, I'm in my own world. It's just me and the wall just feeling the moves, the movement It's like all the energy that It's like climbing makes me feel alive. It makes me feel that I can express But usually you just see me I feel like I can express myself there. I show who I am, and I just feel- I feel like that it's worth living for. I just feel like it's my destiny, I guess. So I first started climbing indoors, So to start off, I come from a non-climbing family. Coaches recognized that potential especially for competitions the next year I started I was pushed into and they raised me into a competitor. And I guess I was also -Wow. Within one year, you were competing? Second to- Or I was But yeah, I wasn't good at the beginning. How old were you when that happened? When I was 8, and then when I was 9, in the lead I think. It was like I was last, and then 1st, 1st, 1st. Even if I was last, I didn't cry. I was psyched to be among other kids. We just had fun. We were just running around playing, &quot;Oh, you are up in five competitors.&quot; It's like, &quot;Oh, okay, So we just had a lot of fun. I kind of miss the old days just kids playing and having fun. Was there a lot of pressure in So I started winning When I had my first youth competition, and I didn't even know for Then when I was there, they told me, &quot;Oh, okay. Okay, that's cool.&quot; And I won that competition, my first ever. I had to grow up super fast, honestly. Sport really teaches you You need to learn you need to know how to deal In general, in life, those life-changing moments, but in sport I think because you need to know yourself You need to know how to deal But luckily I had parents I like to say that they were my first They bought you your first harness, they drive you to competitions, They kind of miss that now. I always, kind of, knew what I wanted to achieve But I just needed help, Was it scary to suddenly have and have performance and results When you are 16 and are pushed into the big world of competitive climbing, Of course. It's a big stage. You're in the spotlight, and sometimes it can be overwhelming. But I never cared about a spotlight. I just wanted to climb. I just wanted to be there I wanted to show my potential. First, of course, First on the team, and first you Sometimes I think back to the moments But back then you are young, you don't care where you sleep, you don't care where you are, You're like whatever. I just want to be there, Honestly, just the feeling I'm still a kid inside of me. When I'm in my own world, I feel light And it's just me and myself and and I enjoyed this when And I always said that fun I know if I stop having fun, there won't be any results, I won't enjoy anything. So even if I feel stressed I try to go with my mind and I always say, &quot;First, have fun. That self-belief that you talk about, do you think that came from your parents or do you think that in you naturally or This self-belief, and this is just also who I am. I kind of always believe When I watched my role models, I was like, If that girl can do it, I also can do it.&quot; So I always had But also my parents always to decide on a life path and stick to it. At what age did you formulate this idea that you could do I just had that inner fire this is what I want to do. Of course, as a young girl, Back then it was Maja Vidmar, and I would just watch them I wanted to have results like them. I wanted to imitate them But if you want to be truly successful and if you want to be competitive for you need to find your own personality Also, my style of climbing When I started climbing, because Mina and Maja and I wanted to be like them. So I imitated their climbing Fun fact: I also said I won't which is so funny when I think back now. But they were the best in lead, so And it's kind of also girls were more of a lead climber But then at some point, I could also be good at bouldering.&quot; But then there's a point when Now you want to beat them. Have your role models changed? I always loved athletes that were on the top of their sport They were dominant. I was thinking how can That's crazy. But then I was thinking, and I've been on the top I also find it crazy, everybody who shows and shares They never say, &quot;Okay, I'm on the top. They just keep on working every single day and this is the thing that So you mentioned, I think the other day, and what she said about or Michael Phelps, So how does that statement Yeah, I love her. I love that quote that she said because people all the time You can't help it, Compare you to Messi, to Simone, You're always in some kind of comparison, has their own personality &quot;I'm the first Simone Biles,&quot; So each person is their own person their own weaknesses, Are you aware of that sort of shift that other climbers are looking up to or does that Right now, I feel very much aware of it. It's kind of crazy to think that But now in a short period of time, Now I'm a role model, to be in this position. I don't want to be a perfect role model, I want to show them all not the good sides, not the easy side of it, and I just want to show them if you dream big, But I want to show them through climbing, especially because they only and with my personality there I want to show them It's amazing that I can help just by expressing my personality and my passion for climbing. If you could give a piece maybe at 15 years old or 10 years old, have you got an idea I would say to myself, &quot;Don't be frustrated It doesn't matter if you had one bad day. It doesn't matter if There's always a next one. Try to be kind to yourself, even kinder, Again, I am who I am. Either you like me or you don't. So I cannot convince you to like me, but you have to decide So I realized it's just and do your own thing, It's one less thing to worry about. I'm talking too much.