Mont Blanc massif. On 23 July 1951 Walter Bonatti and Luciano Ghigo climbed the east face of the Grand Capucin pinnacle. It's one of the most iconic multi-pitch routes in the World, climbed and dreamed of by the best alpinists of all times. The Grand Capucin climb proved how seemingly impossible pursuits could be possible with the same number and type of technical gear used in the 30s and 40s to summit the so-called grade VI walls. State of Grace The history of our mountain museum is very long almost as long as the one of the Italian Alpine Club, which was founded in 1863. Our museum was founded in 1874, only a few years later, in this very building. It's an ongoing flashback. At the Mountain Museum of Turin we travel back in time. The old newspaper pages bring us back to the heart of the Mont Blanc massif to relive Walter Bonatti's pursuit. Between 20 and 23 July 1951 he summited the Grand Capucin with Luciano Ghigo, his climbing partner. Their pursuit marked the history of alpinism. He started collecting all news articles as if he knew... - He was far-sighted! - As if he knew... - He knew they would... - He knew that would be important documentation! We received his archive in 2016, thanks to Walter Bonatti's family donation. That moment was very important to us, as we could have new and deeper insights into his rich archive. Looking at his archive, it is clear that he tried to approach the environment and nature in the most respectful way. He felt as part of a whole. Mont Blanc was an ambitious goal for all alpinists at the time. He understood that was where he could write history and so he did. In this folder, we can read what gear he used to climb and summit the Grand Capucin. Departure from the hut: 3:00 am. First bivouac: 8:30 pm. His climbing partner, Luciano Ghigo, used to work here at the museum. Luciano was a super fun person. We talked about their pursuit occasionally, I'd ask him to tell me about it. - I bet! - I'd ask him which pitches he climbed on Grand Capucin and I remember him asking me back: &quot;Do you mean the pitches I lead? None! Bonatti didn't let me lead anything! I top roped them and that was already difficult enough!&quot; This piece is interesting, it tells us a bit of the history of Grand Capucin. These are the wedge prototypes he created. He had them made to attempt his climb of Grand Capucin when he freed the route with Luciano Ghigo in 1951. When I went to Grand Capucin with Ghigo I remember on our way to Colle del Gigante we met Giulio Salomoni. We asked him: &quot;Giulio: do you have any spare wood? We are looking for some robust wood!&quot; That is where we built our wedges. The east face of Grand Capucin is made of flat and smooth slabs, a maze of thin cracks, dihedrons, and horizontal roofs. Walter Bonatti succedeed in what seemed to be an impossible pursuit: four days on the wall, three bivouacs with only few pitons. Guided by his instinct, he made a miracle and freed a 400m vertical route, in its exact and geometrical sense. How do you think they felt, climb such a route with the gear of the time? It was a crazy pursuit for that time! Just by looking at the Grand Capucin it is clear its surfaces are flat with only few and thin cracks. Its walls are almost overhanging, they are not only vertical. Thinking to climb that route with pitons and without friends, which did not exist at the time, climbing up those overhanging walls with boots. I imagine it was perceived as a crazy pursuit! - This object here... - Essential! - Many people would love to hold this. I always hang a stuffed bear on my backpack, he's my mascotte. I'd talk to him in the bivouacs or on the most difficult moves and I think he answered me back! A double loop of steel wire was enough to fix the rope with a carabiner. That's how I climbed Capucin and Dru Our gear was even more rudimental than pre-war alpinism gear! It was my way to measure myself against the past. I never wanted to come up with technical innovations I only wanted to see what I could accomplish with the gear of my predecessors. In 2021, the museum opened the &quot;State of Grace&quot; exhibition. &quot;State of grace&quot; is an expression frequently used by Bonatti in his scripts and conferences to describe that feeling of ecstasy and complete harmony with nature. It feels like another dimension. I think what &quot;state of grace&quot; means not to be afraid. When you start being afraid, you cannot be in a state of grace anymore because you are influenced by a negative mood. To climb the Bonatti-Ghigo route today means experiencing Walter Bonatti's genius. Quoting Michele Serra's words, when you are Bonatti you measure yourself against the laws of gravity, temperatures, inclines, and snow and ice's consistency which are all material quantities and qualities, not opinions. I can see a little of myself in Bonatti's personality. I resonate with him because I can't focus on only one aspect but I like to grow and evolve thanks to the experiences I make. And this is how I believe alpinism will keep evolving. A man who succeeded in the extraordinary pursuit of his dreams. Walter Bonatti kept returning to Mont Blanc as a son going back to his father. In 2010, he became the first and only Mont Blanc citizen. To become an alpinist, you have to use your head and your heart, not your muscles. This is what I believe, now and always. Muscles won't take you too far on the mountains. It may seem a contradiction, but it's not. In memory of Walter Bonatti A man who lived his life at its fullest Bonatti and Ghigo summited the Grand Capucin on their second attempt, between July 20 and 23, 1951 with 3 on-wall bivouacs and 44 climbing hours in mixed weather conditions. Federica Mingolla and her climbing partner free climbed it in 11 hours (including shooting time) on 14 June 2023 in mixed weather conditions. Bonatti's gear: 35 pitons, 2 wooden wedges, 3 rope ladders, 2 hemp ropes (98,43ft each), 3 closed loop hemp ropes (used as a stirrup) Mingolla's gear: two 196,85ft ropes, a full quickdraw set, a full friends set, climbing shoes, lanyards, helmets, harnesses.