In this video, you will learn about the top 25 most important Warren Buffett, the greatest investor The deals that made him For anyone interested in understanding it is essential to know And I think you might be surprised even if you've seen a few or read a couple of books For example, his investment in Apple for about This is The Swedish Investor, bringing you the best tips and tools through stock market investing. Before revealing the number 25 spot on this list, which is Disney, let's sort out what these rankings are based on. To avoid hindsight bias, I will present investments with What matters is how convinced Warren or, in other words, how much he was willing So, a deal of $10m at a time when will be ranked higher than a deal of $20m With that out of the way ... The 25th most important deal ever In 1966 Buffett bought the Walt Disney Company through his then existing investment partnership, Buffett Partnership Limited, or BPL. The partnership spent $4m for at a time when the market cap of Disney As Buffett had pretty much all his net worth and the partnership spent about this represented 9% of his then net worth. He sold the shares a year later for Buffett has jokingly been saying that but only if you exclude the fact that Buffett hadn't yet learned that his favourite The oracle of Omaha has revealed partly why - Buffett understood the recycle value Remakes and sequels could be released frequently, and the movies would appeal to It's like having an oil well - Moreover, costs for actors could be kept down compared to other companies in the film industry. Mickey Mouse would never argue for a raise. - Most importantly, the company was Says Buffett: "At Disneyland, the $17m Pirates of Imagine my excitement - a company One lesson to be learned here is that you shouldn't sell a wonderful even if the price might have "Time is the friend of the wonderful company, Number 24: The Washington Post From film &amp; amusement parks to newspapers. In 1973 Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway bought Coincidentally, Buffett's stake also represented about 9% of his then net worth. The Post was earnings $9.7m in 1972 and so the price-to-earnings ratio or P/E of the At their peak in 2005, Berkshire's shares but most newspapers have been killed during Therefore, in 2014, Buffett sold the company, Why was Buffett interested in - Back in the 70s, newspapers were if they were dominant in their cities. Buffett liked this type of business because First, everyone in Washington on what was going on in the world had to pay for the paper. And then, as pretty much everyone advertisers had to pay whatever if they wanted to reach - Also, the company was cheap. It had fallen from a valuation of about Buffett knew that Mr. Market was acting irrationally. One takeaway from this investment is that the beta and volatility of a stock is not Said Buffett: "And because it happened very fast, and a professor would have told you that if you bought it for 80 million than Which is something that I've thought about and I still haven't figured it out." Moving on to number 23: Scott Fetzer Scott Fetzer was (is) a conglomerate of businesses and at the time when Warren Buffett purchased it, the two largest operations were the World Book, primarily a manufacturer of vacuum cleaners. These two companies represented and this investment shows that boredom-arbitrage really is a thing within the field of investing. The company was bought by Berkshire Hathaway on January 1st 1986 for a price of $315m, and Buffett spent 10% of his personal net worth here. This is the first deal, but definitely not the last, where Buffett bought the entire business and not just a bunch of shares in the market. With $40.6m in net earnings in 1984, the purchase was made at a P/E ratio of about 8. It is uncertain how great the profits but we know that Scott Fetzer distributed during the first 15 years it was owned. Why was Buffett interested in Well, in his 1985 annual letter to Warren Buffett says that Scott Fetzer is a prototype of the sort of businesses that he wishes to purchase. It's understandable, large, An interesting story related to this investment, which also acts as an important takeaway, follows. The owners of Scott Fetzer attempted, just before Buffett purchased. An investment bank had been hired for this task and was going to receive a few even though Buffett hadn't used them A fellow from the investment bank said to "Well, we prepared this book in and since you're paying us a couple million dollars maybe you would like to have this book?" Charlie, with his usual tact said: "I'll pay you $2 million if you don't show me the book." In other words - make your own investment Especially not investment bankers who It's like asking the barber whether Speaking of Charlie Munger the 22nd most important deal is Associated Cotton Shops In 1966, Buffett, together with Charlie Munger and another guy named David Gottesman formed a company called Diversified Retailing. This was the first time that Buffett and and their friendship proved Charlie Munger has been the vice-chairman and he has had a great influence over Buffett and therefore over many Associated Cotton Shops (later renamed Associated Retail Stores) was a company of popular priced In 1967, Diversified Retailing bought which represented 11% of Buffett's net worth when you take his stake in Diversified into account. Based on the company's net income in 1968, Yes, 4! The results of the deal are not separately identifiable, but in 1979 Buffett mentioned that: "Ben Rosner, at Associated Retail Stores, - big rabbits from a small hat. Year after year, he produces very large My guess is that Buffett bought and because he liked But moreover, this investment highlights with a high return on assets. Buffett has said that the earnings on capital employed Number 21: Exxon This is an interesting one, as it qualifies as the shortest holding period for any investment on this list. Buffett, through Berkshire Hathaway, before the company had become It was already large at this time though, Buffett bought just short of a single percentage Buffett's wealth in mid-1984 was and as he now owned 46% of so the deal represented 12% Once again, the stock was fairly cheap, The shares in Exxon were sold again in 1985. Based on its stock price in 1985 I estimate that the return on was in the region of 30%. So, why did Buffett invest in Well, there's no information but part of the reason could be that Crude oil had dropped from about $38 If that was the case, Buffett as the prices dropped all the way Puh! A takeaway here is that even the legendary makes short term moves sometimes, instead of just sitting on a bunch of cash. Interestingly, Buffett made when he bought 0.9% of At this point, the price for Buuuut, Buffett's net worth had so the trade in 1984 was more Number 20: Kaiser Aluminum &amp; Chemical A typical industrial company well, you can probably tell by the name of it, appeared on Buffett's radar in 1977. Or possibly much earlier, but this was when Buffett made his By 1979 he had acquired approximately for an aggregated price of $20.6m and this represented some Buffett sold in 1981, and, assuming which was last listed in the result of this investment was a 35% return. Not too bad, but for a holding period of 3-4 years, it wasn't quite Buffett-standard. This company was priced just as silly as which I think is part of the reason why Buffett invested. After all, there was still a lot of who emphasized that tangible assets and current earnings are the most reliable measurements which investment decisions could be based on. Number 19: SAFECO Here comes a major jump in but it is nothing compared to Primarily in 1978, Buffett purchased a property and casualty insurance company. Shares were purchased through Berkshire Hathaway and another company that Buffett controlled which we'll talk about later. The investment represented The company had a really low P/E ratio, but it is important to know that earnings They fluctuate A LOT. One year there are few claims to be paid the next year just the opposite might be the case. Anyways, the company was sold in 1981 &amp; 1982 and the return on this particular investment was 50%. Buffett describes one of the reasons for being in SAFECO in his 1978 letter to Berkshire shareholders: "SAFECO probably is the best run large property and casualty insurance company in the United States." Sometimes it doesn't have to be The number 18 most important investment Warren Buffett has ever made is in Capital Cities-ABC First, some history about "On March 19, 1985, Capital Cities announced that which shocked the media industry, as ABC was some four times bigger than Capital Cities The deal was, at the time, the largest Buffett helped finance this deal through Berkshire, and, in exchange for $516m, Berkshire received about 18% of the shares Based on the 1986 earnings, this meant that and he was betting 17% of his net worth This may seem quite pricy if you compare it that you've seen in this video so far (but not if you compare it to Luckily, it turned out great anyways. 1/3 of the holding was sold in 1993 for $600m meaning that Buffett had already made Keeping that remaining part as in 1996, Disney acquired that meant that Berkshire would receive The total profit of this deal was thus Here are two reasons why I think that - It owned valuable properties, The company was in no way a net-net stock, but these properties could still be of what the whole company was selling for. - The company was managed by Tom Murphy, Tom Murphy and Dan Burke are they are precisely the sort of fellows A takeaway from this is that patience Buffett had known about he even owned the stock for a while in the late 70s. He knew it was a great company but he was simply waiting for the right price. He waited for approximately 10 years, which kind of makes me instantly that the market has been expensive for a while. Number 17: Burlington Northern Santa Fe, BNSF Here's a more recent investment. Between 2006-2010, primarily in 2010, Berkshire bought all of the outstanding shares in one of two of North America's largest BNSF is a HUGE company, almost large enough Berkshire paid a total of $33b for the company, which represented 18% of adjusting for his ownership in Berkshire. In acquiring the final 77.5% Buffett did something that he truly hates doing: &quot;Our blockbuster deal with BNSF required us that amounted to 6.1% of those Charlie and I enjoy issuing Berkshire stock about as much as we relish prepping for a colonoscopy." The reason is quite simple. Buffett does not like to pay 6.1% of the outstanding businesses which he already owns in Berkshire such as Coca Cola, GEICO, General Re, By issuing 6.1% of Berkshire stock, he loses 6.1% of his interest in these businesses. But him and Charlie thought With a net income of $2.1b in 2008 the P/E of the final purchase However, the earnings of the company and based on the earnings of $5.5b in 2019, the P/E would be brought down to 6. In BNSF I think Buffett saw an asset which: - Is tough to compete with - Is difficult to substitute; and - Will require more cash to be invested in a world where interest rates could be very low. Buffett's unwillingness to issue (with BNSF being an exception though) teaches us a valuable investing lesson: Oftentimes the best bet you can make is to Before continuing with the next deal, we shall have a quick look at that Buffett controlled in the 60s, 70s and 80s as this is important to understand In 1962 Buffett pooled multiple separate investment partnerships into a single larger one, BPL. He operated this partnership until 1970, when he thought he had run out of good and therefore, chose to disband it. In 1966 he formed Diversified Retailing together with previously mentioned Buffett later acquired personal stakes In 1962 he found Berkshire Hathaway which he, You see now that this is getting kind of complex, but then you don't know about which is Blue Chip Stamps. And yes, you guessed it. Both Buffett, BPL, Diversified AND Berkshire Hathaway owned shares in this company at some point. And then all of these investment vehicles It is no wonder that the SEC No legal actions were taken though, and in 1983 Buffett had untangled this financial knot Except for BPL which he terminated in 1970. I think that this is the reason why no one (that I know of at least) has tried to make a top list like this one Calculating Buffett's interest in a deal and Buffett simultaneously increased is an exercise which can get quite bothersome. And the next investment on our list Number 16: Pinkerton Pinkerton was (and still is) a service firm Back when Buffett bought this, Wall Street used to refer to this Pinkerton was the largest player Buffett purchased this company during the period 1976-1978. Simultaneously, he increased his The purchase price for a final 37% and Buffett's stake in this, including was 19% of his then net worth. In 1983 Pinkerton was purchased and Buffett's return on this deal amounted to There's an important takeaway from Buffett's which is that by owning multiple businesses Buffett didn't want control over but he sure wanted control over their capital. Here's an example: Say that you have $510,000 to invest, but you want more. Then you find company A, B and C. For simplicity, these companies are and as such, you can purchase 100% But you only need to own 51%, or sometimes So you purchase control of Then you use company A's cash to purchase and finally, you use company B's cash You've now turned your initial $510,000 Now this will only turn out to be profitable if a) you can deploy the $2m as profitable and b) if you can purchase more shares of A, B and C at later stages at valuations below their intrinsic value. I think there's no doubt that at least as in a 1974 Forbes interview, at the bottom of the then bear market, Buffett was asked: "How do you feel?" He answered: "Like an oversexed guy in a brothel. Now is the time to invest and get rich." A really important side-note by the way, is that Pinkerton was acquired by the Swedish Number 15: Coca-Cola Warren Buffett, through Berkshire Hathaway, purchased huge chunks of the world's back in 1988, 1989 and 1994 that summed up to $1.3b and This is one of the more expensive purchases Based on the net income of Coke in 1987, Berkshire bought at a P/E of 19 in 1988. In 1994 they owned 7.8% of the company. Since these purchases, Buffett has not acquired but Berkshire's ownership has thanks to share repurchases made by Coca-Cola. This investment is now worth $22b meaning almost a $21b profit. Not too shabby. Nonetheless, Warren Buffett sees Coke This Coca-Cola investment provides yet with which your Chairman responds to no matter how obscure or I believe I had my first Coca-Cola Of a certainty, it was in 1936 at the rate of six for 25 cents from to sell around the neighbourhood for 5 cents each. In this excursion into high-margin retailing, I duly observed the extraordinary and commercial possibilities of the product. I continued to note these qualities for the next During this period, however, I carefully instead allocating major portions of my net worth to street railway companies, windmill manufacturers, anthracite producers, textile businesses, Only in the summer of 1988 did my brain Of course, we should have started soon after Roberto and Don began running things. In fact, if I had been thinking straight I would have persuaded my grandfather and put all of the proceeds into Coca-Cola stock. I've learned my lesson: My response time to the next glaringly attractive idea will be slashed to well under 50 years. The list of why Buffett probably was interested - It had exceptional brand strength - It had major possibilities for expansion. Consumption in the rest of the world wasn't even close of what it was in the US when Buffett purchased. - It had great conditions for cost control, etc. Number 14. Salomon Brothers Salomon Brothers was an investment bank In his 1987 annual letter to Berkshire "We, of course, have no special insights regarding the direction or future profitability By their nature, the economics of this than those of most other industries Anyhow, in 1987 Berkshire purchased The preferred shares also had a possibility of being converted into Salomon common stocks. Later, in 1994 I think, he spent an additional Together, these two deals represented again, after taking into account The 20% ownership of Salomon was when Travelers Group acquired the company. When including the preferred the return of this investment was around 150%. I think the primary reason for why Buffett was because he liked 9% yearly dividends with an option to change into common shares at reasonable prices can turn out to be a very valuable investment, especially in a stock market (Remember - Buffett prefers bear markets) In fact, many managers at Salomon They thought that the deal But it didn't always look like it would be. In 1991 Warren Buffett had to step up as in an act to try to restore its reputation. A Salomon managing director named Paul Mozer using customer accounts, in order to receive larger portions of these securities than were legally possible in the biddings. At one point, Salomon was close to bankruptcy, but Buffett managed to save the sinking ship. A couple of years later, "Mozer is paying $30,000 and is Salomon's shareholders and I got sentenced to What's the lesson here? Stay within your circle of competence. Number 13. General Re General Re is a reinsurance business, which means that it is writing insurance This typically covers risks that otherwise could cause the individual insurance companies to go bankrupt, such as natural catastrophes. Berkshire bought this business in 1998 This deal was financed using Berkshire stock and diluted shareholders by issuing Thus, Buffett used 22% of his net worth in this deal. When looking at the P/E ratio of the deal, which was 23 based on 1997 earnings, It didn't seem very Buffett-like. But then one would miss an important It came with approximately $15b in float. It is time to quickly explain what float is and why it has been so important in Simply put, float is money an insurance company holds that isn't theirs, but which is theirs to invest. Every year insurance holders But this money isn't necessarily Think about it, when was the last time that Sometimes it takes years before claims are paid out. It is of course similar with reinsurance. It is actually common that claims plus over the lifetime of an insurance policy, which may seem odd. Are insurance companies in Noooo they aren't, and here's where Buffett and his Insurance premiums can be used as capital and so the success of an insurance - The cost at which float can be generated; and - The investment returns that the float produces Berkshire and Buffett have been but the results from this investment In his 2016 annual letter to Berkshire "... It was, nevertheless, a terrible mistake in buying General Re, an act that increased My error caused Berkshire shareholders (a practice that - despite - is far from blessed when Number 12: The Buffalo Evening News The Buffalo Evening News, or just "The News" Blue Chip paid 35.5m for this company, and after including later indirect though Buffett's increased this investment represented Based on its 1976 earnings, the company was purchased at a P/E of a whopping 50, and I think this requires Buffett has said that a market-dominant newspaper (back in the days at least) was the equivalent of owning The pricing power both towards readers The News, however, wasn't yet they competed with another newspaper The News was strong in Buffalo, There's no doubt in my mind that he was betting on that The Courier-Express And in 1982, after a bloody fight, it did. The News went straight from losing $1.2m pre-tax And remember, this was on Shortly after Blue Chip had it ran into all sorts of trouble. It was sued by the other paper and unions were striking simultaneously. Buffett can be quite tough sometimes, and he proved that during On a Monday they struck, and Buffett "If you come back in a day, If you come back in a year, And if you are smart enough to figure out that you can push us to and still come back you are smarter than I am. So go home and figure it out." They came back on Thursday. Number 11: General Foods General Foods was a huge player in It owned brands such as: JELL-O, Post Grape-Nuts, Birds Eye frozen peas, Kool-Aid, Oscar Mayer hot dogs, Log Cabin syrup, Ronzoni spaghetti, Cool Whip dessert topping, etc, and most of these were the number 1s within Buffett acquired shares of General Foods and managed to get a hold of 9% of which represented 25% of his Philip Morris acquired the company in Remember that the merger was the largest non-oil merger of Well, that only lasted 8 months. Although Tom Murphy might I don't think Buffett was one to complain. His Berkshire made $338m in this deal, and including a buyback in 1984, the return of the General Foods Buffett revealed a few reasons for this purchase in his 1985 letter to Berkshire shareholders: We thus benefited from four factors: a bargain purchase price, a business with fine underlying economics, an able management concentrating on and a buyer willing to pay full business value. While that last factor is the only one we consider identification of the first three to be the key to building value In selecting common stocks, we devote not to the possibility of attractive sales. A takeaway is that, owning even within smaller niches of businesses such as frozen vegetables or packaged desserts, can be very profitable. Okay so we've made it into the top 10! As you've come this far, For the YouTube algorithm, please pause the video now and write which Do that now please. Awesome. Alright! Number 10: Wesco Financial Wesco Financial's primary income came from a savings and loan subsidiary called Mutual Savings &amp; Loan. Its principal sources of income were and investments over the interests plus some associated service charges. Most of the business revolved around mortgages It also operated partly as an insurance agent. Larger purchases were made by Buffett's Blue Chip Stamps in 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1976 for a total of 80% of and then finally in 2011 the last 20% were As you may already suspect based on that, Based on the valuation of the company in 2011, those $31m that were spent to purchase 80% of In total, direct and indirect purchases of represented 26% of Warren Buffett's net worth. Once again, Buffett had found Or well, kind of at least. The insurance business was not important but the savings and loan business had But perhaps more importantly in this case, Buffett had once again found Louis Vincenti joined Wesco in 1955 and had quickly climbed the corporate ladder to become its CEO. In Buffett's 1979 letter to Berkshire shareholders as one of his "up-and-comers", Number 9 on this list wasn't just it is one of the top 3 most important holdings of It's National Indemnity Insurance. This investment deserves a little story. In the words of Buffett himself: Next month marks the fortieth anniversary of It was on March 9, 1967, that and its companion company, from Jack Ringwalt for $8.6 million. Jack was a long-time friend of mine and an excellent, but somewhat eccentric, businessman. For about ten minutes every year he would But those moods - perhaps brought on by a tiff - quickly vanished. In the mid-1960s, I asked investment banker Charlie Heider, a mutual friend of mine and Jack's, to alert me the next time Jack was "in heat." When Charlie's call came, We made a deal in a few minutes, with me waiving an audit, "due diligence" or anything else that would give We just shook hands, and that was that. So the company was bought in 1967 and it represented the first major diversification, away from its core textile The initial purchase was for $8.6m, with Buffett's share being at but as Buffett later increased his his indirect purchases in the company In 1966 the company had which is quite unusual in and the income after investments etc. That means a P/E of 5.4 but remember that this will fluctuate Anyways, this deal was the real start of and because of this, it had a huge Both directly and indirectly, this investment has earned many billions for Berkshire and its shareholders. National Indemnity had: - Underwriting profits - Jack Ringwalt; and - Float. In 1967 it was about $17m Not bad. Remember that General Re but the price-tag was a whopping $22b. There are so many important takeaways but an obvious one is that trust his own skill and intuition It may never come back again. Or ... well ... In the case of National Indemnity, Buffett would probably have had another 10-minute window of opportunity the following year. Number 8: Hochschild, Kohn &amp; Company This was the deal that formed together with Charlie Munger and Hochschild, Kohn &amp; Co was a department store Buffett, Munger &amp; Gottesman put up and then borrowed an additional at the prestigious Wall Street firms Buffett didn't really have the same clout in and these two fellows only agreed if they could do it under assumed names. So the total price of the deal was about and the department store earned which would give a P/E of 8.5. The result? Well, this is actually Buffett's worst The business was sold for Humility looks good on a billionaire, and Buffett is not afraid of "It must be noted that your required only 20 years to recognize how In the interim, I searched for &quot;bargains&quot; My punishment was an education in the economics of short-line farm implement manufacturers, third-place department stores, and New England textile manufacturers." A takeaway is that sometimes you must recognize or at least that they tuned out to be. Although I don't like preaching cut your losses short applies in Or as Charlie Munger puts it: Number 7: Illinois National Bank &amp; Trust This was an exceptionally run bank which Buffett purchased as Berkshire's second large investment. In 1969 he paid $18.9m for when earnings before security meaning a P/E of 9.5. We are now approaching the really big as this bank cost him a total of after accounting for indirect purchases through And it proved to be a quite Illinois National Bank &amp; Trust had to be due to the Bank Holding Buffett decided to sell the bank to Berkshire shareholders by giving them the shares of the bank and then repurchasing a certain amount Altogether, previous dividends and the sale but the return for Berkshire shareholders as they received shares in Illinois National Buffett was sad that Quote: "However, you should be aware that we do not expect replace the earning power represented by the bank You simply can't buy at the sort of price/earnings multiple Here's a quote that summarizes a good deal of "Eugene Abegg ran a bank in Rockford that, when banks - the best banks were he earned two percent on assets. And he did it with way less and lower loan losses and And there wasn't any magic about it. He just didn't do anything that A takeaway from this is that you should Both managers and the operations should This investment advice actually works Don't get a fixer-upper, get someone with a proven track record! Number 6: GEICO GEICO was the United States' with a market share of when Buffett first purchased shares During the period 1976-1980, he accumulated 33% of and the price tag was $47m. The ownership increased to 50% through share repurchases done by GEICO up until 1996, when Berkshire bought the second Yes, that's right. The first half cost him $47m And GEICO haven't stopped Today, it's the second largest auto with a market share of In 2019 Buffett explains that the underwriting has totaled $15.5b pre-tax and that I think it's fair to say that the company has been almost a 1,000-bagger for Buffett on his 1976-1980 purchases, which may make it his best And that was a good thing, because Buffett spent a total of 33% In 1976, this remarkable future (well, maybe it was to Warren Buffett) GEICO had been under reserving which resulted in them In 1976, claims piled up and GEICO Buffett's mentor Benjamin Graham had been but had recently retired. In an interview he said: "It makes me shudder to think of the amounts ... You have to be a genius The stock had fallen 97% But Buffett thought that the situation was and not something that the power of the brand or What did Buffett see in GEICO? - Well first and foremost - Secondly, it possessed an compared to other auto insurers It sold its insurance through direct essentially cutting out the middleman. This allowed its margins to be as long as it was pricing - Thirdly, it had just recently Jack Byrne, who had proven himself was determined to turn the ship around Side-note: Buffett has admitted that he had a whopping 65% As Buffett hadn't yet became the guru I won't include that investment on this list. In fact, I won't include any investment before Buffett had become a millionaire, which he did in 1962. Otherwise, the Cities Service Preferred that he purchased for $114 back in 1941 when he was only 11, would probably top this list, because in that instance, he was pretty much all in. Number 5: R. J. Reynolds Industries I find it exceptional that so little has been said about this colossal investment of Buffett's in the early 1980s. Reynolds was the United States' when Buffett first purchased it. It was quite diversified at the time though, and in 1979, 45% of revenues and 20% of profits Among other things, the company R. J. Reynolds was purchased through and Berkshire's share in the purchases (including its ownership in Blue Chip's) amounted to $270m. This represented some 34% of Reynolds was purchased at an insanely Although it hasn't been specified when I think it is fair to assume that it happened offering to repurchase 10m of If this is the case, that would bring which is a bit meh - for being Buffett. As I mentioned, Buffett hasn't exactly so therefore I can only speculate in why - It was a dominant player in its industry - It had the highest return on capital of - And the valuation was crazy-low By the way, I seriously don't know Remember what I said holding the title as the largest Well, turns out I was wrong, as in June 1985, R. J. Reynolds announced called Nabisco Brands for $4.9b. Number 4: American Express You may know what but do you know what it was when Buffett first purchased it? It was primarily a seller which kind of fulfilled the same and/or an ATM does today, You pre-paid American Express in and could then use it to get cash in It had also quite recently and actually did this to protect its business from Buffett purchased 5% of the company for his The cost was $13m, and that amounts to The investment had even for how much money Buffett to have in a single security - which was 40%. The holding was sold primarily in 1967 and although there's no official record it turned out pretty well. I estimate that the return was For a bet of this size, and for such a short The main reason why Buffett was interested was because it was a strong business franchise Buffett describes the strength in the business: "Anytime you can charge more for a product against well-entrenched, you have something very Same thing came about when Also, it had recently taken falling from $65 in November 1963 This was due to the infamous But Buffett realized that was nowhere near enough Also, by doing some which Philip Fisher had taught him, he realized that the primary kept using its products like Buffett purchased American Express and it represents one of Berkshire's Number 3: See's Candies See's Cadies was and is a candy business Buffett bought 99% of the company The total price was not $25m like many but $34.7m, as reported in Blue Chip But the first 67% of the business and there's an interesting "The family controlling See's wanted and Charlie rightly said But I didn't want to pay and wasn't all that enthusiastic (A price that was three times My misguided caution could have But, luckily, the sellers decided Calculating the % of Buffett's net worth which was invested in this business as there are so many indirect purchases through an increased ownership of Buffett owned only a 19% interest in Blue Chip but this later increased to 46%. Simultaneously, See's was because of its soaring But I estimate that the first purchases and the subsequent indirect which means 44% in total. See's was purchased at a PE of 17.5, It was a good thing that he listened as this business has delivered about $2.3b The importance of this Buffett has said that: "Just like Adam and Eve kick-started See's has given birth to multiple new Probably even more importantly, See's opened Buffett's eyes when he had for a long time before "It is better to own a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price." Finally it's time to cover an investment which Number 2: Blue Chip Stamps As you already know by now, Buffett, together with Charlie Munger, used Blue Chip as an investment vehicle Can you guess which characteristic it possessed That's right! Float. The trading stamps business When customers purchased they were handed stamps to With enough stamps, they could Retailers paid Blue Chip for the stamps and then Usually it took some time before and some customers totally forgot This meant that Blue Chip had large quantities while it waited for customers to redeem. In this way, the business In Buffett's own words: In 1970, indeed, about 60 billion of our stamps and taken to Blue Chip redemption stores. Our catalogue of rewards was 116 pages thick When I was told that even certain brothels I felt I had finally found a sure thing. There's a second part to that quote Buffett bought shares of Blue Chip for Diversified Retailing and so calculating a total purchasing Moreover, Blue Chip started that we've already talked like See's Candies, Wesco Financial, The Buffalo Evening News etc. But I estimate that the purchases attributable - stamps and float - had a price tag of approximately $26m After that, the sum of Blue Chip's than the market cap of the whole business according to my estimations, so I'll exclude those purchases here. Nonetheless, Buffett put 44% of his And the result? Well, now for the second part of that quote: Not quite. From the day Charlie and I stepped the business went straight downhill. By 1980, sales had fallen to $19.4 million. And, by 1990, sales were bumping No quitter, I redoubled my managerial efforts. Sales then fell another 98%. Last year, in Berkshire's all of $25,920 (no zeros omitted) Ever hopeful, Charlie and I soldier on. It would be totally unfair to say that this Through Blue Chip, Buffett managed to multiply such as the beforementioned three Without these neither Berkshire nor Buffett And now for the final one. The most important investment give me a drumroll please. Berkshire Hathaway. In the early 60s, Berkshire Hathaway was but it had valuable assets. Buffett started to purchase the company and originally planned to sell his holding In his 2014 annual letter to Buffett explained the situation like this: "On May 6, 1964, Berkshire Hathaway, sent a letter to its shareholders 225,000 shares of its stock I had expected the letter; Buffett had expected an offer as this was the deal that him and Instead of accepting the new bid and at a 1% lower price than initially agreed. Buffett got angry. Now, he was going to take so he kept buying shares. He later described this as a mistake: By April 1965, BPL owned 392,633 shares (out of 1,017,547 then outstanding) and at an early-May board meeting Through Seabury's and my childish behavior After all, what was an eighth of - he lost his job, and I found myself with in a terrible business about Eventually, 70% of the company In true Buffett and Munger "scrambling Buffett came up with a plan though. Berkshire could create as long as the company into new great businesses and This led to a series of purchases starting Buffett bought shares in for BPL and for Diversified Retailing Actually, the purchasing took but similarly to Blue Chip Stamps, the individual holdings of Berkshire than the total price of The price of the shares attributable to After some additional estimates this represented The earnings of Berkshire back in ranging from -$2.1m to $4.6m, so a P/E is not applicable here. However, the company was almost when Buffett took control in 1965, something which Buffett's mentor Also similarly to Blue Chip Stamps, Berkshire's core business In 1985, Buffett decided to shut down But let's do some calculations. Back in 1965, a single Berkshire Today, it costs more than $300,000. Even though you would have been if you would have owned this is approximately a 10,000-bagger. I'm not sure if there are any other stocks Please let me know in the comments Well, that's it. The top 25 most important investments that A few quick disclaimers Now, if you just can't get enough (or the Swedish Investor for that matter) here's a recommendation of Cheers guys and see you soon!