How does your brain process To you, there could be 6 triangles Or you could see it as a hexagon whose outer Both ways of seeing are Now, your brain is thinking: there's no hexagon at all! It's a cube! Suddenly your mind went from 2D mode to 3D even You understand that some the screen you're watching to represent the cube. Despite the intersections, you know The way we look at the world in 2D mode is But will humans be ever capable of For the sake of clarity, let's define a few terms. Topology. It's a branch of mathematics concerned object that are preserved For example: the number of holes No matter how much we stretch, twist, crumple, or bend it, it will always have one hole. Manifold. In simple terms, it's anything For example, one-dimensional circles; two-dimensional manifolds include topological versions of the plane, a disk, and an annulus, and closed surfaces such as a sphere, and a torus. Three-dimensional manifolds include a solid torus, or commonly a doughnut, and a tetrahedron. On the other hand, a boundary, for our For example, the boundary of this and the boundary of this annulus that define its shape. Applying topological transformations A sphere or a torus, on the other hand, doesn't Now, consider an open 2D manifold. It's easy to see it has two sides, one on the top and the other on the bottom. If an ant is on one side, it must cross Here's a riddle: Can you come up with a 2D That is, where an ant on the side without crossing a boundary? And is that even possible? Pause the video now if you want to think about it. A particular way to do this is to get a But before doing so, give the strip The resulting one-sided surface To prove its one-sidedness, notice that an ant crawling along one side of In other words, the top and bottom sides Zooming in, we can see the appear to run relatively parallel along And as we know, parallel lines never intersect. But taking a step back, we see that the strip Isn't that trippy? Another cool thing you can do to Mobius strips We have this notion that cutting in two separate parts of the thing we're cutting. But take a look at what happens when we try It doesn't split into two! But how? Keep in mind there is only Since the cut in the middle the strip doesn't cut into separate pieces. Another way to intuitively visualize this bend so the edges can meet, give a half-twist, and then finally join the opposite edges. If you think that's cool, consider cutting one-third along Cutting along it, we find it takes 2 trips around the Mobius strip for the Separating the parts, we get this. Now that's real trippy. But we can visualize this by first doing the cut, the twist, and then joining the edges. Now in a seemingly different direction, ever heard of the grandfather paradox? The grandfather paradox is usually of time travel. The idea is that if you were to travel before he had your mother, then it would be impossible So you wouldn't have been born to travel back in Thus, it's a paradox! And some people would assert logical inconsistency, time travel cannot exist. But, there's supposedly a And to do that, you guess it, we use a Mobius strip. Let's represent a timeline on Suppose, in 2021, you gain access to and you decide to travel back in time still a child--still for unknown murderous reasons. So now you're back in 1940, If your grandfather is dead as a kid in 1940, in 1970 your mother can't have been born, and in the year 2000 you can't have been born, so in 2021, there was no you to travel back Now here's where it's different. We just simply move past this If there's no you to travel then there's no one to kill so he would be alive to have your mother in 1970, and your mom is present to give And by 2021, you use a time machine grandfather, and the cycle repeats forever. Now we see that the whole surface of the Mobius And a nifty thing about using the like &quot;your mother is born&quot; are precisely on the locally In 2000, you were born and not born at the In 2021, you travel back in time and do In 1940, you kill your grandfather and not Each event and its opposite is happening at It looks much more of a paradox than Still, when you restrict your thinking along the logic behind the causes and effects seems It's become a causal loop. So the reason why you had to kill your grandfather You did that so you could live. Isn't that amazing? Let's take this to a higher level. Consider a sphere. Like a rectangle, it is a 2D manifold, but it is a closed surface Moreover, we can also take it that it has 2 sides: one on the outside and the other one you can't the inside. Here's another riddle: Can you think up a closed surface 2D can just walk freely to get to the inside And is that even possible? Pause the video now if you want to think about it. It sounds impossible. But is it? Well, yes and no. Yes, it is possible, but no, since But still, we can try to see what it Are you ready? This 2D manifold is called a Klein bottle. It is a closed surface with no boundary. If an ant were walking along its surface, and outside without ever encountering That's because, as mentioned, the are one and the same side despite Notice that there's a part where the Klein This is only a manifestation of Here's an analogy: At the beginning of the video, we saw a 3D cube. We understood how certain points have to Yet despite these apparent intersections, we and we can precisely apply the same idea here. In addition, realize that you are looking at a 2D image of a 3D representation of an object that can only be embedded in 4 dimensions. Trying to explain the 4th dimension is like There's no way to actually visualize it correctly. But we can try. So far, we've only talked about dimensions that are spatial, that is, But there's another dimension we can understand: the temporal dimension, also known as time. Imagine a 1-dimensional line named Linus trying How could he tell apart a disk from a triangle? Well, one way is for these 2D shapes to or in his case, his 'line of existence'. As a disk crosses this line, appearing as a single point that gets longer and longer until it gradually stops. Then gets shorter and shorter until it disappears. For the triangle, on the other hand, first, Linus would comprehend it that gets shorter and shorter until it disappears. Basically, we just cut these 2D shapes into lines TIME. Since Linus can only understand he needed the passage of time or for his lack of comprehension for a 2nd dimension. In other words, instead of space, he Next, imagine a 2D square named Squirrel trying How could she distinguish Well, she follows the same process. As the ball slowly crosses into she would grasp it, at first, turning into a disk that gets bigger and bigger until it gradually stops, then becomes smaller and smaller where it then disappears. On the other hand, as the tetrahedron crosses her plane of existence, she would comprehend it that gets smaller and smaller until it disappears. In the same manner as before, what we basically did was slice up these 3D objects into flat 2D one slice at a time. Do you see where this is going? Going back to the Mobius strip, it's a 2D manifold that can only be If we were to restrict it to two dimensions, basically to squash it flat it is clear this curve intersects itself right about here. If we lift some part of it into the 3rd dimension, it will no longer cross itself! It appears that adding an extra dimension When squirrel hangs around nearby, she can see the boundary of the Mobius strip one slice at a time. To her, points that supposedly intersect, that is, occupying the same space, now occupy different points in time. So she's able to understand that the even if its 2D representation does. Finally, we are ready to see the Klein bottle Like the Mobius strip, the Klein bottle is a 2D manifold but What you see here is only its 3D representation. And just like what we just saw, we can remove the apparent by lifting a part of it to the 4th dimension. And to visualize the 4th dimension, we cut up the Klein bottle to see one 3D slice at a time with the help of the passage of time.