Yes, I am a comedian even though I know I look like I was sent from the city to shut this down. (audience laughing) I know I have strong narc energy to me. I know that some kids grow up and want to be Batman. Not me. I was Commissioner Gordon the whole time. (audience laughing) Thank you, guys, for being here. This is a treat. My name is Dustin. I am 36. I'm not handling my 30s very well, because realizing 30s is not old, but it is almost old. (audience laughing) Like you're right there, you know? And some of you in your 30s, you're like, that's not true. I'm still young. Yeah. The first stage of grief, denial. (audience laughing) You'll come along. It's not-- You got a little young in you and a little old. You're in transition, you know? Like I still get excited about concerts, but I also get excited about Kohl's Cash. I'm in transition. You understand me? (audience laughing) And everything changes. You can get hurt doing anything in your 30s. Anything is dangerous. I play basketball once a week. I texted a friend my age, and I said, Hey. Are you going to be in this week? And he said, &quot;No. &quot;I threw out my back.&quot; And I said, How? And he said, &quot;Folding a sheet.&quot; (audience laughing) And I wasn't surprised. I was mad at him. Because we needed the numbers. I'm like, come on, man, you're 36. You know you can't be doing that by yourself anymore. (audience laughing) You free solo to sheet? Are you insane? (audience laughing) You need a spotter for that kind of action. Everything about health becomes much more challenging. That's what it is. And even in your goals change. Like in your 20s, you say things like, I want to look hot naked. (audience laughing) And in your 30s, you're like, I want to look pretty good dressed. (audience laughing) I'm not trying to get in good shape. I'm trying to get in a shape that nobody comments on. That's all. (audience laughing) It's hard. Like, I work out a lot. Ta-da. (audience laughing) This took a lot of effort. I'm disappointed too. (audience laughing) I asked my wife, I was like, Honey, I work out all the time. Does it even look like I work out? She goes, &quot;You know, it looks &quot;like you work out, &quot;but like also that you never miss &quot;a cheat day.&quot; All right. (audience laughing) That's accurate but hurtful. I had a friend, I asked him, like, hey, man. While all my gyms are closed. The pandemic, the gyms are closed. What do you recommend I do? And he texted me, he goes, &quot;you know what, &quot;for a guy like you--&quot; already insulting. (audience laughing) He's like, &quot;You can just do a lot &quot;of bodyweight exercises.&quot; That's so mean, when you think about it. Dude, you are so out of shape, if you just lifted your arm, that's all I need from you. And don't overdo it. If that's too much, use your other arm to do it. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) Bend at the knees, buddy. I think what it is is you kind of get turned off by like the people who get overly preachy about their diets. Because it's not one diet. We all know what dieting really is. Every day, we all have to make a choice. Am I going to eat healthy or am I going to be happy. (audience laughing) Those are the choices we make every day. That's all it is. Like cookies. Cookies make me so happy, I eat them till I'm sad. Does that make sense? (audience laughing) I asked that same friend who told me about the body weight exercising, Do you ever cheat? He goes, &quot;Yeah, I love cookies.&quot; Then I go, What's your favorite kind of cookie? He goes, &quot;Oatmeal raisin.&quot; (audience laughing) I said, Oatmeal raisin? Have you not had the other cookies before? (audience laughing) Oatmeal raisin, that's like a week away from being a granola bar. Like just leave that out. It'll turn. Chop it up, put in a bowl, that's potpourri now. That's what that is. (audience laughing) I was always very confused by potpourri's function as a child. I was raised by a single dad. All right. And I was raised redneck. I have seen my dad cry two times ever. And both those times involve the Daytona 500. So-- (audience laughing) --it was him in my house, and my uncle Butch. Whatever you just saw when I said uncle Butch, that's him right there. (audience laughing) Butch had one son. He named him Tater. This is my family. (audience laughing) And my dad would put the potpourri on the back of the toilet, and go like, &quot;it really helps &quot;with the smell in here.&quot; I'm like, it doesn't seem like it. (audience laughing) That's not potpourri's fault though. Nothing can fix the bathroom smell. Stop trying. Nothing. The spray? The spray does not fix the situation, it changes it. It's not better, it's different. (audience laughing) You argue, I'm like, Oh, it smells like poop in here. OK. Now it smells kind of like a citrusy poop in here. (audience laughing) Kind of like a fall breeze of feces. That's nice. (audience laughing) Oh, what's that scent? Downhill from a farm. Thank you. Thank you. (audience laughing) Thanks for picking that up. (audience laughing) You just get so turned off by people's preaching as they oversell their weird thing that they're into. And nobody, nobody is more guilty of this than the essential oils people. (audience laughing) You guys familiar with essential oils? Yeah. Some of you are twitching for your vials right now. Don't you dare. Don't you dare, mustache. I will baptize you with peppermint. Don't say a word. (audience laughing) Listen. If you're into it, I get it. It's fun to believe in magic. I get it. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) But it can't be everything. It can't fix everything. If you're not familiar, I'll fill you in. It's this small cult-- (audience laughing) --that thinks whatever your life problem is can be fixed by their magic gypsy oil. That's all. You just hear it in the pitch, and you're like, OK. So I just put this on my neck and so I'm clear. OK. That'll be good for my skin and my dog's anxiety? OK. (audience laughing) Oh, it's not supported anywhere the medical community? Perfect. (audience laughing) Oh, and it's a pyramid scheme? Keeps getting better. (audience laughing) I've tried it one time that someone recommended that I use it for sleep. And sleep is one of those things that changes as you get older. Like, I used to just go to sleep. (audience laughing) Now I have a relationship with sleep. (audience laughing) My body and brain cannot agree on bedtime. I can be barely able to stand tired and body's like, hey, brain. We should go to bed. And brain's like, Totally. Let's do it. And then as soon as you hit the pillow, brain's like, Oh, hey, real quick. (audience laughing) Here is everything that you're worried about. Here it is. Right here. You know, like, come on, brain, it's 1:00 in the morning. We can't do anything about that. Brain is like, I'm so sorry. That's my mistake. You know what instead? Here's some bad memories. Here you go. (audience laughing) Also a scene from the scariest movie you've ever seen. (audience laughing) Also you have to go pee again. Get up. (audience laughing) You don't actually have to go pee, it just feels like you have to go pee. (audience laughing) And then when you do sleep, you need it, so it's heavy, and groggy, and waking up is so hard. You know iPhone has the facial recognition? You ever wake up so ugly you can't open your iPhone? (audience laughing) Your phone is like, that cannot be you. That cannot be you. I am filled with the most sophisticated technology on the planet and I don't recognize whatever goblin got a hold of me last night. If that is you, I can't be seen with you. All right? You need to go to the Cricket Wireless and get a burner for the day. I can't-- (audience laughing) Got a snort. Boom. Right there. That's what we're aiming for. Get that on tape. (audience laughing) I think one of the hardest things about your 30s is now there's a first-- it's the first time in your life there's a real group of people that think you're old. If you're in your 20s, you have the audacity to think that I'm old. And you don't realize the sting of that, because in your 20s, the only group that thinks you're old are teenagers, and teenagers, we can all agree, not real people yet. (audience laughing) A teenager is not a human, that is a rough draft of a human. They are not done. I have a middle school son. I don't like anything about him. The face of a middle school boy, what is that? You look like a baby with a mustache. What? (audience laughing) I don't like dull gangly. I don't like it. It doesn't move with any natural fluidity to it. I don't like any of that. The smell. The smell. I'm like, I've never smelt this before. You smell sour. Who smells sour? You smell like behind an Applebee's. (audience laughing) I sighed looking at him. I said, I love you. I love you. I would do anything for you. I would die for you. I don't like the way I feel when you're near me. I don't. (audience laughing) I've never liked teens. And that's a bummer, because I used to be a youth pastor. Yeah. I know you guys know that from the second you saw me. I know I have strong youth pastor energy, you know? I look like I'd be good at leading a devotional and playing ping pong. And I am. (audience laughing) I'm really good at both of those things. That was then when I was at that job, that's when I realized that that's how the church youth got-- Your church youth group got invented because parents were like, this is God's problem. Like-- (audience laughing) --I'm outsourcing you Jesus. Do you understand what I'm saying? I'm going to have you baptized just for the shower. Just for the shower. (audience laughing) And I was bad at that job, because I don't like teenagers. So I just be like, I don't think you guys deserve the love of Jesus. I don't know. (audience laughing) I shouldn't be that much judgmental I was a teenager when I got married. I was 19 when I got married. I was 19. I was very mature, which wasn't very easy to believe, because this is the mature me, and I said fall breeze of feces five minutes ago, so. (audience laughing) I used to think it was hilarious to write on my wife's grocery list butt cream. (audience laughing) Because that was this hilarious imaginary thing. I made it up when I was 19. And now I'm in my 30s, and I still write butt cream, but not ironically. (audience laughing) I write butt cream and in parentheses, I put extra strength. (audience laughing) But I got married young because I fell for a girl way out of my league. And I don't mean that in like an overly complimentary way. Like when people see us together, they're like, huh. (audience laughing) Oh, I bet he's funny. I bet. (audience laughing) There's some personality there. We were getting jaded though, me and my wife. Not towards each other. Just towards marriage in general. I know we're getting jaded because the last wedding we went to, we were giggling during the vows. (audience laughing) We couldn't take it seriously. You know? Because that doesn't mean anything. That means nothing. Absolutely nothing. It means nothing at all. That is not a marriage, that is a wedding. Those are different things. A marriage is tomorrow, when they get to the airport and she goes, &quot;I forgot my passport.&quot; Now you're married. (audience laughing) That's the ceremony right there. (audience laughing) Today, till death do us part, tomorrow, I'm going to Mexico alone. You had one job. One Job. (audience laughing) We're starting to get real honest in marriage though. It's starting to get like, you know. I asked my wife if she was attracted to one of my friends. And this went poorly. (audience laughing) But not in the way I anticipated it going poorly. Actually I was like, Hey, my friend there, are you attracted to him? And she goes, &quot;You know, &quot;I'm not really attracted to guys &quot;based on the way they look.&quot; (audience laughing) I was like, that is the meanest thing. (audience laughing) That hurts so bad. I'd rather you tell me you fantasize about him every day. You just undid me on like a molecular level. (audience laughing) And don't get me wrong, I was always confused, but I thought you were into this. I thought this was your thing. But I know I'm very specific. I'm very niche. But I thought this is what you wanted. I thought you were, like, you know what I want in a guy is I want a guy who like looks like he reads comic books and is hard to push over. That's what I want. (audience laughing) I want him sturdy and nerdy. That's how I want him. (audience laughing) We're getting jaded. But we're also like-- I think we have a good, healthy, realistic idea of what marriage is. Like, to be people ask for advice a lot. That's a compliment. They go, Oh, how do I know this is the one? How do I know? But listen, if you really want to know who you're supposed to spend the rest of your life with, ignore everything positive about them. That does not help you. Look at the most annoying thing about a person. The thing that drives everybody else in their life crazy. And if you can stand that thing, then that's your soulmate. (audience laughing) That's how you know. Because you have to adore somebody and endure them. You need both of those things. (audience laughing) And that should be the stuff on dating apps. It should be like, I like to kayak, and she be like, I grind my teeth at night, FYI. (audience laughing) Oh you have a sleep apnea machine? Perfect. Perfect. (audience laughing) That will drown that out nicely. (audience laughing) There are tests along the way. Like, if you're in a relationship with somebody right now and they say expresso, and you don't want to murder them, then marry them right then and there. I do. There is no X in that word. You are uncultured and illiterate. You understand me? (audience laughing) That's how I know me and my wife are for each other, we can stand each other's things. My wife can't say the word salsa correctly. She says salza. (audience laughing) Like, may I have some chips and salza. (audience laughing) You feel that tension right there? (audience laughing) I've said it twice, you all hate her already. (audience laughing) That's actually a big part of it. People say, Oh, like, you need to love the same things. No. You need to hate the same things. Hate is so much more powerful than love, it's not even close. (audience laughing) It's not even close. Let your love grow through bitterness and spite, honestly. (audience laughing) Me and my wife have a couple friend in our life that everything they do, we hate. And that's why they're in our lives. (audience laughing) They are the single most important thing in our relationship. Because they do something annoying, and then we get together and talk crap about them, and then our love blossoms. (audience laughing) That's what they're there for. They're the young couple that always tries to, like, flex or, like, get on our level or try to impress us. &quot;You know, Dustin, every night we &quot;still fall asleep together cuddling.&quot; (audience laughing) I'm not impressed by that. You know why you cuddle early on in a relationship? Because you're still afraid they're going to leave. That's why. You're not cuddling, you're holding on. (audience laughing) That's not romance, that's a hostage situation. (audience laughing) They'd leave if they could. You know what a happy couple looks like in bed? Could you be further away? (audience laughing) Further away. I don't want to feel you. Further away. I don't want to know you're here. (audience laughing) Like, a happy couple invented the California King because the King bed didn't suffice. Further away. (audience laughing) Share a blanket? No, I don't want to share a blanket with you. I got my own farts to deal with over here. (audience laughing) I've spent the last half an hour carefully cocooning myself into a burrito of stench so they don't leak out to your side because I love you. (audience laughing) You got to have that on lockdown. You want that marriage as solid as you can when you start having kids. Because it's hard. Having kids is hard. And non parents, I can't with the questions. The questions drive me crazy. Dustin, you have three kids. What would you say is your parenting philosophy? Survival. What do you want me to say? (audience laughing) We do not negotiate with terrorists. That's it. Right there. (audience laughing) I will say it's nice when you start to have more kids, because you start to lighten up a little bit, you know. Because kids are like cell phones. Every two years, you love an upgrade. (audience laughing) New kid, new phone, same thing. Everybody's excited. They want to come over and hold it. You're like, be careful. It's new. Don't drop it. Don't drop it. (audience laughing) Two years later, two-year-old kid, two-year-old phone, same thing. Got a lot of smudges on it. It never responds to voice commands. (audience laughing) And you're looking at it like I'm thinking about dropping you on purpose. I am. (audience laughing) But you start to pick up-- The more kids you have, you start to have better perspective. Because when you have your first kid, you do all the stuff that's unnecessary. You don't realize it, but it's unnecessary. You know? You baby proof the whole house. You buy the best car seat. You feed them regularly. Unnecessarily. (audience laughing) Youngest kid-- You look at your youngest kid sometimes like, you'll find food. You will. (audience laughing) It's in the house. You know? Like, your scavenger instincts will kick in and you'll track it down. And if you don't, maybe it wasn't meant to be. I don't know. (audience laughing) You'll look at your youngest kid sometimes like, I don't have any pictures of you. How long have you been here? (audience laughing) You're like a rumor around here. Are you the youngest? That's amazing. They don't even know who you are. (audience laughing) You had to wear red just to get noticed. (audience laughing) That's hilarious. Are these your two older sisters? Or you and your mom? OK. It's all right. This will probably be on tape. Don't worry. (audience laughing) Don't worry millions of people will see this. No pressure. It always happens with the youngest. It's the only three? There's four. Oh. Well, there's one that they care even less about. (audience laughing) Feel good. You even left an empty chair for her. (audience laughing) We'll put our skittles where she was supposed to be. (audience laughing) That should make you feel a little better. (audience laughing) It changes though. It all changes. I get those fights with non-parents a lot. And you know why I get into a lot of fights with them, or with, like, dog parents, you know. I don't care if you have-- I just like seeing animals do what they're supposed to do. That's all. Like, I live near SeaWorld. All right? When orcas started eating trainers, I bought a season pass. (audience laughing) That's what they're supposed to do. We named them killer whales. All right? (audience laughing) Because sometimes when you're a dog parent, it gets a little off. You know? Like, I did a show with a dog parent. I knew we weren't going to get along from the start. Because I'm backstage going through my notes, and she was on her own. She was backstage open mouth kissing her dog. That's the right response. Thank you. (audience laughing) And she looks at me like I'm the freak in the room. She sees me all grimacing and comes, she's like, &quot;well, you have kids, &quot;right?&quot; I go, Yeah. And she goes, &quot;Well, can your kids &quot;even do this?&quot; I said, Sit on my lap and make out with me? (audience laughing) Legally, no. (audience laughing) And this is when the crazy starts to unravel when they start talking to the dog. All right? She says, &quot;Ignore that big, bad man. &quot;What do you want for dinner tonight, &quot;honey? &quot;Chicken or fish? &quot;Chicken or fish? &quot;Chicken or fish?&quot; And then she looks at me and she says, &quot;you know what, sir? &quot;I believe in all animals. &quot;All animals should be treated &quot;equally if not better than people.&quot; I go, Really? All animals? All animals? What about chicken and fish? (audience laughing) I feel like I'm seeing some inconsistencies here. This is why you need to stay in your lane and don't judge other people. Because she got defensive, and she got mean, and I came right back at her. She said, &quot;Well, you just need &quot;to know that those little kids &quot;of yours, those little kids, &quot;they could never fill your heart &quot;in the way my dog does.&quot; That's so mean. I was like, whatever. Maybe that's true. But you just need to know your dog is going to die way before my kids. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) And you might have to kill it. So-- (audience laughing) I think what it is in that moment is the lack of empathy towards a parent. Especially modern parents. Like, there are new things that were not there before with new challenges. The phone. The phone has changed everything. We finally had to cave in and give my son a phone, because a lot of time he would text me from my wife's phone, but I didn't always know who I was hearing from. So a while back, I hit the road, and me and my wife get into a big fight right before I leave. And the next text I get from her, Sweetheart-- She's listed as Sweetheart in my phone. --says, I'm sleeping at Pete's house tonight. (audience laughing) Oh, I'm sorry. What's that? (audience laughing) I respond like, who in the world is Pete? And it says, don't worry, his dad's home. What's happening right now? (audience laughing) So be sympathetic. And discipline has changed a lot too. Discipline has changed. Some people spank, some people don't. If you do spank, don't act like you're doing something other than what you're doing. People say this a lot. They go, we discipline-- That's code for hitting. We discipline-- (audience laughing) --but we never discipline in anger. (audience laughing) What? What do you, discipline in apathy? (audience laughing) No. We don't hit our kids when we're mad. Are you crazy? (audience laughing) That's why you hit a kid. Because you're mad. (audience laughing) And you know what? That's the right emotion to match the action. You want to ruin a child? Spank them with a smile on your face. Do that. (audience laughing) It hurts me more than it hurts you. (audience laughing) You just created a monster back there. (audience laughing) It's not all bad. There are moments though. There are absolute moments. I love going to my kids games. The only thing more satisfying than watching your kids at sports are watching the kids that are there against their will. (audience laughing) If you have not had the chance to watch a child be forced into youth sports participation, what a gift. (audience laughing) I love it so much. There's a kid in my son's basketball team named TJ. TJ does not sit on the bench, TJ lays on the bench. (audience laughing) And whenever they call his number, it's a big dramatic scene. He flops into the ground, rolls at center court, flips off his parents. I love TJ. (audience laughing) I can't get enough of this kid. Every time they put him in the game, I'm like, Yeah. (audience laughing) TJ. TJ. TJ. I have a foam finger. It's just the middle finger. I love TJ. (audience laughing) Because he's a wild card. I don't know what he's going to do. I've seen a million kids make or miss a basket, I have seen one kid bite a ref. (audience laughing) That's worth getting up for on a Saturday morning. (audience laughing) At the end of last season, they tried to have the viral YouTube moment, where the kid who's not very good, gets his first basket of the season. All right? And this is the moment that I realized we were actually all pawns in TJ's game. (audience laughing) Because they put him in, and everybody knows what's happening. The game on the other side of the court stops. Everybody gets their phones out. They put him in. Everybody's cheering. The defense clears. They've thrown the ball just like out of a Disney movie. He catches it, 5, 4, 3-- This psychopath-- (audience laughing) --does not shoot the basketball. He licks the basketball, and then kicks it into the stands. (audience laughing) This is the best moment of my life. (audience laughing) Because then he turns and looks at us like that scene from Gladiator, like, Are you not entertained? (audience laughing) Is this not why you're here? I was like, this is why I'm here, TJ. (audience laughing) My kid's not even playing today, so. (audience laughing) But it's not all good. There are hard moments. Of course, there's hard moments. You know what you forget, is you forget kids can be mean. And they can be mean in very vulnerable moments. I get really carsick. The last time that I got car sick in front of my kids, not only were they not supportive, they were mocking me. (audience laughing) They were doing impersonations of me puking as I was still actively puking. (audience laughing) Just in the back of the car, &quot;I'm Dad. (throwing up sounds) (audience laughing) &quot;Is he crying? &quot;What a loser. &quot; (throwing up sounds) (audience laughing) I don't know how to handle that situation. I just go instinct and go, Look at me! You look me in the eyes! You need to know that of everyone in this family, your mom is the only one that I picked. (audience laughing) But I can feel that split the room a little bit. (audience laughing) Because some of you are offended, and the rest you are like, I need to write that down. That is amazing. (audience laughing) You guys are so much fun. I've been Dustin Nickerson. Thank you so much. (audience cheering)