What's wrong, miss? Hurry up. I 'm sorry . Why is my wallet missing ? Don't hold it in the way. Come on, girl. Don't worry. I'm sorry. What's going on? I'm sorry . We still have to go through the formalities. Don't be stuck there, okay? I'm sorry. What should I do? Don't waste your time here. I have to find it. Sorry, please step aside. I don't have time to board the plane now. Hello , do you need any help? My wallet is missing. All the documents and money are in it. Is it okay? If you are a Chinese citizen , can you provide your ID number ? Don't worry. We will verify your citizenship information. If it is correct, we will assist you with the immigration procedures. Please come with me. Thank you. Could you please help? Well , how many times have I told you that you have neither a boarding pass nor an identity document ? We really can't hand over your luggage to you. I won't just take other people's luggage. There is something very important in my luggage . Please give it to me, please. This is our policy. Please understand . Please contact your family and see if there are any other valid documents that can prove your identity. I 'm sorry , I'm busy with other things. I 'm sorry, please call. The user cannot be connected at the moment. Please call again later. Thank you. My good boy, you have to learn from me when you grow up. This big brother is handsome and helpful. He is so good . I will call you later. Mr. Hu. Is it okay? It's okay . Let 's go over there, Miss. When can your family and friends come? Our working hours are about to end. Hello , sorry , we are late. Hello , hello. I am lawyer Wang Zhongshi. This is Mr. Hu Qianyu, the president of Hengsheng Group. We have made a special trip to prove that Lin This is Miss Ling's identity. This is Miss Lin's identity certificate. Please check if it is valid. This is valid. Come with me to pick up your luggage. Okay, Mr. Hu, I will pick up Miss Lin's luggage. Please wait. Come here and ask for your luggage. What important things are in it that I have to come and pick up in person? Miss Lin, this is your luggage. Please check if it is intact. Miss Lin , Mr. Hu has something to say to you. Thank you. Why did you come back secretly ? Brother, don't call me brother. We are actually not related by blood. Most people call me Mr. Hu. Mr. Hu. I have been away from home for too long. It has been 5 years since I went to the United States when I was 18. I am very lonely outside. I miss you so much. I miss home , right? Do you just want to go home or have you watched the news? The report wants to come back and grab your shares. I tell you, if you want to take advantage of Hengsheng, you won't get a penny. I'm not here for Hengsheng. I don't care about the shares at all. I just want to go home and take a look. You misunderstood me. If you want to go home and take a look , go back after reading it. There is a check and a ticket. On the check, you can fill in any price you want. The other one is a direct flight to New York in 3 hours. Let's go. I got more than staying. What happened to you? Why did you become like this? Five years ago, you said you would go to the airport to find me, but why didn't you come? Five years later, I came back, but why did you drive me away? I answered the question. You will leave . That's right. I just don't want you to come back. I just don't want to see you. Are you satisfied with this answer? Uncle Chen will turn around right away. Let's go to the airport to send Miss Lin back. Okay , is this your truth? Okay, I understand. But no matter what you do, Said that I will not leave Master Parking Master Parking Lin Weiling Lin Weiling Lin Weiling Mr. Hu 's press conference in Hong Kong is about to start. If I don't leave, it will be too late. Wei Ling is indeed my best best friend. I will do it as soon as I come back. Come and give me a kiss . By the way , doesn't your school have its graduation ceremony in two months? Why did you come back early and didn't tell me? I went to the mountainous area to teach for a month. Fortunately, I'm back today . Otherwise, what will you do today ? Yao Yao, didn't you just go to Gansu to help build a nursing home? Why did you go to the mountainous area to support teaching again? You all know that I like to do charity. Besides, I am the public relations manager of Hengsheng. Building the company's image is part of the job, don't talk about me . You haven't answered me yet. Why did you come back early without saying hello ? Is it because of the equity? You know I don't care about equity at all. Aunt Xin and my dad grew up together and they founded Hengsheng together as brothers and sisters. My dad passed away. After Hengsheng, Aunt Xin has been taking care of Aunt Xin's management company. It's a matter of course. I've just been away from home for too long, so I'll come back early after graduation . Are you ready to stay in China in the future ? Do you have any plans? I haven't told Aunt Xin, not yet . Will he have any objections ? It's okay. I came back just to give him a surprise. What I said is that Aunt Xin raised you from childhood. You two are as close as mother and daughter. What can mother and daughter have? The overnight feud is almost here, come on , Yaoyao, what's wrong? Didn't I just say I wanted to give them a surprise? I can just go in by myself. Just wait for me here . Okay, then I'll wait for you. Go ahead and get busy. Feed you. good Aunt Mei, I am zero. Why is it you? What's the matter with you? I want to find Aunt Xin . Aunt Xin is not at home. Hu Dong is not at home. Didn't I tell you? Nothing happens. Don't call home. Hu Dong, what did you say about Lin? Zero called home again. How many times have I told him since I sent him away five years ago ? It's okay. Don't call home. You said this person is so shameless and so irritating. Dr. Hu is drinking tea. Dr. Hu, what's wrong with you? It seems like you are watching. Arrive at Lin Weiling . Where is Lin Weiling ? Isn't she in the United States? It's impossible. I'm going to have a look. I don't care what others think. I just want a home when I come back. Oh, I'm back so soon. It turns out that Xinyi is not at home. I'm afraid of home. Isn't there any surprise if the servant sees me first ? Hey, Dad , I know, I know you miss me , then I'll go back right away, go back , go back, go back, go back, go back and stay with you . I'll see you later . It's Uncle Yao . He must miss you very much. Come back quickly. Then you What should I do ? Why don't you come home with me and I'll stay with you ? You don't have to accompany me anymore. Just open a hotel for me. I happen to have friends I want to see in the evening. In some cases, there are friends who want to see a female right after I come back. What are you talking about ? Forget it . I'll let you go today. Hurry up and get in the car and go back to find Yao's father. Chairman Lin Weiling is Director Hu who entered the well this morning. I looked outside and saw no one. You must have read it wrong. Lin Weiling is back. It's been a long time. Uncle, aren't you in England? Why are you here? Isn't it because of your father, Zhang Huonian ? Uncle Zhang , he knows that we grew up together and played the love card. He asked me to take out an insurance policy for Chen. We have already won the lawsuit . How are you going to repay me? I have sacrificed so much for you and my son. His surname is Zhang and my surname is Hu. We have nothing to do with each other . No matter what your surname is, you are biological father and son. The blood is thicker than water . Why are you so heartless? I think he came to me partly for work , and partly because he wanted to know something about you from me. This should be concern, okay . I understand. I'll be right back. I have something urgent and I need to go back to Shenzhen first. After you have dealt with the matter in Hong Kong. Come to Shenzhen and find a job with me. It's up to you. If you don't want these, can you replace me with a beautiful woman? Supervisor Sister Xin, don't worry. I've carefully checked Qianyu's apartment inside and out. There's not even a woman's hair on that pillow. I 've smelled it all, and there's not even a hint of femininity. Don't worry, Li Weiling promised not to hide here. You thought everyone would hide people at home just like you thought . Mr. Hu, you said that Lin Weiling came back from the United States without saying a word . Do you have some bad intentions? You said he fell in love with Qian Yu five years ago. Will the old love rekindle when the two of us meet this time? Whether the old love will rekindle or not depends on what I do next. Even if their old love rekindles. After receiving the letter, you hummed and I doused them too. Qian Yu is back. Mom, Aunt Mei, have you worked hard today? Aunt Mei brought you a lot of delicious food, all your favorites. Thank you, Aunt Mei, sit down quickly . Lin Weiling is back. You know , but I am You already told him to leave. You already knew he was coming back . I only found out today that he called me at the airport and asked me to help him prove his identity. You two had better not get too close. You made a promise to me 5 years ago. You should still remember it, of course, mom. But when he comes back this time , I think the person you need to worry about is not me , but the dishonest people in the company. What do you mean? Qiu Zhixing, the company's opposition, has been looking for opportunities to go against our mother and son. Now, Lin Weilin is back. I believe they will use Lin Weilin's identity to cause some trouble. The company's 30th anniversary celebration is coming soon. Nothing can really happen during this time. Mom, don't worry. I sit in the position of CEO and I won't let it go easily. I can rest assured that you know what I'm doing . You must be very tired from today's press conference. Let's go back first. Have a good rest, right? Miss, we won't let you stay. The main reason is that you don't have documents. You use other people's ID cards in your room. It's illegal to register. We can't afford the consequences. Sorry , I just came back from a plane. I lost my ID card and wallet on the plane. Don't worry, I'll get a replacement tomorrow. But I really have no place to go today. Please let me stay for one night, okay, Miss, it's useless no matter what you say, please don't make things difficult for us. I'm sorry, the user you dialed is not in the service area. You can't go anywhere without your ID card . Boss, I beg you, just stay for one night. Good evening, please. Oh, okay, okay, don't disturb my business. Come on, let's go. Hey, the boss , Lin Weiling, was driven away again in a small hotel. Now it's your turn to make investments. Okay, I know what you are doing. Well, let me go, where are you taking me? Hu Qingyu, why are you dragging me here? Let me go, don't you want to come home and have a look? I'll take you here to see where you can see the entire Shenzhen night, his tranquility, his His tranquility, his beauty , but what is hidden under this tenderness ? Do you still remember how you looked when you first lived on the streets? You may always live on the streets. The problems you have to face when you stay will only be more complicated than today. Even if you are in Hang Seng, The daughter of the founder will be no different. The new will has come out. You have nothing here. Hang Seng will never be your land, let alone your roots. Go ahead and go to school. If you want to study in the future, just study. If you don't want to study, just do something you are interested in. Never come back here, leave here, leave Hang Seng. I said I am not for Hang Seng. I don't want equity . I just want this home when I come back. I also said that all I want is you. of leaving Everything is beautiful and I have a wish. You will be there wherever I am. Do you know that I only remember the words &quot;Don't worry, you still have me&quot; , so I am willing not to look for another substitute. Forgive me for your incomprehension. Forgiveness remains the same as before. This is my other kind of determination. Forgiveness is not a compromise. Forgiveness is to commemorate the time we had each other. I just want to forgive . Forgive your misunderstanding. Imagine the past. Forgiveness is not a compromise. Everything about love. Haven't you given up? Didn't I make it very clear yesterday? I suffered a lot when I was in the United States. There were many times when I felt that I couldn't hold on anymore. But it was not Hengsheng who supported me , but I knew that I still had time in Shenzhen. A home has a heart that makes me feel like my mother, and you. As long as I think of these , I feel that no matter how much hardship I endure, I can grit my teeth and persevere. Home is what I try my best to protect. You can say you don't love me , but you can't deny my love for you. If you say I have no roots here , then I will take root here. Let 's all calm down and be calm, okay? Mr. Lin's will has been passed the legal appraisal and it can't be. The fake Chairman Hu has the right to inherit Mr. Lin's shares in Hengsheng. Hu Xin is now the actual largest shareholder of Hengsheng. Do you have any objections ? Yes, we have to believe in the law. Is this will true ? Let's not talk about it. Just treat it as true . No matter what you say, Lin Weiling is also Chairman Lin's only daughter. This Hengsheng was founded by President Lin. Now that Lin Weiling is back, we can't take her away. Let's drive him back. We have to find a position for him in Hengsheng , so that people won't say that we Hengsheng people have left Chaliang , and they will also describe us as ruthless people. Mr. Qiu is right. You can't do this. Let me tell you. Why ca n't such a big company accommodate a little girl? Let's see what kind of position we can arrange for him. What do you think, Mr. Hu ? Since everyone has opinions, I believe you all have certain considerations in your own hearts . But I I think we should respect the opinions of the parties involved, so as not to end up doing bad things with good intentions, don't you think ? It's not unreasonable , hahaha, it makes sense, it makes sense, it's factual, right ? Today's board of directors is really lively, Qiu Zhixin and the others What do you think? When a dog in the village barks, all the dogs will bark too. The more we try to stop them, the more proud they become . They think we are afraid of them. Why don't we just sit aside and see what tricks they can do ? When you are tired and can't eat meat , you will naturally shut up. So what's going on with Lin Wenling? Haven't they always wanted Lin Weilin to enter Hengsheng? How about we just be generous and give him a chance to come for the interview ? Secondly, it can make Lin Weilin retreat when he is faced with difficulties. If he can't even survive, he will naturally know to stay. It's not that easy. If he leaves, he doesn't want to leave, no matter how far you drive him away. He will run back even if he is far away , but if he wants to leave , even if you lock him up, he will find a way to escape. You did a good job. Obviously Aunt Hu Xin doesn't want to see you. Why did you lie to me that she is not at home and has no money and no money? If I hadn't called you and told you what to do, it would have made you worried . Okay , I will definitely reflect on myself and try to improve in the future to make up for my mistakes. It's almost time to go . I'll take you to Hi, where will the rubber band take me? You probably haven't been there for a long time. Have you ever been to a bar? Have you ever been to a nightclub after being abroad for so long? I'm studying and working abroad. Let me tell you. There were a lot of handsome guys in the bar we went to. I didn't have enough air pressure. I took a look. My car had a flat tire. Hello , repair company? Can you send someone over now? My car has a flat tire. It takes 3 hours . Can you send someone over now? I can pay extra. Hey, hey. Do you have a jack in the car? What kind of jack ? I don't know. Go and have a look in the trunk. Okay , beauty, is there something wrong ? Do you need help? Yes, get in the car. The car broke down. Can you help me? No problem. What are you doing? Beauty , do you need help? No, I'll see you next time. OK, I hope to see you again. Goodbye, beauty , isn't it? You actually know how to do this. I worked in an auto repair shop when I was in school in the United States. Pass me the team. Thank you. You are really an angel sent by God to save me. Qing Yi refuses to see you. What are you going to do? I haven't done it yet. Think about it, I want to stay in Hengsheng first , and then find a chance to explain it to him. No matter what decision you make, sister, I will support you unconditionally. If you want to stay in Hengsheng, I will hand your resume to the human resources department tomorrow . I want to rely on my own efforts to stay in Hang Seng. I have ambitions. Well, when you need my help, call me at any time. I need your help now. Hurry up. 123 Let's go. How do you know I'm here? You should trust me for you now. You know everything about the action, right? The smell of cigarette smoke means that you are having an impromptu time. Who stopped me this morning and said that I must stay and protect the most important thing? Is this your protection? If you really want to put down roots, I will. Can I be generous and give you a chance? Hengsheng's annual recruitment will start tomorrow. If you are really capable, don't mention your father's name and come to the interview to see if you can get the final screen recording. Is it true? Of course, your tobacco and alcohol The smell is so heavy. I took a shower . I went to the press conference as soon as I got off the plane. It went well. Mom , okay, I have to go to work. Take care, Mom. Bye . Is this yours? Thank you. This succulent plant likes moisture and shade. People who are afraid of cold and heat and hate growing flowers. Do you know these plants ? Do you want me to help you ? No, thank you. You also work in Hengzhou, no, I'm here for an interview. There is a lot of knowledge about how to get along with plants and people. We need to keep an appropriate distance , not too far, not too close, not too cold, not too hot, and need to be given sufficient sunlight and moisture. I know how to do it. I remember that today's second round of interviews was really like going through a battle . I heard that the chief technology officer, Li Muchen, will also come for the interview . If I am selected by him, I can directly enter the core department. God bless, come on , I 'm really nervous. Group 3, No. 220, No. 243, No. 258, I am No. 265, No. 266. I invite you in. Please accept the assessment in order . Ms. Lin, you are a top student who graduated from Stanford University. With your academic qualifications, you can definitely work in Looking for a good job on Wall Street , so I want to ask you why you chose Hengsheng. First of all, the core business of Hengsheng Group is now mainly concentrated in high-tech industries. I think the changes in the world in the future will definitely be brought about by a brand-new technological reform. I hope I You can invest your youth in a job that is extremely exciting. Secondly, the management of Hengsheng is young, promising and energetic , which represents a culture of Hengsheng. There are many outstanding young people like me in Hengsheng. I am very I look forward to working with them to create our own future. I remember that when he was in school, his test scores were very good. He was either first in the department or second in the department. He is indeed my school girl and brings glory to his alma mater. Since you are in the same school as him, then Maybe it 's best for you to handle this matter. This is the information from his internship on Wall Street. Hey , don't you really have to do it so harshly? His special status is very likely to be used by the opposition, so we should do it. The only thing is to let him retreat before my mother takes action, so that he will face more troubles. If you want me to die, I have to die. I went to resign. Miss Lin 's performance just now was excellent. Really? Then do you think I can pass today? Go back and wait patiently for the interview . I believe you will receive the notification within 5 working days. Thank you all interviewers. On behalf of Hengsheng Group, I would like to apologize to everyone. The Hengsheng 30th anniversary celebration is coming soon. In order to welcome the celebration, our Human Resources Department has just collected I received news that this interview will be temporarily canceled. Please tell me the specific time. Please go back quickly. How could it be canceled suddenly? Why is it canceled? When will there be news? This is not yet confirmed. If there is news, I will inform everyone immediately . Thank you. Please forgive me. This is really unlucky . Why am I so unlucky? I obviously performed well today. It doesn't matter . There will still be opportunities. Didn't this recruitment activity get the approval of the board of directors? How could there be such a change? Mr. Li, Chairman Hu, just issued it. I'm not sure what the specific situation of the order is . Thank you. You're welcome. You just can't be trustworthy. What's wrong with Ms. Lin ? I really don't know why this situation happened suddenly. In fact, I personally appreciate your work ability. Maybe it's a bit presumptuous , but I have several friends who also work in front-line companies. If you are interested, I can help you submit your resume. Thank you for your kindness. But I still want to stay in Hang Seng. I want to go back and wait to see what new changes there are . Thank you . Yaoyao, hello Ling, I'm sorry. I went out in the morning and had something urgent to do , so I didn't go over to see you. How about the interview ? Is there any good news? Let's celebrate. I just received a notice saying that all recruitment matters have been suspended in preparation for the Hengsheng celebration. I still don't know when the notice will be announced. Why is this happening? Welling, don't be sad. I'll help you think of a way . Just wait for me at the gate. I don't want to leave. I'll come over and find you later . Hey, Yaoyaoyao, Mr. Li, hey, I'll listen. Hello, Mr. Li, Mr. Li. Hey, this should be my British souvenir. After I got off the plane, I went directly to Hong Kong and I didn't have time to give it to you. Every time, it's like this. My office is about to turn into a botanical garden. Who is calling it? My mother likes you so much. She said that you must not have time to visit her because you are busy with work, so she used this pot of flowers to take care of you instead of her. She takes care of me and I should take care of her. How about uncle and auntie? Are they okay? Yes, they are fine. Every morning after I wake up, I graze the cows with the farm workers and then walk around to see how they really live an idyllic life . They really enjoy life better than us. By the way, let's talk about business, foreign technology companies. I have already inspected the other party. They are very active in scientific research and have a very rigorous attitude , so I want to fund their development work on digital technology . Well, I will leave the good technology to you. Suddenly, I received a notice from the chairman saying that all recruitment Work has stopped. Why didn't there be such a sign before ? Your tone sounds very regretful. Is there any other candidate? In fact, there is a girl named Lin Weiling. She graduated from the Department of Economics of Stanford University. She has a good background and is also a very good person. It's a pity that this notification is indeed a bit sudden. I can only wait until next time when nothing happens. Then I will ask Technical Officer Li to do his best to recruit talents for Hang Seng. Senior Lin Weiling and Wang, why are you here? Please come with me. This flower must be Mu. It was given by Chen. I wonder when I will be lucky enough to receive the flowers planted by Mu Chen. Everyone knows that Manager Yao of the public relations department is the goddess recognized by Hengsheng. I don't know how many people admire me secretly. I would like to send you flowers. I don't know how many men will scold me if I say that. Mu Chen even makes excuses for rejecting people so that it makes people happy. Hua doesn't need to send food. We can always eat together. Let's eat together later. Hua doesn't have the guts to send food , let alone eat. Okay , you guys, let 's talk first. I'm going to work first . Oh, by the way, when raising this potted flower, it needs to be neither hot nor cold, sunlight, and moisture, just like getting along with people. I'll come see him again after a while. All the male idols of Hengsheng have turned into flower gods. They are so good at talking. Did you understand what he just said? Senior, why are you here at Hengsheng for an interview? How could I come over for an interview ? Now I'm interviewing others and it's almost the same . Didn't we have the same tutor back then and both were number one in our respective grades ? Thinking of people with different fates , I already worked at Hengsheng a year ago. Now I am the assistant to the president. If you want to hold an ordinary position in Hengsheng, you have no hope. Do you still remember this? This is the information from your internship on Wall Street. It clearly records that you were involved in one of the commercial cases. You were almost expelled from school because of this matter. You know what the consequences will be for a financial practitioner to publish this information . You will carry the consequences of what you committed for the rest of your life. That mistake will no longer be able to gain a foothold in the financial world. What do you mean by this? You were obviously with me at the time and knew what was going on. The responsibility is not on me at all. Of course I know it , but others don't know. Who made you the leader of the team back then for protection? Other students have taken all the responsibility on themselves, but do you think that for a completely ignorant person, will they believe your explanation or the information and the case judgment in my hand? Did Hu Qianyu ask you to do this? What do you want to do? Our tutor has always liked you. You also know that he is very old now. It is a pity that no student can inherit his academic legacy. I have contacted him and said that you will continue to study for his master's degree . You don't have to worry about things like that. Mr. Hu will be responsible for all the expenses. You don't have to work as hard as when you were in college. You also know what I mean by doing this. Let's go , leave Hengsheng and return to the United States. Mr. Hu, hello. Mr. Hu, um, where are you? What's wrong? Who are you looking for? No, I have something to come to the office. Just wait for me here. I'll come down right away . Mr. Wang, thank you for your kindness. I'll go and talk to the tutor. I'm afraid I've let him down again. I won't leave. Hengsheng will not leave China. Please tell Mr. Hu. If he wants to use this business case to threaten me, I'm sorry, I won't agree. Please rest assured. Hey Yaoyao Yaoyao . I'm still in Hengsheng. What are we doing together ? It's too embarrassing to eat together. I didn't expect that by such a coincidence, Wei Lin came to interview Qian Yu. You shouldn't mind if we all eat together. Look at what nonsense I said. You two are already a family. Of course you won't mind. You should meet Wei Lin. It's a surprise. Of course it's a surprise. It's surprise and joy. Wang Tezhu should have gotten off work now. If you have other things, don't bother staying with us here. Hum, there is no holiday at work for me. The boss orders you to show up at any time, accompany you unconditionally, and execute it boss without any conditions. Now where should we go? Let's go to the Oct Art District. There's a nice bar there. Let's go to Welling. I've already told them that we must celebrate today to welcome you back to China. Wait a minute. Yes, I will take Qianyu to drink and wait until he is almost done drinking. I will tell him that I want you to stay in Hengsheng. You have to remember to cooperate with me later . Does this work? Yaoyao, haven't you heard a word of wine ? It's easy for a strong person to take off his makeup. After drinking, it's easiest to tell the truth and make requests. Wait a minute for the two of you to open your hearts and have a good chat. We are all a family. You can't refuse your request, right ? Now Hengshang has announced that it will suspend all recruitment plans, so you have to play the emotional card. Don't worry, rely on me. How come every cup is so charming? Do I want to choose you , choose you, or choose you? Oh , no wonder people say that choice is a pain. Okay , thank you boss. I want all of these. I don't want to brag about this. Let's try it . Isn't it bought for me? Girls all like to drink sweet drinks. So Wang Teshu, you also have a drink. Well , then I will just take it as you are praising me for being handsome and handsome , but also possessing the qualities of a woman who is gentle and patient. Qianyu, I really don't understand why Shinichi doesn't let Wei Lin come back. When I was studying abroad, Don't let Wei Lin come back. Now that she has graduated and won't let her go home, why should Wei Lin suffer outside? Xinyi wants to train my independence. And many of my classmates have never been around during college. This is called training. I Why don't you see my dad training me like this? Besides, there must be a time limit for training. You have graduated now. Why not let you enter Hengsheng? Moreover, Uncle Lin is the founder of Hengsheng. It is natural for you to stay in Hengsheng. Qianyu Wei Lin grew up with you and is like your sister. You should help him and let him go back to work at Hengsheng Bar. Let's go back to the company and talk about today. Happy l. We are here to relax. Yaoyao, I want to rely on my own ability. Of course, you have to rely on your own ability to enter Hengsheng , but your ability must be recognized by others. Qianyu, do you think Wei Lin has the ability to stay in Hengsheng? Well , Wei Lin's level is obvious to all of us. I am his senior, and his strength is I know best that this time when Wei Lin returns to China, I am very happy to come. Let me toast you. I don't drink . Wei Lin never drinks. You still say that you are his senior and you don't even know this? Uh, this is my fault. I am not enough. I know Wei Lin, you two are really good friends and sisters. Come on, let me toast you. Oh, Manager Yao, I will toast you again. Get in the car and get in the car. How many times have I told you that my name is not Manager Yao? I like to be called by my name. I, Yao, Yao, Yao, cheers. Yaoyao drank too much. Please help me take her back. Thank you for leaving so fast. What are you afraid of ? But when you come out, I should send you back. Cheers , drink with Yaoyao. Where do you want to take me? The two of them have already been sent home. You can either send me to the hotel or let me send you back to the United States right now. What I want to tell you, Shu Wei has already said this afternoon. After all, we are staying in a hotel. If it's not too comfortable, please go back to the United States as soon as possible. Huo Qianyu, why are you treating me like this ? Have you forgotten our previous relationship? Is it considered a relationship at that time? If so , it's just a brother's feelings for his sister . Hahaha, Mr. Chen, Mr. Chen , it's been a long time. Long time no see . Long time no see . Hahaha. Where are you looking here recently ? Hello, Mr. Hu. Hello, Mr. Hu. Hello, Mr. Hu. I heard that the daughter of the founder of Hengsheng Group has returned to China , but was repeatedly rejected when interviewing with Hengsheng. Is this true? Is this related to the newly exposed will ? Is it intentional by the senior management of Hengsheng? Thank you, Mr. Hu, for begging you. This is too cruel. This is really pulling the fire under the cauldron. Hahahaha. That's what I want to do in front of you today. Let's embarrass them in a big scene. Let's see how they end up . Hahahahaha. Thank you very much for your concern for Hengsheng. Thank you for coming. First of all, I want to tell you that Ms. Lin Weiling has indeed returned to China. She has indeed come to our Hengsheng for an interview. As for whether there will be admissions, it has not yet been decided. We will tell you as soon as the admission results come out. Today is our press conference for the 30th anniversary of Hengsheng. I hope you can focus on our press conference . Thank you for your support to Hengsheng. Next , Ms. Yaoyao, the public relations manager of Hengsheng, will host today's press conference for us. Thank you to the media friends present. In order to welcome the 30th anniversary celebration of Hengsheng Group, we will plan to hold some activities including charity donation and art performances. Historical review and new product release. Today, in order to kick off the celebration, we will hold a charity donation ceremony on site. Then let us invite Chairman Hu Xin with warm applause to donate to us and cut the ribbon. Thank you, Mr. Hu, Mr. Hu . You just didn't answer my question directly. Since the interview has ended , the results should have been obtained. Do you think that the results are not convenient to announce, so you deliberately delayed it? In addition, the 30th anniversary celebration of Hengsheng is about to be held. Is it a show to report on charity with such a big fanfare ? If the senior management of Hengsheng really has a philanthropic heart , why can't they tolerate the daughter of the founder of the company? Please answer my question directly, Chairman Hu . Why can't they tolerate the daughter of the founder? Please answer it directly. Chairman Hu, please answer me directly. Answer my question head-on . Please answer it, Chairman Hu. Yes, please tell me. We have been waiting for so long. Do you want me to answer this question for Chairman Hu? Hengsheng's charity activities are never just for show. He has the ability to speak well in one sentence. The stronger you are, the greater your responsibility. As a listed company, Hengsheng has never forgotten its responsibilities to society. This is because we, Hengsheng, have been organizing charity activities non-stop for so many years . This time, we chose to celebrate the 30th anniversary. The purpose of making this behavior public is to call on more friends to join our charity activities and to let all Hengsheng employees remember his gratitude to the society. Mr. Hu, can you explain the matter about Miss Lin ? Mr. Hu. Can you explain it? Mr. Hu, can you explain that Miss Lin Weilin has indeed completed the interview process of our company ? Since there is an interview , of course there will be a result. Since everyone is so concerned, then we will tell everyone openly and honestly that we have decided not to hire Lin Weilin. Can you? Can you tell me the reason? Yes, please tell me. Ms. Lin Weilin's professionalism is indeed very good. However, there is evidence that she is involved in a commercial crime case in the United States. For financial practitioners, this will affect his career. So after After careful consideration, we decided not to hire Ms. Lin. Thank you Mr. Hu for your answer. Is it so easy for Qiudong to let him pass? Don't worry, the fun is still to come. How can you look over there? Miss Lin, Miss Lin, Miss Lin, Miss Lin , what do you want to say ? Miss Lin, Miss Lin , please tell us, Miss Lin, Miss Lin, now that you have arrived at the scene , I would like to ask you what do you think of what Mr. Hu just said ? Yes, please tell us, Miss Lin, Miss Lin, take a look. Miss Lin, Miss Lin, Miss Lin, Xinyi are all because I am young and ignorant. I should not fall in love with my brother. I will listen to you from now on. Please forgive me. The money in the card is enough for you to study in the United States . You don't need anything . By the way, please go away. I never want to see you again. Thank you for your concern. This business case did exist. At that time, due to the inexperience of the intern team, such a mistake occurred. As the team leader at the time, I should indeed be responsible for this matter. However, From the perspective of Hengsheng, Chairman Hu is one of the founders of Hengsheng. After so many years of verification, he has proven his excellent working ability. He is in charge of Hengsheng and deserves it . Personally speaking, Chairman Hu has taken care of me since I was born. I regard you as my own. I have no intention of getting involved in today's share dispute in Hengsheng. I hope everyone will continue to support Chairman Hu and Hengsheng's management . Hey , why did he leave ? It's okay. He just left. Hum. I thought you asked him to come over and we were going to have a good show today, but I didn't expect him to speak for Hu Xin. I'll clean it up and eat more. Actually , I think your performance today is really good. You are much more mature than before. Thank you, Mom , for these information. I have always stayed by my side without announcing my actions to the outside world, so that one day I can deal with these opponents. But I never expected that the media would not let go of this matter. They also investigated everything that happened back then. They also believed that it was a commercial crime. The incident was not Lin Weilin's fault. He said he was very responsible and responsible. He also said we were inhumane. It's quite difficult for a listed company in Novo to not even have room for the founder's daughter. Now our super region has just started to go public and the stock is rising sharply. If more negative news spreads at this time, I'm afraid it will be affected. How is Qiu Zhixin doing in the stock market ? Qiu Zhixin is now uniting with the opposition to put pressure on us , and the public opinion is going in our direction. I'm afraid it will be difficult for me to resist in the days to come. OK , since he insists on this matter, we are ruthless. If we can't even tolerate the original founder's daughter , then we'll just go with the flow and allow her to return to the company and find an unimportant idle position for him to do and keep him.