[Music] 51 millimeters Hello, everybody! I am Tom from Tom's take a look at the DeLonghi Delica. I'm hoping most of the things that we're talking about but also to other small DeLonghi machines. We're as well as some common questions. At let's just get right on into it. This right I'm talking about here really applies also Now, the first question that people How do you pull another shot after having you can see that the lights are both still this milk right here. So, we can't pull which is right over there, or the thermal and then it's going to put some cold water It will stop automatically, as you see, and you are good to go. Okay, let's move on to the thermoblock made out of? Is it aluminum or steel?&quot; is a stainless steel line. That's what gets through the stainless steel tube. So, you don't stainless steel, which is where the water The third question that people ask many and is that proper?&quot; First, no, it's not to nine bar. And no, that is just a marketing This system does not get up to 15 bar, and So, I've got this manometer. What we're and then we're going to see what is the maximum Okay, so you see, the system maxes out in this and that is also not the pressure that you're here, we've completely closed the system. However, is what creates the pressure. So, in that Something else that people &quot;What are the sizes of things?&quot; What size tamper is this? In what size basket? whether that's Delica or the ECP 3420 or the Okay, just a couple more quick bangers about I would say a minimum of once every two to three do it every month. Try to use soft water As far as size goes, a good-sized pitcher to use with this machine Let's move on to the interesting part: recommended than it is out of the box? The very first thing like this one. This one right here is from as well. This is a cheap basket, and it works pucks knock out perfectly. But the issue is that to bow out a little bit. So, if you want to get there's an Italian company called IMS, and IMS IMS basket that I'm using right now. This is a my DeLonghi machines. These baskets are a little but they are excellent. They also make for the DeLonghi 51-millimeter brew, and it's that's pretty much the same as the other basket, the fit is tighter on the Hue as it is on the they both make excellent extractions, and really the two most important aftermarket The reason that I like bottomless immediate optical feedback about what's going I using fresh enough beans? Is there any But before we move on, let's talk about one and there is something here on the bottom that plate or the shower screen, and we do also have you'll see that on the stock OEM model, it's whereas on the IMS model, we've got groups of holes that have been punched out. So, it probably This is also quite nice to use. Whether or not one shower screen or the other, that's think that my palate is refined enough to notice a and it certainly is a higher quality, you can consider this. I'm going to put using here in the description down below if So far, please give it a like and if you like videos like this one, Alright, the next thing that we need is a proper and you need a tamping surface. As far as doing also really nice so that you don't make such a cheap little aluminum funnel that I've got. There your liking. They all serve the same purpose, just the basket and not all over your countertop. have gained a lot of traction on YouTube and, I few years. And what this does is it just helps got a grinder that grinds clumpy or if you've got, this nicely so that the density of the grounds is Before I go any further, the last thing one that measures to one-tenth of a gram. This is plus has a rechargeable battery with USB-C on the that's pretty convenient, and I think it Let's talk for a minute about dose. Here, we've and here on the left, we've got when we talk about dose, we need to fit in this was made for between 14 and 16 grams. You'll 14 and a half. You can sometimes fit Now, as for the single, that's going to be closer the single. The reason that that matters is in the double, if you try to make a single in because you just have way too much space there basket. It's going to fill with too much water, Now, when it comes to choosing, do I want depend on your personal situation. If you want to or if you don't want that much caffeine, because it is much easier, much more forgiving Alright, the next thing we're going to we've got a five-dollar cheap basket, a generic And the IMS basket has got the 16 and a half the same grind setting here on the DF 83 and with Alright, this is the fancy and we're gonna try to aim for 33 foreign grams 20 grams And 33 grams in 28 seconds. Alright, just for They're about three months off of the roast date, pretty good shot because they're high-quality With the cheap basket, see, the Because of the two, we have the funnel doesn't want to fit in there which is a little bit too bad. It's also going to Now, let's try this one out. Okay, here we are, tamped out as well, and we're [Music] Again, this is the cheap basket. 10 grams. 20 grams. And 33 grams right there, 26 seconds. Just a able to tamp all the way deep enough [Music] 10 grams, 10 grams. 20 grams, 20 grams. And let's make a cappuccino. Alright, let's go into steam mode and this little jug here, this 400 halfway. That's about 150-200 milliliters, And now we can start steaming. Now, the have your machine modded or not. First, at the top of the milk, off to the side you want to be in one quadrant because All right, so there you can see I'm injecting wand placed off to the side so that the milk it's going counterclockwise, and that's and then you can actually put the tip incorporated better. Once it gets too hot to Now, we're going to pour our espresso in. It helps to also swirl the espresso to break There we go, got a little All right, there you go, a beautiful All right, guys, so today we've talked about We've talked about nice accessories that you do with 51-millimeter group heads. And now, questions? I'd be happy to answer them. Just I hope that you guys liked this video and that and check out my other videos. If you like totally free. Until next time, I say happy coffee