If you think you understand the Earth's weather, is changeable; its temperature, its rain, its with so little rhyme or reason that not even to show how vastly complicated the systems are many cycles at play, it can seem impossible to behave in the ways that they do on any given day. many voices that argue for or against humanity's seem vehemently opposed to the idea that climate. Others treat it as an absolute If you'll forgive my pun, it's time to to atmospheric wind patterns, the influence within the Earth's fiery core; we're going I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. we're going to unravel exactly why the weather is our climate is shaped the most by something we Let's start with some big picture thinking. If we need to start by thinking about ...what causes the seasons that we are familiar to this question, but as it will provide the reviewing. Besides, this question is not entirely the planet, you may not actually get any seasons. as a result of our planet's tilt - because our the Sun, one hemisphere will point towards the Sun will point away. Naturally, hemispheres that are pointing away from the Sun makes them colder, This effect becomes stronger the higher up the small Norwegian town of Tromso. Because of "more" towards the Sun - the tilt of the Earth sets for a few months in Summer, and never this produces quite the seasonal variance. equator you get. There, the tilt of the which sunlight strikes the ground, and as such the It's all just a question angles. Is allowing its rays to be at their most where the same number of rays are smeared over answer to that question can make a big difference arctic is so much colder than the equator. the Earth isn't static? Nor is it orbit that influences how warm or cold we are. with, of the Earth orbiting the Sun in a nice this model, we circle the Sun because of the Sun's the Sun is not the only source of gravity Many of the planets pull and tug at us. which has a mass 318 times the size of times. And we, in turn, pull on them. As planets this constant pulling and releasing creates simple circle. This interplay of increasing and our angle of tilt, our orbit, and even the these variables have stabilised into cycles. These geophysicist and astronomer Milutin Milankovic in The first such cycle I want to look at is the a 100,000 year period, the Earth's orbit around Naturally, if our orbit is closer to that of relatively consistent, and we get about the same our orbit becomes elliptical, there are parts of colder, and parts where we're closer and warmer. orbit - or the bit where we're closest to while the aphelion - or the bit where we're I'm recording this in the UK, which means for this is quite nice. Although we are in the phase is more circular than it is elliptical, the amount of sunlight we receive in January means that my Northern hemisphere's Winters In the Southern hemisphere, the reverse is during this warmer phase, their Summers And that's just at this stage of the 100,000 year more elliptical, that 7% sunlight difference You might think this seems overall a The Northern hemisphere benefits from this cycle makes the Southern hemisphere's seasons cycle is at play to bring things full circle. the Earth's tilt is consistent as it orbits. the angle the Earth's axis is rotating along a circle on the sky above it, in a cycle that while our axis is currently pointing at the no longer be the case. Over time, it will circling back to point at Polaris again. 13,000 years, the Northern hemisphere while the Southern hemisphere will be the one experiencing a more profound seasonal variation. they go away after a few months. This is that create winters that last for thousands of Milankovitch cycles that help cause ice ages. and go. There are numerous theories. However, spans of ice ages line up extremely well For instance, there is a cycle whereby the plane and falls over the course of 100,000 years. not obviously explain why it is that the Earth the Earth is still the same distance from the the time periods Ice ages were occurring at over there must be a connection. Perhaps cosmic dust some sunlight when we are at one inclination, This could go some way towards explaining the Whatever the case, there is at least one of Ice ages on Earth, and this might perhaps tilt of the Earth's rotation. I already mentioned but it also changes the angle at which it it alternates between 22.1 degrees and 24.5 and is declining. You might think that this is a less extreme our seasonal temperature variations Surely that is a good thing for avoiding ice ages. its own devices, this lessening tilt would lead cooling of the planet that would hit its peak Winter that causes this spread, but strangely You see, when winters occur, snow builds up at In warm Summers this snow tends to melt away. sticks around, becoming a more permanent feature reflective, which means that light has a tendency This means that if the Earth is covered with actively becomes even colder, thus creating one sense of the word, this is a snowball effect. is a brief moment of warmth that lasts interspersing a deeper, more general cold we would actually be in an ice age right now, and ice age - just one we're not fully noticing. If it mankind would have experienced ice across the Milankovitch cycles, that brief period of warmth Of course, this is under the assumption that influence global temperatures. And while broad upticks every 41,000 are indeed demonstrable the location and orientation of our planet methane levels in the atmosphere are also driving And if we are not careful, just as ice can build can happen in the same way, but in reverse. Less things overall warmer, which leads to less ice. factor in action, we are in for a cold future. currently are mostly working to stabilise relatively even temperature zone. However, temperatures - hot and cold - more extreme. Milankovitch cycles are in it for the long haul. It might not be coming for a long time. But Life on Earth is full of cyclical the changing of the seasons and the ebb and happen over relatively short periods and cycles affect our planet over larger intervals Cycles play a role in the occurrence of but given the vast timeline, it's unlikely our there is one climate cycle that definitely will better known as El Nino and La Nina. While El their impacts are felt nearly everywhere on Earth, getting more common. In the last few decades, flooding, drought, famine and mass-die offs of caused an estimated 16% of the world's coral reefs event that persists to this day. The ENSO is what are El Nino and La Nina? Why are they In our second stop on our tour of If you think the name El Nino sounds more like you're onto something. During the 17th warmer water and poor fishing that would "El Nino de la Navidad," which means "The Boy of until the late 19th and early 20th centuries seemingly disconnected regional events scattered found that these weren't regional occurrences, but El Nino Southern Oscillation. The ENSO fluctuates cycle can take anywhere between 2 and 7 years. but they've been around for much longer than that. occurs, let's first look at what happens in Winds blow along the equator from east to Effect, caused by the Earth's rotation. Here's a circulate north to south, from the high-pressure equator. As it happens, air does circulate off equator. In a circumferential band that extends sometimes known as the horse latitudes, air in and air in the Southern Hemisphere deflects to the called the trade winds. It turns out they're not 18th Century. As the trade winds blow westerly from coastal South America toward Asia. And as to replace it, a phenomenon called upwelling. phytoplankton, which, in turn, support ecosystems as you can imagine, a shock to this system If this is what normal conditions look like a disruption of "normal." During El Nino, warm water that would be flowing toward Asia resulting in less upwelling cold water. This, in East in the Pacific. With less upwelling, the fish The Pacific Jet Stream that crosses North America result, the northern United States and Canada tend and parts of the Coastal South America become months from April to October, and during more regions can be catastrophic. In the severe El Nino collapsing bridges and burying entire shantytowns a quarter of a million people were displaced is normally arid, received an unbelievable Outside the Americas, El Nino sets off a series of worldwide. The increased rainfall in South period of draught in South Asia and Australia. a delay in Australia's monsoon season can lead to expanses of grassland, Australia's bushfires are are already concerns about an event that could worried, given recent warming trends. You may bushfires wrought nightmarishly apocalyptic scenes crisp. Australia is a literal tinderbox over which local officials are wise to prepare for the worst. during El Nino rises .1 degree Celsius. But not rather mild - something to keep in mind before lasts from 9 to 12 months, but on rare occasions a pretty complex system responding to a number understood as relative to what the baseline would La Nina is the opposite side of the El Nino then La Nina is a cool one (although some regions El Nino occurs when the equatorial trade winds become even stronger. Think of El Nino as a The trade winds blow even more warm water from in more upwelling of cold, nutrient-rich this can produce a feeding frenzy. And if you cold-water species, like salmon, will venture ordinarily survive. (The same is also true Meanwhile in Asia, the influx of warm equatorial the drought experienced during El Nino In North America, the Jet Stream is pushed Southwestern United States and rains in exacerbated a megadrought in the Southwest United look at this image of Lake Mead, where the Hoover "bathtub ring," ordinarily covered by water. Jet Streams, you might be wondering how depending on where you live, the news is either more severe Hurricane season during La Nina, greater atmospheric instability in the Southern fewer hurricanes - a sign of how drastically don't get too complacent, Pacific dwellers. Meanwhile, in Pacific Coastal South Christmastime waters that once prompted fishermen a reason that fishermen once called "La Nina" the weather in Peru and Chile turns colder of drought. Brazil's North, on the other hand, February, and the lowlands of Bolivia can receive in La Nina years are basically the reverse tends to experience drier than average conditions, So, where are we now in the ENSO cycle? and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, has this based on measuring the difference in surface Pacific - a metric known as the Oceanic Nino index was just 1.7degC above average, making this a and India was already warning its citizens of For me, this is an excellent example of how and foster human survival - not just on this Because one of the fascinating aspects of the Earth's complex climate systems. Understanding the be crucial if we ever want to settle on other undertake the huge task of terraforming Mars, an exoplanet in some other part of the Milky our ability to understand the various inputs and systems and biospheres. That day may seem far If one thing El Nino shows us, it's that the winds flow over the course of years. However, El Nino is video you appreciated my Game of Thrones reference this is a reference that keeps on giving. Night King in the north are trapped behind a out that on Earth there exists a powerful, icy its bounds and rush southward. That powerful one that allows the nations to the South to just like in the TV-show, that wall eventually and threatens the lives of all those in its way. Where is this wall? And what is the icy winter question is a name that I find particularly that the Polar Vortex it protects us from What is the Polar Vortex? And how does the Polar cycle, it's time to take a closer look at the I was a little misleading earlier when I talked polar vortexes: one at each pole of the planet. a tropospheric polar vortex, spinning in troposphere, from ground level up to about 10 of the atmosphere resides. Above that lies the weather phenomenon that has its own size, climate. Each of these massive cyclones sits over with wind speeds that can reach up to 240 km/h. the puzzle is temperature difference. At is most concentrated, the air is warmed and starts pressure beneath it that draws air into it from Meanwhile, at places like the poles where it's zones of high pressure where air molecules want to released into an open field. So naturally, tendency for air to rush from the poles towards trying to escape from the North and South Poles. as wind does not travel in one continuous line air from the equator cools and falls much sooner from the poles warms and rises much sooner than of air on each hemisphere that air circulates in. and the Hadley cells (the air masses above the I described. However, the middle cell - known as a gear, it is dragged by the rotation of the other In terms of our northern polar vortex, this means it's met by warmer wind travelling in the opposite temperatures meet, they clash rather than mix. clashing against winds coming in from all sides. its own, the cold air from the North would just not really being trapped at all. There is a spinning them into a vortex that keeps them the equator. Where does this spin come from? In a simple, flat world, cold wind from the poles from the equator would float over it towards sheet - it's a rotating sphere. You are travelling a pole (and decided to watch an Astrum video while from the west to the east. You might not notice average travelling at the same speed, in the same from the equator to the pole? Conservation of eastward at the same speed as previously, but quite so fast. Remember, at the pole, you'd have slowly. If you keep all your eastward momentum suddenly it will appear compared to everything In practice, this means that air that travels up the north pole or the south) will not go straight towards the east. This rapidly eastward-travelling There are at least 4 of these, straddling the gaps Polar cells. The Subtropical Jet stream lies but the jet streams we are interested in are the that develops in the North and South poles. almost continuous path, a little underneath stratosphere. They are only a few kilometres and in their hearts, the wind can travel at 400 into strength level of hurricanes. The jet Its powerful winds overrule the polar winds them along with it and dragging the entire polar At this point a keen-eyed observer might have of momentum means that air going from the equator it that air travelling from the pole towards has zero momentum, moving to zones that have it should be quickly left behind, This is true, but cold winds have much more slide underneath the warm front, and then it down enough that the countervailing jet this tension at play, though, as it becomes The Polar Night Jet is the Jetstream that bounds it bounds the stratospheric polar vortex, of the year for the North - the polar the sun is absent from the sky entirely, creating this colder climate creates a deeper pressure air further south, which actually strengthens the that during the coldest part of the year, this this does not always hold true. There There are certain zones, such as the boundary mountain, that can cause disruption to wind. that can suck in jetstreams, while mountains other weather phenomenon such as El Nino, can have Jetstream is not fixed down, but is a balancing hitting such obstacles causes it to deviate it will rock back and forth like a string that balance, overcorrects itself, and is no longer in massive planetary waves that cause the polar travel in a straight line. And these oscillations The first sign of this comes in the most common in late winter. An SSW can even the polar region by as much as 50degC over the the system of the Jetstream can be so thrown westerly winds overpowering the Jetstream, No longer contained, arctic wind moves south and faster south to attempt to balance the gradient. it pivots. It massively reorients itself, Europe and America - usually safely on the warm, find themselves in the domain of the polar You may not have realised, but one of these 2024. It was a significant reversal, too - direction, it was labelled one of the top 6 by a stroke of luck, the Polar Night Jet did not reversal, meaning we did not see the freezing arctic home. Instead, the winds sucked up a causing spike in ozone above the North Pole; has already gone back to normal, only flowing in in all, it could have been a lot worse. devastating. With sufficient preparation, or try to avoid going outside for the month or as you're ready for cold, it's not the end of the In the UK in 2009-2010, the Big Freeze saw parts the coldest in nearly 40 years, with event closures, and power failures. Sadly, this the 2019 January-February north American Cold of the country, with similar outcomes. Some take into account windchill factor from the You could get frostbite from being outside in with hundreds more needing frostbite treatment. In time, the imbalances in the global temperatures its previous position. However, it's worth noting the north 6 times every decade. If you live see many more of these events over the course as powerful as these two examples. In the South, 2 instances in recorded history of the Southern as the Northern one. It has happened, though, and It's difficult to say, as global temperatures on the Jetstreams. Some evidence indicates that year on year, although this is apparently There is some more evidence that the If so, we should be grateful. Although unpleasant, only a passing weather phenomenon. We see Jetstream were to go, the polar vortex would come what it is like to live in arctic conditions. I've discovered that the winds of our planet are effects that tug and pull on each other, finding in rhythms and patterns. And yet, it does on that we simply do not see, down here on the I've learned its importance. The Polar Night Jet of protection, a wall against the frozen wind. It of the world around us - how much is going on Milankovitch cycles and cycles in our wind can of the Earth. But they are not the only patterns this planet. For our fourth Earth cycle, let's now gravitational push-and-pull between planets and lies in the beating heart of magma beneath the lies deep within our planet, that runs out its And when those reversals come, the results are safe. And that can be a big problem. but the time will come when the North and will need to be ready for the upheaval When you think about the North pole, you certainly don't expect it to change places wrong. Our magnetic compasses would all point Birds would probably be horribly confused. out of science fiction, geomagnetic reversals And the process behind it might be a To be clear, it's not the reversals themselves During those times, the Earth's magnetic field - from deadly solar radiation - will drop to as low of scientists in 2021 to predict climate shifts satellites being destroyed, electrical grids going for hundreds, or even thousands of years. we are a couple of hundred thousand years And based on fluctuations in the Earth's magnetic the buildup to a geomagnetic Which begs the question: should we be worried? Earth's magnetic field comes It's not a given that our planet would have a and Venus - do not have one, and yet the Earth is a very real chance life would not have been the protective cocoon of this field, deadly solar surface, allowing living things to flourish causing mutations and cancers. Scientists are of why certain planets have fields and certain that the Earth's core acts as a giant dynamo. electrical fields to create magnetic ones, and plants work under. Moving a magnet through start to flow, as that changing magnetic field But similarly, the motion of electrons creates circles around the direction of motion, in But the way this applies to the Earth's core is our core needs to be at least partially liquid, core that lies at the heart of our planet is a high enough to keep things in a solid state. It's warmest point, so hot that it rivals the surface with the lower pressure compared to the inner nickel that makes it up flowing down there. the centre of the Earth. This gets circulation deeper regions of the outer core creating loops and currents of flowing material. But if there are many of these flowing why does our Earth have only one north pole, fields would be all over the place? Well, there is all these fields and unifies them, pointing them the Coriolis effect. Dynamo theory states that to not rise and fall as straight lines, but as gently be spun in turn, creating giant springs. magnetic field in a circle around it, these springs creates a solid, unified field while the outside brings that magnetic field of the coil. In short, it creates the well-known However, if there's anything that you should precarious, as it is based on a lot of liquid is not very consistent. Our magnetic field thus We see this in different ways, but a big one is scientists began keeping track of it in 1831, the leaving its original location in Canada, motion is also increasing, going from 16km This might still be akin to just the momentary somewhat, but it always remains roughly upright. However, scientists are certain that such have a specific number: 183 times in the last lies locked in our Earth's surface iron. it can contain small amounts of iron. As they tend to orient themselves in the direction noticed that there were layers of geological and layers where it was pointing in the The entire pole of the planet had flipped. 450,000 years, although the last few have only it's been 750,000 years since the last reversal. and some have made that claim. However, scientists the timing of these flips. One of the longest gaps and it lasted 40 million years. The Superchron - was 312 to 262 million years Scientists are still trying to understand theory is that something - perhaps some interplay fluctuation in the core's spinning. This disrupts them down. The magnetic field of the Earth stops mess, fighting against itself. Several poles shifting magnetic confusion. While in time things it seems random as to which way they will do this, pole reappears over the geographical south. All right, but would that really be the end of that period before the poles reassert themselves, of its current strength. In theory, this could radiation space throws at us. We could see auroras Skin cancer rates would increase. Our satellites radiation would fry their circuits, causing them slowly fall from orbit. Our electrical grid which could lead to large segments of the electricity or satellite communication, it would It could be worse than that. A research team even linked one of the most recent weakening's a temporary 800 year wobble rather than a Australia, including the deaths of Diprodoton goliah - giant kangaroos. Temporary wobbles rather than full reversals, and they happen over can last as little as 200 years rather than species to adapt to. In their 2021 study they radiocarbon levels caused by the collapse climate shifts that could have led to these But how real are these risks? Honestly, it's a than this recent study, there is no indication with mass extinction events. It seems like many animal or plant life at all. And even in this limited in scope - there is no claim from the Other parts of the world remained unaffected, a perfect storm might have been in play, where vulnerable to solar radiation. it's worth noting that these magnetic changes even at their fastest. This would be slow enough If our satellites don't have enough shielding, protected. If solar radiation becomes a larger might become more powerful, to mitigate the And according to NASA, even if our it's not like we would be left without protection. meaning that we would remain safe from solar degree. It would take far longer than 10,000 years But I would be surprised if there wasn't at least under a reduced magnetic field. Big changes And this isn't entirely hypothetical. Did you weakening for the last 200 years? It would take so there's plenty of time for it to stop its to think this isn't just a temporary wobble... Atlantic anomaly to consider - a section of showing signs of significant weakening, that and the neighbouring ocean. This zone but is dangerous enough that it has fried Hubble telescope has to turn itself off every time entire globe - that's what we might expect the South Atlantic anomaly has been growing possibly suggesting the approach of either another or that a full-blown reversal is already upon us. ends civilisation as we know it. But if the isn't going to be without impact, either. Species different, more hazardous space environment. reversals, and their potential impacts on the see one happen in our lifetimes, for this might turn out a lot less hypothetical. Given that this collapse has not occurred yet and you might think that solar weather does not except perhaps outside of the Sun's as in Milankovitch cycles. What if I were to tell you that our neighbouring might think that I was suddenly taking a turn away I'm not. While there are many people in the about your future by studying the position of to take on this channel. I'm more interested that explain why it is the way it is. behind even the most surprising of stories. So I'm no writer of horoscopes, I will predict as we get closer to 2025, you might be less reliable technology, see warmer weather with other surprising ways. How do I know? Because in our sky, is not just the place we get our its 11-year cycles might just be the metronome Tick... Our fifth stop in our investigation of Earth to show you exactly how the cycles of the Sun It's no surprise that the Sun is influential to is life's origin. Life on Earth needs energy that energy. Light for plants, plants for all the way up the food chain. It's hard to find But beyond the gift of that life-sustaining fairly static. We see it rise and fall in any sort of change. This, however, is an As science has advanced and we've been able it became possible to study the Sun's surface. was a boiling, shifting sea of barely restrained spite of the intense gravitational force holding place in its core are so hot - reaching 15 million on its surface, erupting into solar flares that of the Sun's surface that are filled with 1,600 and 160,000 km across - form, drift, and out of the Sun's corona - the atmospheric zone than its surface. It's hard to find a place in What many people do not realise is that that on an 11-year cycle that alternates between a a much higher level (the solar maximum) and then become more common during the solar maximum flare during solar maximum compared to the Sun's every few days to multiple times in a single day. this represents one half of a larger cycle known Sun's magnetic polarity. Once every Schwabe cycle and South poles swap places. When another Tick, tick, tick. This constant rising and our planetary system, rising and falling like a see it, we here on Earth move to its rhythm. through this cycle. It's clearly related to Sun itself. Yet, although we have observed these and have seen evidence of their influence on the closer to figuring out why the Sun's cycle has than any other. What force drives it? Lacking tried to connect the orbital length of Jupiter but this could easily be a coincidence. Although all the other planets in the solar system, and the Sun, its orbit cannot explain the variations Much of what goes on within the influence on Earth? That is much easier to see. and more important to modern civilisation, so storms streaming out from the Sun more regularly there. Scientists are able to predict the arrival by the time it arrives at Earth - days or even into safe shelters to hide themselves and it also allows the delicate hardware on hardware from being fried. This is important, as currents to form in wiring, overloading systems But there's another aspect to geomagnetic storms has an impact on the atmosphere itself. It warms it expands, and this has an impact on our so objects can orbit practically forever. Well; Earth Orbit do occasionally - about 4 times a year as there is still a tiny amount of atmosphere the atmosphere blossoms upwards, and LEO to keep from falling from the sudden friction. geomagnetic storm that was so powerful, it knocked as an increase in atmosphere suddenly slowed the studying solar flares. This is not an isolated Defence Command) has to relocate hundreds as they have been knocked out of their old orbits. filling it with charged plasma. This can have reducing their accuracy from within a metre on Google maps and it thinks you might a geomagnetic storm might be to blame. for the uptick in these current-inducing events, radio enthusiasts and airline pilots find their as radio waves get deflected or even blocked ionosphere; although, for such enthusiasts, this signals off the charged ionosphere, radio significantly - kind of like how skipping a pebble Still, for the most part, as I predicted less reliable technology - the fact that the next makes me quite confident in my prophesying. weather becomes more turbulent, parts of the world dancing hypnotically across the sky. Aurora a year to as many as twice a month, during the So much for the Sun's influence on space that's the end of it. The Sun's cycle might make much difference on anything alive, right? nothing that the rest of my horoscope mentioned Sun's cycles can even influence ecosystems Some of this is incidental. When the Schwabe cycle through its solar winds, which means ironically from cosmic radiation. This form of radiation is it through our atmosphere for that very reason, passing air molecule. But reaching the atmosphere is a theory - although still far from certain nucleation sites in the atmosphere that seed that's not occurring, during solar maximum the global temperatures slightly. As my horoscope at Not by much, it should be said - less than eventually returns to where it started; species paying attention to temperature... for season. Studies of birds have shown that on Curiously, a study published in 2009 by as to show that the laying times of blue tits were which even the researchers found hard to the Sun to see how many sunspots there are. to the 5 nesting groups that were looked at. or even species like homing pigeons that are different routes depending on what time in the unmentioned point in my horoscope: bad health. might influence us. In 2011, a study spanning in Holland discovered a peak in 6 cervical maximum, when the Sun's radiation was hitting during the same period, which admittedly is it was interesting to note that the man pulse rate, blood pressure and respiration rate It's not just physical. There is even an A study in 2006 looked at 237,000 clients between 1995 and 2004. They found that, of all chaotic cycles experienced an increased rate in cycle of the Sun at the moment of your birth might not quite star signs, but astrology might just be Ultimately, the science on this is still ongoing, caused by these cycles are extremely minor. and thousands of patients to even notice that should not prevent you from living your life. heading towards a solar maximum, predicted to living through or being born in a solar maximum this radiation might also lead to a rise was during one such cycle, 80 thousand years give it abstract thought and consciousness. the universe, we have much to thank solar The Sun isn't the only astronomical body the Moon is an inescapable part of life on Earth; likely have already heard how its cycles influence tides.[2] We tend to imagine that the Moon and the in a relatively stable, synchronised harmony; simple as we imagine it. Instead, every 18.6 years shift in its alignment between us and our Sun that us over the edge into dangerous flood territory. 'Lunar Nodal Cycle' , or the 'precession of lunar feature of the Moon's orbit of the Earth. Moon orbits the Earth. However, this orbit is not difference between the angle of the Moon's orbit, the Earth orbits around the Sun. For half of the of the ecliptic. For the other half, it drops two crossover points - or two nodes, an ascending whereby the moon goes from one side over to the course of the 18.6 year cycle, slowly rotating The nodes themselves are what causes the problem. tides. You may already be familiar with how the causing a bulge in sea levels on the side closest know that this happens on the side of the planet caused by gravity, this second bulge is caused by gravitational pull on each other causes them to the arms and spinning across the dance floor. Earth being much more massive, the Earth is also thus trying to fling off into space through its The Sun also has a role to play in tide formation, which would cause a greater pull if it were Sun's effect is only one third as big as the Moon. extra-large tides called Spring tides; this they partially cancel each other out, causing So now consider the influence of lunar nodes the pull of the Sun and the Moon working in unison floods. However, the Sun and Moon are never more of each 9.3 year phase they are not quite more temperate. At a node? That's where things get The last time this alignment occurred in September warnings to their citizens. In September itself only when heavy rain combined with the strength that the real damage was inflicted. In the US that caused property damage and people having to December 2015, the UK was hit by some of the worst power of Storm Desmond, flooding and storm damage These floods can be highly damaging... but explain NASA's worry for the upcoming alignment beyond the regular rhythm of this seeing throughout the course of human history. Sun promises to be particularly devastating. The an already strained system - even more strained have seen steadily rising sea levels. When the this will likely lead to a dramatic Worryingly, a new study led by the NASA Sea Level mainland coastlines, Hawaii and Guam will have a predictions claim this node alignment could cause to the next, which will damage infrastructure and human life will inevitably be affected by these electricity, as well as the increased risk of cholera. Plus, the receding flood water can create which can spread other diseases like malaria. as these natural events can make coastal life these homes, or an inability to find insurance at in the community. Consequently, this lunar nodal communities, where infrastructure may not be It's not just bad for humans. Ilia Rochlin, analysed that the peak of the lunar wobble marshes. Salt marshes are a habitat for a and these floods can cause these creatures to seabirds, and others who rely on invertebrates to that rely on salt marshes, as salt marshes hold a fishery species. This means that the lunar wobble causing disturbances to their natural While this all does seem fairly doom and gloom, on the planet are negatively affected by flooding Macquarie University analysed that the lunar contraction of mangrove canopy cover over most of the peaks of the lunar nodal cycle coincided with when the lunar wobble is at its minimum phase, it which leads to thinner canopy cover. Yet, mangrove cover increases. Mangrove canopies are complex ecosystems that fight against coastlines. They can also absorb four times as size. Their growth is vital to the welfare Still, it's clear that if we don't plan will face a serious crisis. The all-important One method is better protection. As mentioned mangroves can act as a shield against flooding, as on the coastlines. More specifically, mangroves energy of waves as they pass through mangrove diminish the height of the waves, and thus the waves emerging onto the seabed and engulfing also reduce wind energy, which can stop the densely packed mangroves can half the height For comparison: in an open forest where roots 500 metres for a wave to half its height. So, or plants with a similar capability, can Another possible solution is to learn how to live nature rather than against it. For example, the Netherlands where one-third of the country is flooding. They've built infrastructure that works They do this by designing facilities like polders. been reasserted from a body of water. It's always keep the water out that comes from either the of drainage canals and pumps to manage water water back to the sea or river to make sure that used to protect houses, farms and factories, The Netherlands also built dams and utilised sand land. This shows that there are ways in which So, the bad news is, behind its ethereal so combined - is set to overwhelm humanity's a little bit of good news too, as knowledge is we can look for solutions, both among already yet to be discovered. If we are to endure what is creativity and drive to adapt and survive; to While it's not directly quite so influential remiss of me to not mention an ethereal interplay us. These moments cause nature to become still and hearts are moved in wonder. The Sun darkens, ring around a pitch-black orb that has to be I am of course talking about solar and countless people went to watch it. moves in front of the Sun, completely obscuring This is the typical kind of eclipse we see on the orbit of the Moon aligns with the Sun. here on Earth, and I'm not just saying that out of fortunate cosmic coincidence, the Moon is the diameter is almost identical in size and shape to leaves for an impressive spectacle, where the upper atmosphere, creates a ghostly aura around extends for hundreds of thousands of kilometres total solar eclipse, and you will also see the outside, plus these reddish wisps coming off tonnes of charged particles, suspended in the During an eclipse here on Earth, the Moon casts across the Earth as the Moon orbits. In the this shadow arrived at the Mexican west the United States until it passed into parts of The shadow moves across the Earth extremely a high altitude, it is a majestic sight as the have also witnessed the movement of this shadow. and this is due to the angular diameter of apart. The Sun itself is huge, a whopping 1.4 at only 3,400km across. Now this image isn't to sharp. The umbra is the shadow where the Sun shadow where the Moon only partially obscures the 250km wide umbra shadow. So why doesn't the in front of the Sun? Well this is because the around the Sun. This means there are only a right. This alignment of three celestial objects something you'll need to remember for this video, It's supposedly an incredibly moving any of you managed to see the most recent So here comes the moment of truth. stack up to mankind's impact on our climate? the ebb and flow of its winds, the churning of celestial neighbours, all have an influence on are predictable and solid, even if they sometimes we don't always live to see them fully play out. planet deepens. We are able to predict hurricanes, droughts or years of plenty. that we did not expect. Something that does not that we may have to bear responsibility for. difficult to turn on the news without hearing are filled with references to rising temperature the discussion around the subject has gotten as been wary about weighing in on, simply because of times. I didn't want to simply create more noise. adding to the discussion. After all, there is the planet. What is often not talked about is the past that contextualise that modern temperature. Scientists believe that in the last 100 hundred but how does this fit into wider patterns and Well, to answer that question, we need to know: to find the current global temperature today - all and take a reading. With enough readings taken find an average temperature for the whole planet. 1850, meaning that our records on average global However, mercury thermometers were only invented was before these global readings started a thousand years ago, or even a million Some of you may already know the answer, can approximate global temperatures in the past because it is powdery, it traps little bubbles but has more snow fall on it later (such you can end up with layers of snow-and-ice-trapped creates something similar to the rings on a tree. can take sections to a lab and melt it, They then can measure the different ratios which tells them the atmospheric composition at is retained by a gas when exposed to a constant retains more heat while Oxygen retains less), with what the global temperature was during that year. so years old. To get a good idea of the trends to need to go back much earlier than that. How do years ago? The answer might surprise you. Actually, not clams, but something no larger than a full stop, called Foraminifera. themselves, and these shells are slightly the shell and trapped there, remaining in using a similar process to the ice cores, if from a particular year, they can release that air This process is slightly different, as looking at different oxygen isotopes, but Foraminifera are still around today, and first so they are instrumental in helping us get a this much-longer time period. Based on data collected from Foraminifera, There is a certain degree of uncertainty the closer we get to the present day. the Earth's temperature has undergone significant it has faced temperature averages 14deg C hotter -5deg C lower. So we are not the hottest we have anyone who knew that the surface of the Earth But you may not have expected these fluctuations. entirely sure, as there doesn't seem to be much believe that some of these fluctuations are from the arrival of plants at around 450 million temperature dropped then - they started absorbing which retains less heat. Other changes and volcanic activity putting more CO2 into been caused by possible meteor impacts, However, this is not the full picture. By we begin to see another interesting trend. Within the large, sweeping changes, it turns out more obvious as we zoom in again. And again. smaller pattern occurring. Rapid rises in global to get your head around the sheer scope of dips represents entire ice ages. Ice ages are history when there is ice on the polar caps technically, as I've mentioned previously, although the general trend of the Earth's we are in something known as an interglacial where the earth is temporarily warmer, in between caps reached the UK, and parts of the US. the dips and rises on our graph. These are 41,000, 100,000, 405,000 and 2,400,000 years. Where are we in relation to one of these As you can see, we have risen out of an ice age global temperature. This is consistent with in temperature, that characterises ice-ages and from the Pyramids to the Present day, can existed before this point, they hadn't really Scientists have named this plateau where human the uptick right at the end is not so usual. temperature by 1deg, which technically is still before our current one, over 100,000 years ago. concerning about this uptick; it is how quickly all these graphs, which have taken place over and thousands of years at the shortest, this a big impact on the ecosystems on the planet. answer cannot be Milankovitch cycles. As you of thousands of years at least, and millions at graphs where there appear to be sharp upticks, we of thousand-year period. Milankovitch cycles like the trickle of a stream that eventually over such a small timeframe as 100 years. event such as the one that wiped out explanation. That meteor was thought to be 10 billion Hiroshima A-bombs. About 75% of species aftermath. If something like that had hit None of our other cycles can account for they are already accounted for in the model. El this has nothing to do with it. This is not due However, there is one factor global temperatures - the activity of humans. have had an impact on the global temperature. we see here are caused by the introduction of Similarly, back when life was still all single the arrival for the first time of cyanobacteria on the atmosphere. For the first time, the atmosphere. This occurred at such a rate there which coincided with a significant drop in the entire world almost froze entirely over, as there snowball Earth, as it came to be known. balance of global temperatures is very to change the atmospheric ratio of gases the subtler effects of Milankovitch cycles. way we have been interacting with the atmosphere. human history, since 1760 and the industrial amounts of greenhouse gases as a waste product 4 decades, each decade has been the hottest global temperatures in 1850. C02 levels are now at ppb, which is higher than we have seen in the last ice-ages and interglacial periods between them). feedback loop. Let's talk about wildfires. exists in the atmosphere, but the majority in the deep oceans, or in biomass which includes Sadly, vegetation is drying out around the means it is more susceptible to fire. There a region that stretches across Canada and after the oceans, and consists mainly of across a section of Boreal forest in Canada's 7 million acres. These fires alone released 94.3 103 million tons. This meant that this fire atmosphere as all the plants and trees in Canada something of a feedback loop - the more C02 in the of wildfires, and the more C02 gets released. total carbon dioxide production across the than any region on Earth and these fires may 8.6 million acres burned in the Russia Taiga. the wildfires a few years back that happened which have directly brought tragedy to people. a lot of the carbon they absorbed back into the regrow, as trees take decades to reach maturity. the same capacity they were. In 1988, a wildfire damaging 36% of the park. Less than 30% of If you really want to see the global impact footage of the Australia forest fire that On the 30th December, smoke from the fires could hue separated them from the water vapour clouds night, and when the morning came there was It was on this day that the military was deployed of trapped civilians. The smoke trail by then a thousand kilometres. Fires continued to it became clear that the wind had shifted, completely blanketing neighbouring Sydney is around here, and was also completely but also reduced the quality of the air for people of any city on Earth during this time. shows the global effect of such an event. and the smoke from 4 days prior was still visible smoke trail was then thousands of kilometres long. Australia; however, none have But it's not just forest fires. The global consistently since 1950, something scientists 2000 years. As you will recall, this has as a planet with less surface ice does not reflect hotter. Like pushing a cart down a hill, these And sadly, rapid changes in global temperature normally takes thousands of years for life to an ice age (woolly mammoths) to conditions time to develop in a species the traits they need not given this time, they either have to move or they will die out. And as the habitable some zones will vanish completely, while created that life in general is poorly adapted to. unstoppable. Global temperature change does have stop changing the atmosphere's ratio, then in time rise will stop. That's why it's so important for like the IPCC - an international group of tasked with finding out the realities of climate report explaining the physical science basis. In influence has warmed the atmosphere, ocean and namely the importance of halting or rapidly is the largest contributor towards climate recommended the development of Carbon Dioxide Some of these are already in operation, such take C02 out of the atmosphere and bury it reservoirs. The IPCC says that actions like this, temperature and even reverse certain other Personally, I'm not super convinced but they do exist. But these efforts needs to Ultimately, my aim for the end of this video was context of the Earth's wider history. From it, say that we're the hottest we've ever been, and I that fact alone is not the reason some people Climate change is a process that usually takes necessarily the change itself but rather the speed get left behind. (And how humanity will cope? We to have to deal with the extremes of the past). and while we can undo some of what has been like higher sea levels will be with us for up to we are past the point of no return for 1.5degC, and our society this decade to stop it going There's no way we as a species will be able to the facts that underpin it, though. Without it will forever be perfectly possible to arrive paths we should take. That is why when it comes By looking at the patterns of our planet's global temperatures is an induced event that it perfectly coincides with human activity. and the best path to take in light set in ice and the bones of organisms Ultimately, Earth cycles are all around us. They times, and at others working in opposition. by learning about them we can learn to live life on Earth is not boring. We as humans are we will prove to be cyclical too remains to be increase until these cycles are no match for the temperature to whatever we want it to be in a For now, it's so important to understand the them. Because, whether we are ignorant At least now, when someone offers you polite you know enough to take it a little farther. "Too easy. I can tell you why is the weather." it might be the end of the conversation. But in my