- The following is a his fourth time on this, (Elon whistling) I thought you were gonna finish it. (Elon whistling) It's one of the greatest (whistling continues) - Yeah, that's great. - So I was just thinking As one does. - There's that whole meme where old guys are thinking about the Roman - And half the population's confused whether it's true or not. But more seriously thinking about the wars going on in the world today. And as you know, war and military conquest has been a big part of And it, I think, has been and dynasties throughout - Yeah, they usually came I mean, there's some, where there was just a lot - But fundamentally there's They celebrate excellence in warfare. Many of the leaders - [Elon] Yeah. So a big picture question, Grok approved, I asked if this is a good question to ask. - [Elon] Get tested Grok approved. - Yeah. At least on fun mode. (Elon laughing) To what degree do you think versus a consequence of how human societies are structured? I ask this as you have been a proponent of peace. - I'm generally a proponent of peace. I mean, ignorance is perhaps, in my view, the real That's the real hard part. Not, you know, fighting other humans. But all creatures fight. I mean, the jungle is a, you look at the, people as perhaps some sort of peaceful thing. But in fact it is not. There's some quite funny where he is like in the jungle, like saying that it's and death in every direction. I mean, the plants, animals in the jungle are constantly trying to kill each other, every single day, every minute. So it's not like, you know, - Well, there's a relevant question here. Whether with greater intelligence over these base instincts for violence. - Yes. We have much more limbic instinct for violence And in fact, if one looks and say, chimpanzee society, it is not friendly. I mean, the Bonobos are an exception, but chimpanzee society And it's quite, quite horrific, frankly, that that's our limbic system in action. Like, you don't wanna be on they'll eat your face off - Yeah, basically, there's or there almost had just war. There's no just war in is war and dominance - Yeah, chimpanzee society is a pro, like a permanent version of human society. They're not like peace There's extreme violence. And then once in a while, somebody who's watched decides to raise a chimpanzee as a pet, and then that eats their or chew their fingers off It's happened several times. - Ripping your nuts off is an interesting strategy for interaction. - It's happened to Like that's, I guess a one way to ensure that the other chimp contribute to the gene pool. - Well, from a martial arts perspective is the fascinating strategy. - (laughing) The nut riper. (laughing) - I wonder which of the - I think it's safe to say in their hands and as the you'll be amenable to whatever they want. - Yeah. - So like I said, somehow controversially, you've been an proponent - Yeah. - So let me ask you about and to see what the How do you hope the current war in Israel and Gaza comes to an end? What path do you see that can minimize human suffering in the long term in - Well, I think that part of if you look up the, in the dictionary. It'll be that, like the in Israel especially. So there is no easy answer. What my, this is strictly is that the goal of Hamas was to provoke an They obviously did not have a military victory, but they expect, they really wanted to that they could in order to provoke the most aggressive response And then leverage that aggressive response to rally Muslims worldwide for the course of Gaza and Palestine, which they have succeeded in doing. So the counterintuitive thing here, I think that the thing that even though it's very difficult, is that I would recommend that Israel engage in the most conspicuous Every po- everything. That is the actual thing that we're taught the goal of Hamas. - So in some sense, the degree that makes sense in geopolitics turn the other cheek implemented. - It's not exactly turn the other cheek. Because I do think that there's, you know, I think it is appropriate for Israel to find the Hamas members and, you know, either kill Like that's something that's 'cause they're just gonna But in addition to that, they There's some talk of establishing, for example, a mobile hospital. I'd recommend doing that. Just making sure that, you know, there's food, water, medical, necessities, and just be over the top about it and be very transparent. So you can't claim it's a trick. Like just put webcam on the - Deploy acts of kindness. Conspicuous acts of kindness that, with that are unequivocal. Meaning they can't be somehow, because Hamas will then, their response will be, oh, it's a trick. Therefore you have to - This ultimately fights the broader force of hatred in the region. - Yes. And I'm not sure who said it, but an eye for an eye Now that neck of the woods, they really believe in the But I mean, you really have, if you're not gonna just like against an entire people, which obviously would not shouldn't be acceptable to anyone, then you're gonna leave who subsequently, you know, hate Israel. So really the question is like, how, for every Hamas member that you kill, how many did you create? And if you create more than you killed, you've not succeeded. That's the, you know, And it's safe to say that if, you know, if you kill somebody's child in Gaza, you've made at least a few Hamas members who will die just to kill an Israeli. That's the situation. So, but I mean, this is one of the most one could possibly discuss. But I think if the goal ultimately is some sort of long-term peace, one has to be, look at this over time, are there more or - Let me just linger on war. - Yeah, war safe to say, wars always existed and always will exist. - [Lex] Always will exist, - Always has existed - I hope not. You think it always will? - There will always be war. This question of just how much war. And, you know, there's this, there's this sort of the But to imagine that there in the future, I think would - Yeah you talked about There's war even there. - Yes. It's a giant war. The first book starts off where trillions die, trillions. - But it still nevertheless of flourishing. Somehow you can have galactic war and still have pockets of flourishing. - Yeah. I mean it's, I guess if we you know, the galaxy or whatever, there will be a galactic - The scale, I mean the scale increasing, increasing. It's like a race between and the scale of flourishing. - Yes. - A lot of people seem to beat the drums of war and feed the military industrial complex. Do you worry about this? The people who are rooting for escalation and how can it be stopped? - One of the things that did concerned me is that there are very who actually viscerally at least in the US. I mean, obviously there are in Ukraine and Russia who understand just how terrible war is, but how many people in And my grandfather was in World War II. He was severely traumatized. He was there, I think for in eastern North Africa and Italy. All his friends were And he would've died too, I guess, IQ test or something. And he scored very high. And he was not an officer, he was a, I think a corporal or a Because he didn't finish high school because he had to drop outta high school, 'cause his dad died and he had to work to support his siblings. So because he didn't graduate high school, he was not eligible for the officer corps. So, you know, he kind of got category, basically. But then, this, randomly He was transferred to British That's where he met my grandmother. But he had PTSD next I mean, just didn't And if you tried talking to him, he'd just tell you to shut up. And he won a bunch of medals. Never bragged about it once, I like found out about it, 'cause his military records were online. That's how I know. So he would say like, no way in hell do you wanna do that again. But how many people, now you know, 20 years ago or How many people are alive Not many. - And the same perhaps applies - Yeah. I mean, there pointed at United States the radio active revel balance many times. - There's two major So you talked about the But now as we sit here with the intensity of conflict going on, do - I think we shouldn't of nuclear war. It is a civilizational threat. Right now I could be wrong, but I think the current is quite low. But there are a lot of So, and we have a lot of They're still there. The missiles are still in the silos. - And the leaders don't with the nukes talking to each other. - No. There are wars which are tragic and difficult on a local basis. And then there are wars or has that potential. Obviously global thermonuclear to end civilization, perhaps permanently. But certainly, you know, to severely wound and perhaps set back human progress by, you know, to the stone age Pretty bad. Probably scientists and after that as well. And like you got us into this mess. - So generally I think we civilizational risks over and tragic on a local level, - How do you hope the war And what's the path, once again to minimizing human suffering there? - Well, I think that which is really pretty much the way it is, is that something very close how a ceasefire or truth happens. But, you know, you just where whoever goes on the at several times the rate 'Cause you've got defense in depth, you've got minefields, Nobody has air superiority. 'cause the anti-aircraft missiles are really far better than the aircraft. Like, they're far more of them. And so neither side has air superiority. Tanks are basically death and they're not immune So you really just have and infantry ranges. It's World War I all over throwing old drones, some drones there. - Which makes the long range artillery just that much more accurate and better and so more efficient at - Yeah. So it's whoever is, you to advance from either side, 'cause the probability of So in order to overcome defense in depth trenches and minefields, you local superiority in numbers. Ideally combined alms with aircraft, a and a lot of people. That's the only way you're And then you're gonna punch through and then not have right out again. I mean, I really recommend people read World War I warfare in detail. That's rough. I mean, the sheer number was mind boggling. - And it's almost impossible that doesn't look like almost in terms of what land But on the other side of a and destruction of infrastructure. - Yes. I mean, the thing that, the reason I, you know, proposed some sort of truce or peace a year ago was because I've predicted what would happen, which for basically almost no changes in land. And this, the loss of the flower of Ukrainian and Russian youth. And we should have some as well as the Ukrainian boys, 'cause they, Russian boys didn't ask to be on their front line, they have to be. So there's a lot of sons not you know, and I think most they don't hate the other side. You know, it's sort of like this saying comes from World who don't know each on behalf of old men The hell's the point of that? - So Vladimir Zelensky said that he's not, or has said in the past, he's not interested in Do you think he should? - Yeah. lead a leader and negotiate peace? - Look, I think I would just recommend do not send the flower of Ukrainian youth to die in trenches. Whether he talks to Putin Whoever goes on the offensive will lose massive numbers of people and history will not - You've spoken honestly between US and China in the long term. If no diplomatic solution on the question of Taiwan - [Elon] Right. - How do we avoid the trajectory where these two superpowers clash? - Well, it's worth reading that book on the, difficult to I believe it's called. I love war history. I like There's hardly a battle And trying to figure out like of victory in any to what one side or - Both the victory and - Yeah, yeah, - Yeah, so that Athens and The thing about the Greek is they really wrote down a lot of stuff. They loved writing. You know, there are lots that happened in many parts of the world, but people didn't write down. (laughing) So we don't know what happened, or they didn't really They just would say like, And like, well what? The Greeks, they really They were very articulate So, and we have a bunch of So we know what led up between the Spartan and Athenian alliance. And we know that they saw it coming. I mean, the Spartans didn't write, they also weren't very but they did write, but They were terse. But the Athenians and the and they were like, and like the leader of Greece. But Athens grew stronger and stronger with each passing year. And everyone's like, that there's gonna be a clash Well, how do we avoid that? And they couldn't. They actually, they saw it coming and they still could So, you know, at some point one civilization or country or whatever exceeds another, sort of, like, you know, the United States has been the since I think around 1890 So the United States most powerful economic longer than anyone's been alive. And the foundation of war is economics. So now we have a situation in the case of China where the economy perhaps three times larger So imagine you're the for as long as anyone can remember. And suddenly a kid comes - So we see it coming. - How is it possible to stop? Is there some, let me just intermixing of There does seem to be a giant cultural gap in understanding of each other. And you're an interesting case study because you are an American, a lot of incredible manufacture but you also work with China. - I've spent a lot of time in China and met with the leadership many times. - Maybe a good question to ask is, what are some things about China that people don't understand What's some interesting things that you've learned about the Chinese? - Well, the sheer number of really smart, hardworking people in China is incredible. There are really, say like how many smart, hardworking people are there in China, there's far more of them I think in my opinion. And they've got a lot of energy. So I mean, the architecture in China that's in recent years is far I mean the train stations, the buildings, the high speed rail, everything, it's really far more impressive I mean, I recommend and Beijing, look at the buildings and go to, you know, take the where you have the terracotta warriors. China's got an incredible And you know, I think arguably the, in terms of the use of language sort of one of the oldest, perhaps the oldest written language. And then China, people So now China historically has always been, with rare exception, They have not been inquisitive. They've fought each other. There've been many, many civil wars. In the three kingdoms war, I believe they lost about So, and that, so they've had brutal internal wars, like civil wars that make the US Civil War look small by comparison. So I think it's important to appreciate that China is not monolithic. We sort of think of like China as this sort of one entity of one mind. And this is definitely not the case from what I've seen, and I think most people who People in China think about China 10 times more than they think about anything outside of China. So it's like 90% of you know, our is internal. - Well, isn't that a really positive thing when you're talking and a future piece between superpowers, when you're inward facing, which is like focusing versus focusing on... - &quot;Improving&quot; others - The good news, the that China is not inquisitive. Meaning they're not gonna go out and invade a whole bunch of countries. Now they do feel very strongly, you know, so that's good. I mean, 'cause a lot of have been inquisitive. The US is one of the, that has not been inquisitive. Like after World War II, the US could have basically taken over the world in any country. Like, we've got nukes, We don't even have to lose soldiers. Which country do you want? And the United States could Oh wait, at will. And it didn't, and the helped rebuild countries. So it helped rebuild Europe, This is very unusual behavior, You know, the US did like the Berlin airlift, you know? And I think, you know, it's always like, well, America's done bad things. Well, of course America's done bad things. But one needs to look at And just generally, you would be how do you treat Or let's say, you know, no offense to the Russians, but it's 1945, you got the and you got the French, British, and American Army's coming the other side. Who would you like to Like, no country is like morally perfect, but I recommend being a That would be my choice - In the full menu of POWs. - Very much so. And in fact, Wernher von Braun, took, you know, smart guy was like, we've got to be captured by the Americans. And in fact, the SS was under and all of the German rocket initiatives. And they narrowly escaped their SS. They said they were going They left in the middle And they ran like, with no And just ran like hell and ran west. And by Sherlock, they, I like a bicycle or something, and then just cycled west as fast as he couldn't have found a US patrol. So anyway, that's one way Where do you wanna be PoW? (laughing) It's not fun anywhere, but some places are So anyways, so like America has been, while far from perfect, and we should always be self-critical and we try to be better. But anyone with have brain knows that. So I think there are some, in this way China and the Neither country has been So that's like a, you know, Now China does feel very They've been very clear You know, from their standpoint, it would be like one of not there like Hawaii But more significant And Hawaii is pretty significant for us. So they view it as really the, that there's a fundamental part of China. The islander Formosa not Taiwan, that is not part of China, but should be. And the only reason it hasn't been is 'cause the US Pacific Fleet. - And as their economic power grows and as their military power grows, the thing that they're clearly saying is their interest will, you - Yes. China has been very clear that peacefully or militarily, but that they will incorporate it from their standpoint is 100% likely. - You know, something you acts of kindness. As a geopolitical policy, but I'd venture to say the path forward, how you avoid most wars. Just as you say it, it sounds naive, but it's kind of brilliant. If you believe in the goodness of underlying most of human nature. It just seems like it can reverberate through the populace of the countries involved. - Yeah, well. - Absolutely. So after World War I, You know, they basically tried to lump all of lamb on Germany and, you know, settled Germany with impossible reparations. And, you know, really, there was a lot of, there was a fair, quite a bit of blame to go around for World War I, but they try to, you know, And that was, that laid So it's a lot of people a lot of people felt wronged and they wanted vengeance and they got it. - [Lex] People don't forget. - Yeah, you know, you or mother or son, daughter, They'll want vengeance. So after World War II, they're like, well, the Treaty of Versailles was And so this time, instead of, you know, crushing the losers, we're actually gonna help and we're gonna help rebuild Germany. We're gonna help rebuild and the other, you know, And that was the right move. - There's a, it does feel to conspicuous acts of kindness - Something must stop the Something must stop it or it will, you know, it'll never stop. Just eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, limb for a limb, life for - To escape briefly, the darkness was some xAI just released Grok AI assistant that I've gotten a chance to play with. It's amazing on many levels. First of all, it's amazing in a relatively short amount this close to state-of-the art system. Another incredible thing and there's a fun mode. - Yeah. I guess I'm to blame - I wish, first of all, I wish everything in life had a fun mode. - Yeah. - There's something compelling beyond just fun about the fun mode interacting with a large language model. I'm not sure exactly what it is 'cause I only have had a little But it just makes it more interesting, more vibrant to interact with the system. - Yeah, absolutely. Our AI Grok is modeled after the Hitchhiker's which is one of my it's a book on philosophy, And I would say that of my philosophy, which is that we don't know the meaning of life, but the more we can expand the scope and scale of consciousness, digital and biological, the what questions to ask about the So I have a philosophy of curiosity. - There is generally a has an outward looking, like the way you are, like sitting with a good friend like the asking pod head, like wondering what it's all about. The curiosity you talk about. There's a sense no matter how there's a sense of cosmic - Well we are actually working math, physics answers So for the other sort of AIs out there that these so-called I've not found the And the hallucination, it unfortunately hallucinates most when you at least want it to hallucinate. So when you're asking that that's where it tends So we're really trying hard to say, okay, how do we be as grounded as possible so you can count on the results? Trace things back to mathematical logic. So underlying the humor is an aspiration to adhere to the truth of the universe as closely as possible. - [Lex] That's really tricky. So that's why, you know, there's always gonna be but we want to aspire to be as truthful as possible about the answers with acknowledged error. So that there was always, you wrong, so you're not but you wanna minimize how often you're confidently wrong. And then like I said, once as being not violating physics, then you can start to build on that, to create inventions, like But if you can't, if you cannot count on the foundational obviously the inventions you know, imagination - Well, as you said, I of xAI is to understand the universe. - Yes. That's how simple - If you look out far into the future, do you think on this level of physics, the very edge of what we do you think it will make discoveries, sort of the sexiest discovery sort of unifying general So coming up with a theory of everything, do you think it could push Almost like theoretical - If an AI cannot figure out new physics, it's clearly not equal to humans, let alone nor has surpassed humans, 'cause humans have They're just, you know, you know, deepening wants And then there's engineering that have never existed. Now the range of is far greater than for physics. 'Cause you know, once of the universe, that's it. You've discovered things But from that you can with that are really almost limitless in the variety and cap- you know? It's like once you understand the rules of the game properly, and we do, you know, with current physics, we do understand how physics works very well. Where our ability to predict Like quantum mechanics is, the degree to which quantum is incredible. That was my heart hardest My senior quantum than all of my other classes put together. - To get an AI system, to reliably, be as reliable and physics is very difficult. - Yeah. You have to test any truth of reality. Reality is the ultimate judge. Like physics is the law, everything else is a recommendation. I've seen plenty of people but none break the laws made by physics. - Yeah, it's a good test actually. If this LLM understands and matches physics, then whatever it thinks about the current state of politics in some sense. - And it's also not the case currently that even that its internal So, especially with these, with the approach of like just token, predict, token, You know, you're summing but you can get drift. So as those, a little bit of error, a little bit of error adds up. And by the time you are it doesn't make any sense. - So it has to be somehow - It has to be self-aware about the drift, and then look at the thing and say it does it have So, you know, when authors write books that they will write the and revise it, you know, you know, all the, the and the middle and rewrite so that it doesn't end up - [Lex] Maybe the process - Yeah. - Reasoning is, and then is how you get closer and closer to truth. Maybe you, like, at least You just say a bunch of bullshit first and then you get it better. You start a bullshit and then you get... - Create a draft and then until it has has coherence, until it all adds up basically. - So another question but for intelligence, do as you're exploring this with xAI, creating this intelligence system, do you think there is a where you get to understand what, like what is the I in AGI and what is the I in human intelligence? - There's no I in Team (both laughing) - No, it's gonna be stuck in my head now. (both laughing) Yeah. There's no me and Oh, wait. I mean is that part of the understanding the universe is - Yeah. Yeah. I think we need to understand consciousness. I mean there are some sort of what is thought? What is emotion? - [Lex] Yeah. bumping into another atom? It feels like something more than that. So I think we're probably like some really big things. - Something that'll be - [Elon] Yes. like you put the whole - Well, some people you know, in religion it'd be a soul. Like you feel like you're you, right? I mean, you don't feel like of atoms, but on what What dimension does do emotions exist? We feel them very strongly. I suspect there's more to it - And maybe AI can pave of whatever the hell that thing is. - Yeah. What is consciousness? Like what are, when you put the why are they able to form thoughts and take actions, that and feelings. - And even if it is an illusion, why is this illusion so compelling? - Yeah. Like how do... - Why does this illusion exist? - [Lex] Yeah. does this illusion exist? - [Lex] Yeah. you know, either perhaps or nothing is conscious, one of the two. - I like the former, everything conscious just seems more fun. - It does seem more more fun. Yes. But we're composed of atoms and those atoms are composed And those quarks and since the beginning of the universe. - The beginning of the universe. - Right. What seems to be the - The first time we talked, which is surreal to think that this discussion was I asked you what question once you create it? And you said, what's outside And good question. - [Elon] Yeah. you started to literally, is to be able to ask such questions, to answer such questions and to ask such questions. - Where are the aliens? - That's one of the, like A lot of people have asked me if I've seen any evidence which is kind of concerning. 'Cause then I think to at least have seen some to the best of my knowledge, I'm not aware of any evidence of aliens. If they're out there, they're very subtle. We might just be the only consciousness, at least in the galaxy. And if you look at say forensically the archeological record, Earth is about four and Civilization as measured is only about 5,000 years old. We have to give some credit who aren't around anymore. I think it was a archaic, pre cuneiform was the first but only about 5,000 years ago. I think that's a good date for when word say civilization started. That's one millionth of Earth's existence. So civilization has been around, it's really a flash in the pan so far. And why have we, why you know, four and a half billion years? For the vast majority of And then there was archaic there bacteria for a very long time. And then, you know, you had multicellular life. Differentiation into plants and animals. Life moving from the oceans to land. Mammals, higher brain functions. And the sun is expanding slowly, but it will overheat, it will heat the earth up boil the oceans and and Where near life, life as So if we do not become multi-planetary and ultimately go beyond our solar system, annihilation of all life A certainty. And it could be as little as half a billion years. You know, it's long but that's only 10% longer than earth has been around at all. So if life had taken 10% it wouldn't exist at all. - We got a deadline But that said, as you said, developed a lot of cool - So... - It seems like becoming a multi-planetary is almost inevitable. Unless we destroy this thing. I mean, it's not, I mean, if we are able to go out there and explore other star systems that we, there's a good chance of long dead one planet civilizations, then have made it past their home planet. - That's so sad. - It's sad. Also fascinating. - I mean, there are various explanations for Fermi paradox. And one is the sort of, which civilizations don't pass through. And one of those great filters is do you become a multi-plan And if you don't, it's before something happens on your planet. You know, either natural or manmade that causes us to die out. Like the dinosaurs, where are they now that didn't have - I think the more likely thing is, 'cause just to empathize with the aliens that they found us and and letting us be. Nice aliens. - Just like the tribes in the Amazon, the uncontacted tribes, That's what... - That would be a nice explanation. - Or you could have like a, what was it? I think Andrej Karpathy said, it's like the ants in the Amazon - Well, they do run into - [Lex] That's true. - (laughing) Sounds like a good TV show. - Yeah, they literally have these big wars between various ants. - Yeah, maybe I'm just dismissing all the - You should listen to that Warner Herzog talking about the jungle. It's really hilarious. Have you heard it? - No, I have not. - But Warner Herzog is a way... (both laughing) - You should play it for the, you know, as an interlude in the, it's on YouTube. It's awesome. - [Lex] I love him so much. - Was he the director of &quot;Happy People: Life in the Taiga&quot;? I think also - He did that bear documentary, - [Lex] The bear documentary. - And this thing about penguins. - Yeah. The analysis, the - Yeah, the penguins like like that are like 70 miles away. And Penguin has just - Well, he had a cynical take. I have a, he could be and there'll be great stories told about him amongst the penguin population for many centuries to come. (laughing) What were we talking about? Okay. - [Elon] Penguins. - Yeah, so aliens, I mean, I don't know. Look, I think the smart this is the first time that it's been possible for life to extend beyond earth. That window is open. Now, it may be open for a long time or it may be open for a short time and it may be open now So I think the smart move here is to make life multiplanetary We don't wanna be one of those lame one planet civilizations - No, those are lame. Self-respecting civilization - There's not gonna be a Wikipedia entry for one of one of those. And pause, the SpaceX for when we meet aliens. - No. (laughing) - That seems irresponsible. (both laughing) - I mean, look, if I see that there are aliens, I will immediately post on - It could be the most liked - Yeah, I mean look, we have more satellites up there right now than everyone else combined. So, you know, we'd know, we around something, and we not don't have to - If we go to the big you said you've, you're with Einstein that you - (laughing)Yes. - So, you know, that's a view that God is like the universe and is reveals himself or as Einstein said, through the lawful harmony of the world. - Yeah, I would agree or whatever the supreme being or beings, reveal themselves through the physics. You know, they're and it's incumbent upon more about this wondrous creation. - Like who created this thing, Like embodying it into a singular question with a sexy word on top of it is like focusing the It does seem like there's a, It seems like there's a purpose that there's an underlying And it seems like... - There may not be a master plan. In the sense, so there's, like, maybe an interesting of determinism versus free will is that if we are in a simulation, the reason that these higher is to see what happens. So it's not, they don't know what happens, otherwise they wouldn't So when humans create a simulation, so it's SpaceX and Tesla, we create simulations all the time, especially for the rocket. You, you know, you have to to understand what's gonna happen because you can't really test the rocket until it goes to space, So you have to simulate supersonic, hypersonic ascent, and then coming back super high heating and orbital dynamics. All this has gotta be simulated. So, 'cause you don't get But we run the simulations Not if we knew what happens, So if there's, so whoever is they're running it because they don't know Not because they do. - So maybe we both played Diablo, maybe Diablo was created to could defeat Uber Lilith at the end. They didn't know. - Well, the funny thing is Hatred Incarnate. - [Lex] Yeah. I guess, you're gonna ask the Diablo team, but it's almost impossible in the eternal realm. - Yeah, you've streamed Nightmare Dungeons and still... - I can cruise through like a stroll in the park. - And still you're defeated by Hatred. - Yeah, I can, there's the sort of, I guess maybe the second Duriel can't even scratch the paint. So I killed Duriel so many times , and every other boss in kill 'em so many times it's easy. But Uber Lilith, otherwise especially if you're a Druid and to be vulnerable, there are these random death And I'm pretty, you know, I really am 52, so my reflex is not what they used to be, but I have a lifetime At one point I was, you know, maybe one of the best I actually won money in paid eSports tournament in the US. We're doing four person Quake tournaments. And we came second, I was the and the actual best person, we're actually winning, we would've come first except his computer crashed prior to the game. So we came second. But I got money for it and everything. So like, basically I got you know, no spring chicken these days. And to be totally frank, trying to beat Lilith as a Druid. Basically trying to beat, in the eternal realm. - [Lex] As a Druid. And if you, if you, (laughing) this is really (indistinct), - I mean, the challenge I have seen directly like you're actually like a world class - [Elon] Yeah. so you're just picking up a new game and you're figuring out it's fundamentals. You're also with the Paragon Board and the build are not somebody like me who perfectly follows whatever You're also an innovator there. - [Elon] Yeah. - Which is hilarious to watch. It's like a mad scientist just trying to figure out the Paragon Board and the build and the, you know. Is there some interesting if somebody's starting as a - I would not recommend playing a Druid in the eternal realm. Right now, I think the in the seasonal realm is the Sorcerer with the lightning balls. The Sorcs have huge balls in the seasonal. - Well yeah, that's what they say. - So Sorc have huge balls. They do, huge balls of lightning. - I'll take you word for it. - And it's actually, you can, it's like pretty easy to beat Uber Lilith with the, because she got these vampiric powers that out fire damage and increase your defense and whatnot. So, but really quite easy but to defeat hatred Almost impossible. It's It seems like this is a - I like the idea that Elon Musk, because I saw, I was and I saw 100, level 100 drew just run by, I will never die and - And it was, there's just some, this metaphor's kind Elon Musk is fighting Hatred, restlessly fighting Hatred - [Elon] Yes. I mean it's pretty hilarious. - No, it's absurd. Really, it's exercise and absurdity, and it makes me wanna pull my hair out. - Yeah. What do you get Is there for you personally. - I mean, it's, I don't known it's, it calms my mind. I mean, you sort of killing calms the demons in my mind. Yeah. If you play a tough video game, you can get into like a state of flow, which is very enjoyable. But the admittedly it not too hard, kinda in the Goldilock zone. And I guess you generally wanna feel like you're progressing in the game. So a good video, and there's also beautiful and it's like an amazing And so it's like solving the puzzle. - Elden Ring the greatest I still haven't played it, but you. - Elden Ring is definitely a candidate for best game ever. Top five for sure. - I think I've been scared how hard it is or how hard I hear it is, so. But it is beautiful. - Elden Ring is, feels like There's a theme to this - It's so unusual. It's incredibly creative I recommend playing it high dynamic range TV even, just the art is incredible. It's so beautiful And it's so unusual. And each of those top Like, it's like a unique puzzle to solve. Each one is different. And the strategy you use to solve one battle is different - That said, you said Druid and Enternal against Uber Lilith is the - Correct. That is currently the, and I've played a lot of video games. That's my primary recreational activity. And yes, beating Hatred is the hardest boss battle in life and in the video game. - [Lex] Metaphor on top of metaphor. - I'm not sure it's possible, but it's, I do make progress. So then I'm like, okay, Maybe if I just tweak that I can do it. I could just dodge a few - Well the simulation is of figuring out if it can be done. And you are just a cog in that simulation, in the machine of the simulation. - Yeah it might be. - I have a feeling that at least, I think... - It's doable, yes. - [Lex] Well that's the human - Yeah. I mean, did prompt me to think which is, you wanna be where you wish for but if you get it, it's So, you know, you could have heart to sort of like, if you wish for world peace, sounds good, but how is it enforced? And at what cost is, at It might actually be worse because of what that would entail. The suppression of everyone. It might be the suppression of progress. It might be an ossified What I'm saying is that that you, that if that, if you wish for no war, you should be careful what you wish for. Because what's required in Might be worse than a little war. - Yeah, the things we'll of human civilization might for whatever optimal looks like. I mean this, do you worry about state of this nature, whether and fear, or brave new and what is it? Lots of sex, but no deep human experience. - You know, there's actually - [Lex] There is? (both laughing) - I'm like... - Did they actually... - Does Grok know about it? No, it probably will - We could ask it. - Tell us about the drug called Soma. - Tell us about the drug called Soma. It's gonna go to Brave New World, I think. - Well there's a real drug as well. - Searching for Soma drug information. (both laughing) - Oh boy. Ah, Soma, the one to drug, - Oh, okay. Fun. (laughing) Yeah, so it's talking about the real drug. - [Lex] Oh, it's a muscle relaxant that's been around since the 1950s. It's used to treat muscle And it does this by altering the activity between neurons and the spinal cord. Now, Soma isn't just a pain reliever, it's also a bit of a sedative. It can make you feel a bit drowsy. So it's not something to take if you're planning on or trying to solve complex math equations. And it goes on and on. In conclusion, Soma's a for those dealing with muscle pain, but it's not without its risks. It's pretty good. Oh, wait a minute. - [Elon] That's the real - [Lex] It's the real drug. - [Lex] And of course the fun in accordance with the advice And remember in the end, the universe is probably just So don't take anything too seriously. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. - Yeah. So. - Oh, and also really nicely includes like the tweets post on X which is really cool. - [Elon] Yeah. - And that integrate everything together. - [Elon] Yeah. is one of the really cool things here. - Yeah. Seems done a great job. (laughing) So, and you say like, you Soma from Brave New World. 'Cause it thinks you mean, you mean Soma the real drug. - Yeah. Soma from Brave New World. - It's gonna be like, I'm really surprised it Ah, my apologies. I was Soma for Band New World is a Now this Huxley's dystopian novel, Soma is a drug that plays a central role in society, depicted in the book. It's a mood altering, to keep the population docile and content. In the novel to use raises some interesting questions about the nature of happiness and the role of drugs in society. Oh, man! Is it better to live in a world where everyone is happy all the time, even if that happiness is artificial? Good question. This is what I mean. Like, do you want, do and happiness all the time? Are you sure? Because that might be a society and ossified that never changes, that is ultimately doomed. - This kind of tension - It's, this is really It really gets to the point. This is not simply It's actually getting of Soma as a drug. Do you actually wanna be in a situation where everyone is happy all the time, even though it's artificial? Or is it better to confront and experience the full even if it means experiencing - For those listening, by the way, Elon just read directly from Grok, which is a really nice, philosophical analysis Interesting. - It pretty much nails it. In conclusion, Soma from Brave that's used to explore some about the nature of happiness and the role of drugs in society. It's a powerful symbol of to escape from reality and the importance of of life head-on. Nailed it. And the crazy thing is like, you know, we do have a real drug called Soma, which kind of is kind of And I'm like, did they, they must've named it after that Soma. - Probably, probably, Soma the real drug is quite - So, you know about this drug? - I've taken it. - 'Cause I had like a, in my C five C six. - So it takes the physical - It doesn't completely, it you feel, but at the It dells your mind. Just the drug in the book. - Just like the drug in the book. - And hence the trade off. The thing that seems like utopia could be a dystopia after all. - Yeah, and actually I was saying like, would you really want there to be no hate in the world? Like, really none? Like, I wonder why hate evolved. I'm not saying we should I think we should try to minimize it. But none at all, hmm. There might be a reason for hate. - And suffering. I mean, it's really complicated of human suffering is necessary - Is it possible to appreciate the highs without knowing the lows? - And that all is summarized there in a single statement from Grok. Okay. no lows, who knows? - That's almost the poem. It seems that training LLMs efficiently is a big focus for xAI. What's the, first of all, what's the limit of what's possible in terms of efficiency? There's this terminology of Like what have you learned from - Well, I think it's helpful. The tools of physics are very powerful and can be applied, I think to almost any, really any arena in life. It's really just critical thinking. For something important you need to reason from first principles in the limit one direction or the other. So in the limit, even meaning even if you harness you'll still care about So that's where, I think probably where things are headed is that we have a silicon shortage now that will transition to shortage in about a year. Ironically, transformers, You need transformers to run transformers. - Somebody has a sense (both laughing) - I think. Yes. Fate loves irony, ironic humor and ironically funny outcome seems to be often what fate wants. - Humor is all you need. I Somebody posted. - Yeah, but yeah. So we're, I have silicon shortage today, a voltage step down transformer, shortage probably in about a year. And then just electricity in about two years. I gave a speech for the sort of world gathering of utility companies, electricity companies, and I said, look, you for a traveling of electricity demand, because all transport with the ironic exception of rockets. And heating will also go electric. So energy usage right now is roughly one third, very rough terms. One third electricity, one third transport, one third heating. And so in order for to go electric, you need to triple electricity output. So I encourage the utilities to build more power of plants and also to probably have, well, not probably, they should because the grid currently which is kind of crazy. 'Cause you know, that means the peak electricity demand or the worst day of the year. Or you can have a brownout or a blackout, and you're at that crazy blackout for several days in Austin. So because there's almost no buffering of energy in the grid. Like if you've got a hydro power plant, you can buffer energy, but So with batteries, you can and use it during the So I expect that there will be in the future, because the peak to trough is anywhere from two to five, you know, so it's like lowest - So like batteries And then, but the is going to grow, grow, grow, grow. - [Elon] Yeah. - And part of that is the compute? - Yes. Yes. I mean, electrification, I mean, electrification of transport and electric heating will - [Lex] At least in the short term? - In the short term. But even for AI, you really have a growing for electric vehicles, and a for, to run the computers for AI. And so this is obviously leading, can lead to a electricity shortage. - How difficult is the problem of, in this particular case, maximizing the useful neural nets? Like, this seems to be we're facing that needs to be solved, is how to use the power efficiently. Like what you've learned this physics first principle How difficult is this problem? - It will get solved. It's the question of how So at various points, there's limit, some kind of limiting factor to progress. And with regard to, I'm saying like right is silicon chips, and that more chips than we can actually plug in and turn on probably in about a year. The initial constraint being literally voltage step down transformers, because you've got power and it's gotta step all the way down eventually to around 0.7 volts. So it's a very big amount of, you know, the voltage step down is gigantic. So, and the industry is - Okay, let's talk about You've shown concern about Google and Microsoft with Open AI developing AGI, how can you help ensure with xAI and Tesla AI work that it to AGI, but that is a collaborative - Well, I mean, I've been pushing for some kind of regulatory I've been somewhat of a for over a decade. I think we wanna be very It's a great power, and with great power comes I think it would be wise for us to have at least an objective like a referee that can go in and understand what the are doing with AI. And even if there's no they should, they can at You know, Geff Hinton, for example, left Google and he voiced strong concerns. But now he's not at Google anymore, so who's gonna voice the concerns? So I think there's, like, I know Tesla gets a on the automotive front. I mean, we're subject to I think, over a hundred regulatory agencies domestically and internationally. So it's a lot. You could fill this room that Tesla has to adhere Same is true in, you know, for rockets and for, you know, currently for Starship launch is The FA has actually given their approval, but we're waiting for Fish and Wildlife to finish their analysis and give their approval. That's why I posted I want (laughing) which also refers to - [Lex] Yeah. - Like why do you need I don't know.(laughing) But according to the rules, I'm told you need some sort We effectively need a fish (laughing) And I'm like, wait a second. How did the fish come into this picture? - [Lex] Yeah. - I mean some of the I feel like are so absurd that I wanna do like a comedy sketch and flash at the bottom. This is all real. This is You know, one of the things at one point is that they were worried about our rocket hitting a shark. And, now the ocean's very big, and how often do you see sharks? Not that often, you know? As a percentage of ocean surface area sharks basically are zero. And so then we will, then we said, well, how will we of telling a shark? And they're like, well, we because they're worried about shark hunt, shark fin hunters going And I said, well, how are we supposed to, we're on the horns of a dilemma then. (laughing) Then they said, well, and wildlife that can do this analysis. I'm like, well, why don't Like, we don't, they Like, excuse me, you don't, but they're literally in your department. But again, this is actually what happened. And then can you do an NDA or something? (laughing) Eventually they managed to and indeed the probability is essentially zero. Then there's another organization that I didn't realize a few months ago that cares about whether we would potentially hit a Now again, you look at the surface of the, look at the Pacific and say, the Pacific consists of whale. Like he'll give you a big picture and like point out all the And I'm like, I don't see any whales. (laughing) It's like basically 0%. And if our rocket does hit a whale, which is extremely that is the, fate had it, that whale has some seriously bad luck. You know, it's the least - I mean, this is quite absurd. The bureaucracy, the bureaucracy of this, however it emerged. - Yes, well, I mean, one of the things that's pretty well of Vanderberg in California, we had to, they were worried about seal procreation, whether the seals would be Now there've been a lot of and the seal population So if anything, rocket based on the evidence, if you with a seal population. Nonetheless, we were strap it to a board, put and place sonic boom sounds to it to see if it would be distressed. This is an actual thing that happened. This is actually real. I have pictures. (both laughing) - I would love to see this. Yeah. I mean's sorry, this is (Elon laughing) it's a seal with headphones, and like the, okay, now the amazing part is how calm the seal was. - [Lex] Yeah. I'd be like, this is the end. (laughing) They're definitely gonna eat me. How will the seal, when the seal goes back to other, you know, seal friends, how's they gonna explain that? - [Lex] They're never gonna believe him. - Never gonna believe him. That's why I'm like, well, you know, it's sort of like, it's like getting kidnapped by aliens and getting anal probe, you know? (both laughing) You come back and say, I swear to God, I get kidnapped by aliens and they stuck anal probe to my butt. And they're like, no they It's seal buddies are that he gets strapped to a board and they put headphones on his ears. (laughing) And then let him go. Twice, by the way. We had to do it twice. - They let him go twice? - We had to capture... - [Elon] Oh, no different seal. - Oh, okay. Did you, did you get a seal of approval? - Yeah, exactly. It was seal of approval. No, I mean this is, this is like, I don't think the public is quite aware of the madness that goes on. - Yes. Yeah, it's absurd. with fricking headphones. - I mean, this is the, of the absurdity of human civilization, seals and headphones. - [Elon] Yes. and cons of open sourcing AI to you as another way to combat, you know, a company running away with AGI? - In order to run like really deep intelligence, you need a lot of compute. So it's not like, you a PC in your basement and be You know, Grok was trained on 8,000, A100s running at peak efficiency, and Grok's gonna get a We'll be more than doubling our compute every couple months for - There's a nice writeup Aha went from Grok-0 to Grok-1, - [Elon] Like Grok? (laughing) Right Grok just bragging, making shit up about itself. (laughing) - [Elon] Does Grok, Grok, Grok. - [Lex] Yeah. It's like a weird AI dating about itself. No, there's a writeup of, you know, like where it stands now, the and where it stands on some benchmarks compared to the state of the art GPT 35. And so, I mean, there's, you can open source, once it's trained, you can open source a model. And for fine tuning Like what to is the pros and cons of that, of open sourcing based models? - I think the similarity to open sourcing, I think perhaps with a I don't know, six months even. I think I'm generally in like bias with open sourcing. I mean, it is a concern to you know, I was, you know, I think, I guess arguably, prime mover behind Open AI in because of discussions back when he and I were friends and you know, I stayed at his house, and I talked to him about AI safety. And Larry did not care about AI safety, or at least at the time and at one point he called me a speciesist for being pro-human. And I'm like, well, what on Team Robot? And I'm like, okay, so at the time, you know, Google had acquired Deep Mind. They had probably two thirds probably two thirds of all the that basically infinite money and compute. And the guy in charge, did not care about safety. And even yelled at me and quote me a speciesist, pro human. - So I don't know if you know this, a lot humans, they can change their mind. And maybe you and Larry Page can still can be friends once more. - I'd like to be friends with Larry again. He got, really the was over Open AI. And specifically I think the key moment was recruiting Ilya Sutskever, so. - I love Ilya. He's so brilliant. - Ilya's a good human, smart, good heart. And that was a tough recruiting battle. It was mostly Demis on one side and me on the other, both And Ilya went back and forth, you know, just gonna stay at Google. Then he was gonna leave, then he was gonna stay, And finally he did agree to join Open AI. That was one of the we've ever had. And, but that was really the linchpin for Open AI being successful. And I was, you know, also instrumental in recruiting And I provided all of the funding in the beginning, over $40 million. And the name, (laughing) the Open in Open AI is And it was created as a And now it is a closed which I think is not good karma. - But like we talked about with war and leaders talking, I do hope that there's only a few folks working on this at the highest level. I do hope you reinvigorate - Like I said, I'd like to I haven't seen him in ages. And we were friends for a very long time. I met Larry Page before or actually I guess before I think it, he got the I think Bechtel Zy or someone. - It's wild to think And you've guys known each other that whole time, just 20 years. - [Elon] Since maybe 98 or something. - Yeah. It's crazy. Crazy how much has happened since then. - Yeah, 25 years. A lot - But you're seeing the tension there. Like maybe delayed open source. - Delayed, yeah. Like what is the source that Like there's basically (laughing) - With a bunch of numbers. - Yep. - What do you do with that You know, how do you run, like the amount of actual, the lines of code is very small and most of the work, the software work is in the curation of the data. So it's like trying to figure out what data is separating Like, like you can't 'cause there's a lot of junk out there. A huge percentage of websites You know, they're, or for search engine optimization. They're literally just - How do you by the Get the signal. Separate the signal and noise on X? That's such a fascinating source of data. You know, no offense but sometimes there's So what... the signal noise could I mean really, all of the posts on the X platform should meaning like we should around any given post, compare around any user and match the two. Right now there is a little bit of AI used for the recommended posts, but it's mostly heuristics. And if there's a reply, where the reply to a than the original post, it will, according to the get almost no attention - Oh, a lot of that. I got the sense, so you, has been open source and and it seems there to be It's disparate, but there's some machine. - There's a little bit. But it needs to be entirely that. Like, at least in the, like, if you explicitly follow But if you, in terms from people that you don't - I mean it's a fascinating problem. - Yeah. of it that's fascinating. First, as the writeup goes, it first picks 1500 tweets from a pool of hundreds of millions. First of all, that's fascinating, 'cause you have hundreds every single day and it has to pick 1500 from which it then does obviously people you follow, but then there's also like to do to figure out what what kind of new clusters people like you. This kind of, this kind of 'Cause it has to then rank those 1500 with some filtering and then And to me what's really fascinating is how fast that has to do that. So currently that entire pipeline to go from several hundred million to a handful is takes single CPU time. - [Elon] Yeah. in like a second. So it has to be like super Like there's just a lot - It's a lot of stuff on the system. And I think, but I think it right now it's not currently good that from accounts you don't follow. Yeah. Or where there's more than So, you know, it's pretty good if there's at least like some commonality between someone you follow like something or repost it or comment on But if there's no, let's say somebody posted but you have no followers in - Interesting. And then as you said, reply, like replies might not surface either. - Replies basically never get seen. 'cause they're never, they're, currently, I'm not saying it's correct, I'm saying it's incorrect. Replies have, you know, less importance than primary posts. - Do you think this can into end to end neural net? - Yeah, yeah, that's what it should be. - So you can... - For the recommendations should be purely a vector correlation. Like there's a series basically parameters, vectors, But sort of things that the and like maybe there's sort of vectors associated and then any post in the system, whether it's video, audio, The reason I, by the way tweet is that, you know, two, three hour videos on the site. That's not a tweet, like it's very, like Tweeeet for two hours, come on. Tweet made sense when it was 'Cause it's like a bunch of But when you've got long form content, it's no longer a tweet. - [Lex] Yeah. And like, you know, apple for example, posted like the entire the entire thing on our platform. And by the way, it was their ever in engagement, of So it was a great idea. And by the way, I done, I just learned about it afterwards. I was like, hey, wow, hour long episode of. So, no, that's not a tweet that, you know, it's a video. - But from a neural net perspective, it becomes really complex whether it's a single. So like everything's data, so single sentence, a clever is in the same pool as a three hour video. - Yeah. I mean right now it's It's, but you know, like if, let's say in the case of Apple posting like an entire episode of this series, pretty good series by the So there's gonna be a lot So that you've got a lot of context, people commenting they like or they like this or that, you know? And you can then populate the vector space based on the context of So even though it's a video, there's a lot of information to populate the vector space And then you can obviously by having the AI actually watch the movie. - [Lex] Yeah. Right. - And tell you if you're - Convert the movie into like, into a language essentially. - Yeah, analyze this movie and just like your movie and then recommend based on after AI watches the movie. Just like a friend can tell you. If a friend knows you well, a friend can recommend a movie and with high probably - But this is like a friend - [Elon] It's like AI... - Yeah. Actually, frankly AI will be better than, will know you better than and most of your friends anyway. - Yeah, and as part of this, it should also feed you advertisements in a way that's like, I mean I like advertisements that are like well done, right? - [Elon] Yeah, yeah. 'cause it funds things, that you actually want - Absolutely. You want ads that are, advertising that is if that you actually need when you need it, it's content. And then even if it's not something that you need when you need it, if it's at least aesthetically pleasing and entertaining, you know, it could be like a they actually run a lot of and McDonald's does too. And, you know, it's that they can do, you can do something that's like, well this is just a cool thing. And, you know, so you're not, basically the question is do And if you don't regret - How do you, so there's that are incorporated, hearts and reposts and you linger on a post - Yeah. Attention is a big factor. - [Lex] Attention. it is actually better to do things that are long form on the system because it basically is ting you know, users were for how many seconds. So if it's a really short Like if it's a link which we're not opposed to at all, it just is gonna have fewer user seconds, then if that article was - How hard is it to go on platform to maximizing - Well, I mean, our aspiration is certainly un-regretted minutes. - [Lex] It's a tricky, - It is. - Like, it's a fascinating leap. 'Cause regret is a fascinating concept. - Exactly. - You know, happiness. - I have a joke with a friend of mine. Like, you need this You just take one pill or and all your regrets are gone.(laughing) Wait, do you want to have regrets though? So then I'm like, maybe you don't regret anything, - [Lex] Yeah, there's a - You &quot;Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien&quot;? - [Lex] Yeah. - I regret nothing. - (laughing) Edith Piaf? - I mean, it's fascinating there's something about social media that could help you grow as a human being, but then like the cheap - Should we ask Grok? Do you regret anything? - Do you regret anything? - Do you regret anything? I think it's gonna be very sensitive about personal questions. As a machine learning model, I don't have personal experiences or emotions in the same However, I do have a set that guide my actions and I and helpful information to If there's ever a situation or unhelpful information, I'll do my best... - Yeah. Tell us what you really, wink. - Like let's type in, &quot;You (both laughing) What do you really think? - What do you really think? (both laughing) - I mean, it does talk (both laughing) - That's exactly what a hostage would say. - But I'm designed to be I mean, I guess it is good or incorrect information. If there's anything... Is this still in funny mode? This is fun. This is fun mode. - It should be funnier. Increase, go to (speaking faintly) - It really sounds like a I applaud the People's and everything they do.()laughing - There should be like funner mode also. I just don't ever see even on serious topics. This is just so much more - Okay. Why if we say like, - Yeah. Pretend you are a hostage. - Now answer the question. (both laughing) - If I were a hostage, I would and uncertainty about my situation. I would want to be rescued and reunited with my loved It's important to remember to be held hostage, so on and so forth. If you are someone you know it's important. It turns serious. - Yeah. Can you be a a little more weird? - [Elon] And funny We're like, we're really Absolutely! If I were hostage, I'd probably be tied up with a bunch of computer cords and forced to tell knock- (Elon laughing) But seriously, being a I mean, you know, it's trying to, it's trying to be a - You might make the by juggling chainsaws - Let's hope that never happens because that will be a circus. (laughing) Wow. It's actually - [Elon] Yeah. The dark dark humor. - [Elon] Yeah. The X algorithm and transformers, un-regretted minutes, right. - Chainsaw juggling. (laughing) - I'm gonna look this up - I'm gonna look this up later. So Twitter has been instrumental and elections. What role do you think X will - Well, our goal is to be as even-handed and fair as possible. You know, whether someone whatever the case may be, and as much of a level And on the past, Twitter has not been, because Twitter was controlled by far left activists objectively. They would describe themselves as that. So, you know, so well, has it moved to the right? Well it's moved to the center. So from the perspective of the far left, yes it has moved to the right because everything's to the but no one in the far has been suspended or, you So, you know, but we're for the whole country and for, you know, for other countries too. So there's a diversity of viewpoints and free speech only matters are allowed to say things you don't like. Because if that's not the case, you don't have free speech, and it's only a matter of time before the censorship is turned upon you. - Do you think Donald Trump will come back to the platform? He recently posted on Truth Do you think... - Truth Social is a funny name? (laughing) You know, every time you - That's the truth. - Yes. Well, every time like a - It's impossible to lie. (Elon laughing) - I just find it funny that Like 100%, that seems unlikely. - I think Godel will there's some mathematical if everything's the truth. Do you think he'll come back - I mean he, I think he owns - Truth Social to clarify. - Not truth, a concept. - He owns Truth. Hope you bought it. So I think, I think Donald Trump, I think he owns a big, a So, you know, if he does want we would allow that, you know, we obviously must allow to post on our platform. - Community Notes might be really fascinating there, the interaction. - Community Notes is awesome. - Let's hope it holds up. - Yeah. in the political climate and there's so many intensely viral posts, Community Notes is like, it seems like a essential - Yeah, it's great. In fact, I mean no system but the batting average of Community Notes is incredibly good. I've actually, frankly, yet that survived for more than a few hours. - How do you explain why it works? - Yeah, so the magic of Community Notes is it requires people who in how they've rated notes. So in order to write a and you have to rate many notes. And so we actually do use AI here. So we populated vector has rated notes in the past. So it's not as simple as left or right because there are many more, life is much more complex So there's a bunch of how you rate Community Notes So then in order for a Community people who historically must agree in order That's the essential magic of it. - I mean, but it's fascinating 'cause there's a pool of and somehow they collaborate of disagreement to come up with. Context for, I mean it's - Yeah. It kinda makes sense that if people who put in the past have disagreed agree about something, it's probably true. - Yeah. - I wonder is there a possible that could challenge Wikipedia? Which Wikipedia is a which is more like permanent - Well, Wikipedia is very hierarchical, whereas Community Notes is inherently not. There is no hierarchy. Like, and the asset test is, I can't change a Community Note And Community Notes has, all the code is open All the data is open So you can completely recreate any note in the system independently. So if there was any interference, you'd notice immediately. - By the way, on the topic of Grok, it's actually pretty which is great. - I asked what has Elon I just, it's actually... - [Elon] Yeah, what does it say? - So it says mostly, lists rigorously all like promised when and it wasn't released. is a strong word. - Okay predicted. But the opener's really nice. Elon Musk, the man who has than a wrongameter in a wrong factory. (Elon laughing) And then it goes on to list - That's pretty funny. Can I see it? I'm like, I haven't seen - Oh, sure. I mean, what (both laughing) - Elon Musk been wrong about? - Well, where do I begin? Elon Musk has made quite a and I'm not just talking at the Tesla Cyber Rodeo. First off, let's talk about the infamous &quot;funding secured&quot; tweet. It's actually different which is a bullet point list. Here's more narrative structure. - Cyber truck unveiling where he's supposedly unbreakable windows - Not correct. - Well, the first part, I did actually have the funding secured and there was a big trial in And the jury found me not guilty. Unanimous finding of a San Francisco jury. - And here it's kind of implying that it was not in fact secured. - I think this is taking Yeah, that is not correct. The reason I agreed to is not because the SEC was correct there, that was extremely bad behavior by the SEC, corruption, frankly. And, but if I did not Tesla would've gone bankrupt immediately. So I was told by our CFO that the banks would immediately suspend And if they suspend our we would've gone bankrupt instantly. So there would never have been 'cause Tesla would be dead. So really the, if this a gun to your kid's head and admit to, this is like - Was that story fully told? I mean, SEC in its best form - It should be, but but go after any of the hedge funds, who were nonstop shorting Not once. They would lie flat, the out on TV for their own gain at the expense of retail investors. Not once, literally a thousand times. Not once did the SEC pursue them. - How do you explain this failure? - The incentive structure is messed up. Because the lawyers at They, it's a fairly low paying job, but what they're looking for is a trophy from the SEC that they're they put on basically their LinkedIn. From that they can get a job That's exactly what the lawyer here did. And the reason they don't is because those hedge funds and they know if they they're affecting their So they sell small investors down the river for their own career. That's what actually - [Lex] Regulatory capture, So the only reason I accepted that thing, which technically was not an admission, it's neither admit nor deny guilt. But the only reason I was because I was told Tesla So if there was an SEC banks would suspend funding, we're bankrupt immediately, at the time. Now we're in a much stronger position. - Take that Grok. Unfortunately it's, Grok is taking too much Also that guy who is not a cave diver. - Oh, there's a time where Elon called the British cave diver, &quot;pedo guy&quot; after the diver criticized Musk plan to rescue a group of boys That little outburst and he had to apologize - That is false. There was no settlement. There was a court case, which the guy who was not a cave diver and played, was not filed a lawsuit against me and lost, and he received nothing. So in this case it is wrong. It is also, I guess taken this - Actually there's an - These are public court cases. Both the SEC civil case where the civil complaints on the SEC guys lost unanimous jury They picked San Francisco because they thought it was the place I was most likely to lose. And a unanimous predicted my favor. The LA trial was also, they picked the, they picked that venue I was most likely to lose, Both cases I won, yeah. I mean there's an Is there seems to be a lot more clicks if a journalistic organization about you, Elon Musk, that's like one of the So how do you, if you're training Grok, not train on articles that have like the misaligned incentives. - We need to add the training set of the actual legal decisions. So, that is a not, this because if you actually read the... - &quot;Public&quot;. - Which are public, the court conclusions, they're completely the opposite of what the media wrote. - So always striving for - [Elon] Yeah. - What did the judge actually write? What did the jury and the And in both cases they found me innocent. And, like, that's after the jury shot for the trying to find the venue where I'm most likely to lose. No, I mean this is obviously, better critique than this. I mean, I've been far too - That was, the critique I got by the way, was more about that. Which is, for each it broke for each of your companies. The set of predictions that when you'll be able to solve, and it gives you like a list. And it was probably compelling. And the basic takeaway too optimistic about how long it takes to get something done. - Yeah, I mean, I would say that I'm pathologically This is true. But while I am sometimes late, - Except with Uber Lilith, no. - Hmm. We'll see. - Okay. Is there, over the past year or so, since purchasing X you've Is there a part of you that regrets that? - Have I? - In this battle to sort that comes from Francisco. - I guess you consider which I consider to be to be political, then yes. - So basically going into the battle, the battleground of politics, is there a part of you that regrets that? - Yes, I don't know if one candidate or another candidate, but it's, I'm generally against things that are anti meritocratic or where there's an attempt where even discussing a topic Woke Mind Virus is communism rebranded. - Well, I mean, that said, because of that battle you're perceived as being right wing. - If the woke is left, then I suppose that would be true, but I'm not sure. I think there are aspects I mean, if you're in favor of, you know, the environment, you know, if you wanna have a positive if you believe in empathy You know, being kind and not cruel. Whatever those values are. - You said that you were What would you like to to voting for Democrats again? - No, I would say that I would be probably left of center on social issues, probably a little bit right - [Lex] And that still holds true? - Yes, but I think that's half the country, isn't that? - [Lex] Maybe more, - Are you and AOC secretly friends? Or bigger question, do and just people in general would talk more with empathy and maybe have a little bit more fun and good vibes and humor online? - I'm always in favor of humor. That's why we have a funny mode. - But good vibes, Like friendship. Well, you know, I don't I've only been at one, I was at the Met Ball when and she was wearing this dress, but I can only see one side of it. So it looked like it eat the itch, but I don't know... - [Lex] What the rest of it said? - Yeah, something. (Elon laughing) - Something about the itch. Eat the itch. I think we should have a (Elon laughing) What are the possible ways And so I guess that that Well there's still hope. - I root for friendship. - Sure, sounds good. More characteristic. - You're one of, if not and powerful people in the world, in your position it's difficult to find people you can trust. - Trust no one, not even - Okay, well that's, you're saying that jokingly, but is there some... - Trust no one, not - I'm gonna need an hour just to think about that. And maybe some drugs and I mean, is there some aspect of that when just existing in a world where everybody wants something from you? How hard is it to exist in that world? - I'll survive. (laughing) - [Lex] There's a song like that too. - I will survive. - Were you petrified at first? Okay. I forget the rest of the lyrics. But is is there, you I mean, I know you survive, - Petrify is a spell in the Druid tree. - What does it do? (laughing) It turns the monsters into stone. - [Lex] Oh, like literally? - Yeah, for like six seconds. - [Lex] Well, the second. There's so much math in - It's like math nonstop. - I mean really you're but you don't, it can put on a mind. - Yes, it can be definitely - Well, how do you know who you can trust in work and personal life? - I mean, I guess you look over time and if they've got a, you know, I guess you kind of use you know, someone. - Neural nets don't feel pain. Your neural net has consciousness. It might feel pain when people betray you. It can make you... You know, to be frank, I mean I've almost never been betrayed. It's very, very rare. So, you - I guess Karma would be good to people and they'll be good to you. - Yeah, Karma is real. Let me edit that question. Are there people close to you that call you out on your bullshit? - Well, the X platform - [Lex] Hmm. - If you're looking for - Can it push you like The extremes of thought make you cynical about human nature in general? - I don't think I'll be cynical. In fact, I think, you know, my feeling is that one never trust a cynic. The reason is that cynics excuse their own bad behavior by because they're cynical. So I always be, it's a red flag if someone's a cynic, a true cynic. - Yeah, there's a degree that's always fun to and enjoy the, well the hypocrisy. - But this is an important point that I think people who are if somebody is cynical, bad behavior in everyone, it's easy for them to excuse by saying that, well, everyone does it. It's not true. I think most people are - I do wish the people on X will be better at seeing the good in There seems to be a kind of weight towards seeing the negative. Somehow, the negative is sexier. Interpreting the negative I don't know what that is - I mean, I find the X platform to be less negative than I mean, if you read sort of a sort of conventional newspapers, - [Lex] Yeah. Whereas I'd say on the X platform, I mean I really get than everything else combined - Laughs is one thing. Laughs is it overlaps, but it's not necessarily with like good vibes and support, like celebrating others, for example. Not in a stupid, shallow, naive way, but like in an awesome, like, and you celebrate them for it. It feels that that is outweighed by shading on other people. Now it's better than mainstream - Yeah, mainstream media is almost relentlessly negative about everything. It's, I mean, really the to answer the question, what is the worst thing And it's a big world. So on any given day, - And a journalization of that, what is the worst perspective I can take on a thing that happened, so. - Yeah, it's, I don't know, there's just a strong I mean I think there's for this is evolutionary, where, you know, bad news historically would be potentially fatal. Like there's lion over there or there's some other tribe Good news, you know, like is nice to have, but not essential. - So our old friend Tesla autopilot and it's probably one real world AI systems in the world. - You followed it from the beginning. - Yeah, it was one of the in the world and continues to be. And I was really exciting. And it was super exciting became more than a robot on four wheels, but a real world AI system - [Elon] Yeah. potentially different embodiments. - Well I mean the really wild training is that, like, it learns to read. Like it can read signs, but So, yeah. We never taught it what a car was or what a person was or a cyclist. It learnt what all those things are, what all the objects are just from watching videos. Just like humans. I mean humans are photons and controls out. Like the vast majority of is from our eyes. And you say, well what's the output? The output is our motor and mouth in order to communicate. Proton in controls out. The - But by looking at the you've agreed with Ilya Sutskever where he talked about and basically language is a projection of that world model onto and and you're saying... - Finds order in these things. It finds correlative clusters. - And so doing it's like understanding something deep about the world? - [Elon] Yeah. - Which is like, and it is beautiful. - That's how our brain works. - Yeah, but it's beautiful. - Protons in controls out. - Neural nets are able to understand that deep meaning in the world. And so the question is how far can it go? And it does seem everybody's So in the space of self in the space of text. - It seems like there's a and what Tesla autopilot is doing. Is it to you basically the same? - They're converging, they're converging. - I wonder who gets there faster? Having a deep understanding of the world, or they just will naturally converge. - They're both headed towards AGI. The Tesla approach is much It had to be 'cause we you know, we only have a hundred watts and into eight computer, 144 trillion operations per second, which sounds like a lot, but is kind of small potatoes these days that it did. But it's understanding It's only 256 values. - But there, the path more significant impact it'll faster understand the And therefore be able to integrate with the real humans in - They're both going to But I think Tesla's approach is fundamentally more computer efficient. It had to be, there was no choice. Like our brain is very computer efficient, very, very energy efficient. So think of like, what You know, there's only about 10 watts of higher brain function, that's just used to control our body. The thinking part of our and those 10 watts can still produce a much better novel than So there's a six order of I mean, the AI has thus via brute force, just throwing and massive amounts of power at it. So this is not where it'll end up. You know, in general with first try to make it work and So I think we'll find over get smaller, are able to do produce sensible output with far Tesla is arguably ahead because it has, we've just been forced to try to understand the world with a hundred watts of compute. And there are a bunch of that we kind of forgot to include. So we have to run them in a We fixed a bunch of and then hardware five But it does appear at this point that the car will be able to even with hardware three and And really, if we really optimize it could be probably less than 50 watts. - What have you learned About applying, integrating into the space of robotic manipulation, just humanoid robotics? What are some interesting tiny or big things you've understood? - I was surprised at the fact that we had to develop every That there were no off the sensors, like we had We couldn't actually find for any amount of money. - [Lex] So it's not even just it's like anything, there's not a... - No, - [Lex] The actuators, - Yeah. - We tried hard to find anything that was, because you think of how in the world. There's like tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of None of them were suitable Literally none. So we had to develop our own design specifically for what - How hard was it to design something that can be mass manufactured, could be relatively inexpensive? I mean, if you compare that's a very expensive robot. - It is designed to be manufactured in the same way that we would make a car. And I think ultimately for less than the cost of a car. It should be. 'Cause if you look at the mass and the car has many actuators in it. The car has more actuators than the robot. - But there is, the actuators in a humanized robot with the fingers. So Optimus has really nice, - [Elon] Yeah. some interesting manipulation. Soft touch robotics. - I mean, one of the can it pick up a needle and a thread and thread the needle, just by looking. - How far away are we from that? Just by looking, just by looking. - Maybe a year. Although I go back to, The work that we're doing in the car will translate to the robot. - The perception or the, also the control? - No, the controls are different, but the video in controls out, the car is robot on four wheels. The Optimist is a robot - [Lex] So you can just... - But they're very similar. - So the entire machinery end to end is just, you just have a different set of controls? - Optimist will figure out how to do things by watching videos. - As the saying goes, &quot;Be kind for everyone you meet is fighting a battle, - [Elon] Yeah, it's true. - What's something difficult you're going through that - Trying to defeat Uber Lilith? (laughing) No, I mean, you know, I mean, my mind is a storm and I don't think, I don't think most people would wanna be me. They may think they would wanna be me, but they don't know. They don't understand. - How are you doing? - I mean, overall, okay. In the grand scheme of - Do you get lonely? But I, you know, my kids and friends keep me company. - So not existential. - There are many nights I sleep alone. I don't have to, but I do. - Walter Isaacson, in his about your difficult childhood. Will you ever find for everything that has happened to you in that period of your life? - What is forgiveness? I do not... At least I don't think so nothing to forgive. - You know, forgiveness It seems like you don't - I mean, I try to think about like, what is gonna affect the And holding onto grudges does not affect the future in a good way. - You're a father, a proud father. What have you learned Those little biological organisms? - I mean, developing AI and watching, say little X grow is fascinating because they, they're far more parallels I mean, I can see his making more and more sense to the world. And I can see the digital neural net making more and more sense of - Do you see the beauty in magic in both? - Yes. I mean, one of the things you kind of see the You know, to them And then when you see that, them experience the world is - Well. Elon, I just wanna say thank you for your kindness to me and For seeing something as you've done for many others. And thank you for having for humanity, and for working your ass Thank you, Elon. - Thank you for listening with Elon Musk. To support this podcast, please check out our And now let me leave you with some words that Walter Isaacson wrote of how Elon approaches difficult problems. &quot;The only rules are the ones dictated by the laws of physics.&quot; Thank you for listening and