Hey everyone, we're back with more of this Institute, the Christian propaganda mill whose We've gone through a lot of the main figures so let's continue by exposing Jonathan Wells. Wells got a PhD in religious studies in 1986, in 1994, and he is one of the very few DI of legitimate scientific publications. But like any other such apologist, this only and bolster his anti-science rhetoric. His bizarre religious beliefs are derived which he describes in this blog post. In another similar post he openly admits that the field of biology because he thinks god to destroying Darwinism. And of course by Darwinism he actually means evolution, which represents the obvious refutation in. So he entered a PhD program and "prepared after which he joined Discovery Institute. Of course decades later, the DI presents him though the fact that he entered science with everything he says completely irrelevant. Just like his fellow frauds, Wells has written his 2000 book Icons of Evolution, which was of science. This pile of garbage was scathingly reviewed for Science Education. Linked below, this review takes over 50 pages but to give you a taste, one of the subchapters tree trunks". Of course he is trying to refute the very involving peppered moths changing color over blending in with trees, simply by claiming Notably, population geneticist Michael Majerus own original book on the subject, where he rest on tree trunks, and his posthumously confirm that. So with Wells it's clearly empirical science Now that you have an idea of the brilliance what he's been up to more recently. First, let's look at "Zombie Science: of Life." The scientific establishment typically portrays Something we can't question. All living things are related through common But even in 2000 there were empirical problems And now 17 years later, the problems have For example, in 2000 it was hoped that by on, we could construct a tree of life that There can only be one true tree, if in fact And yet the more molecules that have been up in the tree of life. So the molecules don't fit each other in You get different trees depending on what Plenty to unpack already. The tree of life is a conclusion based on ontogeny, paleontology, and more recently To pretend otherwise is just pure science Wells states right before this section that based on their morphological traits. All birds have feathers; birds and mammals larger clade Vertebrata; all vertebrates are part of the even larger clade Animalia, and This is a nested hierarchy where organisms Carolus Linnaeus recognized this when he developed but he had no explanation for why this pattern Darwin provided the mechanism for this pattern The elegance and consistency of the explanation irrefutable. So what does he do? He lies. Like all creationists, he just invents the problems with the tree of life. Let's go over one example that demolishes A 1992 experiment by David Hillis et al. demonstrated uncover actual organismal histories. They did this by making a known phylogeny From a common stock, the bacteriophage populations that they ended up with 9 different taxa with They also propagated these bacteriophages to increase the mutation rate, resulting in taxa. Regarding the data used to infer the phylogeny, These are enzymes that recognise specific When these are present, the endonuclease cleaves The presence of restriction can be determined described in the biology series. Samples of DNA which were cut by endonucleases charge. Smaller fragments of DNA are able to move So based on the number and positions of the and absence of restriction sites can be inferred. As to why this is relevant, remember that Restriction sites can be gained or lost due So the presence and absence of these restrictions And that's exactly what they did. Next, they used 5 different methods of phylogenetic taxa based on the restriction site data. All 5 methods were able to accurately predict number, but for just 9 taxa there are 135,135 Guessing the correct tree by chance is extremely methods. This is precisely the type of empiricism that they have no ability to account for these baseless beliefs in this kind of a rigorously That's because it's the difference between To get more specific, what Wells means by is going to return the same phylogeny. This is extremely well-known in biology, and For one thing, separate populations, sometimes and share genes. This is called "introgression". Imagine a population of polar bears. One day a polar bear breeds with a brown bear, end up in the offspring. From there, some of those brown bear alleles population. In other words, the alleles spread through them. Now, if a geneticist comes along and sequences the geneticist will find that the vast majority but not all of them. Logically then, we can infer that those foreign via introgression from another population. So there is nothing inconsistent here at all. Introgression among eukaryotic organisms tends a species or closely related species, so this trying to make it out. As for prokaryotic organisms, horizontal gene is much more common, allowing genetic exchange thus something that one might call an "inconsistency" But again, this is a completely natural and While HGT can sometimes make prokaryotic phylogenies exhibit a nested hierarchical distribution This isn't so much of a problem for evolution creationists like Wells either don't understand, In this particular instance it is most likely complete gibberish. He says that "The molecules don't fit This is literally meaningless. The genetic data that all mammals are more to any other organisms is incontrovertible. Then the characteristics that unite all mammals, inner ear bones, are found ONLY in mammals, with molecules, no matter what molecules he nucleic acids, or otherwise. Birds are all more closely related to each and have a unique set of morphological characteristics. So do amphibians. So do sharks. When you compare the anatomy and genes of birds are most closely related, then amphibians, Birds and mammals share more characteristics and then birds, mammals, and amphibians share any of them share with sharks. That is precisely what we expect based on There is nothing anomalous regarding anatomy. There is nothing anomalous regarding molecules. There simply is nothing inconsistent, period. The kinds of inconsistencies he is describing, were found to be very closely related phylogenetically Let's say that two species of frogs had and totally unrelated sets of enzymes. Now that would be pretty tough for evolution How could all of the enzymes operating in between two species that must be so closely That's the sort of thing that would give no surprise that it's completely and utterly Because the tree of life is factually accurate. All the inconsistencies they refer to are or flat out lies. Something that's happened fairly recently genes. These are stretches of DNA that are found Well from the viewpoint of evolutionary theory, Because all genes supposedly descended from These are the kinds of statements that allow dishonest. Nobody with a PhD in any area of biology would Let's make something very clear. Nobody believes that all genes or all proteins Genetic regions called promoters can be moved that has no known function, and then that into mRNA, which is then translated into an Brand new gene, brand new protein, as the which has been observed countless times. Any undergraduate biology student knows this, genes, in several of the videos in this series, DI member chronically ignores. Second, orphan genes exist at all levels of Orphan genes can be found in a single species family, or a single family within an order, That's why he says "group" instead of He's trying to make it sound like these and thus make it seem like they must be the But what is the logical conclusion of this Is the implication that every single species Not even the other idiots at the DI propose So why is Wells suggesting it? And yet the more we study organisms, the more They've been found in every organism whose And they don't give you a tree of life. Because they don't trace back to anything So nowadays, when biologists try to construct toss out the orphan genes. They just ignore them. It's a process that's been referred to data you want to keep, and you throw out the And that's what's going on here. Again, he is just blatantly lying. Nobody throws out anything or cherry picks Orphan genes are specifically fantastic evidence Why else would all the individuals in a species ancestor? Why else would all the species in a genus ancestor? Why else would all the genera in a family ancestor? And so on. An orphan gene is the result of a singular offspring from that point forward. Unique genetic markers like orphan genes are because the alternative is that all the members characteristic with no explanation. Just to show how big of a lie Wells is telling Google Scholar and get thousands of citations Just think about it, how can one even determine place them in a phylogenetic context? You have to compare the genomes of different share and which ones they don't. This is well understood on the genetic level it isn't because he wants to believe that by his imaginary deity, so he has to poke system totally incompatible with reality. Now let's move on to the next video, "Jonathan - Science Uprising Expert Interviews." Well science can mean testing hypotheses by It's a search for the truth. That's the science I love. But there is another kind of science that finding materialistic explanations for everything. That's materialistic science, not empirical For empirical science that evidence matters For materialistic science, the story matters So Wells kicks this one off by regurgitating spews. The product of countless round table sessions that will manipulate people into denying science. There is "empirical science" and there Totally different! This is the most laughably idiotic narrative They want the viewer to believe that scientists existence of supernatural things, and that empirical, as though finding rigorous physical other than empirically. Empiricism refers to knowledge that is gained tasting, smelling, or touching. Most of science is empirical. After all, how could science test a hypothesis experienced with any of our senses? Examining geological strata, collecting fossils, sequencing genomes and comparing their alignments, How is evolutionary biology anything but empirical? Wells would be totally unable to answer that knowing what evolutionary biologists do, or That's how he can scare them into equating In reality, there are plenty of religious who believe in souls and deities, and simply such beliefs, since they are not based on The DI are not such people. They're frauds who deny science to serve Empirical science is specifically what makes Empirical science is what allowed us to figure system, that pathogens cause disease, and tries to put those two terms at odds with When Darwin wrote his Origin of Species in And it was basically an argument against creation picture of evolution. Unguided natural processes explain everything. So that's the story, Darwin didn't have He basically just had the argument. And ever since then, the evidence has been When in fact, the story comes first. More of the same bullshit. Wells needs to pretend that evolutionary biology In actuality, evolution is not an argument Evolution is a description of the various One is free to believe that a god exists who Christians around the world do. Elucidating the mechanisms behind natural Wells just has to pretend that science he According to Darwin's theory, a living thing pretty much as human children resemble their So if in fact the story of evolution is true, of transitional fossils linking the old forms And we don't see that. We don't see that anywhere in the fossil Another one of their favorite lies. There are countless transitional fossils. We covered many of them earlier in the series and Gunter Bechly. Creationists can whine about a lack of transitional the fossil record is immaculately aligned and this alignment only gets stronger every That's why Wells just lies and moves on, and never check for themselves. When I look at an artistic depiction of Neanderthal, something in the National Enquirer. You know, a tabloid at the newsstand. Some people, experts, think that if I were be able to tell it from a modern human being. Others think it was more like the caveman The truth is, we don't know. It's all very imaginative. Again, this is a lie, our reconstructions But much more importantly, who cares what The fact that Neanderthals and Denisovans based on some artist's renderings. It's based on genomic data from all three The fact that birds nest within Dinosauria birds and non-avian dinosaurs share in common, and mesotarsal ankle joint. The fact that early whales like Pakicetus mammals and modern whales is based on their even-hoofed mammals and an involucrum that The fact that Eusthenopteron, Panderichthys, all living tetrapods is based on them having living tetrapods. Wells is indistinguishable from a preacher incredulity that ignore literally the entire It makes you wonder, what good is that PhD Probably the most famous ape to human fossil Stood, I dunno, maybe three or four feet tall. As I understand it, the entire skeleton was There's still some controversy over whether But the main point for me, as a biologist, a creature like that could transform into Chimps are chimps. Gorillas are gorillas. There's no evidence for their transformation Another tactic straight from the creationist First, by calling it an "ape to human" even understand that humans are apes, so he But the rest is just the typical script. Lie about the specimen, and pretend it was We talked about this at great length in the we know for a fact that Lucy, the Australopithecus Her pelvis, knees, feet, and foramen magnum over knuckle-walking. And again, paleoanthropologists have hundreds but other species of Australopithecus. We know the genus as a whole was bipedal. There is nothing controversial here. Any anthropologist would laugh right in Wells's And when he says he doesn't know how Lucy is he talking about? We have exactly the same bones in the same The only difference is proportion. Our face is less prognathic, our braincase Chimps are chimps! Yeah, and Lucy wasn't a chimp. The plethora of intermediate species that and other extant apes display a slow gradient You have to be a moron not to see it. Every year or two, we see some headline about between apes and humans. And the track record is not good for these They sort of fall by the wayside soon after Most recently, a bunch of bones were found ancestors. Most experts now don't believe that, but next year for some other fossil find. And it's all just a story in need of evidence. Yes, Jon! The entire field of anthopology is "hype". It's not just science you never learned First, yes, it's dumb that popular media since this doesn't really mean anything. It's not a scientific term. And yes, the popular media loves to sensationalize money. If you want to actually learn about science, doesn't sensationalize the data. But to get more specific, Wells is referring do have an odd mix of primitive and derived While they aren't considered our direct Homo erectus, which has been considered to Why didn't Wells say anything about Homo Or any of the other hominid species we know to our species? Just pretend it's all based on a few bones science! That's creationism for you. Not too long ago a fossil was found that was And the expectation was that it would look Well it turned out not to look chimpanzee-like And so, the initial hype put it out there But when the actual evidence came in and was true. So there's a strong bias here to put the as though they looked like they belong there, don't. It's impossible to tell what Wells is referring out of his ass. The Lucy specimen is 3.2 million years old, as 4.5 million years ago, while the first years ago. Let's be charitable and assume he means was found predating Lucy, which also is fine. Indeed, Australopithecus garhi is more derived Lucy. Evolution isn't a linear process. It branches. The fact that an older species overlaps in argument against evolution than the fact that with you. Wells is relying on a basic misunderstanding And it gets a little tiresome hearing him of science is just a story, when he is literally referencing any scientific literature. A serious critique of science refers to actual He's just sitting in a chair and lying to It's profoundly transparent. Anyway, let's move on to one last video: Fossil Finds Only Confuse Human Origins." When I published Icons of Evolution in 2000, of an ape-like creature gradually morphing a modern human being. It's perhaps the most powerful icon of all. It touches us most directly in the sense that And it's basically an imaginative drawing Namely that we morphed into our modern form Funny how a guy with credentials in cell biology Anyway, this time he's acting like he's isn't a precisely accurate representation The picture was in a book published in 1965 The picture demonstrates a direct line of known for a long time that this isn't how This idea is more in line with orthogenesis, the process as goal-oriented. In reality, evolution is blind. Natural selection has no goal and only acts In short, this is just a drawing. He pretends a drawing represents the totality have zero knowledge, and will believe him. Probably the funniest example of these new in 2009, accompanied by a lot of hype, as It was called the eighth wonder of the world, A two hour documentary was produced before So the hype was guaranteed to hit bigtime. Within a year the thing had been discredited. It turned out to be a lemur, not an ancestor More lies. Ida is a specimen of Darwinius masillae from years ago. While she was hyped up by the media, which a lemur." Originally, Ida was thought to be a primitive tarsiers, New and Old World monkeys, and apes. But she was then moved to the next closest Evolution predicts that lineages become more in time, and this is no exception. So it's not surprising in the slightest member of one clade when she was then found Ida is a primitive strepsirhine, the clade or galagos. Ida herself is primitive with respect to all lemur" than she is "just a bushbaby." Ida is transitional between extant strepsirhines Wells is just lying, as usual. The other fossils that have been reported hyped up, and not so discredited. But in any case, it seems that every discovery As in fact, evolutionary biologists predicted So instead of ending up with a nice clean creature, whatever, to a modern human being, than they were complicated before. So we still don't know really what human at all. You're probably seeing a trend by now. Every video with Wells is just him ignoring saying "nuh uh". He just says new discoveries make things worse, Thousands of specimens collected over a century explain all the primates we see today. Of course he will never provide any citations, scientific literature, because his audience They want to be told a story. That's what Wells is here to do. Tell a story of the corrupt materialist scientists. This requires ignoring literally all scientific concepts. Wells unabashedly promotes the idea that evolution and not a branching tree, despite constantly His stupidity even contradicts his own stupidity. The discovery of missing links is really quite The fact is, there's no way to link fossils False. Many foraminifera, diatoms, and radiolarians Some vertebrates in the fossil record do too. One good example is Myotragus balearicus. This is a species of goat that lived solely Because it lived in just one place, we can descended from the earlier Myotragus. Another example would be North American chasmosaurines millions of years. Sometimes it's more complicated than this, But as usual Wells just says "nuh uh" So the term "missing link" is very misleading. The reason you can't do that is, just imagine buried in the ground. Unless you have identifying marks or written can't tell whether they're related to So when you dig up two fossils on two different and thousands of miles apart, and not even one is related to the other? You can't. And actually, evolutionary biologists have You cannot link fossils. The fossils themselves do not provide the This is a profoundly stupid argument. He is saying we can't know if two human of all, how related? All humans are related. Even young earth creationists believe this. We can't know if they are immediately related? So what? We know they are of the same species. Unless Wells is willing to defend the idea separate creation events, this is a totally If he is pretending that humans don't all with even young earth creationists. How would we be able to tell what amount of populations of humans into distinct creations? The fact is that this argument is arbitrary Not only is there no amount of DNA that defines created, there is no amount of DNA that defines Or separate genera, or families, or orders, These are labels that we provide. Support for evolution comes from the morphology strata, and all sorts of other data that Wells He is operating from a level of biological illiterate preacher. Because in the end, that is the part he is He is selling the idea that speciation doesn't Everything on Earth was created precisely Something that is even more idiotic than what But at any rate, we can stop here. Combing through more videos to hear him repeat idiotic lies that are told by Meyer and Luskin just be overkill. They all say the same exact things. They either ignore or distort all the relevant Much of what we went over here is just a repeat have unique talking points. Wells is just another garden variety apologist are nothing more than a stain on those institutions. When the DI pretends that their preachers up god, it's a smokescreen. People like Wells publicly admit that they crusade. The agenda is blatantly obvious even when to anyone who has watched any installment So that's it for Jonathan Wells, another ever greater irrelevance, his holy crusade Believe it or not, we still have a few more you next time.