These are the top seven over-the-counter They're all natural, and you can use them We're starting now. Peripheral neuropathy is so common it's nerve pain, numbness, burning, tingling, aching down to your feet, neuropathy leads to chronic pain Lack of sensation, weakness, poor balance, Do you get a lot of pain When you're walking on stairs? That could be from apathy. So take a look at the blood vessels They start to disappear. Then the nerves get shriveled. They get weak. So there's two components to this. The nerves themselves get weaker. They're less coded. The signal can't travel as well. But you also have poor blood flow. So when patients come to see us in clinic, and their nerve sensation. We can do this And there is easy procedures We can get the nerve pain at least 75% better and more functional, And same thing with blood flow. We can get it better. while peripheral neuropathy it can significantly destroy and rapidly it is associated It can lead to complications There are key points, and information about end stage neuropathy When you first develop you start with some weakness, And then as a couple years go by, that pain and numbness increase, And your hands, your feet, your legs, then you develop constant pain, You might consider medication. It affects your sleep, But then you're just weaker. You don't want to get up off the couch So the most common symptoms for burning, tingling, sensitivity to touch. Most people need creams, when their feet are just throbbing I cannot fall asleep. Everything's aching. Everything's burning. Now there's a couple dangerous causes So, for example, you might have vascular disease, But there's so many other things like age, There's just so many different causes. If you haven't been diagnosed, I used to do a lot more nerve graft this one's the diabetic peripheral Over the next ten years, $3 billion to $5.3 billion. So a lot of money is being spent on just surgical treatment The rates are going up dramatically. I've seen a study in nature recently the population can expect to develop peripheral So this is very important to address. if you are diagnosed and you're already working with doctors, these are great Now, before you even start this list, and online There's a great deals and great discounts. I keep an updated list of my top and creams that can safely start but I'm going to go over my top These are things that work really Statistically priced reviews, prices. I do all the heavy lifting for you. So let's start with number seven. And the good news is There are so many great options. I would say about 75% of patients that So I say 75% of people get about 75% Pain creams are a great option, vitamins, diagnosis of conditions, So peripheral neuropathy and chronic Check out all the recommended videos Number seven gold This is Menthol and Pramac seen. These are pretty cheap Although it might go up with inflation Get out there on November But users report moderate relief It is less effective and it provides Is definitely worth trying. I would say if you have severe pain, But if it's numb, tingling, aching It works really well, but So menthol. There's a lot of great menthol So for example, Many patients use I personally love train mental It's very well studied. It works on receptors sensation, heat and mechanical pain. So give it a try. It can make a huge difference Number six capsaicin based creams, I'm not going to tell you pepper extract. You can get these for like 10 to $20. It's a lotion with capsaicin. So that's the chili pepper extract. The way it works is it kind of burns And your herbs say, Let's just ignore it. And like, in a minute, Some people love this. Some people, Some people it does not work great. Some people it can work amazingly well. Some people it doesn't do anything at all. Depends kind of how bad Definitely worth trying. Just don't get it in private areas. Don't rub it in the wrong place. It can sometimes cause some burning to Initially. It does cause a burning sensation, Your body knows to ignore it. Capsaicin is an old one, but a good one. It's low cost and can be very effective. Just be careful Number five Asper cream with lighter cane. So lighter cane is the same thing to numb it up. The thing with lighter cane is Spray your fingers, your toes. There's Light lighter cane completely numbs it. That makes the nerve stop working. So the active ingredient is lighter This can work extremely well. But the trick is you got to fall asleep So that's really the trick. But I've had really positive reviews. This does provide almost complete numbing, It does not get to the root cause of it, It's a non-greasy formula, and you got to use a lot of it, Light. It just shuts your nerves off. It doesn't last forever, relief, potentially, Number four blue emu pain relief cream. So this is like 20 bucks for four ounces. It has emu oil aloe vera. So aloe vera can be very good This is one of the top supplements and glucosamine that can work really well. So MSM glucosamine So while blue Emu pain relief cream You can take MSM glucosamine in supplement In one study, MSM improved pain and functioning compared to placebo The dose typically ranges It's sometimes divided into one, two You can typically find these supplements I've had so many patients comment in these videos Same with my patients personally. It's made such a big difference. Some studies are really good, There is only really about a thousand so it's not enough The dosage is 500 to 3000 milligrams in inflammation, improve joint mobility And I know some people have great results is phenomenal as well. There's studies just as well as an anti-inflammatory I highly, highly recommend turmeric for Turmeric is one of the most popular including joint pain Turmeric is so well if not thousands of studies Turmeric can be just as effective has anti-inflammatory effects. It's relatively safe, potential side effects, it can help thin the blood, Some people not a good thing. Dosages are about 500 milligrams 2 to 4 times per day Many users like this cream. It soothes the skin less irritation compared to other creams, It just jam packs The salon pain relieving patch. This is about 10 to 12 bucks It has menthol and menthol salicylic It's highly rated for convenience, and providing temporary relief There's a lot of different stuff in there. There's lighter cane patches. There's like fentanyl patches Don't worry, it's the proper dosage. It's not from like the cartels But these patches can provide The patches may not stick There are many different patches. You can have numbing light cane patches, you can have other And essentially over the course of an hour or two hours, and gradually distributed Very convenient. Number two Voltaren Arthritis Pain Gel. This is 20 to $25 for about 3.5oz. Voltaren is low cost. It works great. The active ingredient so this is a strong anti-inflammatory It's highly rated. It's low cost. It's available It's clinically And it's marketed for arthritis. But you can use it off This can work really well. In fact, world is compound creams, and almost Combined with other things, Some of the more expensive ones and you apply the cream Those can work really well, But it's an option. A lot of these different creams, the active ingredients Compound creams They would put like ten, Many of them were things like diclofenac and other anti-inflammatory People got a lot of pain relief, but It was insane. Insurance was kind of in on the game You kind of know the drill by now. that kind of got shut down But number one The highest rated one and the one with the most marketing push So it's like 20 bucks or so. It has the B vitamins in there. It has MSA m which is a supplement but as well the again, another supplement, and arnica, which kind of squeezes So less itching US irritation. This is an excellently reviewed cream, It's the active ingredients. These are strong, proven Apply that to your skin. It's effective for many types of pain, It's more expensive and requires But overall what you want to do is Like they'll freeze is really good. You want to look into creams So lighter cane is probably the strongest You want to look into different so one you can take orally is turmeric Buswell. Yeah, glucosamine. There's creams with arnica. And while creams are good, In some cases, they can even get rid of some people's So check out that video for sure There is Voltaren Arthritis Pain Gel Just the moisturizing as well As for cream with lighter cane caps, Try all of these out. There are combination ones Each product has strengthened weaknesses, Some people love the menthol. Some people love the lighter cane. Some people love to combo creams. Test it all out. Have these creams didn't work? Creams are not the strongest option. Check out my full peripheral How to diagnose it. The symptoms. The best home natural remedies. I'm telling you, peripheral neuropathy you don't have to go pay a doctor like me if you don't have insurance Hey guess what? We have a phenomenal book. I believe this is the premier and peripheral neuropathy. Pain on the planet. I've put years of work apathy patients working with the best doctors, the best neurologists, and building out this book We have a discount code available. Get on our mailing list