1066! The start of the royal family on these countries before that and druids before that, somewhere and a millennia ago is plenty far so it goes. William the Conqueror, conquered in the 'Norman Because it's the olden days, people had lots tree is going to leave out many of them on So William had three kids we care about: William If you've seen the video about royal succession that formal rules for passing on the crown free-for-all, home team advantage to the eldest Upon William the Conquerors death, William William II didn't marry, and on a bros day that gave Henry I the crown. Henry I had at least 26 children of which daughter would rule next (after his son died honor Empress Matilda by crossing their hearts, eye -- *but* when Henry I died while Matilda cousin Stephen raced to Westminster using Empress Matilda did eventually return and pretty much a stalemate because turtling in While she did rule part of the island, as her monarchical status is disputed. Now, as Stephen's children were either dead, to his nephew, Henry II who had four sons: John... and Geoff. (Guess who died before Henry II saw the history thus far of conquering, war -- and decided waiting until after the the *next* king didn't work. So Henry II changed the system and crowned the rule of two: one is none. Two is one. It was a good plan for stability, helped by -- the apprentice rebelled against the master, another civil war of disputed monarchs during the Elder died of fever, and Richard I took After Richard came John and four eldest son Magna Carta here) to Edward I (Longshanks) Actually Ed II was overthrown by Isabelle his wife. After deposing her husband, she these arrows glosses over a bit of complexity. Edward III had five sons: Edward the Black none of which would wear the crown. When Edward III died, his throne would have at the time so the crown went to his boringly There's a bunch of drama lamma stuff around might force you to read about -- but spoiler bigger-army diplomacy, this time from Henry starvation in captivity. Another Henry before we get to the War of A war that strikes terror (and boredom) in over who have to deal with *this* family tree but the shortest version ever is Edward III's though one of them was dead for part of the Henry VI to Edward IV to Henry VI to Edward Edward IV, on his deathbed left his crown so Richard, his best-ist uncle in the world, V then promptly disappeared under suspicious Richard the third. But he didn't stay king for long because Edward Henry VII -- took the crown, put a ring on legitimacy and then sired Henry VIII -- splitter Henry VIII thought it was high time to formalize out in his will -- basically saying oldest boys -- and Parliament approved the rules. Which should have made everything neat and messy time... ... Because Henry's son lived just long enough 9 there was, of course, a scheming protectorate that his father's rules were dumb and his once removed, Lady Jane Grey, should be the Then he died and Lady Jane Grey became queen status way for nine days, until beheaded by doubts it Queen. Mary didn't have any kids, and passed the queen in a row... to also not have children. next in ... oh. Right. Now, this is the point at which we acknowledge, royal thing which for our purposes joins the married into it in the 1400s and then goes: of Scotts, James. Bringing us back to the Henry the VIII's sister importantly also married legitimacy points in the eyes of the English James, making him king of two countries with you're counting from. James had a son, Charles I, and you might the very messy time is over. But no. Because Cromwell. Cromwell didn't like kings and beheaded Charles The Lord Protector which was in no way like it was a hereditary office passed to his son. But the Cromwells didn't last -- mainly because follow rule 0: keep the army happy -- giving reestablish the monarchy. Charles II had lots of children, all of which II next in line. But James II was *Catholic* had terrible approval ratings. But conveniently, to a Dutch Prince who by the nature of these English legitimacy points, plus, who doesn't With James so unpopular and William and Mary invited the royal couple to 'invade' and James William and Mary ruled as co-monarchs, but who also didn't produce any heirs, though *seventeen* times. Again, finding themselves with a no-royals-no-longer truly seriously the time to sort out the rules branch of this messy tree fighting over the Parliament did a royal reboot to clear the of James dual numbers to be the new starting These rules finally stuck, thus ending the George I, son of Sophia, was the first king to George III, and even though he lost America so the crown continued to calmly descend the have any surviving children, to William IV then passing through his dead younger brother 1837 and made it to just over the finishing impressively long time given the state of her age, the crown went to her son Edward to Edward VIII who *finally* breaks up this succession by committing a scandal: marrying Commoner *divorcee*! *twice over* ::Gasp:: Actually, the divorces were a real problem role as Head of State *and also* the Church to his brother George VI -- who was reluctant World War II and the subsequent breakup of King's health, who died at 56 leaving the the age of 25. Seven years older than Victoria, day, but in early September, 2015, Elizabeth British history, but world history. From Elizabeth II the crown continues on to history, to his son William, to his son George.