All the way back in 2016, we learned that So back then I thought..&quot;man..I really should I need to understand why people love this 5? 6?&quot; unique Armored Core games. And that's not discs some of these games have. Not to mention Hard mode, NG+, optional objectives, the lore These are complex, challenging, and extremely hit mainstream appeal, it was Armored Core afloat for many, many years. And then, sadly, favourite franchise take a back seat when Souls became From Software's breadwinner instead. So I wanted to experience these games the same way the old fans did. Not with emulators, and all of the frustration that comes with that. So many I had them. Three used consoles, two retro old video games. I was ready. released all the way back in 1997 ... &quot;You must battle against the opponent AC and survive. If you survive, you will be considered This is how Armored Core begins. With you as you frantically run around the arena and literally no guide or tips - nothing..just it out&quot;. X is boost, Square to shoot, Triangle to change weapon.. but when it comes to aiming: something feels wrong. I need a way to aim up or down at them. And bound here..that means..yeah. So looking back triggers. And that sucks. these Armored Core games, I'm sitting here could not tell you from memory which back was ever a time I needed to look up at something, the floor instead. But somehow, I push through, and I do eventually not allow you to progress if you don't. It's deep end, and expect the best from you. Will This is the Raven's Nest. Here, you can assemble you go to the shop, where you have no money. you become a wage slave to the two biggest are in a desperate battle with eachother for But your first mission is from the city guard, protesting in a nearby factory. And since use lethal force on..you know: innocent civilians: The workers' crude cranes and worker MTs are you walk away with 14,000 credits - Except..wait, those evil protesters, and you'll also need as well. workers who need to be taught a lesson, and profit from. I was making pretty good money I was tasked with rescuing a truck filled blow up the truck - and I assumed I would mission completed, and gave me my reward: repairs and minus 200 credits in compensation the heat of battle. So...I hadn't just failed it. I knew I was going to be morally bankrupt be financially bankrupt as well, if you play Looking back at my footage now, I realise new parts and their stats were so overwhelming. can't go too wrong spending credits in these an upgrade: and even if you regret buying to the shop for the same price you bought This is a game that won't stop you making those mistakes either. the shop, but I had heard whispers about two and I knew I NEEDED to try them. I needed It's called the &quot;Karasawa&quot;, an energy rifle that you actually can't get in the shop. Instead, it was one of the many hidden parts in this game. These were parts that you actually had to hunt down, I had read somewhere that the Karasawa was hidden behind some explosive barrels in an find. my firepower, and most enemies would die in downsides: for one, the Karasawa was extremely legs in order to accommodate it. The Karasawa light missiles as backup. It's really interesting change your build: new parts will introduce these your knowledge about parts that's really cool. weapon, so it costs energy to fire. That meant and I needed to decide whether I needed a with high capacity. High regen would make would allow me to fire a ton more shots and it's really amazing that Armored Core allows energy regeneration. was that its energy ammo was actually free. And in that's an amazing thing. And so I was learning all of the Armored Core games to follow. Now, these parts were powerful - but it's Looking up and down was still a pain, some were so many missions where I'd spend ages speeds..only to die, or run out of ammo, right So most of the time, I was just craving single And if the fight had some questionable voice a raven? I don't know anything about those There was also a frustrating moment at the end where I unique cutscene. But this wasn't just a unique the first time in HOURS of play, I discovered which and try to remember what I had changed in my build..that was..great. /s And you might say say &quot;well you should have just saved!&quot; but this was PS1 era, you know? Saving took time. Menus were slow. So I didn't bother to save until I had this experience. stuck on was tricky, because it required me so I had to make sure to manage my health and ammo so final boss. It was fun overcoming it. wasn't done. Not by a long shot. Raven's Nest headquarters, where a mysterious of floating mines. Now, the Raven's Nest itself The first part of the mission is simple enough. enemies, making sure I used my blade to conserve more difficult, as it was so packed full of enemies This room was tricky, but easier with some Because while your ammunition and health is this point, you'll get game over and have So for part 2 of the mission, you find yourself Lucky for you, there's what game they were making halfway through But this isn't doodle jump, this is in this game is excruciating..and this hallway you're going, and then you have to look DOWN Because all of these platforms are moving. speeds! Some will even run into eachother attached to the top and bottom of many platforms, and damage while you attempt your ascent. They don't do to defeat..but oh man - you're going to really miss top. Because the worst is yet to come. This for you to enjoy every - single - time you god or using save states on an emulator, you because of what..or who comes next. Name of AC: Nine-ball If you had ever looked at the &quot;ranking&quot; menu in the raven's nest, you would have seen a list of all the enemy AC, piloted by someone named &quot;Hustler one&quot;. this attempt of me fighting him. back for round two. Which went like this: gave up. Nineball is overpowered. Literally &quot;Human Plus&quot;, which is an overpowered state debt. Which is cool, but I didn't do that! So Nineball can fly has better weaponry than me, he approaches you to fight by aiming up and down because of the nature of the vertical arena that you're in. Plus, you've So.. I decided not to fight at all. I decided terror, to see if I could just get past him On my first escape run, I choked, and I missed And then on my second try......I made it. Back then I guess I had to flee. Down the corridor in terror, away had been killing me all day. somehow a part of Nine-ball's consciousness, and you Thank god I don't have to fight that guy again. Next up was Armored Core: Project Phantasma the first Armored Core! They were able to still be played as its own standalone game, &quot;expansion&quot;. The game essentially plays the new parts, and some rebalancing to old parts. game OVER to this one if you want to continue which is really cool. Core games work. The easiest way to understand how they're all connected is when they're arranged like this. Each row represents a &quot;generation&quot; of within the generation. There's gen 1 for the PS1, 4 and 5 for the PS3 and Xbox 360. Gen 1-3.5 play quite change radically in generation 4, and then Anyway: I wanted to try a new build in Project Phantasma. And I'd since learned that the most defining RPG equivalent of choosing a class. They determine nature of your movement, and perhaps most First I tried some tread legs. Tread legs and even allow you to fire heavy back weapons part can do. However, this comes at the cost mission was enough to decide that this was not in the game going this slowly. Quad legs are like tread legs in the sense while moving - though you can't fly while exist on a bit of a spectrum, where you can lightweight quads as well. I opted for the latter. Now lightweight ACs are kinda hard to put which prevents you from choosing stronger, would require a lot of trial and error..and this build process, than in a place called the arena. you fight exclusively against enemy ACs in credits as you go. And while enemy ACs are are no ammo costs here, so you can only really it teaches you about different enemy builds, and it shows you what works and what doesn't work and it shows you the limit of your own build. It's the perfect space to refine and adjust your of the hardest fights in the game, and that's lightweight quad with machine gun arms, and to run circles around opponents, staying out my own. is to refine your build in these games, and end. You solve weight problems, energy problems, stand your ground on others..and if you're is entirely your own. You know are. You know its strengths. You know exactly it's yours. machine gun ammo costs were going to put me my build into a more cost efficient one for But for the final mission, I wheeled out my lightweight, final fight was against Stinger, who's..a to Nineball in the previous rainbow bullets that my FPS would drop to I actually ran out of ammo in this fight, I actually gave up and went close to him so with, but then this happened: His own missiles Pretty fitting way for this guy to go out. that's the end of Project Phantasma. series..but From Software were watching - just the next game was &quot;Armored Core: Master of I put in the disk, loaded up the first mission..and Nineball was back. And this time, it was personal..on Nineball for him shaming me in the first game my character wanted revenge as well. Lana is your contact at the Raven's Nest, on the network, you mentioned becoming a Raven AC Name: Nineball. Pilot: Hustler One. Top She comments that anyone who attempts to face but that if we're really serious about this, one day fight him. PROGTECH, who manufacture AC parts. They want factory, and in return they'll give us some What follows is this glorious mix of mission board will be completely empty, and all you to progress in in order to unlock missions where the arena is locked off because there's your sponsor. And it's this balance...the that makes Master of Arena easily rank in pacing here is just phenomenal. In the other a grind; and doing the arena often felt like missions had me feeling like I was strengthening I progressed in the Arena, I knew it was in so that I could one day have the right to the story of this game, just as he's formidable So I continued to chip away at the missions, wielding the Karasawa and the moonlight sword and some really fast legs. These legs were so fast that I didn't really need my boosters, which meant that I had more With this build, I flew through the arena opponent, it would be because they were flying. But if they were flying, I'd take them to the garage - an and kept them on the ground with me so that I didn't have to press the accursed R2 and L2 triggers. fight against nineball arrived. I thought this fight went pretty well! Got him on the first try... Except that wasn't the end. Phase two has you fighting..TWO nineballs. The reason there's two, is because it's been mass produced, and they actually aren't piloted by highly advanced combat AI that thinks it can as long as they're the strongest Raven. Which Quickly I realised that it's extremely important that you do well in the first fight against ammo that remains is what you'll need to take And after a ton of time consuming resets, dual nineball fight, which could be used to fight one at a time. There's a certain kind of absurd, giddy dread that I've only ever experienced playing From you've pushed yourself to the limit, the challenge This third phase is extremely you have to defeat one nineball, then the to practice this fight. And those were hard enough so you don't get that many chances to practice. always begins the fight by running at you requires a well timed boost-jump for you to little rocketship and zoom around the arena, you before transforming back into an attack phase pulse rifle once again. him. And over, and over, I lost. technique, that might just be able to help core grip&quot;. Some said it was a meme. Others you could get full access to every button of your AC. So I gave it a try. After countless attempts at phase one and about 16 victories in phase 2, I managed to overcome phase 3. With a little bit of skill, and a lot of luck. And I was just joking about using the Armored Core grip. Or was I...? Anyway, nineball was dead. Thank god I don't have to fight that guy again. this, because this was a ps2 game, and I had side for a while now - knowing it had what wait to be able to aim properly..so I grabbed What? For some unfathomable reason, back triggers for camera control in this game. right there! It's insane to me that this wasn't a good reason for this but I don't know. takes place 67 years after the events of Master the &quot;Great Destruction&quot; forced mankind underground. pre-war &quot;Mars Immigration Project&quot;, and started wars over resources would inevitably break But I wanted my story to begin in a unique mission. Instead, I committed for some reason to every single opponent, and become the top This ended up becoming an extremely memorable incur repair and ammo costs, it doesn't exactly so there was a limit to which parts I could So for me, it was very important to read these I loved how much story and insight each one to pay off gambling debts...some were here I distinctly remember #45 - who was a girl feed her starving family. Feels bad. But most importantly, preferred strategies and weaknesses. For example, and then there was another who would panic some enemies were just pure comedy. At one in the arena because he loved the sound of afford more ammo. I couldn't outpace him with he flat out just decided to leave the arena And then there was Super Sonic, on the fastest parts. Like..he was here to he went so fast that he accidentally flew It's in Armored Core 2's arena that I experimented there were so many ways to express trying to exploit new enemy weaknesses taught weaponry. #19. AC name: mass. Pilot name: bulk. Guess what his build is? Yeah so his build was designed to just stay alive, while their opponents ran out of ammo. Which him, I found it: My new best friend - the of ammo, which allowed me to focus on one I flew towards top rank. No. 1111. Rank..11. &quot;He's obsessed with the into his current position. He'd rather be 1's. I realised even his weapon arms looked But in retrospect, his weapon arms would end strategy ended up being useless against the and turning ability to completely counter him instead. I took number 11's lead, and Ares, to become #1. One one was enough for Now I could actually start playing the game. didn't matter that my machine gun ammo was And when I finally got to the last mission fight enemies that couldn't be locked onto, Instead of brute forcing the final fight with my shop knowledge to come up with a better cannon arms that benefit from being manually for myself. it's implied that he was the player character callbacks. There's a depth to the storytelling over my head, as I'm so focused on the gameplay. to the story - yet anyway..even I can tell more absent, than in Armored Core 2: Another The big selling point in this expansion seems to be the sheer amount of missions. I feel like most of these games had an average of between in Another Age, there are 100 missions in you can skip certain missions, or have them Another Age are mandatory. Now, ima be honest: of badly designed missions. Missions where objectives. Missions where you accidentally And Another Age had tons of missions I hated. that your AC could be fundamentally incompatible that required me to ascend a long corridor..and..I get me wrong, I love reworking my AC to solve incompatible with some mandatory missions this is why Armored Core 6 might be adding But then there's a bright side to having mandatory get good. For example, perhaps the most memorable where you have to fight not one, not two - but exactly as hard as it sounds. can harass you if you leave it alive. Another powerful weaponry that can take you down VERY of a threat at all - though they still serve precious ammo taking them down. you have to come up with a strategy, and make And then you have to make sure you have the After a few attempts, I realised I had the with machine gun fire, since they came at any of my projectiles. But fighting the other two was the difficult to split apart, and would grind me down that could take one of them out quickly with secondary weapon, and I also equipped a &quot;relation was activated, it short time, which was enough to deal severe But then the final piece of the puzzle was weak, this was simply an ammo issue. I had the first two, but simply did not have enough eventually I made a build with two sets of teeth as I took out the final AC on a sliver I genuinely felt like I achieved something the pieces of the puzzle on the battlefield, put my solution to the test with my reflexes. best. And by the way, there's a part of Armored three enemy ACs at once too. So..yeah. You But then it was back to the mission grind. navigate all the missions in this game is for each region, and there's a good sense as a result of that. And finally I made it to the end. I'll be honest, I don't even know who that guy is. More than in any other Armored Core game, I actually just grinding away at mission after mission alone. I was actually kind of appreciative at this &quot;Thanks Raven. You've accomplished a great And then they give you a well-deserved reward. But to be fair, these missions were the best assume is Stinger from Project Phantasma, I kind of like the flavour of these ancient ACs be fought as these corrupted remnants of another And of coruse, the real final fight is against is. And here, he fights the exact same way controls and visuals are a bit better here, tough - but here, I discover a strategy that ever facing an AC that tries to get behind in this manner, Nineball will chase you around energy waves and shooting projectiles - which - which is to bunny hop boost tightly, left was still hard as hell, and at this point toying with people's nineball PTSD by putting and surely I won't have to fight that guy And that's the second generation of Armored might be the hardest generation of Armored next is Armored Core 3. A whole new generation! dual analogue controls? this time. Armored Core 3 takes place during underground because of the Great Destruction. Controller&quot;, an AI which..quite predictably The sequel, Silent Line, deals with the aftermath returns to the surface, and corporations begin Line&quot;. But mysterious technologies are already These are compelling stories. This third generation Controls and movement get tighter with every is really nice, menus are fast to navigate, limits were more generous in these games, wanted onto my AC. to say about Armored Core 3 or its sequel, As usual, there were good missions, and frustrating fun - but I was never truly challenged by really point to any one thing that made these though, I think Armored Core 3 and Silent precisely because I don't think they're too added a ton of great QOL changes to the series A cool new addition in this generation were shields. So in this game you can equip your fun weaponry - these weapons fire with a delay, but dramatically increase your damage input, and problem is..firing two weapons means you have And remember you're still boosting with the other face button so that's three face buttons you have to press at once. And that's just a huge stress to your finger inputs on top of everything else, so because the series STILL refused to accommodate the right analogue with default controls, and I just opted for But FINALLY, the control scheme would be brought 3.5 of Armored Core..which consisted of three Last Raven. added in Nexus, the L2 and R2 bumpers were operators, and were able to be used for intuitive instead. Which meant L1 and R1, instead of right arm weaponry respectively. Which meant Dual firing added a new offensive depth to So I dived into the first mission equipped began to overheat. in the previous games. But back then, I only enemy weaponry all at once, and it only did In Armored Core Nexus: that all went out the a LOT more to my heat meter, and if I overheated and suck up immense amounts of my own energy LOT more impactful than just taking damage had become a huge new consideration when considering It's almost as if From Software realised their and thought &quot;we can't have that&quot;, and added Regardless: eventually I had my head around with new dual wielding setups. I tried double laser rifles.. - but what I really fell in rather than wielding two of the same. I ended These two had similar range, but the rifle and the bazooka was great for the larger, That said, I ended Nexus with double bazookas..in ancient technology. But at this point, they'd that he's just not the same any more. Rest I guess it does make some sense that Nineball as I can tell, the story of Nexus is about they don't understand. And it all backfires spew out of a factory, and out onto the earth, of great destruction. It's awful, but it's games have ever had, just because of the phenomenal in the pouring rain, actually able to control of suicide drones ram into the earth's surface, no hope of you taking them all out, so you and Nexus comes to an end. same for the next expansion, which is Armored Get this: this game has no missions. It doesn't mode filled with 150 training exercises that accuracy..stuff like that. Fun. That's..not really So when I played, I figured the real point mode, which requires you to earn points and next AC in your path. I imported my save from nexus, which removed and replaced them with what I had in Nexus instead. And I didn't have many parts unlocked in Nexus, so I was essentially forced to do the entire arena..with Luckily my build was strong enough to take that were borderline impossible with my build. I had to wait until he challenged me on a so he couldn't fly behind me, and I JUST took Maybe I'll do the training missions to prepare for Armored Core 6..and maybe they'd be great if you're a beginner to the series, but I wanted to move on because I was SO excited for the next game. I had heard a lot about it. Because it was the last Armored Core game that had this the hardest game From Software had ever created. did not disappoint. weapons had ravaged the world. The corporations rebuild individually, they joined forces to a rebel group known as &quot;Vertex&quot; vowed to overthrow Now Vertex has issued a declaration: their is that Last Raven starts with a clear story, every mission, building the tension. in my opinion, offering a set of missions towards different missions and endings. I role in the story based on which path I chose. Armored Core so far had been born from my go down a story path that I had heard was path, named after your rival, who challenges GET hard. I was prepared for that. What I to literally be harder than anything I'd faced in the previous two games. Like..to put this into context..I had just and this AC design with its dual bazookas had taken me through the the entirety of Nexus as well. mission with this build. I had to perfect my AC further if I was going step backs actually, all the way back to the for a few hours so that I could buy every disc of nexus, which had some optional parts &quot;Ananda&quot; radiator to stop me from overheating, was kind of like a halfway point between a which helped my offhand weapon to hit more entirety of Last Raven. &quot;Micro Missiles&quot;, which send a barrage of overwhelming any enemies with anti-missile With this setup, I was eventually able to of range of his cannons, while unloading everything I would take time to hide and recover some energy behind again. It was close, but I had completed the Or at least, I thought I had. I didn't know what was going on. my AC here, and that the audio was glitching add a new feature where you can break certain this experience was VERY immersive. I was like - wow, my head part is broken and the audio is glitched, that's amazing. But my disk was actually scratched. That will teach me to buy off of ebay. My mission flat to beat the mission again, and the same glitch me finish the mission this time. Surely this won't be As was tradition whenever I knew I needed to get I flew through almost all of it with no issue. legs that I chose for their excellent boost to offset the issues with my slow movement time anyway. I would activate my EO core and unload all my micro missiles and my relation to lighten my load and increase rifle and bazooka and kiting my enemy around for so my enemies actually weren't too memorable as a result faced in this arena was some guy with the hover extension part build was pretty useless, and very easy to shoot at in the sky..but it was interesting. And But then everything became incredibly difficult, when I met Daemon. And I think this guy might take the these games. Just look at his technique! He's By combining a close range machine gun with stunlock you to death in no time at all. And it's an absolute nightmare trying to keep controls. I died to him over, and over, and wasn't like previous games - I couldn't choose garage and call it a day. No - this arena I tried a few new things against Daemon. I me get some distance, but my energy would a vertical FCS part for the first time, which gave me this tall lock box that was a bit better suited to Daemon's movement trajectory..but nope. I was about to give up and come back back to that hover AC wondered - what if he was the key? What if up to the roof, and stay there - then I'd supremacy. I thought there was at least a garage with all my parts, and got to work. you to tune most parts to be better in line even so, this infinite flight build turned but it taught me a lot. First, I needed the So I chose reverse bipedal legs for their with enough capacity, and boosters with enough my build to be energy efficient enough to STAY hovering. This meant I needed to choose takes away from your generator's maximum output. efficient it could float in the air AND recover problem was to cram weaponry onto this thing..without weapons that were light, ammo efficient, and on micro missiles, and a sniper rifle. And had it. I called this AC &quot;Vulture&quot;, after out of range..and it eventually took me to ammo to spare. I guess you could argue I cheesed Armored Core's gameplay begins in the garage, it felt like I had solved a really complex pulled out my Blast Raven build instead..and By the way, that's another cool thing about builds quickly. It's as if you have different to be taken out when it's their time to shine. is an amazing feature for these games to have, build in the menus for ages. Instead, you to them, and then be ready to switch up your Armored Core 6 had better have a system like have a system like this. Last Raven is its in-game lore repository, the story in-game. You know, this way they for all their lore. Wait maybe don't Last Raven's missions were a delight. Actually one was peppered with familiar enemy ACs that were just these great tests of your combat the map for obscure objectives. That said, into pure blackness after a maze of corridors, without a headpiece that had night vision. But throughout all of these missions, I had Remember that glitch that showed up in my the mission wouldn't end? Well that had been happening this whole time. And eventually, it became so bad that I found one mission that just wouldn't again I completed the mission and it refused I had to suck it up, put away the PS2..and Okay, so...you might be noticing a difference back, I kind of regret not trying emulators Last Raven runs at a higher framerate, plays to use save states to help me get back to having to do ALL these missions again, but before. I had just used emulators, then I might have crucial moments of difficulty and tedium. 60fps and high resolutions, the games would have experienced them the same way everyone said, I'd still recommend emulating these on Ebay. Ebay has atrocious buyer for this scratched disc..so yeah, don't do that. mission. A final gauntlet that first requires with suicide drones. Then eventually, I actually got a checkpoint for the first time - so I didn't have to restart from the start anymore - then I had to take out some lasers on the walls. Then, it was the final fight with Zinaida. Here, she is widely regarded to be the most watch, and figure out why: She fights a lot like Daemon - except I think she's even faster, fighting at more of a midrange somehow don't slow down her down at all. cheating, because there's no way you can build Not to mention, you have to start this fight - unless you make it past the suicide drones Which is what I did - I spent ages learning the drone checkpoint with full health. somehow. I knew I couldn't outrun her with I realised that if I moved forwards and backwards in a predictable manner..just long enough For the first time, I was actually dealing enough? by the end I was gripping my controller so AP..I got it. The final shot. I'd completed every game in the old generation was here, that the series would change forever. That's right. Armored Core 4, and Armored Core For Answer are directed by none other And in his new, VERY different fourth generation They've been superceded by LYNX, who pilot can move and fly and fight on a whole other they are! is because a) it's now MUCH easier to attain all the time, and b) side boosts now have extension part that only moved you in one and tapping side boost can allow you to perform the means to keep enemies in their sights built into the default controls was, in my - and of all the games, these are the ones playthroughs under my belt, to date. enjoyed putting together this energy weapon throw them away when they're out of ammo to - most of my playthroughs are in actually Answer. Because I feel like it's here, in generation was fully realised. Not just in well. out the music in this game. always been great. You've been hearing it a lot of credit for that seems to have to on almost all of these soundtracks. He even releases overlap almost entirely with the And that's so cool. That Armored Core has also seems like Kota Hoshino has been working band creates some music for Armored Core 6. specifically changed with Generation 4's music played that added this melancholy, nostalgic, And it added such a good vibe to the franchise. I mean just listen to this! These sort of reflective tracks play in a lot of key missions. And I feel like they want you to ask the question: why? Why are we fighting? Are we really doomed to have all of this destruction And the answer is inevitably...yes. Despite fact, Armored Core: For Answer has one of From Software has ever directed. And I want to show it to you. if you complete the game THREE times. So that's times..and I'm so glad I did. Because these and replaying the game so many times helped ceiling that the fourth generation lays claim with new parts, and replaying so many times which are basically stat points that allow of your AC. By the end, I was overboosting, precision that I'm honestly quite proud of, The reason my overboost looks so cool here White Glint, which gives it a unique animation. - a legendary character in this generation. I jokingly called my NEXT &quot;Black Flint&quot;..and to this build, over the course of three playthroughs: gun arms, which fires both chambers with R1. powerful on their own, you're still allowed I ended up equipping the &quot;Yamaga&quot; - a grenade it's REALLY fun firing the machine guns constantly, to fire a grenade. If my aim was good enough, dialogue couldn't even finish in time. for not only infinite flight, but basically extremely difficult to hit. And then there's the &quot;Euphoria&quot;, which increased my Primal But what is Primal Armor? Well, THIS is your that primarily reduces the damage you take for overboosting, like this..or using assault this, because all signs indicate that Armored Armor - since you can see it repelling attacks assault armor explosion here, and here, as Primal Armor is a technology based on &quot;Kojima - to the point where primal armor is strictly of a NEXT fighting in this space could contaminate Now, a lot of our fights do take place near worry, they've almost always been long enveloped of colour, and life - after all, very little surface. to the cradles, which are these massive airship members of humankind, who escaped the pollution But according to the revolutionary group called causing horrible pollution on the surface. will soon start bleeding into the atmosphere So ORCA seeks to commandeer the energy sources for a different purpose. They wish to power them towards the sky, in an attempt to take are blocking mankind's escape to space. Because ORCA thinks this world is doomed. but to side with the League establishment, the Cradles energy source. The final fight in Arteria Cranium, where you fight against So on your second playthrough, you'll find new missions to play, and these lead to the side - attempting to wrest the power source In this ending, the cradles are forced to that they had escaped in the skies. discover a new frontier: outer space. But there's the third ending. One only open arena mode, until you meet and defeat an enemy He's a radical ORCA member who takes a...more pops up on your board in this playthrough. This mission is easy. The only challenge to revels in the bloodshed. But then your reckoning arrives. In the last mission, you're led into an ambush against actions. You and Old King have to face off this in Hard Mode, there's even a fifth. It's build, which I considered quite overpowered But somehow I take out three enemy NEXTs..and separated from myself and Old King. Rather into combat on low health...and...just make felt like I came out of it a better player to attempt hard mode, as well. Things are harder in more interesting ways, like adding more mechs to the fights. So For alongside Last Raven and Master of Arena, Now if it wasn't obvious already from the playthroughs. That's because my disc wouldn't say: being able to emulate this game without why I came to like this game so much, because not on the same level. So many of these missions arms forts, which should be incredible experiences unfortunately. Emulate these games, if you That said, I've heard it's hard to emulate these are the last ones that I want to talk at the fifth, and for a long time - final about Armored Core 5, and its sequel, Verdict Where 4th gen's music was toned for a beautiful are instead accompanied by a thumping militaristic absolutely reinforced by the gameplay and Because Armored Core 5 marks another huge in the direction of making Armored Core more power fantasy that it was in the fourth generation. grow on me - especially in 5's sequel: Verdict not really enjoy my time with Armored Core as a multiplayer experience - but there IS great. I found fps performance to be lacking, was atrocious, I didn't feel like I could were long and lackluster, with character dialogue The most fun I had in this game was because I chose a really heavy tank build, loaded if ever there was a time for a slow build, the movement style. So doing less movement feature that allowed me to charge into enemies is kind of like the move you can see the tank I had fun with my build - even if I didn't But in the final mission of Armored Core V could be. In this fight, you have time to boss's moveset and attack patterns was quite really experienced much of before in Armored And luckily, 5's sequel: Verdict Day, clearly of complaining about 5, I'd much rather talk explain the gameplay via my experiences with Just like For Answer's soundtrack, Verdict listen to this beat garage and menu tracks are so memorable to I take you through the garage of the fifth In fifth gen, you begin with basically one try new weapons and equipment to try and figure those parts are junk. Like, literally, they're than everything else that you can get in the means that at the start of the game, you can't shop...because no matter what you do, it's you have. It's a clever way to onboard new and I wonder if they'll do something like this in Armored Core 6? the battlefield at the start, after all. Day actually shaped my entire build for the rest of my playthrough - because I couldn't kill these guys And I was really happy to go with a sniper build because sniping was another archetype I hadn't really it works well in this game because a) it's your opponents...and b), the gameplay is just great rewards for careful positioning, which only got better given I could snipe enemies from really far away. So In this generation, your boosters can be toggled walk. And if you're gliding on the ground, which is essentially an overboost that moves of more energy. Then finally there's quick from Armored Core 4..but..worse. in this discussion..because jumping is ALSO jumping up buildings is your primary means jumping perpendicular from them is one of Looking back at it, honestly it's absurd that around the map in this game. Armored Core amount of controller inputs, but the fifth opinion. combat is &quot;Scan mode&quot;, which you can toggle fire your weapons - but your energy output quickly in scan mode, and to be way more evasive whenever I needed to get distance from my for sniping. know: scanning, which is also very important. in the fifth generation: Kinetic, Thermal, that you scan enemies: especially bosses, can overwhelm their unique defenses. Otherwise you hit them, and your weapons will just tickle like scanning, so there were a lot of enemies I LOVE when Armored Core forces you to reconsider but there's not much creativity involved when are weak to. So I didn't enjoy this damage What I DID like in this game was the addition can choose to bring with you to every mission. a complementary ally - for example I often from me while I sniped in the distance - and previous game I just felt like a bullet sponge But even UNACS can only do so much against the final boss, Who was perhaps unsurprisingly the most memorable part of Verdict Day for me. Because I spent a LOT of time trying to figure this guy out. Core 4 - and it's terrifying to go against. things were back then. Its strength is its break through - until it goes in for assault moment. I eventually figured out that if I could end phase one in an instant. Because weapon that essentially rams a warhead deep damage. It's very similar to what you see Then phase 2 begins, and you have to play mode overboost to evade those missiles. Deal range. Try to keep the sun behind you because This fight is LONG, and you'll take a lot perfectly in order to deal enough damage in Overall, I enjoyed Verdict day just as much as any other Armored Core game. With it, they and it goes to show how the sequels are sometimes being more of the same. was this. Formula Front: Extreme Battle, on so I wasn't going to pass up the opportunity There are four Armored Core games on the PSP, Last Raven - these are remakes. Front, Extreme Battle - where you're given simply tasked with climbing the ranks in the beat this entire game without actually playing you calibrate your AC to fight for you. It take forever to navigate, and often your AC will just happily shoot missiles into a wall I will say: the enemy ACs in this arena are so unique that I ended up being forced to order to progress, and counter them. It was fun. One funny thing is the whole aesthetic of dystopian commentary on the terror of war and intros in Formula Front make you feel with an audience of adoring fans watching with glee. It's..weird. If this is what peacetime I'll take the dystopian corporate nightmare, So in conclusion..I like Armored Core. And my top 3, in the end, were Master of Arena, And I'm very thankful that I have you all, through and understand this franchise. Because I otherwise might have never discovered. And tried these games. So I hope this video might a try, and to push through any hardships they'll memories of your own, so to speak. this series..either see if you can get a fair if you do emulate: be prepared for some technical be pretty possible with guides online. And if you are interested, well, then which games should you play? Well..that's actually If you only have time to play one Armored the fourth generation, with Armored Core: game to get to grips with, and it has fantastic If you have time to play a couple of games, and Silent Line. These felt quite accessible controls and a challenge, then I'd recommend Last Raven instead. Play any from this video that sound interesting enough. Okay, maybe don't play Ninebreaker. But thank you for listening to this extremely for AC6 as I am..and I'll see you next time.