If your mother cooks Italian food, why should you go to a restaurant? It was the fall of '42, New York. Here in a poor neighborhood of Manhattan, lived a family of second-generation immigrants. Charles and Catherine Scorsese grew up in facing each other. Their first date was on the fire escape, and All their lives the couple worked at a sewing Catherine started working there at 12 after Middle school was too expensive for her parents As for Charles, the whole neighborhood knew Show him a suit and he could recreate it to After the wedding Cat never had to buy a dress In 1935 Cat and Charlie had their first son, second son, whom they named Martin. The couple realized that the cramped apartment was no place to raise children. The minute Catherine was discharged from the to a better neighborhood where they rented Marty was a sickly child and was diagnosed In the 40s an inhaler was not enough and he went to preschool. Nonetheless, Charles' business was growing Weekly trips to the movie theatre and comic four-year-old's childhood. His older brother would take him to double convinced their religious mother to let him Duel in the Sun amazed the young viewer. The music by Dmitri Tiomkin was both terrifying Gregory Peck and Jennifer Jones also enchanted During the finale, the little boy got so scared his eyes with his hands, but his mother made took me here to see it, now watch it!" In'48 Charles was the first of his neighbors Life changed forever when the first TV shows world. It was a place with no asthma, allergies or Where the dream of becoming a cowboy seemed laws of physics. Father and son shared a love for film and and Rome, Open City, films which caused every never seen. The fairytale came to an end when in 1948 Scorsese had to return to Little Italy. The cramped one-room belonging to Charles' they could find their own cramped one-room. Movie theatres were replaced with the third-floor below was more terrifying than the finale MARTIN SCORSESE was a kid growing up on the Lower East Side; what I really believed was the right way to - I saw too much of it among the people the 50s Martin was not allowed to go outside. It was no place for healthy children, not His world perspective was shaped by his window He diverted himself by transporting the scenes becoming an artist. In the future, these little sketches would to detail would help him fill the library names of every film he watched. But years passed and he started going to school TV screen. The "mean streets" began to leave their There were two languages of power on Elizabeth The priests were the only ones the mafia submitted Martin found his chance at a spotless career The frail young man, nothing like the future to faith. In 1951 he had his First Communion and started next five years he would dream of the priesthood. He served in St. Patrick's church and later There was room for his first love in his new A priest helped the boys to analyze films Waterfront directed by Elia Kazan. At school, they studied ideas, dissected problems The youth was moving in the right direction from a different perspective. Sex, drugs, and rock-n-roll infiltrated his was enough to change his plans. Up until he finished middle school he was changed from the moment in 1959 when he got camera. In a day he drew a storyboard for his future with his friends where they put on bedsheets, Unfortunately, only drawings are left of this I director only had to watch it once to realize of day, and that he needed a drastic change MARTIN SCORSESE church and the movies, the sacred and the I could also see great similarities...Both share." the 60s life for their sons but their low income did education at NYU. The new world amazed him. Before he was surrounded by poverty and violence, families who loved cinema and admired him. For the white-collared kids, he represented only saw in the movies. As for the library of pictures, scenes and notice, they put a spell on his teachers. His professor from the Cinematic Arts department and the feeling was mutual. Within the walls of the university European Godard were like their gods. Manoogian expected that his students would themselves. He ordered them to grab their cameras and But school was no walk in the park. As the only student who couldn't afford Kodak M2, while his classmates were filming had to be content with one or two days a month friends. But even in these short deadlines, Scorsese JIM MCBRIDE rest of us. He could quote films to you, describe them While we were humping around, trying to find gems." While working on the first short film of his who saved his work from the clumsy attempts The reel What's a was not only his debut but the beginning of His second school project was the crime comedy The main character - a man who badly wanted for the characters in Mean Streets, Goodfellas, The drama received an award for the Best Student him his first moment of glory. Also, while he was filming he met the young studying at NYU. In 1965 Marty got married, and a year later The daughter was named Catherine in honor Life was good, especially since Paramount internship. He was already packing his suitcase when he The studio was changing its policy and no So, as you do when you have a wife and a baby make a feature film. While at a summer internship with his classmate began making a melodrama based on his own They invited Harvey Keitel to play the main as a stenographer at a courthouse. The director's father went to the bank and first investor in his son's career. The money was spent on film reel and buying budget. Wadley was the only one with a car so he transported and film crew had to make their way to the They filmed only on the weekends wherever Whether at the Scorseses', at the local house. Since these locations were not intended for installed there was hardly any space for the When they tried to film outside they were people or curious children. MARTIN SCORSESE You started shooting a scene, then two months had cut their hair, or had another job and It was a nightmare." The first draft was finished just in time in '65. The audience didn't quite get the hour-long but the director of the festival saw the potential asking him to help his student re-make the Haig responded by finding a sponsor among Joseph Vale. The successful lawyer considered film his thousand dollars into the picture. Manoogian and Scorsese went to the editing Haig convinced the director to rewrite the up with a resolution. The new text took Martin six months to write. During that time he got a job at the CBS TV and also made a documentary commissioned by New York City: Melting Point. In the winter of 1966, the director resumed First. Martin was able to get both Michael Wadley hadn't gotten his hopes very high anyways. A year and a half of the film had exhausted He had a tendency to show up with a new haircut But Scorsese turned a blind eye to these things. Partially because he respected Keitel's changing the main character would kill his It took three months to film the second version '67. It premiered at the Chicago Film Festival Not in protest or because of a conflict with money for a bus ticket to Chicago. His budget had grown but he still did not with the amount of material he filmed. When, after the showing, they offered the in limited theatres he felt like he was on He rejoiced until he found out that without be shown in any commercial theater. After two weeks of haunting the music labels, This destroyed his dream of packed theaters request. In two weeks the thriller The Honeymoon Killers The producers had a script, actors, and a which Scorsese accepted immediately and went and think through every frame. However, his bursts of creativity and obsession within the first week. For the first six days, he professed his belief take. On the seventh day the cameraman Oliver Wood falling onto the pavement but the scene did Scorsese was fired for the first and last His assistant Donald Volkman was promoted This indie production became a cult film and who called it his favorite American film. In addition, the popular video rental store of all time. Those who were close to the film knew that for the film, but the director left without As for Volkman and his producers, The Honeymoon Martin's anger and disillusionment were short The Big Shave which amazed New York's The short fit in everything from metaphors nihilism into five minutes. After an unsuccessful period in 1969, Manoogian at the university. For a whole year, he was busy with a stable In that year he oversaw students like Jonathan The university sent him to Europe to attend Thanks to this trip he made a few acquaintances exploitation films distributor Joseph Brenner. Joe offered to take care of the song rights of theaters. The only condition was that he add an erotic turn it into a sexploitation film. Martin immediately brought Keitel to the Dutch room, he paid for the time of a dozen free-spirited it with the Doors' song The End. Ten years later this impromptu scene would of Apocalypse Now. Brenner was amazed by what he saw, and he at My Door? in honor of the first lines of Under this title, the picture took the drive-in In 1969 a journalist from Time magazine, Jay from New York and became interested in Scorsese. Martin charmed Cox, who as a result helped and even convinced the famous American director debut reel. Who's That Knocking at My Door? amazed Cassavetes: JOHN CASSAVETES This review left Scorsese speechless. He couldn't believe his ears. This great director, basically his idol, was This meeting gifted Scorsese with yet another While Martin was fighting for the release the film company Paradigm Pictures and gathered The main editor became Thelma Schoonmaker. Paradigm's main focus was modern documentaries Scorsese was often invited to work on various The company gave him a chance to direct an about the adventures of a rock-n-roll band Later that year Wadley took on the biggest He headed up a film crew of 15 people which This is why he asked Thelma to be his assistant of the cameramen and film extra material. On the morning of the 15th of August, 1969 white Corvette and set off for Wallkill to This job was a nightmare for a young man who In three days Mills Park was visited by over They faced unsanitary conditions, drugs, and Martin drop the walkie-talkies and spend 72 musicians on the planet. RICHARD CHEW in a pup tent under the stage. He knocked over the pole, and the whole thing He had claustrophobia and was screaming for But he wasn't Martin Scorsese yet, he was On Monday morning, the 19th of August, Jimi had been delayed 10 hours. He played his set in front of the remaining weekend which had given the world a weekend Having returned to New York the team realized Wadley asked Martin and Thelma to help edit. It took four grueling months to make a three-hour 50 minutes. Its first screenings won the critics over. Wadley was able to show what it was like to The rights to the release and distribution Michael sold the rights for 600 thousand dollars, the studio over 50 million dollars. Success followed all who were connected to Wadley got an Oscar for Best Documentary and Editing. And though Scorsese was left out of his friends' for him. MARTIN SCORSESE my movies and I see that it's the outsider I realize that all my life I've been an outsider, it." the 70s Riding the wave of Woodstock's success, project. Producer Fred Weintraub who had purchased money off of every festival in the US. A month after the picture's release, Fred the documentary Medicine Ball Caravan which Love which was nicknamed "Woodstock on wheels". The film crew traveled eight thousand miles of B.B. King and Alice Cooper, hundreds of cities, However after three months of editing the The screening lasted nine hours though the The next day Warner fired Reichenbach and Someone at the studio suggested that the producer out to Los Angeles. His two-week contract stretched out for six Martin cut the time down to a ninth of the in a new way. The result satisfied Weintraub but the film Martin didn't want to return to New York were made. He decided to stay in L.A. even though it Laraine was not about to move to the other Scorsese was brought up strictly Catholic committing a terrible deed. However, he was not able to betray his first forever. The world of cinema did not receive Martin Adult life was hard for the director. After working on Medicine Ball Caravan he got him a job as a sound editor for the melodrama a place to sleep on set were the best conditions Besides Cassavetes, in LA he only knew Brian The directors were introduced to each other time hung out at different studios, festivals, by their more successful colleagues. During one of these events at Fred Weintraub's The girl was just as obsessed with film and seemed to know even more about the movies The couple lived together for the next four In the autumn of 1970 Sandy, Brian and Martin It was another lame attempt to network with be successful. Scorsese was introduced to Francis Ford Coppola. On the first night, they dueled, using their of bullets or swords. Those who saw them together that night thought The tall moody bearded Coppola and next to Coppola got a deal for the adaptation of The Martin volunteered to help. Francis agreed and happily ate pasta at Scorsese's to improve the accents used in the film, taped mother gave him advice about choosing actors no way he could film the picture in 100 days. Martin took him to Elizabeth Street, showed some of the key locations. A few months later he was a regular guest At the same time, his success in documentary and he was entrusted with the editing of yet Elvis on Tour showed the American King of footage and provided a short biography of For over a year Martin couldn't get work He obviously hadn't thought through his dream. When Cassavetes' assistant received a call Roger Corman wanted him to direct his next tone. However, the proposal turned out to be real. The famous exploitation film producer truly he was already sitting in the office of New Corman had gone to a repeat showing of Who's at Coppola's insistence with whom he had Roger was impressed with the young director's a shot. For a year he had been planning to film the Bloody Mama where Shelly Winters shone next Roger offered him Barbara Hershey and David 600 thousand dollars, and 24 full filming screenplay called Boxcar Bertha on one condition: at least every 15 pages. Scorsese did not waste any time and in two his adaptation of the text. The producer expected to come to a read-through repeating his mistakes from Honeymoon Killers For the first (but not last) time, Roger did B movie rule. The film should have a shocking opening and November of 1971 was the best in Martin's After 8 years of trying to get into the exclusive very heart. Working with the professional film crew brought The cinematographer Paul Rapp showed him how and then change the position of the equipment. The team had spent years honing its filming director the most important lessons of his teaching him how to work with actors. Scrupulous preparation allowed Martin to experiment The erotic scenes were especially successful. The year before Barbara and David had gotten their displays of affection. Scorsese milked the typical grindhouse plot In January of the next year, he finished the John Cassavetes. JOHN CASSAVETES of your life making a piece of shit. It's a good picture, but you're better Don't get hooked into the exploitation market, Boxcar Bertha was released in the grindhouse reaped a profit and as you would expect from Corman was pleased and offered him a new project. The idea was simple, ride out the popularity But after Cassavetes' words, Martin said He started dreaming of making his own movie. Together with his childhood friend Mardik Season, which after twenty-seven rewrites The characters were based on the ones from main role was once again played by Harvey While Scorsese's agent looked for sponsors, acting ensemble. After Boxcar Bertha it was an easy task. Many who had worked on his last project happily editors, and lighting technicians to David For the role of Johnny Boy, Marty chose Robert in some pictures and at that time was acting Scorsese and de Niro had known each other other and sometimes saw each other and local And now, fifteen years later after seeing found a special connection to de Niro. Perhaps it was because of Bob's unusual-for-an-actor directors to think that he was slightly autistic. Shooting was delayed for only one reason, That was when Francis Ford Coppola came to finances into the project. Together with Martin's savings, it was about It was a tiny sum but the director was so it even without a budget. Filming in New York was a luxury so Scorsese He couldn't even buy tickets for his team Manoogian's department to help him. Their work was at best, unprofessional. One of the assistants forgot to give the director in the car and the wide shots of de Niro after Martin had to get creative with the editing. Shooting on location took days. They shot everything from apartment building to the cemetery at St. Patrick's Cathedral main event of September. They shot everything that couldn't be reproduced A week later the director was reunited with the indoor scenes. Problems followed him everywhere. The fight scene in the pool bar took three lighting arrangements over 26 times for lack A defining aspect of the cinematography was Instead of the typical rails and carts, the What would later be dubbed an original move just an attempt to save money. The camera attached to Keitel's torso, however, Later the director locked himself in a stuffy Since neither he nor Thelma Schoonmaker were didn't technically have the right to do But a member of the Guild Sidney Levine helped First, he helped them with advice and mentoring, on the credits. They had used the same method when editing It cost another 300 thousand dollars to buy pushed the budget over the half-million mark big. Scorsese showed the first editing draft to role in the second installment of The Godfather. A week later the film premiered at Cannes. Mean Streets received rave reviews and Martin along with Federico Fellini. After that the team went to the New York Film Mean Streets were a hit. Critics bombarded the newspaper columns with Martin collaboration grew. Surprisingly this period of success was marked Scorsese spent the summer of 1973 searching His hopes were set on Paramount since they they had connections with the top people and But the test screening was a failure. The studio's vice president Peter Bart walked waste my time". Two months before, the director had been blacklisted Coppola had been dodging making a sequel in Scorsese in his place. Peter had watched Boxcar Bertha and told Francis Thankfully there was no need for sadness since in love with Mean Streets. The producers who had grown up on those same of New York and were also familiar with the In addition, the head of the studio couldn't play Johnny Boy's girlfriend in the reel, in the country. Scorsese was overjoyed because he had sold been distributing the best gangster movies Despite the rave reviews and praise from critics, It wasn't because audiences didn't like studio's part. The movie was advertised as a gangster ballad not mentioned. Three days after the premiere Warner also The horror film eclipsed the low budget indie And if there was any chance left of success weeks later of A Clockwork Orange and Deliverance. This was a battle that the director's original with. It's amazing that Scorsese was able to return It's no surprise that the picture was not However, The Exorcist got ten nominations, And though fate did not smile on Ellen Burstyn film with her. The actress wanted to do the movie based on Live Here Anymore. The studio agreed and suggested that she choose First Ellen went to Coppola who recommended Burstyn was attracted to the realism and agreed by nature, could barely contain himself when For him the meeting would not only mean getting movie in his career. The actress was worried that the director and the project ensued. To get in the right frame of mind the director His producer became his girlfriend Sandy Weintraub. Bob Rafelson's wife Toby Rafelson agreed wife Marsha became the editing director. MARCIA LUCAS first studio He was terrified of the studio executives, fuddy-duddy editor or a spy--the studios Marty liked to edit, and I felt like I was a movie so I wouldn't cut it, so I'd let But I thought, If I'm ever going to get a movie for somebody besides George. 'Cause if I'm cutting for my husband, wife play around in the cutting room. That's how Martin ended up with an excellent to prove himself from the studio. Two weeks before filming started the director Besides Burstyn, there was Harvey Keitel, Half-improvised rehearsals became Scorsese's Here Anymore. The actors had complete freedom and each successful the script. Martin would go on to use this method in all The budget and support of a studio often fill wary of the cost of failure. Scorsese worried a lot and exhausted the actors The extent of his eccentricity was exposed The team had rented a farm having paid the After seven days the owners returned but when sweating over the finale. As soon as Burstyn had said her final line Two hours later the owners started to hurry Their irritation grew and they started to and tease the director about his lack of talent. Scorsese remembers this episode like a nightmare, being belittled by a pair of farmers. But it was a learning experience and still, the house until he had gotten the result that De Niro would often visit him on set. The actor wasn't just visiting his friend The director talked about making The Last on a biography about Jake La Motta. A month later their arguments moved from the While Marsha Lucas was editing frames Scorsese The first casualty was the scene meant to Warner demanded that Martin's favorite moment All this after for the first time in his career created by the legendary Citizen Kane production The set alone cost 80 thousand dollars. Only the threat that Martin would publicly the scene. Sadly, it was the prologue that got the most The war with Burstyn exhausted him too. Though Ellen was only the lead actress, she Warner had basically created the project for The actress was involved in all the stages or not. When he forbade Burstyn from setting foot It was the price the director had to pay to Angry, but not broken, he won the final battle. The screenplay's finale was a typical happily The couple walks into the sunset and the credits Scorsese felt this was false and in a fit The studio had to re-shoot the finale. The director knew that he would not be able ending so he found a compromise. The finale followed the screenplay in everything the theatrical and factitious moment at the of turning it into satire. That's how he got the illusionary happy in-between the lines. Before showing Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore made a film for himself. It was a documentary interview where he talked York and the life of his ancestors in Sicily. It was a month until the premiere but the of the film. Mean Streets had made him a reputation in There were dozens of producers and screenwriters Paul Schrader. Schrader had been trying to sell the rights turned Scorsese down. SCORSESE MILESTONE 2 Paul had been trying to get Brian de Palma and tiny budget made them turn the project Then Schrader watched Mean Streets, changed give Martin a chance. The only condition was that the main role Scorsese had been dreaming that Travis Bickle at first he prickled at the condition, his his pride. On the 9th of December 1974 Alice Doesn't success. The picture garnered over 20 million dollars Ellen Burstyn had her revenge and won the That year the second installment of The Godfather an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. For Martin, who's presence the Academy had He rejoiced for his friend's success, but to be paid 35 thousand dollars, however he After his victory he could easily ask for price for an Oscar winner. The budget did not allow for such luxuries, hold up his side of the bargain. But despite opposing advice from his agent, saved Taxi Driver. In the spring of '75 Scorsese was getting he was filming Bertolucci's 1900. In between filming he would return to the He interviewed veterans at the army bases two weeks, and then went to Schrader and raided All of Travis' clothing belonged to his Meanwhile, Martin was gathering an all-star In the script the leading lady Betsy was described No one resembling Cybill had tried out but asked, "I hear you're looking for a Cybill Why don't you hire Cybill?" And Scorsese answered, "We can't afford However the actress had only been acting in to explore other facets of her talent so badly Oh how de Niro would hate her on set. Jibes and barbs would give way to accusations The couple would grow to hate each other and Jodie Foster on the other hand, Robert considered and her casting was the subject of heated But no, it goes without saying that the talented 12 during shooting. Before reading the script, Jodie took a series Then she saw a psychiatrist every week. The doctor made sure that the rehearsals and her. She was walked through every violent scene her that it was all an illusion. However, in the final violent scenes, she A few of the scenes were deleted from the was replaced by her older sister. By the way, Jodie had help from the very girl Garth Avery even played Iris' friend in Martin offered the campaign manager role to the pimp on screen. And even though that role was supposed to agreed and rewrote the text to give Harvey In the summer of '75, the beaches of the the real terror was on the streets of New Michael Chapman's lens captured hundreds - which was not part of the author's vision, rather a garbage workers' strike. The strike lasted a few days but because of July to be the worst in the history of the If the camera could have captured smells, film ever. But even without that factor, Chapman was The cinematographer first captured Scorsese's plus his style reminded him of Godard. Michael even filmed the cup with the bubbling Two or Three Things I Know About Her. Chapman's main job was to depict the world to him. During the talk with Besty, the camera pans outside. Martin believes this is one of the most important to look at Travis, and the empty hallway is For the scene where they buy weapons, Sandy personal arsenal to the set and played the The idea of filming the guns as though they by Chapman. However, the moment where Travis aims at the Not the whole scene, but the finale where happen to be in the frame. After filming that scene, the director befriended for his pictures, and sometimes played the Later when Martin's drug addiction escalated, calm the director down. The cocaine and the resulting paranoia led But Martin did not stay lonely long and started writing an article about Taxi Driver during Six months after they met they were married. But let's get back to the set. The number of improvisations was irritating that they continue to exist. De Niro's famous phrase is also an improvisation. The director thought that Bob had been inspired in a Golden Eye but the actor was imitating crowds at his concerts with similar phrases. Travis' order at the diner is an allusion He asked for apple pie with melted cheese By the way, Ed was the prototype for Norman And of course, the music. Martin tried to convince Bernard Herrmann composed the music for Citizen Kane. But the composer declined thinking that the However, after he read the script, he changed After the orchestra had finished recording one more detail. The only long and scary chord. And even though it meant paying the orchestra Soon after that session, the maestro died, of his career. The final fight scene was the hardest. De Niro recalled that besides technical problems serious mood for hours. They weren't laughing because they found and a little frightened. But nobody was more anxious than Scorsese. The Motion Picture Association of America and wanted to rate it X: for mature viewers Movies like that are not released in commercial earn enough to break even. So the rating would have killed all chances The head of Columbia Pictures predictably as well as the one with the alka-seltzer which anti-hangover meds. This evaluation infuriated Martin and he shut Just him, the film, a bottle of Don Perignon, When he was about to give up, he invited three Milius, and Steven Spielberg. STEVEN SPIELBERG on tears, but leaning toward rage. He shattered a glass Sparkletts bottle all We were holding his arms, trying to calm him He finally came out with the fact that Columbia and wanted him to take out all the violence, splintering fingers and the blood spouting They felt the film was bound for an X rating, His friends try to pacify him but he was already First, they took the picture to some New York ready. Then the company United Artists contacted and release the movie without any changes In the end, Columbia compromised and Martin violent frames and softened the tone of the which actually worked in its favor. The MPA took pity and gave the film an R rating. On the 8th of February, 1976 Taxi Driver premiered. At noon on Manhattan, at the Cinema One theater, who looked exactly like Travis, and who had the film. Jodie Foster was denied entry without her During the first weekend, the film made 60 Overall it made 24 million. Four months later the picture received a Palm A year later it was nominated for four Oscars, But the victor in '77 was Rocky, while Taxi Critics were divided into two camps. The first was obsessed with the picture and camp was disturbed by the violence and political The film was seriously accused of propagating die over the course of the film. But, it did have a negative impact. Six years later the reel inspired John Hinckley Before he wounded the president of the United and wrote her a letter, where he promised After being arrested Hinckley spent 36 years 10th of December, 2016. Meanwhile, Martin began working on the musical This proposal revealed a different attitude A 14-million-dollar budget, complete creative the script. A credit of trust which Scorsese had never Unfortunately, this coincided with probably Cocaine replaced his first love, not to mention actress Liza Minelli, while his pregnant wife The filming process fell apart almost as soon Scorsese was incapable of managing the set A fight scene from the movie landed De Niro, room. Later, Martin made 150 extras in costumes his psychoanalyst. MARTIN SCORSESE doing New York, New York. For me it was just the beginning of going out of it just barely alive." The actor's improvisations which he loved besides the musical numbers being comprised This made the editing process hell, since connection. De Niro learned to play the saxophone and the picture was heading towards disaster anyways. Scorsese stopped hearing criticism, rejected the script as she saw fit. The result was a two-and-a-half-hour of chaos in history. The studio was counting on a traditional 40s drama which would be the worst flop of the New York, New York did not even make 50 percent He broke up with Liza, and soon after Julia his family and found comfort in his only remaining The next two years were a fog. Having brought the documentary, The Last Waltz by private plane and told journalists: no And though the musical documentary in the who didn't even accept a dime to shoot it, close to him. MARTIN SCORSESE people, I always found, no matter what anybody said, I'd be the host, but at some point during I'm shooting." For over half a year Martin's friend Mardik the director didn't even read it. In the end, he suggested sending it to Paul to rewrite it completely. When he finished, the Taxi Driver author saw there wasn't enough humanity in the material. However, Scorsese was wasting his life and was just about to start. He had no desire to shoot a sports drama, to one of his favorite novels The Gangs of But not a single studio wanted to finance script. Disillusioned he traveled around the country Isabella Rossellini. At premieres and parties, he would pester ramblings. All the work he'd done on Raging Bull, which ring, Martin took to Michael Chapman. To make sure it was different than Rocky stylistically It was an important detail, but not very productive His love story with cocaine finally ended Martin bought some cheap local product and from his throat. When he returned to New York he collapsed Because he was constantly mixing asthma meds, had almost no blood platelets left. Rossellini had to leave for a shoot in Italy 100 pound fiancee for the last time. However the doctors helped, and he watched him of his first most important addiction. One day De Niro came to visit him and told Perhaps it was this talk which saved Scorsese. ROBERT DE NIRO Don't you wanna live to see if your daughter Are you gonna be one of those flash-in-the-pan and it's over for them?"You know, we can We can really do a great job. Are we doing it or not?" At that point, United Artists Studio had already ready to dump the project. After Rocky, a gloomy drama without any heroic producer. Martin and Robert decided to rewrite the text They went to St. Martin's where De Niro he was his nurse. He helped him to kick his habit and write After 14 days the studio accepted the script. A few times a week they met with the prototype. Jake LaMotta was unpredictably explosive and Once in Martin's hotel room, Jake jumped wall. That day De Niro realized how to play his The rage of the boxer was caused by partial someone to repeat themselves, and this triggered Later the actor sparred with LaMotta over amateur tournament and won 2 of 3 fights. While Robert was consumed with preparations with fear. After the failure of the musical, he thought industry. Only one thought helped him conquer his anxiety, The director immediately started to make his Despite the producers' preferences, he chose The actor had impressed him with his work wanted to work with him. Since he thought the end of his career was Scorsese chose Cathy Moriarty after an open The actress debuted in Raging Bull were both nominated for an Oscar for their But in the spring of '79 no one was thinking On set the director behaved as though he was He threw tantrums and argued with Chapman The cinematographer perfectly depicted the of loneliness and futility. The team worked until every idea was perfectly That is how five weeks dedicated to filming result was six minutes of screentime. Unlike other popular films about boxing, the first time. This forced the cameramen to rehearse no less Even the opening scene is like a stunt. Chapman ran behind the scenes and detonated The last fight scene was modeled after the That is where the director took the pace and that to be one of the scariest scenes in the with the fight. Even though the result was better than their so strained that after Raging Bull Michael Martin daily took the raw material to the For the first time since Woodstock, he legally In order to do this, he had to hire a whole Guild. There's nothing you won't do for a film He even got advice from Thelma's future to film an aging and overweight LaMotta. In The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp Powell by changing the camera angle, changing his Robert did not appreciate these ideas, because of the film. De Niro suggested that he really gain the Bob loved realism on the screen which was They literally hit each other with full strength Robert actually broke Joe's rib. The scene when this occurred made it into So filming took a new turn for De Niro when months, gained over 40 pounds. His last stop was Rome where on the 13th of Rossellini and Martin Scorsese. An exhausting two weeks of filming followed. The friendship between the director and the De Niro was exhausted by every take and Scorsese as quickly as possible. The relationship was hanging by a thread but The last take was followed by nine months Even the sound effects recording was haunted It was said that after the sound was mixed This was so that no one could use the team's The and the producers were busy fighting for Martin's Even the last quote from the Bible reflects On the 26th of May, Haig Manoogian died, Scorsese's The last lines were dedicated to him, as was The premiere of Raging Bull was on the 14th greeted with a standing ovation. After the showing Jake LaMotta asked his wife: Vicky answered: You were worse. MARTIN SCORSESE of worry. Must one make a choice, must it be a matter Academy Award and becoming a millionaire, and starving to death?" the 80s The studio failed to advertise Raging Bull 23 million dollars. And even raving reviews and six Oscar nominations On the eve of the awards, Robert celebrated and after a ten-year hiatus, Thelma Schoonmaker The Academy finally noticed Martin who was time, but the victory went to Robert Redford. Ordinary People beat Raging Bull for Best The defeat was as painful as a punch from Martin knew that he wouldn't be appreciated Coppola, Spielberg, and Lucas. But until that day he had thought that at were on his side. Now he had no reason to believe in success. The film community once again rejected his The crushed director agreed to his next project rejected it. The King of Comedy would serve as a tragedy MARTIN SCORSESE each other on Raging Bull. I should not have done The King of Comedy, from me. I found that I had to convince myself every myself, like very often I was late in the went over budget." Nonetheless, Scorsese maintained that Rupert with him, but unfortunately, it separated The duo was tired and needed a break. Instead of resting, they got a gigantic budget two commercial failures on the director's For the second time in his career, a credit A few weeks before filming Scorsese once again The doctors diagnosed him with exhaustion As soon as he was discharged the director Because of his health, he was only able to out for 5 months. The only silver lining was Jerry Lewis. The musician replaced Johnny Carson who had of his career. De Niro drew him into the world of improvisation Before the scene in the house outside the jokes which helped Jerry not have to pretend This scene was complete improvisation and the script. Scorsese was satisfied. But Lewis could not stand the director's In the beginning, he would arrive on set in The director would arrive around four in the scene that didn't include Lewis. After a week of this the actor couldn't the days he spent waiting or else he would He also asked what was the point of hiring Scorsese paid him for his time and convinced By the way, the decision to keep Jerry's Lewis suggested doing that so that during out his name, it would be as though fans were In this scene, there are no actors besides In the scene when Rupert and Masha are arguing The gang was played by Gerard Depardieu and After four and a half months of shooting Martin The amount of material was horrifying, with For the first two months, he didn't even In addition, he continued to feel sick. He had to go to the doctor daily and treatment In conclusion, his marriage with Isabella Her career really started to take off. Rossellini left her husband and returned to The King of Comedy was widely released a year It made two-and-a-half million dollars. A sum which was seven times less than its It was the biggest failure of the year and Martin was one of the producers and lost some The critics also reacted icily because they duo. In November of '82 at the Odeon restaurant, Although "celebrate" might be too strong Divorce, the failure of his film, and bankruptcy In the middle of the party, Coppola tried Francis had just lost his film studio. American Zoetrope was about to declare bankruptcy. FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA You're broke, I owe $50 million!" Martin calmed down and got inspired by a new The screen adaptation of Nikos Kazantzakis' ever since Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore. He had dreamed of filming a vulnerable drama hardships which the child of God had to face based on the book. Schrader fulfilled his request back in '78. Unfortunately a script with contradicting for violent films and had tanked the last However when Raging Bull got eight Oscar nominations and set aside 14 million dollars for the project. Of course, they were expecting to see De Niro on the set of The King of Comedy, the actor At the same time, the studio was bombarded Spiritual leaders called for a boycott of The team packed its bags for the three-month-long four weeks. While the paint on the set was still drying they had to return their tickets, the project It was a knife in the back which caused Scorsese next 16 years, even when its leadership changed. His years in Hollywood had taught Martin to This time he didn't spiral into depression The owner of a major music label in Los Angeles, influence in Hollywood with his own film company years later to become DreamWorks Studios. But in the early 80s Geffen Pictures made and was ready to invest in new projects. The intriguing plot of a funny thriller called Joseph Minion had originally written it for His professor, the Yugoslavian director Dusan The producers Amy Robinson and Griffin Dunne him to make the movie. He liked the plot but what he liked even more million dollars and guarantee him creative The only condition was that Griffin Dunne The director agreed and squeezed as much out him to smoke, have sex or sleep more than Martin created a parody on the classic Hitchcock The soundtrack copied Bernard Hermann's copied from the thriller Marnie. There was also the exaggerated feeling of The effect was created by Michael Ballhaus amazed the director. The main obstacle was the scene with the keys. The keys falling on the actor were filmed During the first take they were not able to and producers did not want to risk filming Everyone was afraid to get Griffin hurt, except again. But Ballhaus found a way out of the problem and speeding up the moment with a quick movement Paul's intriguing dialogue with the bouncer Before the Law by Franz Kafka. While we're on the subject of quotes, it half of the film was identical to comedian The plot, characters, and even the flying Frank sued the studio and got a million dollars. As for unexpected twists on set, the finale The idea to leave it with the retreating car Thelma Schoonmaker's husband Michael Powell It was a crazy and completely illogical option, It wasn't a sad ending, but during the pre-screenings, Martin gave up but left the public food for After Paul returns to work the camera spins when the main character's table comes into Is this a hint that the finale is just the that's up to you. After Hours brought the studio 10 million the Cannes Festival. Scorsese was reinstated to the Hollywood elite Newman's door. After 20 years the actor was going to film Newman believed Raging Bull to be the best they do a similar screen adaptation of the Paul had neither studio, budget, nor script According to him, filming a movie like this work on mainstream projects, something Martin They chose the author Richard Price for the Price recalls that the duo sucked all the First, he wrote and sent his drafts to Scorsese pages back. Richard would change it and take the drafts and Price would do it all over again. After 36 meetings, the text was finally accepted. The project was picked up by Twentieth Century or the young Tom Cruise whom Paul had brought That's why no one was against it when Touchstone The new investors had some conditions for They would get a budget of 14.5 million and Penalties would be paid by Scorsese and Newman, if the film failed at the box office. The Color of Money became the only film made the deadline, which saved them 1.5 million As for the filming process itself, Tom's For three months he practiced playing pool of his own shots. Martin was sure that the actor could have waste valuable time training him. It's also worth mentioning all the cameos. From billiard stars to a young Forest Whitaker And of course, the scene with the cue... The way Vincent beat his competitors seemed shooter was going to fare in the game industry. The picture also introduced Scorsese to his The producer Barbara De Fina lived with the even after their divorce. On the 17th of October 1986, the film premiered. It would go on to make over 50 million dollars every billiards club in America AND bring In addition, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio and Martin and Richard would continue to collaborate adaptation of the song of the same name by The King of Pop had planned to film the clip of New York film. Price wrote the script based on real events, trying to rob an undercover policeman. The main role was played by Michael himself It was also the last project done together The visual aspect was copied from Westside cost of production was just over two million Only 14 clips in history have been more expensive. The success of The Color of Money and the back and he decided to resurrect The Last The script had been gathering dust for six life into it. In comparison to the conditions that Paramount The budget was half the amount, and filming Morocco. In return, the director agreed to make a commercial Scorsese was ready to agree to any conditions The original candidates for the main roles rejected the project and were replaced with Mary Magdalen was to be played by either Madonna it past auditions and the actress didn't After that, he invited Barbara Hershey with years ago. While filming the director established a dictatorship. He forbade curse words and made the actors This left the paparazzi without any pictures For the main smoker, Willem Dafoe this was Filming had to continue according to schedule cobra while suffering from a terrible flu. Later, Dafoe over did it with the eye drops give him an unusual countenance. Because of the overdose, the actor lost his Of course there were some mystical moments. The finale stops abruptly because of some Scorsese maintains that he found the defect he was already editing and couldn't do anything Coincidence or divine providence, we may never Of course, the main events connected to The filming. Religious groups tried everything from boycotts Many churchgoers were offended by the explicit interpretation of the Bible. Whole cinema chains refused to show the movie, was disturbed by arson which destroyed the Things were not much better in the States, film. And the founder of Campus Crusade Bill Bride to hand over every copy of the film so that After the premiere, the real bullying began. Martin had to be accompanied by bodyguards He even came to the Oscars with a bodyguard. Scorsese's film was nominated in only one It's worth mentioning that it was extremely and not be nominated for anything else. The humble profit at the box office was not With a budget of 7 million, the film made Not long before the picture's release, Scorsese, decided to resurrect a popular 50s cinema Touchstone Pictures gave each director five freedom in return for three shorts which would of New York Stories was the city itself. A few months before the project began Spielberg to edit Indiana Jones. The vacant spot was taken by Francis Ford written by his sixteen-year-old daughter. Martin's segment was a novella about an with a comedian. One of the unique aspects of the picture was Besides Nick Nolte and Rosanna Arquette who Gabriel, the singer Debbie Harry and of course for the stand-up portion. Unfortunately, the forgotten anthology genre But Scorsese did not give up, especially since the novel Wiseguy by Nicholas Pileggi for Back when he was working on The Color of Money the director had stumbled upon a review for That same day he made a few calls and got of the gangster Henry Hill even before it A few days later he was already at Pileggi's As soon as the door opened Martin declared book. The author replied that he had never imagined They worked on the script together, but because Last Temptation of Christ they had to put A year later he didn't want to go back to it altogether. But his friends Thelma Schoonmaker and Michael in perhaps the greatest mafia biopic ever. His interest was piqued again by a new take Schoonmaker suggested that they create a nonlinear order of events. In the process, the title also changed, because was released as well as a TV show of the same That was how Scorsese came to direct the crime The bosses at Warner wanted to find a first-class Martin invited Al Pacino to play the role didn't want to continue to play the stereotypical Ironically that same year he played a typical When the search was not successful the director advice. When he asked him who he saw playing Jimmy The duo's reunion charmed the studio, and budget. De Niro didn't stop there and helped him ROBERT DE NIRO Ray Liotta waited for approval for over a Harvey Dent in Batman. The auditions didn't impress Scorsese, but At the Venice Film Festival after The Last surrounded by bodyguards and Liotta walked pushed him away like a cloying fan. However, Ray was not deterred and continued That was when Scorsese decided to hire him, his cool even during the most aggressive situations. Lorraine Bracco, Harvey Keitel's wife got by Joe Pesci. After Raging Bull Martin had found the ideal Before shooting started the sound editor received He had been compiling the playlist ever since In the spring of '89, in Martin's old Goodfellas. As was his custom, most of the dialogue is created as they went. The scene with the cold reaction to being life of Joe Pesci. When he was young he worked as a waiter and of the funny behavior of a real gangster. Between takes the actor reminisced about that there to film it. The director only warned Ray Liotta, which what was happening with sincere curiosity. Speaking of extras, it's worth mentioning from the mafia world actually took part. Scorsese fans got on set by pretending to at Warner they noticed that the extras were as pseudonyms. Fat Andy on the other hand was played by cop His father, uncle, and brother were all mafia, wasn't above breaking the law. The policeman was given life in prison for The original film prototypes helped its production. There was an anonymous advisor on set who Henry Hill and De Niro spoke on the phone smallest details of his behavior. Like how did he hold a cigarette or a glass? Even how he poured his ketchup. Hill was so involved in the picture that after and he let the paparazzi know where he was. Because of this, the US government excluded The main test of the director's skill was Martin had celebrated his graduation 30 years This scene was inspired by a similar method In order to get the desired effect, it took days of shooting. The sixth attempt didn't cut it because his lines. Besides the long shots, the director was worried This obsession was bordering on absurd. For example, he would not begin shooting until that they reshoot because one of the mafia The hardest scene for Ray was the one where had to try and explain the sensation to an like that and help him to act naturally. Surprisingly, the dominating figure of the His improvisations and unexpected remarks The death of Spider, Joe dubbed the most difficult In order to find the right motivation for of Tommy DeSimone After the premiere Hill Considering the actor is 11 inches shorter Even the final scene, with Tommy's shot It was not just an allusion to The Great Train character. As for the scene with Pesci with the young time it would achieve cult status. The editing of the film was influenced by That was where he got the idea for the voice Surprisingly the violent and bloody parade In order to give Goodfellas an "R" rating a second of material. The studio bosses however were another problem After the pre-screenings the film got the MARTIN SCORSESE Despite the reaction on the 19th of September without any changes. Goodfellas won over audiences and went down Critics sung the praises of the director. It was the reaction he had been trying to It was the pinnacle of the genre that sparked 20 years. The picture was able to eclipse the third three months later. And though yes, the Oscars were mostly dominated Pesci got a statuette that reflected the strength Perhaps the loss hurt Martin's feelings But this time he really believed that he had Thankfully, Martin was wrong.