Ain't it confusing when God calls you one Isn't it crazy when God calls you free it crazy when God calls you loved but your God calls you chosen but you feel left out? who wasn't called to appear before the prophet As a matter of fact, at the moment David was just doing his chores, tending the to anoint another son with oil, &quot;This is not the oil froze until David showed up. The oil to anoint the next king. David did not have This may set you free from thinking you have you have to get the attention of a certain certain way in order for your anointing to be It is what it is before they say preach when there were no people I'm anointed to preach today. The only number of people I'm doing it with and for. is it's one thing to run for something you chose I'm going to find a husband. I'm going to get I'm going to run a marathon.&quot; (The Devil is It's one thing to run after something you you're being chased. I don't necessarily just toward something. That's wonderful. If you're I want to have this much money. By 40, 50 I can have this much...&quot; That's But there is a sense in which you and I both your life is not what you're running to; it's what and they judge you by that. People see what you The significance of the text in 1 Samuel 22 is not running from a giant. No. He's not running from the king, and he is running from what he not sign up for this event. Saul, the Instead, he is beating him over the head with some of us run because we weren't handed what we were handed was hazardous. Some of compels us and drives us. You don't really life to reflect and ask, &quot;Why am I so hard do I always look for how things are going You start discovering that some of the things you not handed to you in the relay that never It's hard to run toward what to run toward wholeness when I only It's hard to run toward wholeness when I only hard to run toward something that has never been like David, running from something I ought to be he didn't. So David is in a cave because of a king The Lord sent me to speak to &quot;Don't let the place you're in you are.&quot; That oil that was on David's It ran down, because when they anointed you in the The Bible says Samuel had a flask filled with full. It was a full horn of oil, and it on David's head to signify David's destiny. know what it really meant at the time, but The oil was trying to tell him that every king in right now cause you to forfeit or discontinue why it meant so much when I went to preach to they are surrounded by signals and When we went in with our worship team and not just once a year, and we &quot;God knows your name,&quot; all of a sudden, were lifted to a place to remember that before This cave situation in 1 Samuel 22 is who decided to run from God. He is not like life to get a gold medal. He is not like Elijah. You want to be like, &quot;Dude, what are down fire on 850 false prophets. but one woman? One anything after what you've Maybe you need an illustration. I All in our backyard we have deer. We that the dog is smaller than the deer. I also if you watch Bo chase a deer, you can This little dog who can't do anything is &quot;This must be the most thrilling event &quot;I can make something this big run, and I don't But I saw a movie in my mind the other day. I at Bo? What if the deer even hissed at Bo?&quot; All because he would realize, &quot;This thing that is bigger is being triggered by emotion so I can no longer manipulate this thing If the deer ever turned around, it would ever found out &quot;I'm bigger than you,&quot; Bo go outside. I told you last week he's he's going to do with a deer? If you ever got The Devil is hoping you never find out you're and fall back, but I see somebody turning around running from you?&quot; I mean, if you're going at least have a good reason. Don't do If you're going to quit loving your wife, because she didn't appreciate you. That's not a reason for you to give up. Look unto Jesus, the set before him endured the cross, despising its &quot;The joy set before him.&quot; What I'm running toward in David's life. &quot;Wait, wait, wait. God didn't him from being chased. He kept him chosen although that there will never be anything chasing us. while we are chased. I'm not preaching everybody. This one is for somebody As a matter of fact, you have hell on your heels, figure out why, and you're like, &quot;But the Bible in his salvation, but run toward his arms for this You know, this preacher from California &quot;I can tell you struggle with depression.&quot; I said, the Da Vinci Code. I tell my church all the &quot;No, I can tell.&quot; I thought this was &quot;I could tell you deal with it because it.&quot; Then he said something. And you know He said, &quot;The tools you use tell me a lot &quot;That's a compliment?&quot; I said, &quot;I'm &quot;No. I just can tell what you've been a helpful way for you to look I have to tell you a little bit more about David. hiding from Saul, who has already thrown multiple on-the-job training. And he has lost his best cave. Now look at this in Psalm 142. This You're going to be surprised what David prayed to use when you're in a cave. Look at verse it is you who watch over my way. have hidden a snare for me. Look and no one is concerned for me. I have no refuge; I say, 'You are my refuge, my portion in I think he is feeling unheard. I think &quot;Listen to my cry&quot; if you feel like the &quot;Listen to my cry, for I am in desperate need...&quot; &quot;Oh, David, I can tell you deal with depression.&quot; &quot;You think so? I put it in the Bible.&quot; &quot;I am in desperate need.&quot; The three people who need this message are the three people who have been running and cannot see what they are running and it has become a template for the track their He said, &quot;Rescue me from those who pursue me, for prison, that I may praise your name. Then the goodness to me.&quot; Now, when he said, &quot;The righteous Some of you all are praying, &quot;God, when you get going to pay my tithes. Lord, I'm going to give (&quot;Do we have 55? Do I hear a 56? Do I hear a 57?&quot;) Listen to this. He's praying, &quot;The He's praying for support. He's praying care. He's praying for somebody to see. screaming in a cave. There's echo [echo, Watch what happened in 1 Samuel 22:1. His father's down to him there. Not only his family, which at who else came. &quot;All those who were in distress &quot;Okay, God. Remember how I was praying for you anybody, Lord. Just me and you, Lord. 'All I And what are they? They are David's 3D army. You distress, they were in debt, and they were with 3D this week. Remember how we were saying comes, and you don't want it because it came in It came in the form of a need. Why need? Come on. Think with me. I can't shout. I have to help you so you know these... You know, he prayed, &quot;God, And here come in debt, in distress, and that again. 'Then the righteous...' You thought Lord.&quot; Now we have a decision to make, church. cave in the moment of greatest need in I will suggest to you it's because David was was anointed. For everybody who is in the always making withdrawals from me and not &quot;Why doesn't anybody tell me 'Good job'?&quot; &quot;Good job&quot; when you do it consistently. surprised by it. The moment they stop being your kids who ate your peanut butter and the jar away either. They just left it in there, They expect you to be on time. They is the greatest compliment, so don't cry &quot;You will know you're a good preacher when because they will all of a sudden become less and they will become more concerned about I put this to you as a personal challenge today. you think God anointed you for? What did you God blessed you with that experience for? You