Today we're going to try to save reality However this rescue effort has a price and one that you may not be willing to pay. According to some your free will is at stake. On its most elementary scale the universe exists in a state of fundamental indeterminacy. Photons passing through two slits at once, electrons being spin up and down, cats being both alive and dead. These quantum superpositions only collapse into single states when we try to measure them. It's almost as though the physical properties of the objects don't reside in the objects themselves, but emerge as a consequence of our observations. Some physicists and philosophers have wondered if reality is fundamentally subjective, whether it exists primarily as a consequence of the Others - perhaps most - prefer to think of independent of the observer. We call that view realism. There have been many efforts to find a realist interpretation of quantum mechanics. Pilot wave theory, objective collapse models, and even the Many Worlds interpretation all seek to describe a reality that exists But there's one reality life raft that we It may have the most disturbing implications of all. Erwin Schrodinger, co-inventer of quantum proponent of realism. In fact his alive-and-dead feline thought to highlight the ridiculousness of extrapolating observer-dependent indeterminacy to large or macroscopic objects. Albert Einstein also came up with a scenario in which he tried to refute the non-realist implications of pure quantum mechanics. Along with Boris Podolsky and Nathen Rosen, he proposed the EPR paradox which was meant to deal a swift death-blow to this observer-centric nonsense. We've talked about the EPR paradox before, but it's really worth a second look - especially given the stakes. In "standard" quantum mechanics, the fundamental building block of reality is the wavefunction, which describes the evolving probability distribution of all possible properties of the world, or of tiny parts of the world. The results of your measurements are plucked from the wavefunction of whatever you're observing. We say that measurement "collapses" the in favor of one actual result. A wavefunction can span multiple distinct, For example an electron can be spinning in This is quantum superposition. And a wavefunction can also span multiple between those particles. This is quantum entanglement. Let's say we have a pair of electrons; each with spin axis simultaneously up and down. But the electrons could also be entangled to be opposite to each other, even if they Measurement of one electron would influence the other in a very real way - something Einstein referred to as spooky action at a distance. Standard quantum mechanics says that this is possible, but it leads to the seemingly absurd result of the EPR paradox. Let's see how it plays out. We prepare a pair of entangled electrons. Their spin direction is undefined; all we We give one electron to Alice and one to Bob who then go back to their separate labs to measure the spin. According to standard quantum mechanics, that spin is undefined until measurement. Upon measurement it will become fixed along the axis of the measurement device. Let's say Alice uses a vertical orientation - she'll measure either spin up or spin down, with a 50-50 chance of each. Say she measures spin up. But that means we now know what Bob's spin must be. It must be spin down, even before he measures it. If Bob then chooses to measure using the same vertical orientation he'll definitely measure spin down. But he could choose a different orientation. A horizontal measurement will yield a 50-50 chance of being left or right for his down-pointing electron. But any other choice will actually be influenced by Alice's original choice of measuring orientation. When the scientists come back together to peculiar correlations between their choices of measurement axis and the other's measured spin. And it doesn't matter how far apart Alice across the galaxy - the apparent influence This type of effect that made Einstein so uncomfortable. A foundational axiom of relativity is that the speed of light. The EPR paradox was meant to show that this sort of undefinedness couldn't be the underlying reality because it violated the cosmic speed limit. He thought that each electron had to carry state, in a way that was somehow hidden from the wavefunction of standard quantum mechanics. We can imagine the same scenario in the case where the electrons do know their own spin all along. In that case the spins are set at the beginning - still opposite to each other, but defined, even if Alice and Bob don't know what they are just yet. The scientists go off and make their own choices for their measurement directions. But now nothing that Alice can do will change Bob's results. When the two compare results, they will see correlations between the spin measurements because the original spin directions were correlated. But there's no correlation between one scientist's measurement results and the other scientist's choice of measurement direction. It wasn't until 1960, nearly 30 years after the EPR paradox paper was published, that physicist John Bell gave us a concrete test for all of this. He derived a mathematical statement - the the electron spins are set from the beginning and contained within the electron - but false if standard quantum mechanics is right and spin is undefined until observation. And it took another 20 years for the first Alain Aspect. That test thoroughly supported standard quantum mechanics. Countless Bell-type tests have been performed since, all with the same result: apparently entanglement is real and is as spooky as Einstein feared. But actually, the results of the Bell tests itself; the world may still have a non-subjective existence. According to the Bell theorem, any local-realist theory must obey the Bell inequality. So the violation of the inequality could be a violation of realism OR of locality. Or, sure, of both. In a local realist theory, every point in influenced by a spacetime event in its causal past - so, near enough to have sent a signal. There are ways to save realism in quantum locality. Things like pilot wave theory and objective On the other hand, Many Worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics saves local realism at the cost of requiring multiple realities. If that price is too high for you, there is I'm not sure you're going to like it any Let's play out the Bell test on something of space only on the x axis and time on the Alice and Bob start out together, acquire in space and up in time. Light travels a 45 degree angle, and so if call the past light cone of Bob's location at his position. But quantum mechanics says that when Alice measures her electron, Bob's electron is instantly affected. That violates local realism. Now let's look at the case where the electrons start out with defined spins. It's no surprise that Alice and Bob observe electron's spins were determined by a single event in both of their past light cones. Alice and Bob may observe correlated information if there's a causal path to both of them. But here's were we find a loophole. The Bell test results are weird because Bob's measurements turn out to be inexplicably correlated with Alice's choices. But that's only weird if Alice's choices wholly in the present moment. Locality and realism would have been saved if it turned out that the states of the electrons were fixed when their past lightcones overlapped. But what if, instead, the future decisions past overlap. In Bell's theorem, his inequality is satisfied in local-realist theories - but there is another condition to the validity of the theorem. That's the statistical independence of the It assumes that Alice and Bob can choose with absolute freedom, or that if they choose randomly, that their random number generator is perfect. But what if statistical independence is an far enough and everything is connected. What if those connections produce sufficient correlations between Alice and Bob's supposedly free decisions of how they make their measurements, and the states of the measured particles? It may still be possible to violate Bell's This way out of the EPR paradox is called Superdeterminism is, well, it's just determinism - the statement that the universe and any system therein evolves in a way that's uniquely predictable by the laws of physics and its initial state. Determinism on its own doesn't guarantee needed to solve the EPR paradox; that's Some have argued that superdeterminism requires a kind of conspiracy of interactions to ensure that two messy meat computers make the right choices based on marginal interactions arbitrarily far in the past. Others, like Sabine Hosenfelder, argue that solution to the EPR paradox. You can watch her video to decide for yourself. Regardless of its plausibility, superdeterminism is a loophole in the Bell theorem that physicists have tried to test. To close the loophole, a Bell test needs to direction is truly statistically independent. And that's ... impossible because if you trace the past lightcone of any two points in the observable universe back far enough they will overlap. Everything has a past causal connection with everything else. But we can at least do a Bell test where the have past light cones that intersect with each other as far back in the past as possible. And so I'd like to introduce the cosmic This was performed by Anton Zeilinger's Their first effort used the light from a pair of distant stars as proxies for Alice and Bob. The "random" color of individual photons number generator to decide the measurement orientation in the Bell test. Now, this experiment used the polarization direction of photons rather than the spin direction of electrons, but it's the same deal. They observed violations of Bell's inequality with extremely high significance, which they claim ensures no local-realist influences except in the seemingly implausible scenario of stars talking to each other and conspiring against us. The same team followed up with a cosmic Bell test using rather more distant objects - quasars several billion light years away. That pushed back any possible local-realist Theorists are still debating how to interpret to be on Anton Zeilinger's side in dismissing it. Sabine is an emphatic voice on the opposing side. Let's stay neutral for the moment and The many Bell tests, cosmic and regular, tell us that either locality or realism are wrong OR there are multiple realities OR the universe evolves in unalterable lock-step determinism in a way that preserves correlations between measurement subject and measurer. The latter has philosophical implications independent of our subjects. But you know what? Quantum mechanics has been telling us that we are not that for 100 years. As for the question of free will - look, when for the thing maybe we can talk. But think about it this way - your mind has Your mind isn't an illusion just because If your choices have a physical, even deterministic, substrate - that doesn't change the fact that right now you know that you can choose whether or not to believe in a superdeterministic space time. Hey, thanks for clicking that play button! Those views are actually really important for us. If you think this show is good enough to deserve even more than one click, you might consider trying out some of those other buttons down there. The like one is good, and the subscribe one Crazily, those buttons require exactly the same motor force from your finger as it took to watch! It's a great deal, and quite helpful to us. Now for those of you who think they could spare several more clicks, and perhaps even a buck or two, you'll find a Patreon link in the Now today I want to give a special thanks to Adam Hillier, who's supporting us on Patreon at the big bang level. Adam, I don't know whether the universe is it sure seems pretty uncertain up here. That's especially true when it comes to planning for the future of a YouTube show. So thank you for bringing us a step closer of our past light cones can remain as recent as possible. In our last episode we talked about the challenges in decoding alien physics due to the hidden conventions that have been chosen arbitrarily in order to break the underlying symmetries of nature. Agnibho Dutta asks if there's any symmetry in physics, which holds for transformations in the color charge? For example, do different color quarks decay the same way? Actually yes, they do decay exactly the same way besides influencing the color charge of their decay products. The symmetry in question is the strong force symmetry, known as the Special Unitary Group of order 3, or just SU(3). It's quite complex, so quick analogies are episodes on it, so hold tight. Olivier Van Cantfort points out that a bigger the units the aliens are using - probably on Trappist-1c. Fortunately, units are actually a bit easier There are certain fundamental lengths, distances, energies, etc. that aliens could use to translate their units. For example, Planck units, or the energies and elements. On that note, Dandelion Stitches points out convention could be resolved by including That's true. If the aliens simply describe the hydrogen charge, we'd be set. Dai Lixiuyuan and MrOvipare point out that the aliens use by their laws of thermodynamics. That's absolutely right, and we should have The second law of thermodynamics says that entropy must increase in the forward time direction. Their expression for the 2nd law should tell In fact these aliens would have to actually - any basic description of the universe they would reveal that. That's why the scenario I outlined was not the actual point of the video - rather, it was a nefarious trick to teach you about hidden conventions and symmetries. Because as Benjamin Heasly points out, aliens would surely give some tests we could run to not risk planetary destruction.The fact incorrectly could be deliberate. What better test for fitness to join a new species is smart enough to check basic conventions in an instruction manual? No Star Trek future unless you can assemble furniture without destroying your planet.