Hello Health Champions. Isn't it funny how some people say that you to generate blood sugar for your brain and carbohydrate in their diet and their blood sugar from? Well if you're not eating it it means else. Now the questions we want to answer are; How does the does it come from? What type of foods? And why the way they're eating change their lifestyle their weight they want to lose weight for the same mechanisms that drive weight up are resistance and disease. And the things we're trying to change blood sugar lower insulin and you can find in order to change the blood test till next are increasing those so that you can reduce something called the glycemic index and the useless because they only created these values carbohydrate. Carbohydrates are not the only The other reason it's useless is that they only So they set a value for glucose which has percent of the weight is carbohydrate. And and a very high insulin index. But then they glycemic index. So bread is in the seventies index and that's why we don't want to pay what they call low isn't really low. The problem almost non-existent. The idea of the insulin really what we're looking for, but there's to talk about the mechanisms, so that we understand don't want to really look in tables after differently and some of those numbers are quite questionable. So if we look at skim milk, that's a product where they have removed the fat, it has all the original are dominating in skim milk and therefore of glucose. It's not real close but it's it's because the carbohydrates in milk is called So some of this insulin index comes from carbohydrate which is broken down even slower. When we look at of the calories from fat. Now we get a much lower but we get a somewhat lower insulin there, but the fat is slowing it down. And when we look way over ninety percent of calories are from as 0 which it isn't strictly but it's really very low. So the lesson is that carbohydrates drive it the most it somewhat and fat slows it down. But what about these people on zero carb diets that still have high blood sugar. That is because of gluconeogenesis. The body is making glucose that glycogen contributes to gluconeogenesis glycogen is already glucose. You're not making of glycogen pretty quickly and then your body fat is bundled with something called glycerin glucose from. And you can also make it from blocks called amino acids and they can be to really understand how different types of different impact on glucose and insulin. The main purpose why we eat protein. We want to turn it into get muscles and bones and hair and skin and protein. Now the protein that doesn't turn don't fit. The things we can't match and use is which different proteins turn in more into body is storage or anabolism - means and muscle tissues. Insulin assists glucose to glycogen and stored which we can only store into fat. But the same thing happens with amino the cell by insulin and then they get stored understand that this portion the amino acid stimulating insulin is minuscule. It is so The reason insulin gets triggered is by protein. So you eat food. It has protein but amino acids. So if you look at this picture these called amino acids and then we string these together by the dozens by the hundreds by the thousands and then they form proteins and then these proteins fold themselves and create about protein. So we to have to break these individual the intestinal membrane. They can only be absorbed can't absorb them. And then once we've absorbed them that have specific purposes in the body. Even though there there are 20 that are used in the human body twenty there are eight or nine depending on are essential, meaning that we have to add the body can't make them, but if we eat these eight of 20 and the reason they don't know quite which is the ninth one can be made from that there's nine of them. We often hear about of the protein being complete or not and we of the protein is being utilized does it turn it turn into glucose and fuel and drive insulin building blocks or letters so if you are going to write, if you're going to spell out nine-letter words You need 9 different letters in this case. Nine essential has nine letters nine different ones. But let's say that you don't have the ninth one and now you go build a protein with nine essential amino those amino acids can you build and the answer have that letter and what this means then into glucose and that means this protein is to eat a variety of foods specially if you there we also have to understand utilization and in the write ratios. So let's say that we have two of the O's and six of the L's and so on can as many as nine letter words. We're trying we make? Well obviously the lowest denominator can spell the word two times and all of the into glucose because they get left over for of these amino acids twice. They may be used for this particular case most of it. This measure this stuff. It's called protein utilization so nitrogen in it that doesn't occur in fat or of protein hundred percent of what you ingest is excreted I know how much nitrogen you ate the urine and the conclusion is whatever stayed blocks - becomes tissue. And like we said that's the utilized portion. One of the best foods in terms of utilization is a whole egg almost half 48% of the protein gets utilized 52% become like meat, fish, poultry, pork, virtually any animal right around 32% right about one-third. And then when we only 17% absorbed. Only about 1/6th. Whey is a dairy of the protein in dairy. Soy is often quoted some say that it's better than animal products own used 17% of it. And the same goes for virtually protein or rice protein only a fraction get glucose and will drive insulin. So the only other issue I want to talk about is over eating, because that is also a huge factor even if you eat something that's supposed to be highly utilized but you eat way way more than the body can you use there's only so much protein that can circulate in the blood and once you into glucose and fuel and be burned because now it gets really really interesting. Now let's start We said a whole egg is one of the best ones only gets used about 17%. Why is that? Because understanding how the body uses this, egg white high glycemic index of 55. What most people protein than white. People throw away the egg good that's the protein stuff, but it turns stop there the egg yolk has the pieces the and that is why that egg white is only partially higher degree and therefore the insulin index So 83% of the egg white gets turn into glucose a few other foods and remember I said that looking at this in 1997 and there's only been there's a lot of discrepancy in the numbers. 51 on the insulin index and fish has been really find out what type of beef or what was in there so it seems very unlikely if that they would vary this much. And then we look 12. We see chicken is at 17, hot dog at 16, all very consistently low and they we see that amount of proteins except the processed hot other stuff in it so basically we see that and the proteins are similar and the fat numbers on ground beef. None at all so I tried to create. I tried to estimate some numbers based on our understanding now. We know that most seem to be utilized at about 30% so that's know that that slows it down so we look the scale and we look at bacon on the other. the fat slows it down. Now if we look at something fat and protein are similar to bacon the only little more moisture to it so the numbers so I just said in my estimate here, in my opinion 8 and 12. if you look at 20%. In the ground beef. Should be a little bit higher cuz there's bit more protein by percentage so maybe 10 it's a little bit higher and if we look at which would be similar to the range of chicken. be a great one next if you want to understand master health thank you so much for watching.