Charmera food stall Chick-chick Chanchikochin&quot; is the highest grade of &quot;hot&quot; in Nagoya dialect. 13 years ago, I converted a light truck and started a food stall in Takayama, when I ate ramen noodles from a small noodle factory, And he said, &quot;This is delicious, So that's when I started to order them. Oh, it's delicious. It's delicious! A wide variety of izakaya menus to go with drinks! Very tasty, this! Passionate food stall made by passionate men Kasugai-city, Aichi-pref. The location and hours of operation are announced on Instagram. On this day, the stall will be open near the south exit of JR Takazoji station. Established 2011 Owner Chiku, 55 years old 16:00 (Staff) Luggage, you can ride. It's Tetris. (Staff) You've got a knack for it. There's a way to stack them. (Staff) How did you get started with the stall? I wanted to do a kitchen car, 12 or 3 years ago now, I wanted to do a kitchen car, and that was when there weren't that many kitchen cars. A friend of mine had a kitchen car, I went to visit him, and he said, &quot;Let's do it too, Chiku-san, I said, &quot;Okay, I'll do it,&quot; because I was already happy to see it. He was running a dumpling shop, I was running a tavern, So I thought I'd do something on the izakaya menu, I bought a car and built it myself. I have a fully equipped cooking space, including a refrigerator and gas stove, in the back of my light truck. This is the second one, The first one, I made the inside by hand. This second unit is, The first car was going bad and I was thinking of changing it. I happened to have a light truck at a friend's place, so he gave it to me, It runs without stress, so it's incredibly useful. (Staff) Where did the name of the restaurant come from? The name of the restaurant when it was a pub Chinchikochin&quot; is Nagoya dialect for &quot;the superlative of hot.&quot; I wanted to make something hot with a hot feeling. Isn't the word &quot;dick dick&quot; nice? Dick dick dick. I'm often laughed at by kids. The most popular menu is Hida Takayama's Chinese Soba Noodles, which Chiku-san, the owner, loves the taste of. (Staff) You used to run an izakaya originally? More to the point, the running, I was 27 years old, and I had a shot bar. You all go out to eat ramen noodles after drinking, don't you? We used to do a little bit of food business, too, I thought, &quot;Well, I've got some ramen noodles, All the employees were looking for it, when they ate ramen noodles from a small noodle factory in Takayama, And he said, &quot;This is delicious,&quot; &quot;I'll have some, So that's when I started to order it. That's what we were doing a while ago, that they were closing up store over there, I've known them for more than 20 years, while also making my own ramen, I just love the noodles there so much that I became a ramen shop. (Staff) What's in it? (In the dried soup stock) onion, carrot, apple, garlic, ginger, green onion, and hawk's claw are in it. (Staff) Do you prepare the ingredients at home? Canned beer and soft drinks are self-service Stewed sausage - 300 yen per sausage Teppan Tonpei 600yen Limited: Cold Tomato Chinese Soba Noodle 1000yen Hida Takayama's Chinese Soba Noodles 900 yen Student's Chinese noodles 700yen Table-top Seasoning 18:03 Order Chinese noodles from Hida Takayama I've had a meal, but I said, &quot;I'm definitely going to eat Chinese noodles here, so I'm not going to eat much.&quot; I boil noodles Pour special niboshi-based soup stock over soy sauce sauce sauce Noodles are boiled and drained Noodles are put into bowl with soup Put special chashu pork prepared at home Put fish paste, quail egg, pickled bamboo shoots and green onion on top. Soy sauce flavor soup with thin noodles. Even small children seem to like the taste. I eat so much! Oh, it's so good! Ramen here is delicious, isn't it? It's absolutely delicious. I should have ordered another one. Delicious! (Owner) Isn't it surprisingly delicious? Very tasty! (Owner) 90% atmosphere. It's a lie~w I drink up all the noodles and soy sauce soup, and finish it all at once. 18:33 Customer orders stewed sausage Stewed sausage Mmmm, delicious! (Owner) Delicious? Delicious! (Staff) Do you cook the sausage in the stew? There's a menu called Ton Hol. What is tonkhor... Sausage stewed with pork hormone (tonchan) We do it from boiling water, here. 18:40 Self-service canned beer is taken out Orders two stewed sausages Oh no! Yup! Green tea high Tonjol stew Making teppan tonpei Sprinkle salt and pepper on eggs Stir in dried soup stock, garlic and chashu pork Put oil on griddle and add ingredients When cooked, pour sauce, mayonnaise and green onions This is so good! Making Teppan Pork Kimchi Pour sesame oil over a bowl of kimchi and chashu pork Crack an egg into a hot griddle. Add ingredients and bake Finish with red ginger and green onion Stir it and eat it. Yum! It's delicious! 19:25 Male customer comes to the store 19:35 The best part of a food stall is that it is a place for customers to interact with each other. 20:00 They order Hida Takayama's Chinese noodles (Staff) How is the taste? (Staff) It's delicious! (Staff) Have you ever been to the store? First time. It was my first time to drink in Kozoji to begin with. It was delicious! Pork horu stew with dipping sauce Green onion lemon Black pepper Steel corn butter Taking food from the refrigerator installed in the kitchen car Food ingredients and cooking utensils are placed within easy reach for smooth operation Teppan Pork Kimchi Hot, delicious pork and spicy kimchi Tasty to eat with half-boiled egg yolk! 20:43 He is slurping the hot noodle and drinking the soup. (Owner) Thank you very much. What day of the week is this place open? (Owner) Next Saturday this month. So it's in pieces. I'll come back to that. (Owner) Thank you. Hida Takayama Chinese Soba Noodles The only chuka-soba with dried sardines Homemade chashu pork is very satisfying 21:20 Chiku's friends help clean up 21:50