What is it like You have to pack carry it up the chamois paths and then rappel down and get everything ready Guys don't and you can have a look We're going to the Tatras and I'd like the hardest route Uvidime, You know that I don't The second one, yellow. A cam from 03 to the second one Black Diamonds stoppers. This video was made the company I work with We've created They're good, nutritious, great Action! This video from the Tatras my long-term partner, who I've been Not only have that Mixit has been but I have some treats Tomorrow we'll be hiking, We'll mix it up... It'll be a great I come from a climbing family. My parents spent As a child, I heard a lot both in winter and summer. I thought it would be nice My dad started climbing where basically a bunch and learned to climb with zero Then they went to the Tatras and first, they went directly above Coincidentally, the most Corona 8b+/8c, leads to Jastrabia veza First climbing with a rope in the Tatras Pavel, how long do you need? Fu**! Well, the onsight I chose the wrong direction. I guess First I went to a hold but then I would have I didn't even know about I started to figure it out differently, it was... I think if it was chalked up, and I'd have a chance. I'll try reading this section later, And you can't see the holds Anyway, even the section and quite moral. I didn't feel confident in it. In the end, I only placed and one camalot Joza was telling me that I couldn't find. Not at all! There are still he can try Onsight is always a lottery, Today there is no chalk because it hasn't and in the sun the white and black rock You cannot say As Adam said, where everything But onsight in the Tatras, where This is still the section This is where he fell. Hopefully, It's sharp. Wait... Yeah, it's sharp, thank God. Is it worth the work? Well... Afterward, when it's done, I might have answered I mean, when I'm taking pictures you kind of cut yourself off So I'm actually enjoying it, The journey to and from the photoshoot But it's always only during that I don't think about Because at that moment, I'm thinking That's more important to me This place is beautiful, So it's good! I have to say, I'm used to climbing in relatively that I calm down there. To the unknowing observer, But I think this route was one of the The problem is that the bolt right at the start, is really deep down, and you place The first stopper but the question is I think you could but if it would hold if you took I don't think it would stay. And only later, you place which would Then there's 3m before you clip the next bolt. At the point where you'd you wouldn't fall to the ground, but you would fall and it would be nasty. So I was climbing with the intention I was using more but at the same time, it isn't simple. And climbing in such a way at the crux Honestly, the route was Well, I certainly ADAM: I warmed up quite a bit, The top out was a bit I asked you But I like to save for the second It's a better experience, And I gotta say, I was I thought that if I knew it But the high-foot move, like, when I actually knew so I was like, As I went I was like, easy, easy... When you look at it, 8 for warming up, But it definitely has I didn't want to establish a sport So, good, It feels sad that if I'd it would have been maybe with but it would A nice 5 top out! With the cranberries! - Great! Like, I expected a lot from that pitch, It's more overhanging, I probably wouldn't fall but you still have to climb, I didn't expect that I figured you would You still have Anyway, I wasn't as if it was above ground And when you climb with the idea you definitely And even when you clip the bolt, but you're still I'm not saying but I wasn't that exposed so it somehow So you're excited, Yeah, it was perfect! The photos... I guess Why are you lying? You've been Yeah, the light sucked. But... I don't know, I'll look at it Sometimes, I look at it later And on the other hand I look at it later and it's not So sometimes - So it doesn't matter. Were you cold? A little. When it was blowing at the top but the rest was good. And it was only for a little while. How was the shooting today? Not very good. It's very exposed, and there's not so I wasn't well-stabilized. But it's OK. I hope it wasn't the worst. So are you happy Well, not downright happy... What about Adam? Adam's good. Too bad he didn't onsight it, As we're used to. As we're used to, Pavel... Heavy backpacks, full of ropes then you must hang there so you don't even get a drink But it's true, that from the editing it's the best job in the world. It's like a half El Capitan, except you're walking for the first But I've never climbed such a nice pitch, There are, of course, but it's quite hard to find in incredibly beautiful granite, and mentally On granite, it's often more like: Here it's: but the easier and you could rest there. And in the sense that you have to hold on because you don't want it takes on a different I'd like to introduce Thank you for your support and becoming Stepan almost reached which is quite so as a reward, here is a T-shirt Thank you for inviting me! I completely sweated out my I cursed everyone on the way up to be a walk In the end, - 2, 3... Thanks again for the invite and for my Thank you, Adam! There's a bat in there And I'm in the bat position. Thank you. I feel like gravity Now I can see the Tatras Hey!