For more than two centuries, Marie-Antoinette has continued Her countless supporters and biographers still seek the slightest detail cut short by the blade of the guillotine. The relationship of the French queen a Swedish aristocrat remains a subject of controversy. Someone proved that she had while others unconditionally maintained incapable of carrying out her duties Did Marie-Antoinette That is the question The answer may lie in the letters during the French Revolution, from the flight to Varennes A number of redacted passages but despite several attempts they remain illegible. Did her supporters cast a veil of modesty Today, a team of scientists is preparing kept in the French National Archives. Will science solve the mystery which has set generations of supporters Housed in the Paris Museum of Music, the scientists of the Center have spent recent months through a state-of-the-art scanner. The laser beams plunge into the heart of the material, and reveal through the fluorescence We'll do the letter Okay, tell me where. Start with line one, With painstaking patience, the scientists map each redaction, and managed what until now The result is striking. I shall end there, my dear and gentle friend, and there is never a moment I shall end there, but not without telling you, that I love you madly and there is never a moment What is a redaction? It's not a simple crossing out. When you write something, furiously cross it out, The redaction here It's a collection of scribbles with characters added, notably letters with tail strokes Like P's and T's seemingly to trick anyone This is the start of the redaction. How many lines? We have that one. Let's try the next line. Therefore, up a bit? Yes, up to the left. I think we can get that whole section. Do you think I shall end there, but not without telling you, that I love you madly and there is never a moment It was at Lofstad Castle, that Count Axel von Fersen The heir of a powerful with close ties to the ruling dynasty. In 1770, he embarked on the Grand Tour When he was presented four years later, as a young man of 19, he made a lasting impression. One evening at an opera house ball, where only the women were masked one of them approached him Fersen soon realized Marie-Antoinette. That was their first encounter, A few months later, Louis XVI, succeeded his grandfather, Louis XV Marie-Antoinette became queen. Fersen left for London He would return to France In the summer of 1778, a charming, handsome young man and presented himself The Queen recognized him immediately. He's an old acquaintance. Fersen was there to offer He was hoping for a post just like his father before him. When the War of Independence Fersen enlisted about to set sail for America. Regarding Fersen leaving Versailles, there's a letter saying that he noticed tears as she watched When he returned to France, He wrote to his sister in Sweden I cannot explain I have made my decision. I will never be bound in marriage. It is against nature. I cannot wed the sole woman the sole woman who truly loves me. Therefore I will wed nobody. The Queen's feelings hadn't been dampened Soon after Fersen returned from America, he was given the command which allowed him to stay in France. From then on, he divided his time and Versailles. The love that Marie-Antoinette helped the young queen to blossom. They saw each other in secret The Queen's private life not here Her private area wasn't far away, because you can see to the left of the bed that led to her interior cabinets. Her private life notably at the Trianon, but also during strolls sometimes to Paris. At the Palace of Versailles, some secret staircases led to these rooms. Marie-Antoinette could therefore receive far from the view of gossiping courtesans. This is the second floor. Amusingly, these rooms, after a long period when it was taboo are now referred to as the Fersen rooms. We believe that not only did Fersen but he may have actually lived here. It might have been an apartment for him There are just two small rooms, but at Versailles, Lots of courtiers but these were next so in the heart of the system. Fersen would come I don't think you can ever say because the Queen wasn't just one person, There was always someone. The Queen couldn't go anywhere alone. Here she could act like an ordinary woman, but is still extraordinary she was madly in love with without it ever coming out into the open. At the Petit Trianon, where she escaped from the weight Marie-Antoinette created Three or four times a week, However, these fleeting moments The troubles beyond the palace gates were starting In the spring of 1789, in an attempt to quell the crisis Louis XVI which proclaimed itself Its members wish to turn absolute monarchy This came as a huge shock Backed by his queen, to surround Paris However, Paris rose up. The king's troops and the Bastille fell. The masses began to call The summer of 1789 and on October 5th, the women of Paris, marched on Versailles, However, what they really wanted to prevent him Marie-Antoinette saw her bodyguards and she herself was chased She hated the revolution, but she too was a hated woman. The hatred of some On October 6th, Louis XVI was forced to leave Versailles, leading the way with the heads Crammed into a small coach, bombarded with insults That evening, they stayed in the Tuileries Palace, abandoned for a number of decades. Traumatized by the violence, the King and Queen felt like prisoners Most of their close friends but Fersen, still present in Paris, refused to distance himself The members of the assembly The only person who wasn't the king. He would gradually realize that the revolution so it was up to him to seize control of it and guide it back to what he had laid out A revolution led by the King, He was a king A sovereign by divine right, The notion of a constitutional monarchy that removed most of his power As the months went by, the King and Queen in a sham of courtly life. The Assembly, now seated in Paris, continued to work that would deprive The Queen believed that the only way out to a stronghold, with the backing of loyal regiments, and thus impose This was why in February or March 1791, those supporters of the royal family began to organize where loyal troops were garrisoned. Don't forget that some regiments Fersen was in on the secret and helped the royal family They managed to sneak out which was under close watch. Fersen wanted to accompany the king but the king June 23rd. All is lost, dear father. I am in despair. The king was arrested at Varennes, Please understand my pain and feel for me. I have time but to assure you The King and Queen where they were locked up The King was suspended from his functions, because he had been caught red-handed Their residence was kept under watch. They could no longer come and their letters were intercepted. Also, many people in their entourage, started to leave. They found themselves with the Paris mob inside the grounds After the dramatic return from Varennes, Marie-Antoinette express her love for him, and inform home of the living conditions From his refuge in Brussels, Fersen was prepared to appeal to the great powers This marked the beginning and political correspondence, which has enthralled biographers June 29th, 1791. I am alive here, my beloved, How concerned I am for you. Do not write to me. This would compromise all of us, do not return under any circumstances. It is known that it was you who helped us and all would be lost After the failed flight to Varennes, Fersen's situation He couldn't return to France knew he had helped with the King's escape. Therefore, in many ways, We are guarded day and night. You are not here. Do not be troubled by my account. The National Assembly will show leniency. Farewell, the most loved of men. I cannot write anymore but nothing in the world could stop me They sent letters either by post Baron Goguelat, was notably charged They also used other means, She would receive a newspaper and inside there would be a letter A highly confidential letter written between the lines They would send each other gifts, with false bottoms She knew all the tricks That's why they were able between 1789 and 1792 and were most likely never found out. Write to me in our code by post addressed to Monsieur de Gougant Send letters through your valet and tell me where to address for I cannot live without them. Some of Marie-Antoinette A code invented by Fersen It was rather sophisticated and quite difficult Remember, she was watched all day long, so she wrote at night by candlelight. In 2008, mathematicians and gradually managed to decipher them. Thanks to their efforts, new passages, The technique used by Marie-Antoinette and Fersen was a form of cryptography It basically uses two secret keys, so two secrets. A big secret in the form of a large table, and a keyword How did the code used by Marie-Antoinette Let's take the phrase we address to you. First, you need a code table and a secret keyword Here the key word is depuis, since. Under nous vous adressons, The N is above the D, Next, you turn to the code table. Each letter of the secret key work is associated The D under the N gives the couple NR, The E under the O gives the letter R, Therefore, When Fersen received a coded letter, he would write the new keyword and referring to the table, However, we don't know and how they communicated it between them. We followed one lead for a while because they both owned the same edition There could have been numbers Was that the page number We studied various editions but came up with nothing. Farewell, I'm exhausted from writing. I have never written so much, and I am always afraid or making a mistake. Marie-Antoinette not just to Fersen, to convince her to return. She sometimes wrote and she also spent time and then writing She spent a huge amount of time writing. Marie-Antoinette and Fersen to conceal their secrets. The words were revealed The letters of Marie-Antoinette were in clear text. However, sometimes there were three dots When we managed to decipher the letters, and found that they were mostly words However, the deciphering We have to give way to the storm. I wish that you do not go to Vienna, you stay near the King of Sweden, In all of this, believe me, I would like to owe you everything. I have strong reasons Our happiness depends on it, since we would have no more happiness Farewell. Feel sorry for me, love me, above all, do not judge me before you hear me. I would die if I was for a moment and I will never stop adoring him. Next, the codebreakers needed to discover sophisticated squiggles, and crossing-outs concealing words Line by line, layer by layer, with precision the scanner maps the chemical makeup After hours of data capture and analysis, You whom I love A year of painstaking work was carried out supported by the Laboratory to decipher 15 letters Here we still have a small area Is this the only letter with particles? Yes, with so many of them in the way. I'll try again. You still can't read it? I'll do it again and test it. Here I'd say it's the end of a word. It looks better than here. Much better. The problem with these letters the ink of the words from the ink used to hide them We analyzed the two inks containing amounts of gallnut, We're now hoping of the two inks will be different so that we can separate Sometimes we can read directly. Luckily, the first ink underneath contains an element In that case, we can read directly. Unfortunately for some letters, so much that you wonder used for the redaction and if so, we can't separate the two. These inks They're kind of homemade. If you shake the bottle, the ink will be more concentrated than when you next dip your nib in because the ink at the top will be thinner as some of the components I stopped here at &quot;horrible&quot;. &quot;Sanction&quot; is my guess, &quot;Situation&quot;? Oh no, not with the number. Not really, there's a T there. The King of Sweden as grand, something or other, The King of Sweden or hussar regiment. What I did with this area was I mapped it again You found the number of letters. Therefore, we must look for posts -Exactly. A military post or something similar, The King of Sweden wanted to give me and a hussar regiment. It's very much interdisciplinary work. We develop However, after that, with Isabel Aristide We have doubts about certain passages. Some are quite difficult to read. We go back and forth with her, the context, That contributes a huge amount to our work double-check, make corrections, When you try to read passages because the two inks are so close and the digital surface scratching you have to be very careful and substitute one word for another. Sometimes, I stop and say, &quot;Could it be something else?&quot; &quot;Am I wrong and giving a mistaken image After the return from Varennes, The assembly had suspended his powers and the royal family at the Tuileries Palace. Secretly advised by Beurnonville, Marie-Antoinette discovered that the king to be freed and save the monarchy. However, that Louis XVI Fersen didn't get it. To him, accepting the constitution meant siding with enraged dissidents, What's more, there was a misunderstanding due to the distance between them. Fersen didn't realize were obliged to ratify the constitution. It was their only chance of survival With death in his soul, Louis XVI Great banquets were held but the revolution was far from over. The King and Queen but began a suicidal political game Our situation has changed To refuse to do so would have been nobler, It is my sad fate October 10th. I pity you However, I understand how dreadful and that you had no alternative. Do you sincerely intend Don't you think there's another way? Do you need our help? Or do you wish us to cease Do you have a plan? If so, what is it? What will become of us, my gentle friend? Without you, there can be no happiness. The world is nothing without you. To see you, to love you, Goodbye, my dear and gentle friend. Never will I cease loving you. We know that's a D. Look closely My dear and gentle friend, Where do you see that? -Loving? You don't agree with me. I've spent several hours on it, going by the dots over the L's, and not added afterward. There's the tale of the D, However, is it underneath or above? A word of one, two, three, so &quot;adieu&quot;, goodbye. Yes, and you can see the U of &quot;adieu&quot;. In the last word, I thought it was &quot;adieu&quot; Now you say &quot;adore&quot;, I can see it. That's the problem. You can see that over &quot;adore&quot;, he wrote a T in the redaction, so you need to forget that vertical line. However, when you first see it, you wonder if the T might be underneath. My dear and gentle friend. My God, how cruel it is to be so near To tell you how much we love each other, and that I live Adoring you is my only consolation. The redacted passages reveal the true love We had a few love letters from the Queen, Now we have our first love letters Louis XVI inspired deep distrust of the Legislative Assembly. They were convinced inside the kingdom and abroad, where French aristocrats December 5th. I deeply feel the horror of your position, but it will never change or by the excess of evil. The present evil but you would always be miserable and the kingdom Never will you win the factious. They will accustom the people Marie-Antoinette took control and, in this, from his refuge in Brussels. He corresponded acting as a kind of ambassador. December 9th, 1791. I think like you However, The bishop should have told you already Only today, Monsieur de la Porte, gave him your packet. The King now has water Fortunately, he has not had the time Therefore, dear friend, for the good of all three of us, especially regarding political affairs. Goodbye, my friend. Marie-Antoinette was determined about the affair for the King's sake. She didn't want him to suffer from it. She wanted him to perform as best he could Therefore, this was no ordinary trio. It would be necessary for me to see you. My God, how happy I would be. I would die of the pleasure. I could leave here with the same officer The pretext would be who had kept my horses I would arrive in the evening and would stay, if possible, until the following evening, It seems feasible. We learn something extraordinary Fersen was accustomed because he says very naturally and stay until the following night. That shows it wasn't the first time It is utterly impossible It would compromise our happiness. Believe me when I say it, Sometimes I do not even hear myself, and I am obliged to think before realizing However, what can one expect? How is your health? You're wrong not to, and that your entire self that you must take care I have not a moment to myself, what with meetings, writing, The latter occupation, is my only happiness in your absence. When I am sad, I take my little son in my arms That comforts me for a moment. Goodbye and goodbye again. After how is your health, You are wrong not to, You're no longer the master of it to my existence that you must take care That's very, very important because this is extremely personal. I was convinced we'd find something However, your entire self that's extremely powerful. It's heavily charged with emotion. Of course, There's nothing saucy, no direct words, no situations described. In any case, because these are letters a queen, and an aristocrat. It isn't a libertine correspondence. This was the 18th century, and people didn't mention sex As you said, there was a degree To Fersen, Marie-Antoinette a queen, perfect. She said he was perfect, too. Absolutely. -Excellent work. There are still a few frustrations but we've made serious progress We suspected but we didn't have proof. What's extraordinary that we can see is that their love was hidden because the Queen It was forbidden for a queen other than her husband. There are two hypotheses In the 19th century, one of Fersen's descendants, published these letters, He could have kept them, to hide a text he felt It's also very likely that Fersen himself carried out redaction because he kept them on his person, and they would be intercepted Fersen was determined to see the Queen and propose another escape but the Queen kept putting him off. This is no time to come, despite the pleasure Finally, early in 1792, Marie-Antoinette agreed to Fersen Fersen precisely told off his visit which is kept February the 13th, fine and sunny left at 9:30, arrived without incident at 5:30 Went to her room, took my usual route, fear of the National Guard, her apartment and marvel, When someone tried to read stayed there. The diary resumes on Wednesday, Fine and sunny. Saw the King at 6 p.m. There's nothing noted and Wednesday evening. There's been a lot of speculation but what is certain, is that he presented and once again it was turned down. There must have been some heated words They certainly declared but she must have told him and would remain at the king's side. It was a very passionate visit for Fersen, Fersen kept a registry of the letters Marie-Antoinette appeared until February 1792. After that day of his visit, the pseudonym was dropped I think this was a precaution because the political situation All letters had to be shown to Louis XVI. The letters You also wonder whether Fersen were entirely trustworthy Most members the counter-revolution inside France and war declared on any nation Armed conflict would force the King for or against the revolution. This would be a test of truth Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette that France lose the imminent war, and that foreigners along with the full powers April 19th, 1792. I am dreadfully spied upon at this time. Perhaps I shall no longer be able The ministers and the Jacobins to declare war They hope this will frighten the emperor, May God prevent this, so that at last we may be avenged for all the outrages April 24th. I received yesterday and I am thankful. It is the best and only way The Empress of Russia of actively intervening and that she aims to restore the monarchy On April 20th, France declared war and thus the Emperor, The war went extremely badly for France because its army had lost a huge number It was disorganized that had only just begun. Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette waiting for their moment of triumph, and they would recover In Paris, people began suspecting and accusations There was talk of an Austrian committee which had leaked the campaign plans There was a first riot on June 20th, 1792. The king was forced to wear and drink to the health of the nation who had invaded the Tuileries Palace and broken through the doors Hasten if you can, for our deliverance. I still exist, but it is a miracle. The 20th was an awful day. It was not I who was the chief object. It was my husband's very life They no longer conceal this. He showed firmness and strength which made an impression but our danger Your situation fills me with worry. Your bravery will be admired and the firmness of the king You must continue in the same way, strive not to leave Paris. That is the capital point. It will then be easier to come to you. That is the Duke of Brunswick's plan. He will proceed his entry in the name of the Allied Powers, and notably Paris, responsible for the persons The lives of the King A delay of one day The manifesto must be sent at once. It is awaited with great impatience. It will rally many people The troop of assassins increases daily. They are working on the manifesto. I have written one It is very good Nothing is promised to anyone, we are pledged to nothing, and Paris is made responsible If the least violence the King, Queen, and Royal family, the emperor's forces will inflict by delivering over the city of Paris and complete destruction, and the rebels guilty of the outrages It was an extremely violent manifesto and didn't have the desired effect at all hoped that the French would rally to protect them On the contrary, and thousands of them from all districts and at dawn, the palace was attacked. On the morning of August the 10th, an armed mob lined up in battle formation demanding the removal of Louis XVI. Amid panic and confusion, the King and Queen were advised Soon after their arrival, Three days later, handed over the royal couple which locked them up in the temple prison. That same day, which she would never receive. August 10th. My concern for you is extreme. I do not have a moment's peace. I fear that you were unable There would be no further letters between Marie-Antoinette Ferson learned of Louis XVI's execution He strove in vain who in turn was executed He did, however, scribbled on a piece of card. My heart is all yours. On the day after the execution, She for whom I lived, she whom I loved so much, for whom I would have given is no more. She lives no longer. My pain is so dreadful. I wish to gather of this great and misfortunate princess, Everything about her is precious to me. Oh, how I reproach myself I know now how much I loved her. He would love her all his life. He would love her differently. He would place this misfortunate queen Blaming himself for not being able He would never marry. Seventeen years later, in Stockholm, Fersen died on the day of the funeral after being attacked by an angry mob. A crazy rumor went around He died in atrocious conditions after being struck by swords, trampled on, and then his naked corpse Fersen was killed because he was a servant In a way, with the deaths of Louis XVI Fersen too was the victim of mob fury. He would be found innocent and buried in his family's vault She whom I loved so much, for whom I would have given She lives no longer. My pain is so dreadful. I shall end there, but not without telling you, that I love you madly and there is never a moment