For thousands of years mankind has been perfecting the laws of physics using nothing more than to allow huge loads to be moved very easily. This is only possible because cleverly designed to amplify forces in some way. The amplification of a force is called mechanical of mechanical advantage a specific system the system divided by the input force. To illustrate this consider a mass of 100 kg. To lift it off the ground you need to apply But if you use a device with a mechanical To explain how this is even possible, this pulleys and gears - that are able to do just that. I've also covered a fourth way of generating in a companion video that you can watch The best way to get access to Nebula is by signing up to our bundle deal with this video's sponsor CuriosityStream, but more about that later. Let's start with the lever. Consisting of just a beam pivoting about a of the simplest ways of generating mechanical Consider the amount of force we need to balance When discussing levers it's common to talk and an effort, which is the force that needs It's quite obvious that this system with only be balanced if the effort is equal to But what if we move the fulcrum away from We now only need a much smaller effort to But why? We can explain this by considering the rotational Both the load and the effort have the effect are generating moments about the fulcrum. A moment is a quantity that determines how a specific point. It is calculated as the magnitude of the force the line of action of the force to the point For the lever to be in rotational equilibrium balance each other. We can then easily calculate how large the on the distances a and b. Earlier we defined mechanical advantage as so we can see that for a lever it is calculated By moving the fulcrum we can change the mechanical Putting it very close to the load means we smaller force, which is incredibly useful. It might seem like the lever is somehow breaking into a much larger one. But it's important to remember that levers The amount of energy used to lift a mass is multiplied by the distance over which the So although the force applied to lift the it needs to be applied over a longer distance. The amount of energy used is always the same, All devices that generate mechanical advantage they convert a small force applied over a long distance The pulley, which is essentially just a wheel cable can run, is a bit more difficult to more possibilities for generating mechanical Let's look at a simple configuration where is attached to a mass. If a large enough force is applied to the This system allows us to re-direct the force on the rope at an angle instead of having but it doesn't actually provide any mechanical a 1 kN force has to be applied to the Because the rope is being pulled on by the of the mass at the other, it's subjected to In reality a slightly larger force will need the pulley, but to keep things simple we'll Let's look at a different setup now, where to the mass instead of the ceiling. This small modification completely changes but we now only need to apply half the force This system has a mechanical advantage of 2. The reason is that the mass is now supported To better understand what's happening let's There is one downwards force, the weight of two parts of the same rope that are supporting the pulley. The tension in the rope is constant along be equal to each other. And for the system to be in equilibrium they We can conclude that both upwards forces are Since half of the load is taken by the ceiling, of only 0.5 kN to the end of the rope. To make this system slightly easier to use, of pulling up on the free end of the rope Like with the lever, the cost of dividing the to apply that force over a double the distance. The additional distance comes from the fact to raise the mass, instead of just one. Adding even more pulleys allows us to achieve This system has a mechanical advantage of The mass is supported by 4 rope segments so an input force of 0.25 kN. Because using this many pulleys takes up a combined into two blocks, one movable block block that is fixed to the ceiling. Gears are another type of simple machine that The teeth of one gear interlock with identical can be used to transmit and multiply forces. In each set of gears we can identify a driver shaft and transmits force to a follower gear, In this case the follower gear, which has which has 40 teeth. Since the circumference of the larger gear gear must rotate twice for every one rotation This configuration is called a speed multiplier as the driver gear. To understand how gears can generate mechanical through the system. This motor provides a torque of 100 Nm to the driver gear. Torque is a moment that acts about a longitudinal the force multiplied by the distance to the The torque of 100 Nm is equivalent of 100 N at a distance of 1 m, or The input torque causes the driver gear to between the two gears. We can calculate the magnitude of the contact between the force and the axis of rotation, The contact force causes the follower gear can be calculated as the product of the contact This tells us that the mechanical advantage radii of the two gears. This is the same as the number of teeth on teeth on the driver gear. With 40 teeth on the driver gear and 20 on has a mechanical advantage of 0.5. Doubling the speed of the follower gear comes But if the smaller gear is the driver gear, of 2 - the output speed is halved but the Even when a system has more than two gears number of teeth on the first and last gears. This means a third gear, called an idler gear, gears turn in the same direction, without Using a small driver gear to turn a large how a hand winch works. A drum around which a cable is wound is attached gear is driven by turning a handle. The larger number of teeth on the follower handle is amplified, allowing heavy objects Levers, pulleys and gears aren't the only Hydraulic systems, like you would find in of liquids to generate mechanical advantage, which makes of landing gear in aircraft flight control If you're interested in learning more I've into the detail of how exactly hydraulic systems and the different components you need to build Nebula is a creator-built streaming site that's or extended Efficient Engineer videos, but 100 other educational creators on the And here's the best part - you can get Nebula who have kindly sponsored this video. Where Nebula is the home of independent, thoughtful budget high quality documentaries, and with able to find something interesting to watch. One excellent series I'm watching at the With impressive animations and interviews the beauty of bridges, highlighting the most and charting how the form and function of evolved, from wood to stone, stone to iron, It's just one of many great documentaries With the CuriosityStream and Nebula bundle documentaries on CuriosityStream, and loads all of these Efficient Engineer videos you And if you sign up using this link, it will It really is a great deal. So head over to curiositystream.com/efficientengineer, bundle deal. And that's it for this look at mechanical Thanks for watching!