Kings Mountain was the first setback for Lt. With his flank now exposed and his forces severely Carolina into South Carolina. Heavy rain at the Ford and wait for the weather and his own health and in a backcountry already stripped of forage, becoming desperate. He would either have to win of the previous years' conquests. The famous and This video is made available for free thanks to content through our program of exclusive who get two documentaries per We've got a growing collection featuring the First Unification Wars, and a review of the covering the Russo-Japanese War and Albigensian week by week coverage, and a All this is made for, and with generous enjoying our content and want to both see consider becoming a youtube member or to public content, a spot in our lively discord We rely on our backers to support our so thank you to everyone already involved, The British Situation France and its ally, the Kingdom of East India Company's hegemony . In the Caribbean and sugar islands fell. An attempt to was ruined by the Great Hurricane of 1780 . The hemisphere sank 15 British warships and demasted only one French frigate sunk. Worse, it left no the naval facilities and forts. Survivors reported air. It seemed nature itself had turned on West Florida had all fallen to Spanish Louisiana's when another hurricane scattered the Spanish fleet Gibraltar had survived its first trial , Lord North's government had been unpopular war going increasingly poorly, it was teetering for peace at any price were gaining strength crumbled. As Cornwallis' victories had been Germain were increasingly pressuring him to Allied situation, Washington's Things weren't fully going France's way either. it was proceeding too slowly. French finances in debt, Louis XVI's personal credit was cratering France's currency was being spent on its military, Army. France couldn't afford to continue fighting decided to take a more active role in North Orders were issued to more actively support the the opportunity arose, but French officers weren't on French terms and at French convenience. George Washington and the Continental Army. Over New York , even repelling several attempts to of Benedict Arnold in September was a huge but Horatio Gates' humiliation at Camden was the arrogant and obstinate general while also that open, decisive battles would win the war. whom Washington wanted in command all along. To Horse" Harry Lee's cavalry and asked Daniel fight in the backwoods. Greene had proven to be strategist, and the rough terrain of the Carolinas gave Greene two primary orders: First, to Greene took command of the Southern Department soldiers ready to fight, of which only 950 were brought that up to 2000, but Cornwallis' There were limited reinforcements and who weren't keen to fight in the fall rains or refit and resupply his army on the march, moving withdrawal. Morgan joined him on December 3rd, Cornwallis, who was growing desperate. the Carolina backcountry from desertion, hunger, were under constant militia harassment, and no orders from Commander-in-Chief Henry Clinton were vision of how. Clinton was distracted, clashing strategy. The men couldn't and wouldn't work war without the other. Thus, Clinton de facto year's strategy to Cornwallis, who planned to Laying the Trap council agreed that fighting Cornwallis in open into dividing his army into defeatable chunks and achieve this, Greene first sent Lee to link Cornwallis' supply lines, hoping to draw off Morgan would take 400 regulars and end of the Catawba to reassure the populace, Cornwallis learned of Morgan's movement shortly Further, his intelligence wrongly told him garrison at Ninety-Six . Tarleton's light troops reaching Ninety-Six and realizing that Morgan and received heavier troops to confront Morgan Quickly learning that Tarleton was after him, the Broad River, arriving just past Hannah's the march to catch up across swollen rivers exhausted. Knowing that Tarleton would immediately troops to take advantage of Tarleton's arrogance. and Pacolet Rivers, making sure his soldiers or death. Second, he placed his regulars on a encourage Tarleton to launch a reckless attack, he orders to fire two volleys before retreating into he placed sharpshooters, whose primary job was of pausing to think. Tarleton roused his 1150 men at 02:00 on marching and the third without food. Learning Tarleton pushed his men harder, smelling another Tarleton prepared to attack immediately, on the wings, and his Legionaries in reserve. Tarleton ordered his dragoons forward, only waiting for the dragoons to reform nor for all his charge. The sharpshooters withdrew to the second retreating. As expected, Tarleton took the bait Continental regulars. As the center began to the American right. The Virginia militia in the began an orderly withdrawal. The Highlanders broke to realize their mistake, about-face, and fire At the same time, the Continentals launched line. Many exhausted regulars simply threw Tarleton ordered his Legionaries to attack, a final charge with 50 dragoons, only to be Tarleton and the American commander wounded each than 200 British soldiers escaped the battle at Tarleton rejoined Cornwallis, the latter snapped he'd easily won every other battle he'd ever his arrogance had cost Cornwallis a quarter of Race to the Dan within a few hours of the battle to regroup with react strongly to Tarleton's disaster. His but to retreat following defeat was disgraceful. honourable solution was to move out and crush own words, "The loss of my light troops could only Cornwallis ordered all but the most crucial the forced march north faster . After forcing the Catawba fords on the 31st, he was delayed Meanwhile, Greene moved to reunite his command. with Lee rejoining on the 7th near Guilford withdrew along the backcountry roads, marching Cornwallis was 35 miles from Greene, moving fast Greene detached his light troops, sending them on Cornwallis from the slower-moving main force. It Greene escaped across the Dan midday on February every watercraft on the river. The light troops over the river by less than three hours. Pyle's Massacre Cornwallis withdrew to Hillsboro to forage as the area was already thoroughly depleted. Cornwallis resorted to indiscriminately plundering found Halifax County, Virginia, rich in food, and refit, Greene dispatched Lee back across the capture or kill Tarleton if the opportunity arose. on untapped Loyalists flocking to the royal Pyle from Chatham County answered. Lee found them Loyalists mistook Lee for Tarleton, who was the men wore similar uniforms. Once inside the scattering the rest, breaking Loyalist morale Battle of Guilford Courthouse February 22nd. With his army reduced to 2000 men across Alamance Creek, still hoping to receive made camp 15 miles away to pin down Cornwallis. to force a battle and march out of camp. Greene, retreated to Guilford Courthouse and made ready to the scouts collided near New Garden Meeting tactic of deploying his army in three lines: the Carolina militia and Virginia riflemen, the second and artillery . Cornwallis arrived on the field The battle developed as at Cowpens, with the British before retiring behind the third. rested and began pushing through the third line. overwhelm the British line. Realizing the danger, into the melee, killing both Continentals and melee. To avoid another Camden, Greene but it was utterly pyrrhic. He'd suffered 526 and gained nothing but more uninhabited as a great victory were laughed out of Parliament. suffered through torrential rains for the next but his strategy had always been, as he said, Cornwallis retreated to Hillsboro again, again and again none came. Lacking any other choice, the Royal Navy could resupply and reinforce him. but he didn't take the bait. So, Greene he'd retaken the southern interior, with the Yorktown Campaign limited supplies and paltry reinforcements. London violating chain of command protocols and didn't know how desperate Cornwallis actually left Cornwallis conflicted. His only orders but that was impossible without substantial Virginia, where British Brigadier Benedict were campaigning. Pressured by Germain to move the Carolinas and began marching north. economic devastation on Virginia while Marquis under orders to first preserve their armies and Arnold were camped near Petersburg when up with them. As he did so, he indiscriminately seeking food and horses for his soldiers Move to Yorktown finding Phillips dead of fever and the soldiers command, Cornwallis sent Arnold back to New York While waiting for the response, he decided to either Yorktown or Portsmouth, choosing the winning some minor engagements. Meanwhile, French army under Comte de Rochambeau, which in Newport for the past year, was being now under Comte de Grasse, might be able to finally have the numbers for decisive action. knowing the southern colonies were now lost again. Clinton had bigger problems. The French arrived they were planning to storm New York. Apparently Clinton sent two letters, one ordering Cornwallis and send all unneeded troops to defend New Cornwallis chose to move there instead. On July new orders arrived. Cornwallis was to instead Yorktown to build a deep-water port at the navy's whole army and sailed for Yorktown, arriving Back in New York, Washington actually was hoping all his officers and Rochambeau were against a softer target. Washington held out until August De Grasse had the discretion to sail as far north Caribbean gains. Determined to sail north, would protect French colonies now in exchange for enabled him to set sail on August 15th . Realizing agreed to move south. Taking his best troops with Virginia on August 19th. Lafayette was ordered to New York, Washington used a multilayered substantial garrisons . First, the Culper Ring fed to attack, then disinformation about his plans to march along the New Jersey shore, carrying attack Staten Island. Third, he kept the target of Clinton didn't believe his scouts' reports Battle of the Chesapeake Meanwhile, the Newport fleet had sailed for siege equipment . The British were aware of Arbuthnot's replacement, sailed with 5 New Caribbean fleet to intercept de Grasse. find de Grasse's fleet in the Chesapeake, who While de Grasse scrambled to get his Graves moved to block the bay's mouth . Graves didn't try to intercept the French as when the French were moving east from the bay The fleets' vanguards engaged at 16:00, with fleets drifted eastward until nightfall. The older but the battle was otherwise a tactical draw. The September 9th, when the Newport fleet successfully his mission, de Grasse returned to Yorktown The Siege arrived outside Yorktown on September 17th after first time since the war began. By September and militia and 11,000 French soldiers was siege. The allied forces bombarded Cornwallis' city over the coming weeks. Despite constant came from Clinton. Clinton had promised to send but Clinton's war council concluded that relief was impossible. It would take too assuming they could even break out. Thus, any Graves wasn't ready to sail until October Following the allies successfully storming his at Gloucester Point , only for a storm to wreck no relief in sight, Cornwallis surrendered on honours of war, only to be told that he'd get the Charleston. Humiliated, Cornwallis refused to he sent his subordinate Brigadier Charles O'Hara accept and directed him to Washington, who in exchanged Lincoln. An apocryphal tale claims that Down" as the soldiers laid down their weapons. Yorktown didn't end the American Revolution. led to the end of the war two years later. In wrapping up the conflict that birthed the modern you don't miss that, make sure you are subscribed Please consider liking, subscribing, commenting, have started releasing weekly patron and YouTube ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals