Welcome to the launch of from the Stanford Doerr My name is Arun Majumdar. Let me just give you a little context. Building on five years of the Doerr School of Sustainability last fall in 2022, just The school was built on a vision to create a future Question is, what is needed? So just a little framing-- there are 8 billion We have $100 trillion 80% of which is powered by fossil fuels. And given the urgency of climate change, we need to create a whole new adaptation measures for communities, and restoration of nature This will affect every human being and institution all part of nature. We are talking about the biggest transition This cannot be achieved by extrapolating the We need big ideas, and we need innovations. So the Big Ideas Lecture Series is a special to Stanford to consider matters of Earth climate engaging the entire Stanford University community Talking about global thought leaders, someone doing something about it, and someone who to have Bill Gates help us launch this Big Bill is someone who needs no introduction. But let me say something that I said when For all he has done to save millions of lives the reputation of the Nobel committee will Prize. I hope you agree. [APPLAUSE] I hope that we will-- each of us will see to learn and engage but also be inspired to I also want to acknowledge and thank our moderator. My friend, Thomas Jaramillo, is a professor-- --is a professor of chemical engineering and leader in efforts to develop innovative materials and chemicals. When we launched the school last fall, I called Luther King, Jr., that we need to act with With this afternoon's discussion, that fierce So I want to thank you all for coming here. And let me just give a warm welcome to a Stanford stage. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, sir. Good luck. [INAUDIBLE] What a great crowd we have today. So wonderful to see you all. Really, my pleasure to serve in this capacity Mr. Bill Gates today. Bill is many wonderful things. He's an entrepreneur. He's a philanthropist. He's a writer. He's an investor. He's a thought leader and a mover and shaker planet-- health and climate, among others. I know many are excited to learn from your And I just want to say thank you for taking You're an inspiration to many. Thank you so much, Bill. All right. [APPLAUSE] So I have a number of discussion topics that I also have some questions. I want to thank in advance the many students We do have those questions. We'll get to that, to the latter part of today's But first, I want to start with the origin The origin story-- many of us recognize your More recently, you have putting more time breakthrough ventures and among other activities. And the question I have for now is, how did How did that pivot start? How did you become interested in climate? And let's start there. Yeah, so I stepped down as CEO of Microsoft for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation And my wife at the time, Linda, and I had resources go back to? And we primarily ended up focusing on work There's a mindblowing market failure that nutrition simply don't get any investment, are very poor people. And so science isn't grabbing on to those And that work has been very, very rewarding. In fact, I was just over at the medical school, helping us come up with new vaccines and new But it was through the going out in Africa are farmers-- that's the primary thing people 100 years ago. And they would talk about the challenges of And their yields are only 1/4 of rich country the seeds or give them the credit for the And so it was through that lens that I thought, met people like Ken Caldeira, David Keith. And they started explaining to me what I should And that's when Arun and I first met. And so based on that, I was saying, look, And if you look at the hard-to-abate areas, very low. The foundation does our climate adaptation to help those poor countries. Because it fits in with the health work that But mitigation-- energy markets are these You've got to get literally hundreds of billions And so in the Paris Climate talks, where I on the agenda, saying that to the White House. They wanted Prime Minister Modi from India Turned out, innovation was the reason that that India was engaged in that anyway. So we did-- in 2015, when that Paris Agreement It was called Mission Innovation. And I committed to create Breakthrough Energy And then, in the next few years after that, including John Doerr and many others. And that's when Breakthrough Energy got created. And it has a variety of activities I'm sure One of them is venture funding, only of companies climate emissions. And so now, there's over 100 companies in every area of emission. That's outstanding. If I could maybe dive a little bit deeper say that there's a lesson learned here. I really found it very interesting that you-- nutrition, that really brought to your attention energy. And just an encouragement to everybody that talented students in the room who are doing Be open to recognizing, sometimes there are When you're attacking one problem, there might what's needed. Let me try to draw a little bit more from I also want to recognize that I've appreciated your perspectives, how you have really engaged others to do so-- through energy, through And it gives you a vantage point that is somewhat And your willingness to share that knowledge to help inform our activities. And so I guess one question that I have, regarding zoom out all the way and just think about trends that you see happening, what are the where the globe has been before where the society is kind of evolving into the future. Because that's the future that we need to new government policies, new economic markets, So what are some of those global trends that - Well, most trends are extremely positive. I mean, human innovation, our understanding that's advancing-- including now, the ability of those areas-- when you think about progress, progress, and you want to avoid those. And then you want to accelerate the good progress A lot of people are not that aware of the In global health, for example, at the turn every year under the age of five. And now, we have that down below 5 million. That's because we took-- did new vaccines children-- the poor children who were at risk diarrhea and pneumonia, just weren't getting And so that type of improvement is kind of about, wow, how do we do more things like The big scary things-- climate's very high AI-- when I grew up, nuclear weapons was a And it's not like that concern has gone away. I mean, we haven't actually run into the problem. You know, bioterrorism, in which if somebody primary way to go about doing it-- and then So there's some things we'd like to avoid improving the human condition, in which over a fantastic job on. Oh, that's excellent. So all these things that you mentioned-- maybe little bit more concrete, in terms of those the things that you're up to today, the things ahead? Well, the Gates Foundation will continue to Some diseases can be eradicated. Polio is the one that we're very close on. And if things go well, in the next two or that would give us the energy and the resources And in the meantime, we can get the disease very dramatically. We had a goal that the world set through the that we were very involved in, to go from by 2030. Because of the pandemic, the war in Ukraine, that goal. It'll be somewhere between 2035 and 2040. But even in the face of climate change, indebtedness things, because of innovation, which is-- nutrition that will help those kids, even Anyway, we'll do that next after, too. That gets us to where the world-- that 2.5% The rate in a rich country is, like, 1%. So you're not at equity, but you're pretty Super. Now, let me ask a question that might get I want to hear what's kind of catching your for energy and sustainability. Well, the goal of zero is a very demanding If we were trying to reduce emissions by 20% big areas of emissions and saying, OK, let's Let's not do aviation. Let's not do steel and cement. Let's just do electricity generation, perhaps, sadly, it's only 1/4 of emissions. If you get all of electricity and all of passenger because of the non-linear nature of the phenomena, You don't get any delta T benefit out of a And so in Breakthrough, what we do is we review and buildings-- those are our five-- and we can we innovate so that the services, aviation, with zero emission, where the increased costs, to zero. The theory of change is very much that the for 60% of emissions and that number-- that The only way you get them to adopt these clean cost to doing that. That is, saying to India, don't build roads, to achieve basic levels. And their per capita emissions, historically, problem that we have, and because they're they're going to suffer dramatically more Because of that, anyway, we have this theory So any time we say, oh, wow, there's a new or a way of doing industrial heat, or a way And so at this point, in 2015, there was very I mean, Tesla had been started, but many of the venture model hadn't worked that well, And so you could say, like industrial emissions, people are talking about deadlines to get the work for the hard things. And they were just so overly focused on electricity That's a nice thing. But in no sense does a cheap solar panel help It's just different technologies. So I'd say I'm actually enthused about-- in that, at least at the lab level, have an approach which is a non-trivial thing, get the volume and lithium-ion batteries, that we can achieve Outstanding. And so that was a great list of possibilities I was kind of curious about the adaptation Because likely-- I mean, from whatever-- from we're going to be facing some issues. We already are facing issues. Those issues are probably going to become Hopefully, we can start pulling things back, part of the strategy. Any thoughts that you'd like to share on the Yeah, so adaptation is sort of the orphan Most climate discussions are about mitigation. And sadly, we do need to do both, because temperature increase. In some forums, you're allowed to say that Other forums, when you're in the church, the say, maybe that will happen. But anyway, there will be quite a bit of warming. And in temperate-zone countries, the adaptation We know how to adapt the seeds. We know how to prevent forest fires coming We know how to deal with heatwaves. So there are things. But largely, the US has air conditioning, single bad harvest will cause your children So most of the adaptation work, it needs to are responsible for, like, 2% of emissions, And so the highest-leverage things in adaptation are more productive every year, so they can have also been adapted to deal with the higher I mean, the Green Revolution saved billions It was a phenomenal miracle. But we're not done with that type of agriculture And by improving agricultural productivity, you're deforesting, particularly these tropical beef grazing. And that is an aspect of mitigation that these So adaptation doesn't get much in the way And it needs to. On that note, how do we-- on the &quot;needs to,&quot; that particular goal? I don't think that's an easy question. Well, the total amount of money that's available-- The aid budgets, the generosity of rich countries It's like about 0.2% of rich country GDP goes And our foundation is the strongest lobbyists-- should go up. But politically, the likelihood of it going In fact, in many countries, including the down. So that's the same money that you would use to buy malaria bed nets and you buy vaccines, It's pretty limited. So we do have to be extremely careful how Rich countries will pay for the things they I'm not worried about that taking place. It's more of the adaptation for the poor countries. Gotcha. So these are great examples of an intersection We've got a lot of scholars here who work I was hoping you could maybe elaborate a bit of important things in society. Because climate is very important, and health There's other areas that are important. But also, there's the connectivities. It feels like we can get more than just the spot. So I was just hoping to pick your brain and-- experience, everything that you've learned, group of scholars? Well, climate is not an end unto itself. If peoples are healthy, they're being educated, you know, then wow, there must-- climate must It's only through retarding development. It's a headwind for development, because of And so you really have to say, OK, you know, than it ever did before, because anophele well. And that's why many African cities like Addis mosquitoes, thrive. That's changing. So for the first time, we're seeing lots of steffanci, that's now adopted to urban-type If you're an outdoor worker, that's where If you can't afford air conditioning, your very labor-intensive thing. And so it's really through the vector of, Even in the face of population growth, other can the poor countries keep improving? And I believe the answer is yes. But the health effects-- for example, Wellcome on, if you're pregnant, during which part the outcomes in a negative way? And what's the magnitude of that effect? You'd be surprised how many health-related That's a study that we'll come back in the how do we-- what are the interventions for Yeah, I have to say, just hearing you talk really, just is part of what excites me about because you need-- under one roof, you need like health and policy and economics and tech. And at the end of the day, we're trying to These problems can't be solved independently. It really is one solution, one mode of operation. And we're hoping to find the most optimal and also good for education and welfare and So yeah, I just want to encourage everybody we're growing-- but really try to engage that discipline you're interested in. Because that's really, I think, what will for those who are formally rostered in the the school. We're hoping to amplify those activities and so that people kind of can find the right Outstanding. That's fantastic. No, I love-- I love the new school. It's exciting, indeed. So I wanted to talk a little bit about early-stage And there's a lot of early-stage R&amp;D that At the end of the day, we don't know what's in any domain. We need early-stage R&amp;D. We need to take that down the pathway to grow I was hoping to get your insights into early-stage foster that better, especially given the environment we have a SLAC National Lab as well that does You, know how can we take on that activity solutions as they emerge? Hoping to kind of pick your brain on that. You've seen-- you've been part of it. You've lived it. You've witnessed it, taking early stage things I'd love to get your thoughts. Yeah, so when we started Breakthrough and people and said, OK, we're only going to invest alone will reduce over half a percent of emissions, After all, there had been no funding in that And people like Vaclav Smil, the very best out that the simplicity of the digital model-- infrastructure, you know-- that anybody who naive about how it is to change the way we And he likes to point out, hey, the way we why do you think it can change? Well, as we got going, and-- you know, like David Danielson gives, a lot of students came about this because of climate. And you know, so whether it's batteries or that have a connection to Stanford is actually This is the location that more of these have Now, part of that is that the US attracts Most other countries are mostly dependent their country. Here in the US, we get-- it's such a melting like this. And so I guess I shouldn't have been surprised and we have no bias towards the US. We'll fund climate technologies wherever they're But over 80% are here in the United States, And it's partly the infrastructure that you things that do carry over from successful The length of the fund does not carry over. You need-- we chose more like 20 years. So we've made some modifications. But many of the people involved with this And so we bring some things, but with appropriate And now, even Vaclav is amazed. You know, he's still like, OK, I don't know. It's hard to roll these things out. But even so, he's amazed at the number of You know, and there's almost-- there's, like, there's room for two of them to be the ultimate Yeah, another pearl of wisdom-- yeah, don't and be ready to take on a fresh perspective-- We need it. That's for sure. I wanted to ask about-- on that note, we have on early-stage R&amp;D. And the way I view the globe, the world that It came through what I'm just going to call decades, if not centuries ago, came up with Ultimately, somebody picked up on that. That basic research got translated into maybe didn't. And now, we have this web of a society where policy, tech-- to do all the things that we of us in this room happen to have-- not everybody And a lot of us in this room have aspirations it into something big and getting there urgently. Because we have a big problem to address, What would you-- what advice would you give themselves? And they might be working on at the milligram What advice would you give them that they take that or something else to scale later academic disciplines, I would say? Well, the pipeline starts with R&amp;D. And government-- fortunately, the US government Not as much in the climate space as I think other government. And some of that comes to work that gets done The next stage is-- Breakthrough Energy has similar constructs, where you can get money, plan yet, but you have a scientific approach to show promise. And so we, through our Fellows program, we've And then, we have the Ventures Group, where on a spreadsheet and make it look like there's And then you actually have to do projects. And our group that helps with that scaleup So Breakthrough Energy, underneath that umbrella, that R&amp;D ought to be higher, but then this Catalysts. And the number of skill sets needed to shepherd finance. It's marketing. It's politics. Those very early-stages. It's deep science and material science, chemical And so that's the type of person who's going But then they need to build a team of all get to where they really can have climate For climate products, one thing that's hard always find some customer whose needs aren't at a very low price and get on the learning When you make steel and cement, it's not going than today. There isn't some niche that you're going to And so the bootstrap, to be economic, and the current way of making those things-- the When you build a building with cement, and you hope that it works. And so that piece about, wow, what is that this space. And that's why policy work and great finance, Absolutely. And let me pause for a moment and kind of Again, I'm looking at a room of scholars who in finance and markets, in business, in tech. And I think that's a key thing-- for any solution dimensions and a roadmap. And so this community-- how one can engage about things up front, I think, could be very And number two, in the new school, we do have is an accelerator within the context of a And the accelerator-- the way I would describe it's somewhere in between what you just described Right? So it's kind of fitting that sweet spot where thinking, how do I answer questions that are that whoever you sell to is going to care in some other cool feature, just knowing that from some other vendor for the past 50 years, So just really trying to answer different from a basic research perspective. So yeah, please-- the accelerator is building I've been fortunate to be part of it. Since we first-- Arun and I, back in the day, on the need for this in the community, and We're trying to move and shake in our own to contribute on projects, not just in the cetera, to try to take things where you can and farther ahead. So please keep an eye-- will be an important one-- not the only important this deadline of wanting to get temperature won't meet some of those goals, anything like out faster is really a fantastic contribution. I agree fully, and also identifying the right Some problems might have a bigger lever than And in a world of academic research, which you, we need that. We need lots of curiosity-driven research, insights as to how the world works, whether, work or economics, et cetera. These are all really important foundations So we definitely need more of that. But I think really providing some new outlets research and be more challenge-driven research lens, to see what might actually work, what obstacles I should be tackling-- that's an to have that impact more directly. The sooner one can start building skills on think, the faster we can roll out those solutions. Very cool. I do want to talk about markets for a moment. So as a technologist myself, in SUNCAT, the among many other centers and research groups solutions. But clearly, we recognize that any solution that. And so I was just kind of curious about the our entire economy, across every sector, it's climate into account. I was kind of curious about your view of the works. And how do we shift that to help enable a Well, the rich countries really have to do They have to set an example for the world And they have to use that activity to innovate and that is, they're not just using tons of or super expensive cement. Because your adoption into these middle-income emissions-- it just won't happen. They'll turn to you and say, are you willing That's trillions of dollars. It won't-- even if it should happen, the collective innovating the cost down very, very dramatically. How that happens in rich countries-- you know, things. So if you make the current thing more expensive, easier for it to compete. If you give a tax credit to the new thing, And so this so-called IRA bill provided tax a $3-a-kilogram tax credit for green hydrogen, create all the different approaches there-- And hopefully, even after that tax credit learning curve in a very big way. Ideally, you have not just rich countries things and invest in these things. You have rich individuals who want to show And so that's almost a non-market thing, that-- And then, as you get to the zero green premium, they provide. Outstanding. You mentioned policy and some of the policy I'm very grateful that we have these policies in recent years. If you-- here's an &quot;if you could change&quot; type If you could change one or two policies or exist today that you think could really move in the US or elsewhere or-- is really two dilemmas. One is that climate's become a little bit So you have one party who says, OK, Green says-- you can guess which is which-- maybe And sadly, because of the long-term nature replacing all this infrastructure-- if half time, you're in, oh, &quot;we can get this done realistic-- then you're not going to come So that's a problem, and connected to that shove, and you tell people, hey, everybody to buy an electric heat pump, the people who really willing to experience a decline in There's a general view of a lot of people else to pay the bill. And so we've seen-- when France put a diesel heat pumps or the UK had a notion that they cars, because they weren't going to let those that as people start to see these costs, it And how do you square that circle? Again, innovation getting those premiums down able to maintain climate progress without somewhat partisan view of the issue. So if I have one wish, it would be to get looking for the minimal cost for how to achieve [APPLAUSE] Absolutely wonderful. Let me transition now. I have some more questions I would like to to honor our wonderful student community, questions on different topics. So let's switch gears, and we'll see if we more. So the first question is about artificial This is a question from an undergraduate student Thank you very much, Frank. And the question is, what role do you think towards a sustainable environment and society? Well, AI is going to accelerate scientific So whether it's discovering new drugs by simulating foundation works with Microsoft to come up this material science-- some of the deep questions. Many of the things we thought we might need AI techniques will actually give us some of for low-cost solutions. Our climate modeling will get a lot better. Our work on seeds will get a lot better. So it is this wild, incredible, amazing accelerant that will never be the same. Outstanding. All right. Next question comes from Shivani Upadhyay, The question is, what is the best way to finance emerging markets that are suffering disproportionate being high emitters historically? This is a graduate student in our graduate Yeah, so most adaptation requires grant money. In climate, you hear numbers and different Often, money-- when you get to the big numbers, Those things-- that only works when there's making better seeds for poor farmers or buying That's got to be grant money, philanthropic financial return on it. And that's partly why adaptation is so hard. Today, the things that are called adaptation-- is super low, like-- and there is a problem climate adaptation goal like $100 billion vaccines. I mean, there's literally a question of, when it will fall dramatically short of what we've very finite money. This grant aid money that goes from rich countries But given how scarce it is, we have to spend And there's certainly a justice issue here. But justice, when you go across borders, isn't You know, and that's why we're fighting over for all of these worthy causes. Yeah. Challenging, indeed-- an opportunity for those in that space on how to make that happen. It's not a simple-- not a simple problem. Next question is on nuclear power. This is coming from a graduate student in Milbauer. The question is, is there a role for nuclear remarkable cost reduction in renewable electricity I think I might know what you will say on it. Yeah, so if you take these open-source grid green grid, which will have to generate far much, because your cars, your steel factories electricity instead of direct use of other And so this green grid is very hard to build. And you can ask these simulator software that no fission and no fusion and just basically, And what you see in terms of the amount of speed of building you'd require-- that that And in terms of reliability, now, you've got load. That load comes in exactly when you have cold no wind. So the weather correlation is a huge problem. There's some mistaken models that we're doing-- But as people looked at that, and it was clear So even though nuclear fission has many challenges think it's very important that we invest in We can't count on them. We may have to do that other approach, as But if you mix into that model non-weather-dependent density of energy generation is very, very your power loads are, so you're not building been permitted, and who knows if it's likely The politics of that are-- there's no light do for transmission. And so I hope that vision comes through. I should note I have a bias. I've-- not to make money, but to have it potentially billion into a company called TerraPower that in Wyoming right now. And it has a lot of characteristics, like aren't available. It accumulates heat continuously, but then It only generates when it's needed. So it's designed to coexist with renewables. And we should build renewables as fast as Likewise, Breakthrough's in 4 of 16 fusion that has kind of a best-case date for electricity So hopefully, those-- to come in-- the scale bit of a wild card. And there's two companies working in that So yes, I think we should be open-minded, And we should be able to solve the economic both in fission and fusion. So many important things that you mentioned Just to touch base and resonate on the importance for us to think about our little piece of and clean and cheap as we possibly can. But the question is, how does it fit within And that system modeling is pointing in directions development. So just one important part, and also really And most nuclear reactors are not designed And so just recognizing that that's the opportunity, system differently in the first place. So just wanted to uncover a few things there The next question is on the concrete sector. This comes from Connor Hoffman, an undergraduate The question is you've invested greatly in sector. What strategies can be used to take these be implemented? Yeah, so when I went to high school, nobody I had to wait to read Smil and realize, wow, I mean, it is-- in terms of mass, it's the And that's why you get roads and buildings. And it is super cheap, particularly in Asia. It is very, very cheap. And you get emissions partly because you're into calcium. And so you have a CO2 molecule that's going generate the heat, which is usually burning And so you get, literally, a ton of CO2 for And if you just did brute-force carbon capture cost over twice as much. So the green premium is over 100%. There are a number of companies in our portfolio, outside our portfolio-- that either by not capture as they use that limestone, where for cement. So this is the one where if you'd asked me have put this at the top of the list. And now, I feel very good, although the results So we're at that, OK, let's go build some and make sure that we're right about this. And then, you have to diffuse that across You can look at a map of how many cement plants It's kind of mind blowing. It's way more than, say, electricity generation. Super. I think we have time for maybe one last question. And given the hour, I'm going to ask you to Here we go. It is one piece of advice that you would give whole career ahead of them in society. One piece of advice. Climate's a super complex problem, and it's and the number of sciences. I mean, I had to read Weather for Dummies So I think you'll your contribution will be But learning the broad phenomena and the various to get amazed by, I think it's fascinating. So we need people who bring a holistic view Outstanding. With that, let's thank Mr. Bill Gates. Thank you so much for your time. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, Bill and Tom, for that just wonderful, This could have gone on longer. I just want to take this opportunity to thank And just so you know, there's food outside, have some-- partake of some food outside. And I also want to take this opportunity to None of this would have happened without them. So let's give them a big round of applause. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Thank you very much. And let's move on to the food. And thank you again, Bill and Tom. [APPLAUSE]