Imagine a version of Earth fifty million years and extraordinary new creatures now populate the the retro speculative zoology book 'After Man,' The book is part of a trilogy alongside 'Man After The new Dinosaurs in the archive). But 'After Man' behind other series like the Future is Wild, Its impact no surprise, as the post-human Earth familiar, and yet so alien. And the biology of the it's worth taking a closer look. So, for this down the animal ecosystems of the far future, New Dinosaur's video -- some of the science is what such a world would look like. Think of this So, let's leap forwards fifty million years, and now reign over the planet. Beginning in the reborn Earth, the planet's biome distribution has tectonic movements will likely rearrange the into North America, and separating North and South Dixon imagines you can find various species of strange appearances. As you can imagine, rabbucks become much larger with longer legs. This is grazing niche once held by deer, which have are preyed upon by the Falanx, a mid-sized These carnivores are roughly wolf-sized. Despite of wolves at all -- but a very distant offshoot I'm certainly glad that wolf-sized rats aren't Moving into the forests, you can find the Oakleaf These curious amphibians get their name from with helps with camouflage. Many modern toads the same remarkable level as the oakleaf. Another amphibians is they're true carnivores -- large insects. And within the nearby wetlands, prey with its sinuous neck and balancing on the Reedstilt is a descendent of insectivores like lost their quills and became larger and larger Continuing on to the pine trees of the northern large animal with unique horns for defense, and a larger, more defensive incarnation of the of their ancestors for size and security the Pamthret is one of the most dangerous within descended from ferrets -- who are also carnivores ones. But even the Pamthrets sometimes think twice squirrel. As you can tell by the name, they're although they've taken a page out of the pointy quills for warding off predators. A Moving even further northwards, we arrive at the Here, you can find the wooly gigantalope, a thick clearing snow off the vegetation it consumes. As another offshoot of the modern antelope, although in many ways similar to a rhino. In the nearby a species well equipped for vertical movement species is likely the descendent of none other goat the precursor to the single bony plate And even further north within the icy the leviathan-sized Vortex and smaller Porpin swim largest creature on earth, and a clear analogue to to the modern porpoise or dolphin. Despite this, other than penguins -- who, over the eons, became We've got more fantastical creatures to cover, halfway through the list, if you're enjoying this subscribe, and hit the notification icon Heading much further south to the equator, we find the rather unfortunate looking desert leapers roam (and hop) like kangaroos, but they're actually leaper also employs the same unique survival tail, like the camel's hump, contains specialized for long periods. Even more wrinkly than an animal with a truly unfortunate appearance. similarly alarming looking ancestors, the naked sharks (which have no relation to actual sharks) regulate body temperature. And the last creature looking fellow with hard plates for defense and succulents it feeds on. The Rootsucker is the that shares its armored shell and also uses its of my personal favorite species--though not yet equator, a belt of tropical grasslands flourishes, populations today. But instead of elephants, the dominate the grassy fields. Both species occupy a animals on the savanna -- and perhaps the As the name implies, these species are yet another But where there are grazers, there are predators, species which preys on Gigantelope. Despite the that of the modern cheetah, as you could probably primates, which have become fully carnivorous are the Raboons, another primate offshoot Descendants of the modern, much less frightening to feed on plants and fruit alone, becoming however, they have close family structures Further south, in the vast tropical forests of high leafy branches. Despite their trunks, but to modern day wild boars. It's hard to see the lot of time for a species to adapt to a new way we've got the Swimming Monkey. The name kind of one. They're a monkey... but they're good at And in the same boat, we have the swimming but good at swimming. You get it. Much more unique which occupies a similar niche in the swampy having a very similar looking snout, the mudgulper rodent. And arriving at our last destination, we particular, the enormous island of Lemuria which is home to some of the most striking species this an animal so strange it twists one's mind just stalker is a descendant of the bat, and has given terrestrial existence. But the Nightcrawler isn't The last species on our list is... this the which resembles a flower in sight and smell to it's not actually that far off from how Venus fly evolving in an animal is a truly insane concept. it's my very favorite. And that's the end of Like I said in my New Dinosaur's video, Dougal the future, is worth checking out if you ever get If you liked this video, please lend your support if you haven't already to stay up to date on