- I like to use everything in the kitchen. For me, the indication of a good chef, Chinese, French, Italian, Spanish, male, female, doesn't make any difference, is the use often of leftover, or using everything in the kitchen. And today, that's what we're going to do. Here I have peas, and as you see, those peas we're going to and I just wash them before. And what we do is to remove the pea, the fresh pea from the pod, and the pod here I'm going Show you the thriftiness in the kitchen. I have about 12 ounce of peas, and that, we're going to use that later. In the recipe also, we are using a leek. And as you can see, I The end of the green. The end of the green here and there, but basically, I don't remove much. It is not a good idea and discard this. And even the few pieces that I keep that for stock. So we do use everything. So what we want to do and it really doesn't matter how coarsely you want to cut it here, because we're going to strain it anyway. We're going to put that in a food mill. So I put that into that pot, with a tablespoon of and I use here a canola type of oil, which is a polyunsaturated type of oil. And I have onion also, I have an onion. And I like, you know, when I do a soup, to stew the vegetable a little bit before I put the liquid in it. Then a potato. The potato is going to be And you can again cut See, I can peel the potato ahead providing I keep them in water. But when I take them out of the water, I don't like to re-wash them because it takes too much What I want to do is to saute and put our potato. And again, another fallacy is that you have to use stock. I use water. And I like, especially with because I really have the closer to the way it should be. So, water is perfectly fine. And soup doesn't have to it can cook pretty fast. Put a dash of salt in this, and I put my pea pod, which You have to realize this is going to melt kind of down, you know? You have to realize that then I have one cooked here, you cannot put your soup If you put the soup in a food processor, you're going to have all of that you cannot really use. So what you have to do is to that I have started here. That type of food mill, and different blade. You can push things through and so that's what I have here. This is really home cooking. And if I had to choose one dish out of all the dish if I was on an island and I I would pick up a soup. And probably a soup with potato and leek. That's what I like the best. So this here, we strain this. You can go back and forth And basically, you see what will remain is the fiber here. Those little pieces Gonna bring that underneath. And our soup here could be served as such. If you want to have it slightly richer, I put it back in there, you know? With maybe a tablespoon of butter, if you want to splurge a You can do that at the last moment. You know, if we use butter, we use of course only Very little. Those soup used to be finished with a lot of heavy cream. And butter, we'll put but at the end when you get I have a nice, thick soup here, and of course I would serve a bit of chives on top. You see a very satisfying Soup is always welcome And here what we're going to do is to put a little bit of chives on top. And you know, frankly, the crouton could be also If you put the crouton on top, do it at the last moment, because you don't want them to get soggy. You want them to be like this. And this is our first course We use, you know, the beans in the summer, but summer for me is also All of it in my garden usually. And here I have an all array of different dry and fresh peas. I have those dry pinto beans here, and when they are really in like 30 minute. Here I have the string beans. And those string beans, when I was a kid, we really used to string them. There is no string anymore, so you can take only the end part of it, and sometimes even that The snow peas here have to actually this side. And take the end off here. Sometimes there is a string also. Those are snap peas, and snap But you eat the whole thing, On this side and again And this is terrific, you know? And finally here, we have those large one which are fava beans. And those fava beans that Very cut in inside. You really cannot use the shell. But this is good. Now, a lot of people cook it this way. It's even better if you It's difficult to take, so what you do, you drop that in boiling water, boil it one second as I have them here, and after that, you just and press it out. You see, it will pop out. So you make a little hole You do the same thing with lima beans. And those now are really tender and nice, just blanched this way. And finally here, we which we are going to use today. You know, those peas. Remember that we use those and now we're going to that we have here. And the first thing is to saute a little bit of onion, and some scallion here. We start our stew this way. You know, a stew of peas. Really type of home cooking which I love, because it's flavored but not much of it. So what we do, a bit of onion again, that we want to chop fairly coarsely. Again across. (knife chops) All that comes from the garden, you know? It's always nice to go But I tell you, it is good. One of the only vegetables The tiny baby peas, you know? And frozen they are good. I tell you why, unless you have a garden and have them very fresh, turn into starch pretty fast, you know? So the frozen peas are Remember that the pea are The legume, they are legumineuse, and actually so high in protein. About three time as much as so this is nice. What we're going to do or old style of cooking if you want, or home styling of cooking. To saute. You see the onion with a bit of scallion. I put a little piece And with that we're going That is a mixture... Boy, those onion are strong. A little bit of flour, and I have about one and You spread it on top of the mixture. This is a technique we That is to singe. To spread out your flour here. And again, remember, when we use a starch, we dilute the starch with liquid, otherwise the proteins Likewise here, when the butter does the same thing. It spreads out the segment of the flour and prevent it from lumping on you. Then you can cook it for a minute or so, then we put liquid in that time. We just put water here. And that amount of flour, I have about a teaspoon and a half here, will just give me something I'm going to stir it And basically that's I put my carrot to do the stew. And we want to bring that... Oh, and a little bit I prepare herbes de Provence. That mixture of different herb. With oregano, I even have We want to bring that to a boil, and cook that for a few minute. Then we'll add the peas, a little bit of that ham which is used as a flavoring agent. Which if you don't want With that type of simple stew of vegetable which is often what we when I was a kid, we're going to have a steak, What we call in France Butcher's steak, you know? And those are unknown or and very good. And as I say, inexpensive, This is the shoulder blade steak. You will recognize it because inside you have that long, narrow strip. Very gelatinous. We call it in New York and I think this is called Small steak like that of We have a steak probably unknown here. Which is in the cavity of the pelvis bone. We call that the oyster steak. Like the oyster and the chicken, you know? They are in the cavity. Usually that, the butcher eat it. Then we have that long, narrow thing that now people do fajita with. And this is the skirt steak. It's inside the cavity of the animal. It's actually the breathing The plexus solarium there. So you have a large muscle on each side. Skirt steak. This is what they use now for fajita, or those type of Mexican This is a great steak. We call onglet in France. And again, in the center of the animal in between the rib, there is a hanging This is what called a hanging tenderloin. In France, onglet is considered Again, there is that large Notice that most of those steak, not the skirt steak, but the other one are going to be very, very Finally, what we use today which is from the hip. And that piece of meat it's a bit the shape of a triangle, and we call it the triangle steak. Again, very, very lean, and to cut a steak of if I do it thin. It's barely five ounces this way. A very lean piece of meat. And I'm going to cook two steak. What you would want to do is just simply put a bit of salt and pepper Now, you don't put salt until you're ready to use it. Because the salt will tend And that's often what people say, &quot;Do you salt meat before?&quot; Yes, it is true that the salt The point is, however, that it's going to take before it draws out the moisture. So there is nothing wrong in just before you cook it. If you prefer not to put the It has a different taste. But the salt at the end of cooking doesn't go into it the same way. I think that we can put that You know, this way, very thin steak. And I think we should be close to ready to put our peas, you know? Remember what we have here. What we have here was our carrot and peas, so we have a lot of beautiful color. And again, the fresh peas will take about seven-eight minute to cook. Finally, we are going But for the time being, before doing this, I want to show you how to make what we call a maitre d'butter. A beurre maitre d'hotel we call in France. And you see the seasoning A lot what we do to Hollandaise, Bearnaise I have one finished here. You can freeze it, put it When you're ready to use it, we cut it into pieces like this. First take the paper from around it. And we keep that in ice. You know, very often in restaurant, you will put a little piece, like half a tablespoon of and you'll have all the And you know, a tablespoon of butter with the seasoning in it so it's not that much. We see my steak now has As you can see, it will be marked nicely. Depending how rare you want it, it's going to be cooked soon. What I have here is two that I'm going to put in there. And lemon juice, like a we want to put on top of it here. You know, again, unsalted sweet The beurre maitre d'hotel. You can do a tarragon butter, then you will have tarragon of course. But here, the beurre maitre And parsley, you know? And this is the curly parsley, you know? Which I'm going to cut just with the lemon juice. This is an ideal little machine That goes on top. And finally, that piece (machine whirs) Okay. The butter has to be And we can put a little more... Let me taste. Maybe a little more lemon Here we are. You know, it depends. Sometimes during the summer and do an herb butter. It takes seven different (machine whirs) And basically that mixture here, you can now use it as is, or you can put it as I did here, roll it, and keep it in your refrigerator. But it is a great flavor. So what we'll do here, maybe because I may use the cold one which is going to work So now let's see... Our steak should be close to ready. And I can mark it on both sides, but when you do small steak like this, one side is enough. They cook a couple of minutes on each side if you want it relatively rare, you know? And again, it's a question Now my peas here, see this Very often when I was a kid, my mother would do that That is as the main course And what she would do, I'm putting ham in there, you know? But she would use leftover meat. Like if you do a roast of then she would start it with little pieces of the leftover meat to use other flavoring agent. Again, that thrifty way of cooking. And we're going to present You will want to put, again, don't worry when you do you put always thing in the middle, then out, then straight out, with your fork to make a kind of nest. And on top of this, I have my steak here. Small steak right in the center of it. And my little piece of And this is our main course for today. (lighthearted piano music) And let's make our dessert now. Some people think it's the dessert, you know? When in doubt, start with So what we have here is plum. Beautiful Santa Rosa plum. What you want is any type of plum, but other fruit will work quite well also. What's important with fruit That will determine the amount and all of this makes a big difference between if you have a pear and something which is really ripe. So here we cut them, we You can use other type of plum. One or the other. We take the pit out of it, and we do a type of stew with it. I put a little... Like about one teaspoon not too much here. And with that, we're We saute them. They're going to get soft, you know. Of course they're going to get soft and render some liquid. Then we put beautiful nuts. We have a pistachio nut. Even the color over A dash of water to stop the moisture. And now sweetening agent. I'm putting some apricot jam in there. Okay, we mix that together. And you know, we're going but frankly you could do this, and serve that in a nice glass bowl. With a little bit of cream, or by itself, or with a cookie. It would be a great dessert by itself. So what we have here, that should cook, and I have one here after five-six minutes of cooking. And this is what we're We're going to put that in You know, to fill it You could even do a type That is putting it this way, and with a little bit of fill them up. You know? This is about half a So maybe I'll fill up those And what we want to do And the filo dough is that type of dough made with water and flour. Those thin, very thin... And as you can see, I Because if you don't have it's going to dry out. So what we'll do, you want Brush that very lightly We use about one good tablespoon, one and a half tablespoon Sprinkle with a little bit And then with that, we want to put the butter and form a kind of hat, you know? Very loose on top of it that You know, like this. As you can see, it's quite easy. And it makes a striking those sheet of filo used Now you can get that very easily basically in all market. You know, you do all kinds The classic way is stuffed with But look at that here. You can do it that open This way doesn't matter. What you don't want to do, you don't want to squeeze where the dough is going to get together. You want to have some space in between so that it can brown nicely And I have it here. Okay, gathering it gently. And that's it. And this now, you want to put in the oven around 350-370 degree oven. It's going to cook, you want I have some which are ready here, and the dough as you can see is going to get very crisp, and on. And this makes of course You know, very striking. A bit unusual. Those are still warm but, as I said, you would want to serve And that very... You see, you can hear it and that's how you want it. Eat that with a little spoon. You can serve that just by itself here. A bit hot. You can even put if you want a tiny bit of powdered sugar on top to give it more flair even. Sometimes in modern cuisine they even decorate the plate with powdered sugar or cocoa, you know? To give a different effect. And this is our beautiful Some of the greatest meal were done with very So sometimes, you know, people think that they do have to spend a great deal of money to make a good meal. And sometimes it's good to have caviar without any questions, but very often at home, you know, you can recognize a good cook in what he does in the This is what I call good cooking, and I'm very impressed and see someone who can use a chicken, and use the bone, and use the neck, and use the skin, and use I know that person has That's a bit what we Especially with our pea pod soup. We used leek, and of course but the pea pod is a nice addition to it, it has a nice, fine taste. That soup is served hot as a bit of herb. If you want to splurge, you or you could put some and serve it cold with some chives. Just like a Vichyssoise, you know, one of those cold soups It's quite good. Then we have our little steak. Remember, this is not a it is from the hip part of the animal. It's a very lean steak, it's a small one, it's about four-five ounces with that beautiful stew of peas which could be served as and that would be very nice. We also have a salad. And finally, the beautiful You know, the filo is and except for a little bit those sheet of filo are so it's not that much and You could do it of course with raspberry or other type of fruit. And if you don't want you can serve it just plain and that will be terrific too. And with that stew I would Today we have a pinot noir. A pinot noir from the Sonoma County. A very rich, complex and very and I will enjoy it with my meal. I hope you do that meal for your friend and save a bit of money in the kitchen. You will enjoy eating the meat as much as I will eating that meal now. I enjoy cooking it for you. Happy cooking. (calming music)