Transcriber: Nadine Hennig I want everybody to close their eyes. I want you to imagine being in love. Maybe you have been in love, maybe you hope to be in love. What was that like? Your heart starts racing, your stomach gets all weird. You call up your best friend and say: &quot;Oh, my gosh, I think In three weeks. We figured that out so quick. We make these very quick decisions. All of our emotion But then, what happens down the road? We realize, 50% of marriages fail. Why? Two of my very good friends and told me that their marriage even though everyone else that they weren't making You know, my best friend - Her mother and I knew that the guy that she picked he was dismissive towards women, and he really wanted a woman cook, clean, and have their child. And my friend was she was singing jazz in New York City. She was very happy to have that life, but that's not what he was interested in. But somewhere along the way, she fell in love with him, and so she sacrificed for the family, she sacrificed for what she thought And ten years down the road, she realized she didn't recognize herself, and then she decided to leave. A women asked me the other day - she was complaining, at 40, saying that there was no good men left. And she said that the only men are the Peter Pan guys. The men who, as she described, that they don't want to have kids, they don't want to settle down. And she spent all her time and energy And she asked me, what do I think, why can't she find anybody, So I say to her: And she said, &quot;Oh, yes, very honest! I'm really serious. I want to fix And I said: &quot;Well, I think in people that are really happy. They're totally fine. Why should they get married, They don't want to, you do.&quot; So, the issue is your focus, How are we selecting partners? And why are we trying Or, why are we ignoring who they are, or the red flags that are I have women all the time, complaining that they can't find or woman of their dreams. I have men complaining that they feel because they are the good guy, and what they find is that people are dating the player, the pathological liar, the person who's already married. So, we make all these decisions and we end up two, ten years down the road, in despair. We struggle to try to find whether that leads to marriage Why do we repeat this cycle And the woman that asked me earlier - that I had talked about, that asked says: &quot;Oh, no! I don't date I just see them out there. Well, except the last two relationships, &quot;Oh, OK, so, you do date them. She couldn't really explain it. And then she just kept coming back and saying: &quot;No, no, &quot;OK, except the last two.&quot; So, she became really defensive and was denying the truth that everyone else - the people that loved her So I asked myself: on the path of love, It starts off beautiful, You're totally in love with this person And then, we see because we say: &quot;No, no. It must be us. But the problem is that And they are concerned. And then, what is our response? We attack them. &quot;Well, you will never be happy &quot;I finally found someone I love &quot;Well, you just don't know him. We tell ourselves this all the time. Then there is a combination of red flags. And we tell ourselves, which is true, but we tell so our friends and family And what do we do? And then we begin to isolate from them. They try to intervene, and they say: &quot;Look, I am really concerned And I want you to think about that. I want you to try and pick And we may even admit to ourselves: &quot;Yeah, I probably should end it. But we don't. So then, what happens is - because family or friends, or anyone because they conflict &quot;Look, there is a problem here,&quot; we feel embarrassed, we feel ashamed. And so, what do we do? So we don't go because they're always complaining. Then the family gets angry, then they separate from you; And eventually, we realize too that we were wrong and they were right. And we hate it. It drives us nuts. Then we despair, and say, &quot;Are we ever And we could have saved if we would just listen to and not to be so defensive. Why do we repeat this cycle? Because we do it all the time. Our brain - I think that the same part controls our feelings of love because our feelings of love, that intense connection which is totally irrational - we don't really know them, we don't really have but we want to believe that we do - it's just like being addicted It's an addiction, it is. And for whatever reason, We're not wise enough because our emotion and our perception, controls our brain, our mind, our prefrontal cortex The prefrontal cortex that's rational, It tells the other parts When you want to punch &quot;Nope, that's my boss, that's the prefrontal cortex But we don't allow the prefrontal cortex to control our heart so that's how we get in these situations. It could genetics, maybe we don't know anyone or happy relationship, things like that. Some people have this idea Why do we date the person who we know is historically They tell us about their last partner, but somehow we still think that: &quot;Oh, they are going Meanwhile, the good person is there, the good guy who is honest, but we ignore them. I have an example; don't laugh. It's the bachelorette. Has anyone paid attention Audience) Yes. Des, who is the bachelorette, is down to three guys two of which are madly in love with her. Madly in love with her. They tell her, they're affectionate, all this wonderful stuff. Who does she fall in love with? The guy that doesn't love her. And he tells her, he breaks her heart, - I don't know what's going to happen, but I think this is symbolic of life. We do this all the time, we see Love rules our mind. It seems like we are addicted to drugs, we're obsessed, we're compulsive Either we can't eat, or when we do eat it because now we're in love, This is my favorite quote here. - It reminds me of the lady who wants &quot;Never try to teach a pig to sing. It annoys the pig, I am not saying that men are pigs - and if they were pigs, women are just as much pigs as they are - but why are constantly trying We go into this relationship, and yet, we keep trying you know, it's annoying, Meanwhile, you're in that relationship for two years, when really, there are So, how do we fix this? Short list, but hard. We have to open our heart The woman who asked for advice - we were just hanging out and she refused to listen who all said the same thing. We have to open up What is going on with us? What are we doing to contribute What are we afraid of? Do we think we have to You have to get healthier, and on the path to being healthier I can't tell you how many people say - Well, they go out on a date and they go: &quot;Oh, I hope that they'll like me.&quot; I say: &quot;What?! I hope you like them! Who cares if they like you?&quot; You need to assess if they're a good fit for you. If our entire focus in dating no wonder we make bad decisions. And then you have the person &quot;Well, let me just put it out there. I'm just going to tell you I want this kind of person who does this, Well, the unscrupulous person who just kind of wants to land you in bed is going to tell you all of that stuff So, instead of putting everything become who you want, temporarily, to get what they want, you need to take a step back and figure out what are Think of three questions. If you really want to get married well, that should be one Are you interested in getting married? I'm not saying to me, but is this in your plan? Because there are &quot;No way. I am good. We have to be bolder. We have to know what we want, and be stubborn only about I had a friend who said - she didn't want to date anybody who ever in their entire life and I said: &quot;Well! Most people have done drugs, So, I don't know... I could see if they're a pothead, and they're not going to work But we have to really be wise How about &quot;Let's be stubborn and &quot;Is the person honest?&quot;; that's what we want to be stubborn about. The foolish person the wise person seeks it under [his] feet. We have to be happy with ourselves, and happiness will come to us more. If we're miserable now, .then we'll just become as we evaluate our lives. It's about our perspective. Number one rule - and a lot of people think your friends and family If you feel uncomfortable and pressured, and:&quot;Oh, my gosh, maybe that's a problem. You can stage a fake, a setup like &quot;Oh, we just happened and oh, look, there is my best friend. Oh, why don't you join us for dinner?&quot; Because they will tell you but the problem is and it has to happen early, Because that's when we fall in love - within the first three or five dates - that's when we're already hooked. We might not say it, we may not admit it, that's when we get hooked, That's when we become an addict So we have to back that up and just get our first impression And if they say, &quot;Run,&quot; then run. Run! And don't pay attention &quot;Oh, whatever makes you happy. No, no, no. Don't listen to that person. If three out of five of your friends &quot;Oh, I don't know. I'm not feeling it. Run, run, even if you think: &quot;Oh, but they have so much potential, No, just run. You have to trust your community they are wiser than us Get ongoing advice. Pick your mean friend. Your friend that's so honest, you're just because I know that's the one you want to go to. Talk to a professional, just talk to someone else to get feedback. Pay attention to red flags every day, and be brave enough to walk away early. Be brave enough to walk away. Real love is possible. It is. The relationship that you're in Don't get discouraged, don't get upset. Believe in your ability to analyze, trust Don't be afraid to ask If you're intimidated to ask what do you think when you've never asked it? Be brave, you can do it. Action conquers fear: the more we do it, My wife said on our first date, she thought she was dating because I asked her so many questions. But look what happened. Miracles can happen, It is possible, if you follow if you listen to your friends and family; they love you, they really do, Don't lie to yourself and tell yourself: &quot;Well, they're just jealous,&quot; Listen to them, Thank you. (Applause)