Life has existed on one planet for about 4 have started right after the Big Bang, when than today. A universe that might have allowed might be full of the seeds of life, sleeping of rain to explosively bloom and grow. Tiny In this video we are going to put together grounded possibilities - check out the scientific let's first look at the paradox of life The Life Paradox For its first few hundred million years, Earth was a magma hell constantly But basically the second things calmed down and zillions of microbes settled every This is kind of strange - life on Earth As if it was waiting around for an opportunity. in that tiny time window, To qualify as living things, even microbes To do that, they need a genome, that sets the inner workings of an organism. How dead things with no genome became living riddles of science. Simplifying a lot, the you need proteins, and to make those proteins and genomes are super long molecules that are extremely difficult It is a chicken-egg paradox Once you have a finished cell, the whole system dead stuff and reaching by pure chance should require an amazing amount of time for trial and error. So how did the in just a few hundred million years? Most theories about the origin of life try primitive soup of prebiotic molecules could have efficiently produced But we still don't know how exactly Maybe we need to think backwards. The Clock of Evolution Think of genomes as a book telling the history more characters were introduced: Amoebae, Over billions of years, the story A genome can be viewed as a long string And from microbes to us today, functional at a fairly constant rate. The functional genome of fish is more than twice twice bigger than that of fish and so on. let's run with this. When we put all these clues together, size on average every 350 million years or exponential inner clock. The very first microbes that emerged on Earth, have had pretty long and complex genomes. of complexity in such a short time? There may be an interesting way to solve this and extrapolate it back in time, to the simplest to a being with a genome containing just a 10 billion years in the past. More than twice evolved like this, it did not start here, This would explain why life started to thrive already present in space like a seed, it just up and go on evolving. And it would also explain life forms on Earth. They could have been evolving for billions of years But could life really be that old? Maybe yes. after the universe itself was born. A Goldilocks Baby Universe At its most basic level life needs two things: molecules and a liquid medium like water, The liquid medium needs to stay warm enough So when we search for life in space, we focus from their star - warm enough to sustain But there was actually a time when almost Right after the Big Bang the universe was it cooled. And between about 10 and 17 million was a thousand times younger than today, it at which water is liquid. So for this window the whole universe, absolutely every to support life. Of course, the right temperature chemical elements like carbon and oxygen, But were there stars in super early cosmic times? matter was especially dense. Such stars in just 3 million years - seeding the baby to form dust, asteroids, planets Maybe the first ancestors of life were more in substances like ammonia or ethane that 0 degC. They could have been sustained by the of millions of years longer, well into a time all the chemical elements. The real magic of this idea is that while hostile, back then the conditions for life For a period that may have lasted several dozen able to emerge on any rock, - sowing the universe with the would become bacteria, At some point the universe cooled below the some of those ancestral life forms may have of the first planets, frozen in asteroids roaming the cosmos waiting for new hospitable life now might be everywhere in the universe. Will We Ever Know? All this makes for a nice story. And while and our exponential clock of life - they are still speculative. One more possibility among many others, trying But if life came to Earth from outer space, the solar system too. Maybe there are fossils find life in the warm underground oceans of and lakes of ethane and methane as warm as old. So finding exotic life on Titan would in the weird baby universe. So far, when we look out into the cosmos we because life needed ten billion years or allows for a technological species. Maybe oceans full of exotic fish, and continents like us, that just recently gained consciousness wondering if they are alone. Life could be flourishing right now in uncountable And if many of us share a common cosmic origin, The answer may lie in our cosmic backyard. Let's go and find out!