Transcriber: Rhonda Jacobs Thank you. So, the other day, I was giving a talk on having a career And, I really wanted to tell them So I go, &quot;Hey guys, And in typical model fashion, &quot;Yeah, I've seen them both, (Laughter) Like, what?! The youth of today, I mean, I can't really say much. When I was 15, I wanted Not just any bodybuilder though, I actually remember day one There was this local and it looked like something It was this converted garage space rusting bar bells, and these posters of ex-bodybuilding including Schwarzenegger himself Now, the day I walked in there, this proper Cockney guy called Dave. I described to him my health and fitness you know, just like &quot;I want to get massive.&quot; (Laughter) But he nodded, you know, He pointed to the squat rack, and he says, &quot;That over there, son, And that over there, that's how you get a big chest. And these dumb bells And that's about it. Now off you go, son.&quot; So off I did go, dad. I mean, it was a pretty If you can get from A to B you just add more weight. Now, at this time in my life, so little did I know, we refer to as &quot;overload.&quot; Now, the overload theory works like this: If I push my body to failure, meaning I no longer have the capability then when I'm resting, my body and that allows me to lift more next time. I can then work around the body and, Hey, presto, (Arnold voice) Well, I obviously do not have In fact, I have a body That's because and was forced to give up This is one of my first shows. This is me strutting down The casting director - thank you - teaching us how to walk Feet straight, belly button in, But why in my early 20s More importantly, why did walking But yet, on the outside, to the audience, I mean, all they were asking me to do So I decided to go to a place was common practice. And I was about to meet that would destroy my aspiration I was attempting an exercise an adult gymnastics class. And I just couldn't get my arms straight, let alone my body off the ground. So the coach calls somebody over who demonstrates She was a six-year-old girl. This is actually her. Her name is Grace. Amazing... Grace. (Laughs) (Laughter) How sweet. (Laughter) But what I really began to see is the principles being used were identical to the posture cues during Fashion Week. It's the language of gymnastics but based on movements For example, they use shoulder hips instead of quads, hamstrings. Completely the opposite to what Fitness talks muscles before spine. You see, gymnasts focus And they also just happen and a really strong core. It's really no coincidence. This is a byproduct In fact, prioritization of the spine If you happen to damage your spinal cord, you can actually lose the ability And this is something &quot;Stop slouching.&quot; &quot;Sit up straight.&quot; &quot;Engage your core!&quot; &quot;Get your elbows off the table.&quot; They all mean the same thing. All your parents were saying was: prioritize your spine. You see, the thing is, as humans, Biochemist Esther Gokhale and researched places What she noticed was people's spines didn't suffer from back pain. She referred to this as a J-shaped spine, and you can see the difference between the S-shaped spine and the J-shaped spine in people Gokhale states the J-shaped spine and in young children universally. What she's saying is, Now, you may have noticed, when young children they drop down into this perfect squat. This kid, unlike myself, nor a six-year-old amazing Grace In fact, nobody taught him. And no, guys, he's not exercising. This is, in fact, a pre-chair, But unfortunately, as a consequence or our culture, this natural resting position He's about to be taught And when he's due to start school, seven hours of his day, every day, he will be asked to sit and unhuman - position. Now, I didn't even take into account this kid spends watching Peppa Pig. (Laughter) According to the British the total number of people increased last year by 29 percent. From the survey, the reason for back pain So I tried to find a survey totaling off sick from school with back pain. But would you believe it, You see, we are more than well aware. We are a generation But, the specific point I would like is the fitness industry's to have us hooked on task completion. Time, weight, and distance. This is, for most people, How long can you run for? How fast can you run? How much can you lift? How many repetitions can you do? How many calories can you burn? This list is endless. But they're flawed. None of these take into account or more importantly, how you once could. You see, nothing can ever compare, the exquisite movement A study in 2012 found were the second greatest affecting over 1.7 billion Professor Wolfe, describes suffering as being like a Ferrari without wheels. If you don't have mobility and dexterity, it doesn't matter how healthy So surely the access is working back towards to understand how your body moves, and to be able to function like a human. Said simply, the ability to move when you were a three year old. We can and should from the examples of children, ditching these current measures and spend time unravelling restrictions, getting back the movement All that's left in the school playground as a child, able to play and move without fear of injury And those other results we're aiming for such as: slimmer physique, toned muscles, do come, but as a byproduct of moving the body There's a famous Chinese proverb: &quot;You are as old as your spine.&quot; In all honesty, I'll have more chance than humans a better way We're just not designed to do it. Today, I'm going to leave you In cultures where people's butt muscles engage It's one reason they have that support their lower back. To demonstrate how I will need a bit So I need you all to be standing. Sorry. Please stand with your feet together and facing forwards. Now push the heels of the feet not the toes but the heels. Keep pushing. Keep pushing. Now hold. Hold this tension. Squeeze. I want you to just notice, just notice, what happened to the glute muscles as a consequence We didn't focus on these muscles, we focused on a movement. This is movement-first philosophy, Focus on a movement; We move efficiently. The body recruits Standing here with your heels is now your new stance. Actually, if I can get you guys you might just have (Laughter) By taking a lesson from my kid self. It took me two years at the age of 30 No, no. My resting position. (Laughs) Maybe we should all take a lesson We should stop teaching kids we should lead by example, and move like them. Thank you. (Applause)