Hyogo , Japan Since 2021 , bakery couleur 2:33 a.m. couleur Owner Dough making Milk butter Making cream bread Custard (Photographer) Production and sales. (Chef Uranishi) It's a one-man operation (Photographer) Full (do)? (Chef Uranishi) Full (do) (Chef Uranishi) make it, sell it. (Operating hours are) long. It's until closing, so (The store) is open until 6:00 p.m. (Director) until 6:00 p.m.! (Chef Uranishi) When they sell out (of bread) early We close (the store) at that point. Making bagels Zarame sugar (Chef Uranishi) Did I wake up? Did I wake up? (Chef Uranishi) (The bread) is pretty much in some kind of a good mood (Director) Are you in a good mood? (Chef Uranishi) In a good mood! (Chef Uranishi) (And the bread) I think you'll be a little happy. (Chef Uranishi) (And the bread.) Like, &quot;There's a lot of people here today.&quot; Sugar butter bagel Cafe moka orange bagel Making green tea custard Matcha green tea Granulated sugar Powder Awaji Island Cow's milk To custard cream Chill in ice water (Chef Uranishi) Let's eat breakfast together! It's yesterday's French bread. May I? (Director) Sure. (Thank you) Bacon. cheese Butter Breakfast is ready Granulated sugar (Chef Uranishi) Yes, eat hot! 4:45 Croissant roll Croissant roll Cream bun Melon bread Granulated sugar Cream buns Fluffy melon bread Cream cheese Making curry bread Cheddar cheese sauce Asian-scented curry bread 5:30 a.m. Pizza making Cream cheese mini-tomato Young corn Oyasai pizza 6:00 Rosemary (Director) It smells great. (Chef Uranishi) It smells like rosemary Rosemary and honey cream cheese Fougasse with scallions and crape cheese Lemon peel Walnut Cheese French bread making Making bacon epi Fruit tomato &amp; bacon cheese Honey lemon &amp; walnut making Tsubu-an making zunda-an french bread Campagne (Chef Uranishi) (The preparation is) now finished Whew! It's &quot;whew~.&quot; couleur bread (Chef Uranishi) The fluffiness (of the bread) is (Chef Uranishi) Cream buns... I think, &quot;I wonder if there's a futon like this.&quot; pepper Fougasse with aosa and chirimen cheese Cheese France Honey Honey lemon &amp; walnut Batard Croissant roll Pistachio Pineapple coconut Lemon cream Almond Campagne Maple France red bean butter red bean butter An-butter. Fluffy melon bread 216 yen Sugar butter bagel 240 yen Cafe moka orange bagel 302 yen (Chef Uranishi) Isn't it amazing? I think it makes you super happy. This way of eating (The bread) is three equal portions thick (The customer) would toast and eat with this More than a coffee shop morning Become a little gorgeous (Director) (Customer says) (Cut the bread) this thick? (Chef Uranishi)that's right (Chef Uranishi) I kinda want to do that too (Chef Uranishi) (Customer requests) (Customer requests) &quot;Can you make bread like that?&quot; or something like that. I do make it. Couleur bread: 724 yen per loaf Campagne 550 yen For the opening (Chef Uranishi) All right! I think that's about right. And now we're ready to open. 10:00 opening (Chef Uranishi) Good morning, good morning! Welcome! Thank you for everything! (Male customer) 3 times a week (comes) (Director) You come three times a week! (Male customer) Yes Thank you. (Chef Uranishi) We look forward to seeing you again! I come here for the bread because it's so good (At first) my wife said, &quot;This place is good.&quot; We came here together, that's how it started. Chef Uranishi's very friendly. The bread is delicious. &quot;Keep up the good work.&quot; (Tell her) &quot;Good luck making delicious bread.&quot; (Chef Uranishi) Good morning! (Chef Uranishi) &quot;Maple France&quot; is freshly baked now! It's going to be French bread And put maple butter on the inside. Juicy and sizzling sizzle (Female customer) Well, I'll have that (please) (Chef Uranishi) One? Thank you very much! (Chef Uranishi) Thank you for everything! We look forward to seeing you again Take care Thank you very much I love this kind of stuff. Is it cream cheese? I go to quite a bit. About once a week (I come here). Always delicious bread. Pastuerize milk (This milk is) only available on Saturdays and Sundays (Chef Uranishi) Thank you very much! We'll be waiting for you again (Female customer) Croissant roll (Chef Uranishi) popular on the streets (Female customer) This? Pistachio (flavor) I'm curious (Chef Uranishi) It's so cute Bread plate (Chef Uranishi) Ehhhhh, it's so cute! (Female customer) See you later! (Chef Uranishi) Yeah, see you later (Chef Uranishi has) a strong sense of humor, right? But, you know, he's very particular about his bread. Because I only make good bread. (Chef Uranishi) Because bread is life. (I'm overflowing with love (for bread). Well, I'm a bread nerd. (I want to tell Chef Uranishi...) I want you to look at other things. Oh~y See you later, bread nerd. (Chef Uranishi) See you soon! Thank you (Chef Uranishi) If you find bread sundries The two cats over there. A friend gave me this on our first anniversary. (Director) And this calendar? (Chef Uranishi) That was also given to me by the same friend This shelf was also made by the husband of the friend. Order it. (I'm being helped (by those around me). Really I've learned to be grateful. (This is how you can keep your store open) That it's not the norm. (Female customer) I'll have one loaf of bread and (Chef Uranishi) A square bread? (Female customer) A square bread, please. (Female customer) With one croissant roll (Chef Uranishi) Which would you like? (Female customer) Pistachio (Female customer) This is delicious. The other day (when I ate) Fougasse with aosa and chirimen cheese 280 yen I can't stop. lol (Chef Uranishi) Thank you! (Chef Uranishi) We look forward to seeing you again (Female customer) I'll be back next Friday (Chef Uranishi) We look forward to seeing you! (Female customer) Thank you (Female customer) Today, this vegetable bread and Curry bread. This is the first time I've seen this one. I bought this one This is a hard bread. looks delicious I've already jumped on it I highly recommend this bread! It's like a pastry. It's not sweet, it's crunchy. And it's got a nice chewy texture. I like hard bread. I was looking for. I looked it up on the internet. Find me here. If you look, you'll see the hard stuff lined up. And I'm like, &quot;Oh no, I'm so happy!&quot; And from there, I've been coming every week since I found out about it. I'm looking forward to another new loaf of bread (Chef Uranishi) We have a variety of customers I'm just trying to make it fit both ways. Not all hard breads. I'm also making soft breads. I wanted to make something hard and particular. You made a campagne. It didn't sell at all at first. What's that? Some people think... But those who like Found and bought He says he's here to buy again There are a lot of customers (Director) The hats are cute again! (Chef Uranishi) Yes, they are! I was going to wear the red hat. (Written in the logo) "Sai" in "Saiko" is red The red hat seems to make an impression. (Chef Uranishi) Hello! Welcome (Female customer) This is also good! Honey lemon &amp; walnut But it's only available in June, so I'll take this one. And this cheese French is good, too. (Female customer) Hollow sable They're delicious too. Thank you for all your help! (Chef Uranishi) Hello! Welcome! (Female customer) Is this a croissant? (Chef Uranishi) Yes, they are! It's the croissant that's all the rage right now. (Female customer) Is this a fad? I've never seen that before. (Chef Uranishi) Thank you! We look forward to seeing you again (Female customer) Thank you~ (Female customer) Bagel (bought) This is delicious! It's firm. It's a little bit hard bread. (The owner) is easy to talk to. It's easy to come here. I can think about coming back next time. The store. I want the store to be around for a long time. I look forward to working with you for a long time! (Chef Uranishi) Thank you very much! Fluffy melon bread Rosemary and honey cream cheese Croissant Swiss couleur bread I knew it (the bread) was pretty It's not my child, but... I guess that's how I feel Especially since I started this store. Customers say it's delicious. When people say, &quot;I want more bread here.&quot; It's like, &quot;I'll do my best.&quot; Even if things are a little unpleasant. Eat some bread. Even if it's just for a moment. Don't be shy, you (bread) guys. lol