Hey everybody, Don Georgevich here with Job And today, I want to show you how to project interviewing for a job. What I really mean to say is why you must I mean, image is everything and if you're you're probably projecting the wrong one, an employer you're out. One of the first things an employer is going you are like minded, whether your values are same as theirs, whether they think you're Before they do anything they, want to make and that you're like minded. They don't care if you're qualified. They don't care about your experience. Yet, they care about whether you're a fit, and you don't fit their mold, you don't fit then inviting you into their organization If you don't share those same values that to be a detriment to their culture, you're are going to inhibit growth in their culture. And they don't want that, because they already that share the same values and principles So, you need to associate yourself with what You need to show them that you're like minded. So, how do you do this? How do you project the right image to an employer is? You have to know what their image is. For example, understanding their company culture want to project yourself. Now, in bigger companies, it's a lot easier With the small ones, it can be a little bit You might have some work to do. Maybe you can try to talk to some people who it is. But for some of the bigger companies, you For example, if we were to Google Culture You would find out that they are driven by So, they're of values driven company. So, knowing that, if I had an interview with and then I would align myself with those values. I would prepare to speak their language. So, when I go into the interview I sound like as them and I'm mirroring who they are and And so, when they see that, they're like, you understand us. I think you should be one of us. Thats how you get them. And that's how you hook an employer into seeing You show them that you're like them, then It's as simple as that. And that's how you differentiate yourself You're smarter than everyone else because you're trying to make yourself better. You're trying to improve yourself. So, I know you're better. I know you're smarter. This is going to give you the edge. So, find out what the values are of the company, that person in the interview. You're going to go so much farther. Now, let's look at another example. Let's say we look up the Apple culture. And maybe you know this, maybe you don't, important to them is innovation; new products Sure, they have values, they have principles, IBM. They're a product and innovation company. So, now you know something about Apple. Now, you know how to go in and align yourself You talk about how you are innovative, you things that inspire you, you talk about ideas Show them that you are a wealth of ideas, with Apple's culture. And you know what? They're going to say, Hey, we like the You think like us, you sound like us, why We think you belong over here with us. That's how you do it my friend. Another example, Amazon is a very customer That's their value. So, knowing that, you go into the interview working with customers and how you love making of and they get everything they need. Thats the angle you take in Amazon. So, you know their values and then you be values are. And you know what? You might also find that you are not the person; Maybe you read the Amazon values statement Thats not who I am. And so, maybe that's not a good company for for you to work at because you're not that I mean, you know who you are deep down inside. And if you put yourself in a position at a ideologically don't fit, you're not going So, do this exercise, not to trick a company charade and be something that you're not. Use this as an opportunity to find out who and then decide if that's you. If that's you, then go in there, gangbusters Be that person in the interview and let your And you'll be so passionate about everything that you'll just naturally come alive in that They will want to invite you in to their culture. That's how you do it. To go just a little bit deeper on values, Let's say you are going on a first date with you happen to be a hunter. So, going on a first date with someone who you talk about how you love hunting probably you are at odds. You're ideologically opposed to this person's So, this person isn't going to want to go Now, let's say you know that this person you're let's say you are an active hunter and there's this person loves fuzzy bunnies and kitties, Maybe instead, you talk about your own love Maybe you talk about the dog you have or the I mean, you can still be a hunter and still There's nothing wrong with that. But if you see where I'm going with this, you don't want to be dating someone who's Maybe there's just too much of a difference That just goes back to values and principles That's why it's so important that your own theirs. And that's why they only want to hire people theirs. Because otherwise, you're a weed in their who are not a fit into their culture. I mean, sure maybe you're qualified, maybe why you're struggling. Maybe that's why you're struggling with getting experience, you are a master at your craft, you. And maybe they're not hiring you because you You're not a values fit. Your principles aren't aligned with theirs. Or maybe they are, but maybe you're not making Maybe you don't know what their principles you are related, how you can fit into their That's one of the biggest mistakes most candidates the right questions. That's what they think getting hired is. It's all about answering the right questions Why else wouldn't you want to hire me? It's so much more than that; its so much And this is the thing that most candidates This is why I want you to go out on your next at this company, and then align yourself with Show them that you are like-minded, show them with their mission statement. Find out what their mission statement is. That's where they list their values and their So, find out what that is. Align yourself to that if you're a match. If you're not, then that's a signal for you else. But if you are a fit; if you are a fundamental values, and their principles, then go in there And then combined with that and your experience, You're going to get the job hands down; I If you don't, you're going to be a top contender So, do that my friend. Go out there on your next interview and align so much farther. I guarantee it. Now, on your next interview, make sure that Guide. This is the quick download. It's got about 150 different questions in It's going to teach you the right framework because they're going to ask you questions They're going to ask you, Why do you want What are your weaknesses? Tell me about yourself. What can you do for us that no one else can? and I go into great detail in this guide and You can get this guide in physical form, hardcopy, It's quick download from jobinterviewtools.com. It's like 47 bucks. It would be a great investment. It's also got a whole bunch of different questions Because it's important that you ask them questions This helps you qualify them whether they are So, this is going to teach you the right questions So, before your next interview, grab a copy You won't be sorry. I guarantee you that. So, that's all I have for you today my friend. Good luck on your next interview and I will If you're ready to ace your next interview, You can't just show up for a job interview You know that. You have to give yourself an advantage. So, if you'd like to learn more from me than copy of The Complete Interview Answer Guide the right way. Inside, youre getting like 20 years of teach you what you need to say to employers, So, if it's been a while since your last job don't spend countless hours figuring out this Instead, let me take you by the hand and show When you order your copy from jobinterviewtools.com, and job seekers all over the world and you're a million get hired for their number one job. You'll also get direct e-mail access where take on your situation, so you'll never be And finally, if you found this video helpful, subscribe to my channel, so you'll get notifications And by subscribing, you support me, my message, So, I'd really appreciate it. Make sure you hit Subscribe.