What do Adolf Hitler, Queen Elizabeth II, All four of them are believed to be the No, really! All four are considered to renowned French astrologer Nostradamus, who all the way back in the 16th Century! first written in 1555, are still being sold Nostradamus' predictions are vague enough deny how eerily accurate some of them have been. of various world leaders, the reigns of kings, and there are his predictions of tragedies on a scale like the birth of the Atomic Bomb or the Trade Center! These are all of Nostradamus' came true - and even some that might Better keep watching, unless you want Let's start with one of Nostradamus' years after he first wrote Les Propheties: Nostradamus had written, "The young on the field of combat in a single battle; he two wounds made one, then he dies a cruel death." the then-king of France would face off than him named Gabriel, comte de Montgomery. and during the final pass, Gabriel's lance angled shards. One was driven through the visor of the part of the splintered lance was lodged in Henry's in agony from his injuries before dying slowly According to some reports, the two jousters' lion,' Gabriel, overcoming the older, Henry, Pretty on the nose, right? time that Nostradamus would be right about a "The blood of the just will commit a fault at the six: the ancient Lady will topple from her a hundred and eleven years before 1666, when A small fire spreading from a bakery on Pudding much of the city and lasted three whole days. of the just', though? Peasant fatalities the Great Fire eliminated millions of rats the Black Death. The plague was certainly and its spread was largely halted by the fire. even by Nostradamus' usual standards, but it could which is pretty ancient; it was first 'Londinium' by the Romans after their invasion. but one of the most famous in history might have It seemed Nostradamus could hear the people early, proclaiming in one of his quatrain poems the enslaved, held captive by the nobility idiots will take these as divine utterances." change? Sounds a lot like the French Revolution. the brutal rule of the aristocracy and the and the poorer citizens. There was widespread in the Bastille, a medieval fortress in Paris that those sent there were... how, would dear "held captive by the nobility in their prisons." the French monarchy, and armed Parisians took to toppling a symbol of the monarchy's So, who were the 'brainless idiots' Well, in order to have their demands met, of French royalty, including King Louis XVI 'brainless' when guillotines beheaded them. event in France's history that Nostradamus Of the nine hundred verses written by Nostradamus visions of things to come, one of his poems swimming in praise, the great man hurries to the Pampon and Durrance will confine them." to what that all means, but Pau, Nay, and Loron in Paris (although the last one is actually these three town names are actually an anagram prophecies were originally transcribed in a mix Greek, and Latin, and he occasionally referred to anagrams of older forms of their names. eerily similar to the French phrase Yes, that's Napoleon, as in Napoleon Bonaparte, Revolution and drove his army across Europe in than blood" could very well be a reference seizing power through a coup. Plus, his nothing to do with avian migration paths, imprisoned two Popes, Pius VI and VII. pretty impressive. But predicting events from that's quite the party trick! And Nostradamus' being about France. In one quatrain, he wrote: he will reduce the Arab army, then, halfway him. A young onion will destroy his fortune." linked to the Catholic King of Spain, Philip Nostradamus' prophecies were first published. certainly prospered, as the French prophet said, man during the early years of his reign. the fleet of the Ottoman Empire at the Arab army,' and Philip II even enacted which seemed to line up with the prediction. turn against Philip when, in 1587, Mary Queen of and her death marked an end to Philip's alliance Spanish Armada invade the country, the English Oh, and that 'young onion' Nostradamus King Philip II's fortune? That wasn't but rather the thirty-six-year-old King Henri Philip over their differences in religion. Louis Pasteur is one of the most important when referred to as the father of microbiology, pasteurization - which removes bacteria from for human consumption - and fermentation proving that bacteria didn't just spontaneously Pasteur's early contributions to science changed vaccines, especially those used to treat rabies about a famed astrologer and seer to the man about bacteria? Well, that's because Nostradamus too, writing: "The lost thing is discovered, celebrated almost as a God-like figure. This but by other rumors, he shall be dishonored." believed to be referencing the microscopic given that they're so small they remain for many centuries.' But Nostradamus' In 1995, it was revealed by science The Private Science of Louis Pasteur, that Pasteur in his version of the anthrax vaccine in order to From the nice and accurate prophecies about a tyrannical rise of one of history's most infamous Reich and a man responsible for some of the most There's a high chance you already know exactly who been well documented, especially on this channel Nostradamus wrote the following: "From a young child will be born of poor people, he who will increase towards the realm of the East." Not only was Hitler known to have been born just as prophesized, but like many who held - and to verbally sway people as a way of accumulating manipulating their preexisting biases. Then, when you take into account how Hitler that opposed the allies during World War Two, his the East' thanks to Hitler's alliance with Japan. related to Hitler and the Second World War. In hunger will cross the rivers, the greater part a cage of iron will the great one be drawn, While some think that 'Hister' is a mistranslated the Latin name for the Danube River. This is the Black Forest in Germany, out to the Black Sea. not only various parts of Germany but also Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova, and Ukraine. And were occupied by the Nazis during the Second World about the Danube River? Just a few miles away is that was known as Austria-Hungary at the time... Ever the prophet to keep a close eye on his prediction about France during World War Two. a man named De Gaulle is a three-time leader, he will be renowned above all monarchs." de Gaulle? Well, that reference is about as direct Sure enough, Charles de Gaulle was a 'three-time which was France's government in exile during the Following the war, de Gaulle was then the prime government. That's two. In 1959, he was the very which made a hat trick for Mr Charles De Gaulle for reigning clairvoyant champ Nostradamus! been pretty great for old Nostradamus, it is - just like I said it would! But if he really did see them coming, must've been too case with this next entry: "The heavenly dart a great achievement. The proud nation brought monstrous human, bring purge, then expiation." World War was marked by the destruction of dropped two atomic bombs on Japan. Hiroshima had roughly forty thousand soldiers stationed there. were killed by the bomb. Then, three days after on Nagasaki, killing a further seventy thousand. in the world at the time. Any who managed by the blast were faced with a slower, painful bomb - the 'heavenly dart' that fell from the scientific creation, the 'great achievement' of lives in the 'proud nation' of Japan. the tree.' This is thought by some to be the mushroom cloud that filled the sky towering above what little remained of Hiroshima has long since been used to invoke the inherent himself might have even been haunted by if Many of Nostradamus' nearly nine hundred quatrains such as one that seemingly foretold one of the the assassination of President John F Kennedy. "The ancient task will be completed from dead innocent will be accused of the deed, Now, you probably already know JFK was shot dead in the backseat of a car while Texas. The sniper's shot was thought to have been would seem to be an accurate assessment But speculation and conspiracy theories have long years after the supposed assassin, Lee Harvey Many believe that either Oswald didn't act might have had a hand in killing Kennedy, with Nostradamus' prophecies almost lean directly into dead innocent being accused of the deed. a patsy and innocent but was killed by the owner stand trial. Pretty convenient way to sweep a the accused isn't alive to defend himself. is especially ominous, but hey, it's not like would ever make attempts on the lives of public believe. Even today, nobody is entirely certain Lee Harvey Oswald was indeed innocent, and with Oliver Stone should have Speaking of tragic deaths that left a scar on States, one of Nostradamus' writings stated that approaches the great new city. By fire, he will will pour, mercy to none." Stop us if you can tell a lot like New York, so great they named it twice. cold, cruel heart responsible for spilling blood; One of the deadliest terror attacks in the when two planes struck the World Trade Center. hundred and twenty four lives being lost during a D.C. Thousands were injured, and the United States It doesn't seem like much of a leap to link with New York City - just as any proud New Yorker, lines about a 'cold and cruel heart' and 'mercy of the attack, the terrorist group al-Qaeda. pretty high chance you've seen at least one of But forty-five degrees is pretty interesting. of the smoke or even the Towers themselves, but There's just one problem there: that's nowhere under five hundred miles away in Maine. So, the original version of this quatrain has been Nostradamus actually saw the 9/11 attacks coming. of Nostradamus' prophecies that might have years of the tumultuous decade that is the the world at large, to say the least. And, of that Nostradamus' writings were foretelling of One of his pieces included a line that War in Ukraine: "Seven months the Great Evreux shall not fall to the King." between Russia and Ukraine will escalate into a third world war are always rampant, especially landscape of the world over the last few years. innocent people who are now 'dead of evil-doing' more forced to leave their homes and flee to have been a bit cynical on Nostradamus' part, as - War Three, thankfully, hasn't broken out... yet. it turns out that Nostradamus might also have that's according to one person's interpretations Complete Prophecies for the Future was written by until it managed to sell a considerable number of death of the British monarch and nearly eight shelves in the subsequent weeks after she died. Nostradamus' quatrains had overlooked an under the numbers 10/22, Reading believed that meaning it would take place during the tenth since Queen Liz did eventually pass on in The quatrain itself read: "Because they they considered unworthy, the People will force will have no mark of a king." And if you know you might have some inclination as to which of its Reading believed that this prediction, as well as way of saying that Prince Charles would likely dislike for him among the British public. A lot the widely beloved Princess Diana, and harbor some wife, Camilla Parker Bowles, who he'd been having Charles III hasn't yet abdicated, but hey, down in the comments, folks! he died in 2017 and didn't get to see whether accurate. But that doesn't rule out a possible Nostradamus supposedly foretold. In something of a from as recent as early 2024, Charles III deteriorates badly enough, he could well be 'alternative medicine,' it's entirely possible Speaking of weird rich guys, billionaire and to be the subject of one of these prophecies. follows: "The two contenders will unite The African leader is fearful and trembles. The while our old pal Mario Reading believed, be foretelling two large global superpowers his son, Laurie, has a different... Reading. Nostradamus references is none other than Elon not spending too much time on Twitter, one been colonizing Mars, which would link to There are a number of other Nostradamus prophecies like one that states, "So high will the bushel man." When taken as a metaphor, it's hard not to the super-wealthy and the rest of us. Inflation in the last few years, and it seems like pardon the pun - right on the money with that one. when Republican members of the House over who they wanted to elect as Speaker spearheaded by far-right members, led to the a small group of Republicans caused Congress the government almost happened as a result, and House ousting its speaker for the first time in US had that one earmarked as coming up, too. relating to it is tricky, there are references and a complicated and turbulent time. Then again, that this could be related to the farce that took others have interpreted it as being about the impact on the Vatican. The thing with a lot plenty that are pretty ambiguous and very With that being said, though, quite a number of accurate over the course of history. But some of the ones that are still yet to come to the fifteenth-century Frenchman? holds links to the ongoing climate crisis: seen. For forty years it will be seen every and there will be great floods when it is seen." seen rainbows in the last forty years, it's patterns occurring the world over as a result of temperatures are much more commonplace now, with than thirty-four degrees Fahrenheit by the end of on record, with many leading climate scientists unless more is done now, the consequences for the That's far from all that could be in store I hope you like geopolitical conflicts, everyone, Many experts in geopolitics are concerned and as the latter has grown in power, some two. Among those concerned is, you guessed it, Nostradamus predicted that a "Red adversary great Ocean in dread." Some have taken the 'Red who haven't shied away from displaying particularly around the South China Sea. that Nostradamus warned was on the horizon for of his about the contested British King, "The A man will replace who never expected to be Nostradamus' prophecies that he interpreted this being replaced not by the popular choice Prince William, but instead by Prince Harry. who has 'no mark of a king' could easily estrangement from the Royal Family along maybe being replaced by someone with no mark of especially since the same prophecy tells of the Another of Nostradamus' upcoming predictions the Vatican's Next Top Pope might be stepping of Nostradamus' writings: "Through the death of be elected." That's right, this isn't just going improved, young Pope! Somebody call Jude Law! health problems, mostly owing to the fact he's used to be by that age, no amount of Holy Spirit Pontiff' being replaced by a more vigorous 'Roman when you take Nostradamus' word for it. this young Pope might wear the big white hat for 'weaken his see'... whatever that means! it could mean that the influence of the Vatican a younger Pope at the helm, or that they could be Nostradamus might well have been clairvoyant, who also once claimed to have invented a pill was expelled from medical school because he for a side hustle, and yet he still found work get high on nutmeg to induce hallucinations, of the visions he alludes to in his purposely Most of his quatrains could even be applied to he wrote them. Take the "Fire approaches the great eruption of Mount Vesuvius and the destruction of The thing about prophecies isn't really to predict it's almost the exact opposite. Prophecies and they were portents of things to come, but really usually as a way to reassure Then again, maybe anyone can see the future, leave a like on this video, and check out Like "Ancient Prophecies That Actually Came True."