It's a morning when I woke up at 5:30, still dimly lit. I got up, washed my face, brushed my teeth and took care of my skin. I notice the dryness of the room these days when I feel discomfort in my throat and ears. I am wondering if I should buy a humidifier. When the new year starts, I'm happy with just watching YouTube and doing some simple stretches to feel like I'm getting something off my back! I've heard that if you change the time you write in your journal from night to morning, the content will also change. I have a list of words I've come across, things to do, mumbo-jumbo in my mind, and Today I made an ideal time schedule for morning activities. The other day I put on a pair of denims that I quickly took from the washing machine and went outside. The hem was so wrinkled. This skirt also comes with a bitter memory that I noticed a furball after I came home after wearing it. I have a replacement blade for my hairball remover, but I have not been able to change the blade because the cap is no longer removable. I'll try to get as far as I can today. I've been thinking a lot about hairballs, ironing these days... I've already had a satisfying day today, being able to do home cleaners. It went by faster than I thought it would. It's more eye-opening to be out in the sun. When it's light outside, I finally get dressed and I make a smoothie with frozen kiwi for breakfast. I add a pinch of salt to 100cc of amazake and heat it up. Add two kiwis and stir. Slightly warm smoothie is ready. This cupboard doesn't fit in the kitchen, so I'm using it here. It's still a little inconvenient if it's not right next to the kitchen. I bought a great bouquet of recycled flowers from some event! I had a bunch of them on display. I love the weak scent of the candles when I pass by them. I also like the delicate glass that seems to break. It's a spoon whose handle doesn't stick to the condiment. For some reason, my honey jar has been sticky lately, even after wiping it down. I found just the cutest jar. I was so distressed that I put the expiration date on the bottom of the jar. I put off washing the canisters and started the new year. I put a teaspoon in the salt and a tablespoon in the sugar. I accidentally put a cutting board on a still warm induction heating. I bought a new cutting board. I'm still getting used to the new place, and there are a lot of things I want to review here and there, such as storage and what I'm using. It's been about a month in the blink of an eye, lol. My sister gave me an avocado cutter as a gift. I think the avocado was too soft. When I cooked junk sandwich, Put the potatoes in a bag. Add salt and white pepper and shake. Put them in the oil before heating and fry them over medium heat. Crispy and flaky fries inside. like I feel like I'm on a trip abroad, I was watching the drama while I was eating, and I was horrified at myself for almost eating it all. I saved the rest for breakfast tomorrow. I knew it was too early for a cold latte, so I heated it up in the microwave. I've always longed to use a glass pen. I suddenly saw an ad on Instagram for a glass pen kit and It also comes with a watercolor pen set that allows me to draw botanical art. It's very helpful for me, as I don't have the artistic ability, to have drafts to practice with. I lost track of time and just kept moving on to the next step. In no time at all, the sun was setting and the room was getting cold. That's all for now, and I'll see you next time. I'm going to make dashi stock with a dashi packet and prepare dinner for the evening. Cut 40g each of burdock root and carrot into 1cm cubes. 80 g chicken meat. Put dried shiitake mushrooms back in water overnight. Heat 1 teaspoon of oil and fry the chicken first. Add 1 cup of soup stock Add shiitake mushroom stock 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 tablespoon light soy sauce Cut fried tofu in half, swabbed and flipped over. Two rice cakes left over from New Year's. 200cc Bring to a boil over medium heat and when bubbles start to appear. Cover and cook over low heat for 10 minutes 100g ground pork, 1 tablespoon sake, 1 1/2 tablespoons soy sauce, 1/2 tablespoon sugar. 100 g chopped onion 1/2 cup soup stock, 300g potatoes Make miso soup with the rest of dashi broth. A cup of white miso for dressing and a spoonful for miso soup. I also add some leftover avocado from the morning. When the potatoes are cooked, mash them. Mix mayonnaise with white soybean paste. When the potatoes are heated through, stuff them into fried tofu. I made a lot of it and ate it for three days. Add salt and boil quickly. Kitsune croquettes with deep-fried tofu instead of batter. I liked how easy and crispy they were to fry and how easy they were to wash. White miso, mayonnaise, cheese burdock root are good smell. It was a menu that filled me up. I finished breakfast with yesterday's leftovers. I was thinking of moving it to a larger storage area because it's overflowing with cutlery. I decided to try a diagonal storage case because it looked like a good idea. perfect fit. I'd better leave the wooden spoons outside. I have to be careful not to lose the case that's provided. I can't go wrong with salted kelp in sweet zenzai. Thank you for watching to the end!