In the year 401 BC, Greek Golden Age, was fighting a bitter civil war against throne of Persia. mercenary army of mostly Greek soldiers; road to Persia to fight on his behalf. adventurer named Xenophon, in his work entitled Anabasis. enemy Persian army at the battle of on the banks of the Euphrates River, value for his money. back, had hired them. they heard the bad news. apparently knocked from his horse by a His claim to the throne of Persia had For the Greeks, this must have been Their long journey, the victorious battle, nothing. all of their senior commanders captured, stranded in the middle of a foreign land. 10,000 men had to find their way They knew that their only route was to wide deserts of what is today Iraq. supplies and the enemy army was already They hastily elected some leaders from He told his men to throw away everything shedding weight in order to outrun their So, they pelted across the deserts date palms, following the course of the It's while they fled in this manner must have made them stop in their tracks. city, and full of the vast ruins of ancient This city was larger than anything and later he wrote about this discovery The Greeks continued their march day and arrived at the Tigris River. was 25 feet in breadth, 100 in height, kilometers. a stone foundation six meters high. a plethrum in breadth Upon this pyramid were many barbarians villages. But Xenophon didn't have time to linger. them, and he couldn't spare any time to They dashed onwards, But then, only a day or two later, the even larger and more impressive, crumbling walls. The Greeks marched 34 kilometers to deserted and lying in ruins. polished stone, full of shells. It was 15 Upon this foundation was built a wall of 15 meters in breadth and 30 meters in and the circuit of the wall was 30 Once again, they had no time to stop, lonely crumbling ruins affected Xenophon. people he encountered who had built such there in the desert. anything, and it seemed no one even knew Some people thought they might have been occupied the area. the gods bringing down fire and thunder killing everyone who had once lived Today, we do know the names of these the end of the 5th century BC, them and write an account. Nineveh. across these ruins nearly two and a half Parthenon in Athens had been laid only would not be built for another 500 years. an ancient ruin for more than two This mighty city had flourished, boomed of thousands of people. ancient world's most beautiful art and and then all at once fallen into dust. return to Greece, and when he wrote his those moments when he looked out over the grasses sprouting between the his hair and tugged at his clothes. asked himself, vast cities out here in the desert? so completely beneath the sands? there, happened to them? My name's Paul Cooper and you're podcast. of the past that rose to glory history. common? What led to their fall? alive at the time who witnessed the end In this episode, I want to look at one of civilizations; the society known today as I want to explore how the Assyrians the Bronze Age and built an empire of I want to show how they expanded and first military superpower, as well as of art and learning. what happened to cause their final, In this episode, we return for the first in Episode 8 on the Sumerians. Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia is a vast floodplain. been watered by two great rivers; the These great watercourses flow south from enormous quantities of silt down with If we were to soar high above the rivers as vivid lines of green snaking The rivers Tigris and Euphrates form one arm to be known as the Fertile Crescent. shape of a half moon southern Iraq to the humid coast of Syria. through the mountainous lands of Lebanon, Israel and into Egypt, watered by the Surrounded by high, treacherous mountains Mediterranean Sea in the west, and the south, environment societies rose up. To us, the Assyrian Empire feels like a but it's worth reminding ourselves that The earliest settlements in this region, and Catalhoyuk are truly ancient, each They are some of the first evidence we after the end of the Ice Age. rich awareness of their own ancient society. Sumerians around the year humans had been passing their knowledge it's hard to overstate just how powerful The Assyrians held onto the memory of Sumerian age, revering them as Among these was the legendary hero on a quest to find the secret of eternal They still told stories about the the later Assyrians, had lived nearly two For them, Sargon was about as distant in But his name was still on their lips; about him, and drew inspiration from him, Sargon the King of Battle demonstrates. heroes with him, twelve he chose. land. He took for his weapon the lightning Like the Sumerians before them, the cities scattering their landscape, and got there. once washed over the world, brick were a remnant of this destructive, So, I think it's worth reminding Assyrians did not think of themselves as culture at the dawn of human history, but progress, and the culmination Since the fall of the Sumerian Empire, region's most common tongue, replacing the cities that had once formed part They were now a loose constellation of down the rivers Tigris and Euphrates. army, and their own god. region's early history, the Akkadians had their Sumerian cousins. Akkadian cities of the north were own journeys. Ashur. Ashur was occupied from at least the 2500 BC. rule on a bank of the river Tigris in about halfway between the modern cities Mosul. Ashur was probably an early of tents and houses built from river thatched with reeds. would have drifted through its muddy the sounds of people and the fluttering already the first canals being dug to In its early days it would have been a and it would be hard to imagine the one day construct. of Ashur did well, and some of this was It was nestled on a bend of the river and east side, and its builders improved strong buttressed walls that made it a The rivers of Mesopotamia were the They brought water for drinking and to landscape, they also acted as the barges and ships. show long boats powered with oars rivers, carrying wheat and barley, copper from the north. rivers, Ashur soon grew to be a wealthy Excavations of its houses show that by spacious mansions. keep vaults beneath their floors to hide gold and polished brass inlaid with agate, and the brilliant blue lapis Excavations have even uncovered dozens where texts written in cuneiform on clay a city overflowing with wealth. The wealthy families of Ashur were also organizations, fewer than 34 temples people of Mesopotamia, moon god Sin, the storm god Adad, Ishtar, course, the king of the gods, Enlil. streets at this time and hearing the doors and overlapping in the hot air, the for attention in the crowded city, the drums, the singing of hymns. past, chanting poetry such as this Babylonian god Marduk. may his soul shine radiant as brass. Marduk, eldest son of heaven, grant him an The temples also performed services for If you visited the temple of Ishtar with heard something like this prayer being Bind the sick man to heaven, Of the brave man who was so strong, his In his bodily frame, he lies dangerously but Ishtar, who in her dwelling is descends from her mountain, unvisited of To the door of the sick man she comes. the city of Ashur developed a god of In fact, the city virtually became a god. In the religious systems of Mesopotamia, interwoven relationship. the duties that they do for us today. need or given sacrifices to ward off But at this time, each city also had a team has a mascot. live in the highest chamber of the dedicated to them. it was considered sensible to give an were there, and if two cities went to war, battling it out in the heavens just as The more a city succeeded, the more As the city of Ashur grew in importance, the city itself, Grand temples were thrown up to this new to strength, worship of Ashur rose to its people. iconography. wearing a crown and holding a bow, center of a winged disc, looking down on he presided. grew, eventually the position of Enlil as held for a thousand years, was in Over the next centuries, the god Ashur Ninlil, and his sons Ninurta and Zababa. god for this city's people. The people of the city of Ashur would but today we call them Assyrians. Like many of the powerful cities of this Assyrians of the city of Ashur would kingdom, One great king named Shamshi-Adad ruled and he conquered large areas outside of the city. built a grand, royal palace, and the with a ziggurat, an enormous stepped statement of a city's membership to an But this early flourishing of Assyrian of Babylon, a powerful city in the south, the famous King Hammurabi. This was the fate of the people of Ashur They were able to rise a little bit fish. Babylon, the Mitanni, and the Hittites, and possession before throwing off their But throughout this time, there was also One epic poem known today as the Tukulti- It glorifies Assyrian military conquests how the ideal Assyrian king should and it also contains a vision of the people. They charged forward furiously to the They had stripped off their breastplates, their hair and polished their weapons. sharpened weapons. struggling lions, Particles drawn in a whirlwind swirled Death, as if on a day of thirsting, slakes But as the second millennium BC drew to around the years 1200 BC, astonishing The period that followed has gone down collapse. reasons we still don't entirely soon wash over this region. the Sea Peoples would land on its shores. This destruction would sweep whole and leave virtually no inhabited cities Only two great societies emerged on the one was Egypt. Egyptians managed to stop the Sea of the Nile Delta, and just about held The other was Assyria. recent conquests that were essential to keeping its trade It withdrew back to its heartland and But as the wave of destruction ended, the enormous, Towards the end of the 10th century BC, collapse was impending. She had lost all her vital arteries, the great trade passes, were in foreign lands. the heights of the Zagros, but the Valley, while Aramaean tribes pitched At this time, a serious territory land along the river Tigris, surrounded But there were also things to be For one thing, Assyria's enemies seemed For much of this history, they hated each Assyrians, Assyrian survival. no natural boundaries or defenses. For its enemies could be dealt with one by The powerful Assyrian army could march enemy in turn, and subsequent kings would this continued to be the case. virtually untouched by the disaster of continued their economic output Assyria still had chariots and horses It had access to iron, the new metal that decorative objects for centuries, but was weapons and armor. Assyria was no longer dependent on the them from across the mountains in the Iron occurs ten times more commonly in be found just about anywhere. by years of constant fighting, and were Perhaps most importantly, the line of broken for more than 200 years, claimed to draw on an ancient and people. state could say the same. must have seemed clear that if Assyria could become a power unlike any that had That man's name was Tiglath-Pileser I. ascended to the throne in the year 1114 He was the son of a harsh ruler named His father had been remorseless in his avenger of Assyria" and "merciless hero of One surviving edict by his father fraternizing with palace women was to be Tiglath-Pileser inherited at least some A series of laws was written during his Code, and they included incredibly harsh In one, a married woman who has an affair But he was an energetic ruler One of his royal inscriptions describes Unrivaled king of the universe, king of king of all princes, Ashur has sharpened, and whose name he the four quarters, land This kind of overflowing self-praise is described themselves, but in the case of challenges he faced were indeed He had inherited an Assyria that was In the north, climate shifts have been northern plains. certain Assyrian districts in the upper The Hittite people had also snatched and the powerful rival of Babylon still But Tiglath-Pileser didn't waste any conquered them, and then drove out the and everywhere he went, he placed a In one of the strong fortresses he built following message on a series of copper Altogether, I conquered 42 lands and from the other side of the Lower Zab in side of the Euphrates, people of Hatti, The king at Tiglath-Pileser also loved to live specimens of animals from the far I killed ten strong bull elephants in river Habur, and four live elephants I I brought the hides and tusks of the elephants back to my city of Ashur. Assyrian citizen of the time would have accounts were not recorded. great deal of wealth would now be Teams of construction workers would have palaces and gardens in the city. now be seen on the streets, while access new spices and fabrics would have begun Tiglath-Pileser swept his Assyrian Hittite town of Pitru, he gained control a distant body of water that, for the entire world. power in this region with no access to a the wonder in the king Tiglath-Pileser's board a ship for the first time. he hunted and killed some kind of sea I killed sea We don't know what this animal was. Many whale, while others say it was likely a it was for the king of the landlocked water. Tiglath-Pileser died in the year 1076 BC, back on a life of staggering success. recovered much of the territory that it Age collapse. that was all but unmatched in the region, dawning of a golden age for Assyria. change for good with the reign of a king Adad-Nirari was crowned in the year 910 BC, mentioning that his reign is perhaps the Eastern history that can be dated to an confidence. them, didn't keep track of years with Instead, they gave each year a name, person as a kind of honor, or named after like a great battle or an eclipse of the Assyrian scribes kept long, meticulous brief notes about important events that as the following example shows, of the eighth century BC. the city of Dur Sharruken was founded. Habruri; Kummuhi was conquered, and a The year of Sha-Assur-dubbu, governor of the vizier and nobles, the loot of Dur- Teshrit, the gods of Dur-Sharruken entered This system worked well enough for a modern historian wants to work out the have an unbroken list of year names, and historical event clearly dated, like a solar eclipse. obsessed with eclipses, believing them to and they kept incredibly careful note of The reign of Adad-Nirari is the lists. began to expand in all directions into Mediterranean coast, drawing on the The life of an Assyrian soldier was a Adad-Nirari's armies were made up They would spend much of their year families, digging canals and turning the growing beans and pulses, wheat and and cattle. Then when the spring came, hardened across the land, and a shield made of woven reeds, and into the barren desert to fight for the Sometimes they would fight other settled Other times, their opponents would be Assyrians who had rebelled. frightening experience for these men, into this service. enjoyed it. them may never have seen a mountain or outside their town or village. win more than it lost, there must have shared accomplishments. This rhythm of a season of harvest in spring Empire. conquest that was continued by the king BC, to new and unprecedented heights. Ashurnasirpal was a remorseless and and many of the things we associate cruelty and harsh treatment of enemies, Much like many rulers of this time terror tactics and tortuous methods of of his enemies. the kings of Assyria, do stand out for details of these terror tactics. Ashurnasirpal commissioned this next. I captured many troops alive. From others, I cut off their noses, ears, I gouged out the eyes of many troops. heads. city. I razed, destroyed, burnt, and consumed Whether because of these tactics or Ashurnasirpal was an effective conqueror. states and ordered to pay tribute to the Enormous wealth began to flow once again Ashurnasirpal celebrated his victories with palaces. I founded a palace of cedar, cypress, as my royal residence, I made sculptures of beasts of the limestone and alabaster, and placed them I decorated it in a splendid fashion; doorways, and put therein silver, gold, treasure from the lands I conquered. the lands over which I had gained This policy of resettling conquered Ashurnasirpal seems to have employed it far The Assyrians understood a very simple that population size meant power, cities with people from all corners of They created what must have been some of before the modern age, and we can only these conquered peoples to be uprooted unceremoniously in the vast metropolitan larger than any town they had ever seen, have been heard on the streets. But the Assyrians also used deportations way, under Ashurnasirpal. a light punishment when compared to the way of the kings of Assyria, for crushing resistance to the empire. throughout history are so connected to uprooting had a devastating was done to. so effective that it has been employed Stalin famously deported at least six more than 20 ethnic minority groups and in the early days of the American taken as slaves, they were always their relationship with the land and Whether despite this cruelty or because keep the empire together and but he was followed by his son, a man who would not be so capable. enthusiastically continued his father's mass deportation, people of Assyria had had enough. broke out across the entire empire. rose up in rebellion, allowed virtually all of the people that Assyrian rule. of the region had made them hated, and it build a lasting empire, something would One king named Tiglath-Pileser III and it was not a softer and more He decided in characteristic Assyrian a much more powerful army. Up until the middle of the 8th century the Assyrian army was much the same as only a good deal larger, for the time. once boasted a force of 120,000 men at a estimated at only 50 million. then at that time, around world's entire population, was at that But it was still a force made up of peasants. The only professional soldiers and other nobles, cities and palaces, and rarely saw battle. made up of farmers, who as we've seen, the need arose, Although the empire could summon a vast force. barley grew golden in the fields, these back home and bring in the crops, go hungry. was an immensely time-consuming and Rebellions could break out at any time corner of the empire, the Assyrians had to begin. soldiers required, and then another month face it. nearly time for the annual harvest, and back home. could simply lock its gates armies of Assyria to go away, and in many But in the year 745 BC, the king Tiglath- He chose his royal name after the king greatness more than three centuries who had forged a path to the creature known as a nahiru. in a radical program of reforming the truly modern army. into a body of elite armored troops, and he demanded that conquered supplied all of the army's light and often bore the brunt of the The Assyrian army also pioneered the use fighting force. and dig tunnels, construct fortifications the supply lines needed to keep an army This combined fighting force of soldiers that would make the Roman military so Assyrian carvings show remarkably of the land's great rivers, multiple times a year. sheepskins to inflate them and use as chariots dismantled and turned into supplies and equipment; through the treacherous mountains, Assyrian king Sargon II seems Mount Simirria is a great mountain peak spear. Its summit touches the sky above, below into the netherworld. chariotry or for allowing horses, and its passage of foot soldiers. axes; they cut through the high mountain thereby improved the path. chariotry, cavalry, and battle troops fly eagles. infantry follow behind them. The camels its peaks like the ibexes native to the the god Ashur ascend its difficult slopes on top of that mountain. Tiglath-Pileser also increased production It was a small-scale industrial Assyrian cities of this time must have furnaces belching charcoal smoke, the echoing off the buildings. enter the era of true mass production. arrowheads, knives, pins, and chains, iron swords, iron spear blades, iron tunics. In the year 743 BC, throne, King Tiglath-Pileser marched north conquered it easily. Syria against the kingdom of Arpad. The people of the city of Arpad had and they knew what to do. hold tight. fearsome, but they knew that when the go home and harvest their fields just as But as autumn came, the people of Arpad wrong. home. settling in for a long stay. Arpad for three years, something that seasonal armies. king ordered Arpad to be destroyed and clear message to all those who stood in that a new age was dawning. Much like superpowers today, the Assyrian boundaries as zones of extraction, mattered was the empire's continued Assyria would grow rich from the areas. that cruel king Ashurnasirpal II campaign of terror against the region of I received harnessed chariots, 460 harness-trained horses, 100 talents of tin, 300 talents of iron, 3,000 bronze bronze containers, trim, chests, couches of ivory and decorated also 2,000 oxen, 5,000 sheep, his daughters of his nobles. On top of this, 15,000 slaves Assyria to labor in manual jobs and In campaign after campaign, Tiglath- marched all the way down the cities all the way to Egypt. Israel, destroyed their army, large numbers of Hebrew tribes back to Tiglath-Pileser also added one more Assyrian conquests; of the south, the great city of Babylon. The city of Babylon had been the southern Mesopotamia for more than a It was perhaps the most ancient and this time, it ruled over an area known This is a landscape of marshes covering on the coast of the Persian Gulf. Middle East, and the reeds often grow so high that Mesopotamia had once been divided the Akkadians in the north, Babylonians in the south and Assyrians and it's a cultural division that still In modern times, the distribution of the roughly follow this same geographical Babylon was the largest city in the it was perhaps the first city to ever 200,000. 85 kilometers south of Baghdad, a Its famous Ishtar Gate, with its ornate lions, and dragons were at this time but Babylon would have still been a Tiglath-Pileser's conquest of Mesopotamia. the empire encompassed almost the whole Crescent. the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean, Indian Ocean with those of North Africa Its roads would have been thick with rivers full of barges carrying spices wheat, barley and fruit, It was this empire and the formidable Tiglath-Pileser III would pass down to who would found the greatest dynasty of His name was Sargon II, hero. Sargonid Kings. that would form the highest point of the literature, but they would also be the When these three generations ended, and flame. At this point, I think it's worth pausing average citizen of the Assyrian Empire? actually have a great deal of detail Mesopotamia lived. on clay tablets, which is lucky for us durable. writing have been recovered, so many that been looked at by a trained expert, and The experience of reading these tablets countless voices speaking up to us from remarkable array of everyday matters. this letter from a child away at school children have nicer clothes than he does. the following message; young gentleman here become better, but to year. only an assistant of my father, has two about a single set for me. to me and his mother only adopted him, you do not love me. As a result of this rich collection of picture of what life was like for these Walking the streets of a great Assyrian every one of your senses. soon become the capital of the empire, Xenophon would one day pass by pursuing him. time. built of a stone foundation surmounted seven and a half square kilometers. many of them named after gods such as storms, or the Shamash Gate after the god while others carried more descriptive of the Water Carriers. with water from the river Tigris. of rooftops, its alleyways would have been covered the heat, much as they still are in Iraq In the courtyards of houses, skins of rafters to cool. in a clay pot on a fireplace, a clay charcoal oven nearby. translated from a clay tablet shows the wafting through the city streets in the Stew of lamb; You prepare water. You add fat. dried barley cakes, onion, shallot, and You crush together and add leek and Like the Sumerians before them, the it in groups, sipping it from large urns Beer held a prominent place in Assyrian king Ashurbanipal shows that even in the among life's greatest pleasures. In my years, there is abundance. Good beer I have placed in my palace. Nineveh sat on the river Tigris, and had the gate known as the dock gate. full of the smells of dried and fresh of the crowd, people arguing over prices languages. barges or ships woven from reeds, perhaps clay urns full of beer or wine. instructions from a wine merchant to a Tell Ahuni Belanum sends the following good health. sweet-smelling reeds I spoke to you as well as a boat for transporting wine. shekels' worth of wine and join me here But the Tigris was a fast-flowing river, sailing back upstream was very difficult. back by road, accompanied by caravans of The road system was now much improved sophisticated highway network now joined milestones at regular intervals telling go. But the roads were often dangerous, banditry was extremely common. his frustration with the lack of Tell Sin-Iddinam Sillee sends the I have written to you repeatedly to robbers, and so, fires started by the robbers are countryside. crimes which are committed in the In the cities, a great deal of life took During the day, women would gather on maintaining their homes. and knead the dough to make bread, wash linen, and hang it out to dry. We can neighbors from roof to roof as they drifting overhead. the Iraqi sun often reaching more than Fahrenheit, the heat would drive everyone finer houses of the city often had a polished alabaster or marble, and the During the hottest parts of the day, the water to cool the air inside. while the rich had wooden bed frames The richest of the citizens had beds It's not just people that were Assyrians believed that the world was spirits who could not be seen or heard, felt, and who often manifested as bad These demons were responsible for the constant attention of exorcists to The following letter recounts the suffering from epilepsy. the exorcist rises and hangs a mouse and patient's door. and puts on a red cloak. falcon on his left, are evil!" exorcist go around the bed of the followed by incense and a torch, hutupu!" this every morning and evening. Talismans were often used to ward off in bronze or clay, sometimes precious They were often frightening images of and dogs, and the tails of scorpions. of the house to ward off evil. these small talismans hanging from the For many Assyrians, called a cylinder seal. some no larger than a battery, which had into them. The idea was that someone seal, and they could be used to sign People would wear them around their was written on clay, they would roll the image was left printed on it. door using clay or wax, and then print it knew the last person to open it. member of the king's household shows the manners of official business. that Siqi-ilani will be coming to you the entrance of the warehouse, monster for resealing the chests. open the storehouse, and take as many as in the chests under my seal. Put your returned, But these cylinders were expensive, an important person of high class. and to sign a contract, they would simply meaning that the marks of these ancient these documents. The people who lived these countless Assyrian cities were probably largely grand palaces that loomed over their They would have likely followed the interest the way we might pay attention but to them, the inner workings of the inaccessible and mysterious as the But what happened in those inner on their lives, Assyria, the Sargonid Kings, took to the the dramas of the royal court all those who called Assyria their home. The drama of the Sargonid Kings truly named Sennacherib. and he would begin one of the most us from the ancient world, and he would last two great kings of Assyria; Esarhaddon This great drama got off to a remarkably Sennacherib's father, Sargon, had been a but it's clear that something about hold the same level of command. Assyrian vassals in the foothills to the Mediterranean coast all suddenly stopped The Egyptians, always happy to throw sand back the rebels' fight for independence, himself plunged into a fight for the The young king quickly gathered the full with the rebel kings in the usual one. peoples of the Iranian lowlands. Fertile Crescent to the Mediterranean kingdoms there, as he recalls in the With the weapons of the god Ashur, my lord, I turned them back and made them retreat. king of the land of Elam, jewelry like fattened bulls restrained I slit their throats like sheep and cut Like a flood after a rainstorm, I made The swift horses, harnessed to my chariot, The wheels of my war chariot, which lays in blood and gore. their warriors like grass. hands like the stems of cucumbers in One of these campaigns is remarkable by both the winners and the losers in a anywhere else in the 8th century BC. survived not just in the chronicles of This was Sennacherib's campaign against The Kingdom of Judah was one of the it centered on the powerful city of It had once been part of a united Assyrian aggression, the kingdom had been Kingdom of Israel in the north ruled by and Judah in the man named Hezekiah. have been driven by religious fervor. The religion of the ancient Israelites region at the time, because it disallowed god Yahweh. Assyria was a much more eclectic affair. you were visiting Babylon on business, got home. You might make an offering to voyage by boat, or to Gula if someone you In the Assyrian worldview, the gods of and were thought to be subordinate to still thought to very much exist. kidnapping the gods of their conquered Sometimes when they captured a new city, back to the Assyrian capital as a way of But the religion of the Hebrews was it held that there was only one god. believed that you were at best talking evil spirits. strident religious rulers of ancient He enacted sweeping religious reforms, only the Jewish god Yahweh. from the temple of Jerusalem, as the Book Bible recalls. Now it came to pass in the third year of Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah right in the eyes of the lord, had done. pillars, serpent that Moses had made, Israel did offer to it. Perhaps it was Hezekiah's religious enormous gamble of defying the Assyrian or perhaps the recent rebellions in believed that it might be on the brink Whatever his calculation, it backfired He soon heard news that the Assyrian punish the Kingdom of Judah with the The news coming from the north would Sennacherib first conquered the rebels swung his armies south to march on On the road, he came across the fortified Lachish was the second-most important of It was built on a hill about 40 Jerusalem, and had a strong wall running The hill was steeper on the north side its gate had been built. citizens of Lachish would have seen one From the north, a great cloud of dust horizon, on its way. would have been able to hear the If you've ever been inside a large imagine what three or four times as many all marching together in their heavy clattering of chariot wheels and Finally, the enormous force would have In the center of their formations, the organized into tight, compact units, Even more terrifying would be the engines The Judean military was insignificant in They were made up of militias and Lachish that must have suddenly seemed What happened next is depicted on a meticulous detail in gypsum, designed to southwest palace in Nineveh. been coloured, their details picked out The Lachish relief the events it depicts are horrific. history that would otherwise be and the faces of the soldiers and the The Assyrians first built a camp and the city, engineering came into play. built a ramp of stone and earth leading It would have been around-the-clock Assyrian workers toiled to form the mud in the sun, they built it, the occasional arrow or defenders on the walls. can be clearly seen in the Lachish. out of iron, and in desperation began to Finally, when the ramp was completed, the rumbled into life. an iron age tank. frame like a mobile fortress on enormous They had a tower on top from which At the front of the engine was a large, battering ram, a spear, and a hammer. This enemy cities, and stones, and slowly wearing them down. these engines on fire, and so, they were hides. would hurry up to the front lines, the engine and putting out the fires. would have laid countless ladders The defenders rained down arrows and but the result was inevitable. The defense collapsed. People fled the and the Assyrian army finally marched From here on, the carvings begin to look As a punishment for resisting, the city The inhabitants of the city were rounded other side of the river Tigris. in long columns, high with all their possessions, in their mother's arms. being forced to play musical instruments an episode perhaps also recorded in the By the rivers of Babylon, we sat and wept There on the poplars we hung our hearts, Our tormentors demanded songs of joy. Zion. while in a foreign land? It's in this psalm too that we get one to the empire of Assyria the future, increasingly beginning to long for. Daughter Babylon, doomed to destruction, according to what you have done to us. and dashes them against the rocks. Next, the Assyrian army marched on them. He'd built a new wall around the great through solid stone that would bring But even so, the situation must have The Judean king decided that he would Hezekiah did Sennacherib, King of Assyria, come up against all the Hezekiah, king of Judah, sent to the saying Return from me The king of Assyria appointed silver and 30 talents of gold.&quot; In order to pay the bounty, he even something that must have been a king. the Assyrian king Sennacherib, who At one point, he sent his general, a man Jerusalem defenders. reminded the Jewish holdouts of all the military might of the Assyrians. Have any of the gods of the nations ever the king of Assyria? Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Of Have they delivered Samaria out of my It looked as though all was lost, to turn in Hezekiah's favor. his god Yahweh to deliver him from the and the Hebrew poet historians who wrote coming down to him from the heavens. Now have I brought it to pass. should be laid waste into ruinous heaps. the field and as the green herb, corn blasted before it is grown up. of Assyria; he shall not come unto this nor shoot an arrow there. Neither shall mound against it. that the angel of the lord went forth 104 score and 5,000. were all dead corpses. We may never know the truth of what Jerusalem. an outbreak of plague among the army of Plague was a constant threat to any been the first campaign to end in this One Egyptian account repeated by the the Assyrian army was turned back after their camp. the Assyrian bowstrings and shield This is possibly another slightly decimating an army. The Assyrian sources have been an embarrassing failure. focuses on the early victories won by Hezekiah handed over. snapshot of what the Assyrian war and how it felt to be on the receiving Still, the campaign had ended in an defeat that led the city of Babylon in The question of what to do with Babylon concerns of the Assyrian kings, and it centuries. with a distinct culture, and it was so difficult to keep it in the empire. approaches to this problem. to rule the city and its surrounding people happy, king declaring independence whenever the or deployed elsewhere. governor on the Babylonians. Assyrian kings of Babylon would often quite often be toppled in favor of some immediately declare independence. of Babylon in the family. Assyria crowning his brother or uncle as but this held another danger. ambitious, he might consider using the and take the whole empire for himself. and seemingly impossible problem had for him, the conflict had become personal. responsible for the death of one of his and after crushing his enemies in the the Mediterranean coast, he swung around beat the city of Babylon and solve the In the year 689 BC, the Assyrians laid The siege lasted for 15 months, and when this description of what happened next. I destroyed the city and its houses from I devastated and burned them. I razed and inner wall of the city, of the and I dumped these into the Arahtu canal. city. I overwhelmed it with water. I made destroyed it more completely than a impossible in future days to recognize utterly dissolved it with water Even by the standards of the time, this Burning a Judean or Elamite city to the but to do the same to the cultured, much. Sennacherib responded by kidnapping the to Nineveh, and placing him on trial. Assyrian legal officials gathered in of the god. but the broken text recounting this punishment was handed down. destroy Babylon, Its northern provinces were folded into was left in ruins. The war in Babylon seems to have drained After destroying the ancient city, he no for war. later years of his reign to building. and named it his new capital. millennia, but when Sennacherib moved He renovated its palaces and built new his early victories like the one at the as the following inscription recounts. I had a palace built with elephant ivory, juniper, and terebinth, A Rival. grown on Mount Amanus. I fastened bands of cypress, whose scent is sweet on opening I installed eight striding lions made from 11,400 god Ninagal, and were filled with One inscription on a stone lion in the queen, named Tashmetu-sharrat, contains live long and healthy lives within the Sennacherib constructed beautiful gardens plants and herbs from across his empire trees may have been imported from as far that the famous Hanging Gardens of Ancient World, may actually have been designed to represent the empire in Sennacherib recounts these efforts in I planted alongside the palace a Amanus which has all kinds of aromatic the mainstay of the mountains and Chaldea, By the end of Sennacherib's reign, city fit for the world's mightiest I think in this change we see in path that history might have taken. walls of Lachish and burned Babylon to now seemed to turn away from battle. instead. personality in this Assyrian king, pass on this spirit to his sons. Sennacherib had at least seven sons, them all, died in battle against the between the remaining younger sons who In the end, he had to decide between only These two sons were named Udru-Mulissu this seems to have been a difficult At first, the older son Udru-Mulissu was years, he seems to have fallen out of We can only guess what it was that made but considering what would go on to It may be that Sennacherib detected of Udru-Mulissu, Whatever it was, Sennacherib decided to prince instead, Esarhaddon's brothers were enraged. effect this announcement had on them. but by the command of the gods, assembly of my brothers, me. by divination, and they answered him with yes, he is your replacement. gathered together the people of Assyria, and my brothers, Afterwards, my brothers went out of their displeasing to the gods of mankind, and They butted each other like goats for and then They drew their swords godlessly in the The other brothers begged their father mind was made up. of allegiance to his brother. would have contained because we have that Assyrian kings always sent out to These were long legal documents running which they swore their loyalty to the complete with terrifying heavenly This is the treaty which the king of in the presence of the great gods of If you should remove it, consign it to in the earth or destroy it by any may Anu, malaria, sleeplessness, worries, and ill you with leprosy, and forbid your or king roam the desert like the wild May Shamash, the light of heaven and Walk about in darkness. May Ishtar, lady thick of battle. May Nabu, bearer of the name But still, the bitter former crown prince Esarhaddon's brothers began plotting to forcing him to flee to the western dangerous atmosphere in Nineveh. with bitterness. slander about me against the will of the insincere lies, hostile things behind my They alienated the well-meaning heart of against the will of the gods, his eyes were permanently fixed on me Esarhaddon's escape from Nineveh but his father Sennacherib failed to see against his own person. month of the Assyrian calendar in the Urdu-Mulissu, accompanied by another fell upon the king Sennacherib while and killed him. across the whole region. where the Assyrians were despised, people But in Assyria, the murder of the king The treacherous prince Udru-Mulissu and strength of the reaction against them. prince Esarhaddon quickly gathered an treacherous brothers in battle. but on the eve of the first battle, the masse, murdered the old king. facing virtually no resistance. his emotion upon retaking the city where I entered into Nineveh, joyful, and took my seat upon the throne The south wind blew, the wind whose blowing is favorable for They awaited me favorable signs in a message of the soothsayers, tidings giving my heart Esarhaddon's rage against the moved to execute all of their and the entire families of his brothers, I sought out every one of the guilty brothers to exercise kingship over punishment on them. exterminated their offspring. Esarhaddon had retaken the throne that but the way he was forced to take it The rest of his life he lived in a cloud trust. show that he frequently sought the asking them whether any of his relatives He spent much of his time in a heavily with high walls and only one entrance assassins. with him, Esarhaddon also set out to father had done. with the southern metropolis of Babylon Sennacherib had wrought on it. Babylonian gods should be returned to and in the year 680 BC, he announced that Many letters written between King survived, wanted to rebuild Babylon just as it had I laid its foundation platform over its accordance with this earlier plan. increase it by half a cubit. been written. strong as the base of a mighty mountain, former days. Esarhaddon's rebuilding was a clear and if reports are to be believed, it the work done on their city. Esarhaddon installed in Babylon gives a I have entered Babylon. they blessed the king every day, saying captives and booty. to the mouth of the sea blessed the king, he is the one who resettled war-maker. their activities funding and supporting His first campaign in 673 BC was an with another push two years later. of modern Turkey proclaimed the totality Memphis, his royal city, in half a day tunnels, destroyed, I devastated, But around this time, Esarhaddon's It's not exactly clear what his illness but I think there's a good argument to suffering depression. sleeping quarters without food, drink, or and matters were made much worse when passed away. chief exorcist and medicine man, This man was the one most responsible often replied with hopelessness to the as this letter written by him to the As to what the king, I'm feeling very sad. depressed for this little one of mine? you would have given away half of your but what can we do? king, my lord, Letters preserved from Esarhaddon's some detail. constant fevers, nosebleeds, and dizziness, The king often feared that his death was his body, including his face. help him, and they often wrote The king, my lord, keeps on saying to me this illness of mine and bring about its I spoke to the king at the audience and As Esarhaddon's death neared, pressing concern. over the throne could do to tear the and he wanted to do everything he could Determined not to repeat his father's inventive course of action. king of Assyria, another son he would name the king of swearing an oath to the Assyrian Empire. surviving son Shamash-shum-ukin, whole empire in his place, he appointed a named Ashurbanipal. It was a beautiful vision; ruling over the world's two greatest the two of them uniting these two cities, prosperity. one. would backfire enormously, and the war he of the Assyrian age. One day in the year 670 BC, in the city a woman fell into an ecstatic fit She ran through the street and shouted a clear and unmistakable prophecy. A slave girl of Bel-ahu-usur in the since the month of Sivan she is about him. I will destroy the name and seed of King Esarhaddon's network of spies soon was appalled at the news. across the empire, spreading this conspiracy, to have shaken him. Esarhaddon became obsessed with omens and spent a lot of their time reassuring him, The eclipse of the moon moved from the entire western quadrant to the moon. visible during the eclipse until it This is fortunate for your majesty, and westland. gather around him, Esarhaddon undertook as the substitute king. The substitute king ritual involved the hundred days, during which a substitute This was often a commoner, and he would palace, sleeping in the king's bed, eating his food. During this time, the took on the title "the farmer" to try to At the end of the hundred days, having out to get the king, the substitute was returned to the throne, Esarhaddon repeated this ritual three reign, shake the feeling of doom that had begun But it was no use. marched out to fight against those who and on the way, His condition became critical as his Mesopotamia, and he died in the town of This was the same town where only a few the woman had run through the streets, of his doom. When Esarhaddon died, his sons successfully ascended the thrones of rule that their father had planned. Shamash-shum-ukin him the statue of Marduk that his artifact that remained to be returned to The two princes took up their thrones and at first it seemed like the old age of peace. that peace wasn't to last. The reign of Ashurbanipal is without Empire. largest empire that the world had ever probably the largest city on the planet. out of the historical sources as a fully full of his own preoccupations and One of the most interesting aspects of the first Assyrian king to be able to Up until this time, reading wasn't activity. their reading for them, and rulers were pursuits like hunting and fighting. for the throne. had been preparing for some kind of he was taught to read from a young age. proud of, as this inscription written by I, Nabu, the god of learning, made myself the master of them all. the dark Akkadian language which is I took my pleasure in reading stones such works as none of the kings who went I wrote on tablets, checked and collated, perusing and reading. tablets was something quite It was the first attempt to create a books ever written could be kept. learning all across the empire, ever set in clay. of over 30,000 clay tablets. omens, peoples and animals, texts on the and stars. dictionaries for the languages of religious texts, rituals, fables, prayers, pieces of writing, as well as the great Mesopotamia. stories and tales known today, among them into the modern day because they were But Ashurbanipal would soon have to deal the Assyrian Empire. possession, was already in full rebellion, marched the Assyrian army as far south cities in classic Assyrian fashion. as usual, it only created more resistance Rebellions sprang up once again the very Egypt and stamp it out even harder. would never successfully integrate Egypt At this time, another power on the began to become an increasingly painful These were the Elamite peoples of The Elamites were an ancient people. of Sumerian society more than a built a powerful and wealthy kingdom The people of Elam had clashed with the their border is more or less in the same and Iran. had taken pains to exist peacefully with outbursts of violence on the border to Now, Elam was growing in confidence. on the battlefield, they had settled for dealing with their powerful neighbor, Assyria, they could without provoking an all-out But in the year 653 BC, it's thought that a man named Teumann, received a secret This message was from the older brother king of Babylon as their father had -shum-ukin. Shamash-shum-ukin life for a long time before, he had ruled as king of Babylon empire. he didn't feel all that powerful. but in practice, most of his governors Ashurbanipal to be their true would often dictate orders to him and of Babylon. growing, and if he did send a message to that it contained a clear proposition. Ashurbanipal, and destroy your ancient and in return I want to rule over The Elamites were all too eager to When the season of war came back around surprise attack. attacked the Assyrian's southern Ashurbanipal was enraged. He gathered his face them. and chased their soldiers back into He defeated them in battle beside the close to their capital of Suza, and one about this victory, which is also that were displayed on his palace walls. By the command of the gods Ashur and their corpses and filled the plane of water weeds. head of Teumann, the king of the land Elam. One remarkable carving relaxing in his gardens with his queen, fanning him, bringing him drinks and food, conquered enemy Teumann hangs in the It's not clear whether Ashurbanipal surprise attack. one year later, Shamash-shum-ukin He rose his armies in rebellion against Babylonia to be independent. This clearly shook King Ashurbanipal. and the anger speaking directly from his my unfaithful brother, for whom I I had installed as king of Babylon, I kingship calls for. I assembled soldiers, his hands. and people to live inside them than the commanded. had done for him, and constantly sought Aloud with his lips he was speaking scheming for murder. had been devoted to Assyria, servants who deceit with them. But privately, Ashurbanipal was clearly He frequently wrote messages to his questions that he wanted to ask the gods, remarkable sense for the uncertainties dark days. organized, march, and fight with the men His fears were soon realized, and the defeat the previous year, joined with his Ashurbanipal responded by marching with His brother Shamash-shum-ukin walls, and the Assyrians settled in for a The siege of Babylon went on for four Conditions within the city of Babylon People began to starve and resort to When the city finally fell, the Assyrian its streets. himself appears to have died in a fire, started. out for so long under horrific soldiers, Those of them who fled before the flaming fire, and found a refuge; the net be eluded, brought them low. Not one sinner slipped through my hands. who uttered vulgarity against Ashur, my I slit their tongues and brought them The rest of those living I destroyed, and pigs, to wolves, to eagles, to birds of the After all his father Esarhaddon's had now turned it back into ruin. With his vengeance on Babylon complete, Elam. mountains, Elam. extermination, designed to utterly remove Carried by wounded rage, Ashurbanipal on its capital city of Suza. next. background. pouring out the mouth of its gate. carrying off all kinds of loot, and on soldiers are steadily and meticulously in the city brick by brick. Ashurbanipal, destruction he ordered. abode of their gods, seat of their I entered its palaces, I opened their and wealth were amassed. I smashed its shining copper horns. Their gods and goddesses I scattered to The tombs of their ancient and recent I exposed to the sun and I carried away devastated the provinces of Elam, and on The Assyrians had once more emerged their army undefeated, and now one of their oldest rivals The empire was at the height of its but in little over 30 years, its end and all that would be left would be a crumbling into the desert sands. It's in the final decade of his reign, Ashurbanipal commissioned the works of defining and lasting legacy of his These are the lion hunt reliefs of the At this time, a breed of lion known as across the Middle East. African counterparts, with a much shorter running down their bellies. endangered animals to be protected, lions Assyria. hills and take away livestock, the people. servant to his master who's away from prevalent this danger could be. Tell my lord your servant Yakim-Addu A short time ago I wrote to my lord as a house in Akkaka. My lord should write me same loft until the arrival of my lord my lord, but letters from my lord were the loft for five days. Although they eat them. lion pine away. lion into a wooden cage and loaded it on The kings of Assyria had hunted lions creatures had taken on a symbolic For the kings of Assyria, the lion came menaced their people, and by triumphing capable of protecting their people from In the early days, these hunts would take wilderness to find wild lions in the empire, lions were rounded up from the to be bred in captivity, king Ashurnasirpal recounts. heart, I captured 15 strong lions from I took away fifty lion cubs. palaces of my land into cages. These lions could be hunted in more in full view of all the city's and it's one of these incredible portray. fighting with spear and bow. a small person or child in a smaller opening the cage door. We can see the shields and spears, with trained dogs We can imagine the thunder of the king's the whistling of his arrows as they find These reliefs show the craft of the demonstrate an art form that had matured the human figures in the embroidered even the fingernails and eyelashes of detail. But while the human figures are emotion on their faces, it's these lions As the arrows and spears strike them, the human sorrow, observer to see in that sorrow a been enveloping the empire in its final it. art to ever be created in the empire of great king. the empire of Assyria would collapse, abandoned to the sands. As is always the case, there were and the latest research we've encountered a number of times That's a rapid and dramatic climate In the south of Mesopotamia, land is arid, broken only by the rivers while in the north there is a great deal that in the south, vast networks of since the earliest Sumerian days. a concern, water the crops. of unusually high rainfall. Kuna Ba caves of northern Iraq have the final years of the reign of King Stalagmites are rock formations that down from the roofs of caves. leaving rings just like the rings of a Studying the chemical composition of the climate changed over the course of and these stalagmites clearly show that climate of the Assyrian age. of the whole 4,000-year span that the During this time, Assyrian fields would its grazing lands rich and capable of this phase came to an end around 725 BC, throne. increasingly dry conditions. mega drought. Even today with all our modern farming crop productivity in northern Iraq is rainfall, period of drought may have acted to There is some evidence that during the north began to dig irrigation canals of south, increasingly unreliable. in historical texts, droughts. problems that Assyrians had learned to Records show that the prices of grain throughout this period, meaning that the people dying in the streets. that the Assyrian state was now under suddenly put at an economic disadvantage Whether this was a major factor in their debate, the most important. military superpower. Their military was hammer that crushed all opposition, maintaining their empire made them This meant their subject peoples were whenever this happened, the Assyrians did crush the rebellions even harder and Eventually, they were left with no other Ashurbanipal did to the lands of Elam, that they simply ceased to exist. the blackened and smoking lands of Elam, centuries, just waiting for their an opportunity that the Assyrians had These were the people of Medea, who were The Medes were an ancient Iranian people in the region of northern and western For centuries now, the powerful Elamites ambitions in check, eradicated, that was no longer the case. rapidly and moved to occupy the lands of gathering its scattered and angry Soon they were a formidable force, and purpose; a burning hatred for the for. that opening would come in the form of Ashurbanipal. For someone whose early life was so his love of literature and writing, reign are a surprising mystery. really how he spent the last decade of It's possible that the king was struck or like his father, he fell to the family One inscription, possibly the last ever does seem to represent a kind of lament, have befallen him. bluster of the Assyrian kings as a true speaking up to us through the ages. I did well unto god and man, Why have sickness and misery befallen me? country and the dissensions in my family. Illness of mind and flesh With cries of woe, I bring my days to an On the day of the city god, the day of I am wretched. me down. and night. I groan oh, that he may see the light. Whatever the cause, had until then kept detailed records of For this period, virtually the only Bible and the writings of Herodotus, who and for whom Mesopotamia was a distant But one thing is clear; began to reign in Assyria. all its provinces Babylon once more declared independence, In the year 616 BC, a series of and they tell the story of the final The great instigators of this downfall had so inadvertently helped. watching in the hills, In a startling surprise attack, the foothills of the Zagros mountains and First, they marched to the great ancient Assyrian nation and the home of its god. happened next. destroyed the city wall. the greater part of the people, from it. This victory must have rocked the This was the first time in centuries had been captured and sacked, and it must enemies; and with enough of a push, perhaps it One man heard this message loud and He was one of the new kings of the for the ancient city he ruled, and his Nabo-polassar was a curious character. but he refers to himself in his mammana', or the son of a nobody. described himself in this way, and it this period of chaos, some of the power were rising from the ranks of the common When he heard about the Medean victory overjoyed. borders, Assyria that he knew must be around the But now, he began to dream of even bigger marched to Ashur as fast as he could to The Babylonian armies arrived too late Assyrian city of Ashur, they formalized The Medean king Cyaraxes Babylonian prince Nabu-kudurri-Usur, This is the situation that had been the and it had finally come to pass. moment of greatest weakness. For the rest of that year, the joint north up the river Euphrates, can still bite. state, was still a formidable force and It wasn't until the year 612 BC, begun, that the Medean army reached the the capital of Nineveh. We can only imagine how that army must looking out over that great city, towering ziggurat, its glorious palaces, The Babylonian chronicles record what ferried across the river and marched and pitched camp against Nineveh. till the month Abu, Then they made a great attack against We can see evidence of the fierce battle left in the archaeological record. gate, the Halzi Gate, have found the lying one on top of another on the also litter this gateway, along with All of them are lying exactly where they in the last ditch defense of the city The Babylonian chronicles recall the In the month of Abu, the city was seized, entire population. Assyria, fled. temple they carried off. counting, they carried away. and heaps of debris. The destruction of Nineveh was recorded understandable delight. Hebrew Bible in a chapter known as the and in these lines we can almost hear soldiers of Medea and Babylon rampaged Chariots rush madly in the streets. They run to and fro like the lightnings. and the valiant men are in scarlet. his preparation and the cypress spears Behold, I am against thee, said the lord of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the and the sword shall devour thy young cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice Woe to the bloody city. It is full of lies. The horsemen charging and the flashing sword and the glittering spear, and a multitude of slain, and a heap of carcasses. they stumble upon their corpses. trees with the first ripe figs. If they be For Nahum, the destruction of Nineveh was a moral such suffering on the lands of others. The lord is a jealous and avenging god. The lord taketh vengeance on his his enemies. concerning thee, for thou art become worthless. wide open unto thine enemies. Oh, king of Syria, mountains and there is none to gather There is no assuaging of thy hurt. All that hear the report of thee, for upon whom By the end of the year 612 BC, the three Ashur, the religious heart, Nineveh, the and Nimrud, the military capital, The Medes made no attempt to occupy them, cities with the same viciousness that cities of Elam. battle, seems to have held out a brave what remained of the Assyrian army These were mostly troops brought back the defense of Nineveh, hopeless. Harran, remembered that this was the place where her prophecy of doom for the empire of In 610 BC, the Medean armies finally marched on Assyrian resistance. faded from history, and the empire of The Babylonian king Nabo-polassar wrote the destruction of his great enemy. As for the Assyrians, because of the hatred of the gods and under its heavy yoke, the weak and powerless one who Marduk, Nabu and Marduk, my lords, I barred their Babylonians As he grew older, Nabo-polassar prince Nabu-kudurri-Usur, Nebuchadnezzer. Babylonian kings which would usher in but the great cities of Assyria would The ruins of Nineveh would have stood blackened rubble, but slowly the wind-blown desert sands Its walls and houses were covered in The skeletons lying in its streets were The great library of the king In a twist of ironic fate, it was the its texts would survive. baked the clay, writing on these tablets was just as archaeologists as the day an Assyrian centuries in the past. celebrated by rampaging through the Sennacherib. and celebrated by defacing some of the They struck particularly at the carved cracking the soft alabaster, and reveling But of all the carvings, those depicting The sorrowful expressions of those their sad eyes over the abandoned halls, as the days and months rolled by. Ash and dust soon filled the rooms. collapsed. halls of the Assyrian kings. their homes among the ruins, soon filled up the corridors. writer Xenophon marched past with his fleeing from the Persian army that this region would not even remember the city. been the Medes the gods had punished them and turned Writing in the 1850s, Layard visited the ruins of Nineveh and of the sight of these desolate ruins. During a short stay in this town, we of the river, which have been generally From the summit of an artificial plain A line of lofty mounds bounded it to the high above the rest. easy; described, and near which the The ruins around it were those which the and which were, the remains of an ancient city. beauty of these empty places, where the marks of human construction. Were the traveler to cross the Euphrates as he had left behind him in Asia Minor his search would be in vain. The graceful tile myrtle, ilex, and oleander, the gradines slope and overlooking the dark blue None of this can be found. mound plain, and the stupendous mass of brickwork by the winter rains. Layard, like Xenophon more than two immensity of what these ruins the vast gulf of time The scene around is Desolation meets A feeling of awe succeeds to wonder. There to hope, or to tell of what has gone by. deeper impression upon me, more earnest reflection than all the Ionia. It's only through the painstaking and scholars have been slowly deciphered and and their voices have once more been breaking the silence of millennia. I want to end the episode with one of It's a mysterious poem language of Akkadian, While these kinds of sorrowful laments Sumerian, they're less well-known in the The poem speaks in the voice of a and who now wanders the bare and level mourning for the place that she once This poem, broken and fragmentary, must have been the feeling of loss by all the peoples of Assyria. like to live in the rich heart of the empire stretched out before you. center of an empire that had caused so peoples of the world their revenge. grand painted halls covered in carved rare trees and flowers, the city full of your memories of your family and loved ones, going up in flames and then covered the desert. Who stood where I stand to cry out, bed? my city has been smashed. has gone away. surely fled. the enemy. lamb, they have been taken away. abandoned her lamb on the bank. all of them with their wings cut off. in? Thank you once again for listening to I'd like to thank my voice actors for Lachlan Lucas, Carson Wishart, Nick Denton, Many thanks to the assyriologist Helsinki for acting as a special Reading the ancient Greek of Xenophon's the Book of Nahum in Hebrew was Rabbi History Podcast. Fall of Civilizations has been working released. It's called Vaccine. story of the global fight against earliest history as a folk demon through Silk Road and in the libraries of up to its eradication by a global effort It's the story of human triumph and raged throughout history around power and what they can teach us today. podcasting platforms, and to YouTube as a I love to hear your thoughts and tell me what you thought. if you'd like updates about the podcast, as images, maps, and reading suggestions, Civ_Pod with underscores separating the If you enjoyed this episode, you might Our Broken Idols. It's a story set during final days of the Assyrian Empire, and It's available from all bookstores today. This podcast can only keep going with on Patreon. costs, and you help to keep the podcast You also let me dedicate more time to editing to get the episodes out to you to them as possible. making this happen. consider heading onto patreon.com/ or just Google Fall P-A-T-R-E-O-N to contribute something and help keep For now, all the best, and thanks for