- What if we could turn this, into this, and even into this? (inspirational music) Large parts of North America, were once covered with wild grassland as far as the eye could see. This natural wonder was described where large iconic wildlife roamed the landscape. Now, one organisation is bringing it back. They are trying to create of uninterrupted grasslands by buying up old cattle farms and restoring them to the So we sent Cameron into to help bring back the and to discover the We are &quot;Planet wild,&quot; - When you think of grass, you probably think of this, bright green and freshly mowed, but a typical suburban lawn is actually far from being natural. Lawns like this, are monocultures of usually and were originally designed to mimic the fancy Because of this image, for a lot of us, grass is kind of just grass, it's boring, but really, grass is and we're heading into the to show you a new reality. This is the wonderful world of grass! (inspirational music) Firstly, grass has a superpower. It's one of the most efficient plants at turning sunlight into food. So that means if you're the very ground you're walking on is literally a never-ending banquet of your favourite food. - It's delicious! - Secondly, real grass Here in the wild grasslands of Montana, there as many as 60 Animals graze on this grass, unevenly, meaning that it exists across the grasslands. Some species live in the long grass, while others thrive in the short grass. The grassland offers and evolutionary niches to fill, and this led to an explosion of life here. Thirdly, what we see here is actually just the tip of the iceberg, and the rest is underground. The grass' root system extends to 15 feet or almost five metres below the surface, and these roots actually of the Earth's terrestrial carbon, and that underground carbon is safe from wildfires, and won't be released Here we can see the huge difference between the natural grassland root system and the roots of a ploughed crop field. Let's keep that in mind at how big this ecosystem really is. I mean, the vastness of this place is kind of blowing my mind. (inspirational music) But there is a bit of a strange feeling, it's almost like a, like a lonely feeling. It feels like something's missing. (dramatic music) - And indeed, something is Only 200 years ago, this place could be described and extended across more Paintings from this into what this actually looked like, a truly wild grassland, where giant herds of bison and elk stretched to the horizon. Indigenous Americans lived alongside them for thousands of years, but the arrival of European They pushed Indigenous and hunted most of the animals to the brink of extinction. (sombre music) When further conquering and carving up the territory, they put up fences to demark ownership and keep livestock in place, disrupting wildlife migration, and destroying the prairie's unique biome. While many of us instinctively understand the value of protecting forests, most have yet to learn is of equally crucial importance. And so with more than 70% of grasslands have become and yet, the least protected - 4% of tempered grasslands just 4%, that's it. We need to preserve these places so that we have something left! This is Danny, a wildlife with our partner, American Prairie, founded more than 20 years ago, and having been described as one of the most ambitious conservation projects in American history, their mission is to restore we know from those paintings since then, the land here was mostly taken over by cattle farming, but because it wasn't ploughed, the soil and its root So it actually has everything it needs to become a canvas for nature again, - On this canvas, you're the creator. Anything that you want, your dreams become real here. - So, let's dream big. (Upbeat rhythmic music) American Prairie is and locking down their vast One range at a time, their goal is to create Connecting these separate creates the background of our painting. Sadly, the painting is the iconic animals of the Great Plains. - Now, what if I told you that out here on the planes behind me, there's the second fastest land mammal after the cheetah, and that its closest Not only that, but this animal has probably the best name in the entire animal kingdom. Meet the pronghorn. (inspirational music) With its incredible speed, it's built to outrun predators that actually don't exist anymore, like the American cheetah and the terrifying short-faced bear. But despite 99.97% of them being wiped out in the 19th century, the pronghorn lives on. They evolved to live in an but their habitat has and when they encounter a fence like this, it doesn't end well. - Every time a pronghorn it's probably losing a little Over time, that will wear off and it actually makes to hypothermia in the wintertime. And so you're not talking but hundreds, thousands of these Over time, you see a breakdown of the entire migratory pathway or the ability for the - And that's why we're removing these old, unnecessary fences, adding to the more than that Danny and his team and with the pronghorn running free, we're bringing them back into our real-life landscape painting. We're in a very special place right now, and if we are lucky, we might get to meet the true but we're in a kind of We can hear them everywhere, all around, but they keep appearing and disappearing, so they're kind of playing with us. This is the legendary and we're in the middle which are complex and often that they dig underground. As little engineers, they create habitats for more Along with their endless this makes them a hugely important keystone species. - So today, there's 10 to 20 million prairie dogs, which sounds like a lot, but historically, they of like 5 billion prairie dogs, that's a 99% reduction. This is really kind of catastrophic for the prairie ecosystem, not just for the prairie dog itself. - [Cameron] As well as prairie dogs are really vulnerable to the Sylvatic Plague, which arrived in America around a hundred years ago through the global trade routes. They have no defence against the disease, which can wipe out a whole town, thousands of prairie dogs within weeks. - Which is why we've We've got insecticide-laced grain bait. The prairie dogs eat the grain bait, it doesn't affect them, but it makes the prairie which are the carriers of the plague. - Protecting them in this their numbers will continue to increase as they return to their natural habitat, but there's still something big missing from this picture. (upbeat rhythmic music) Okay, I'm beyond excited because we're out looking of the grasslands, the National Mammal of the USA and the most important piece in restoring our Vision It's the one and only American bison. (upbeat rhythmic music) There's so many, oh, I can't believe it. (upbeat rhythmic music) Okay, so there's a herd of bison just on the other side of this ridge, we gotta stay quiet so (rhythmic drumbeat music) (inspirational music) It is just remarkable to witness them in their natural habitat of the grassland. Even from this distance, you can hear the grunting, the physicality. There were once as many roaming the great plains of North America, and then in the blink of an eye, there were just 325 individuals left. Just imagine the impact - I mean, you're talking maybe it's most-important species, a keystone species. They're truly builders and architects of the prairie. You can't really have a - American Prairie has undertaken an incredible bison It started almost 20 years ago, with just 16 individuals being Since then, they managed the herd to ensure its genetic diversity, and continually bring new Now, the herd number's almost a thousand. Oh my God, they're rutting, this must be the start The rutting season is the time of year when males compete for often in dramatic battles. Witnessing this rutting behaviour is not only a remarkable spectacle, but it also means that the reintroduction They feel at home enough to behave as a bison behaves. - There's almost nowhere where bison are allowed to be bison, where pronghorn are allowed to run, where prairie dogs are allowed to live. We have a chance to do What could be more motivating than that? (upbeat music) - I could not agree more. That's why we're so to this epic restoration effort and provide $45,000 of community funding to help the team maximise contributing to everything to protecting pronghorns, bison, and, of course, prairie dogs. Now, there is a protected area of 1.5 million acres already, but the plan is to keep building until we get to 3.2 million, which is what you need to support a healthy prairie biome. - And none of this is possible without that key ingredient, the magical wonder plant that is grass, and each of these species lives in concert with the grass, and each is vital to the mission here. So with this ongoing work, we're putting that picture back together and rebuilding the American Serengeti. - As the great Bob Ross one said, &quot;This is your world.&quot; So if you're wondering how consider joining &quot;Planet with the QR code over here, or by clicking the link or by asking your employer to pay for it, because we're now a So if you think your boss would love that or you are the boss yourself, click the second link and help us make this (upbeat rhythmic music) (upbeat rhythmic music continues) The time is now