If you're a fan of avocados- and honestly, you might have heard that they only exist thanks to prehistoric creatures called giant In fact, you may have heard that from us here The story goes something like this... Plants evolved to have fruit in order to attract so that the animals can then poop out the somewhere further away, which helps them spread And unlike other fruit that has, like, dainty avocados have those big, honking seeds. Which means that avocados would have been spread around by big, honking animals that can swallow a whole avocado pit. Specifically, giant ground sloths. These were massive animals that roamed North and South America during and by golly, they would just go to town on and poop out those huge seeds everywhere. Sounds like it checks out, right? Well, it turns out we have no evidence that And while this myth has spread as far and it's worth unpacking how avocados got to in order to get to the tasty morsel of truth [ INTRO] So let's start at the beginning. Where did this idea that giant ground sloths spread the avocado even come from? Well, it all starts in the 1980s with a paper a new hypothesis about Costa Rican plants. It essentially just said "Hey, we should big animals as dispersers of seeds!", which Thing is, that paper only made passing reference and it didn't mention avocados at all. That same year, there was a followup paper that idea of big animals dispersing seeds avocados, and pointed the finger at ground And I kind of can't stress this enough, neither of these papers reported any data At all. I guess it was just really easy to get papers In the 2000s, a popular science book published which spread the word far and wide. And then the idea just stuck. It's been everywhere in the decades since. Tons of platforms have run articles about and like I said - we even did a video about But there's never been a single study or that has found evidence of sloths eating avocados. So, what would we need to find to prove a What's the smoking gun of avocado-eating and how would we find it? Well, it's science, man! There are a few different kinds of evidence to put avocado onto sloths' dinner menus. For one, and this might sound kinda obvious, but sloths and avocados would need to have in the same place at the same time. So we'd want to find fossilized remains archeological record somewhere between 2.58 and 11,700 years ago, which is about when the last ground sloths went extinct. It'd be even better if we could find traces also known as fossilized poop, since that that the sloths actually ate the fruit. But we have neither of those things. Fossil bones and poop of ground sloths including and Lestodons place them firmly in South America Pleistocene, around what's now Argentina, And the first true avocados had only just in Southern Mexico at around that time. Now, there were some other ancient species whose droppings do land closer to where avocados like the slightly smaller but still pretty But even if they lived in the same place and that doesn't mean that sloths ate avocados. Like, I live at the same place and time as but I do not eat poision ivy, and would not, And figuring out exactly what these guys did In a study from 2011, researchers analyzed of carbon and nitrogen in Lestodon bones and that the giant sloths browsed on bushy plants. They may have eaten fruits along with that, though the test can't determine what parts Coprolites left by a smaller sloth species Argentina, found remnants of mostly grasses Other sloth-poop samples found that those and shrubs, like those from the same family And Nothrotheriops dung turned up fragments yucca and agave plants. In all these studies, there wasn't even from laurel plants, the family that avocados And newer methods let us look at the front of the sloth for info on their diets, too. Archeologists analyzed a tooth belonging to Pan-American giant ground sloth, which lived By drilling down through the layers of the and analyzing the relative amounts of carbon researchers reconstructed its diet throughout and found that it had a pretty varied diet what shrubs and plants were available. They couldn't say exactly what kinds of but based on climate data it likely would What's even more mind-blowing is that some probably weren't even limiting themselves Based on carbon and nitrogen analysis of their we know that Darwin's ground sloth probably although we aren't 100% sure whether it slow-moving hunter or merely a scavenger. And that opens up the possibility that other sloths could have eaten meat, too. So while we've got buckets of data on what absolutely none of it points us anywhere near And there's another semi-fatal flaw to the Avocados might not have needed massive animals Avocado pits from around 10,000 years ago are half the size of today's seeds - around compared to 5.5 to 6 centimeters that's So if the avocado pits started out so teeny there has to be a better explanation for these that don't involve our slow moving massive And as it turns out, the most likely culprit a different large mammal living in Mexico See, avocados were an important food source in Mesoamerica, who started growing them in in the Tehuacan-Cuicatlan Valley around And like we said, we have archaeological evidence that shows the pits have gotten bigger over Which indicates that the Mesoamericans might selected avocado fruit with bigger pits. Maybe big pits meant bigger fruits, or that a bigger seed would help the tree A big seed full of starches and fats could nourish the plant while it germinates, making it more likely that a planted seed But the reason behind these ginormous pits just as much to do with mythology as it does See, some ancient Mayans believed people were and so they'd surround their homes with The avocado fruits became associated with and the strength of the avocado was thought to transfer to the person eating it. So growing bigger avocados meant more strength, Still, it's a little tricky to pin down and when these pits got bigger. Mostly because the size of wild avocados from varied hugely depending on the environmental This increase in pit sizes makes some paleo-archeologists ancient Mesoamericans were domesticating fruit or that their cultivated trees still had gene with their wild-growing cousins. Genetic studies of around 30 different avocado that avocados were domesticated three different in at least three different places across Specifically the high- and low-lands of central Mexico, Guatemala and the West Indies. What's more, Mesoamerican cultivation techniques growing lots of crops all together, as well existing forests themselves, a technique we So there was likely a mix of different avocados from when those different avocados were bred Which is really different from what we'd think of when we think of domestication, which is a kind of bottleneck where plants The variation in pit size we see might just practices of the time and all the gene-flow So the story of how the beloved avocado reached all over the world probably has nothing to Which is why the next time you ask for extra there's no need to thank any extinct animal- just thank the Mesoamericans who helped perfect Here at SciShow, we take accuracy really seriously. Our last video on this subject relied on the as we described, were a little flimsy for Because of this, we've unlisted that video. As always, we're here to spread ideas supported by evidence and science, not myths. But we are never, of course, above spreading some avocados on our toast. We hope you liked this tale of avocado fact I also want to give a shout out to our patrons for supporting the work we do to bring you science stories that we can find. We could not do this without you. And our patrons get more than a warm fuzzy Though, I do hope they get that- They also get access to tons of cool perks, like our monthly blooper reel, exclusive podcast, and even a private Discord server. So if any of that sounds like something you'd head on over to Patreon.com/scishow to learn Thanks for watching! [ OUTRO]