Transcriber: Joseph Geni Wow, what an honor. I always wondered So eight years ago, I got I had a friend tell me, &quot;Don't worry about how much It's all about just building your resume.&quot; And I'd just come back and I'd joined this Fortune 500 company. I thought, &quot;This is fantastic. I'm going to have I had all these ideas. I noticed at about 10am every morning to want to slam my head I don't know if anyone's ever felt that. And I noticed pretty soon after that had already automated my job role. And this is right about when I got Well, as I'm trying to figure out what two-story window I'm going I read some altogether different advice &quot;Taking jobs to build up your resume (Laughter) And I heard that, Within two weeks, I was out of there, to find something that I could screw up. That's how tough it was. I wanted to have some type of impact. And I found pretty quickly it turns out that over 80 percent don't enjoy their work. I'm guessing this room is different, but that's the average So I wanted to find out, the people who do the passionate, that wake up inspired every day, and then these people, who lead these lives of quiet desperation. So I started to interview all these people and I read books and did case studies, 300 books altogether totally just self-immersion, I wanted to find the work what that was for me. But as I was doing this, &quot;You're into this career thing. I don't like my job. I'd say, &quot;Sure.&quot; because at this point, Of the people I'd sit down with for lunch, within two months. I was proud of this, and it wasn't It was that I would ask It was, &quot;Why are you doing And so often their answer would be, &quot;Well, because somebody And I realized that so many are climbing their way up this ladder and it ends up being leaned up or no wall at all. The more time I spent around I thought, what if we could a place where people and that it was OK to take the road less traveled, and inspire people to change? And that later became which I'll explain in a little bit. But as I've made these discoveries, of really three simple things that all these different passionate whether you're a Steve Jobs the person that has But you're doing work I want to share those three with you, for the rest of today The first part of this three-step is becoming a self-expert because if you don't know you're never going to find it. And the thing is that no one There's no major in university I don't know how that's not but don't even get me started on that. I mean, you spend more time than you do you picking your major But the point is, and we need a framework, And so the first step of our compass is What are the things that we wake up whether we're paid or we're not paid, And the Strengths Finder 2.0 I highly recommend it for sorting out And next, what's our framework Do we care about the people, or is it achievement, success, We have to figure out what it is so we know what our soul is made of, so that we don't go selling it And then the next step is our experiences. All of us have these experiences. about what we love, what we hate, what we're good at, And if we don't spend time and assimilating that learning and applying it to the rest of our lives, Every day, every week, I spend some time what went wrong, what can I apply more to my life. And even more so than that, who inspire you, who are doing &quot;Oh God, what Jeff is doing, Why are you saying that? Write down what it is about them It's not going to be but whatever it is, take note on that, so over time we'll have that we can use to apply to our life and make a better impact. Because when we start we can then define and without these different parts We end up in the situation ... that everybody seems to be living It's kind of like in Wall Street 2, the peon employee asks &quot;What's your number? where if they make this money, He says, &quot;Oh, it's simple. More.&quot; And he just smiles. And it's the sad state that haven't spent time who keep reaching for something but we're doing it because everyone But once we have this framework together, we can start to identify You know, before this, a passion or maybe in your possible line of work, because you don't have But once you do, you can see something my values, who I am as a person, so I'm going to grab ahold of this, and I'm going to pursue it And Live Your Legend wouldn't exist if I didn't have &quot;Wow, this is something I want to pursue If we don't know what we're looking for, but once we have then we can move on to what's next... And that's not me up there... Doing the impossible There's two reasons One is they tell themselves or people around them Either way, we start to believe it. Either we give up, The things is, everything was impossible Every invention, people thought were crazy at first. Roger Bannister and the four-minute mile, to break the four-minute mile until Roger Bannister stood up and did it. And then what happened? Two months later, The things that we have in our head are often just milestones if we can push those limits a bit. And I think this starts with probably more than anything, If you don't think you can run a mile, you show yourself or a marathon, or lose five pounds, you realize that confidence compounds and can be transferred And I've actually gotten into the habit We have this little group. and recently, I found myself I'm terrified of deep, dark, blue water. I don't know if anyone's ever had ever since they watched when I was a kid. But anything above here, if it's murky, I swear there's something in there. Even if it's Lake Tahoe, ridiculous, but it's there. Anyway, three years ago right down here in the San Francisco Bay. It's a rainy, stormy, windy day, and I'm sitting there wearing a wetsuit, in pure terror thinking I'm going to try to swim And my guess is some people in this room I'm sitting there, and my buddy Jonathan, he comes up to me And he says, &quot;Scott, hey man, You're wearing a wetsuit. And If you can't make it, Plus, if there's a shark attack, over the 80 people in the water?&quot; He's like, &quot;But really, And he dives in, swims off. OK. Turns out, the pep talk totally worked, and I think it was because (Laughter) And of the 80 people swimming that day, 65 of them were between Think how you would have approached if at nine years old you found out in 56-degree water What would you have said yes to? What would you have not given up on? As I'm finishing this swim, and I'm getting out of the water and of course half the kids so they're cheering me on And I got total Popsicle head, and I'm trying to just thaw my face out, And I see this one kid, And he's just flailing like this. And he's barely able to sip some air And I notice other parents and I swear they were thinking this is why you don't let nine-year-olds This was not fatigue. All of a sudden, two parents and they put him on their shoulders, totally limp. And then all of a sudden and they plop him down in his wheelchair. And he puts his fists up in the most I can still feel the warmth when he made this accomplishment. I had seen him earlier that day I just had no idea he was going to swim. I mean, where is he How many people told him that he would die if he tried that? You prove people wrong, that you can make of what you believe is possible. You don't have to be just your own impossibilities, and it starts with little bitty steps. And the best way to do this is to surround yourself The fastest things to do things is to surround yourself There's this quote &quot;You are the average of the five people And there is no bigger lifehack from getting where you are today than the people you choose They change everything, In 1898, Norman Triplett did this study and he would measure their times and also individually. And he found that every time the cyclists And it's been repeated and it proves the same thing over again, that the people around you matter, But it's on you to control it, With 80 percent of people that means most people around us, are encouraging complacency and keeping us so we have to manage those surroundings. I found myself in this situation... Personal example, a couple years ago. Has anyone ever had a hobby or a passion unbelievable amount of time, and they but no one's paying attention OK, I was there for four years trying to help people do work that they genuinely and I was doing all I could, and there were only and they're all right there: Thank you guys for the support. And this is how badly I wanted it, and I was about to shut it down, and right about then, I moved to San Francisco and started who had these crazy of businesses and websites and blogs that surrounded their passions And one of my friends, and he supports his whole family with a blog that he writes They just came back from a month This blew my mind. And I got unbelievably inspired and instead of shutting it down, And I did everything I could every waking hour possible hanging out and having beers And after four years of zero growth, within six months the community at Live Your Legend In another 12 months, And today over 30,000 people use our career and connection tools And those people have made up who inspired that possibility for Live Your Legend so many years back. The people change everything, You know, you ask what was going on. Well, for four years, and I didn't even know it existed, that you could have movements like this. And then I'm over here in San Francisco, It became normal, so my thinking went to how could I possibly not. And right then, when that happens, it ripples across your whole world. And without even trying, You don't need to change your goals. That's it, and that's why I love why I go to every TED event I can, and watch them on my iPad Because this is the group of people We have a whole day To sum things up, they all have one thing in common They are 100 percent in our control. No one can tell you No one can tell you and learn your own impossible No one can tell you you can't or get away from the people You can't control a recession. You can't control getting fired Most things are totally out of our hands. These three things are totally on us. And they can change our whole world And the thing is, it's starting to happen I just read in Forbes, the US Government in a month where more people than had been laid off. They thought this was an anomaly, In a time where people claim people are giving a middle finger the things that people in exchange for things that matter to them And the thing is, people that really the only thing that limits That's not a cliche anymore. I don't care what it is that you're into, If you're into knitting, you can find and you can learn from them. It's wild. And that's what this whole day is about, and we profile these people because when ordinary people and we can be around that, it becomes normal. And this isn't about being Gandhi It's just about doing something and makes an impact Speaking of Gandhi, as I've heard the term, and he was called to a greater cause, he couldn't not do. And he has this quote &quot;First they ignore you, then they fight you, then you win.&quot; Everything was impossible You can either hang around the people and tell you you're stupid for trying, or surround yourself with the people the people who are in this room. Because I see it as our responsibility that what's seen as impossible And that's already starting to happen. First, do the things that inspire us, so we can inspire other people But we can't find that unless we know what we're looking for. We have to do our work on ourselves, be intentional about that, Because I imagine a world where 80 percent What would that look like? What would the innovation be like? Things would start to change. And as we finish up, and I think it's the only And it's what is the work Discover that, live it, not just for you, because that is what starts What is the work you can't not do? Thank you guys. (Applause)