In today's chess video, we are going to look ideas in the Danish gambit. We start with the king's pawn opening - e4, The most common reply from black is to take Then c3, we sacrifice another pawn. Black takes. And then we go for bishop c4. C takes b2 and bishop takes on b2. This is the Danish Gambit accepted line. As you can see, we gave up 2 pawns in return Both our bishops are eyeing down the Kingside. This bishop is attacking this weak f7 square making it difficult for this black bishop Although the Danish Gambit is not that popular to play against beginner or even intermediate formats since many opponents are not quite If you are someone who likes to attack right a slight material advantage, then you should So in this video, we'll discuss, first some for white, then we'll look at some common tactics in your games, and finally we'll see tries this opening against you. As white, you need to keep in mind a few things. First one is that since you are already 2 pieces. Second, you should be super aggressive and You should try not to give your opponent any this black king right away. Third, since this is going to be an open game, exchange them. Another thing is that in such an opening, out your queen early to attack your opponent fine. Specifically in this type of game, you will like this and expose the black king so always Also, sooner rather than later, you will see cases should be to push this pawn forward try to trap it. In such a game, generally this d file is very you might find some good opportunities to queen so keep an eye on that as well. Alright, now let's look at how you can use variations. In this position, if black goes for d6, then trying to pin this knight, then it's a big Can you see why? We can go for the bishop sacrifice that I Bishop takes with check. King takes and now you have this smart little Black can't take with this pawn because then Therefore, he is forced to move his king and You Liked this Move, right? Then you should hit the thumbs up button below Okay, moving on, let's look at another popular Knight c6, knight f3, knight f6, all normal Then we push e5, as we discussed earlier. Knight e4 saving the knight. Again, the same idea, bishop f7 check. Black takes. And this time, we have queen d5 check. And after the king moves, we simply gobble As you can see, the material is almost equal, also lost his right to castle so this should Going back, another famous line goes as follows. Queen g5, threatening to take this pawn. Then knight f3 enticing black to go ahead. If he falls for this and takes this pawn, Let me show you how. After queen takes, we have rook g1 attacking He has to play queen h3. Now we use the same idea, bishop takes f7 He cannot take the bishop because after knight Therefore, in this position, he will have Then we have this brilliant rook g7 move. And if he takes the rook, then we take his rook. Going back, if he does not take the rook, attacked twice by our rook and bishop. After knight e7, we can throw another double his rook or queen. Okay, now let's go back and look at another Here, we have bishop b4 check, we block with Then knight f6 attacking the pawn. Pawn to e5 as usual. Knight e4, attacking this knight. And again, we go for bishop f7 check. If king takes bishop, then queen b3 check, a solid positional advantage. Going back, in this position, if king does to take. Followed by knight takes, King takes bishop bishop. Ultimately, the material is almost equal, Okay, now let's look at another variation, This is called the Schlechter Defense. We take the pawn and now if black is not careful the bishop. Then bishop f7 check. He can't take the bishop because his queen But then we can simply play bishop a3 check his queen. Okay, now you might be wondering how do you I mean how can you stop white from inflicting Well, the best way to counter this opening know the correct way to play it. After d5 and bishop takes d5, your best move Now this bishop f7 move doesn't work anymore can play bishop b4 check launching a discovered Ultimately, white loses his queen. And after all this, if you look at the position, As black, you also have the option to simply After the initial moves, on move 3, instead the Gambit and play d5, which is the Capablanca The material remains equal, but you prevent Okay, so here's a Chess puzzle for you all. It is White's turn and you need to find the Do share your answers in the comments section If you liked this, then you should definitely the Sicilian Defense. And Don't forget to Subscribe to our channel Thanks for watching and see you in the next