All I wanted to do I did not expect to have about how much the world Normally this is the sort of talk at some conference about but, um, I'm in and I also have this vague suspicion might not be relevant I was lucky enough to live through For anyone younger than you won't remember just how fast and how incredible And I was on the I was living it, I was one of the people who Useful new technologies generally You have a slow takeoff as the and the major pain points and then you have this as people find it useful and the technology gets better and loads of competitors and people find more and more real-world, practical And there's this massive race that people keep making And then you reach the limit of what's and the rate of progress Basically, there's a reason camp outside Apple Stores I remember Napster from back in 1999. And in hindsight, I think Napster of just how many industries or completely destroyed Not just the music industry, but travel agents, video rental stores, big-box stores, the postal service, Napster wasn't the first sign, that millions of non-technical The first one to get big mass-media It was the first big the first warning shot, the first rumble of thunder the storm was approaching, I don't think many people realised And even if they did, the world that would follow. the world that I've got the world of the web, of This video you're watching now and a very English-speaking one. This is a record of a point And I might be wrong about this, I don't know where technology's But: I think that world, is about to change radically. I think we're on a new sigmoid curve, and I have no idea how far along And I don't know if I want but I think I'll have to. And all I was trying to do This is a really specific problem, and I have to explain it for so bear with me. Almost every email system You have one copy of an email, you file it in a folder like a piece of paper because that's the mid-20th-century that the inventors went with. But. In 2004, which threw all that out Email is just in one big pile, and you add labels I hate labels, because that's what I started out with, I didn't want to change for no reason. But everything else about Gmail than any of the alternatives that I moved over to it And I decided, fine, I will I'll change my workflow Each thread gets one label. That's like putting Which meant that when I backed up never trust having only particularly if that copy's but when I did that, a regular old-school like Microsoft Outlook You can use programs they talk to each other. If they didn't, stuff like the wouldn't work, But those old-school systems so Gmail just lies and Great! That means my can talk to Gmail, and request one "folder" at a time, and then I know it's They're even stored in It took fifteen years that wasn't working properly. I was doing a routine backup last month, and I noticed that a thread was missing several And that made me suspicious, the kind of discomfort that you get but you don't know what it is yet. So I looked a little bit further, and I realised loads of messages More than a hundred thousand They were still there in Gmail, It's just they hadn't been backed up. And that's because, it turns out, in Gmail, labels only attach to and not the full thread. That is invisible to most people. It's barely mentioned And it's a really subtle, If you send an email, get a reply, and then that reply doesn't get the label. And as you go back and forth, none of the other messages there unless you explicitly Which means more than 100,000 weren't in my backup. Is this a really specific, nerdy problem Yes. Absolutely. I'm one of the very that it's going to affect. Loads of people don't sort or label and most don't back them up. But I needed to fix this, and I did not want to But how on earth do I fix without painstakingly clicking I grew up fixing things with code, so obviously, Google has a service It means that anyone to easily change and in Gmail, Calendar, Docs, YouTube, It's a brilliant service, And it will inevitably, one day, because that's just what Google does. But Apps Script meant I could just spend an hour or so And it's been a while First thing I do when I'm coding is I write out what it's meant to do Just the flow of logic, So I wrote it, hang on, isn't there an AI thing Yes, this is a video but I promise I'm not going Telling someone about your is like telling someone They don't care, it just sounds But I'd seen posts from people how good ChatGPT is and, I looked at it It seemed surprisingly good. But it is just a text transformer. All it does is guess what the I knew that we'd been seeing I made a video two years ago about "the sentences computers can't and at the end of that video, I made a joke about how computers just as they have been I was wrong. Turns out that's pretty much solved now. But ChatGPT is still just a thing what the next word is going to be. It produces generic, milquetoast output that's confidently wrong It's going to help spammers a little bit of real-world use. But I thought, okay, tell it to translate to this see what it does. ...and it wrote the code for me. In a few seconds. And I felt this pit-of-the-stomach, and at that moment, but I figured it out later. It's just predicting The code it gave back was my first attempt would've So I asked it in plain English to fix a couple of the and it did, and that version Not quite, though. I tried to work out and then I realised, And it told me, in English, And it had made the same mistake Because, turns out, Google Apps Script itself treats labels Google wrote their own So I told ChatGPT about the error. It bodged its way around Google's to build the thing I was And after all the I didn't actually But it was so much easier. I never had to to find the exact specific Also, my coding skills are That's one of the reasons I don't The last time I learned a new thing My old skills were good enough. I'm not sure if ChatGPT is a but it felt about equal. It felt like watching with me occasionally 'um, I think you might have And sometimes, I was the one At one point, I realised I'd written the wrong thing in ChatGPT had just been following I know it's just a text model that but it didn't feel like it. that pit-of-the-stomach was because my brain or 'that's an alien intelligence'. Or because I was what if my brain is just that's trying to predict I'm sure I remember some about how your brain's and "surprise" is just a fancy word But then the next day I gave one that required not just but actually a bit of and it just confidently, completely And that meant that I wasn't worried Not yet, anyway. Sure, no-one's asked for that the one about the labels and messages. ChatGPT wasn't just copying there was arguably creativity involved. But, if I'm honest, a lot of the was just copying and pasting At some point, every modern programmer and "adapted" something It's basically part of I'm deliberately avoiding creativity, AI art, and copyright, I don't know how and I don't know how If I hired a human to create a painting or song that would be weird... As long as they're not pretending as long as the smaller artist is not The style of most of my videos is just a slightly faster version of That's what this intelligence was trained on. And this video is basically in the style It's just I tend to go to the beach If someone set up an AI to or even YouTube educational videos I think I'd be fine with that? I don't think I'd have a problem of a massive pool But if someone started ripping off Yeah, I can see why artists The British legal term for it I've said before: please don't train models Or, frankly, on anyone specific But okay, I wasn't worried and I wasn't worried that to some human-equivalent So why did I still have Artificial intelligence, everything that we're seems to be on that And I don't know what point If we're already most of the Programmers and artists but they can't create something It's not going to It's gonna make people's the same way that loads like Photoshop, If we're at the middle of we're gonna get some really that still need some Maybe Siri and the Google Assistant are going to become the things But that feeling of dread came and the new AI art systems, might be to my world what Napster The herald, the first big warning that this new technology, the thing that was starting to actually Where huge numbers of people, were actively using it. And it didn't matter that Napster because by then there was Morpheus And then there was Spotify. The old business model, that idea had been struck a mortal blow If you hear echoes of the Napster case so do I. I was getting a haircut and unprompted, the barber started and how he'd actually used it that he couldn't be bothered He wasn't a particularly he wasn't a nerd like me, the same way that someone who wanted would figure out Napster. It's not about ChatGPT, It's about what it represents. Because if we're still at the if we're at the Napster point, then everything is about to change, just as fast and just as strangely perhaps beyond all recognition... and this time I'm I'm like the music executive, It feels, to me, like something for the now-comfortable world and that I've settled down in. That's where the dread came from. The worry that suddenly No-one does. I've been complaining for years nothing has really changed and I think that maybe, I should have been careful At some point, I'll look back I will easily be able to see We all will. Part of me hopes that that in a few years I'll The email thing is it won't be email It might be something else, Maybe something minor, or maybe the whole But right now, that feeling, it turns out that was the worry that after years of being my world is about to change... I will still want my email ...and now, an AI-generated NordVPN ad! Today I want to talk about one for staying connected or just browsing the internet. It's called NordVPN and it's With NordVPN, I can access content no matter where I am. Whether I'm in a country with or I want to access a web site that blocks people or just want to catch up on NordVPN has got me covered. Some other amazing include the ability to connect and 24/7 customer support. Whether I'm using my NordVPN makes it easy to So, if you're looking for a VPN from around the world and give NordVPN a try. Trust me, you won't regret it! To get the best deal go to nordvpn.com/tomscott or I am going to be out of a job soon.