Hey, what's going on? My name is Robert, This video is all about the 4L60E 1-2 Shift Valve The 1-2 Shift Solenoid is sometimes referred to were implemented and Shift Solenoid A was renamed to be missing a gear, you may be dealing with a 1-2 Shift Solenoid. But, before we can dive a solid understanding of the basics. In this including... The oil path from the oil pan over to be building a user-friendly oil schematic. Making And last, but certainly not least, you'll gain and why it works the way that it does. It's my the end of this short video that you will have and the 1-2 Shift Solenoid operate. Gaining this rebuilding decisions, and it'll help you diagnose If you're as excited about this and take the time to hit that like button. than you know. Thank you for that. Without As you already know, this video is all Shift Solenoid. In order for this it must receive oil to this portion of the valve though the oil has appeared out of nowhere. And we're going to be covering how the oil flows from The 4L60E oil pump is indirectly driven by pump rotates at engine speed. While the pump pushes fluid out. Oil residing in the oil pan is At this point, the oil goes from a low pressure More on that, a little bit later. The small passageway here, and goes through a and comes into contact with the Pressure Regulator for regulating line pressure. The oil then makes The oil exits the pump here and enters the this passageway. The oil then jumps up through valve-body. Makes its way across the valve down through the separator plate and down into the the oil jumps up through the separator plate and oil immediately comes into contact with the AFL AFL Valve, you can find a shortcut to that video the oil comes into immediate contact with the AFL and the oil changes color because the oil as opposed to Line Pressure. That AFL fluid flows through the separator plate and steps down into where it jumps through the separator plate and jog to the right. Goes through the separator plate travels a very short distance, yet again jumping through a screen that's built right into the through this portion of the valve body, where the and back down into the transmission case. The oil the oil is jumping through the separator plate. separator plate. This time is different though the AFL oil which is yellow in color on paper, Signal oil, which is blue in color. After the oil our destination. The oil comes in contact with As you saw, the oil takes a lot of like from the oil pan all the way over to a much easier way to look at this. Reading and understanding oil flow as they tend to be very complex. Typically, all at once. So with that said, let's build just on the oil circuit that we're working drawn through the oil filter and sucked into the At this point in time the oil changes from a known as Line Pressure. We'll circle back to line through this passageway and goes around this Regulator Valve. The PR Valve is responsible for way down to the bottom of the pump and exits the AFL Valve. So, line pressure, line pressure is within the 4L60E. That oil pressure ranges The AFL Valve takes that high line pressure and it Pressure. AFL pressure ranges anywhere from 55 the AFL valve and makes its way over to the and then makes its way over to an orifice. An And this small hole happens to live in the that separator plate as AFL fluid. However, once out the other side as Signal oil pressure, and Signal oil pressure ranges anywhere from zero psi oil pressure makes its way from the orifice over Switching gears real quick. not a lot of you are subscribed. So, if you're be sure to subscribe. And don't forget so you don't miss out on any future videos. way into this portion of the valve-body, let's Now that we've discovered how oil makes its let's dive into how this valve-train actually And in doing so, the oil comes into contact with The solenoid has two (2) operating states. It solenoid in the OFF position. Oil enters this Past the valve within the shift solenoid. here. And that oil goes back to the oil pan. In both the 1-2 shift solenoid and the 1-2 shift off through the 1-2 shift solenoid, we don't build with the solenoid turned ON, this closes the valve oil pressure. Oil pressure starts building at the pressure builds up enough, the oil pressure When the solenoid is turned OFF, the internal pressure to bleed off. As that oil pressure bleeds pushes the valve back to this position. So, in traps oil, which builds oil pressure and Or that shift solenoid bleeds off oil pressure, and then the spring wins and pushes the shift 4L60E, in first gear this shift solenoid is that means that the internal valve within causes a buildup of oil pressure that At this point in time, we haven't talked let's introduce Line Pressure. There's actually This pressure is there to do a number of things. valve and into this portion of the valve-body. in a way that it's preventing line pressure from when we shift to second gear, the computer And, as we know, that bleeds off the oil pressure shift valve is stroked to this position. With the ability to enter this portion of the valve-body. its way over to the 2-4 servo, which strokes the second gear. Now if the 4L60E was in second gear, the PCM (Powertrain Control Module aka which would build oil pressure at this end of And in this case, we're cutting off oil from at the same time, that portion of the the oil that's feeding the 2-4 servo, that that circuit goes dead, which releases On the surface, you've learned how the 1-2 Shift in my mind, it goes a lot deeper than that. this video, puts you one step closer to fully as a whole. And when you're armed with that informed rebuilding decisions, and it'll help Do you have questions about this specific video, in the comment section, down below. I'm happy to you, please consider helping me grow this in the video description down below. Thank you, so