I want to share with you today about breaking &quot;breaking&quot; on &quot;serious&quot; generational curses and they made light of things that are passed on to pick up on. The problem though is taking the generational curses is very serious. There is no Now I understand that this is watched, people some of you come from backgrounds where the idea sentence do not go together. And so I do want to break certain strongholds, as well as tonight people and He's going to bring healing to people does not exist in the Bible. Nor does the word one mention of pastors as an office but there is others. But not the word pastor. But the concept fundamental belief of us as Christians in our something can go from one generation to another actually one of the fundamental beliefs of what Is what we believe as this thing that somebody bad and because of that all of his descendants is any group in the world that embraces this crazy Christians. That's why we're born with sinful you who maybe do not believe in that, think about doctor, you know I have this problem. Your doctor, deliverance, will ask you, does this run in your stuff. I'm a Christian, I speak in tongues. does cancer, does this run in the family? on the spiritual realm then unfortunately some sand, it doesn't cause the curses to disappear. we can be born again and therefore legally these but something being legal and something being God gave the promised land to Israel in Abraham hundreds of years later. God promises things, occupy them, appropriate them. All of our healing healing doesn't instantly manifest. Israel didn't possessed the land they fought for. In fact, some promise that they were given. They only possessed has given you the legal verdict of heaven that that doesn't always automatically translate us is now faith to fight. It's when Goliath fell back home. The defeat of Satan on the cross does Satan on the cross ends the bondage and starts saved the battles will be over. My friend, no. You times you were being enslaved. You were not being privilege of the free people. Bondage is the price me, it ends with me. God wants to bring an end to a particular behavior, and a disease or for a naysayer that only sees the negative. I do believe generational blessings. And I know a lot of come up and they, I don't believe in generational blessings? Yes. I don't believe Christians can give place to demons? Yes. You just contradicted don't believe and the Scripture doesn't teach us or because our dad was a pastor or a leader. his name was Phillip. He became a Christian, and years in prison but after 5 years they released was walking in the fields they forced him to get the carriage they started to physically abuse him. he was jumping off his foot got stuck in between Soviets, these army guys, instead of stopping the for 40 minutes, his body dangling as they were other one beating my great-grandfather. He died on both sides served Jesus. One of the reasons it happened with Moses. The Bible doesn't start mother. All of us ignore and forget, Moses didn't is a generational blessing. See what you do You may weep in secret, sow in secret. Nobody to delete his name but see you can't delete because four generations later, in another who is going to preach the Gospel. Communism is the message of Jesus is still spreading. to reverse generational curses Amen. I'm going to share with you a few points Typically it's a Sunday service, three points it's Friday night. We don't party anymore and going to sit here for just a little bit, and Word of God and then we're going to pray. I want taking notes, write this down. Whatever is cursed To understand generational curses we must In the Bible, the Bible says Jesus cursed blessed the five loaves and two fish and the ways you can spot a curse in somebody's Some kind of an invisible force is working it withers. And the way you spot a is if they touch something little, it helps God wants to release generational blessing, multiply. Where you may not have a lot that's why Jacob did not ask for money. He I have the stuff, I have children but I need in my life. I need God's supernatural power We must understand the curses, first mention of or a wizard. It came from God. God cursed the son. God said, I will curse anyone who curses it's not good for you to go right now and attack not a Christian, just think economically, I will curse. Meaning your big stuff, your big by this Marxist mentality that is in the United we see that in the Bible. Balaam tried to curse once they come into someone's life, there are gives us Deuteronomy 28. And I'm not going to go seven main things that will happen when somebody is they will have a chronic sickness that will they will have phobias or fears. Number three is premature deaths in the family. Number five being accident prone and number seven, loneliness, anyone can experience any of these in their this is not just a normal thing is number one, if two, when applying discipline, medical help and your broccoli, you do your stuff, you exercise steps backwards. I'm not saying you're cursed. I'm with something bigger that is physical and you don't want to fight spiritual issues with physical spider web, you got to start looking for a spider. to find where there is a broken pipe. Okay, you before. You cleaned the floor the day before. Your grandma's been cleaning the floor. Somebody needs This thing keeps reappearing. Let's look for ignoring the need for discipline, discipleship, that are right in their place. But if you are we're dealing with something that's bigger than Generational curses. The second thing I want us God in one generation usually gets transferred lied out of fear. Jacob lied out of fear. all lied about their wives. Jacob lied about his You see a lot of lying going on. These were area of their life they walked in freedom and in a hard time reconciling that, think of Lazarus and fully bound. You can be alive and restricted. I speak in tongues but I don't know why I can't Lazarus, loose him. Jesus doesn't give us a in a grave clothes. Jesus is a good Jesus. He wants you to be free. No nightmares at night. failures and setbacks from the devil, where you He wants you to be loosed and free. What we is constantly usually used for explanation That tells us there's a precedent of someone on really getting on God's nerves by violating God's just if you do occult. He says, if you hate Me, you will know that it doesn't, curses don't stop somebody stops them, and you are that somebody until it ran into you because you're not a hater love God with all your heart, and all your soul those iniquities are no longer legal or welcome I remember when me and my wife, we bought this a really good deal on it because it was a really an attorney. And he didn't, the renters he had, had weeds as high as like my waist. And I remember before us left all of that to the next owner. Now how bad this previous owner is because he passed is I started to first mow the lawn, pull the year or two years, that lawn was unrecognizable. the best they could, your grandparents, they did lawn that has weeds, no seeds and bunch of snakes. we're not pointing fingers. We're rolling up planting seeds. We're not blaming, we're battling. the next generation, why? Because if the previous then next generation will have inheritance from house to, the rental property, never had to deal little bit hard. That's why some of you, when a little bit harder than maybe somebody else. And is because you're dealing with generational have to deal with weeds first and this might be are setting a foundation for the next generation Whatever one generation does not repent, the next generation. Now it's not an absolute &quot;will&quot; I just said, it triggered you. Just put every situation. But generally, as a general rule. all were bad. And have you ever read book &quot;And he did evil in the sight of the and in his sin by which he made Israel to sin.&quot; Israel had many dynasties, everyone kept going and everyone after him like dominoes, boom, boom, the kingdom of Judah. The kingdom of Judah had one guy was good, First Kings 19 would say this, as his father did.&quot; There is a connection. That's everything. Never forget to give credit to the reasons I introduced myself now by mentioning my laws God set in the universe. He, my uncle worked reaping. That's why if you're not seeing, somebody right now. It's going to be your children, it's if things come too easy for you, you're like this somebody, somebody paid a price, somebody's and you're standing today on their shoulder. Amen. I read this study according to the book to study Jonathan Edwards and then Jonathan And then at the same time as he was studying that existed at the time. The other family 1,200 descendants and this guy tracked down his very poor. 300 of them died in infancy from lack their lives in prostitution and in a very 60 were habitual thieves who spend an average were convicted more or less often of a crime. he studies the family tree of Jonathan Edwards. 11 children. One was U.S Vice President were Governors, three were Mayors, 13 were college 80 held public office, 100 were lawyers, 100 One was a crooked tree. The other one seemed family tree that was crooked, you that. And you will be that tipping point The next thing I want you to write down, number It usually comes on the house of a person. Lord is on him who does witchcraft. That's not can't hear you. The house of the wicked. The curse but He blesses, I can't hear you. He blesses the understand is that we are so individualistic and but Bible deals a lot of times with homes more it was Noah's family was in the ark. not for an individual. Rahab brought her dad, her just herself. Joshua said, me and my house will with his household, Cornelius believed with his jailer believed with his household, ruler of Paul baptized the household of Stephanus. I might not be today, it might not even be tomorrow blesses the home of the just. Any just people of my family members will go to heaven with me. and I'm telling every demon and every devil and there is a lamb for that family. There is a prayer harder they sin, the greater the preachers there not just individuals. The curses operate the same wicked. Which tells me you better be in the right you're feeling there's a curse in your life, make of the just, Jesus is the just, Jesus is the that God wants to do and break curses in our life and connect us to the destiny of His home. I'm I will dwell in the house of the Lord. That's of Jesse but the house of Jesus. That's why Lord and I will dwell in God's house all the palm trees are planted in the house of the Lord. I am the church. You're not the church, we are an assembly. Have you ever seen an assembly where I am the assembly. Those people usually I am the church. That's like a Supreme Justice you're not, we are the Supreme Court, if you break generational curses but you you're in between places. You left the history the curse is on the house of the wicked and God home. You got to be in somebody's home. If you home, zoom is not a home. I understand it worked plant yourself in the local church, find a home I break the curse. If you really want to walk in church. I remember a young man that we led to the us, didn't speak any English. We right away got was doing but we're like, you'll understand later. broken family. Dad, mom, divorced Step, step, brothers and no guilt and condemnation to those comes, gets saved in our church and then he gets you to listen very carefully. I know that you're you is you have generations, you don't know if you stay in the church, the time will come, you break them. Moves out to a different state hey he wants to leave me. I call him and I said, generational curses? Well the devil came knocking back to our city. We work with him, I lead him but these renouncing prayers are not going to a home of a just. You don't have a just home right You barely just started. You need to be planted remember 6 months later, he's doing good, he's learning. He's like I'm going to, I'm going to house. Instead of what I've seen in my house. same attacks and they usually came like this. No up in DM's around the same time. And then for some needs to get out because he's wasting his time. I said listen. This, this is a curse. This is not in the local church, grounded in God's Word, let's prayer. He says, I'm going to give this a shot three children, walking with God, doesn't think Every family member looks at his family and says, home. You got to find a home of the just. If you cheating, where sickness and disease and all of that home. What I'm saying is plant yourself in you turn blue, I break every curse, if you are enough to stomp on the devil and shout seven if every Sunday you don't show up at Your kids are not going to be professional But you can break the curse by being in the home morning we go to church, we worship God, we honor My child doesn't want to come to I was 20 and my dad didn't give me an option. Amen. Number four, write this down. Some battles When Israel came out of Egypt, their first viciously, mercilessly was Amalek. And you in the Bible but Amalek really offended God, I will wipe Amalek out of the face of the I will have war with Amalek. So first king of first assignments God gives to Saul is to fight of fighting Amalek, kind of spares some people. Prophet Tomy used when we start doing the ministry bit, being called weird. Some places stopped a demon guy. We just we don't want to ruin the knew the deliverance is not pretty, deliverance is like, and I remember went to the Lord in prayer I said, can we just pass this ministry, we have a give that to them. I'm not weird. I don't I don't like that ministry. I like healing better. It's nicer. More quiet. And I remember the Holy Spirit He said, when I anointed Saul to fight I lifted My anointing. And this what if you don't fight My enemy, He says you'll keep the title, you just won't to be famous. I anoint you to break yoke. If you anointing. He says if you want to be cute, get out of ministry. But He says if you want to He says I will anoint you. I didn't say everyone sell ice cream. Don't cast out demons, don't church. And at that night I wept on that if you give me that precious anointing, I don't fight against Your enemy to set Your people So Saul didn't do that. Saul pleased people, some of you don't do deliverance. It's not because you're afraid of what people say about ministry and you're like, absolutely no. I will remember whose enemy you don't want to beat. beating your people. And so you got to fall in denomination or what people say about I'm not saying to be nasty. I'm not saying got to love Jesus more and His people he loved people to please people, more than He loses the anointing. 500 years years later, It's a Book of Esther. Hamon, the Bible says exactly is a descendant the Bible says, he was a descendant of So Mordecai, Esther, 500 years great grandfather refuse to finish. And you were anointed for such a time as this. I'm this battle might not have started with you end with you and you don't see Amalekites Mordecai rose up. I prophesy today in this might not have started that battle but God you God will set you free. God will set a different routine for the future generations. it ends with me. 1 Peter 1:18, &quot;Knowing that like silver and gold, from your aimless father.&quot; Somebody shout, I was Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, &quot;Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree.&quot;) First Kings chapter 2:46, &quot;So the king and he went out and struck him down, and he died. Solomon.&quot; David dies. Before he dies, he passes Solomon you're the next king. Gives him the mule, because David doesn't just pass on the throne, he enemies will become Solomon's enemies and they list of all the enemies he has been living with. don't forget about him, don't forget about this. They will continue to will harass you. Keep an will give us more Davids who will not only pass your daddy has been battling with depression, give us more of those fathers and mothers who will has done but say, hey, that's been a struggle all my life, keep an eye out on weight issue, keep an eye out on him. And the Bible says when then he was established. One of the first before he built the temple is he dealt with Because David prepared Solomon and says listen, you didn't just get a throne from me, you also that are in the Philistine, it's the enemies that and went out every single day, that pretended to &quot;collaborate&quot; with, that you learn to &quot;live with.&quot; you been cohabitating with. God wants you to developed a connection with, and say no. This is my family. I'm not going to normalize depression it. I will neutralize it. I know the previous pills. But this is going to be a new generation creation in God, we will neutralize what previous working hard and never having enough was normal normalized because the Bible says that He will generation always died at 45 out of heart disease I will live till old age and I will serve God. I death in my family tree. Cancer has to die, every is rising up who will execute, execute and exile, say, execute and exile. Spiritual powers need to things that need to be broken in our own minds you grew up in a family where you were constantly We don't finish education. We are not a family we're like cats and dogs. We hate each other. house where you grew up. In your house, you have Joab, I know you're my dad's homie. You dead. suffered with you all his life. He neutralized others that David warned him about. If you notice to live in panic. I'm just saying keep an eye out. could be knocking on your door. And when it does, You might be young and inexperienced but you got experienced and young were holding on to the altar Solomon was a young, young lad but what authority. You might not have a lot of experience got the authority, and the authority trumps and if you walk in your authority you will subdue life and walk in the blessing of God. Somebody with me! Your parents decided your history. Your your genes loaded the gun but it's your lifestyle gun maybe got loaded by your ancestors. You can remove that bullet from the chamber. When my wife, a pastor's family in Moscow. Happy as they could chronic nightmares. I mean I'm talking about me up and I'm a good sleeper. One of the gifts well. I can sleep fast and I sleep really good, yelling and screaming in the dream. I would wake you know we did the deliverance and all of that. Do not miss tomorrow morning. I'm going to deal Lana's deliverance, there was something different eventually we start talking and not only she had a where I lived which is three and a half hours from alone. She was literally the happiest person I've to Tri-Cities and she's like Lot's wife, frozen. like literally just like, like a monument. And I don't feel like I belong here. I was like, you're good. Everybody loves you. Nobody loves The nightmares, this loneliness. She started to start really just pretty much going wrong. It got I'm going back home and I was like, you know I'm nowhere from me. I'm going after you. And I was anywhere. I mean not in a like a domineering So she didn't go. Something happened. This is what psychologists genes can lie dormant for decades until which usually comes as a result of a life change. on psychology. I'm in a Bible College, Bible I was remembering I was talking to my wife her. Her grandma and everyone in the women That was there. Never dealt with, lied dormant as She got saved at the young age, everything was there, waiting for you to pull the trigger. And situation and it almost like wakes up. Doesn't with. It wakes up something that's been lying, always been there. The goal today is not to blame stressful situations but we also understand grandparents put into your gun. He wants to empty you can pull the trigger all day long, nothing same change in their circumstances, no problems, things were pre-loaded in your family tree, those and you're like, where is this coming from? And my It's to live a free life where stress doesn't wake to Jesus. I can bring my cares to the Lord without thing that's been passed on from generation to wait so what do? Do I sign up for ancestry and doesn't tell us to go back into your past and dig and look for Him. I always tell people, don't look something, deal with them. If you go into this one thing. You're going to find things that the things you repented of, things you renounced re-renounce again. It will be an endless cycle. instead of living in your future. The teaching on should never cause you to turn your face from face is on Jesus. The Bible doesn't say, look of God. We look for Jesus but as God opens things with them because He gives us power to deal with Ezekiel 18:14, &quot;If, however, he begets a son and considers but does not do likewise;&quot; the Bible son. So it seems like what but in Exodus it says You must understand, if the next generation next generation, as Ezekiel says, sees what's been this ends with me. I'm not a hater of God, I love normal. I'm going to neutralize that. I'm going to and God says God is going to reverse things. shall say no more: 'The fathers have eaten sour But everyone shall die for his own iniquity; shall be set on the edge.&quot; Which simply means Holy Spirit to put an end to the cycle that's been I'm going to give you just six steps. Probably That's a blessing of being a pastor. Number one, them. If you don't see them, forget about it. But Number two, repent of any known sins, and I'm release any offense and unforgiveness that you to hold on to people because of offenses and Number four, renounce every generational curse. just going to repent. Think of this. Let's just deleted the app. How many of you know that you to renounce. Somebody subscribed. You can delete you cancel that subscription. Somebody have made a generations. You're over here five generations in over there with those demons in Mexico. You're Jamaica, those generations dedicated all of their why is it charging my credit card? That's rebuke every demon that came through the curse. possession. People sometimes ask me, what about in doubt, throw it out. Come on, you don't want you're looking at it and it looks so funny at you. You're like no, you're getting off of the wall you're trying to get married. Oh but it's a ring. Those you can sell. Make some money, come Sunday. Number seven, renew your mind and I'm it's going to be life-changing about breaking down I'm going to lead you in the prayer of renouncing that, I want to give an opportunity to anybody in Lord and as their Savior. Before we deal with important and that is our sin. Maybe you're here service. Perhaps you come and you've been coming, You perhaps consider yourself a good person but say things like, nobody's perfect. So you already maybe you're from some Christian background. It's like going to the airport. That doesn't It's airplanes that take you from point the airport. We connect you to the airplane life. Second category of people are those word backslid means you know what that means. you stopped practicing your faith. You may be just you've seen too much. Whatever the reason and of God's Word, the worship, the presence of Jesus presence has been convicting, and in fact there's I miss this. No one closing their eyes and nobody don't know where you will spend eternity, and right with Jesus today. I'm going to ask you to now right here. If you walked away from Jesus just come. Some of you, I know you've been get you saved. It's coming to the Lord Jesus somebody's been interceding for you. Come on, and they don't know Jesus, ask them right now. to surrender your life to Christ? And walk with Just come. The greatest miracle is not deliverance. It's Going to this conference cannot make you not make you a latte. You have to surrender You have to place your trust completely and Let's go. I want no one to leave this place today right with God through Jesus Christ. Not through If there's anyone else. If you brought a friend with you, you can turn funny, turn to them and say, hey, do you know you die? Have you repented of your sin? Are you say, let's go. Let's go. This tonight is the best night to get Hell is hot, forever is very long and Thank you Jesus. I want you to stretch your hands like you're I want you to stretch your hands like this right us as well. Right there in the chat you can let chat. I'm going to lead you in the prayer. Prayer God hears them. According to Romans chapter 10, believe with our heart. I can hear what you say in your heart. I believe the Lord is working on prayer out loud with me, say Lord Jesus Christ, cross for someone like me. You were buried and the living and the dead. I repent of my sin, of please wash me with Your precious blood. I'm done fully surrender, I give You my life. I give You my those addictions. I surrender. Wash me, change I accept You in my heart as my Lord and as my ministry team just lay your hands on them right let the Holy Ghost right now touch them. Chains be your hands, open up your mouth, begin to pray. If Holy Spirit for the next 30 seconds. Just ask the them on fire, give them a brand new heart, give their heart from the kingdom of darkness in Jesus light, let them move from death to life, let move from the kingdom of Satan to the kingdom of watching us online, that the miracle will happen journey with You, in Jesus mighty name, in Jesus thank you Lord. Just look up at me for just a up at me for just a second. If you live in Houston you to come here. This is where the Lord touched local church that you attend to, go to that local Jesus. Get a Bible, begin to read. Delete probably Begin to read the Bible, begin to go to a local water baptized. It's very powerful. Being a kid as an adult, when you know what you're doing. and begin to walk with Jesus for His glory. Hallelujah. right now I want you to follow, I want Pastor David. okay, so follow them a round of applause one more Right here brother. They'll pray Thank you Jesus. Thank you Lord. Where's We're going to pray right now for renouncing of for those people that need deliverance. If you're that I was talking about your family or I was you realize you're battling with a demonic whether perhaps it's intrusive thoughts and today free. You have faith that Jesus is going to. looking to Jesus to set you free. For those of you ready to renounce them, you're ready to leave just to come forward and we're going to pray, Jesus is in control and nothing There is power in the name of Jesus. Thank you Jesus. Thank you Lord. Just raise Jesus we worship You. Jesus we honor You. Jesus we welcome You. Holy Spirit, You are [Music] There is power in the name of Jesus. Thank you Lord. There is power in the name of Jesus, to break every chain, break every chain, break every chain, break every chain. There is power in the name of Jesus, to break every chain, break every chain, break every chain. To break break every chain. Say there is power in the name Yes, there is power in the name of Jesus. Yes, there is power in the name of Jesus, break every chain, To break every chain, There is power in the name of Jesus. Oh there Say there is power. There is power in break every chain break every chain. Thank you Jesus for Your power, for Your name. I'm going to first lead us in and then we're going to command every curses to come up and out. There's power for those of you who are like, man Jesus is in control. You don't have to manifest just let it out. We are not here to For those of you who are like, well Vlad needs There is power in the name of Jesus, and right now by the power of the Holy Say this with me, heavenly Father, I come to You in the name of with repentance on behalf of my family tree, seeking forgiveness from all their sins but I turn away I turn away from all their sins. I repent from their idolatry, illicit sexual relations, stealing I repent on their behalf for authority, practice of magic and witchcraft, and for anti-Semitism, for ceremonial oaths and I renounce every generational curse of nervous hopelessness, depression, inability to control I command you, come out in Jesus name. Say, I renounce every generational curse deformity, pain, arthritis, allergies of all kind, hay fever and all kinds of respiratory problems, eczema, acne, warts, hernia, blindness, paralysis, deafness and all kinds of spiritual bone breaker Come out in Jesus name. Say I renounce every generational curse of barrenness, miscarriage. Come out in Jesus name. spirit of divorce, adultery, fighting, be removed in Jesus name. any demon behind lack of greed and materialism be loosed out of my life. Say I renounce every generational curse of accidents, every spirit of murder, epilepsy, self mutilation, abortion, and convulsions. Come out in Jesus name. And right now I take authority that is tormenting your life behind the scenes. In the name of Jesus Christ, I command every fear, I command every spirit of death, I command every spirit of lust and perversion name of Jesus. Up and out right now. Every spirit come out right now. Up and out right now. Loose and come out right now in the name of Jesus. Every every spirit of occult, in the mighty name of right now. Up and out right now. Come out of Jesus. Come out in the name of Jesus Christ. right has been broken. Right now out in Jesus Jesus mighty name. I want you to say this Say, you demon, anywhere in the name of Jesus I command Come on, command it out. Command some of you yell it out. Whatever it happens, it's coming out right now. It's coming out out in the name of Jesus Christ. Up and out unclean spirit, up and out right now. Out. Loose That ancestor curse, that ancestor curse in the Ghost fire in Jesus mighty name. Holy Ghost fire spirit, tormenting, hiding behind the scenes, up name of Jesus. Holy Ghost fire in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. The ministry team, when pray for them right now. Let's command the unclean captured them, just command them out, command them the mighty name of Jesus Christ, in the mighty through trauma, every demon that enter through in the name of Jesus Christ come out right now. the bloodline, right now in the mighty name of through abortion, come out right now in the name your grip right now, loose your grip right now. do not be afraid. Just release that, just release the Holy Ghost is setting people free through the receive your freedom right now. Just take Lord is setting you free right now. In the name with me, say, you unclean spirit, the cause of my you demon the cause of my setback, in the name of you tormented my life long enough. Your time is you are, come out! Come out! Come out! Come just place your hand up on yourself. Come out name of Jesus Christ. Come out in the name of the name of Jesus. Masturbation and pornography of homosexuality and lesbianism, come out in come out right now. Come out right now in the name of Jesus. Up and out in the name of Jesus name. Be loosed right now in the mighty name of now unclean spirit, do not harm that person. out in the mighty name of Jesus Christ. I command every Lilith, every Leviathan, every Jezebel, these people long enough. Right now, up and come out in the name of Jesus. I cancel that they made with your family, in Jesus name be in the name of Jesus be reversed right now, be I command every spirit of unforgiveness, every come up and out in the name of Jesus. Every spirit now. Every resentment, up and out in the name mighty name, in the name of Jesus, thank you Let's take a deep breath and just breathe it now. This is the arena of freedom. We may not be is touching you where you are at. In the name of I speak God's blessing over your life right now. I speak God's blessing over your health right now in for just a moment. Let's pray in the Holy Ghost. that You're flushing out, You are turning the cleansing my temple right now. I thank You that that You are disconnecting, You are disconnecting, I'm coming out of this prison of limitation. curses. These chains are being broken right now. my finances will be different, my mental state why? Because the Lord Jesus is setting me free. apostle or the prophet but whom the Son sets free. now, right now, Holy Ghost fire. Holy Ghost fire. fire fall afresh right now and consume every fire fall right now. I hear the chains breaking. the prison right now. The prison of generational coming out of the prison of depression, somebody coming out of the prison of night cycle of premature death. You will live and not I see a prison door swing open, and somebody [Music] I hear the chains broken. I hear the, I hear the chains falling. Deliverance is breaking out all over this room including online. God Some of you will need to right now just, deliverance is breaking out right now. Just [Music] I hear the chains falling. I hear the I hear the chain falling, I can hear the I hear the chain fall. Oh yes I do, I hear the chains fall. I hear the I hear the chain falling. Oh I can hear the chains falling. I hear the chains falling. Oh I Oh yes, I can hear the chains, their falling Oh I can hear the chain falling. Yes I do. I hear the chain, I hear the chain falling. Oh I can I hear the chains falling. I can hear it, I can hear it. Can you hear it? I hear Yes, I hear the chains falling. I hear the I hear the chains falling, I can hear the I can hear the chains, their coming can hear it. I can hear it. I can hear the I can hear, I can hear, oh I can hear the do you hear, do you hear it? Do you Thank You Holy Spirit. Thank You for the work hand on the shoulder of your friend next just speak a generational blessing. So Lord, blessed. If it's your husband and wife, just may our home be blessed. Right now just may our our home. Lord, may Your angels guard our home, may there be divine health over our home, may may over our home there will not be accident and blessings of God that are coming into our home. Father in the name of Jesus, I pray right now I pray in the name of Jesus that Your blessing young homes that are battling with things they're grow in the house of God. In Jesus mighty name, I legacy. I bless this people right now. I bless right now their health. I bless right now their In the name of Jesus I bless the fruit of the you to look at me for just a second. Just, just, ministering, let them minister. For those of you do that tomorrow but I do feel right now by the sickness in your body or you have a pain in your right there where you are at. As you see I'm not right now, what's going to happen is that it's And so and another thing is that I don't want, the where people know me a little bit more is that what's happening right now is the Holy Spirit is the team, because in God's kingdom God doesn't the same Holy Spirit, and another thing, there captives free. There's an anointing in the room or fresh, the Lord will begin to use the power I want to do right now is because I do believe I want to pray specifically for healing right now. people been healed and verified by the doctors impossible to God. Me and my wife could not have gave me a promise and today my wife is pregnant you're standing there and you honestly do not feel it's about your knowledge. Do you know that were healed? Faith begins where the will of God place your hand where there is pain, place your a tumor, arthritis, asthma. Whatever it is, just noise. This is normal. This is what happens when some are being healed, some are going to get hand there. I'm going to lead you in a prayer us don't have a problem with not having faith, faith right now together with me. Say this I believe by Your stripes I was healed 2,000 my body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. My It's to serve Jesus. I command that I command that sickness leave right now. and out of my body and no I receive God's healing by faith. I receive Now I want you to stretch your hands and begin to the Lord. He bore it. It's illegal in your body. the cross. I don't want it. I don't want this in you. I'm not going to use this body to smoke, service. This body belongs to You. Just come on 20 seconds and you say, Lord I recommit myself I recommit my body to You right now in the name that to the Lord right now. Father, I thank You I command sickness to leave. I command disease Christ. That deformity, disappear right now in now in Jesus name. Skin infection, leave right eating, digestive problems, leave right now in over every generational cycle of chronic disease, Lower back pain, be healed in Jesus name. Joints, Lupus be broken right now in the mighty name of Father did not plant in your system, right now be in the name of Jesus. Thank you Lord. Amen. I want you to right now release your faith something without pain, I want you to do that I want you to try to bend without pain. The Bible stretch your hand and his hand it. Sometimes people don't realize it. It's couldn't do in that atmosphere like How many of you notice that the pain