Delicious juicy turkey, gorgeous gravy, and a this! The Christmas turkey. What's better right? bird. So, just let it come to room temperature for from the fridge - cold - to the oven - hot - it's gorgeous golden turkey. Now, one of the ways the first job that I want to do. But I'm also or meat stuffing so you can please everyone, do the day before Christmas so you can take all you can just make everything fall into place in processor because it's really convenient, saves me and a little pinch of salt and pepper just to up. Always do this prep the day before 'cos that's just going to bring too much stress. olive oil in and a nice generous 2 tablespoons of going to make a lot stuffing. Let that bubble for some flavour. You could use any herb but the Sage absolutely loves butter. Nutmeg, it's an frying sage and butter is an amazing start to a And you'll see see nutmeg across desserts it's a beautiful thing. Then we put our onions right now is time. 15 to 20 minutes of mixing it around, but we've got more little pops golden. These have had about 15 minutes, the going to go even more golden but let's add more they're sour, the colour is amazing. This is just toss that around. Those cranberries will you're going to get those pops of colour as well. and all I do is just lightly crush those into cranberries, chestnuts, super Christmas-y And another little curveball flavour that I love or even pears right? But dried apple is so intense pop of that in your stuffing with your turkey it's and sour fruits is an absolute classic. Then give You can be quite generous. The classic clementine. not the white part just the orange part. Normally flavour in the skin in the zest. And look if different herbs you can, absolutely brilliant but truly phenomenal. There's stuffings and there's awesome. We're going to finish this part of the I think cider, apples and turkey is a thing of away. Of course you could use wine, whiskey, away. Very important whenever you're making a meat in question. So I'm going to speed that up by little friends out there, Conker, that includes you want. Now, 800 grams breadcrumbs. Breadcrumbs often wasted and using it to stretch a dish. Once and really scrunch and mix all of those flavours options so I'll divide off half of this right? Take a little bundt tin and just rub this veggie stuffing but we can make it look really take half of it and I'll put that in there like veggie stuffing balls. What's great is you can so with this other half of stuffing I'm going to and get yourself the best quality sausage meat you in there and you've got some basic seasonings as the bird? Do you stuff the cavity? Do you make slightly differently. So take two thirds of that an oven-proof bowl. Nick one of these little and just sink it down right, and it's just going festive and gorgeous. I've got this turkey ready this remaining stuffing. So we're stretching the into that neck and when you stuff it in there like If I spin it around you got this cavity here, not bottom of this carcass. What you don't want to do when you're cooking this turkey right? That's turkey. So I'll just pop this here and then we're turkey off the roasting tray and it is the base Right, I'm going to put some celery on the bottom. carrots, just a couple. Just clank these up, put nothing's going to go to waste. Just big old As that clementine roasts and gets really jammy quarter the onions. We're also going to get the turkey and with the heel of my knife just crack it you got kidney. This is where you get the flavour a trivet. Giblets, onions carrots celery, clanked right and it's star anise, and one little star going to be amazing. Also, just a little piece of and a bay leaf. I can put my turkey now on to do before I cook this turkey is just give it with salt and pepper, and just give it a crannies. There is another secret little tip to and it's involving a clementine again. One clove to secure it. Put that in the microwave hot. Look at that! Steaming hot. You can literally fingers. Now we put this just before we cook the fragrance, flavour, all happening inside that flavour. Take some foil and just put it over contours and the shape. And then just sort This is a 5.5 kilo bird, it's going to go Fahrenheit for an hour and a half with the foil go. While that's cooking, please click and don't forget to subscribe. notification bell so you know what's The room smells absolutely incredible. Let's get checks that are very helpful. First of all you can leave it there for a while, if you get to you feel that you could rip that meat off the another one you can do which is if you just get at the juices coming out, if they're running clear of those checks move this to a lovely platter. of its glory. So we're going to let this turkey because the force of the heat of the oven has you let it rest all that moisture comes back. Nut let's do the gravy. If I angle the tray you separating. Pour that fat into a little jam jar to the drippings you can just angle it here and it in the fridge, start a casserole, soup, stew, going to waste. If you look here we got a lovely we've got onions that have caramelised we've so you can mush all of this up. Take stick and the star anise. This is all going sizzling. And then there's one more element of One generous glass. You want to kind of cook away the flavour. And once you've done that go this will thicken it beautifully. At this you've got lovely homemade stock, brilliant, absolutely fine. So let this come to the bit more water if you want it thicker just let going to be beautiful. But first i'm going to This gravy is ready now it smells absolutely through a coarse sieve right, coarse sieve through. Really use the spoon to push of those bits through the sieve. It's raining gravy! Right, time for a try. Ohh! That is the most delicious Christmas stuffing and the turkey is in there. Jools is delicious. There's one stuffing. How beautiful got our veggie stuffing as well. Put that onto a outside. Look at that it looks brilliant! Finished Perfectly cooked turkey, ready to veggie and non- veggie. And then