Since its debut on the Gamecube, The of Nintendo's many beloved franchises. new faces to the universe, all of I'm Kyle with 1upBinge and this is With that said, let's pluck out our most heroic and working our way down to the The Gold Medal of Good is awarded to The the series was the first one with a customizable gender, haircut and body type is up the Protagonist is a member of the Rescue a distress signal from Olimar. When the the Protagonist is the one to round everyone on the planet. Although not much for words, the Gold Medal for saving more people from The Silver Medal has to go to the original The only character to appear in every game in who does?) Olimar is the highly intelligent and the Pikmin's home planet for whatever reason. and takes various notes, showing he has a strong even while fighting for his life. We'll give him lot of satisfaction in his own work. Even after he's willing to take a few more trips there to it's explained through various reports and on him financially, proving him to be wonder the Pikmin gravitate toward him instead of Of course, we have to give the Bronze Medal to Pikmin 3. Granted, there were two other leading of them, we feel Alph stands out as the kindest not in a bad way; he very much cares about losing a single Pikmin is enough to devastate the beginning of the game, Alph goes to willing to do what it takes to ensure their he's also highly intelligent when it comes to found on the planet. Any way you want to look As great as Alph is, we can't forget that if it have ended up on PNF-404 in the first place. After Charlie gathers up the most competent team he can That is an incredible noble act and thankfully own right. He is very protective over his team's has feelings for. Even if his attempts at romance crosses any boundaries that would make us think duck named Elizabeth back at home who he has captain, friend, hero or pet owner, Charlie has for a reason. His crush on Brittany is enough There are plenty of human characters to count The deuteragonist of Pikmin 4, Otachi joins the performing other tricks unlike anything we've rush, bite, swim and best of all, attach Pikmin only does this spice up the series with new bravery on Otachi's part that he's willing to Given the fact Otachi can be used independently we're willing to say he is the most efficient The Protagonist and Otachi are great together but gotten as far as they did without the rest of the Yonny, Sheppard, Bernard, Russ and Dingo. or the main character as they don't join them in opportunities to make the game easier. Collin respectively while Russ and Sheppard provide Bernard is not quite as proactive but he does showing he has a lot of empathy for others. bunch for the petty things he mutters under his for investigating areas to their completion. we'd probably rank them all even collectively stand as the most moral Let's head back to Koppai residents for a Nelle. A trio of treasure hunters who somewhat Don Bergman is the captain of the crew with specializing in animals. Once the Rescue planet only to realize Otachi is sick they return to the planet to rescue Nelle who giving as much information as they know about hunter is not the most noble profession in the each other is pretty wonderful and the fact they From a triple to a double ranking, up next the planet Ooji, Francois and Kingsley are being the game. Upon being rescued, Francois tasks the population to its fullest potential while Kingsley heads. Seems straightforward enough but the reason castaways is because the player can continue raw materials. This is much different from most of materials you can get. Not only that but bit about the Pikmin population and want to see How about we double that double ranking Schnauz, Sy and Pitunia. Much like Francois for serving different, albeit similar Dalmo is on top of the Piklopedia, keeping across on their journey. Schnauz does the Catalog. Sy and Pitunia are much more taking note of how many Onions and Farlic Flubs All of these characters will reward the as they discover new things. Kind of makes us in the first place to make these discoveries Quadruple wasn't enough? Okay then, have Chewy and Kayz. To put it simply, the reason or less have the same dilemma; they're missing Muggs is missing her TV crew, Chewy is separated team of scientists and Kayz wants to find his does show that these five do genuinely care about even if they're not skilled enough Next, we have another trio (we're doing haven't noticed) of Dash, Corgwin and Jin. darker places considering that their be they caves or Dandori arenas. Dash asks the while Corgwin and Jin reward the player for This is a good way to test the players skills can win Gold. We once again question the somewhat that would have helped the player improve for Alright, let's narrow it down to one character a protagonist in Pikmin 3, it might seem a little playable characters. Well, unlike Charlie and for the most part, Brittany has shown much more Brittany, who is in charge of rationing their it nonchalantly, showing her gluttony can get the Charlie on occasion, possibly due to knowing to Alph (and even slightly flirt with him). does care a lot about her crew and the Pikmin, Changing up our next spot is Puddle. A Puddle gives the Protagonist a if you weren't satisfied with the avatar Puddle allows you to get a second or however many chances you need to get it also shakes things up a bit by adding a Leafling game in anything beyond an aesthetic preference? Now we're back to double rankings as we look at be rescued in Pikmin 4 who give the player the player to build strictures and Frise receives raw materials from performing getting the Lineup Trumpet from Frise Speaking of which, let's round out the Good yet. We're talking about the lost students, TV This includes Sheeba, Keesh, Kaia, Twyla, Horatio, Wolfgang, Vonda, Bernise, Alpin, Chowder, Grace, include so many characters together but again, they're lost, the Protagonist rescues make idle chit-chat. We have to rank them unlike the other castaways who provide raw just kinda... stand there. Any benefit you get from to find them and not the characters themselves their lack of any real help to the mission at hand That does it for the purely Good so let's delve into a deeper sublevel to get to Starting off this category we're taking a look Protagonist of Pikmin 4 is fighting a persistent accompanying them much to the Protagonist and revealed to be Olimar later on when he's cured his illness. This kind of makes sense why Moss Protagonist and Otachi in Dandori Battles which Flying in next is the Hocotate Ship. If you you're wondering how the heck a ship qualifies of the ships that came before or after it, the acts as the main source of information throughout information throughout the journey which would top of criticizing Olimar at every opportunity, often make things up about certain treasures so it first but once you realize this was a creation prioritizes money over everything, you can kind is. Its occasional unwarranted anger to Olimar Speaking of Greed, we're rounding out the Gray Patch. A gambler who traveled to the Pikmin's who puts himself in reckless situations due to he does assign the Protagonist with a side morbid than what we are used to. Essentially, creatures as possible. In order to get the full which is a tall order. Patch seems like a grown-up things apart for his own personal pleasure. He so Good on him for that, even if the journey That does it for the Gray so let's move onto the around but they do more than enough to warrant The Silver Medal of Evil is going to appearing in Pikmin 2, The President is a fat, than the well being of his employees. After The President sends him right back to it with pay off the company debt. According to reports he was being chased by Loan Sharks that caused him and comes back without Louie, The President claims he couldn't care less about Louie and was enticed stated in Pikmin 3 that The President eventually business venture and sent Olimar and Louie back This is what you call a vicious circle ladies and the Greed Medal for his strong desire for As bad as The President was, Olimar did indeed the series. That's right, The Gold Medal of Evil in Pikmin 2, Louie is the dopey new employee of ravenous space bunny while transporting a supply throughout the journey and seems like a pretty until you unlock the special cutscene Louie's Dark ate the pikpik carrots and caused the company's and 4 where he becomes much more belligerent in by Alph, Brittany and Charlie and repays them by He's eventually found and tied up by the trio him. In the fourth game he returns to the planet exotic creatures to eat instead. When the other Louie for some reason avoids them at difficult than it needed to be. Louie is the causing mountains upon mountains of issues for person to receive the Gold Medal of Evil than Gluttony Medal for how much his stomach motivates let's also give him the Darwin Medal since his