Black Holes can swallow anything, made from light itself may offer us abundant Black holes are enormously massive and dying stars many times more massive than our them. One option proposed is to create Kugelblitz to the suggested process for making them, it hole smaller than an atomic nucleus that even civilizations. While there are many ways a these very small ones offer the easiest and Today we'll be looking at the Kugelblitz Black how that would function, how Hawking power generation and mass and lifetime would applications, advantages, and limitations. before a black hole snatches it from you, relax, Now Kugelblitz is the German word for ball the concept. As everyone knows, black holes are gravity. But in reality mass is just one type gravity. An object that is incredibly hot has that same object if it were cold, and so lot of rotational energy and that adds gravity. their energy in rotational format. They are also Photons, the particles of light emitted by stars horizon, can be added to a black hole and their In this same way, if we could manage to get a at a high enough density, we could have enough enough to encompass them. And there is though we'll discuss some possible limits later. a density it can be that if you crammed it down horizon rises linearly with its mass or energy, required density ends up inversely proportional only needs to be at one hundredth the density more massive only needs a trillionth of density. piling a lot of matter together that won't fuse, even if we're piling up iron in one big ball. Even of several million sun's worth of matter is still though there are some black holes that are less Trying to make one this way would seem move a naturally occurring black hole, they're though so massive it wouldn't generally So instead we contemplate trying to and that's where we get into problems. Normally blowing most of the matter there into space and into a very tiny ball. So dense that it can't has to be degenerate matter. Indeed it has to be is around ten trillion times denser than steel. that tight, by which I mean fermions, which is neutrons, electrons, and everything made from Fermi, from where we get the term Fermi Paradox. includes neutrinos and they barely interact with every instant, in fact about 100 trillion hit actually interact with any atoms while passing hearts of dying stars is one of the few places absorbed. Which is how we get many heavy elements. a black hole, same for something else which may or may not be a fermion itself. so we imagine a different option, bosons. include photons of light, gluons, higgs bosons, instead of the three quarks protons and neutrons about bosons is that they don't mind being in them up. Indeed when we talk about wavelength of of a photon of light, and counterintuitively wavelength. So gamma rays are basically on more at the atomic and visible light we can see, as more on the size of molecules and cells. human scale and longer radio frequencies can even virtually no energy, and even a normal gamma as much energy in something as small as an atomic a photon of whatever energy we wanted, you could it would meet the qualifications to have an event in some quantum gravity and cosmology discussion. Which Will Never Exist and generating such a avenue to, so we'll leave that there for today. wavelength can all be in the same place at Even with bosons there are some issues with in a moment, but if we imagined some perfect wavelength in, but not back out, just like thing with energy until its energy density If we imagined we did that with a sphere half which has a wavelength of about half a micron, of photons... 15 trillion-trillion-trillion joules years of power production of our entire sun. something like X-rays, at a thousand times the photon, or even more, could cram into a smaller it. So basically, one year of solar production. before that even civilizations that aren't the quadrillions might still build a Dyson swarm to why that might be the case in a bit, but since the idea is to try to time a lot of laser very accurately so that for that briefest the kugelblitz or ball lightning name. 300 million meters per second and in our blue a millionth of a meter wide, the time a given a femtosecond, a millionth of a billionth of hitting a spot the size of an atom of a billionth of a second, or an attosecond. be trying to dump the entire annual output have mirror arrays able to bounce a beam of light year to get that entire annual solar output in one to think of it in terms of mass, that blue-light a fifth of Ceres, the largest asteroid and one planet instead. While the mass energy of our X-ray crammed into something the size of an atom. for Hawking Radiation as Big Blue isn't energy in a whole year... it might be enough for though, see our episode black hole farming for The Atom X black hole could at least run an Not a lot of power but more importantly, for 7 billion-billion-billion Only it isn't consistent, as it gives off power hole, given a long enough time period, will hold your breath, most wouldn't do so for so long Universe from the Big Bang to the last Star as We would love to create smaller black holes, can generate a beam for or make a material you multiple atoms, and gamma rays are smaller than of this writing, the smallest wavelength laser I'm than our X-ray example, with a power output almost exactly 10^17 kilograms or 100 trillion a lot in our discussion going forward but the key use it for useful Hawking radiation, not unless However it is a lot bigger than an atomic nucleus than it was oozing power out. Mind you, you have neutrons or protons to this thing every second to possible given that a line of nucleons flying at a meter apart coming out of their cannon, and you speed it up as it grew. Though with the caveat hundred times its minimum feed rate you might need something big enough to feed matter in as fast whatever beam you used to make it on it until So, I would bump this into the category of and it is why we spend a lot of time talking and indeed did a whole episode on black hole on hawking radiation black holes. Because a big generate power by other methods as can anything tell if we can make and manipulate higher-energy Now what's all this black In that aforementioned episode I did cover the though we'll go over it briefly today and we'll very confusing thing about Hawking Radiation give off much higher amounts of radiation. explanation in last month's episode on Black Hole that is that the quantum foam everywhere in this virtual particles in pairs that self-annihilate. everywhere, near a big black hole or a small one involved are staggering and mind-boggling. where an incredible amount of force is at play subatomic distance. This can rip those two virtual particles or objects instead of annihilating. force field, Earth has a big gravity field but to another is pretty minor, let alone from one force that matters and so even big black holes black holes and the smaller the better. It such as the subatomic ones acting inside existing Vacuum Energy episode for further discussion. energy in the pair, so one contains negative more of those negative energy particles and energy photons into the wider Universe. and they are more of a calculation device than ambiguous in cosmology and particle physics these they start wondering why the quantum foam, which of particles, seems to be producing just photons photons are the ones falling in. There's no reason his original popular explanation for Hawking a lot of physicists, but I happen to agree with enough version, which is why I often use it. as its energy, not just mass, that is warping that's emitting the Hawking Radiation. the more energy can spill out of it. So, in the radiation, it's that whole sharply curved the horizon and beyond there too, but nothing energy emerges from that warped spacetime region the overall warping decreases, resulting in the If you want another version, then you may think very hot. Think of how a metal bar heats up as spacetime itself in that spot, it is tortuously in this case that spacetime itself and again it's only the region safely out past and it gets sharper and hotter as we approach. then I'll simply say that the math demands radiation, and that the sharpness of that curving curved for how much radiation is emitted. So yes, and so would a white dwarf, or even you or I. less than a normal black hole and a normal event horizon is still so small it takes a years to leak most of its radiation out, producers of Hawking Radiation. least consider that since its really the which we might think of a cracks in spacetime do this without mass, or even energy, if without either. And the kugelblitz approach is and if we wanted to think of this as slicing a laser into the true vacuum or pushing down on a back to where it was,gradually emitting the energy right as the virtual particle analogy Hawking found most clear for the concept though, since I So how tiny and compressed does spacetime need Well, that's obviously a bit subjective, in a cold calculation, a whole civilization might thrive at the End of Time series for further discussion. something like a navigation beacon or to power a about a trillion times longer than we expect That would mass 18.9 million megatons, and I'd bother making unless they were planning to live and they made a bunch of these to stagger their probably more than enough to run a human level offering them a lifetime of at least 10,000 trickle feed particles in from a greater stockpile Beneath this, every kugelblitz is subatomic or by hundreds, a 100 Watt black hole masses trillion years, a 10,000 watt or 10 kilowatt black 10 billion-billion years, and could easily run a black hole masses 18,900 megatons and could run 100-megawatt black hole would be 1890 megatons trillion years, the period of time we think stars black hole, at 189 megatons could match the output it for 10 billion years, the lifetime of our Sun. could run real space habitats, and you may been rising by a factor of a hundred each step, and the lifetime by a factor of a thousand. object a tenth as big generating a hundred times or a thousand times faster. At each step our has the width of that black hole too. Although 1 watt example would be able to dimly light a light - and it only gets worse from there as we convert those x-rays into visible light, and same If you're curious, you could have a black to a normal star, it's just that it would very useful for lighting things, as 20 Back to our powers of 10 wattage scale. Our next at 18.9 megatons, and this would comfortable run complete with auxiliary facilities. And it will do for artificial habitats and space stations the 10 billion year 10 gigawatt level. Note that just find your desired battery life and add your power requirement. That's not optimal sizes that are in the top and bottom At 1.89 megatons we have a black hole able to for 10,000 years. This is long enough to cross a for a trip across the entire galaxy or to a duration terawatt black hole might be needed one to keep it alive but that is just as precise of fuel into a black hole just 5 billionths simultaneously emitting as much energy as the Sun I'm not sure how you could get anything and you might be limited to feeding it something point. Think of a more normal scale black hole a stone into one and even if it skips it's going into you trying instead to throw a rock into maybe you need to fire a bullet from a gun to point where we can't feed matter into one at all. solar system with a giant power collector with an x-ray laser or maybe gamma rays, but not a ship drive you could dump Our 1.89 megaton black hole at 100 terrawatts is alone masses as much as 20 aircraft carriers, general size range, so this works great Most often when folks talk about wanting to they are thinking something more in the 0.189 petawatts and that's enough to comfortably light a it's enough to easily sterilize a continent. half of a billionth of a nanometer across. And is cross an interstellar void and at a high fraction You want, for course, a smaller ship like the or even maybe a kugelblitz black hole running hole produces a billion gigawatts of power for while a 1.89 kiloton black hole, at 100 billion hole, at 10 trillion gigawatts, would shine only for a third of a second. One as bright as at 18.9 tons would live only 300 microseconds. in this scale or much smaller but more energetic that the upper end for the theoretical maximum Joules for one cubic femtometer, then by the trying to emit more than a billion-trillion billion-billion times smaller than a femtometer throughput or complete refresh rate of something which is what we usually say is the hard occur in. There's no half a Planck time. even if you somehow managed to get around all the limit on how small things are getting here where man-portable black hole generators unless or nullifying inertia, which might also allow Some make a case there's also a hard limit at which has a power output of 3.56 watts and a just over the threshold from soft x-rays to hard thus is something we can comfortably work with. number I encountered back when folks were trying produce a black holethat would eat Earth, though far longer to naturally eat this planet than it you're trying to swallow an atom with a mouth billions of them a second to even eat a planet there that even Pacman couldn't overcome. then they need to be regarded as batteries, of power collectors around their sun to store the ultimate commodity currency for civilizations at the center of artificial planets. when you just want mass, you probably still would which would mean placing them either in a magnetic something like a Klemperer Rosette configuration. so much inertia, that they aren't going to be so storing them safely is a lot easier energy density but can only be released at a gamma-reflective mirrors you could, in theory by reflecting some of its energy back into it. applications, and thanks to my friend Bob Fowler specific interesting black hole values I generating natural gravity equivalent to Earth's, twice the land area of Earth, twice a thousandth the mass. And similar, the amount of scales proportional to land area or mass in this for every 25 million kilograms of planet mass. gravity and Lighting supplied by that black your scale is around 10^13 kilograms, a little megawatt black hole, to potentially as high as it would depend on how efficiently you and how close to Earth normal light and gravity quadrillion years, so decently longer than the This would generate you about a trillionth the about 6 meters or 30 feet, just 500 square meters in spherical format. This also means the than in your second story. Now you wouldn't hundreds of black holes in this mass range or keep piling them in to get even bigger. But minimum mass artificial planet building block. flat regions of low gravity bodies, for bunch of these out in some 2D hexagonal and that provides gravity and power and again on a end of what you really want in terms of regular you start getting to energy levels stronger So while you might want some smaller and more specific like a space cannon or spaceship or asteroid cannot really benefit from a higher reason we wouldn't expect folks to bother with Mercury or Venus, the local sunlight is already as habitat so any reactor is like running your dryer of a clothesline, sometimes more practical A rotating habitat would seem easier than this may be higher maintenance and more importantly, excess energy into kugelblitz black holes to use you do need to stores those and you might as I don't know if we'll ever make I'm not sure our science is solid enough on black any certainty on their function or creation, but tinfoil thick power collector Dyson swarm is, hole creation is what you would do with all population and demand there grew to reach that. a black hole you could make and also how latter is always the control on using them for no matter what, black holes are likely to but if we can make subatomic kugelblitz black go-to for both energy storage and power creation, when it comes to interstellar banking. but the neat thing about even small black holes even compared to the stars themselves, and While producing this episode I got asked about having one of our weekly shorts on the topic in a existential episodes that you can build a computer ants pushing grains of food around. If you can computer, and if you're looking for a fun example Turing Tumble, that lets you build a computer It is a great game and my kids instantly named for the great Alan Turing who helped intuitive way to learn and hands-on experiment comes with a wonderful graphic novel that different challenges and switch diagrams to try, Computers don't have to be a black box with of black holes of course - check out Turing Tumble Parents Choice Gold Award, Astra Best Toy for Tower Seal of Excellence. Again, you can learn upperstory.com/turingtumble Use the coupon code So that's it for today and this weekend we'll empires, on Sunday, March 31st, to explore what be like and how they'd function. Then we'll start based solar power and several other clean energy power not only our orbital infrastructure, but magnetic field. Then on the 7th will return to the see expanding alien civilizations is because they If you'd like to get alerts when those and other subscribe, and notification buttons. You and if you'd like to donate or help in other ways, IsaacArthur.net. You can also catch all of SFIA's service, Nebula, along with hours of bonus content As always, thanks for watching,