Transcriber: Mirjana Cutura I feel so fortunate to be here, you guys. I should let you know hell, I barely have a university diploma - but I have found myself I'm the showrunner of my own series. &quot;Showrunner&quot; is industry talk And even as I say it to you, because it wasn't so long ago - that I felt completely and specifically like Have you ever felt a tingle inside? That you were meant for more, that something outside was calling to you, but you didn't feel entitled to it? If so, don't sweat. I want to talk to you about the choice you have See, I spent the majority of my adult life I lived in a constant state of rejection. I'm an actor. I spent my career going into rooms that I was the perfect version only to be told &quot;no.&quot; I'm sure you're all thinking And the irony is work a very small percentage of the time - if at all. So I got fed up. I mean, look, if I was trying to sell you I could blame the jumper. But when the product is yourself, it becomes harder and harder As passionate as I was about acting, I was so sick of feeling like So I did something I started writing, not very well. And it felt like, I don't know, it felt like writing was meant or more special than me. But I get these ideas, one in particular - little morsel. I had an idea for a medical dramedy that took place in a pediatric I know, hilarious. (Laughter) And instead of giving it time I pitched it to an industry veteran. And this guy - smart, hell of a resume - I really trust him. He's also a very good father. For those of you you know he's considered He's the dude who made Ghostbusters. Yes. And he's also here today. Happy birthday, Dad. (Cheers) (Applause) And I am so sorry for the story (Laughter) You see, if you know my dad at all, Yeah. I'll never forget his face. He looked at me, &quot;Catherine, a medical dramedy? Those words on a loop reverberated &quot;Leave that to Aaron, leave that to Aaron, Ah, every time I went to brush my teeth: (Laughter) Tried to parallel park my car: (Laughter) Everything should be left to Aaron Sorkin, who, of course, is responsible for writing and more notably won Smart guy. But yeah, that shut me down. I released the idea back into the wild and felt shame for even stepping Now, if that moment where you suppressed your magic I've got awesome news. That is an absolutely required moment I keep harping on about the choice because I find it very important I find that empowering. But before we take that step, examine what happens because we do it all the time, right? You don't have to say &quot;yes.&quot; You can ignore your inner voice and listen to that more critical voice &quot;You're not smart enough. Remember that teacher That ex-boyfriend He wasn't always wrong. And what if you fail? Would it be that different than your current state For me those two states were the same. The idea of writing something and not writing because I was too afraid of failing was about equal. If you do fail, can you survive it? I think you can. Talk to someone on their deathbed. In 2011, Bronnie Ware published a book She documented the five biggest regrets The number one regret &quot;I wish I'd had the courage and didn't worry so much So look, you can unpack that but for me the takeaway is that it is our duty in order to be our truest self. So let's take a step let's just consider the uncomfortable. Now look, my Aaron Sorkin idea, Dad, wasn't there yet. But Aaron Sorkin by allowing anyone who did something Right? Granted, he's a white male, and that gave him opportunity, you bet. And that's not just my opinion; As a female showrunner, I frequently talking about how key roles aren't going to women. It's why I make a practice of hiring even if their resumes But guys, Aaron Sorkin is not the problem. He's merely the incumbent. He's currently holding office, which means you get to be the challenger. And yes - your path into the arena And in order to do that, That's where the choice comes into play. My path as the challenger started after I gave birth I went back to work too early. I say that because I had And a few years ago, no one was really talking because a lot of people associated it Well, I was not broken, but I was experiencing I felt like I was having I didn't feel like myself I didn't feel like myself which made my first job back - shooting an independent hard. You see, it also happened to fall I was away from my six-week-old son, surrounded by male comedians, They are teasing me, saying that they'll send my son Would it be more intimate Was my son calling ... (Sighs) (Puffs) Was my son calling the nanny &quot;mom&quot; yet? As you can guess, I cried. I broke down right there. I still remember their faces, you know? It was so awkward, but there was also something but I didn't know it in the moment. I went back to my hotel room, who's also my producing partner, smart guy - and he said, &quot;You got to write this down. We watch TV all the time. You can't be the only one There it was, right? The choice. And this time, god damn it, I said &quot;yes.&quot; I wrote it; it fumbled out me. It was awkward and not perfect. And for those of you who are familiar you know that it is the finale followed by my character by battle crying If you're now flirting with the idea I got two things for you. One - it's a lot of work. You're going to work. Two - that work has to be specific to you. You must cut your voice so sharply that it can be mistaken Workin' Moms is that for me. I felt confident writing because I know how hard it is, I also know how luxurious it is. I get to leave my kid, kids now, If you are considering I don't want to burst You're not the only one When I first sold my series, And because my resume had nothing on it, And this guy, who by the way really funny guy, his number one job was to make sure was as relatable And in what world was a mother Was my show targeting mountaineer women? There it was again - that choice. I could stick to my guns or I could trust his experience. I turned in the pilot to the network without the bear scene and a few other scenes The network passed. Turns out, they had another that was very specific, very good, and also produced by Louis C.K., ironically, the incumbent That lesson was a hard one You see, if you're going to be brave enough you must also have the courage because it will be tested. The silver lining is and after several more passes, my show happened to cross the desk Sally Cato at the CBC. She green-lit the pilot to series. I remember siting down because she commented was so relatable to her. So perhaps being specific Look, you might watch this to say &quot;yes&quot; to the choice. That is a very worthy part of the journey. Only you know when it's time I just finished saying &quot;yes&quot; (Sighs) And I'm about to start this process that is completely Dare I say it's outside (Laughter) Who, for the record, is a genius Guys, whatever voice and it is a gift - I'm here not to encourage but to demand Because why not you, baby? Enter the arena. Thank you. (Applause)