Come up Miss Lin Out It's really her good Miss Lin It's really a narrow road for enemies Brother Xiaoyao Otherwise, let's go quickly. Not urgent I'm going to take a look today Who wants to marry this bitch? Limburg Lord Heroes of all kinds Limburg Lord Limburg Lord My daughter today Set up the stage Thanks to all the heroes for not giving up Willing to test with martial arts Happy marriage The rules of this competition are the same as in previous years. No matter which hero knocks the little girl off the stage You can marry into the Lin Family Castle Become the son-in-law of my Lin Family Fort good let's start Come on, you go first. Why hasn't Brother Liu come yet? The competition for marriage begins now good I'll go first Limburg Lord I will call you Master Taishan first. Miss Lin, please Next The little beauty is mine. good Ms. Lin is so amazing good good Come on, Ms. Lin roll Next Hao Hao Hao Miss Lin's martial arts skills are so powerful Amazing Is there anyone else coming? Who else You go, you go You go up I Niche Willing to give it a try come on, come on, come on come on, come on, come on come on, come on, come on cousin cousin Mr. Liu is here I'm optimistic about you It's him Cousin, what are you doing here? Of course I'm here to marry you. Come down quickly, don't embarrass yourself Cousin, you are holding this martial arts competition to find a husband There is no restriction on the identity of the contestants Then I am not your cousin if I stand here Just an ordinary contestant Then don't blame me for being rude. Please, cousin Good, good, good I didn't expect that Mr. Liu was so hidden. I can't let you win But I have a way to keep you from losing Appreciate further details This martial arts all have routines As long as you remember every move of the other party It will be difficult for the opponent to hit you. The competition is to stop at the right time. As long as you don't lose That's a disguised win, isn't it? You remembered my moves. Cousin, you can't hit me I won't hurt you or You better admit defeat. I, Lin Yueru, never admit defeat The last ten moves If I can't knock you off the stage You win bring it on Four five six seven Nine The last resort Only one move left well good cousin cousin cousin OK, OK, OK Fight, what are you looking at? Fight cousin You better give up. Hit cousin Mr. Liu Brother Liu Come Mr. Liu No.1 Scholar Just one step away, why don't you have some concentration? Brother Li, you can't say that. I am still very grateful to Brother Li for teaching me the method I am not as skilled as others. I have no destiny with my cousin I told you that you can't beat me Even if there are bad people who come up with bad tricks It can't do anything to me either. This is a martial arts competition This isn't some hero conference. If she is invincible Isn't it that you can't get married for the rest of your life? Be a lifelong aunt you yes No, no No, no. Because you are injured. I don't want to bother with you today Get out of here now You thought you could hurt me Defeated It's me who doesn't want to bother with you. Little thief, as long as you dare to come up Between you and me, we only talk about fighting Regardless of marriage I don't believe it. What if you go back on your word and insist on relying on me? Then I will be unlucky for the rest of my life, right? yes you How can this be bad luck? Brother Xiaoyao Let's go. I'll find a chance to explain it to Miss Lin some other day. good No comparison, no comparison But in my opinion You're just like these men in the audience. They are all turtles Go up Don't go too far. how The turtle is angry Go up Go up superior Just go up Brother Xiaoyao Ling'er, don't worry If I don't teach this savage girl a lesson She will definitely haunt us again And I'm only talking about fighting Regardless of marriage Brother Li, please don't hurt my cousin. Brother Xiaoyao, be careful We agreed that we would only discuss the contest and not the marriage proposal. Cut the crap Make a move good Good job, young man. good good good cousin OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK, OK, OK OK OK OK OK Amazing I really didn't expect Miss Lin to lose. I knew it early on She is no match for this young man. That is How about it? Are you convinced? You wait, little thief. cousin Be careful Young hero is awesome good good good Good job How's it going, cousin? leave me alone you lose I'm going to kill you, little thief. Don't overestimate your own ability. You can't afford to lose. This young man He is so skilled at such a young age. May I ask your name, young man? Yuhang Li Xiaoyao Good name Li Shaoxia congratulations Everyone Five Martial Arts Competitions Today, we finally got the result My Lin Family Fort will be open for three days starting tomorrow. Fellow villagers Martial Arts Fellow Please come OK OK sure Wait, you, what do you mean? Dad, this game doesn't count. Martial artist Be willing to accept defeat Limburg Lord, right? I have something else to do. Bye. Li Shaoxia This stage I'm looking for a husband for my daughter. Since you won There are also heroes from all over the world who bear witness to this How can I not recognize it? You just said We only talk about the competition, not the marriage proposal If I beat you Our holidays are written off Does it count now? Of course. I want to compete with you again Stop, stop. Lord Limburg, did you hear that? Your daughter said we were just exchanging martial arts skills. You guys can take care of the marriage proposal slowly. My Lin Family It is the largest martial arts sect in the Central Plains. How could it be What do you say? How can it be Congratulations to Ms. Lin on her marriage A handsome man and a beautiful woman Li Shaoxia, did you see it? It's what everyone expects Dad, I will never marry him. Nonsense You and I have already said Since Li Shaoxia won How can it be possible Going back on your words and not admitting your mistake You wait, little thief. cousin cousin Stop it, we know we were wrong. Help! It sounds like a girl crying Please, stop hitting me. did not expect This just came out There is a chance for this hero to do justice. Walk Stop hitting me. I let you run Are you still running away? I let you run Miss, you treat me well, I know Changgui swore to be good to me To marry me If he really wants to marry you Why did I trick you into elope? Miss, I didn't, I really didn't lie to her I swear to God, I really love her You, you're still lying, right? You're not telling the truth, you're lying, aren't you? let go Are you OK You bitch, you're so cruel. I can do whatever I want, it's none of your business You are such an unreasonable evil woman. I'll show you some color today Thank you Miss Changgui I will treat you well, flower. Changgui, run! Thank you girl Changguige Flying Dragon Reaching the Clouds I, I want to grab the whip Sorry, pervert. You let go I did not do it on purpose I can let you go, but you don't have to hit me anymore. I'll kill you, pervert. You let go Be honest with me let me go Let me go, quick. Let you experience other people's feelings How about it It must be uncomfortable to be tied up. Let me go Otherwise I'll go back and call my dad Send someone to break your legs Brother Xiaoyao Or we should just let her go. Didn't I hear you let me go? She's going to ask her dad to break our legs. How can I put Let me go, quick. Ling'er, let's go. Suzhou City is in front It is said that Suzhou is a very lively city. Let's take a look at the fresh let me go You two let me go Brother Xiaoyao But leave her here alone Not right You let her go now. Didn't she catch up with that young couple again? Wait until they get far enough away. We can just come back and release this wild girl. Ling'er, don't worry. I'm talking to you two, let me go Walk Let me go Is there anyone? Help Help! Brother Xiaoyao That girl kept shouting for help Is there anyone? Ignore her Most likely he is just pretending to trick us into going back. But Why don't we go back and have a look? Is there anyone? Help! All right Then go back and have a look. Help! Help! Look, Ling'er You are just too kind. What's wrong with you Scared Want to beg for mercy Who is scared? What's your business if I shout casually? Then we go You go your way. Don't let me run into you next time. I'm not going to break your legs. Such a scary wild girl Go fast Go Go Go you Help, is there anyone? So annoying I heard from Boss Fang before Suzhou is a big and beautiful city I haven't been there After we go Let's find a restaurant to eat something first. Is there anyone? Brother Xiaoyao Listen, help! Do not touch me What are you doing? Don't touch me. Get lost roll Come Help! Who are you? Your grandpa There are really evil people How dare you tease a decent woman in broad daylight? shrew What nonsense are you talking about, little bastard? There is also a girl here. We have gained a lot today. Take her back and die. The king will definitely be happy You wait Don't run away. Wait for me to call someone You guys run fast. Wake up Wake up Brother Li Brother Li Let's take a break. That's right, you're walking around like this. Where can I find Ling'er? Let me drink some water. Drink some water Take a break Don't worry either. Ling'er will be fine. Since Miss Ling'er was not captured by the snake demon It must be waiting for us somewhere. Good luck will come to you. No matter where in the world I want to find Ling'er Wild Girl How's your Qinggong? I don't know how good it is. But compared to you, I'm definitely much better than you Then teach me now Now, you want to learn Qinggong from me Learning some Qinggong may help you run faster You can find Ling'er soon. But now we are still unsure of the direction It's no use running faster. that is Ling'er just disappeared Even if you are caught, you can't run far. As long as we are heading in the right direction I will definitely find Ling'er soon. Idiot Don't think of those unrealistic methods. Out of tune Come on, you say What is the tuning method You are the only one who is anxious, others are not. Questioning this and that every day Who do you think you are? Cousin, Brother Li baffling You are in a hurry, Ling'er can But look at yourself now. Look at your own injuries. I'm fine. I don't need your help. Do you know how to worry about other people? What happened to the others? When I killed the fox demon with you Why didn't you ask me if I was injured? You're not injured, why should I ask you? How do you know I'm not injured? Wasn't I right next to you? cousin cousin Why are you arguing again? No.1 Scholar, take a look Your cousin is so weird. Brother Li, calm down first. My cousin has grown up This is the first time I've been in such a dangerous situation. Although I don't say it But I must be very nervous. She is just venting. Don't take it to heart It's urgent. It's more important to find Miss Ling'er never mind I'm too lazy to tell her You should just ask me It's my business whether to reply or not If you don't ask, it's your fault Chou Xiao Zi ,Ni Mei Ci Du Re Wo Next time I will make you scream. What is this? Rumor has it that the body has not decayed after being buried for a long time. Then your eyes will be as white as pearls Finger like a hook Teeth exposed outside lips like sharp blades The people call this corpse-transformed thing a corpse demon. Corpse Why, you hide when you're scared? This girl protects you careful It is said that if you are bitten by a corpse demon, you will also become a corpse demon. Please, stop hitting me. stop fighting Please, stop hitting me. stop fighting Please, stop hitting me. Please stop hitting me. Help! very painful very painful Stop, stop hitting. Why don't you fight? Are you scared? It's not that I'm afraid It's the ghosts that are afraid of people Fear of people These corpses are transformed from dead people. Nature has no pain, no consciousness But these corpses Being beaten by my cousin It must be an ordinary person pretending to be someone else. exactly You really think I can't see explain Why don't good people become zombies? Say, what's your name? Why pretend to be a corpse? I My name is Li Si This is the territory of Guiyin Mountain No outsiders allowed Ghost Mountain The Hidden Dragon Cave is located in the Guiyin Mountain area. Then why are you guys playing tricks here? You haven't said it yet, right? Don't hit, don't hit, don't hit I us We just This is just a bandit living in the ghost mountain Bandits Our Village Before, in this ghost mountain Later, a corpse demon appeared here. The young and strong ones all ran away Only some old and young ones are left We really can't live anymore. I just wanted to rob Really are Just after beating the snake demon, the corpse demon appeared Have you ever seen A girl of seventeen or eighteen Zhao Linger Zhao Linger Seen, seen, seen Just now Yeah