Claudia Romeo: Ola from Portugal! We are in Matosinhos, a town nearby Porto. We are at Conservas Pinhais, which is one of the oldest preserving and one of the few that the traditional, artisanal way. Today we're going to got such a big cult following. We're going to see how sardines are canned here at Pinhais and what sets this artisanal method apart. If you travel to Portugal, chances are you will come back home with an array of souvenirs And during the country's 13 sardines are eaten every second. The country has a long to the point that the sardine has become a national icon. But why? Claudia: Canning itself did It was a French who first successfully He found his way to after presenting his inventions to French emperor Napoleon, who was looking for a new to feed his army. After Appert's discovery was made public, canning quickly became popular. With Portugal's extensive coastline and an abundance of fish, it wasn't hard for the and by 1925 it counted Claudia: An important Matosinhos became a hub Claudia: After the war, the In 2013, Portugal counted only 20 fish-preserving factories. Many factors contributed to this decline. The replacement of with cheaper raw material, climate change, fishing regulations due and the automation of the canning process. Founded in 1920, Pinhais last surviving preserving factories. Claudia: Pinhais makes four sardines in olive oil, spiced sardines in olive oil, and sardines in spiced tomato sauce. We followed the making of and the spiced sardines in olive oil. These are the fresh sardines that have arrived this morning and the canning process so everything is gonna be finished by 5 p.m. this afternoon. All the sardines are gonna be tinned. Now it's time to go and see how sardines are actually After the sardines arrive at the factory, they are placed on a marble table, and the head and bowel of Then they are brined The sardines are placed by Senhor Albino in his Then the sardines are rinsed Claudia: All the ingredients and added by hand, one by one. Each can of spiced sardines carrot, laurel, piri-piri, Senhora Emilia is in and she keeps her recipe secret. The fish are canned in tinplate tins, then washed and sterilized. These are the only two These two ladies are in They do that by listening carefully to the sound of each tin. This is the sound of a good tin. [tins clanking] And this is a bad one. [tins clanking] Tins are stored for at Whenever a customer submits an order, the cans are wrapped by hand. Which, by the way, is not an easy job, as I had the chance to wrap a can myself. So, this one? Employee: You've got more than one there. First on the bottom. Claudia: Oh, it's very slippery. Employee: With this hand [laughing] Claudia: Too much tape. A bit big, no? Yeah, it's hard. Obrigada. So, we have finished our and now it's time for tasting. We have sardines in tomato sauce and sardines in spiced olive oil. This is actually my very, eating sardines out of a can. Now it's sardines-in-tomato-sauce time. I'm not good at opening cans. This particular can was made in 2015. It's four years ago. Well, let's have a sardine. Oh, it's so good. [laughing] Wow. Wow, this is so good. It's really amazing. It tastes as sweet as tomatoes, and the oil is incredible. Just by this one bite I can I have a bad memory of canned stuff because I'm really scared of, like, the strong taste of vinegar or, like, very, very bad vegetable oil. Whereas this is so fresh; it's so nice. It reminds me of just, like, my grandmother cooking tomato sauce. She could have just, you and this would be my lunch. Like, so good. [laughs] OK, well, let's try the spiced. I'm not big fan of spices. So. [laughs] Let's see if this is It's not the spice that I was expecting. This one is a very subtle spice, and also it tastes very, like, earthy. I can taste the laurel straight away, and that is interesting because that's, like, Why haven't I been eating [laughs] Canning them, I think, Pinhais exports 90% of its from Austria to the Caribbean.