6 chicken drumsticks and 4 chicken thighs. 1 1/2 tsp salt. Hello everyone . 1 tsp black pepper. 1/2 tsp garlic powder. drizzle with olive oil. Olive oil helps seasonings stick to the chicken, retain its natural juices, also the fat in olive oil carries fat-soluble flavors from spices deeper into the meat. rub the spices into the chicken. Melt 3 tbsp butter over medium heat. I have three chicken recipes for you to cook this month for every taste! Your kids will surely love the last recipe! Fry the chicken thighs, skin side down, until golden brown, about 4 minutes. Flip and cook the other side for another 3 minutes. set the chicken thighs aside. Fry the drumsticks for about 7 minutes on all sides. Set the chicken drumsticks aside. 1 onion. add onion to the pan and fry over medium heat for 1 minute. 340g / 12oz button mushrooms. cut the mushrooms in half. add mushrooms to the pan. add 2 small fresh bay leafs or dried. Fresh Thyme or 1/2 tsp dried thyme. Cook for 7 minutes. thinly slice or mince 2 garlic cloves. cook for another minute. add 3 tbsp flour and cook for 1 minute. Add 1/2 cup / 120ml Chardonnay or any dry white wine. Add 3 cups/ 700ml chicken stock. Return chicken back into the pan. Cover and simmer for 12 minutes. Meanwhile cut some potatoes. We will prepare the best side dish . Add 1 tbsp salt and cook until tender, about 18 minutes. Remove the lid and continue to simmer for another 25 minutes. Add butter and milk to the potatoes and mash well. Add 1/3 cup / 80 ml Heavy cream and stir. Add spices: 1/4 tsp Salt, 1/4 tsp Black pepper and 1/4 tsp Nutmeg. Some fresh thyme or parsley (optional). Serve with mashed potatoes, rice, pasta or whatever you like . Get ready for the second most delicious chicken recipe . mm...delicious . 8 chicken thighs. Season with salt and freshly ground pepper. For those wondering, this recipe was filmed when I was pregnant with my third son, Romeo. drizzle with olive oil. 2 tbsp butter. Heat the butter in a skillet over moderate heat. Cook for about 2-3 minutes. 1/2 onion. Flip and cook for another 2-3 minutes. Scatter the onion on top and fry for 1 minute. 1 clove of garlic. Add the garlic and stir it around. Cook the chicken about 4 minutes, turning the pieces in the butter. Sprinkle 2 tbsp flour over all, turning the pieces so that they are evenly coated. Add the 3/4 cup (180 ml) Dry White Vermouth. 1/4 cups (60 ml) Chicken broth. 1 bay leaf and 2 sprigs of fresh thyme or 1/2 tsp dried. Cover and cook over moderate heat for about 10 minutes. 1 carrot, cut into fine julienne strips. 1 leek, cut into fine julienne strips. Stir, cover and cook for another 10 minutes. Add 1/2 cup (120 ml) heavy cream. Simmer for about two minutes. Get ready for the third most delicious chicken recipe . Your kids will love it!! mmm.. delicious. 1 Egg, room temperature. 1/2 tsp salt. 1/2 tsp black pepper. 1/4 cup cornstarch. 1/2 tsp baking powder. Mix well. Cut into bite pieces 1.5 lb / 700 g chicken thighs. Mix the egg mixture well with the chicken fillet. I used Avocado oil for frying but you guys. can use any frying oil you have :). Add the Chicken pieces one at a time into the hot oil. Fry the Chicken in batches. First-fry for 3-5 minutes until golden and cooked through. Remove and drain. Repeat the process with the remaining chicken. For the second fry, return all the chicken pieces to the wok. and fry on medium-high heat for another minute until golden brown. Drain and set aside. In a clean wok over medium heat add 3 tbsp unsalted butter. 6 Garlic Cloves. Once butter melted, add the Garlic and stir for 30 seconds until fragrant. 2 tbsp soy sauce. 3 tbsp brown sugar. 2 tsp honey. Stir for 20 seconds and turn the heat to low. Add the chicken pieces and mix well to evenly coat the chicken with the sauce. add 1 tbsp toasted Sesame Seeds. Green onion. mm...delicious. Thanks for watching, likes and subscribe . Have A Delicious Day!