One burning question is how much do you earn He got a full time package there, I think it was 1.5 Cr. 1.5 Cr? Yeah. How much was the experience? So I had like one year In my previous company there were from teaching, philisophy But they were not even engineers? Yeah, they switched careers to become software So they want somebody to be in the same timezone as them or Lets say a student is just getting out of college. Is it possible for them to get a remote job? Is DSA asked, first tell us that. So in my experience, nobody asked me, those I DSA was not asked? Absolutely not. I feel a little bad, I teach DSA, but alright. What do they ask then? . Hi everyone, welcome to a new episode, and in this episode we are going to talk about remote jobs. And for that we have Urvashi with us. Who has three years of experience working remotely. So Urvashi let's start with a short introduction. Sure. Hi everyone, my name is Urvashi, I am a So I graduated from DTU in 2020. We both are from the same college. And she's my senior. 1 year senior to me. Yeah and after graduatin I joined HackerRank And after working for some time there, I so I joined some tech education startup in Europe, and after working some time there, I finally switched Awesome. So we have to ask you a lot of how much do you earn in remote jobs? What are the salary ranges? So this is difficult to answer because ranges can be very big, just like any normal, in-office job because some engineers similarly in remote jobs the ranges are quite wide. So it depends on a couple of factors, so first of all, the main factor is obviously location. If the company is indian, they will pay And it depends if its a startup. If they've got funding, accordingly the salaries That is, it varies a lot Yeah it varies a lot. And if the company is outside, let's say european, and they are paying their engineers, let's say 60-70 lakhs. For like 1-2 years of experience. So two things can be done, either give or they will give a little less. Pick you for cheap, since there is less salary in india. Yeah for that, so they adjust a little for purchasing power parity. Correct. And there must be companies that pay equal. Yeah those types of companise also exist Where you are located, they will pay everyone Got it. So what is the maximum package So I know a friend who after working freelancer in the same company, he got a full time package there, so I think it was 1.5 Cr. 1.5 Cr? Yeah How much experience did he have? So I had, like 1 year, but he had done some freelance See. 1 Cr with one year, 1.5 Cr with one year of experience. That's awesome. Okay. So I want to ask a question about Tier-3 college student, many students are there think that the companies hiring they will pick the NITs, they won't select if its a Tier-3 college. So is there such thing even in remote jobs? And also tell about CGPA. So I will first tell about CGPA. So nobody asks CGPA. And I never even wrote it on the resume. You know who asks CGPA in India? Service based companies. They demand that it must be over 70%. I mean FAANG companies don't ask, to be honest. When you go off-campus, they won't ask. Yeah nobody asks off-campus, nobody has asked me. Yeah but service based companies do But in remote jobs, its not a requirement. Yeah, good jobs won't ask you, they only care about your skills. And in college, some have requirements that you need a formal Or even if you've done bootcamp, its possible. In my previous company, there were from teaching, philosophy But they were not even engineers? Yeah they switched careers to become software Great. And College's name Yeah nobody asked the college name and mostly the companies So they just, they care about that you have an education or not, otherwise your skills speak for yourself. Awesome, okay. So before moving on in the video, let's talk about Crio. So Crio is world's first experiential learning and So Crio follows learn by doing approach. Now what's this learn by doing approach. So you learn while working in projects, real world projects, like building applications similar to Amazon, So you learn while working on these projects. Now we'll talk about these projects and curriculum. But before that you also get a very good mentor support at Crio. And these mentors are professionals working in companies So you'll get detailed insights from them on Second things is, Crio offers exclusive career assistance Which is definitely going to help you in placements. So now let's talk about fellowship So you have two tracks here, one is You can choose either of these tracks, accroding to your interests. And again as I told you, you'll be learning along with the project. So while doing project you'll learn Then you'll be working on some awesome projects. Also most of you must be preparing for interviews as well. So here you will get a detailed curriculum which And system design for interviews. Other important thing, in this program Crio offers job guarantee. By job search support, referrals and Crio is also trusted and recognised by NSDC Besides the free trial link is in the And now let's get ahead in the video. Well I will ask you what requirements they have but How do you search, ask for referrals? Sure, so one option is to directly go in And you apply there. So a few of the job boards, mainly LinkedIn, So you can do the filter there, I want to apply To check the openings there. And then one other website that I personally use So mainly startups are there in wellfound. And again you can filter job openings according Or even full time roles. So you can found them on wellfound. And a couple of other websites, so there's So what the process there is, you have to apply there, so there will interview, but you interview Is it a personal interview sort of thing? Or you just have to apply and fill the information? Yeah, so I didn't do, a friend of mine did it. So Turing and Toptal are two of them. I think he worked in Toptal. So firstly I think he had to submit his and then he had a chat with them. And then they match you with the projects. Alright. Basically they try to maintain the quality Exactly Then they will connect you with the companies and Yeah. Awesome. Great. Besides I will put the link for these portals You also must be having a list of companies right. So I curated a list of, I think, 23 job boards. That I tried during my own job search. And I'll send the link to you, you can add it, share with others. Awesome. Okay as compared to in-office jobs, which Compare to that, how difficult is So any good job has difficulty, there's a higher bar so obviously you should have that skill set. Then one added layer of difficulty is if you are then they have time zone as a requirement. So you can't do anything about time zone and location. Like it isn't in your hands. So they want somebody to be in the same timezone as them, or an overlap of 3-4 hours so that you I think there must be an issue in communication as well. Yeah, exactly and since everything is remote, so communication but more focus is given into communication and culture fit. Because people are from different parts of the world, Because they have less communication there, Fruitful conversation. Exactly. Okay, so what are the options for freshers here, is it possible for them to get a remote job? Absolutely. So when I was at HackerRank, when I was interning, I know three From our college? One was from our college, and Okay. But they had done a lot of opensource work And got into, I think it was cloud and backend. And they had done a lot more work, So I wouldn't say that they had no experience at all. They had a lot more experience as Okay and can you please pin point those Yeah, so there is like on paper experience, So maybe you might have some people do This gets wrong. They do but okay. It doesn't happen mostly. Yeah mostly this is not the case. So what you can do is, you can do internships, Then you can do open source work because Its just out there on GitHub. Anyone can go and look at it, the kind of code you've written. And one more thing that open source work teached And then how to collaborate with other developers, And obviously industry level practices. Testing, code quality all of these things, while being still in university. And someother things that you can is Hackathons. Hackathons also, yeah. And one more thing which I think people don't know about is, a lot of people So you don't have to build like a unicorn startup, it can fail also. Most of the startups fail. But you've tried buiding something from scratch, how to talk to customers, how is sales done, so that Awesome. I hope you've gotten a roadmap, what you should do. If you want a remote job, or anyways, even if you To participate in hackathons, open source contributions. Okay, so now I want to know about the interview process, from your experience, how is it, what is asked? Is DSA asked, first tell us that. In my experience, nobody asked me. Those I know that do remote jobs, they were also not asked. Not asked DSA? Absolutely not. Any example where they did ask DSA? No. They don't even ask in open source. You know, you just contribute, show your So the interview process mostly I feel a little bad since I teach DSA but alright. What do they ask then? So DSA has its own role. I am not saying to not do DSA, that is your problem solving skill. So without problem solving skills, how will you build softare? So the big companies ask for DSA interviews because they have Exactly, because these tech giants, so they can judge you on the basis of DSA. This person knows how to solve problems, So they can teach them. now they have enough buffer, taking 6 months, But I guess startups don't have that much time. Yeah, if they even have fundings, So they want somebody who can start working from day 1. Start contributing from day 1. Okay. So let's go to the interview process, what things are asked? So in my experience, my first position was So that startup was teaching, training there's s startup and they want to build a new project, and they want to teach their employees Golang. So they will come to us, and then we will give them trainers Alright. So my job role was to create that teaching content. To create the curriculum. So the interview was for around the roles, So I had three rounds, the first round was a topic of JavaScript, I had to create a module on it. So I passed that round, and the second round so they gave a month's time, I was supposed to study on it, and after an hour, like most of these interviews happen supposed to teach them. And I passed that too, then the third round was culture fit round. So I had another round with the co-founder only. So we had a chat, it was a normal, casual conversation. And I asked any questions that I had, so its very because it shows, how you talk with people. Absolutely. And there's that too, study a little about the so you will be able to ask good questions. Yeah not like asking the same questions, but like so I am curious on what kind of team I am going to work with, so I asked about the team, how many engineers are there, How are performance evaluations done, so So that only, culture fit round was for the it had an even simpler interview process. So only two rounds. The first round, and I think it was simpler And that friend got this job via twitter. He got it via twitter, then you got a referral from him. How did they get it from twitter, please tell that too. So on twitter, if you are not active on twitter, a lot of so you can reach out to employees there. So it was a similar process, there he reached out to so they first hired on project basis. They liked the work and everything, then they hired him full time. Awesome. So in that interview, they asked me in the first round, it was a video call and I walked them through my projects, my And then second round was again culture fit round. So conversation between the other co-founder, and same type Like what they were building, what kind Got it. That sort of stuff, yeah. Awesome. Now I have another doubt, if you are if you are working outside India, do you still remain an employee Yeah. So the international companies, there is again these kinds of agencies or intermediaries do to help them provide employment to global employees. So that means, suppose I take an example from Rippling, so the offices for Rippling is right now in India. So they will legally employ, Make you an employee yeah, but you are supposed to report to the startup. Got it. So basically they are acting as intermediatory company, where we Your services are being provided to their clients. So in this you are just normal employee, just like in any other company. Your taxes will already be deducted Now there is one other option, so in that what that company does is, hire you directly but obviously So you work as a contractor. So contract can be 1 year, 2 year long whatever. And then it gets renewed. Depending on the requirements. So in that, the salary is directly sent wired from, and you are supposed to pay your own taxes. Okay, in this case I will tell a bit. So as a contractor, basically you are acting as a business, for the company, right. So you get the amount from the company, and You will have expenses do to that thing, let's say you bought some After reducing those expenses, whatever is the Yeah. And you don't get the employees benefit. Yeah, you don't get insurance, you Yeah. But you actually get stocks. You get stocks? Yeah, I mean you'll get esops options if its a startup, just like Rstos are given right. Rstos is still stocks, so options is because the to buy the shares at a later point. So normal 4 years of vesting, it depends on the company, Okay. So tell me one thing, are you enjoying remote working? Yeah, I think this is the thing for me, I always I think there are some benefits, you don't have to travel to office, I stay in Bangalore, I know how painful it is Specially because of the traffic. Because of the traffic. So you can work from anywhere right. You can actually go to places, and you can do workations. Yeah I do them quite frequently. But again you have to work, that doesn't mean Just having fun. just travelling a lot. You have to be responsible for your work. Nobody has to ask you again and whether you have finshed the task or not. There's no micromanagement. Yeah, you don't do that here, you You have to motivate yourself, being responsible even if you are travelling or working from abroad. Got it. Don't you miss team outings? Team outings happen in remote also. But I was not able to go in both of my Which company, the US or Europe one? In the US one, in the european one I was working at the time of Covid, So there was nothing there. And when it happened I had left the company. Like just a month before their retreat happened. So I was not able to go in that, and then in the And US visa right now, people might So I couldn't get a visa. You could not get a, do you have No, they provide everthing, flights, where you will stay, everything is paid by the company only. Alright, even then do you feel any disadvantage Yeah definitely both have their advantages. In office, obviously you get to meet new Getting to learn from others. And motivation comes itself, so due but if you are working alone, in your house. Then sometimes you get bored. Whether to work or not. But yeah its hard, but you know pros and cons. There are a lot of benefits, you don't have to pay rent. You know how high rent is in Bangalore. Yeah, there is that. You can save a hell lot of money, you can save But at the same time, going to the office has its own fun. When I came I started working remotely because of Covid. I worked remotely for a year in Cure.fit. Then I came to Google, like I worked in-office in Google, both have a lot of differences. In office you have people around you. Yeah office was also very fun. Like when I started, when I came to we had a lot of fun, but I realised that Yeah that happens. Okay. Alright Urvashi we have gotten a lot of information. But before we leave, any advice for students, So one of the advice would be obviously, I have already mentioned earlier many times, so do open source, that is a proof of your work. You'll learn remote working skills also. You do internships, again you are building skills and obviously like, as much as you can, try to learn skills. Because, recently I came across this tweet from ykdojo, csdojo so he said, &quot;Excellent work attracts excellent opportunities&quot;. Which is very true. If you work good, you will have good opportunities yourself. Will have yourself. I would encourage you to start talking to people, Yeah, building a network. They don't get out of their comfort zone. I mean I've seen people that are so pro at competitive programming, at development, but then they are not able to communicate. They are not able to tell about their work, what they've done. So get out of that box too. Communicate with your friends, family, talk with your mentors, and if nothing, you can start discussions That's how I made friends. Yeah, on twitter also and you can go to tech conferences, they have talks, there are many in Bangalore, Now they are everywhere, like this awareness is everywhere. On Web3, many other tech stacks. Yeah that's a great thing. So go there, you'll meet new people. Maybe you work on like a personal project with them. So they can refer you somewhere So building a network is extremely important Networking has a strong power. Exactly. Alright thanks a lot Urvashi for sharing this with us. It was great to talk with you. And I hope you got a lot of information. So thank you Urvashi for being here Thank you so much. I am very glad to be here. Okay, thank you By the way, check out Urvashi's channel, the link is in the description. And if you haven't checked Urvahi's insta, I've given the Okay, see you, Bye-Bye! Thanks a lot!