I wanted to say 2 thank-yous before The first thank-you is to Noel not only have they organized a wonderful event, but to support this kind of work in this Because it can be very... sort of lonely So having a community and support with things And the second thank-you I wanted to make was... you mentioned before Amy's And I actually wanted to mention that, because Jules Engel was my teacher, and we met there, studying with him back in the '80s. And Jules was a very special man. to thank him. He's no longer with us, He was a man who was able to bridge the and filmmakers like Oskar Fischinger, and brought that aesthetic and approach to studying with him. he was like a one-person bridge And I know I wouldn't be here today, He was also an incredible teacher, I hope he can hear me, anyway. So in my talk, I'm gonna show you They're all pretty short, so there's And they're not in chronological order when thinking about this, was to talk about the process of getting to the film. So I started out, actually, And I studied Painting for a couple of years and then left art school because I, I became disenchanted with Painting. Although I love painting. I was disenchanted So I went to a University, studied And while I was a film student, I took One was with John Whitney Senior. Another was with another teacher And when I took those courses, I could be a way of coming But now, it was a painting practice as well as Sound. And suddenly, I became really It's like I found a language. And one of the things about was the fact that no one image mattered. With Painting, I became very overwhelmed But with Animation, I had to make so I didn't have to worry so much about what And that actually was really important and it does relate to what I Because I realized that I've created for getting past the kind when we're making creative work. Sometimes we actually have to create And so, that's a little bit what I some of those methods of getting past So I called it 'Unexpected Paths' because when I start a film. In fact, I don't even because what I do is I just work, I just And some of them become films, some of some of them will never But I save things because I don't necessarily I'm just making things and I might put I might take it out and look at it, and realize that So that's an example of an unexpected path. What I'm always looking for in the So my films, even the ones that have sort of are not really narrative. They're actually sort of... they're like circling a central poetic idea. And the process of making the So that's a little bit what I'm gonna talk about. And when I was trying to think of a I was thinking about Henry a poet, a philosopher, writer, a naturalist, in late 19th century America. And he actually lived not far from where I live now. He lived in Concord, Massachusetts. And he's best known for this book about living I've walked around Walden Pond, And they have... sort of a whole But his writing influenced a And I find it very evocative. I'd dip back into Thoreau for a couple He was, primarily, a writer. And he gave lectures. which was also an essay, he developed was called 'Walking'. And it was through the natural environment And this seemed, in some ways at least that I face, when I create work. So there were 3 concepts in And in particular, this essay called 'Walking'. One was the idea of Sauntering. So, walking is the act of putting It describes the kind of physical Sauntering is a little bit the attitude And the idea of sauntering is that and that you're experiencing the process you're thinking about what you're seeing. Another idea, is the idea of the Unknown. So he says, we require that there be an Unknown. And so making a film for me is always And it really has to be unknown And the last idea is this quote, 'In Wildness is the preservation of the World'. And it's been interpreted in a lot of different ways, because the first one is a verb. It's the act of walking without The second word is a noun, it's a and maybe, get lost in. And the third, is an attitude. And that actually, was the most important concept this attitude of Wildness. So when I was thinking about how I work I was thinking about what because I think it's appropriate in So this is just a separation But that's just to get us started, So, I wanted to try to actually because I realized that they define the way that I work, So the first idea I wanted to break down, And I was thinking, well, what is Wildness? And I think I am interpreting it in a way but what I was thinking of as an attitude of allowing things to be what they are, that don't depend on your defining them. In other words, it's something it's something over which you and you have an encounter with it. So when you go into nature and a landscape or a creature, that you're experiencing, you didn't And you had to enter that So my films are really, basically, made So wildness not in the sense of but with the attitude of allowing without my having to define it. And often I can't even define it afterward, of trying to discover it. And so, by doing that, I'm hoping And that's what I'm always looking for. So there were these 4 things: 'Instinct and Impulse' I thought as one category 'Accident and Chance' is another. 'Purposeless Play' is a third, and 'Intrinsic Structure' is a fourth. So I'm going to show you a couple of films So the first one I wanted to talk about and this is sort of the beginning of the process. And I was thinking, well, And I was thinking that perhaps what it is, noticing your reactions to things. Even just your physical reactions to things, are the things that actually get your or excite you or spark curiosity... And then, where do your What does an inspiration cause and to actually pay attention and then to respond to it. So not just simply having that experience, by responding through making something, which is actually where the process So this is a film, a short film I'll show So that film grew out of, basically, an accident. And in fact, that's how almost It's actually from something I didn't intend. And very often, it's when I'm trying to that I accidentally do something else and and make the thing that was the accident. I was working on another film idea and I so I had India ink and I had a rag, but I was just frustrated, so I took the ink, I poured it on the rag on a piece of paper, and then I looked at it and So then I forgot what I was and just laid out paper on the floor, and I had a matte... And I just thought 'Okay, well, so that I know where the frame edges are.' And I just took the matte and just painting, almost like an action over a sequence of about 80 sheets. And with no intention of animation, And so my reaction here was that when I I realized that I made something And I like the sort of almost abstract expressionist So I just continued doing that, and made lots and lots of sequences. And I just organized them in I wasn't trying to make them into animation. That's a closeup of what one of them looked like. And when I looked at these individually, but I liked the edges where the ink And that was also something but it was something that I was interested in. And I was thinking, well, maybe So I brought those ink paintings into and I think a theme that's come up numerous times I don't know if it was Paul (Prudence) who and I think he's right, Blending Modes are very simple to use and they So I was layering these with blending modes and getting even more interesting but they were still horizontal And I didn't really know what I showed them to my wife, and she said 'Well, why So I did, and then there was And then, once there were 2 images up there, that was when I realized I had a poetic idea. So up until then I had been sort but when I saw the 2 up there together, And I found a poetic center. And in this case, it was the idea a dance, an argument And that's how I could then with this idea of the 2 having So that's how I actually organized So that's an example of noticing my So that's why I put it under this category. I'm going to show another one now. and then I can talk briefly about it afterward. So that was another film that Again I was working on another film that I and so in frustration, I picked up a piece of black cardboard and I had a down shooter, you So it was a camera pointing down and I just picked up the cardboard and just Like I, said I was frustrated. But then I noticed that there were being made by the black And so again, just like the last film, I forgot that I had intended to make and ended up making something So I got very fascinated by that So I just took 5 frames of that... 5 or 8 frames of that, while I was I just took like a little 8-frame burst of so it was a sort of jittery motion. And then, the entire film was just made There was no additional artwork made, And I just really enjoyed figuring out of that jittery shape and So I did that in After Effects. I just again using blending modes, And then, what I came to as the kind of was the idea of grief, and longing. So that's what I was sort of intending. And it sort of moves between, and a kind of hopeful middle, and then, So in this case, that was the... The first film was really about and this film was really about 1 entity being So again I found the poetic idea, through noticing my reactions to developing that until I could find the film. But again, I wasn't trying to make a film, I was just reacting to this piece of cardboard So that was the first category. The second category is 'Accident and Chance'. And again, like I said in the beginning, I think much of what I do is an and to allow the work to come out, And so I've often had to invent because it's hard to trick yourself. So you have to really invent things to do so. So that's where this second category I actually develop techniques and that's often using elements of chance, And so, I was thinking And one thing it means, just following the kind of rule and not judging the outcome, but just Like I said, inventing ways to make those So first, you don't edit anything out and then you look for the things that So it's not really a process of winnowing away, and allowing what's best in your accidental I'll show another film and talk about And this film is not abstract, visually. but I think it's interesting to show some in the context of the abstract work, because in terms of 'looking for the center'. The limitation I created for myself in was to just use 2 or 3 well, it was more than 2 or 3, it was a certain number of pages long long before, with absolutely no But I just took them out and said 'Okay, I'm So I had to actually figure out how a kind of narrative arc, but all from the limited So again, I wouldn't have made that limitation and task. And here's a second example of of creating limitations in This is called 'Strange Fish'. That film actually came as a about evolution, written by Stephen And it's about the exploration the Burgess Shale, and what they was this evidence that about 450 million well, geologically speaking, a huge and sudden So the Earth had a few life forms And then, because of whatever conditions, life just exploded into many and it was a time of experimentation in evolution, and others did continue on And I got really interested in this idea of how accidental, in a way, evolution is, where it's but is just a series of contingencies So I was researching that and I was looking at the fossils. That's just a diagram of the explosion of life. But I also was looking at all of these fossils, I loved the shapes of the animals and I loved And so I began drawing them. Again, I wasn't intending to make a film, I was So I just started drawing these animals, And they were really interesting, but you know, that was only But then what I did, just on a whim, was I started drawing them with my eyes closed, and began to get some really interesting So these blind drawings became And I just kept doing them And then what I did was, So I had my eyes closed for about a month, and then I just began in-betweening between these different blind drawings, to between each of the animals. So this is examples of some of the And then I put them together, these shot them, put them together And there were a couple of things one was that these drawings were like my just as those animals were fossils I just thought that was an interesting, So that meant, that when I shot the film that these ink drawings were So, you know, scanning over, having and coming to an animal, was my that the ink on paper was a And that my method of drawing was actually a corollary to So those are some examples of how either by limiting the number of pieces or by creating a rule for myself like by keeping my eyes closed. The next category, 'Purposeless Play', is just basically, again, using limitations, You actually need some kind Then, being curious about what you're making, actually finding the things that do spark I have a couple of films to sort of related So that film, the limitation, the sandbox It wasn't actually this drawing, because I couldn't I just drew a bunch of letter forms, sort of and that one piece of paper then And the rest of it was playing with those. So that was an example of giving yourself and maybe that's why I was And a corollary to that, is this film The limitation there was that there was made by my daughter Hannah, She studied ballet intensively, in response to all the practicing But the drawing had this really the limitation I gave myself was, I was and then 2: every single character is actually taken from either her childhood So that was the limitation there. within which I created the animation. And again, I had no intention I've never had an intention of where I'm going, and if I ever have had an I'd never finish the film. The last category I wanted to mention So when you're trying to you're making things and you're trying one of the things that happens a kind of internal logic to the So you might find that the or the animation that you're creating, that then reveals or supports the But you don't necessarily have that structure Just sort of creating loosely, improvisationally... and then, eventually, working through the process of editing because when you put 2 shots next maybe they suggest something, and you try something else, and then you realize but you need to do the process of the editing And so I'm going to show a couple of films. This one, the sort of logic that came out of making So, emptiness and trying to fill the emptiness was the The the idea of the film, the internal logic I had drawn all these parts of bodies... I had drawn them for other... just drawn them. and there was no torso, there was no then that became the logic of the film, in the center of the character. So that And these are just some images of, you know... in rural America. These are some I didn't make them at the same time. And then, putting them together into And then this film is also another of this idea of looking for intrinsic That film, actually, started as a commission an opera buffa, a 2-act comedic opera. The music was by Darius Milhaud, And it was based on a play, which The funding did not come through for And the story of Queen Esther is and it basically tells the story about how from destruction through a series of court One of the things that was interesting about this, was the idea that... that's an actual scroll that tells the story of Esther, So it's pulled out and it travels from and then as you're reading it, when there are kinds of decorations around that part of the story. So I wanted to create an animation that had the idea of moving from left to right, So that's what I did, I created all from scene to scene as always and then, when you stop at a point, through the vignette of the leaves. And in addition, that kind of made And a further idea, again, that kind is that the leaves of the tree so they don't actually have any agency of their own, And in the story of Esther, but there's implications in the story so that was another kind of intrinsic through my methods in the film. The next section... I wanted to I make all my soundtracks. I collage them from various sources, and others are sources I find. But I collage them all to create the soundtracks. I also make the soundtracks so the picture is completely So the sound then becomes almost The sound is also really important, So the picture has a life of its own, but the of meaning to the sound. And I think one of the reasons I is because it takes me the length to figure out what the film is actually about. And then I can go back in the soundtrack certain parts of the film that I think So I think that's why I make the sound second, to figure out what it is that I'm actually making. So this film that I'm going And the whole film was made just from to make one little clip of animation. The whole film is just made So it's like 'Edge', where I gave myself very And then, when I went back with the sound, It's not one of the 4 categories, but Sound is And in that case, I felt that I really when I began to work on the sound for it. I'll just end with this thought from Thoreau: 'Not till we are completely lost or turned around, That's a little bit the theme of what I'm you can't direct yourself... but I can't direct myself with I really need to enter this uncharted territory, I need to allow anything to happen, and I then play in that area with what I'm finding. And then I begin to look for the in the materials I'm playing with and then I begin to put it together. And only then do I figure So the making of the film is the So I'll end with that thought.