People used to go to school to learn how Today, everyone needs to learn This is the huge difference in the world, the first thing The role of a person in the world So that's why what the world needs now how to come up with their own way of Hi, I'm Po-shen Loh. I'm a mathematician. I'm a math professor I'm a social entrepreneur, International Math Olympiad team. If you have six match sticks, how can you put them so that they make four triangles? Four triangles is the same length as the matchstick. So if you have six of them, three of them like this okay. But then you only have three more. Now what? Okay. It turns out that the answer is that you and then you use one more up here, That's thinking outside the box. Because this is not just on a piece of or six toothpicks, I've done lots I teach people all the way from I will also go to schools and teach sixth there might not even be any math teacher So I go and cover I find this to be very interesting what the challenges are. The whole point of a school math test and you practiced. In fact, all the math competition problems of the world are of this type. Which is why today, the way is to try to help as many people as which they won't have seen before. But I want to emphasize the reason I've is because when I was doing the way you got good at it was by thinking to practice mental flexibility. Today, unfortunately, preparation and cramming where people try on these strange math questions by showing that you might possibly see. And that involves studying so that the hope of the parents is that they are never surprised that they have By the way, as you may know, this causes and after school and so many others. It's actually very bad for the student, the student's chance to invent. Money doesn't buy you happiness, but money So in fact, it's very important are capable of generating enough money This just happens to be what drives me. Ten years ago, I had this crazy idea collect people's ways of explaining math would explain the math and science topics would be able to learn math and science. And I remember thinking, We'll be done with that in a few months. I'm glad I thought that So I had this whole thing called XP. with free explanations, but that didn't It wasn't generating money, so I had In 2019 and April, we started creating States of America, where we took charge had a product which consisted of me recordings of, and they would pay for it. And this, this made some amount of money. But then this one, And finally, about two years ago, What people really want with somebody else who is an expert. The only problem is that's And there's also another challenge, you're talking to is friendly. If the person knows a lot that's actually not useful either, right? This is the hardest thing to deliver in Of course, in entrepreneurship world And yes, you can find one brilliant coach or maybe even even 100. That's a small scale And then that's when I suddenly realized So the main thing It's actually an ecosystem that I types of people to all contribute in ways One pain point, Then the second pain point very strong at math already, from which Although I do want to emphasize to become extraordinary. And the thing that made me realize everything together, was an experience which is that I also took improvizational comedy classes, our acting classes. And I was doing that because I was trying to get more people interested in math. But I realized that even a math nerd become able to talk to a few more people. So then I realized, let me add that. And then I walked over to our drama there are lots of people who are actually, indeed very interested to help to coach the high school students. So that's the third pain point. The third pain point is there are people they're passionate about what they're But there's a practical need, part time job, flexible hours passions so suddenly win, win, win. We have all three lined up. Actually, the everyone winning because I work with high school students. And so in our in our company, any time to do anything, my answer to my employees that high schooler to do. Can we explain to their parent why? For a very busy high school student, they can do with their time. If I cannot explain that, So this is the discipline This is this is how strongly We will never have a high school could explain myself to their parent. We suggested for your daughter to do this really good for her to do this. The thing is, beforehand it was hard to until the answer became oh yeah, learn from a Broadway or Hollywood quality become extraordinarily successful now. But you see, this took eight years The speed at which we grow is purely who have middle school children to realize where the class looks as good as by math geniuses who are smiling. You know, these are things would put all together at the same time. And as people discover this, They start joining our classes. Then we can bring And the scaling power I estimate that this easily could grow in the US. That's 1% of the US about a million middle school students. If you look at our live program, see that the only subjects that we teach geometry, combinatorics, number theory. Why do we cover these? We cover these that teaches you how to think the. Only way to do that is by giving in school before. So I need to find a source of problems Actually, that turns out to be the middle because the people making those problems that you don't see in school. But the difference between the way we do centers do it, is that we are trying to make you able to practice the thinking, the question that way enough times. So the answer is the topics because that will be enough to teach Our philosophy is if you finish that you can learn anything. Our goal is not to make it for every year of your life. Our goal is to make it so that as fast from anyone ever again. Today. Everyone needs to learn This is the huge difference in the world, the first thing Let me make this analogy stronger. If we look at any good software engineer, if they're given a task that they have is to think about some similar problems examples they don't expect that will give but they use this to research what kinds But as ChatGPT suggests, the solutions analytical thinkers to understand whether So that's why what the world needs now how to grade homework, for everyone to thinking, not just how to do the problems. My general philosophy is when you and you should not be repeating. In the real world, If it's repetitive, you should get ChatGPT or a computer to do it. But in order to know how to control you need to learn how to think. And that's the purpose What I do for fun is I like to meet backgrounds I don't fully understand yet. This is actually what I do for fun. I happen to be talking to you The way I got here overnight You know, some people don't take who you're taking the bus with. But for me, That's just called real world. You can't understand the real world into various parts of the real world. I think my message of how to create value if you don't interact with people. You cannot just theoretically And the more people, People of different backgrounds of how they tick, what are their needs, What do they want to do? The better you are at modeling this, at coming up with a solution. I started going to city after city after I actually set a schedule. I put a schedule on my website, cities, and people could just sign up And at the beginning, people were But actually there would be showing up at these talks in parks. And by the way, that was a fun journey I was traveling around from park to park and everything to be able to have a stage But while doing that in a inadvertently, able to suddenly interact with and talk which started to make me realize And that's why just a probably about 1 the big idea came the big idea of, middle school students who I've met. They can all learn While these people who are brilliant so that someday later in their careers So that was that was the idea. It was like, somehow you if you're not seeing people. That's also why with a lot of the work I love to work on education, and I do it I was writing to somebody who is involved and their schools, I believe, Now, instead of just putting money what I said is I'm very interested. Can we arrange for me to go into some What I'm explaining is that the way I do I go and myself step in and start And this is actually how I came up the ideas that I'm doing are all things I've experienced being a math person, I've experienced being a person, who knows a lot of things and also smiles. So all the different parts Now I can understand why you identify you Yeah. We're not doing a very good job If our goal is to solve the customer's But this is what we want to do, right? This is also why, if you ask me, My definition of success is not just My definition of success is a huge number of people on this earth I love the fact that entrepreneurship So the message that I've been sending of AI is going to be a Wild West. There will be lots and lots The people who will be very good at creating value. Actually, in my public talks Everyone should be They can be an entrepreneur, which is a word in English that we new things within an organization. But the whole concept of creating value in helping the society survive into this age of AI, into this new world.