With the capture of Alexander's corpse by the aftermath of the Partition of Babylon were conflict. While trying to maintain the facade now building their own power bases and launched the self-appointed guardian of the throne of demanding Ptolemy's slight be corrected. The Antipater, and Krateros called foul of his actions thousand nations of the Achaemenid Empire and the were mustered and horizon-spanning armies marched and the skies above had begun to thunder at the on the Wars of the Diadochi, looking at the First This video is made available for free thanks to content through our program of exclusive who get two documentaries per We've got a growing collection featuring the Italian Unification Wars, Xenophon's Anabasis. We're now covering the to mention our massive Pacific War week by week All this is made for, and with generous enjoying our content and want to both see consider becoming a youtube member or patron. a spot in our lively discord server, We rely on our backers to support our so thank you to everyone already involved, FIRST MOVES OF THE FIRST WAR: joined Antipater after receiving incriminating that he was scheming to discard his wife, to marry Alexander's sister, Kleopatra. Even as did Ptolemy, due to frictions in personal spurred Antigonos to begin to muster his troops thus commencing the war. On his end, who had received and subsequently tamed was allied with him, as were some other generals henceforth known as Phillip III, was likely Eurydice. The tale of how the couple married here. Eurydice was the daughter of Alexander's Cynane, and King Amyntas IV. Cynane had already of Philip's ascent, but Perdikkas, terrified the fierce princess could assume an active sent his brother Alketas to confront her. Alketas but his troops, disturbed at the death of a royal Eurydice to be married. Cynane, Eurydice and Kleopatra were fearless and scheming in their been less decidedly patriarchal, they might BATTLE OF CAMEL'S RAMPART, Perdikkas' Death: Asia Minor. As Eumenes was in Cappadocia it was Krateros and Antigonos. He himself assembled his expecting this and, using his newfound resources borders of the Nile. Perdikkas marched through lands of Ba'al and Elohim, moved down to the Sinai Pelusium, on the easternmost river bank of the Ptolemy, who ran the central command, were poised Apophis. Garrisons were staged across the river, major Ptolemaic force was mobile and ready to move to look for a good place to cross but could find from across the Nile. Perdikkas understood that if things would escalate, and the war would he chose to become Apophis and, channelling the under the cover of darkness to find a place to night, the only light came from the moon, as and Arabian Goddess al-Lat all were playing Senet All night, the army of Perdikkas marched until where a small garrison had been placed in Khonshu, and al-Lat departed to greet the Perdikkas assembled his forces and attacked while the Silver Shields were straight behind, Perdikkas himself was at the rear flank with combining the might of the elephants to pressure scale the walls. However Ptolemy had managed to and the wings of the Egyptian Goddess Nephthys. the attackers back. Perdikkas, ever desperate, the Camel Rampart's walls. After multiple waves high casualties on both sides, Perdikkas decided for his crossing. He eventually found the site of river banks, but the current and depth made the forth his elephants in a line next to the islet and in front of them placed the cavalry to pick up march to the island, and initially, some of them of the river almost made the elephants and horses to the shore. A large contingent of the force was them back through a much deeper Nile. While some Caligula would centuries later, Perdikkas The campaign to recover the body of Alexander in was in complete chaos, and perhaps understandably, chief allies, such as Antigenes, Peithon, and criminally incompetent. Seeing that the soldiers to restore order the only way they knew how, unceremoniously ending the life of the regent Diadochi. Perdikkas was ultimately a competent both court politics and in putting down rebellions alongside Alexander. But, in the end, he could not Hellenistic generalship. The three generals return to his newfound Empire and eagerly begin On the northern fronts, there was absolute chaos whose sailors saw Perdikkas as a weak and to the European side of Hellespont to help alongside other generals, were not and a certain Neoptolemos even mutinied. He and marched to join Antipater. After receiving himself going east and then south towards fight Eumenes. Eumenes had some local troops under who amassed his cavalry and a certain Phoenix while Krateros and Neoptolemos also BATTLE OF THE HELLESPONT: troops was helpful for Eumenes, but he also knew feared Krateros, a notorious general and skilled flank of the Battle of Issos and participated in way to India, where he commanded the rear in the while likely unknown in detail by the soldiers in knew that a fight between Macedonians and devised a plan worthy of Sisyphos. When the famous Battle of the Hellespont, Eumenes lied not be fighting Krateros but Neoptolemos, whom Thracians and Asians, who had no respect and positioned them all as cavalry on the This was unusual, for this position was who saw it as an honourable position. of a small contingent of Macedonian phalangists them. Eumenes himself went in the right flank On the other end of the field, Krateros placed wing flank, with a large core of Macedonian in pike formation, while Neoptolemos was on Krateros is said to have marched forth Eumenes commenced his double flank assault. The while Eumenes went forth to face Neoptolemos. The Eumenes' side heard Krateros's voice. Krateros horse and being trampled or merely dying from of the great general, causing his cavalry flank to Eumenes and Neoptolemos's troops were engaged to fight each other. Eventually, they saw each battle, the older and more experienced severing the generalship on both sides of the more. The Macedonian enemy troops joined him and a choice to join him, but soon after, they THE PARTITION OF TRIPARADEISOS: Ptolemy in the end, and the three generals were to get Ptolemy as regent, but the founder of solve this impasse, as well as acknowledge the the Partition of Triparadeisos of 321BC, when the in modern-day Lebanon. A key unresolved issue at but we will get to that later. In this conclave Seleukos, who had managed to secure his position, of Eurydice, Philip III was made co-regent Alexander IV, was to move with his mother to Pella which would serve him well in future endeavours, multiple Anatolian satrapies, and other less maintained their satrapies. Antigonos, was also entrusted with one more task: defeating from Triparadeisos and moved back north to BATTLE OF ORKYNIA: an increasingly isolated Eumenes was desperately an obvious choice despite their differences, partnership with him. Unfortunately, both wished Eumenes left with his troops, presumably after Alketas's camp. It was now a deadly game where the Ghosts of Xenophon's Ten Thousand the shade of Kroisos. Antigonos continued mysterious place called Orkynia, Eumenes the sly old fox Antigonos was not going to We know little about this specific battle, typical formations of cavalry on their flanks and Antigonos elongated his phalanxes by having of Eumenes to think that the Antigonid army had of reinforcements. As the armies prepared to Apollonides, his cavalry commander from the The Antigonids routed the Eumenidian force and Eumenes and his remnants escaped and went to he was chased by the elder Antigonos, but even going so far as sending a secret message to their baggage so Eumenes's own troops wouldn't get reached Nora and hid within its walls. Antigonos was still another remnant faction to deal with: to continue the siege and went West to Pisidia BATTLE OF KRETOPOLIS: the so-called Battle of Kretopolis, but there a relatively consistent play-by-play. Alketas, as were amassing their forces to try and gain a pass near Kretopolis. Antigonos' forces consisted elephants, as opposed to Alketas's forces, which Antigonos's army managed to march through most endurance and discipline. Antigonos's troops, arrived so quickly that the enemy was completely were the first thing the Alketas troops heard, and Antigonos seized some nearby hills and and Dokimos formed in their phalanxes, but summitted the hills on the ridge and was possessed of Herakles' strength while took 6,000 cavalry and then charged down from the crashed, and Alketas was defeated. He ordered the sustaining heavy losses. The Antigonid the Perdikkan force, and the Phalanx had no desperate and difficult decision; to surrender. to the city of Termessos. However, the local so Alketas committed suicide. The Perdikkan EUMENES'S NEGOTIATIONS and Conclusion: remained trapped in Nora, struggling to find a the full might of his armies, but continued to Eumenes had maintained a strict fitness regimen despite being outnumbered and trapped, morale of negotiations, but eventually, some sort of with details of peace deals for Eumenes. thinking him a skilled general to have by his where Antipater had moved back to, alongside and the family of Alexander, including his widow at Pergamon at this time. The messengers reached had died at age 81 and had chosen Polyperchon regent. Kassander was angry and demanded the with new alliances, was about to begin. titanic whirlwind, with one more partition, the and absolutely chaotic geopolitics. This was of nations of the former Achaemenid Empire were highly ambitious Greek generals. As Kassander all the other Diadochi began to hedge their bets. journey by getting involved in the fight, as was to be even more destructive and chaotic than will take place. The Macedonian generals saw and all wanted to be kings or serve a favourable continue for decades to come, and not even the know what the conclusion will be. This series will make sure you are subscribed and have pressed the subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals