As-salamu alaikum Good evening, dear friends, you are on the channel &quot;Delicious food with Khadija&quot; today I want to bring to your attention a very tasty &quot;Cabbage Pie&quot; on a rich dough. It is good at any time of the season. I highly recommend this recipe to everyone! It turns out very filling and delicious! So, let's start cooking, I wish everyone good luck in the kitchen . 340 milliliters of milk, here we add 10 grams of sugar, add 8 grams of dry yeast, if you are not sure about your yeast, you definitely need to activate them. How can we activate them, mix milk, sugar and yeast. So that all of the yeast granules are submerged. I cover with a film for 15 minutes to form a fluffy hat Pay attention to what a fluffy hat we have formed, the yeast is active, continue to knead the dough, add here: two eggs and yolks of the squirrel together we mix everything [applause] add flour, I have wheat flour, the highest grade, I always sift it in advance, here 550 grams, I don't add all the flour at once flour may differ, we you need to knead a soft dough and now on top of the flour we add salt 1 teaspoon or 5 grams. I also add 80 grams of softened butter here and mix everything well and now for 7-10 minutes we knead the dough like this ... I will now dust about 20-30 grams of flour on the table and knead it on the table. Knead for another 5-7 minutes and put a little flour on the work surface, spread the dough. It is very important not to fill the dough with flour, of course I am guided by sensations. We add flour with care, the dough should lag behind the hands and stick off the surface , it will probably stick, but not much, but it is not ready yet ... knead the dough. The dough is almost ready, a little odorless vegetable oil. and fold it, look how beautiful it is already. It sticks slightly to the hands, but look how tender it is, this is how the dough should be. We roll it into a ball if there is not enough oil, it sticks a little, you can still anoint your hands a little so that everything is unhindered. This is how I usually help with a plastic spatula, collect flour and a spatula into a ball. Everything is ready, at the bottom of the container we send a little vegetable oil with the front part of the dough into the container and roll it into a ball. Now we are sending it for proofing, the dough will be proofed for 1 hour every half an hour, we do a warm-up, the dough should increase two, three times, we send it to a warm place. For the filling we need: cabbage, carrots, onions, sweet peppers and hard-boiled eggs and, accordingly, spices, I have one bunch of cabbage, it weighs 400 kilos, 2 carrots 350 grams, 250 grams of onion, sweet pepper, I took green here it weighs 200 g and five hard-boiled eggs , now we cut everything into strips and fry. [music] Separately, I cut cabbage, onions and carrots, we will fry separately, the onion is ready and now we cut the rest of the ingredients. We don't grind too much so that it is felt in the filling, it's ready .... we rub the carrots on a coarse grater . The carrot is ready to go fry. We put on medium heat, I will simmer cabbage in a saucepan, add vegetable oil and send the onion here, we have medium heat, fry the onion until soft golden brown. Gram 30 I add butter so that we have a cabbage filling with a creamy taste, the onion is already slightly golden with us , a characteristic, tasty smell and now the butter will literally melt and add carrots. When the onion is lightly fried, it is sweet, tasty, when it is strongly overcooked to brown, it is bitter , so do not overcook, add carrots and fry for another 5 minutes, add salt to taste. I add a little curry, ground black pepper , add a little ground coriander along with a little bit of bay leaf and red ground pepper and mix everything well and send sweet pepper here [music] [music] We slightly reduce the fire a little below average and we need to sweat the cabbage for about 15 minutes, cover with a lid. I will also cover it so that it is semi-closed so that the condensate does not return and the filling is not too liquid, cover it with a lid like this, let it languish Look at how the cabbage subsided, we sweated for about seven minutes, I don't want the cabbage to be too soft ... we don't like it when it is too soft .... If you look at the bottom, look at how much moisture and now we increase the heat to medium and do not close the lid, this moisture should evaporate, just stir from time to time Ka the empty is evaporated, the moisture is evaporated and for about 8 minutes over medium heat. Everything is ready for us, at this stage we turn off the gas, let it cool down, put the cabbage stuffing into another container to cool better and add salt and a little more pepper to taste, let it cool , and while the eggs are cut into cubes not finely [music] Done, mix everything well, if you have green onions, you can add a little green onion, or cilantro. The filling is ready, it just needs to cool down to room temperature, and in the meantime, I'll do the punching of the dough. Sprinkle a little flour and spread the dough. Now we divide into three parts, most of us will have a base, an upper part and a little for decoration Roll into a ball, I grease my hands a little with vegetable oil and roll it into a ball We send the prepared balls to a plate, let's give another 10 minutes distance . The balls rested and now we take the largest ball, this is the base, dust it with a little flour and roll it into a layer, I will adjust the layer in shape, don't need to roll it too thin so that it doesn't stick .... dust a little with flour, but don't overdo it with flour, otherwise the dough will be dense . This is the thickness it should be, not very thick and not thin, ready and now we literally dust a little flour, since now we will add it all up and transfer it to the form. we distribute And so everything was distributed and now we definitely monitor the corners so that we don't have a thickening of the dough on the corners, we go through the edge of the form. I'm palpating everywhere, it seems to be the same .... and lay out the filling all, mix it well, lay it out and distribute everything. Such a noble pie turns out, a lot of filling. So, we have plenty of fillings, open the edges a little like this , the upper part now when we roll up we will completely close the pie. We have a closed cake, very beautiful, curly will be. From above, this is how we squeeze, this yeast dough will fill the voids and the filling will not pour out, we also dust it with flour so that it does not stick and roll it out. Obiazatel'no podpyliaem mukoi , ia konechno delaiu na glaz drozhzhevoe testo ono ochen' blagodarnoe, elastichnoe ,tianetsia... Ne boites', esli u vas poluchitsia malen'kaia forma podpyliaem mukoi, potomu chto ia seichas budu vyrezat' i mne nuzhno , chtoby u menia ne skleivalas' sverkhu tozhe , sovsem chut'-chut' proidus' vot tak slegka , legkoe napylenie muchnoe sdelaiu i teper' ia planiruiu sdelat' znachit zdes' rozochku s lepestkami i sdelaem uzory po-raznomu konechno zhe gotovim vy smotrite kak vam nravitsia ia delaiu nadrezy samuiu dlinnuiu chast' i s drugoi storony gde-to otstupaiu 2 santimetra chtoby udobnee bylo viazat' poltora santimetra do kontsa i seichas nemnozhko vot tak rastiagivaem, chtoby ne prilipla i nachinaem viazat' vot takim vot obrazom , sil'no ne tianem chtoby ne porvalas' Vot tak u nas krasivo poluchilos' i zdes' zashchipyvaem , chtoby nazad ne vernulas' viazka i teper' to zhe samoe delaem i zdes' tianem vse ochen' legko i prosto. You don't need to have any special skill here, just stretch it like this, stretch it a little and fix it with flour so that it does not disperse and we do the same, so that I do not stick together, I grease my fingers with flour. We dust it with flour like this, everything is ready , we still make such a plus sign with scissors in the middle, if we have a rose and now we lightly dusted with flour to make it easier to assemble, we quickly do everything we assemble and lay out a little bit stretched ... We distribute, pull out a little corner it will look prettier and now I roll the shoulder blade in flour and now we lightly press it down hard do not press so that two tests of the base and the top are connected to each other and just the pattern is also revealed . Now, if you don't have enough flour somewhere, it sticks, you definitely need to add flour. We already have such beauty here, I'll tweak it a little more so that everything is beautiful and now dust the last part of the design with flour, roll out the circle. If you are too thin, make your leaflet not hold its shape. This is how my mother made the leaves, put them on the pie and the second one ..... such a beautiful sheet. Usually, with such leaves, my mother and I closed the errors on the pie. Where we didn't really like it, we closed it and look like this, lay out the leaves. and we still have a small ball from it, too, we roll it out. Please write in the comments from which country you are watching us , it's very interesting to me .... I welcome everyone to our channel ... Thank you very much for your support, my dears !!! Seichas takzhe vyrezaem eshche dva listochka , etu chast' ostavim na seredinku takzhe formiruem listochek I vot tak raspravliaem , chtoby krasivo smotrelsia nash listochek , seichas podpyliaem mukoi i prosto raskatyvaem [muzyka] Liuboi kruglen'koi formochkoi vot tak vot vyemkoi vyrezaem nakladyvaem drug na druga razrezaem popolam i snizu prizhimaem, u nas poluchaetsia takie krasivye dve rozochki i vykladyvaem odnu rozochku s odnoi storony i vtoruiu s drugoi U menia ostalsia eshche vot takoi kusochek testa , ne propadat' zhe dobru ....razrezaem popolam, sil'no ne rastiagivaem , ia pridaiu formu i tochno takzhe delaiu listochki i vot siuda nakryvaem plenkoi i dadim minut 10 otdokhnut' seichas budem smazyvat' zheltkom i molokom zheltok i moloko khorosho smeshivaem , gotovo, vse akkuratno, delikatno smazyvaem ia posypaiu kosichku kunzhutom [muzyka] i rozochki Otpravliaem khorosho razogretuiu dukhovku ,budem vypekat' pri 180 gradusakh minut 30 , smotrite po osobennostiam vashei dukhovki , proveriaem zubochistkoi, libo dereviannoi shpazhkoi Pirog gotov, posmotrite kakoi on krasivyi i dadim emu seichas ostyt' Ia nakryvaiu ego polotentsem Itak, dorogie druz'ia , vsem nastoiatel'no rekomenduiu prigotovit' po etomu retseptu !!! The cake turns out very fragrant, tasty, satisfying. Treat yourself and your loved ones, if you liked the video, like, support our channel with a like. Share my video with your friends and relatives and in social networks, if you have not subscribed yet, be sure to subscribe. Don't forget to hit the bell on the right so you don't miss a new video. I do not say goodbye to you, but I only say until we meet again on the channel &quot;Delicious food with Hadidsha&quot; Bye-bye