It's 2024, and I've spent well over the Spotify. One question I really wanted finally caught up to the king of music streaming? six, the advantage for Spotify is playlists. playlists than Apple Music. While both have Spotify takes the repeat one step further with the your favorite music you were listening to in the plus different decade, genre, and mood mixes Spotify's Blend feature to create a customized The number five advantage for Spotify is the artists you've been listening to, maybe one or two great for those times when you want to listen listen to. The DJ will typically start off with then reach back into your listening history as Spotify's number four advantage is it still dominates the industry. Why does this your friends and family are using Spotify. That playlists with them. You can also do things like songs to your Spotify queue, and they don't have that feature. Apple Music also has collaborative a Jam session feature, Apple Music does have a an iPhone can easily control what music to play. advantage for Spotify. This feature allows you integrates with Spotify. Not only that, but it on a device. For example, if I'm playing Spotify Spotify app on my MacBook Air and control what's anything like this. Even though, like Spotify, devices, it lacks this functionality. me is that it has a free tier. Unlike Apple to use it. Spotify's free tier does have you can't download music to listen offline, also can't listen to music in high quality, with friends in real-time via the Jam feature. recommendation algorithms. These power everything the DJ feature, and more. As you listen to Spotify skipping tracks, and adding stuff to your Spotify calls your taste profile. It helps of what you're interested in and how you like to Taylor Swift or Beyonce album. Spotify is likely or Beyonce to you. You also have the ability to like a playlist your kids want to listen to but But what really sets Spotify's algorithms apart up on trends and pattern recognition without a haven't been able to get enough of is &quot;Homesick&quot; in my Up Next queue in Spotify it includes sprinkles in artists I've been listening to a lot kind of vibes with &quot;Homesick&quot; a bit, and then Malone. In contrast, Apple Music, though, took a album on repeat for basically more than a month, queue. Its next suggestion was &quot;Adventure of a listened to in years, though it did include two which is good. But see what I mean about Spotify's you're currently into and listening to and So those are Spotify's advantages, but what about to quickly mention that if you're thinking about service, doing that manually is a real pain. out there that can make that way easier, like the video from Tune My Music, which happens to be this Tune My Music lets you seamlessly transfer your major music platforms, including Spotify and Apple your entire music library between services. Tune platforms, so nothing gets left behind. I was able another with minimal no matches found. It saved playlists when I'm switching between services. But it to sync new playlist additions automatically, it'll keep your playlists up-to-date across feature that allows you to share playlists with can add it to their music library regardless of transfer and syncing capabilities plus its nifty music companion for those looking to switch or You can start using Tune My Music for free today thanks to Tune My Music for sponsoring this video. Coming in at number five is Apple Music Radio. stations you can listen to via Apple Music. Apple anyone to listen to, even if you're not an Apple though, you'll be able to play shows on demand Podcasts app through Apple Podcasts' new channels to Apple Music Radio that much, I will tune into interested in, as well as Elton John's radio hour, my recommendation bubble and have exposure The number four advantage is the ability Music integrates music you purchase via iTunes but Apple Music also lets you import music you import CDs directly into the desktop music app. music streaming services, in general, are great, either due to licensing issues or sometimes the from their catalog off of these services. your local music files into its desktop app, files to a cloud library and then make all of Apple Music does let you do this as long Coming in at number three is Apple Music can download and use with your Apple Music for specific pieces and recordings, as well as in Apple Music Classical will conveniently Apple Music's number two advantage is better part might be a bit controversial, but hear me of stuff you've sorted through and categorized. list of stuff that you've liked and that's all if you're mainly using algorithms and search for matter to you, but as someone who occasionally rediscover music I've added in the past, appreciate. With its classic iTunes interface in you can even add or subtract metadata columns. in general, Apple's app just has a bit more what I'm talking about. While both services have a theirs just works better. It highlights each word you want to sing along in a karaoke setting, Spotify doesn't. It's called Apple Music Sing, of the vocals you hear in a track as you and another example of Apple Music's polish. They're to highlight the album artwork. The only cool Now Playing screen, where it'll sometimes show a cool. But the other reason I'd still give Apple just a bit cluttered with all kinds of content. versus Spotify in 2024 is Apple Music has Dolby your subscription at no additional cost. high-quality music streaming to their service in yet to release that feature or support for Dolby songs available in lossless audio. They use their original audio file. Now, what does this all mean quality is better than Spotify's, though there tell a difference between lossy audio, which means if you use wireless earbuds or headphones, most so you'll need to plug in to enjoy lossless. Apple Music has that Spotify doesn't is where you have a right and left channel, Dolby sound mixers to digitally place different parts of you as a listener to notice things like vocal mix than you necessarily would in a stereo mix. loud because Dolby requires Atmos mixes to be 10 dB quieter than their stereo counterparts. This well as a greater dynamic range, meaning there's the track and the quietest part of the track with mixed to sound as loud as possible. Not all Atmos music have a tendency to drown out vocals with good. Dolby Atmos can make quite a difference for to music on a speaker like the Era 300 I reviewed placement with different parts of the orchestra. Music. Now let's talk recommendations. especially in terms of recommendations? No, but than it was a year ago. For me, I found myself recommendations don't completely suck. I like that streaming. I also love the Apple Music Classical podcasts and audiobooks aren't cluttering the user care more about algorithmic recommendations, and you want your audiobooks, podcasts, and going to be the better choice. for this comparison, which includes the and a Dolby Atmos music playlist I created what Atmos is all about. To see videos about the like the Era 300 I mentioned, you can get to those this video and found it helpful, make sure you hit channel for more content like this. For &quot;6 Months