- It's time to make the hash browns. And the easiest way to but there are a few First, you gotta choose a Yukon Gold because it has so that the potatoes get Now the other thing is I'm Now I scrub the dickens out of them to get all that dirt off. And I'd like using organic But we wanna leave the skins on 'cause they add a hearty flavor. So we're gonna use the food processor to get them nice and shredded. Sometimes you have to cut to get them to fit through that feed tube. Some of these look pretty small, actually. I think they're gonna fit They might be a bit wide. All right, so this is three Now we're gonna use the shredding disc of the food processor. We're just gonna let it rip. (food processor whirring) Last one. (food processor whirring) All right. You always get those few disks but that's okay. We'll just set those aside, All right. Oh, easiest Now back into the bowl they go. Now, in order to get these you wanna soak these shreds for about five minutes. That just really helps rinse so they get crisp and not chewy. (water pouring) You can see that starch coming and getting rid of it will just ensure that the hash browns are good and crisp. All right, so we're gonna set and in the meantime, I'm gonna All right, so here's a and I'm just gonna spray it I like doing it over the sink 'cause it helps contain the mess. (can spraying) All right, this will prevent These potatoes have been so it's time to get them out of the water, and I'm not just gonna back over the potatoes. Instead, I'm gonna lift the potatoes out of the starchy water, give 'em a squeeze, and put 'em in the colander. All right. Now I'm gonna drain. You can It's nice to get rid of that. Just gonna rinse and dry the bowl. And now we're gonna put the but I'm gonna squeeze them extra dry using a clean kitchen towel. So take big handful of maybe a little more, and wrap the towel around it, and then we're just gonna Get all that excess moisture out. That moisture will inhibit This is how you get All right, dried potatoes into the bowl. Right, that's it. They're The potatoes are good and dry. Now time to get them ready for the oven. We're gonna add six Now, I don't often measure olive oil, but for this recipe I because if you add too but if you don't add enough, So six tablespoons is the perfect amount. Next up a teaspoon of table salt. And just a quarter teaspoon of pepper. (spoons clattering) All right, I'm gonna Make sure everything's nice And also continue to do this when you put it on the sheet pan. All right, that looks pretty good. Now time to put it onto the sheet pan. And the trick is here you you just really wanna spread them out. So you can see I'm just over this nice big sheet pan. All right, those are nicely spread out. And again, not packed down. They're ready for the oven. 450 degrees, middle rack, 35 minutes. Oh-ho, look at those! Nice and brown, especially The edges are my favorite part. Now they're not quite done. What you wanna do is That way they'll get nice Second side takes a lot less time. So what I'm doing is I'm using a spatula. Just gonna make them easy to flip over. Oh-ho-ho. I love potatoes. Very German. Wasn't dinner unless there were potatoes on the table in my house. So good. All right, get the last little bit here. It's best thing about hash browns, they're crispy on the edges, but they're nice and tender in the middle. So that dual texture. It's okay if they get a little messy. It doesn't have to be perfect. Ha-ha, nothing but net. (upbeat music) Okay, back in the oven Ho-ho-ho. Oh, the edges are While they're warm, we're gonna hit them with a little more salt and pepper. (pepper mill grinding) (salt mill grinding) Oh. All right, time to serve up. Yes, I'm going for the crispy edges. Now this recipe really will In my house it serves two. My husband and I made a We ate the whole thing. We just couldn't help ourselves. Especially fun if you melt throw a little hot that becomes its own meal. This is the money fork. (upbeat music) Oh, I can eat my own weight in this. This is the brunch of Thanks for watching. What'd you think? Leave a comment below and let me know what you're excited to cook this week. You can get today's recipes and more for free at our website.