- [Snoop] Let me see it, Spank. Throw your daddy a pass. - Too high. - Go ahead. It's too high, but you still gotta try. You're gonna make it one day, baby. - Too high. - It's too high, but you still -- look, watch. See, Snoop used to be little like that, too. Come on. - Too high, daddy. - You want me to pick you up? - [Laughs] - So, listen. Not to be like but we wanted to see if you could give us a tour of the house, just show us around a little bit? - Yeah, I want to show y'all 'cause he's gonna be the first player to come out of junior high - Is that right? - Sports, not music for Spank? - Sports for Spanky Loco. He let me do the music thing. - So, before we go inside, I wanna ask you about Claremont, where we are here. You've been out here, like, - Mhm. - So, how'd you decide - It's just cool. It's low-key, it's away from everything. I can breathe. There's mountains, it's fresh air -- coyotes, there's snakes, lizards. - [Laughs] - [Off camera] Scorpions. - And you can see -- but the ghetto comes for me, look at my house. Somebody - Really? - See? - Snoop Dog get the real deal done to him, too. - Wow. - Out here, we got the back. - Yeah. This is the backyard, out here. - Lil' Spanky Loco, right here. - So, tell me, I hear Spank may be having a brother or sister next year? - Yeah, he got a little He got a little brother coming. That's why he's getting so - Is that right? - Yeah. - So, it's another boy? You know? - Yeah, another son. - It's definitely -- oh, that's great, man. - Yeah, I got two sons that'll be here with me. - Congratulations. - Thank you. And I got also -- you see my other poo-poos over there? - I see that, yeah. - Flip the camera that way for a second. - See, they're not camera shy. - No, they're not. That's Coffee, Scrappy, Cream -- No, I don't wanna go all 'cause they act a fool Them my babies over there, though. I love them. [Whistles] - Some puppies, too. - Hey, baby! They love their daddy. - Did you grow up with a lot of dogs in your family? - I always wanted dogs. - Oh, really? - We always stayed in apartments where we couldn't have dogs. - So now, it's like dog crazy? - I can get as many as I want. Yeah, but the neighbors complain, but you see, I don't pay them no attention. - Right. So, do you want to have a big family? I know, if you -- - Yeah, I wanna have Probably when I finish this - [Off camera] Alright, John. I gotta let everybody know I've been down with the Lakers for years. I didn't just start being down with them 'cause they got [Shaquille O'Neal]. - Wow, this is pretty awesome. - It's the real deal over here, baby. Yeah, right here -- go get your ball. Go get it. Right here, I got the retired numbers, No. 10, Norm Nixon. - Right. - No. 21, Michael Cooper, No. 32, Magic Johnson, y'all know that. - So, half -- sometimes retired, sometimes not retired. - Yeah, but he retired in my book. - Sure. - No. 33, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, No. 52, Jamaal Wilkes. Them my Laker stars, right there. Now, its time for the new Lakers to put it down, and make me put their You know what I'm saying? Shaq, we love you out here and all that, I'm showing y'all how Y'all come ball with me and do it up out here, Dogg Pound style. - [Snoop] It's all in the wrist, Spank. It's all in the wrist. Boy, y'all need to put us in the 'Rock N' Jock' -- - [Off camera] One on one. - Celebrity game. Nate Dogg would come to the game with a brim on. - [Laughs] - Get 15 assists -- - [Off camera] There he go, right there. - Look at him, right there. Look at his attire. There he go! That's my starting point guard, right there. Put us on the 'Rock N' Jock' celebrity team. I'm putting the speech down right now, we need that spot. - [Nate Dogg] And we don't take - Nope, we don't bow down. - We don't need to. - Aw, look at the ball. See, I can't do this. This that Michael Jordan s--t. I can't be on the camera, shooting and s--t. - We all can [laughs]. - [Off camera] Mention that we're going back inside. - Alright, we're gonna go back inside now. I just want to get you to show me the rest of the place, if you can. - Now, I'll briefly show you what's happening on the inside. - So, this is nice. You even - Yeah, them piranhas in there. - Really? - Put your finger in there. - [Laughs] - Nah, I wouldn't want you to get bit. - Kind of like goldfish, for piranhas. - Yeah, they goldfish piranhas. They decoy you. They look like - Living room, here? - Yeah, this my section up here, where I like to get real playful. See up on there, on the top of [the fireplace]? - Right. - I like to go back to the old school with, like, a lot of Black art. Irene, the lady that was in court, she had a shop that she ran and I made it a habit to start buying stuff from her every night. - They say a whole lot. - So, it's kind of like a Mississippi thing. - Exactly, it's a Southern feel. They say a whole lot, and down here, I got my two dogs. - Pictures of me and my girl. This my son's room, right here. It's hot back here. - It is. - See, full of games. - Uh-huh. - See, he's a Steelers fan, too. See? - He is a Steelers fan. He learns well. - Got cars, he got a car - Mhm. - A piggy bank. - He's set up, man. - Balling stroller for my little, next son that's coming, 'cause Spanky didn't ride in that too much. - Oh, he didn't? No? - You know, this room's kinda lavish. Those are his little movies and things. - Oh, yeah. 'Beethoven,' 'Toy Story,' 'Dumbo,' and all that. - So, your other son's due when? In March? - He's due in March, yeah. Everything Spanky can't fit, he get. - [Laughs] - Hand-me-downs, baby. - Do you have a name in or have you talked about -- you guys haven't really talked about it? - No, me and my woman kind of like -- 'bout that name. - Yeah 'cause she don't like what I like, and I ain't liking what she for the benefit of the better, though. - Cool. - Believe that. - Do you wanna introduce everyone, here? - Yeah. Everybody just piled in, man. - [Laughs] - That's my Uncle June Bug, right here. - Say hi to MTV, Snoop's uncle. - I'd like to say hello to y'all. That's my oldest nephew over there. I'm the oldest uncle, but hey, I enjoy every day. That light is blinding me. - [Laughs] Wow, wow, wow. Yippie yo, yippie yay. - Vernell, who you may remember from the courthouse steps? - Exactly, right. - Good to see you again. - How you doin', my man? - How you been? Yeah? - I've been fine, man. - You're living out here in L.A. now. - Right. - Yeah. - Well, out in North Hollywood, really. - So, you're a Detroit -- at least you've been in Detroit for a while? - I'd say 10 years, right. - Right, right. So, it's good to be out, back in -- - Oh, yeah. I'm where I wanna be, in the music business. - Yeah? - Yeah, right. - I want you to give me a quick review of 'Tha Doggfather' album. - Aw man, it's fun. - Four stars, you'd give it? - Nah, I give it five, really. - Because it's something that and a lot of new producers did. - Mhm. - You know, like I said, and -- hey, it's a bump. - Yeah. - It's different, man. Violins, horns, the whole nine. - Compares well to 'Doggystyle,' you think? - I would say it's better than 'Doggystyle.' - Yeah? - Because of the varieties -- different variety of music. - Alright. - Yeah, something the old and young can listen to. - And he's objective, too. He's only his father. [Laughs] - Right. Hey, but I'll give you five thumbs up. - Alright, man. - Thanks a lot, good to see you. - Alright, take care, man. - Appreciate it. - Alright. - So Snoop, let me ask you about these awards. Is this kind of, like, the award shelf up there, on the mantle? - Yeah, I got a couple of them here. I got some, and my mama also has some at my other house, too. - Do awards still mean much to you? I mean, you got so many now, more than you can ever -- - Yeah. I mean, any time you put a new album out, they mean something to you, you know what I'm sayin'? 'Cause it's all about people respecting you, giving you accommodations thinking that you're high enough to receive an award. - [Off camera] Speed. - So Snoop, tell me what room is this, now? - This is the room, like my library, where I come in here and just -- I, like, listen to old school music, or listen to my music, and check it, and make sure it sounds good, unless Spanky come, playin' basketball. What's up, Spank? Come here, baby. Close the door. Close the door, go close the door. This the room where we come, and we just kick it, and just be to ourselves. He just ain't used to all these cameras being around. But he usually knows when I'm in here. That's when he likes to come in here and get with me. - [Laughs] - Sup, baby? - Think he's tired? - Yeah, he might be tired. That's artwork somebody did for me. A lot of people just send me artwork, and I keep it in here. Somebody, a fan drew that for me. Somebody made this for me. A friend of mine, Super, he makes a lot of these for me. He gets pizza pan things and puts a lot of collages in them that means a whole lot. Right here, that picture says a whole lot to me. That's why I got that. It's like a young, Black, righteous brother walking through a gang-related neighborhood, and he's not affected by it, but it's around him. - Something like this, when fans send you things, I mean, is there a room at Death Row [Records], they just collect all that stuff, or -- - It just, it usually comes, and if I come through in, I get it, and I -- you know what I'm saying? I bring it home with me, like that picture of me and [Dr.] Dre, right there. - Right. - A fan drew that for us, as well. - Wow. - I hung that up. - So, this is like the whole Death Row -- - It's the beginning, the first awards I ever got, first plaques I got from Death Row. - Mhm. - And just a whole lot of combination of the building and beginning of Death Row, how it all started. - But everybody says about Death Row, there's a lot more to be written, I imagine, right? - Exactly, there's a whole lot more. - [Off camera] Can we turn on the jukebox? - Oh, yeah. - [Off camera] I'll plug it in. - So, what kind of stuff can be found in Snoop's jukebox? - Everything. - Everything? - Classic hip-hop, classic R&amp;B, jazz, blues, rock, hip-hop, reggae. - Do you have one favorite CD - Yeah. I play -- let me look in there. I play B.B. King a lot. - OK. - And this, too. Nate Dogg, &quot;Never Leave Me Alone.&quot; - [Laughs] - I got this as a gift from Jimmy Iovine. - Really? - Yeah, he got this for me. One love. I sold a whole lot of records. - How are you with the guys at Interscope [Records]? Are they still cool? - Man, I got love with everybody. Ain't got no problems with nobody. Snoop Dogg is the most peaceful individual in the world, right now, music-wise, and you'll hear that through my new album, as well, you know what I'm sayin'? My new album is real calm and relaxing. Did y'all get a shot of the cover? I got a cover of it right here. - Which is not to say that gangster rap is dead? - You're right, it's not. Check this out. 'Tha Doggfather.' That's my job, to keep gangster rap all the way alive, from top to bottom, uncut. In stores now. - [Laughs]