(dramatic orchestra chord) - I'm about to enter the sting (soft electronic thrilling) (Mark exhales audibly) (dramatic orchestra chord) Ah! (Mark exhales audibly) I'm about to enter the bite (soft electronic thrilling) (flesh squelching softly) Here we are in the jungles of Costa Rica for the ultimate showdown between the two most We've got the bite of the leafcutter ant verus the sting of the bullet ant. And I'm here to determine which of these two is Ah! (Mark groans in pain) (dramatic orchestra music) Ah! Ahhh! Before we start our face-off, we have to track down our contenders. First up are the leafcutters, which are famous for slicing up plants and marching the pieces These worker ants carrying the capable of lifting 20 They harvest these parts to use as compost that grows a fungus to including their defenders, Leafcutter soldiers have no stinger at all but instead use their like butcher knives to slice through anything including human flesh. I have personally saw through skin to the bone and that is why it will To find them, all we have to do is follow this trail of ants back to their underground lair. Here we go, this is it. This is the entry point to the nest. You can see the leaves Up in this clearing, there's That's where the soldiers are Oh, yeah, I see multiple entry points. All right, we wanna be around these openings, because as soon as we disturb these ants are gonna swarm us. These colonies can span 100 So that's pretty much here in this clearing. There are millions of ants including those dominant soldier ants. These are the biggest and baddest ants that you could imagine. All right, guys, get ready. (boots stomps loudly) So this is same as knocking on the door, and trust me, you are not welcome. Oh, here they come right Giant soldiers. If you don't pay attention, We're here to collect five All right, there's one. Okay, we got one. We are getting absolutely Look at them covering my boots. All right. - I know you guys, you stand back a little bit. They come outta the hole ready for pain. I got three. - [Andrew] They're all over your boots. Ah, ah, oh gosh, he's already got me. - Four. Ah, one just got my back. They're already up my legs. Ah, (Mark grunts in pain) God, he got me. (Mark groans in pain) Okay, how many we have? I got five, right? Let's get outta here, let's Ah, I got one on my back. Gah! Ah, he sliced my back. All right, seriously. Oh, you got 'em all over. You guys got 'em all over your boots. - [Andrew] Oh, Matt, one One just crawled in your pocket. - [Matt] Ah. Oh Mark there's one your shoulder. - Ah, he's biting me. Look at that. (Mark groans softly) Gah! Yes, they could definitely (sighs) There is no They only mean to seek and destroy. It's time for round one. Let's go to the bite table (bell dings loudly) (air rumbling loudly) All right, welcome to the bite table. Here we have in our jar and oh, boy, are they angry. Let's get a closer look at the business end of (exhales) Man, these ants They are so incredibly strong. Let's take a closer look. Andrew, you got a good shot? It's like having a pair of They are razor sharp. We're going to attempt to recreate a swarm of ants on the top of my hand and then see if I can withstand Please do not attempt to recreate Matt, let's put 60 seconds on the clock. - [Matt] 60 seconds. - All right, here we go. I'm Mark Vins, and I'm with the leafcutter ant. Here we go, on three. One. (soft electronic thrilling) Two. (dramatic drum music) Three. Ah, yeah, that one's got me. (Mark groans in pain) All right, they're all - [Matt] 60 seconds starting now. - Ah! Ah! Oh, they're breaking the skin. Ah! (flesh squelching softly) Man, that hurts. Ah! Ahhh! Ahhh! (Mark groans in pain) Ah, ah! Oh, that kills. Ah, what's the time? What's The time? - [Matt] 30 seconds left. - Ah, they're just annihilating my skin. Just popping holes. Ah! (Mark groans in pain) It's like razor pinches. Ah! They're just like splicing Ah, gimme a countdown, - [Matt] 10 seconds left. - All right, 10. Eight, seven, six- Five, four, don't move your hand. Three, two, one. Ah, get 'em off, get 'em off, get 'em off. (Mark groans in pain) Gah, they won't come off. Ah. Ah, they just bite harder. Ugh, get off me. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ugh (Mark groans in pain). (Mark exclaims loudly) Ah! (tense synth music) (Mark groans in pain) Oh, that was so bad, that was so bad. Ah. Ahhh. So many bites. That was so much more I thought there was no possible way that a leafcutter ant bite could even come close to Bullet ant sting is up next. But that's the most uncomfortable thing I have ever experienced. The sheer willpower to just like look away and let that happen. I hope you guys got good shots because I never want to go All right, let's let these ants Even with fresh wounds on my hand, there was no time for a break. My turn to face, the sting Bullet ants are one of the and are legendary for having in the insect kingdom. Rating above cow killers, tarantula hawks, and the infamous murder hornet. It has also earned itself because the excruciating can last an entire day. (dramatic percussive music) Let's let these ants There you go. Round one of the most painful I've got some battle Now it's time for round two, I've got some good news and bad news. The bad news is, for me, this The good news is we to find our bullet ant. Literally on top of the there is a bullet ant nest I have never seen this before. All I have to do, give a Check this out. Oh, here they come. Can you get your microphone close? Hear them making their battle cry. (ants hissing softly) Oh, they're angry. We just need one ant. Here we go, oh, we got two on there. Oh, let's see if we can All right, oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. (Mark blows air frantically) Oh, geez, that was close. All right, we got an ant. And just like that, we (bell dings loudly) (air rumbling loudly) (Mark exhales audibly) The time has come for Those leafcutter ants meant business, but those are flesh wounds. This is venom. Let's get the bullet ant outta the jar so we can get a closer look at exactly what we're dealing with here. All right, I'm just gonna (dramatic orchestra chord) (dramatic orchestra music) Got it. Oh, man, my heart is definitely racing a million miles a second right now. (exhales) These ants are Some ants just bite, but some ants sting. And this is the king of sting. Ah! Did you see that? Jumped right off the forceps, Be good, be good. Okay, got a better grip that time. (Mark exhales audibly) Whoa, oh, man, okay. - [Matt] He looks angry. - Very angry. The poneratoxin in this ant's stinger is ranked number one on And I'm not just gonna I'm about to take it on for 60 seconds. Oh man, this is gonna be, (sucks in air) this is gonna be painful. Please, do not attempt 60 seconds on the clock. Here we go. Camera's rolling. Camera's rolling. Camera's rolling. I'm Mark Vins, and I'm about for 60 seconds with the bullet ant. On three. One. (dramatic orchestra music) Two. (dramatic orchestra music) Three. Ah! Oh. You see the stinger going in? Oh, you got that shot? Oh, ahhh. Oh, oh, oh that hurts. Oh, the stinger is still in me. Ah! (Mark groans in pain) (buzzer blares softly) (Mark groans in pain) - [Matt] Mark, we gotta stop the clock every time you take it- - All right, oh, man, that - [Matt] You have to hold it (bell dings softly) - Oh, oh, yeah. You can see the stinger going in the skin. You see that? Oh, man. And he's just like working it again. Ooh. Oh my gosh. (Mark groans in pain) - [Matt] 30 seconds. Ah! Ooh. Ah, the stingers in there - [Andrew] Mark, are you okay? - Ah, ah, no. Ah, it's hot. Ah, ah! Oh yeah, you see a Ah, it's getting me again. Ah! What's the time, what's Ah! - [Matt] 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Time. Oh, I'm bleeding where the stinger was in. You guys see that? Oh. Oh. Dude, I'm telling you My arm is on fire right now. (glass clinks softly) (Mark groans in pain) (forceps clatter softly) - [Andrew] Describe the pain. It's hot. It's hot, it's pulsating, it's electric. My skin is just like rippling with pain. You can see that it drew blood. The stinger was in the skin Did you see it pull out there at the end? That was insane. They say it's like being shot by a bullet. This pain is rumored to The sting is getting worse by the second. - [Andrew] So which one's worse? - The acute pain of those This is different though. This is getting worse. Like you could see the redness is starting to really flare up. Like look at all the Wow. In terms of the showdown, I don't know. What do you guys think? What what'd you think was worse? - [Matt] Just based on your (Mark screams in pain) I think leafcutter ant. - I mean, this was no walk in the park. This did not feel good for a second. But those leafcutter ants, that is something I never ever want to go through ever again if I can help it. All right, guys, it's getting dark. Let's release the ant As we made our way back to the nest to release the bullet ant, the swelling and searing And I was starting to think of this ant face versus All night long, my arm was And it took everything I had to hold back from screaming out in agony. I maybe got like two hours This bullet ant sting just For what it's worth, I feel my experience has proved the rumors true. The pain became much more intense And the visual swelling and It took multiple days for all And if it were up to me, I'd rename the species the 48-hour ant. So I had to do the right (Mark inhales audibly) (tool clunks softly) Well, I, for one, am never too proud to admit when I am wrong. And in terms of yesterday's verdict as to which was worse, I was wrong. Look at my arm, guys. I am in so much pain right now. And look at this. The redness extends all the almost my elbow. It truly feels like a broken bone. - [Matt] Wait, wait, Mark. So are you changing the - Pfft, no question, no question. I have never felt pain This is the worst thing I have The bullet ant is the true king This was my first brush but it will be far from my last. Our experiment today was more than just a head-to-head comparison. It was also training. Soon I'll be heading deep into the Amazon to attempt the legendary where I'll place my hands into gloves filled with hundreds of angry bullet ants that could sting me thousands of times. Should I continue forward Tell us what you think in the comments. I'm Mark Vins. Be brave. Stay wild. We'll see in the Amazon. (dramatic valiant music) (soft sonorous chime music)