Chris Heria is one of the first people face of calisthenics with 10 million plus This is basically a collab I never thought would and there's definitely a similarity between climbing and calisthenics, but how similar is it really? Well, we're about to find out as Chris I've been following your channel for so long. that I mentioned Magnus to they're like oh you Yeah they're just like saying how ridiculously strong you are. Likewise. So you're going to try climbing for the first time because you have the strength for it. Appreciate Weak as hell. Weak? Yeah like look at this. and stuff compared to like everyone else need a lot of finger strength? Yeah exactly. So you have to get some rental shoes. Yeah. They're not the best, but I think it's gonna be alright. Work with what we I'm super afraid, but this year on the Vlog I was take this.. after we learn a little bit indoors could do one of the big routes if you want? Yeah I'm stoked to see that. Especially when you're afraid but that's what it's supposed to be right? So you Yep. But you don't do that anymore? No with you that yeah, and plus my goals have changed you know. Okay. Instead of focusing on me I wanted to focus on other people you know. me being the best and trying to like strive Like you may be like to Champion one year or forever. Well you definitely inspired me, I mean you were one of the first people I watched on YouTube. That's of the reasons probably I started YouTube. What, are you serious? You're blowing my mind right now. That's a huge huge honor bro. I don't get starstruck now. No way bro, I love you bro. Dude what the start a vlog. Yeah that would be awesome. For be cool. Riding dirt bikes and jet skies and shit. I'd love that. Hell yeah dude, that's coming soon so stay tuned make sure you subscribe to Magnus's channel for sure. I'm Yeah me too. I'm very curious because I know like normal calisthenics for sure. Yeah it's just scale over there? Green is the easiest. So you start the last hold at the top. You want to stand on this. A lot of beginners will stand like this but the wall. So your hips are actually like that? Yeah very close to the wall always. And don't do too big steps, like try to do baby steps. All right this is exciting. This is my first time let's Easy peasy. Do I keep going? No that's climb done. Level one.. level zero complete. So this one looks maybe a little bit harder. Okay so this is also about finding your route too right? That's why they call it boulder problems, because you're here right. Yeah and then you start yeah. And There you go. You can also put the heel on Come on there you go, match that again and then top. coach man. So that one is a little bit harder than the other one even though their around the same grade. Because you have to figure it out right? Yeah and it's a little bit steeper. It definitely looks harder. But good job though. Definitely made me think right there. can take it. Yeah me too. So the next grade would want to keep trying a few more greens? Do ready? You're the coach. How do you feel is your Yeah that one looks a lot more tough. These are like So it's different from every gym, but since this is the tag you can use this as well to start. And then this is going to..It's all the purples right? Yeah, so this is going to be your first undercling. Oh. You have to grab it like this. There's another side pull, and you have to be a I see that. I would be left foot. like that? Yeah, And now up to the side pull. This one? No, not that one. The big one yeah. How the hell? You can match.. Just jump strength to do this. There you go, nice. You have Just go for it. Right hand, it's good. Good. I was kind To try something hard. Good job. Yeah definitely. little bit. The first thing is to not spend so much time on the wall. You were hesitating kind of. You can just go for it right away, I was kind of scared to jump, but hey we're breaking actually jumped down from up I thought that was like taking this to the next level that would be sick. try the big wall. Oh are we? Yeah. Okay that's gonna Wait let me check.. isn't black the hardest one? yeah we're progressing quickly. Yeah right, let this. It's a lot on the arms. Okay. Then.. yeah you Like this? Yeah come on. There? No, get Yeah I would go right hand first. The first move is the hardest. This one? Yeah. Come on, yes, Come on, yeah there you go and then go right hand. foot up, come on, there you go and then come Left hand on the left side, yeah there Stay low with your feet, just go for And just match that, that's the top! I just drop? Yeah just drop. Dude that's incredible. For the first time that's really good. I mean I tried three times. Yeah but still. I got a good coach man, yeah I'm really really happy about that. Yeah sometimes like you said like like there's nothing else you can do like you can't really step or there's not another step or grip you just have to like jump. Yeah be able to do what you did though, like you just skipped sequences, you campus.. you let your feet go and stuff. Oh is that not good? No it's aware if I was allowed to like take my feet allowed to keep your foot like on the wall. Yeah I were often like just going like this and then it's So you support with this foot, it helps you keep stead. Maybe do another blue? And how long does it take to get to blue for example, like 20 minutes? From the first time you start? Yeah. That can take many sessions for people kind of like teaches you something right? Yeah And now you could probably start trying so kind of look at where you're gonna go. This is a hard blue I think. Like this is probably close to yellow so. So yeah don't even know what I'm looking at to be honest. I would stand a little bit lower for the Match that. He doesn't have to match. Come on Chris, go for the next one, just go for it. Oh man, you want your legs to be yeah just Yeah there you go. And then you Yeah next one is good, it's huge. Come on Come in left hand next to it. Right hand. Nice, come on Chris. Get it with the other Come on, you got it. Yes nice and then match So easy dude, you had power to waste on tha,t that Actually that's what I love most about this. your brain to figure out what the hell am I have saved about 80% more energy on that. Yeah it's pretty pumped. I can't even make them soft right now. It's crazy. I love this, this is a great exercise. But you know what, I have huge respect not only for you Magnus, but for especially all like the athletes in here like They're absolutely killing it and yeah huge it a try if you haven't done it already. Yeah I noticed that. It's a Friday it's middle of the day, I just asked this dude I was like don't people have like work and this place is packed. Yeah. There aren't so many one, it's by the airport but we'll go when you come. Maybe we should open one That would be sick. Should we go for the the bigger one one that I'll be able to grip, this I feel like is more of a factor is it's gonna be the height thing. The heights is The green one is definitely something Jump? I'll lower you down. It's a little bit too high to jump I think. I thought you just jumped and the thing goes like.. Yeah true, you jump out from the wall yeah, yeah you do that. But you're the one lowering me? Yeah. Oh shii. So your life is in my hands. Yeah pretty much yeah. Don't get fatigued bro. Yeah like that. Just pull it all the way above your hips. Should this will be tighter? So how do you feel now, are you shaky? A little of how high I want to go. If I can make it to that You'll definitely make it up to that line. Yeah? Yeah this is way easier than the bouldering you did. It's just like I'll be frozen you know like to go Because you do like skateboarding.. I know like bro everything changes for me. Okay. But that's gonna help me bro. Yeah I'm gonna help you. Let's either I guess right? This is a figure of eight. and then through here. There you go and then I mean I think that's how you do it, I'm not, yeah I think. I'm just kidding. If I don't upload next week.. just subscribe to all the way up here. What no. For sure. I don't think I could to be honest man. I mean it's kind of cliche to say don't look down, but To be honest I'm just gonna go as high as I comfortably Just sit down. Oh shii. Just so you feel comfortable. Yeah okay so this is what would happen to come down? Ah okay okay. All right here we go are Nice easy. Just.. Bro I'm already shaking dude. Don't look down. Yeah, try to straighten your arms. No no come on a few more meters. Let me just try the rope here? Let's see you lower me. You want to lower? Lower it. Yeah, just let go of the wall. Both hands, just hold the rope. Yeah Bro to be honest it's scarier to come down you can make it all the way. Really? Yeah I It's the mental thing dude. So what can you do to Yeah first time I climbed I had fear. I can do to practice getting over that? I think, One step one step at the time and you don't want to be too scared the first time because then you're never going like progression, kind of like calisthenics you Yeah exactly, so what is a good progression for me. I Than what I just did? Yeah. Now you trust your rope like you've already been up there. You know how it feels like. Yeah. Just go a I don't know that, but I do trust you. Come on just a few more meters, yeah really nice. You could just chill there for a while if you want. Okay just try to relax and then Come on I got you. Nice. Holy ___! Yeah just continue, Yeah I think we're good here. You're good Dude, what I'm so stoked I did that. That pass that line I'll be happy. Yeah. For sure dude I know like it's my first day and everything did this consistently even for a couple weeks You'd be super comfortable with the heights. Yeah I'm really impressed with how high I just got. Yeah that was super good. For someone being afraid of heights. Thank you man I mean I have a really good coach. The fact that you were like, oh just just chill and like that helped a lot you know because For a second like oh [ __ ] give get to relax, I get to like you know recollect Yeah. You can notice like I'm like.. In the beginning you were so loose and then and tense. Dude I can't wait to keep going. Yeah you Hell yeah. You think I can make it all the way to Don't stop just never think about how far it's honest? You got a little bit higher than halfway. Come on man! This is so much better. Thank Nice just focus on the technique and the Yeah come on keep going. Just Just take a break there, I mean you're almost You're so close man. Come on. I got a tight rope, nothing's Just relax a little bit, just take a moment, Come on, just one move at the time. Nice. Nice, come on you got it. Just the You got me right? Yeah I got you, come on. Touch the top of the wall. Bam. There you are, nice. I got you. Just sit back and relax, enjoy the Dude I was shiiitng bricks bro. I was scared of 33 so much bro, you don't know what you mentally like I was like ready to quit. too much either because.. You pushed me the perfect courage to keep going. Seriously dude I'm so stoked only gonna level me up bro. Yeah. Damn I feel so Yeah that feels amazing bro, thank you so much I love you so much yeah I'm really stoked on Not as bad, yeah. I was like holy shii what am I doing. I looked down like two times and I was like don't look down dude. That's the worst. All right now we're gonna see some real Pro what lead climbing is you know, so that What to work towards. Yeah exactly. So when Like literally falling off.. Falling off the I'm gonna on purpose fall off the wall. I'm show you. Bro don't hurt yourself. Just to show you that Man he's about to fall for you The boy's flying. So you see here now I have to what you were doing. So you bring the rope with you technically and then clip it in. Bro, Spiderman. Damn let's go Magnus, it's crazy bro That move right there, that's crazy. Are you ready for the fall? I'm ready. Holy shii bro! Yo, what are you doing after San Just to show you that like it's super safe. so good with my friends at Cirque du Soleil going there after this. Oh yeah? I mean if you want we're going next. I wish I had time that would be they take me on there and then like I just watch these guys. That was so impressive bro. I think. I mean yeah if I'm training I'm gonna have to move to Norway for a little swing too I was like oh shii. So now we're gonna sure you check that out. It was such a huge honor. this is not the last collab we did together. starting a series, we're gonna bring you down bikes. You got to come to my gym and seriously that was awesome bro, forever grateful. moment where I wanted to quit and you Bro not many people have done that for me