Today I have a word from the Lord for week. I was meditating on where about God Can Use This Too. This is a I love to preach Bible stories and use the but sometimes I feel like it's good to instruction in the Word of God. Hopefully this our hearts. We're going to go to Philippians daughter's Bible today, so you will notice an I've given all three of my kids Bibles that a Bible and then give it to a kid, give it to than Elijah's and Graham's today. I cycle through me the most. All right. Listen to this verse. I said it's simple, don't disengage your brain, what the Lord is saying here through the apostle The Word of the Lord says, &quot;Therefore, my dear presence, but now much more in my absence--continue trembling, for it is God who works in you to will That's all I want to read today, but I want to so I'll say it, and then you fill at you. Ready? You can play along I'll read the Scripture again for you just Congregation: Out. Steven: Right. I set you up, though. That is everybody wants to believe about the situation or a medical situation or relational tension, word different. I'm going to change just and I'm not going to change the word he could, or he can. But instead of &quot;God will work I'll read the verses again, and you'll just wordplay. I don't just think of that sounds good so you can feel good for a &quot;Therefore, my dear friends, as you have but now much more in my absence--continue to for it is God who works in you to will and Now, as you take your seat, prayerfully &quot;God will work it in.&quot; Praise the Lord Lord for what he's working in. I'll I'm going to have fun preaching was thinking today... Holly was eating this us like tomato soup but her. She just much fun eating that tomato soup I was like, I'm just excited. I've been growing tomatoes, That's how I feel about my sermons and I hope you like tomatoes too. Here we go. writing an epistle to the church in Philippi, Paul is an apostle is the first miracle. Paul, When the Lord wanted to reach the Gentiles, he The persecutor of the church is now one of the God is working in somebody's life. Don't write label on them because this is the way they always they always are, least of all yourself. Don't ever Think about that. He took him from the persecutor someone who understood the system from the inside call you into something you struggle with, because you're most qualified to help somebody else step Gentiles, he said, &quot;I can't call Peter for this. So, it's a miracle that he's an apostle. His been something completely different, and praising him today while we were singing worship if you're watching this online later. because we were praising him because he didn't to explode inside of you when you realize he The second miracle (I mentioned that there have to go beneath the surface to get the epistle... Somebody asked me, &quot;Is that means letter. It's a letter that ended up being in the church at Philippi. It was not It's a miracle this Scripture exists it in. Not a writer's cottage by the sea. Not he wrote this from prison. I because sometimes you get more focused on to do and be, and you start acting like You know, walk into school and start talking faithful child of God, but you get in an would get in an environment and change was also a great multitasker. Y'all say The apostle Paul, while serving a prison sentence, The beautiful thing about this miracle is you an epistle, but let me break it right down that isn't getting better (I want you you can do what Paul did. You can get busy you're waiting for it to change, change. While The Bible says Paul was a great man of faith, him last week, did it? But his faith enabled use the incident... Everything that happens in feel like the moment God is working with me on I used to think that meant God wasn't really it's very interesting how it's worded. Paul &quot;Therefore, my dear friends, as you is definitely not about me. &quot;Always some kind of reverse psychology Paul is putting Later in the book of Philippians he &quot;Y'all stop fighting.&quot; That's in chapter 4. I'm &quot;If you were able to obey not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence...&quot; Think being in prison. He's in a shipwreck. He gets on He's under house arrest for two years, and he Philippians, and Philemon, the Prison Epistles. but we quote them in church. So, where you your darkness has tremendous potential to The Bible says that God, who caused his light into our hearts, and we have this treasure in might be of God and not of us. It's God doing but it was God on the inside of Paul that caused Because he picked up a pen while he was in there, Somebody else needs to be shouting in five else needs to be praising God in 10 years to keep going is in you. Say it by faith. &quot;It's The opportunity is this. Paul says absence is thing I'm going to say all day. One of our staff had written down from the sermons I preached. She In the notes she put, she would work and I'm not going to ask you to raise your heard or does it go in one ear and out in the You start lifting up your hands, but only one But seriously. I'm using it as a joke because I not really my style, because I don't really have me that I did not work through? I don't mean he's not going to check your highlighter colors to pink-only heaven. Oh, pink, green, yellow, The process by which you mix the Word with &quot;What are you saying to me about my situation you filter, and that's the process where to a therapy session where I would work on an I would have a major... I don't want to I don't mean drugs or alcohol in these cases, but whatever I just talked through would be very I brought that to the therapist. I'm like, &quot;I get off the phone my life gets worse.&quot; The Sometimes when it isn't getting better, you you get patience by being annoyed. You have no patient who you are complaining about, and you trainers for patience. I'm not saying we want While you're waiting on God to work some need a breakthrough in your business, I believe you believe for a breakthrough in your marriage, you are believing for a husband or a wife to come I believe with you and stand with you are praying for a breakthrough in the that is struggling now because they believed When I say, &quot;God will work it in,&quot; I thought about how we're wanting God but Paul said, &quot;My absence in this prison Because when you're hearing the Word you're getting it at a mental level, and There's a man in the church right a great tennis pro out here. That's wonderful, until you have an opportunity for integration. challenged or tested and you have to remember So, be careful coming to church, God is going to provide after the peaceful... For epistles. For the church at Philippi, he did but he gave his presence within was taken away from them, his What I'm trying to say is anything in your God is going to release something greater had until you got into a situation where &quot;Continue in it.&quot; Continue to work out. Y'all, I remember the first time somebody called were like, &quot;So, as a lifter, what are your weight lifter, what body parts do you work out on I figured, &quot;Oh, I must be giving evidence that physical frame to the point where I'm to be called a lifter? I'd lifted a lot, but around the house. I didn't tell anybody, but &quot;Daddy.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Lifter. You I was so proud for three days, because what I you would, look at your neighbor and say, &quot;As &quot;What are your splits?&quot; Tell them, &quot;Well, I praise on the mountain; I praise in the valley. I I praise when I've got it; I praise I praise when I faith it. I'm not faking it will form me.&quot; So, let's break it down. The I used to work out, I needed somebody to they were really good partners when I heard What I love about God... A good instructor is of information. A good instructor will You're in a season right now. The Lord know who it's for. I don't need to know You're in a season right now where it is has given you. It is feeling intense something you think you need to much more than my presence...&quot; You have to absence of joy, you have to remember how you have to remember to be a peacemaker. In the God will sometimes take resources away not using. One of the worst things God because they will start stuffing themselves they were that led them to the point That's why the Word says, &quot;When you have for it is he who gives you the power as God's presence provides comfort, absence this home to you. Okay? So just bear with me for My oldest Elijah and I had a great conversation. after Buck and Chunks stopped coming over to help left for college (he went three hours away), I but I wouldn't even put my shoes on or turn the mean, Maverick City and Kirk Franklin. I'd sit there in the silence just cranking out about leaving me, I would send him a picture of your partner. Then I felt better, because we were having this deep conversation one &quot;College is great, but it's hard. I'm He said, &quot;And it's hard because I have to be both Sometimes you got on my nerves, but I needed I've had a Grammy, a New York Times, and all that life when he said, &quot;Now I have to be both of us,&quot; to integration. It let me know my voice is still speaking. It let me know I'm still talking three hours away. &quot;I'm still talking to you even though I'm &quot;I'm still talking to you even though you lost &quot;I'm still talking to you even though you don't God wants you to know, &quot;I'm still talking to a while, and while everybody else seems to be &quot;This is not absence; it's integration, powerful moment of your life to work a word in a journal to write it down but when you This is a practice season for you. This absence I could sit down and get to know your exact but Paul wrote one letter to the whole That's what Jesus said to the disciples. &quot;If I can send you something greater than just Integration. God is doing something greater in greater comes. This is the rhythm of God. I want to study this a little bit as you have always obeyed--not only in my can't get off of this. God said the absence of opportunity for you to get attuned to what you me to be able to effectively minister to you was because it taught me not to need your energy When I couldn't ride on the waves of wave inside of me with his Word. So I came the Word of God because of something that to talk about me or tomato soup or weight I want you to see that the absence creates weird. I don't know if you thought &quot;Work out your salvation with fear and when we give the invitation every week for you Like, &quot;I don't know. I thought I did this when maybe what I did last week canceled it out. right there. Yeah, you can give me another one of 17 of them stacked up at home, but, yeah, give say. Watch this. He didn't say, &quot;Work for your He's not saying earn it. That's contrary to That's contrary to the very essence of to earn a grace that was given from a cross only to integrate what you've been taught, Like Vance Havner said, &quot;Never forget in the Now, fear and trembling is a saying stock, and barrel,&quot; which means everything. saying. It was a colloquialism. When he and trembling,&quot; he does not mean be afraid that He said you're forgiven. You're forgiven. He said It is being afraid to live your life without ever lose awareness of who God is to you and in I want you to work out (you're about to God is working on you, and you are a work finished. There's nothing more to be done. That's worked that out. If you've placed your faith in what God gave you and working it out. That's what grow. Every conversation we've had down here corrected you that you wanted to kill me, but you &quot;Every single one of those things... now that it's not like it was, it gets to you deeper in this season. He did not You are worried about something God has already stop at verse 12 and never read verse 13. Do you right there? &quot;Therefore, since you were obeying is saying. &quot;When I was preaching, y'all were A couple of Tuesdays from now, no matter who keep that same energy, because we had Hispanic, male, and female all in the same church that divides us be greater than a King who defines the world. All right? Over the next two weeks, I don't know where that came from. It just came where this snake came from; I just decided to that feeling came from; I just decided to work it I just decided to pray extra this week, I'm going to need extra grace, so I'm going to The reason you keep worrying about stuff God you keep thinking. &quot;...not only in my presence, but your salvation with fear and trembling...&quot; You like I'm a multitasking preacher. I talk about recipes, tomatoes. I work it all in. &quot;Work Now, if you read that, you will be work out something without God. What gets And I'm not talking about just having all that is good. But when I get overwhelmed You know how there's that line between when you out and you realize, &quot;Huh. This feels kind of where you are in the feeling, read what comes fear and trembling, for it is God who works isn't it? It is God who works in you. Don't forget Don't get so good at trying to figure stuff out according to purpose. The Bible said it according to his good purpose. God starts with the person who will accomplish that purpose, that purpose. That's why you can know God is I will never forget sitting down to work exactly what it was, because I think it's a great ago to interview Bishop T.D. Jakes right here honored to do it. He is my preaching hero. He's even if they're your friend, you still get I was so nervous to interview that man, him. He was promoting a book called and I would work, but mostly I would anything done. By the time I got done being I think I counted 75 note cards of Everybody would say, &quot;Aren't you excited to &quot;Yeah.&quot; Excitement and anxiety can kind of feel the same sometimes. What you call it When I look back on it, I regret all of wasn't even real. The fact of the matter is the book. He wanted me to do it. He could to Oprah. He came to Furtick. He didn't come to feel that way about it, because I thought, The very reason I was stressed was the very reason got on this stage and he sat in his chair and first question to him. Twenty minutes later, I was only 90 minutes. I remembered in that &quot;Oh, all this time I've been thinking about I going to do if my questions are stupid? And mispronounce a word? What if he doesn't to talk to me again? What if I accidentally say but I was just trying to be casual All of this to interview one of the greatest do to be successful in the interview was this. You but between those two nods, he had something in your life today. I don't know I see you playing out the situation over but it's not preparation, because it is eating when I get to that in three weeks, it's going to They are yet toddlers. You have 12 years to dealing with, and by then all of the books will I see you looking at a situation in the I'll tell you why you are afraid. You forgot I remembered, &quot;Oh, Bishop is going to be there. with all of the scenarios you're playing out in and all the stuff you're scrolling through, Well, what are you going to do about it if it is? you're going to have God. If it's a prison, he'll yeah. I forgot. I'm going to have God in it retirement, because I've never seen and now I'm old. I've never seen the righteous &quot;God is going to be in this with me. God God is going to be in the uncertainty. office with me. God is going to be on the God is going to be with me when I make God is going to be with me when I show back up to be with me when I open up my finances myself. I forgot about God. That's why I but I'm not trembling anymore, because My bracelet fell off, but let me work it in. you in this season. It happened, so I might as life you need to stop stressing about at a level I never get stressed about a sermon if I remember, Bishop is pretty good at talking, God is hearing people say, &quot;Life be life-ing.&quot; God so corny.) I think sometimes we take the journey That was so profound for me when I realized and were so stressed, and then you remembered, person you thought of...? Now, there are some remember they are going to be there, and then pills. But there are other people... Like, I when she's preaching or recording, there are She's going over to get ready, and I &quot;I'm good. Amy is going to be there.&quot; She just to think about because she's good at... We've been stuff so I can just focus on what I need to do.&quot; even if Paul can't, even if nobody else does, I only needed three note cards &quot;Worry is a down payment on a problem you may charging you for stuff you don't even need this thing out.&quot; You don't need 75 note cards. I think as simple as this sounds sometimes we should just sit in it for a minute. you're afraid of facing if you knew when they got so big on cancel culture, God said, &quot;How many people were you preaching The Lord said, &quot;Well, surely you can find if they cancel you. The whole earth? You can find before it even happens to you, God I didn't make this bracelet fall off. It just were at Elevation Nights in Oakland? &quot;Oakland...&quot; They're not West Coast When we got to Oakland for Elevation Nights... Now, when we preach at Elevation Nights, like basketball arenas and stuff. They're plays here.&quot; I don't care about basketball. about serving him. No, actually I'm the Rolling Stones were here. That's cool to But when we were in Oakland... I don't heavy jacket that night. I remember wearing and there are a lot of distractions, because are so attentive. Even watching At Elevation Nights it's like a concert are there got totally bait-and-switched. to sit through a sermon. They I am a total buzzkill for the whole room. You know, you have to work around the and chicken fingers. &quot;Does she have a beer while kinds of things going through your mind. You have on these nights, something happens that you can't I was in the middle of my sermon. I was preaching Surprise. I was talking about Peter and John and he wasn't expecting to get healed, but surprise. Right when I'm revving up... All of the lights in the whole arena go out. &quot;Huh, that's weird. They'll come back on I'm not exaggerating. It felt like and the first thing I think the whole audience So I tell them really quickly, I'm standing up there. Ten seconds go by. Twenty doing this since I was 16. I've been doing this I can do this. I can hold this crowd for a it's 30 seconds. It's a minute. You kind of run Then it hit me. &quot;You don't know how long so work it in.&quot; I'm telling you I started preaching about when you're in how Peter and John weren't always at the gate garden called Gethsemane where the Savior of What do you do when you're in Gethsemane and the lights are out all because I don't know how long it's going so while I'm waiting for them to work it out... But there is somebody listening to me who's saying back, &quot;While you're waiting in this dark the next step, for me to give you the next crumb, you the next relationship, for me to turn this &quot;While you're waiting for me to work it out, &quot;For it is God who works in you...&quot; Show them did something. The people had their phones out. I Give him a shout of praise. Are Maybe that's the message God wanted me to at all that evidence. Look at all that strength. Look at all of that glory from It's not what I ordered, but it's what God steps. God is in this with me. Get your pocket the whole time, but you didn't light was absent. The absence became because while I'm waiting for God to work what do you want to teach me through this? I was complaining about something that wasn't and God said, &quot;Exactly, because you got cocky about what you could do, and I needed to success away for a minute so you would pay I didn't even plan for us to do this all but we worked it in. I'm going to give you 24 him, because he gave you one more day. Nineteen And at midnight, Paul and Silas... You know what hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus