Tijuana - Mexico. Just over the US-border. Every day, thousands of people make their Amongst them: Illegal immigrants, hard-partying This strip of border is under close surveillance. Weapons go to Mexico, drugs to the US - a regardless of how tall the fence is. Thousands of people have already paid - with All of these factors make Tijuana one of the Poverty, slums, and drug abuse on one side. And on the other? Mexico's biggest den of prostitution and It's a place where the parties get wilder And yet: Anyone who commits a crime in Tijuana La Mesa! A prison that strikes more than fear into [Voiceover]: Everything is dirty; just sitting ...and one where Americans feel like scum! I mean, I am a United States marine. Over there, I am a hero, over here I am a A self-contained empire. Governed by ONE man. Who rules with an iron fist. [Voiceover]: "I am very proud. This prison used to be notorious." A jail that houses cold-blooded killers. [Voiceover]: I killed multiple police officers, It was obvious that they would have it in Fighting back leads to harsh punishments. [Voiceover]: They just leave us to rot away The inmates? Known for having short fuses. La Mesas' history is peppered with riots And a high death toll. No narration The next rebellion is a constant threat. Keeping things under control is a potentially In one of the toughest prisons in the world. No narration Six thirty in the morning. A new shift is about to start at one of Mexico's of downtown Tijuana. Commanding officer Mario Antonio Meza Flores He's responsible for security inside the And he's constantly in danger. Apart from the Mexican police and justice, else: Drug cartels. Attract their attention and you won't be The morning security routine. Regardless of whether you're a guard or the checks. Metal detector, security scan, and a physical There's no getting out of it. Drugs, weapons, and even cigarettes are all At seven, the guards start to get ready for Their job? To keep the three thousand or so inmates under This involves patrolling the prison and raiding Block by block, the commander's troops tear [Voiceover]: We're mainly looking for weapons First things first: The morning briefing. The guards are equipped with handcuffs, batons, No narration Their destination? The cell blocks. La Mesa separates its prisoners according Building one is home to drug traffickers, In section two, there are kidnappers and murderers Three and four house small-scale criminals, Locked away in section five? Sex offenders and the sick. Ranging from diabetes to HIV. They all share a central area. Block number 6 is completely cut off from This wing is home to the toughest of all the And then there's a whole separate block Commander Flores starts his inspection in Every day, up to 20 new prisoners wind up Flores' goal is to determine what the mood Are the inmates acting up at the moment? Are there any gangs forming inside the cells? And: Where should he start the next raid? No narration For committing crimes like theft, mugging, each cell in block one at La Mesa holds an They share an area of just four by four-and-a-half Inmates have few belongings: mainly a few from the world outside. All stripped back to the bare essentials. No narration One of the inmates: Abraham Chaves Orozco. At the age of 22, he is one of the youngest Arrested at the airport for drug trafficking, He's already done three. That means three years of sleeping, showering, of privacy. [Voiceover]: Everything is dirty; just sitting I've had a foot infection in the past... The food is bad and unhygienic... And it's freaking hot... Abraham's family have long been trying to Though to no avail so far. But he's still hopeful. Many other inmates have lost all sense of Particularly the prison's American residents. Such as Taylor Elliott Howard. After all, US citizens have to remember that - just a stone's throw from home - will Taylor shares his cell with six other Americans. They are kept separate from the others. The risk of altercations with other inmates I have been accused of stealing a car. Armed robbery of a car. So, they said I had two guns, an AR-15 and So they gave me nine years for that. Nine years in La Mesa - penned up in one This is my bed, this is where I sleep right This is where Shawn sleeps, this is Troy right Over here on the top we got Brandon, we got And Mike sleeps right here. This is the bathroom. The sink, where we wash our hands, the toilet Right now, as you can see, the water is off, The misuse here is terrible. The living conditions here are terrible. I am a combat veteran, I am a United States I am decorated. Over there I am a hero, over here I am a villain. I can't even make a phone call to my family But the worst thing isn't the cell itself. Even worse is the fact that the inmates are We only get two hours of sun a week. If that - sometimes they cut it short, or on the yard and get the yard messed up for So we get like half an hour, an hour if somebody Other than that we are stuck in here 24 hours 6 days a week In La Mesa, exercise and fresh air are a luxury. Regardless of whether you're a car thief, The only glimpse any of them get of the sun They spend almost their entire sentence in This means two square meters for each inmate. Some for just a few years. Others for the rest of their lives, no doubt Locked away on an almost permanent basis without In a prison with an iron-clad set of rules. Rules laid out by ONE man. HE has had the first and last word on what Director Cesar Daniel Ramirez Acevedo. [Voiceover]: There are just a few small abnormalities, [Voiceover]: "OK, that's good to know." Every day, Acevedo checks whether his prison And tries to isolate problem cases as early Before La Mesa, Acevedo had already held the Now he's in the heart of Tijuana. A city where drug cartels battle it out for of all murders are related to narcotics. Acevedo rules with the principle of 100% control. No matter what's going on in his jail, Director The first inmates are allowed outside early A moment that puts all of the wardens on high After all, the chance of an attack on the - is never higher than at this moment. No narration The routine is always the same. Between Monday and Thursday, the guards open On a certain floor of a specific building. The same cells at the same time every week. And only one at a time. The next group cannot be released until all This is how the guards keep the upper hand. For most inmates, this precise moment offers they get each week. The prisoners are separated over three different Thanks to all these measures, inmates can dozen others during their time in prison. Regardless of how long they may have been This is how La Mesa's Director Acevedo keeps or drug dealing to a minimum. [Voiceover]: Nowadays, we have a huge number They enable us to keep perfect control. These rules didn't exist in the past; we supervision. Back then, a different government was ruling gang warfare. At La Mesa, the guards have lost their fight With fatal consequences. It happened in 2008. Two riots occurred within the space of one The first riot saw four inmates lose their To punish the prisoners, water and food were This then led to a second rebellion. And days of fighting. The prisoners' families started to get desperate. No narration Eventually, the police stormed the prison. And the outcome? 12 severely injured and 21 dead. A catastrophe. One that should never happen again. These days, the "external security" team does occur - nobody manages to escape. Guards protect the outer wall. In the center of a Mexican city that is home An additional safety measure: Highly trained Should worse come to worst, the guards are What's more, La Mesa places its most dangerous separate block. Commander Flores continues his hunt for rioters This part of the prison operates on a more About 450 prisoners are housed in this section The difference? They are all ringleaders. And they work in organized cartel structures. Their risk potential? Extremely high. [Voiceover]: [Voiceover]: Francisco Javier Villa Padilla - one of Sentenced for killing a police officer! Other cases will follow. [Voiceover]: me to begin with. They hit me, kicked me, held my head under They did it all. I killed multiple police officers, including It was obvious that they would have it in In May 2011, Francisco not only killed several from a bridge. A pretty brutal way of asserting your power. Back then, Francisco was working as a hit drug dealing, money laundering, and human It is regarded as the most powerful cartel He was caught just a few days later - along When he was arrested, police officers recovered 51 bags of crystal meth, among other things. [Voiceover]: my kids, my wife, a girlfriend. And I had plenty of money, things were good. I didn't know what it was like to go hungry Here in prison, you don't tend to get enough Catering in La Mesa is dealt with by staff sentences and a low risk profile. They are the few permitted to leave their and visiting time. This scheme even allows inmates to reduce Two days of work takes one day off their time Maximum security also applies when the food Every day, the guards check the food and staff The prisoners prepare a good three thousand They also distribute the 20 or so liters of There is no canteen. Food is delivered straight to the cells - by This is yet another measure that keeps contact to an absolute minimum. The main aim is to keep them in there as long No narration Strictly isolated from any form of contact: in block one are also all too familiar with. Even if they do manage to come face-to-face Almost no-one in the prison speaks English. They can do nothing but wait. No narration Pretty much what they try to do here is: they Most of us don't speak Spanish. They don't understand any English, they like that. So, as far as us, we are in trouble. There is no hope out there really. Almost no communication. And only the bare essentials needed to survive. However, even that isn't the American inmates' Since I have been here, from the conditions been nine people on this tier who just died That's not including the whole jail, just here. From the living conditions, from getting sick Taylor hopes to survive his time in La Mesa - unscathed. He is putting his trust mainly in God. Night falls over Tijuana. While the Mexican city begins to buzz with Americans tourists looking to party, nighttime TV, electricity, and lights off. [Voiceover]: Turn the lights and the TV off, No narration The next morning. It's the weekend. Visiting time. Around five hundred relatives flock to the Only those related by blood are permitted They bring clothes, hygiene products and money Like Abraham's mother Erika. She lives a few hours away. She only manages to visit her son every few She knows that a visit from his family is leave his cell outside of yard time. No narration Erika has been trying to get her son relocated To a prison where the conditions are a little Closer to his family. [Voiceover]: I want my son to get out more. More yard time, more activities he can get At the moment, he is cooped up with the other We are waiting for the process to get underway. It started a while back and now we need to Neither of the pair know if and when her application Until then, all they can do is keep persevering. Not long later and visiting hours are already Under Director Acevedo's rules, they are Security comes first for him. Relatives repeatedly try to smuggle drugs, [Voiceover]: thing that comes to mind is that it is a huge It's definitely very challenging." Absolute control. Tiny cells. Constant vigilance. All tools that the prison director uses to another riot. And although the prisoners aren't allowed day, particularly the inmates in high-security Seemingly ready for battle. To do this, they go as far as creating a clear Two inmates at a time are allowed to use the Until the next time they are let out. And the prisoners here are subjected to even Apart from opening cell after cell, this means And a physical search of every single inmate stabbings, gang warfare, and death. After all, inmates from the various drug cartels in the yard. They only see each other for two hours a week. And yet, if they were out on the streets, kill each other. No narration Even the guards don't enter the yard in No narration For the inmates, their two hours in the yard to contact the outside world. This wasn't always the case. Up until 2002, La Mesa was a completely different One with hardly any guards. One where any inmate inside its walls could It was known as: "El Pueblito - The little A prison town with its own rules and laws. Back then, La Mesa was ruled by the country's [Voiceover]: We used to have everything, shops, But there was also a huge difference between I did well. I worked as a bodyguard for an important inmate. Even though I was constantly on the lookout All that is from a time that now only the Like one particular inmate in section 7 - the Dolores Sanchez has been here since 1999. Her sentence? 34 years! For kidnapping. [Voiceover]: We used to be able to just open free. However, other things are better nowadays. There are no drugs, no alcohol, and no corruption So, it's safer and more structured now. These days, Dolores acts as a nurse and is and anti-depressants, to those suffering in And this gives her just that little bit more However, Dolores still remembers when she One with an income. Along with fast-food restaurants, launderettes, But also a whole lot of drug dealing and violence. After being built in 1956, it took the government the ground. The prison was then restructured. Even now, Dolores isn't sure which of these [Voiceover]: In those days, there were no No-one said, "you can't assault anyone," can't prostitute yourself" or anything The prison management only cared about making We used to have computers, we had restaurants, Now, there is none of that, no cash. These days, La Mesa at least has shops. The prison sells instant soups, snacks, and They also sell really basic items like toilet And luxury goods, such as hair dye. The sales clerks are inmates like Gisell Vargos for possession of a weapon. Inmates pay using their fingerprints. Everything is completely electronic. The prison is a kind-of bank. This enables it to control who owns what. And it can even freeze your account. [Voiceover]: No cookies, for instance, nothing special. What is sanctioned. Always in high demand: Fresh food. For the more affluent inmates. Prepared in the men's prison kitchen. And during delivery, an important rule applies: Men and women are banned from any contact The workers hold full responsibility for the [Voiceover]: checking if there is the right number of sandwiches. Should any of the items go missing, Gisell all: Banishment to a place where no-one in [Voiceover]: They would cut your yard time and you wouldn't And a stay in isolation means a whole lot Mesa. It's a punishment that all inmates fear. While on the hunt for the next riot, Commander guards like to visit. One of the prison's isolation cells. No narration Fighting, weapons, drugs. Anyone who breaks the prison's rules winds And that means even less sunlight. No electricity. Locked away, inmates vegetate in isolation The cells are dominated by sweat, stagnant on the walls. Inmates here even have to go without toilet They can't be sure when they'll be allowed [Voiceover]: problem. It's unbelievably hot, all you can do is We're in total isolation without any air They just leave us to rot away in here and The other problem is the water. There isn't running water from the tap every Today there is, but it's not always the There isn't enough to drink. Locked away. For weeks and months. All the inmates can do is vegetate here. Everyone in the isolation cell comes from The block for cartel killers and serial murderers. And most of them are new arrivals. Director Acevedo is here to check the risk After all, each one of these cells is home Rivalries and fights to become top dog can And this is exactly what the criminals have of Tijuana for years. [Voiceover]: It's also the city with the highest number Because of that there is a lot of crime and All problems that we need to sort out. What goes on outside the prison is exactly It's just a mirror for this city. Outside, gang members fight each other. Inside, they have to live with their enemies. Just like cartel hit man Francisco. He shares a cell with members of other gangs. He has gradually learned to accept this fact. And he's not sure if he ever wants to return Be it then or now, he has come to realize life than the seven years he has spent in [Voiceover]: I used to hunt people down to And for that reason, I was always in danger. So, I wasn't free on the outside either. It was also like living in a kind of prison. Francisco's biggest worry? He hasn't heard anything from his family The only person to sometimes visit him is Francisco believes that his kids are now criminals, [Voiceover]: I'm always thinking about my I look at this photo every morning. While all Francisco has left is his photo, one thing above all else: Hope. Finally being free. The 22-year-old is waiting for news from his - more lenient - prison. The American, Taylor, lost all feeling of He hasn't spoken to his family for months. That's because inmates wanting to make a else here: Money. It sucks, it sucks. Everybody that I talk to here, that's been that America is like a hotel. Jails there are like a hotel. We used to have, for those phones over there, So we could call the States for free. To talk to our families. But now they got rid of our collect calls. So now you have to buy phone cards, to be only one person in my cell gets money. Everybody else... we don't have family here. We don't have money, so we can't even And because I don't get a deposit, most and sell, I sell for hygiene stuff. Toothpaste, toothbrush, soap. Stuff like that. Toilet paper. Because they don't supply none of that here. Money in La Mesa is essential to survive. There's not any good news for Abraham. No updates about his release. He uses his remaining few minutes for a couple [Voiceover]: These calls are important to There are some family members and friends Like my sisters, for example. They are growing up. That's why I talk to them, to see how things They need to know that I'm still their brother So now all the 22-year-old can do is wait Until the Mexican justice system decides to Or not. Taylor is enjoying the last few rays of sunshine And just keeps on holding out... Nine years in this place? Bad. Really, really bad. I mean... I don't even know. I don't know how I feel. As of right now, I am just going with the Like, you know, another day down, another A few more to go, another day down. Just going with it you know... not trying stress on the situation. Just go with it and hope it lets up. Just go with it. Taylor hopes that he might still get out early Free time is over after two hours. It's time for everyone to return to their The fate awaiting most of the inmates: Nearly To begin with, all the inmates from one cell Then they leave the yard together, keeping Yard by yard. It's a method with a system behind it. [Voiceover]: their yard time first and come inside. All the others have to wait during this process. There are some inmates who have to be kept They belong to different gangs. From serial killer Francisco and drug trafficker of the three thousand inmates eventually end For Commander Mario Flores, it is the perfect He suspects a certain cell of having home-made No narration [Voiceover]: One stays outside. The rest of the inmates are kept under control. The guards are mainly on the lookout for home-made Made out of toothbrushes, wires and bits of Anything the inmates could use to fight each [Voiceover]: ...On the floor....Everyone on the floor...Everyone Over to the side! [Voiceover]:: Everyone face the wall. [Voiceover]: Then Commander Flores' men scour the selected First the guards lead the inmates out and Then the troop take apart every last centimeter Mattresses, shoes, magazines. And more. No narration [Voiceover]: Do you have the fan? We need to open the fan! So far, all they have are some home-made weights. Probably harmless. But when it comes to a fight, then they could Now time for the fan... [Voiceover]: It might not be dangerous, but whatever. Things like this are banned in prison. [Voiceover]: Like this thing here. The prisoners made this out of a toothbrush The outcome of the raid? One pen plus a small knife and a heater for Both are home-made from bits of metal, a toothbrush It's all reasonably harmless. No narration The punishment for this cell's inhabitants the next few days. Now we got to fix everything. The prisoners are likely to only get a warning. Or have their TV or yard time taken away. In the worst-case scenario, they could also Yet another day is coming to an end at La Another day that 22-year-old convicted drug soon be out of here. [Voiceover]: I hope to either be relocated I've noticed that people who have already They are angrier, more impatient, they're And the Americans are trying not to back down... You don't want to let this place change You don't want it because it's a shithole. You don't want to let it change you. You gotta keep yourself strong. Like... you know what I mean? Giselle - convicted for possession of a months. And she's already planning her life. [Voiceover]: I want to start over. And have a career as a real doctor. I just want to start over and never look back." Dolores on the other hand has another fifteen She will be in her mid-50s by the time she [Voiceover]: When I get out of here, I need technology. So much has changed. And people have changed, too! The whole of society is different. And hit man Francisco isn't really sure [Voiceover]: They were all killed within three months of They are all dead. Director Acevedo has managed to keep La Mesa A prison in the heart of Tijuana. For a long time, a prison ruled by pure anarchy. And a prison, where many people lost their A prison with cast-iron rules. Minimal freedom. And maximum surveillance. No narration [Voiceover]: This prison used to be notorious for its chaos. It was called "the little village." And for good reason! It had all the qualities of a normal village. But it was not an effective prison. Now we have everything under control, there When it was known as the "little village", walls -A place full of drugs, prostitutes, Director Acevedo is keen to make sure that again. In one of the toughest prisons in the world.