Still feel like in the hotel happy Please be gentle next time If I were gentle, you wouldn't beg me. Hate sorry Honey, how are you? Are you okay? My new skirt got dirty. Jiahe An Ran, I'm sorry The operation failed Jiahe is dead Aren't you dead? Qiao Anran, I didn't expect that I hadn't seen you for ten years. Are you this old? you... Forgot to tell you We got married ten years ago. What? Ten years ago? Fortunately, you are smart Faked his own death and divorced her Otherwise, I'll be looking at her face all day. I can't even eat. suspended animation? I just want to get rid of you Just a special play How about it Is it exciting? Why If you want to divorce me Just say it straight Why go to all that trouble? Of course it's for money. Otherwise, why would I waste my time playing a loving couple with you? If you don't divorce Where can I get 50 million? Who can I ask to pay the money back for me? So you planned all this. Transfer of company assets Mortgage house Then faked his death and escaped Leave me alone to pay the debt Married for 5 years Not only did you fail to pass on the Cheng family's bloodline, Killed my son From now on Our Cheng family has nothing to do with you One month ago Cheng Jiahe uses this villa Get a mortgage loan of 10 million from our bank But the repayment was not made on time So we took back the property and put it up for auction. Please do it immediately Ma Jiahe Why do you want to take out a loan from Yinheng? Did You Know That's your business It has nothing to do with my family Get out of here, mom. Mom Of course, only you, an idiot. It's been 10 years I've been kept in the dark. Why One is me One is my best friend One is my favorite person Why are you so cruel? What did I do wrong? Blame it on your stupidity Blame it on you being stupid, blame it on you not knowing people well, Zhangjiahe Over the years I'm here to pay off your debt You get up early and stay up late every day. Insulting people Is this ever going to end? husband My newly bought skirt was soiled by these people. purchase I'll take you to buy a new one now. Li Jiahe, you are bullying scumbags I kill you This is the hospital Am I not dead? How come you are here? Sorry Anran The operation failed Jiahe, he is gone What did you say elder brother You have failed surgery Now it is 10 years ago Could it be that I was reborn? Since God gave me another chance Then I will never make the same mistake again An Ran, this is Jia He's death certificate Enron dead can not be resurrected Your condolences Yes, sister-in-law I see you are tired too. Why don't you go back and rest early? If my brother were still alive It's sad to see you like this. Even a beast like him can feel sorry for people That's ridiculous. An Ran, drink some water first and take it easy. Just look at me with your own eyes Hahaha Ai Ran, drink some water first and take it easy. After Cheng Jiahe's death in the previous life I fainted in the hospital I thought I was too sad. Now it seems They must have tampered with this glass of water. Just to get Cheng Jiahe out of this They even used this as an excuse to disown me. I didn't see anything wrong. Drink it quickly, it will be bad if it gets cold. Cheng Jiaheng, stop pretending I know you're going to die An Ran, what are you talking about? Cheng Jiaheng you bastard Wake me up I order you to wake up now. You promised us to be together forever How can you leave by yourself? You don't keep your word How am I sorry for you? You're gonna treat me like this Chen Jiaheng, I am sorry for doing this for you You're gonna treat me like this You're going to kill me Chen Jiaheng Oh Stop hitting me. Calm down. No response seems It's anesthesia. Faking death is so boring Why not experience what real death is? Jiahe is dead now I want his death to be more meaningful. Nurse, I want to donate my husband's body. Is this hospital acceptable? Can I'll call the doctor right away. Sister-in-law, you have to donate my brother's body You have always been kind. Before he died, he always said he was gone. The body will then be donated to people in need. No way, he would never say such a thing. Yuting What do you mean? Don't you know my husband better than I do? My sister-in-law I've never heard my brother talk about it before. Did you make a mistake? Xiaoxiao, I'm your sister-in-law How can I be kidding you? What should I do with Sister Yuting? The doctor said this lady wants to donate her body. Mrs. Chen, thank you so much. I thank you on behalf of the patients' families. In fact, I also have my own selfishness If his organs can help others To me, it is a continuation of his life. No matter what It's very rare that you have this heart But what is your husband going to donate? My husband died of a heart attack. I don't know which organs he can donate. Do the autopsy yourself. That's my brother. I've never heard of it My brother must believe in the remains You can't do this Don't mess around Get out of the way safely Xiaoxiao is Jiahe's biological sister after all. You also understand her feelings. I just respect Jiahe's former members. Is this wrong too? I think Donating Jiahe's body Is this a bit hasty? Can we at least let Auntie see her one last time? Yes, my mother hasn't come yet. I'll donate when my mom comes. Too late Gambling for one more year will make you more money. You are a doctor yourself Don't you know the importance of time? You are difficult Can you bear to see so many families torn apart? Coco, please get out of the way Hey Aran You can't do that Brother A'ran, please make them stop No, brother. Put your hand down. Cao Anran, you are crazy You are my brother What qualifications do you have to do this? Xiaoxiao, although you are Jiahe's sister But I am his wife In the legal sense Only I have the right to deal with his issues Who dares to touch my son? Mom, you're finally here. Mom, you don't come anymore My brother really died without a complete body. What the hell did my son do? I actually married a vicious woman like you. Not only killed him And he'll have his stomach cut open. 1234567 Oh, my dear grandson. You are so smart Auntie, come quickly Qiao Anren wants to drink at home Who dares to touch my son today? I'll kill his whole family. What are you still standing there for? Get out of here! Mom, I'm just following Jiahe's thoughts before he died. Stop talking nonsense here. How come I never heard him say that? Donate yourself. Stop talking about my son. Sorry mom I was wrong, calm down. Why Don't Okay, stop standing here. Save yourself from being an eyesore. I will personally send the family home and go to the funeral. Auntie Auntie, auntie, wake up, auntie Looks like mom is tired Let mom have a good rest. Doctor, let's go. An Ran, what do you want to do? You can't do that Auntie will kill you when she wakes up, right? I'm looking forward to it Mom, wake up. Mom, wake up! Let us out Chengjiahe Since you like to play dead Then I will let you fake your death and then really die Let us out Mom, wake up! You don't wake up My brother is really dead. Getting married is good All this The operation begins You deserve it. stop Director Li, I just received this notice. Cancel the unfollow rank? I am his wife How come I don't know Hello Go to the operating room Cheng Jiahe is about to be dissected What Stop the surgery immediately If someone finds out that Cheng Jiahe is not dead We have reported the issue of issuing fake certificates. No one can escape then. This is what Mr. Cheng's mother meant. you guess My mother-in-law just fainted from grief. I can't wake up for a while. How did she tell me He is Long Yuting's assistant in the hospital No wonder the death certificate was issued so quickly. Mrs. Cheng, what are you talking about? I didn't see Do you have any disagreements about a batch of donations? If you hold the hospital accountable We can't afford it Go now! I really want the family members to mess around etc. I Shit, he woke up. Where did all the dead people go? Please don't let anything happen This is total death Where was the body pushed just now? Quick Hey Sister Yuting Nurse Nurse Nurse, please look at my mother. No, they can't find out. Otherwise, my plan is that since your hospital is unwilling That's fine. Thanks Mrs. Cheng Please let us worry I must deal with Cheng Jiahe as soon as possible. Otherwise, it will be troublesome when he wakes up. Mr. Cheng, we are from Anyang Funeral Home Already in the hospital funeral parlor Are you asking if Mr. Cheng is here? He made an appointment Our funeral home's cremation services This is Cheng Jiahe's cell phone. Make an appointment for your own cremation Cheng Jiahe, you are really great Miss To me, he is my wife. We are in the operating room now. After Mrs. Chen's patient passed away We generally recommend 7 days before cremation. To avoid the occurrence of clamping You're in too much of a hurry to cremate him now. In case 7 days is too long It's better to cremate it as soon as possible. Lest you get sadder the more you watch But Director Li, this is my family matter. You're being too lenient. What are you afraid of? Where is Cheng Jiahe? Where did they go? Qiao Anran came out to the crematorium Why don't you stop it? What's wrong with me Qiao Anran has begun to doubt me now It's useless garbage. hurry up It's coming so fast. Aunt An Ran hasn't woken up yet It's not a good idea to cremate Jiahe now. I'm doing this for her own good. She's in such bad shape now. I'm afraid she'll see Jiahe's body Auntie, she is your mother-in-law after all. How could you curse her like that? Isn't what I said the truth? Why are you so concerned about my family affairs? Of course I care about you. Are you my best friend? I certainly don't want you to be affected by this. Are there any conflicts between you and your mother-in-law? Don't worry, I know what's going on. Ugly lady, we have to leave as soon as possible. oops I see you don't look well. Otherwise, leave the cremation to me. You go back and have a good rest first No need. There are so many things to do in the hospital. You are so busy Where is the time to accompany me? Besides I also want to send you off for the last time Ah Ran, you can't be cremated Jiahe is not dead Yuting Do you know what you are saying? Aya, what I said is true. Chen Jiahe is not dead If he hadn't died How would you explain this? Issuing a death certificate for a living person You should know what the consequences are. Even if I don't hold you accountable How would you explain this to the hospital? How to explain to the public How to explain the law Will they let you go? From now on Not only will all hospitals make you famous You will also be condemned by the law Are these things ok? I I I know you're worried I can Good for family You have this day too I know you're not dead I also know about your affair with Luo Yuting. I know you want to get away with this. So that I can live with him Leave me alone to pay your debt But it doesn't matter I don't hate you anymore After all, there is no need to have feelings for a dying person. It seems the effect of the drug is wearing off. Golden Harvest You'll feel it for a while. It feels like being burned to death by fire. You finally woke up They're all dying people. Can't you be more peaceful? How do you know this? I've been through all this before. People also calculated me in this way I'm in debt Alone and helpless You know how desperate I was at that time. But it doesn't matter This is also You have to experience it again Jewelry to the rescue Save your life. Wife I was wrong. It was that bitch Luo Yunting who deceived me. Favorite Person It's you love me Love me, you're having sex with my best friend Love me, you gave birth to Chong Tianci with him Loving me, you made me take out a 50 million loan What guy You take me for a fool I was really a fool in my previous life How could I be deceived by you for ten years? Wife I know I'm wrong Give me another chance I won't do it anymore. Have you ever heard a saying? Only death is the most obedient Good boy, we'll be there soon. this A great feeling as a couple Oh, what a pity. Why are you crying? Wait until we get to the crematorium before crying. rest assured I will always be with you Mom, please play the piano slowly. Sister Yuting is here It'll be fine. No, my heart is beating so fast. I'm afraid what if it's Sister Yuting or my brother? he He was cremated safely. What Mom, don't worry. I'll give him a call Hello Mom What if no one answers the phone you call? What else can I do? Go to the funeral home This bitch must have done it on purpose I'm going to kill him. Chengjiahe You'll soon get what you want. You just wait here. How long will it take? There are many people today I guess I'll have to wait another hour. master Can you hurry up? Please, please Can you hurry up? I have an emergency One hour I have an emergency at home. Please help me So many people are waiting. How can I help How long will it take? What's going on? Manager, Ms. Hello, Manager My husband died of a heart attack. My mother-in-law couldn't bear the shock and fainted. I really need to get back to the hospital. See if you can be flexible. I understand you are anxious But there are so many people in front of me Manager, I am currently in the hospital alone for emergency treatment. I'm really worried about him. If anything happens again, I can Oh, this really can't be delayed. I'll arrange it for you right away Thank you, Manager Wait, let me come. I also want to give you the last Dear husband Bye now don't want You bitch Bring my son here. Do you want murder? Mom, I think you are too sad. Confused? Jia He has passed away. My sister-in-law is just too sad Can't face reality And how could you take advantage of our absence? Cremation of my brother Yes, I have something to say to him. Push him out now. Hurry up! What are you standing there for? There are so many people waiting for my nickname What do they have to do with me? Hurry up. Are you done yet? This is the spark room. You're not kidding. I've been waiting for half a day. Hurry up, Don't waste everyone's time. Mom, look Then you go out Jiahe is my son I cremated him myself. It's fine. I still don't want to tell the truth. Don't blame me for being cruel Aunt Anran feels sad Please be more considerate of him. I think my mother still can't bear it Otherwise, I'll come. Oh no ah Why doesn't this work? Stop now Stop it Once the machine is started Unless the burning ends Otherwise it won't stop All King son son Son Son Could it be that the rabbit is not dead? I've heard This corpse is exhausting. It's normal. How can I live without you? How desperate it is Ah ha, son, mother Although Jiahe is gone But don't worry I will treat your sister well in the future. You killed my son. You'll die a miserable death Mom, I know Jiahe passed away. You are sad But if you die of a heart attack What does it have to do with me? No, my son is in your arms. It's you who really doesn't believe it. You can ask Yuting. He personally issued the death certificate. Auntie, I am you. You killed my son. My son is clearly not dead. You must let him be killed Now he's really dead. You killed my son You cut him down. Mom, calm down. Let go of Sister Yuling Mom, is what you just said true? Of course it's true My son is so healthy. How could it be otherwise? No wonder you called me so miserably He's not dead. Golden Harvest Golden Harvest Jiahe, I'm going. This is murder, right? This is going to jail. Is what Yuting's father said true? Jiahe is really still alive Not true Aunt An Ran is now upset by Jia He's death You can't believe what he said. Stop talking nonsense, bitch I'm wide awake You'd better think it through. If this matter is exposed We all have to go Auntie, are you awake now? Yuting, I'm sorry. Auntie was confused just now Ah, I'm scared to death Luckily there's no one alive inside. Otherwise I will have a nightmare tonight. that is I almost called the police. Chengjiahe You guys are really a family. Do anything for your own benefit Ma'am, we need family members to sign. You killed my son, you little bitch I'm fighting with you You just didn't tell the truth Now pretend to be a good person here So what should we do now? Everyone is dead What else can I do? The 50 million that Jiahe paid out is with you. Take it out for me now There's a penny of mine in there, too. Isn't it at your place? You still want me What do you mean I'll risk going to jail to get you a death certificate. You're not going to give me any money now, right? Sister Ping, I seem to have heard my brother say The money is hidden with you. What nonsense are you talking about? How could I not know this? You guys are planning to keep it all for yourself, right? You little bitch, how dare you slander me? Hand over the money now. Hey, you old woman Don't fight anymore. Help me find someone Cheng Jiahe is such a ruthless person I didn't expect that from the moment I handed the company over to you You start calculating. But what about the money? Where are they hidden? The bank will come in 3 days. I have to find that 50 million immediately. Have all the finance people come to my office immediately. Who of you can explain it to me? Why is there no money in the company's account? Mr. Qiao, we don't know about this either. yes We all do things according to Mr. Cheng's instructions. you mean Is to start a family and instruct you to transfer company assets How is it possible? We don't dare to do this. We are all veterans of the company. How could you do such a thing? Maybe some people can't tell the difference. How about it I have sent you the specific information. You all should get out. Please stay Mr. Qiao, what else do you have? You helped Cheng Jiahe transfer the money from the company account. Hey, I've always been curious Cheng Jiahe's ability as an individual There shouldn't be any way Quietly transferred all the money in the company account It turns out you are helping him. Mr. Qiao What are you talking about I don't understand Chengjiahe is now dead. You don't have to keep hiding it. Oh yeah Really dead How could that be impossible? He is cheating You're saying Whether it's real death or fake death, won't you know everything if you ask the Cheng family? Qiangzi, you'd better not waste your energy. I don't know anything Since you don't want to say anything Then I'll have to hand you over to law enforcement. You are slandering Besides, you have no evidence. Defamation Then look at what this is. You said law enforcement officers saw these photos Can you still be satisfied with the scandals you and Cheng Jiaheng had? By then everyone will know about your relationship. Do you think your parents' physical condition Will I be pissed off to death by you? What do you want to do? Where is the 50 million? I'm afraid this amount of money is not even 5 million. 50 million is here 50 million is here Cheng Jiahe still really trusts you I actually left all the money with you. Of course He said that once the incident was over He took me away You are too naive. Why do you think Cheng Jiahe will do this for you? Abandoning his family and his son Son what son You don't know He has a son This year, he should be 4 years old. How come? He clearly said that he only loves me He also told me that he did his best for your Qiao family. But you didn't treat him as a human being. He only stays with me He can catch his breath You see, this house is the one he bought for me. And these He bought them all for me. A bunch of fakes are worth showing off to me Shut up, what nonsense are you talking about? Isn't it a luxury? I have used it since I was a child I can tell whether it is true or false at a glance Okay, even if these are fake. What about this house? My name is written on this house. This kind of certificate is 9.9 yuan online Can do a lot Shut up and stop talking nonsense I have known Cheng Jiahe for so many years I didn't realize he had this hobby. you say Why did he choose to fake his death? With you He's using you, don't you know? I don't believe you're talking nonsense. I heard him tell me where he is. This is his cell phone. Do you want to see it? I said I love him He really believed it. Are men nowadays so easy to deceive? Damn, he actually looked at me like that, it's disgusting If it weren't for Joe's money I would have killed him long ago Damn, it's over. I killed him A beast, he is a beast. It's all right. It's over. Where is he? I want to kill him. Didn't I tell you? He died and was cremated. That's fake Who told you it was fake? You killed him Luo Yuting, this bitch The money must be in his hands. You're pretending to be me Ouch! It hurts Be gentle, mom I don't feel like that either. Did my brother hide the money somewhere else? impossible We are the only ones who know about this plan. Who else but him? Why I remember my brother's company seemed to have some helper Oh, yes That's Song Song Song Tian right What nonsense are you talking about? I'm just a powerless woman I just cremated her according to normal procedures. catch Hello, Xiao Song Come to Cheng's house. I have something to talk to you about I didn't agree Promise him that Cheng Jiahe will use you like that Don't you want revenge? Good sister I'll be there soon What do you want to do? As long as you do what I say I'll give you 5 million What if I don't Do you think you have a choice? You'd better keep your word Although all the troubles were caused by your Cheng family Then the 5 million will also be paid by your Cheng family. What did you say That 50 million is in the Qiao family Yes Cheng Zong believes that the more dangerous a place is, the safer it is. If Qiao Ran finds out where the money is hidden, We won't get a penny. Then he won't find out. Go to Qiao's Here it comes Mom Xiaoxiao Why are you here? My son's home I come whenever I want To go through your suffering Mom, that's not what I meant. Where is the money hidden? This is my son's home. Now my son is dead You are no longer eligible to live here. Move out now Move out now But this is the house my parents left me Just added the guy's name. Qiao Anran, what do you mean? You and my brother have been married for so many years. Now he's dead You don't even want to leave us a house. No matter what My son has half. No, mom I'm not afraid of you laughing at me. The company's performance was not good before In order to fill the company's hole, Jiahe Sold all the properties I had. This is the only place left. I don't have money now. There's really nowhere to go. That's your business What does it have to do with me? Get out of here This is my house If you want to leave, it's you who should leave How do you talk to me? I am your mother-in-law Mom, I have always respected you. But that's not why you treat me like this You want this house so badly? You can also buy him Buy him The current market price of this house is 10 million It's the joint property of Jiahe and me. Selling it to you for 5 million is not too much, right? Impossible Don't even think about it There is no reason in the world for a mother to buy her son's house. Then I won't move out. Of course, if you want to live with me Welcome to you OK, I'll buy it Give me a few days I collected 5 million I will see the 5 million tomorrow at this time. good Oh my god, if he doesn't leave Why don't you just kick him out? Why did you promise him? Think about it with your pig brain. What if he calls the police? Isn't our secret exposed? That's 5 million. We really gave him For 50 million This 5 million must be given But we don't have that much money. No need to have Go and collect money mom 200,000 yuan. I bought this car for 800,000 yuan. I opened it a few times This price now I can't accept it. You wait, wait, wait Hey, okay, okay, give it to me Mom, have you collected all the money? Still a long way off What to do then We have sold everything we should sell. Are you free tonight? I'll go find you That 50 million has not been used yet. You're really not in a hurry What's the point of me being anxious? He won't confess himself. You are such a useless piece of trash. he Miss Qiao is very busy Why did you suddenly think of me? Jiahe is gone before Yuting I'm in a bad mood What did you say? Don't mind it. Qiao Anran is Cheng Jiahe's wife after all Will he know something if we spend so much time together? Oh, how can I not know your temper? I've long forgotten about that kind of thing. Okay, I know you're the best to me. Of course you are my best friend By the way, how are Auntie and Xiaoxiao doing recently? Don't mention it. I don't know what happened to my mother-in-law. Jiahe wanted to occupy my house early in the morning Occupy your house Yes, even if I let them move in. They don't want to Even said he would spend 5 million to buy the house Could it be that the 50 million is hidden in the Qiao family? Otherwise, Zhang Cuilan, that stingy old woman How can you afford to spend 5 million to buy a house? Excuse me An Ran, I have something else to do. See you another day Mom, are you really going to sell the house? You can't catch a wolf without sacrificing your child I want to sell my house What? I bought this house for 2 million two years ago. Now the second-hand one is 1.55 million. Auntie, this price is already good. Don't you see that this is the cold winter period of real estate? House prices are falling too fast And you are in a hurry to sell The buyer can only offer this price. If it's higher, people won't want it. Don't want it. We're not selling it yet. What's the difference between you and asking for a higher price? OK, then I'll contact the seller. Hey wait a minute I'll sell it mom You are crazy Okay, please sign here. Aunt haven't seen you for a long time Please wait a moment, I will transfer the account for you Why are you here? I shouldn't be asking you this. Jiahe just died You are ready to sell your house Did you find the money? Prepare to run I don't know what money. How did I hear that? Someone wants to buy the Qiao family villa for 5 million How do you know if it's Qiao Er? It seems that the money is really in the Qiao family No matter where the money is It has nothing to do with you. My son left it to me. Auntie, how can you say that? So many years I followed Jiahui without any status She gave him a son What about him? I never believed it. You even hid something so important from me. What's wrong with you hiding this from an outsider? I am an outsider What about that gift? He is Jiahe's biological son. Now Jiahe is dead Tianci is the only child of your Cheng family. I tell you I also have the 50 million If you don't give I will change Tianci's name. Let you have a family without descendants You dare you can try Auntie, where is the money? I don't take it for nothing What do you want? I can help you buy the Qiao family villa for 2.5 million But you have to give me half of the 50 million. Why do you take so much? I'm a God-given mother. Auntie, do you want It's your money or mine. The future is God-given They are all from the Cheng family. You said so much Don't you just want more? I just want to give myself some protection. What if you get married? To outsiders What if our God-given money is really gone? Luo Yuting, what do you mean? You mean I don't have a share of this money? Oh, that's enough. Isn't that embarrassing enough? mom Acts for God's Sent I agree to your terms Thank you, Auntie That 2.5 million is not a small amount. Do you have that much money? Auntie, don't worry. Just for God's sake Even if I sell everything I own I will definitely gather the money together Auntie, the money has arrived. You can check it Our company Don't worry, you can find me next time Ms. Qiao has completed the formalities. This house is yours now You said he really saw the money Of course Otherwise, how could that old woman Zhang Cuilan be willing to sell her house? Collect money I still feel like something is not right What if Zhang Cuilan and Qiao Anran team up? What if I lie to you? impossible Qiao Anran is totally devoted to Cheng Jiahe If he knew, he would have collapsed. Who has the heart to think about these things? What if Zhang Cuilan gets the money and then changes her mind? There's no need to worry about this. As long as God is there Zhang Cuilan will never kowtow to me after all He also hoped that God would grant them the Cheng family to inherit the Xiang Mansion. Too bad he'll never know Tianci is the benefactor of both of us. But Oh, there are not so many. Hurry up and collect money What is the house, car, watch? Sell what you can quickly. Don't delay my plan. What are you looking at? Go quickly. Director Li, why are you here? Auntie, Hong Kang also has a share of this 5 million And he also helped a lot with Jiahe's previous affairs I don't care about these It's half and half as we said before. I don't care about his share. This is 5 million Take this money Move out now You must really like this house. Can you move in? No need to buy it What's the meaning You want to regret OK, since you really want to buy I'll sell it to you Just make sure you won't regret it Stop talking nonsense Sign the contract if you want to sell it I have already signed Very good Okay, you can go now. 50 million is mine now Let's collect the house now. I searched everywhere here. There's nothing. I also searched the basement. There is nothing either. Impossible Definitely here Found it The money must be in the safe. This is the password God bless you God's birthday Oh, it's open. How come it's all white paper? Where's the money? Where's the bank card? How could there not be? Where's my money? Where is my 50 million? Stop acting, old man. Did you keep the 50 million all by yourself? What nonsense are you talking about? Please let me go Don't touch my mother, get out of here. Then you hand over the money immediately. I really don't know Please let go! Let go of what? Can't you see I'm being bullied? Let go Hello, is Chen Jiahe here? Who are you? One month ago Chenjiahe uses this villa Like our bank mortgage loan of 10 million But the repayment was not made on time Therefore, this villa in our society has been opened Please evacuate immediately Please evacuate immediately No, I just bought this villa. It belongs to me, you can't auction it. I'm sorry that the lady has mortgaged the property to the bank. You cannot buy or sell before the loan is fully repaid. So we can still take it back What Hey, come and have a look. Oh, is there any justice in the world? The bank people are robbing the house Ma'am, if you continue to interrupt our work We can only call the police Mother Don't tell me we're leaving. If I don't leave, kill me if you can. Who wants to die? I'll help him. Where is Chen Jianhe? How dare you owe me money? I abused him dare I found him Otherwise I'll kill him. Who are you to him? We are here to collect debts from him. Didn't you find anyone? Uh, yeah We are here to collect debts. Brother, you sit first. Let's go look for it again. What about you? We are with him. Wait for me I thought you guys couldn't get out. What do you mean What can I mean? I just saw a group of criminals. Break into your house I'm worried about you. You better give me that 50 million. Otherwise I'll tell you The person in front of me is Cheng Jiahe's mother. Do you think they'll let you go? The money is not with me 50 million what are you talking about I forgot everything And you stupid idiot I've been deceived for so long. I don't know anything yet Yuting, what are you talking about? Did You Know All funds in Qiao's account All were moved away by Chengjiahe Even this villa is mortgaged Collected a total of 50 million Just preparing to fake death I didn't expect you to burn me alive. Maybe he won't do that. What is impossible? That 50 million is in the hands of this old woman. Let's work together to make him spit out the money. You won't have to pay off so much debt. No, the money is really not with me. Then why are you so sure that the money is hidden in the villa? It was Zhongtian who told us We were all deceived by him It's to debug the property. Why did he lie? I told him to say that. What why did you do that? To get my money back, of course. What have you eaten, clothed and lived in these years? Which one Cheng Jiahe didn't buy it for you with my money. I am your mother-in-law What's wrong with me using some of your money? Are you so fussy? I just don't care too much Only then you can get an inch Not only do they want to transfer my property You want me to pay your debt? An Ran, have you found the 50 million? yes Really? Where is it? Why do you want it? How come? I'm happy for you. So that's it Yes, after I knew their plan I just want to tell you secretly But I'm afraid you won't believe it I just want to help you find the money first. I didn't expect you found it first. So that's how it is You really are my best friend, hahahaha The best girlfriend is the one who chases after you Giving birth to a child for someone else's husband I really have learned a lot. Xiaosan Yes, Luo Yuting gave birth to a son for my brother. That child 4 years old You and my brother have only been married for 5 years. Think about it yourself Yuqing, what's going on? I want to hear you tell me in person Enron is not what you think Everything is here. What else can I argue? Tianci is not Jiahe's child. His last name is Li. This is the child of Hong Kang and I. I promise you What I said is true If you don't believe We can do a paternity test. Bitch, what nonsense are you talking about? God is my grandson Old man, you've gone crazy now that your son is dead, right? God is my child It has nothing to do with Cheng Jiahe You two dogs You actually lied to us about raising a son for you. How shameless! On shamelessness Who can compare to your Cheng family? In order to calculate the daughter-in-law's money Any method can be done Fortunately, we realized it safely and in time. Luo Yuting, have you forgotten Who issued that certificate? You still have the nerve to pretend to be a good person here? You were the one who issued the death certificate. You killed my son Now you're making our family childless. I really have no face to face my ancestors. You guys are a group. So what? Qiao Anran, you'd better give me the money right away. I'll let you go or You better think about it carefully How should I face the interrogation of law enforcement officers later? What's the meaning Li Hongkang Luo Yuting Zhang Cuilan Cheng Xiaoxiao Suspected of murder Arrest is now being carried out in accordance with the law You are you mistaken? Yeah, look at us. How could it be like killing someone? And you said we killed someone Who did you kill? We dare to say that you didn't kill Cheng Jiahe You misunderstood Jiahe is my son How can we kill him? There are both witnesses and physical evidence Still want to quibble Witness I can testify In order to obtain Qiao Anran's assets, Cheng Jiahe Want to leave I didn't expect to be harmed by the four of them. What the hell are you talking about? He obviously died of a heart attack. Everyone can testify. It's already this time You guys are pretty united. Unfortunately, Cheng Jiahe wanted to get Qiao's assets. Cheated my feelings Tell me your plans. What else can I say now? What a sin What did my family do wrong? How did it become like this today? Big Head Ah, let go of my brother. I am innocent and let go I heard you're going to take your parents away from Anyang. Do you think you can escape? What do you want? I hope you can turn yourself in to law enforcement. Zhang Cuilan and others in power In this way You can also get a reduced sentence In return I will give the 5 million to your parents It's great that everything is over I'm going to start a new life Chu Jiahua You wouldn't think I will let you die so easily Um