This is the Miller's planet. It's the closest planet to the fictional black hole Gargantua. So what's so special about this scene? Well, just in the span of this 5-second clip from this planet, a lot has happened on Earth. I mean A LOT. In this video, we're going to explain what happens in Interstellar. We touched upon the fundamentals of this topic from our previous video, You can check out the video here. But just to give you a brief summary, Under the influence of a strong So if you're just hanging out a near the effect of time going slower. But gravity isn't the only According to another one of Einstein's for an object when it moves. Combining these two concepts together, Suppose that we walked up a flight of stairs. Our body is slowly moved away from Earth, meaning that we will experience time going faster. But at the same time, since we are we should experience time going slower. So being farther from the pull of gravity, But moving counteracts this effect. Of course this is all oversimplified and the devil's in the details. But let's not forget why we're here, Let's consider two comparable cases. We have person A, floating nearby And person B just casually floating Person A shines a green laser beam Because light is a form of vibration, to 600 trillion vibrations each second. Now, light is also a form of energy. And as that beam of light comes out it loses a lot of energy. This loss means that there is a So by the time that beam of light reaches by some factor. That means, instead of the green light person B gets only -let's say 10 billion which is a microwave radio beam. This phenomenon is called gravitational redshift. But not so fast. anywhere and disappear. Since person A creates 600 trillion wiggles 10 billion every second. The only way this can happen is if is not the same as one second In other words, it only takes those 600 trillion wiggles. But it will take 60,000 seconds, to receive them. So this is what happens. Our clocks run at widely different rates. mechanical or electronic devices like your heart, lungs, your brains, etc. Person A takes a breath, and measures a few seconds For him, everything feels normal. On the other hand person B, sees everything in slow motion. With several days passing between So now revisiting this scene again But don't worry, we're not done yet. Stick around if you want to learn more about According to Einstein's special relativity, the slower that it will move through time. On Earth, where time is slowed by only a few On the surface of a neutron star, gravity's pull is enormous. And at the surface of a black hole, Where the gravity is so humongous Not even light. So if we apply Einstein's relativity here, experience time at a very slow rate. But here on Earth, the And the gravitational force of the sun So people on Earth experience time faster than that of the three And of course all of this information is brought written by the scientific consultant of the film. In real life, this process is happening One interesting example is our At the ISS, time runs slower Technically speaking, it is a different So by calculating the difference we could correct the time at the ISS. Because we use a lot of references we might as well just take one case study in the movie. In the opening scene when Cooper an intense music with clock-ticking The tempo changes over the course of the song. where time dilation takes effect because Roughly we'll get about 221 million seconds of about 61,400 seconds which on Miller's planet. Multiply this by the interval between each tick, Or about 21 hours. So each tick you hear is almost a whole day And this is side by side of what happens After grasping all of this piece of information, Is this extreme time dilation possible Could we even walk on the surface of it? At one point, we are told that the gravity We see the actors panting. A little bit under duress because But is this enough for this Well, actually not even close. If you've visited the surface of our sun but still much more massive than Earth, To get to an extreme dilation where one hour such a strong gravitational field. There is simply no planet that can and if you try to land on the surface, The weight of the astronauts would be without doing the math. But anyhow, if they wanted to get all enjoy the movie. After all, it's science fiction. And to make a great film, to the extreme. But in our case today, it's sufficient enough into a beautiful film. &quot;We'll find a way professor.