It will be one of the biggest earthquakes When the Big One finally hits America's rarely seen. Buildings will collapse, burying thousands Fires will break out, devastating entire city There will be landslides, dam failures, chemical qualify as one of the worst disasters this together, will affect millions. And that's just for starters. Minutes after the shaking begins, a vast tsunami and inundating hundreds of thousands of square By the time the wave recedes, North America disaster. The culprit behind all this misery? The Cascadia Megathrust Fault, an offshore energy, it'd make the fabled San Andreas But rather than being a hypothetical, this Estimates for it happening in the next fifty a terrifying one in three. Today, we're exploring both the history The Orphan Wave The day before the wave came, there was no It had been a mostly clear afternoon across The sun was shining, the air was cold and Apart from a few cloud patches here and there, could hope to get in winter. Significantly, no-one in the whole of Edo There had been none of the earthquakes that Fire. That meant, as people went to bed that evening, that would soon befall them. Shortly after midnight ticked over on the year of the Genroku era - or what we would It came silently, with no warning. End to end, it measured something in the region But it wasn't the length of the tsunami At its peak, the water reached 16 and a half The worst struck was the Miyako Bay area. In Kuwagasaki, 13 houses were washed away, buildings. At Tsugaruishi, the waters cascaded half a and nearly wiping out a shrine. All along the eastern coast, rice paddies in government storehouses. The most-dramatic moment may have come at as the castle moat was breached. But even in lesser-effected areas, people Yet, once the waters had finally receded, on. It was that the wave had happened at all. Japanese records on the relationship between the six century. It's all part and parcel of surviving in in the world. But the 1700 tsunami had come without a tremor. It had simply appeared in the night - a God dickish version of Poseidon. Had Edo Period Japan been less isolationist, only ones grappling with the mystery. Some 4,600 miles away, the Native tribes of what they'd just seen. Roughly ten hours before the orphan wave swept of the Nuu-chah-nulth people, the Makah, the violently, transforming the landscape. Unlike the Japanese, though, the Indigenous keep written records. Instead, they recorded their histories orally, and great events from the past. And the events of that night were, without ever seen. Shadow of the Thunderbird The night Thunderbird attacked, she gave no It was a dark and miserable evening, the sort when you live in the Pacific Northwest and In the midst of this gloom, Thunderbird suddenly She picked up her nemesis Whale in her talons Far up in the night sky she dropped him, and The force of his body shook the world. In the bay, the waters receded, pulled back The wisest ones saw what this would mean, They were the ones who survived. After the battle came the flood. As the waters rolled back in, villages disappeared. People were swept away. Those who survived saw strange sights after, The battle between Thunderbird and Whale was For some who later told the stories, Thunderbird For others, she was the evil one, attacking Yet others insisted the battle took place Thunderbird and Transformer, the one who created But the mythic battle between these two great for the shaking Earth and the flood that night Further afield, vastly different Indigenous On Vancouver Island, the First Nations Huu-ay-aht giant mountain. That night, they invited a man to dance around But the man accidentally kicked the drum and From that moment on, wherever he walked, his No sooner had he set foot outside the mountain swept whole villages away. Down in northern California, the Yurok people They claimed a being called Earthquake who the coast. Every footstep caused the land to split open According to an oral history collected over on a big hill and performed a jumping dance But while he'd finally left, the devastation When they descended the hill again, the Yurok under a layer of water. The tale the Tolowa people told was even scarier. They focused not on Earthquake or even the Everyone the water touched was immediately The only Tolowa to survive were a teenage by climbing up a hill. When they came down ten days later, the entire sand, and it was only their children that There are dozens more stories like these, history. But they all have one thing in common. They are the only surviving accounts of what What happened when the Cascadia Megathrust in 1700, just off the coast of the Pacific Registering at least 9.0 on the Richter Scale, from California to British Colombia, and triggered Yet while these stories would still be told think to take them seriously as a part of No-one would ever assume they were anything By the time modern scientists figured out too late. The Beast Below Now that we've seen what the Cascadia subduction form - now might be a good time to discuss Like, where did it come from, and how the powerful enough to create their own myth-cycles? The first part of that question is easy. Just off the west coast of the US, the vast with the much smaller oceanic plate of Juan However, this is "smaller" on a relative Juan de Fuca still measures ninety thousand Plates like these are always on the move. Grinding along and rearranging themselves us from a world where you have supercontinents of today. In an ideal world, all this super-slow moving Tectonic plates would inch along over the But this isn't an ideal world. And, in our less-than-ideal world, these plates Where they get stuck, you get faults. And where you get faults, you often get earthquakes. The most famous fault of all is probably the That fault is caused by two plates moving case the North American and the Pacific plates When enough pressure builds, the plates finally fault. But there are other types of fault out there, ways. Cascadia is one such fault. Off the coast of Oregon, the Juan de Fuca under the North American plate - a process It should be sliding neatly underneath, but As a result, the North American plate is compressing, one and a half inches a year. As the plate compresses, pressure builds. When it finally gets too much for the Earth all that energy will be unleashed. The result? Well, let's just look at a list of famous Alaska, 1964. Death toll: 131. Chile, 1960. Death toll: up to 7,000. Japan, 2011. Death toll: over 18,000. In other words, the potential is there for But that's only its potential. Although the fault runs between 600 and 700 to Vancouver Island - not all regions are The central zone is pretty quiet. Almost silent. On the other hand, the northern and southern This is both interesting, and somewhat relieving, all at once. The most likely possibility for the next major focused around north California, will go. In that case, the resulting quake would register Now that's still big. About as big as the fabled San Andreas Big But it's not an Armageddon-sized event. In modern history, the US has had at least took place outside Alaska. On the other hand, it's possible that the Known as a full margin rupture, this could Because the Richter scale is logarithmic, 30 times bigger than anything the San Andreas It would be the joint-biggest quake in US and the joint second biggest quake the world But the weird thing is that the Cascadia almost If you live in the Pacific Northwest, chances quake - the sort of quake that wakes you up, burritos the night before. This lack of serious quakes is almost the along a subduction zone. And it's the reason no-one discovered what By then, we'd already spent centuries building towns in American history. Finding the Fault That we discovered Cascadia at all is down to pure, When Lewis and Clark arrived in Oregon in the last full margin rupture in 1700. The land they found was peaceful, quiet. Seemingly the ideal place to build new settlements. Never mind all those persistent Native American all shaky. That was just a load of buffalo dung, right? White settlers continued to think that all Even when geologists identified the Cascadia all like: "Well, there's never been a serious quake Must be an aseismic fault!" In fact, they were so sure Cascadia was inactive began planning a slew of nuclear power plants Just before giving the greenlight, the Commission Survey and make sure the fault was as harmless The USGS came back with two possibilities. Possibility one: Cascadia really was a super-quiet Possibility two: it was a Chile-style fault. This made everyone immediately sit up and Chile is a big deal in the field of earthquakes, Earth. The largest quake in recorded history took 7,000. That quake, too, was caused by a subduction If Cascadia really was like Chile - mostly knew what it might be capable of? Over the next few years, scientists began signs of a previous megaquake. By 1984, they'd begun to find evidence of But not enough to actually declare Cascadia Finally, geologist Ruth Ludwin of the University There might be no written records of a pre-European oral histories? So they checked westcoast tales for likely What they found was terrifying. There were upwards of 40 myths, spread across a massive quake and tsunami. When those that could be dated were given clustered around 1700. Clearly, something was going on. Over the next few years, more and more rigorous At last, in 1996, scientists writing in Nature unleashed the Big One. At 9pm on January 26, 1700, a 9.0 magnitude Two impossibly big waves had formed, one rushing the other whisking off toward Japan, where But the worrying news didn't stop there. By analyzing deposits left by the tsunamis, many times in history Cascadia had ruptured. The number they arrived at was 41 megaquakes That may sound like a long time, but when rupture every 250-odd years. No, your math doesn't deceive you. 1700 plus 250 means we should've been expecting In other words, we're now very much overdue So let's find out what will happen when Disaster As we mentioned earlier, there are multiple "argh!" to "AAAAARGH!". For simplicity's sake, this section is gonna 9.2 on the Richter scale. This, then, is how it might play out. The first thing you'll notice is that all That's because the compression wave will built into earthquakes, but one only certain Sadly, humans aren't among those animals, this is weird, all the dogs are freaking out." Enjoy those long seconds of confusion while It may well be the last time you'll ever Roughly 30 seconds after Fido starts going At first it will be freaky. But then the shaking will last longer and it will go from worrying to actively life-threatening. Unlike California, the Pacific Northwest only That means any structure built before the As the shaking increases, houses will start Schools will collapse. Airports. Fire stations. All told, it's thought that up to a million Three thousand schools could collapse, along Thousands will be crushed to death. Tens of thousands will be trapped in the rubble. And this is only the beginning. As gas lines rupture, fires will break out. The electrical grid will fail. Up to half of all highway bridges will fall Remember that awful bridge collapse in Italy Well, now imagine that scenario repeating California to British Colombia. Elsewhere, the quake will trigger deadly landslides alone. Inland, dams will fail, causing floods. There will be chemical spills, gas leaks, By the time the shaking subsides, 6 minutes Northwest will be unrecognizable. Up to 75 percent of buildings will have been There will be a cascade of separate disasters spills. In short, the aftermath of the quake will But you'll have no time to stop and think The moment the fault ruptured, the northwest feet, and rebounded up to a hundred feet west. A lot of this movement will have happened wave out at sea that is now rushing toward Those dazed minutes of horror after the ground And, believe me, running is exactly what you'll Bad as the quake itself will be, it will have When the tsunami hits, everything will get Drowning Man When the Cascadia tsunami arrives, you'll At its lowest point, the water will reach At its highest, it will crest over 100ft. When it reaches the coast, it will be moving from boats to cars to human bodies along with At this point, our narrative branches into when the quake strikes. If it happens in winter, then the maximum number of people who live in the inundation Since many of them will run for high ground, But even in this better-case scenario, it's will be too elderly or disabled to escape But if the quake hits during a summer holiday could be looking at carnage on an unprecedented In Oregon alone, it's estimated over 150,000 17,000 at risk in Washington State. That's not even including those on Vancouver Altogether, you could be looking at nearly Some would escape. Most wouldn't. As the seawater moves inland, over 100,000 Buildings that survived the quake will be Entire towns will drown. When the New Yorker interviewed Fema regional tsunami's aftermath, he cheerfully replied: "Our operating assumption is that everything For those not up on their US geography, this also Eugene, Salem, and - up in Canada - Victoria, About half an hour after the compression wave By then, seven million people will have been The statistics will be brutal. Fema estimates that, given a winter quake, 27,000 injured - easily making it the worst On top of that, up to a million people will be in urgent need of food and fresh water. But this is just in winter. Were the wave to strike when Oregon's beaches public holiday in summer, then the death toll At time of writing, the worst North American which killed between 100,000 and 160,000 people. Horrible as it is to say, a summer Cascadia But, before you go rushing to build an earthquake-proof just remember: this probably won't happen The odds of Cascadia unleashing its full might That's about ten times higher than we'd Much more likely is an 8.0 quake that's rather than the thousands. So, yeah. Realistically, the Cascadia probably isn't Still, just in case we do happen to live in there's something else you should probably We've been aware for a while that the Cascadia together just offshore of Mendocino County. A couple of years ago, researchers decided By dating the geological remains of previous remains of Cascadia quakes, they were able Over the last 3,000 years, a major Cascadia also rupture between 9 and 11 times. That means that, almost every time Cascadia San Andreas also bringing about the earthquake Just think. The sheer, staggering death toll in this video Unaffected by Cascadia, LA and San Francisco all their own. Such a one-two punch would affect every single Its would cause chaos all the way from Canada And there's a little under a one in ten As this video ends, we'll leave you with It's often said we should live every day It's a somewhat trite saying, one that essentially and make the most of what you have. Well, if you live on the west coast of America, Because if Cascadia goes off, it really will The end of everything you've ever known.