What to do if you find a mine? That's right, you need to get away from this place. And report this to the command and neighboring units. Because a land mine was found, it shouldn't be here. New positions are already being prepared in the back, but people do not know about him. And undermining this landmine can lead to undesirable consequences. We don't know who installed it. We just got information. Now it needs to be removed. We even know that they were set up in this area without booby traps. But we do not trust this information and work as if they are installed. We opened the place, found the control line, and brought him here along the control line. Inspection along the path of the control line is difficult, due to the fact that the ground has already seized. We carried out an inspection of the path of the control line, and found such weakly camouflaged, but undiscovered charges by anyone before. They've dug up a bit already. What's next? First, you need to inspect the area around, because they can be hedged by other devices. Then you need to arrange a comfortable place for yourself. Of course, the most convenient tool is a pruner. You can just cut off such branches on the way to the place. Even like this, though it's harder. We chop off and make ourselves a comfortable place. We have prepared the place and start the inspection. For inspection we need two tools. This is a spatula (you can use this or the garden type) and a probe. The most awesome probe is a thin sharpened screwdriver, around 3 millimeters. We need to take a comfortable position. If there are no knee pads, you can throw a podzhopnik. And let's start the inspection. First you need to study the area in order to understand the dimensions of the device. And before removing the soil, you need to check it for the presence of traps. There may be different things, I won't say what exactly, otherwise they will start using them. And with the help of the probe, I begin the inspection. Work gloves are also very important. Those who say that sappers work without gloves, they did not work. Because there are a large number of tasks, and if you work with your bare hands, you will quickly kill them. Here, I found a failure. There's nothing. Here... Aha... I punched on this point, he rested. I shifted. Yeah, he passed, that's how much. I fixed it with my finger. I moved. Yep, didn't find it here. I change the angle. Yep, found it. We understand that something else may lie at such a depth. We carefully remove it ... Having caught on some edge, we begin the autopsy. The first time I came across the root. The hand is already there. There's something else worth it. We realized that there is something worth it, there are failures. Let's start cleaning up. Booby traps can be installed not only for unloading action. Tension action booby traps are periodically used for safety net. A. It was deep there, but not here. Look straight ahead with a dipstick. Oh, and failures. I watch carefully. A. Look here. See the blue wires? These are used in electric detonators. So, I understand, the node of initiation is here. The node of initiation, we need it. I'm carefully releasing... Even if you find an electric detonator, don't rush to pull it out. Because it might be different. Although there is TNT, it is relatively safe. He's out of his nest a little. I'll try to insert it ... It doesn't work. Yes, we are looking further. Now we need to inspect the control line. We already have something to cling to. Clean up the area carefully. Everything means somewhere around here. Yes. Here, we went in the direction, found a knot. Now I have verified that the node is connected directly to the electric detonator... The node is connected to the electric detonator. There could be a branching, a non-extraction device, reconnaissance and signaling equipment. But no, he goes to the electric detonator. And now, having found these nodes, we can one by one... We made sure that these are single-core wires. And one... Two... The electric detonator is de-energized. And now there is no control line on it. I always watch how easy he walks. It comes out easily, which means there are no systems there. The electric detonator went out. We removed the main key danger. Disarmed and put aside. But the next danger still remains: the presence of booby traps. We inspect the reveal around the perimeter, because the hooks can be behind the body. In the area of the detonator, because there is a thread there. Maybe the detonator is unscrewed, something is screwed on, and screwed again. And the target sensor goes below. Methods may vary. Now we need to inspect these areas. We have already found the detonation unit, we are working more calmly. In general, it was possible to dig it out, pull the wires and move on. So do many. But I prefer to play it safe. Now I want to inspect the nose of this projectile. Yes, look what's here. Inverted TM. And here is another TM. Here. Could there be something under TM? Of course it can. But we pay attention to shells because we found them first. Well, everyone checked it out. There and there and in the center there are no bindings. Yes, there are many traps. We examined two main nodes. Well, that's all, they detonated the detonator with an intermediate charge (militant). It was not installed quite professionally, because the charge is at the end, and it is not clear what the TM is installed on. Now we tie up and pull off two TM detonators. Removed art. shells, then in the same way we pull off the TM with the help of cats. As you can see, the mine is so good in terms of power. And there is a whole network of them here. And even though we know from preliminary information that they were installed without booby traps, we will still bully everyone according to such an inspection algorithm. But you can not do this, it's all at the choice of the sapper. Take care of yourself, friends.