The Peloponnesian Wars are perhaps the most in the history of the Mediterranean. The titanic and Sparta, an established hegemon, is well-recorded much discussion amongst classicist, philosopher, conflict is almost impossible to discuss in prelude and aftermath are almost as sizeable Peloponnesian War video, we will discuss various changed over time. In this long-form video, one large narrative, and also add a few battles ensure our story is as accurate as possible. Wars, their battles and their politics. The peloponnesian war is so studied because and the military strategy behind it all follows The ancient Greek world after the Battles Persian Empire was soundly defeated, was a invasions. The various city-states of the to survive the Persian onslaught, from fighting, Sparta, a traditional hegemon, had stood defiant were thankful. Meanwhile, another up-and-coming was gaining momentum. This city-state was had been a marginal player in the Greek world Athens and Sparta had both played key roles over what to do after the King of Kings had in its foreign policy and content with its wish to fight further. Athens, emboldened to the Hellespont and Asia Minor, claiming there still under Persian rule. As a result, cities was formed, with Athens at its head. and liberating Greek cities, and whose military fund on its titular island of Delos. The expansion an Athenian Empire, and the anxiety it caused drivers of the war. In response to growing was founded in 550 BCE under the Spartan purview states to stay under the Spartan influence. Pact during the Cold War, created a delicate each would rebel and try to switch sides during In the prelude to War, described by Thucydides event was the construction of the Long Walls from Sparta, who looked upon the constructions trepidation. Themistokles, of Battle of Salamis to sort out the differences. Themistocles long enough for Athens to begin construction was finally linked to the city proper via moment when Athens humiliated Sparta was the slaves of the Spartan state, were fed up with Spartan regime, and revolted. Athens offered rebuked by the proud warrior city-state. Eventually, Sparta was only good with hoplite warfare. and military prestige continued to grow, as and Asia Minor. Major campaigns even took largely failures with many losses for the 451 BCE, saw an Athenian victory but the death vibrant Athenian democracy, with its constantly as the uncontested top dog within its alliance. located in the sanctuary in Delos, was moved which were meant to support all the leagues' in Athens itself, much to the dismay of Athens' a city in Ionia revolted against Athens, and Nevertheless, Athens' power was not dented. funds seized from Delos also assisted with continued to export its naval power abroad Cyprus for an Asia Minor free from Persian to expand its influence through the establishment a traditionally independent part of the Hellenic wars of expansion, it was also changing at Perikles had initiated multiple democratic Looking towards the sea, a policy continued of a strong navy for the promotion of Athenian fought against Athens, one of which was Aegina defeated Aegina, besieging and conquering Soviet Historiography has actually called role in forging the alliances that followed BCE, with the obscure battle of Oenoe, where in common interests and defeated the Spartans the Athenians defeated 70 ships of Aegina happened in conjunction with Delian campaigns but we will focus on the Hellenic mainland. battle but set the stage in the on-and-off while Athens began its goal of extending influence strength at sea being balanced out by insecurity As the war began, Megara, which was having Athenian assistance and temporarily joined major battles occurred almost concurrently: first battle unfolded because of the conflict Sparta sent 1,500 hoplites with 10,000 allied tame Phocia. Athens responded by sending its they were also afraid of Sparta leading internal was chosen as the battleground as the Spartans territory or through the sea, which the Athenians allies and their own contingent coming up but the Spartans ended up winning, restored and retreated back to the Peloponnese. Athens on to Oenophyta. There, they fought the Boeotians the walls of Tanagra and then completing their However, the war in Egypt began to strain to lose ground in Greece as well. Because Cimon in 451 BCE. Athens negotiated a peace Kallias. This treaty solidified Athenian control Cyprus to Persia, allowing Athens to return Sparta was continuing its conflict with Phocia, centre of Delphi. Sparta initiated the Second out the Phocians. In their place, they placed Perikles was at the time considering a restrained sacred oracle to be under Spartan control. the Spartans out, re-installing the Delphic of from the war is the battle of Coronaea. exiles tried to return and reassert their ensure its Boeotian gains were solidified Initial success was had in the capture of into Coronaea, they were ambushed by the Boeotians, Tolmidas. pre-war status quo. Fearing Athens would soon many other cities in the Delian league revolted, a Samian-Milesian dispute, which had begun for help, and after failed mediation, Perikles in Samos, and put a fine on the city. As soon tried to free themselves of the Athenian yoke. another Ionian city that was a hub for the Chalkidiki. The nearby Persian satrap Pissuthunes spread, and Mytilene would be keen to revolt 70 triremes into the region, crushing the Peloponnesian League sent help, dooming the was the undisputed hegemonic master of the Initially, Perikles was a conservative and avoid conflict with Sparta. Archidamus II, to avoid conflict, continuing in the long In fact, in 445 BCE, the two cities had signed into spheres of influence between them. This BCE are considered to be a sort of Cold War itself with Athens and Megara with Sparta. the expansion of trade interests caused much and the most powerful secondary actor in the a major naval power with many colonies, which One such city was Epidamnus, which saw conflict In 435 BCE, a Democratic coup took place, Illyrian tribes. The resulting conflict drew colony, but they initially did not intervene. from Corcyra's own mother colony, Corinth. herself, called upon the Athenians for assistance, Sparta's sphere of influence.Corcyra and Battle of Sybota, which flared up the situation The Battle of Sybota was part of the broader between 435-431 BCE. In 433 BCE, Corinth parked a standoff with the Corcyreans, sailed home alarmed the Corcyraeans, who were not part for assistance. Corinth also sent envoys to the Athenians decided to help Corcyra and to not attack Corinthian ships unless an invasion defensive alliance. Corcyra and their allies had 120 ships. The Corfu, anchored in the small islet chain called which the battle takes its name. To their During nightfall, Corinth put their fleet in three squadrons, with Athens on the right allies were on the right, Corinth's ships were in the centre. The two fleets faced each of javelin throwers and hoplites meant that with much hand-to-hand fighting as people was restrained and attacked only if Corcyraeans the Corinthian left was faced with the Corcyraean Athens rolled in, but in the end, both they The Corinthians went to collect their dead, that they were going to land on Corfu. As Right on time, Athenian reinforcements arrived retreated. The next day, Corinth saw the enemy asking if Athens and Corinth were at war. forcing Corinth to retreat. This bizarre stalemate a topic of division allegedly only solved in Olympus. after their stalemate in Sybota, Athens further on the city of Megara in 432 BCE. The so-called himself, and was meant to be a form of revenge sacred meadows by the Megarians. The reality Megarians had backed Corinth, which made them that Athens forsake the Decree, and also insisted continued to be intransigent, and continued such city was Potidaea, a Corinthian colony including annual magistrate visits. Athens communications with Corinth and pull down Athens and Sparta, but negotiations broke enforce the ultimatum. an alliance with the cities of the Chalcidice They were aided by the Macedonian king, Perdiccas, Athens's 30 ships and 1000 hoplites, under fought Perdiccas, as Archestratus anticipated with the wishes of Athens and increase their League had made some unofficial guarantees and 400 light troops to Potidaea as well, informal volunteers so as to not violate the In response, Athens increased its commitment under the command of Callias. After some fighting sailed to Potidaea and landed there alongside Alliance numbered 1600 hoplites, 200 light the Macedonian city of Therme and immediately reinforcements joining as soon as they arrived. Perdiccas, as Perikles had instructed him rather than focus on the Macedonian front. and concentrated all their forces against their allies and six hundred Macedonian cavalry, their seventy ships sailed along the coast. and Perdiccas, who had already broken his Athens, was selected to command the cavalry. in two. The Corinthians and Potidaeans positioned the Chalcidians, Macedonians and other allies to trap the Athenians, by luring them into up from Olynthus to encircle them. and sent the Athenian-supporting Macedonian The Athenians then attacked the main allied in routing the Athenians but the Athenians wings of the enemy force. Aristeus was almost the city of Potidaea. The Peloponnesian League down only 150, Callias amongst them. The Athenians and then built a wall to the north of the south was encircled with Athenian reinforcements son of Asopius. This army landed at Pallene, to the south to completely blockade the city. told the citizens to evacuate by sea, and The civilians ignored this call, so Aristeus Chalcidician and Peloponnesian assistance, the summer of 430 BCE, when further Athenian This force was commanded by Hagnon of Nicias 4,000 hoplites, 300 cavalry, 100 triremes 430 BC a plague had begun to ravage Athens, troops at Potidea, where it killed 1,050 of his siege engines not being able to breach returned to Athens. However, despite Athens' of 430/429, Potidaea had been almost starved recorded. Athens by this time was already them and Potidaea cost them 2,000 hoplites they agreed to lenient terms of surrender. auxiliary troops would be allowed to walk woman could take two garments with them, each the journey. The Athenians kept control over As Potidaea was being besieged, Sparta organised assembly, in which various foreign dignitaries blockade, spoke first and demanded Sparta also spoke, maintaining how they had warned the evil imperialism of the Athenians, bringing was complicit in Athenian imperialism by being which immediately declared that they did not equals. They then proceeded to claim that champions of Hellas against the Persians, by their own deeds. In addition, they said, they would only take their place as hegemons These speeches are approximations of Thucydides's and thus are fabricated. They do, however, of the various actors, as well as the general also claimed that they had been, in fact, warning the Spartans that they could muster After Athens had had its say, Archidamos, He addressed the dignitaries by mentioning Attica. However, he himself was not of the that if they started war now, that war could all these speeches, the Apella voted by shouting, The result was a profound yes to war. Sparta in order to avoid further escalation. However, Ultimately, it will never be certain whether was indeed inevitable. However, the actions contributed to the eventual outbreak of hostilities, for Athenian expansionism, and Corinth's restrained, but also had a war party that While Thucydides claimed that the fear of historians debate how true this was, and no What we do know is that after a long period the Delian and Peloponnesian Leagues were Wars would last decades and see stories of They would see large geopolitical ploys across within the city-states which fought in the amongst the people of Hellas, suffering not Wars began... multi-part conflict, the first phase of which War', a name stemming from the Spartan King decision. This phase of the conflict lasted its causes and conditions: Sparta technically were on their side as they saw the Athenians itself claimed to be a liberator of Hellas of the free world'. Meanwhile, Athens proclaimed repressive oligarchies. This mutual finger-pointing, Century, hid cynical geopolitical agendas. thorough habit of describing wars year-by-year, and reliable primary source that allows us shifting alliances pretty easily. invading Attica, Athens' breadbasket. Almost and their allies would invade this region In retaliation, Athens blocked the Gulf of did not stop the burnings in Attica from resulting and pillaging, and many refugees from the of Athens proper for protection. Immediately, Athenians, who questioned why he had dragged panic by advising that their war would be navy would be able to win the day, so long in ground combat, where the Spartan hoplites the initial pillaging spree, the Spartans in the harvest, as was the custom. Thus given of Athens held a public funeral to honor the Logos, or Funeral Oration at this funeral. Perikles's and Athens's ideology. We can honors the dead as heroes of the Athenian (...)I would have you day by day fix your become filled with the love of her; and when glory, reflect that this empire has been acquired to do it, who in the hour of conflict had and who, if ever they failed in an enterprise, their country, but freely gave their lives could present at her feast. The sacrifice repaid to them; for they received again each and the noblest of all tombs, I speak not of that in which their glory survives, and occasion both in word and deed. For the whole are they commemorated by columns and inscriptions there dwells also an unwritten memorial of of men. (...) song that tries to frame the deaths of Athenians democratic ideal. Unlike the strictly militaristic for its participation in both mercantile and as outgoing and linked to the sea, and their Rather ironically, one year after Perikles Perikles himself died of it. Thucydides respects vanguardist leader. to lift the Athenian blockade off of the coast coastal settlement. The Athenian navy was troops to both Potidaea in Macedonia, and while the Peloponnesian League had sent 47 had only 20 ships to stand against them. On amassed 1,000 Hoplites from Sparta as well a nearby city of Acarnania. In response, the called Phormio, the man responsible for controlling to lead a direct assault on Rhium. These two fortune. The Rhium and Antirhium are found comes the closest to touching the rest of Isthmus. Hence, it was both the easiest to attack. ships in their midst, and so decided to use vulnerable cargo-bearing vessels as they sailed sending help to Acarnania, but instead focused innovator in naval maneuvering, utilized the the heavily fortified Peloponnesian triremes, With twenty triremes of his own, he fanned and began to move ever closer. Approaching false dash attack to force the Peloponnesian were incapable of fighting back, though they their attack. Phormio had noticed that winds they could use that against the Peloponnesians. the Peloponnesians fell victim to the fickle crashing into each other, at which point the was utterly crushed, with the Athenians capturing on the shore, Cnemus had reached the Acarnanian three divisions. The left was manned by Spartans The center was made up of barbarian mercenaries, right. Cnemus himself was keen to encamp the the center division, hoping for pillage and wishes. They eventually faced the Stratians, in close combat. Thus, the barbarians were were caught by surprise, and formed ranks, them, so they did not press their advantage. the rest of the Acarnians were sending reinforcements, the survivors of the Peleponessian fleet on and the engagement at Stratia, the Athenians victors. that of Naupaktos, which took place in the where he was based. After the failed battle fleet went to Cyllene in the west, where they received more reinforcements. Athens also Crete, so he only had his twenty ships. He with his enemies on the other side, the Peloponnesian low numbers, but so were the Peloponnesians his comrades that he would not fight in the forced his hand. The Peloponnesians formed forward, and the hoplites on shore. They began so Phormio entered the straits to prevent and tried to trap the Athenians. Nine ships Athenian ships escaped. The nine crews either chased by the twenty fast Peloponnesian ships. from each fleet went adrift, and the ten Athenian adrift ships arrived, Athens rammed a merchant ships into fighting once more. The Peloponnesians by the disciplined Athenian onslaught. They their comrades and captured six Peloponnesian battle, but the Athenians held off until their of the Gulf of Corinth. Athenians, took place in Spartolus near the An army of 2,000 Athenian hoplites and 200 the son of Euripides), marched up north in of anti-Athenian sentiment from formerly coastal city itself was fortified, however, as Athens peltasts and auxiliaries from Spartolos, nearby the city to meet them. Athens's hoplites retreated back into the city, but the goddess peltast reinforcements arrived just after Athenians. The defenders were encouraged by back into the camp and tried to push back. peltasts moved back, and upon Athenian retreat, Athenians while the cavalry also assaulted generals, were killed, and the rest moved The death of Perikles allowed for some of like Lesbos. These were quickly dispatched at the time. Mytilene was another, and they the nearby islands. We will return to the is that Thebes, an ally of Sparta and keen Initially, 300 Theban hoplites approached let them in. These two Plataeans were hoping factions in the city. The Plataeans were initially their numerical superiority and killed over captured or escaping . In this dire engagement, dying brethren due to the Asopos river flooding. negotiate the release of Theban prisoners who broke the oaths taken, but the Thebans called for Athenian help, while the Thebans official beginning of the Peloponnesian War. burn the farmlands outside Plataea, something they were not allowed to do due to the holiness agree to protect them if they became neutral, in terms of both geography and ideology, rejected to avoid agreeing to the terms, making the could hold out until Athenian aid arrived. the city, beginning by constructing a wooden mound leading up to the walls, which he tried The Plataeans countered this measure by extending under the walls and burrowing inside the Spartan They also managed to build further fortifications mound, and thus had an additional means of The Spartans also built up siege engines, used lassoes and fire to disable these instruments their way through Plataea's walls for some was fruitless, and decided to simply sit back, Their next step was to start throwing fire part of Plataea was destroyed by fire, but and thus their bombings only ended up amounting failure, the Spartans decided to simply double To that end, the Lacedaemonians built a wall as they did not need most of their troops, Blockades are not a nice affair, and soon, of malnutrition. The Spartan walls essentially for Spartan protection, and the walls inside scouting and keeping sentries. The Spartans so they could live within the walls, manned The Plataeans had before sent off their wives the non-combatants to Athens; so that the 400 of their own citizens, 80 Athenians, and sum total at the commencement of the siege, bond or free. Such were the arrangements made The siege took two years, and inflicted incredible By the winter of 428-427 BC, provisions within to the civilian population. The Plataeans was to be an attempt of the entire male population then decided that it was too dangerous. In They used ladders to climb over the walls, and managed to get across the outer wall before League tried to send 300 men as reinforcements, escapees had fled to Athens. The Plataeans deceiving the besiegers, who attempted to 212 of the escapees managed to reach Athens. due to the darkness and the storm that was Even though the escapees managed to reach The Athenians were continuing to follow Perikles' with Sparta, and thus didn't send a relief down. By the summer of 427 BCE the Plataeans burnt out and starved, and thus the Spartans the Spartan commander tried to persuade the that when a peace treaty was eventually negotiated, land, and that only those who provoked the Plataeans agreed to those terms and surrendered. at the Plataeans and immediately put pressure foes. As a result, the Plataeans were brought All 200 Plataean and 25 Athenians who had women who had remained in the city to cook Thebans took the land for themselves, and of Plataea , they then burnt the entire city until 381 BCE when Philip of Macedon defeated The start of the Peloponnesian War proved lost their greatest statesman, and then had overwhelming odds in the Peloponnese. However, their allies, something which had cost their start to the war. They had been humiliated the aid of Thebes and had delivered a crushing of the two great powers would continue for and suffering for both sides. of Mytilene in Lesbos revolted against Athens its allies, particularly Boeotia. The Mytilenians but seized upon the opportunity as the Peloponnesian countryside. According to Thucydides, Mytilenes by taking over the entire island of Lesbos. their city and hiring mercenaries from the on Lesbos were not so quick to accept Mytilenaean the Methymnians, instead preferred to stay in Mytilene itself opposed the direction their combined with the people of Tenedos, sent the oligarchs' overtures. Athens was too to intervene at that moment. As such, Mytilene its revolt would succeed. with Mytilene, its plan initially was to attack walls. However, the Mytileneans were warned face them from within their fortified walls. fleet outside the city, they were defeated. pre-emptively sending runners to Sparta to the proceedings. Talks soon collapsed, and the Athenian camp. The Athenians were devastated preferred to be on the defensive and retreated the matter to the Peloponnesian League, which as an ally within its ranks. Sparta then organized her allies were late due to the harvest season. with 100 warships used to raid the Peloponnese. cities of Lesbos, specifically Methymna but begun a proper siege of the rebellious city. starvation and completely reliant on a Spartan fleet was notoriously late in getting there, BCE. All told, the Mytileneans were in a very and help was likely not coming in time. Ultimately, While this may have seemed like an easy triumph After battling the annual invasion into Attica, funding the siege of Mytilene, Athen's finances we enter the infamous Mytilenean Debate, which of the Poets. The Athenians were both aghast insolence of the Mytileneans who had brought forward to execute all male citizens of Mytilene was dispatched to do the deed, but a day later, pillars of their society speaking out against pushing for the massacre was Cleon, a man man in Athens. He claimed that Athens, instead and that expediency was key. As such, punishment Do not, therefore, be traitors to yourselves, of suffering and the supreme importance which now pay them back in their turn, without yielding that once hung over you. Punish them as they striking example that the penalty of rebellion you will not have so often to neglect your confederates. the punishment. He urged that Athens act in &quot;Confess, therefore, that this is the wisest to pity or to indulgence, by neither of which to be influenced, upon the plain merits of try calmly those of the Mitylenians whom Paches undisturbed. This is at once best for the the present moment since good policy against of brute force.&quot; In the end, Athens reversed trireme was dispatched and reached Mytilene demos. It was a rare moment of mercy in a had to note as extraordinary. BCE came about, and debates in the agora were they decided on a massive assault on Boeotia states. Athens had many allies in neighbouring to occur on their terms. The Athenians initially Demosthenes, who was to sail across the Peloponnese the others to attack in Tanagra, Melos and amass a large force of his allies from Messenia, to lay siege to Leuca. However, as he wanted reinforcements from Phocis to go to Aetolia Demosthenes continued on and reached Locris, Aetolia. However, the Aetolians had received easily defeat the Athenians. Ranged units great weakness during this period, and the regard. As Demosthenes approached towns like formed bands of guerilla warriors and fled the defenders attacked the Athenians constantly, to retaliate at all via arrow fire. To compound leading to more chaos among his troops. The Athenian expeditionary force, with above-average was forced to retreat to his previous base as his reputation was tarnished. Hence, he victories at sea at Olpae and Idomene. essence, as they happened in the background tried to invade the city of Naupaktos after 3,000 hoplites. These hoplites besieged the promised to help the Athenians but had decided took the outer walls and defeated the Naupaktian time. Demosthenes, hearing of the siege, asked dashed to the city, forcing the Spartan commander to go to the Amphilochian city of Argos and the Ambraciots, promised to help him with took positions on a hill at Proschium. The hoplites, and the combined forces met at Olpae. and the nearby hill of Orpae, and asked Demosthenes arriving with twenty triremes and 200 Messenian and camped opposite a ravine. The Peloponnesians allies, then mixed contingents in the centre and Amphilochian javelin throwers, with Demosthenes first, the Ambraciots broke through their towards Argos. He also tried to outflank Demosthenes hidden 400 hoplites and light troops in bushes troops sprung forth behind the Peloponnesian alongside the centre, besides the disciplined time to see the absolute style chaos besieging to Olpae. Still, the Acarnanians attacked himself was slain in the battle, and the successor, retreat to safety. Ever the populist, Demosthenes the second allowed only Menedaios, the Mantineans, is possibly so as to make them look bad, which the Spartans in retreat and lost 200 more Idomene occurred two days later, as Demosthenes south were moving towards the south from Ambracia. and the two forces camped on the hills of and the Ambraciots on the lower hill. Demosthenes Amphilochians, Messenians, and Athenians. he put the Dorian Messenians first in order dialect. At dawn, they attacked the Ambraciots, guard by the Doric-speaking ninja attack. dying while in retreat through harsh terrain. it was one of the biggest casualty rates of however, was a surprise one. The Acarnanians, a mutual peace treaty that they would work side was involved; this was most likely due strong in the region. revolted against Athens after a successful do so. As a counterplay, Demosthenes developed to raid Sparta with the help of the Messenians. but due to storms, the Athenian fled, ended there. During this period, the annual invasion King Agis heard of Athenian Marines landing his armies back to Sparta and sent both troops from Zakynthos. Brasidas and Thrasymelidas, while Athens controlled only 60. Sparta began ships and blocking the island of Sphacteria strategic insight, Demosthenes determined and took a small contingent with him there. Sparta began its attack under Thrasymelidas, but the harbour was too small for them all made repeated sorties into the bay, but were on the fortifications also failed, and after abandoned active attacks and dug in for a themselves, the Athenian fleet arrived and which saw heavy damages inflicted on the Spartan the bay between Sphacteria and Pylos, where trapped between the Spartan version of the they managed to push off the Spartans until 420 Spartan hoplites under Epitades were now situation, so the Spartans sent some officials no longer be sent to the island, the officials foe. Sparta's unique constitution, based and the military force, meant that every loss run, hence their eagerness to negotiate. Athens's far in the war was to be returned were too The fighting resumed, with Athens besieging by Sparta to send supplies to Sphacteria were as well. The infamous Cleon, ever the populist, with Sparta and was now backed into a corner. lack of success on Nicias, the current commander of Athens was not having it, demanding why, why did Cleon did not take over the operation. he amassed some extra troops and proclaimed Cleon arrived on the scene, the Spartans had ablaze, which revealed many landing points sent envoys out again, but the Spartans rejected Split across three camps, with Epitades in one facing Pylos, the Spartans finally faced middle of the night. The first Spartan post followed in the landing. Alongside the seamen the central Spartan position. Hence, the main to attack from both flanks. The Athenians rained hell upon the Spartans. The latter as a last resort position. They withstood League could not break into the fort. After light troops and archers and marched across fort from the high ground and began pelting During the commotion, Epitades was killed, and once more called for negotiations via to surrender, but despite this, the heralds' of fatigue and preference for surrender. Ultimately, The Athenians were shocked but also gleeful. the island, 292 survivors were captured and or full Spartan citizens, with the rest most the surrender spread throughout the Greek had a tradition of never surrendering, regardless of Spartan hoplites had given themselves up of many Greeks. The Spartan state was perhaps diplomatic situation for them. Much like famous today, this matter dragged on for years, and from Athenian or Delian captivity were essential The past four years of war had been chaotic of Attica continued and Athens recovered from revolt in its hands with Mytilene. They succeeded their allies. Chaos also ensued on the front victories later, it was still an incredible back and not only scored victories at sea Sphacteria. Athens now had the upper hand had faltered. The Athens had overstretched, started losing momentum. The Archidamian War epic battles must occur before it is decided. there will be too much hubris from victories stop and for war to return to Greek homes. come to its shores, giving Hellenes a chance While Athens was fighting Sparta in Pylos further expeditions. Boeotia, the region of many cities which were rivals of Athens, such in Sphacteria, Cleon, the infamous populist re-elected into power in 424 BCE alongside seen this as a victory for the Warhawks of Thucydides showed that conservative restraint A campaign was decided against Boeotia in decided to attack the perioikoi of the Spartans Peloponnese. The Athenian fleet subdued Kythera station garrisons on the island as staging Further west, Athenian fortunes were faring succeeded only in taking the city of Messina, of Syracuse reduced the Athenian to a defensive their military efforts on the campaign in a city which had suffered from annual Athenian the Peloponnesian League had done to Attica. had resulted in civil conflict in the city which Athens adroitly exploited. The Democratic league and fearful of a coup, turned to Athens break through the Long Walls connecting Megara of Nisaea, then they would surrender Megara Athens set out to do just that, coming in allies. The gates were opened, and the port but the Athenians had opposition ahead, for general Brasidas was encamped. When Brasidas he sent word throughout the cities of Boeotia. Corinth, 700 from Sicyon and 400 from Phlious they had arrived, Athens had taken Nisaea's hostage. Brasidas did not try to take back waiting for the inevitable Athenian withdrawal. into their city, but eventually, they relented. attack immediately because it would make Athens As such, they continued in a stand-off until Soon after, Megara faced an oligarchic resurgence, had sided with Athens. Megara would remain Peloponnesian Wars, a testament to the truth can gain effective control over a territory. campaign. Demosthenes and Hippokrates initially one by land. A good landing for a naval invasion a part of Boeotia allied to Sparta. Phocis it ideal for controlling communications and Demosthenes was in cahoots with some Phocians whom he hoped to take the city like how they his troops in conjunction with Hippokrates, However, in Phocis, someone had revealed the the pro-Spartan government. Thus, Demosthenes and instead headed to the land of Siphae further much harder for the Athenians, and they lost for now, he had to march to Delium alone. important location. In addition, it was near Hippokrates raised a large landed army against region. This following battle was notorious both active combat and a siege of the small Athenians lost both their commander and the By now, both sides of the war were overstretched, However, this would still need some time to were still at play. In 423 BCE, a one-year lick their wounds and try to establish peace this shift towards a ceasefire involves Thucydides principally in 422 BCE. Amphipolis is a city mines. In 424 BCE, while Delium was amid struggles north into Thrace and besieged the city, which surrounded the city and tried to get traitors among the Amphiporine ranks. Eukles sent forth our Historian Extraordinaire stayed with his famous regional general who would ignite Amphipolis' a deal before his Athenian counterpart arrived. and keep their full properties or leave within After much deliberation, the city surrendered was held fully responsible for the loss and and began to write the account of the war The 423 BCE truce enabled all currently occupied including Amphipolis. Brasidas managed to which was also included in the treaty. Eventually, for its silver mines and grain supplies coming was very much near Amphipolis. To that end, for the glory of Athens, amassing a naval before reaching Amphipolis. Meanwhile, Brasidas his campaign in places not covered by the and 30 ships, he quickly retook Scione. He himself in the city of Eion, the port where then took his troops and moved to the area, both the high ground and a view of Athenian Cleon were now at a stand-off, waiting for now grown to 2,000 hoplites, 300 Greek cavalry, Thracian mercenaries. became increasingly clouded as the two armies troops did not trust their commander Cleon and disgruntled. Thus, Cleon agreed to take historian Donald Kagan disagrees with Thucydides was to inspect the city while waiting for retake the city easily by encirclement. Brasidas siege and wanted to have hidden troops for take 150 of his best men and personally lead were to act as a sort of vanguard, working his second in command, Clearidas, was to organize of the city and attack. This was a risky endeavour, as a distraction and thus throw the Athenian Meanwhile, Cleon was conducting his reconnaissance most of the enemy was in the north. Unwilling ordered his army to retreat through the southernmost fled back to Eion, where the cavalry had also the right-wing began to backtrack as Clearidas peltast allegedly managed to kill the populist for due to his brash nature and demagogy. began to flee before the Myrsinian managed that Cleon fought bravely until the end. Brasidas in disarray and pounced immediately. He led and attacked the Athenian centre, bringing on the Athenian right-wing as Clearidas finally wing was now on its own as the rest had long Here, the adventurous and bold Brasidas met last of the Athenian holdouts. The life bleeding battlefield and would die only after learning lost in battle to Brasidas in the past, Thucydides, respectfully, declaring that he was both shrewd buried in Amphipolis, where he was later commemorated The remaining Athenian right wing went to end. Clearidas and his troops attacked thrice times, but eventually, he surrounded them a rain of projectiles ensued that ruined the and fled back to Eion. By the time they arrived, to Thucydides, the Spartans and their allies ended in a spectacular Spartan victory and on either side of the war. politics in Greece and Sparta were dead. Brasidas's Thrace, understanding that the mood at home still held bases at Pylos and Kythera, leaving in the mood for peace than previously, despite former and raids for the latter. As such, general Nicias, from whom the peace takes Lots of haggling ensued, such as for the Sphacterian prisoners' release from Thebes. Cities in were to become neutral but still pay the tribute the Athenians, not the increased tribute of each alliance except for Plataea, which stayed Athenian control. All temples became open sacred oath taken by the two sides were erected for instance, the city of Amphipolis still Sparta did not like the treaty and refused upon by sides which could neither win nor planned for a long war of this sort, and of had suffered damages. This meant that there the Peloponnesian Wars would not officially world would descend into a cold war as Athens and suspicion. congregated to watch Aristophanes's infamous a sigh of respite, granted, only a temporary The Peace of Nicias was not accepted by all and Megarians, for instance, had not taken which had to return to a quasi-Athenian rule peace deal. Corinth and Thebes were both the Corinth's grievances with Athens had not with aggressive ambition after their conquest situation, for they were no longer the most and were more restrained by their allies than league, like Argos and Mantinea, began to their lot in with Athens. mainland Greece would hinder Athenian interests to build a stable peace on land to recuperate nemesis, was not having this and proceeded pole against both the Apella and the Agora. Peloponnesian League in order to intimidate was terrified of this potentiality. If enough Pact, they would destroy Sparta's geopolitical The Corinthians brought themselves before them some proposals for alliance , which the like Mantinea had also joined this new Corinthian-led were outraged. Corinth also tried to get Boeotia from Sparta, it would lose its protection Tensions between Athens and Boeotia increased instead of returning it to Athens as the peace and Argos began negotiations for a military in Athens led by Hyperbolus and a certain become immensely important throughout the demolition of Panactum to push his pro-war Nicias in the Agora. Alcibiades claimed Sparta struck an alliance with Mantinea, Argos and itself as a champion of democracy among the alliance of democracies attacked Epidauros, geopolitically isolate Corinth once taken. off against the Argives and their Athenian than fight, Agis II, King of Sparta, opted and him leading his troops home. However, and demanded that aggression be met with aggression. to war. on to the city of Tegea. which sent messengers sides. The Spartans reacted quickly, with calls 'the finest in Greece' composed Spartans, 600 Sciritae, 2,000 Neodamodes and the Argive army was about 8,000, including cavalry, 2,000 Mantineans, 1,000 mercenary Aegitans. began to raid the region. The Argives put Agis had his ditch diggers change the watercourse allied Argives descended from the hill and the right, next to the Arcadians, while the the Cleonaeans and Orneans, and the Athenian When the allied army came into view of the to form battle lines. The left comprised the Next came the Arcadians, then the Maenalians Spartans made up the right, while cavalry when they met, spreading out their right wings. Spartans to fill in the gap. The Spartans on the left flank. the Mantineans crushed and Mantineans moved to crush the Spartan them to retreat, however, King Agis held the Spartan rout. Thus, the Spartans defeated managed to outflank the Athenians. It was from complete encirclement. Agis ordered his Athenians to flee. losses during the battle. The Argives lost and Aeginentans 200, including their two generals rather lower, at just over 300. They chased a truce with Argos. In the following year, their attempt to dominate the Peloponnese. alliance collapsed. Despite facing each other still officially at peace, with no terms of After the battle of Mantinea, the peace which strained than ever, and the inner politics and Alcibiades both narrowly avoided ostracism, banishment, Nicias focused on launching expeditions Spartan general Brasidas years prior. In Sparta, Not one year after the Battle of Mantinea, the Argives evicted their oligarchs and tried would be pro-Athens. In response, Agis dashed but destroyed Argos's long walls which linked of Hysiae where an homonymous town was situated time afterwards, the Spartans settled the of Ornae, a hilly town they conquered in 417 Argive exiles, fighting against Argos. In triremes and 1200 hoplites, they besieged siege, in which the Argive exiles within were As 416 BCE came to the fore, polarization pro-peace generals being re-elected. By now, eager to try to expand its interests. A border of Melos, was fated by the Olympians and the This is one of the most famous of Thucydides's lessons and fierce debate. Melos was a Spartan and may have funded the Spartans during the with 30 ships, 1,200 hoplites, 300 archers, 8 ships and 1,500 hoplites. They surrounded the fields around the island, which resulted sent an envoy to implore the Melians to surrender Melian Dialogue unfold. The Melians answered it would be for Athens to besiege an island them. They also described how they could not Melians. To the fairness of quietly instructing to object; but your military preparations say, as we see you are come to be judges in expect from this negotiation is war, if we to submit, and in the contrary case, slavery. they had the power of might on their side, Athenians. For ourselves, we shall not trouble we have a right to our empire because we overthrew of wrong that you have done us- and make a in return we hope that you, instead of thinking join the Lacedaemonians, although their colonists, at what is feasible, holding in view the real as we do that right, as the world goes, is while the strong do what they can and the Melians. As we think, at any rate, it is expedient- us to let right alone and talk only of interest- protection, the privilege of being allowed and even to profit by arguments not strictly And you are as much interested in this as heaviest vengeance and an example for the The Melians asked why they should surrender that they would be spared a worse fate of that friendship with Melos was not enough allies. one has as much of it as the other, and that they are strong, and that if we do not molest besides extending our empire we should gain you are islanders and weaker than others rendering not succeed in baffling the masters of the Melos replied that they had to rely on the Peloponnesian invasion. aware as you of the difficulty of contending terms be equal. But we trust that the gods we are just men fighting against unjust, and by the alliance of the Lacedaemonians, who to the aid of their kindred. Our confidence, Athenians. When you speak of the favour of yourselves; neither our pretensions nor our men believe of the gods, or practise among men we know, that by a necessary law of their is not as if we were the first to make this it existing before us, and shall leave it make use of it, knowing that you and everybody do the same as we do. left and began the siege. Melos held on for to starve under blockade and were forced to that some modern historians have labelled and all women and children were sold into 416 BCE saw Athens become more eager for war, Sicily they wanted to break. Nicias, always to go on an expedition that far west . Alcibiades, considered Sicily an easy target despite its the war's fate: take their triremes and begin and bring it under Athenian control. Plutarch, omens abounded; a madman castrated himself the memorial grove to Athens's victory in and the Priestess of Clazomenae came to the or peace. However, Alcibiades still rallied before they set sail, the Hermes statues on event for the city. Alcibiades's enemies successfully defended himself and set sail land further west than they could have imagined. to haunt him. And the Sicilian Expedition Peloponnesian War, despite not involving Sparta As the defaced statues lay in the city streets, expedition and the shock and fear that Athens far lesser than the horror the Melians would Since Sicily has only been briefly mentioned history and geopolitical survey of the island. world since the Bronze Age, and in the early were built on the Sicilian coast. By the 4th and a political scene just as complex as the Syracuse, a rich merchant hub which regularly governments. Syracuse was very protective opposing foreign interventions and trying Athens, for its part, had some cultural and on the island, which saw them as a counterweight ties to the island's Dorian colonies, including intervention in Sicily in 415 BCE was a new The military commitment was massive, consisting 120 other light infantry, 30 cavalry, and Alcibiades, the city's top generals alongside festered, as witnesses were called and Athens Alcibiades was involved in some of the oligarchic not part of the sacrilege. set sail, arriving first on the east coast Calabria. Many coastal cities gave them a to their shores, and Rhegium echoed this sentiment. showed the futility of their campaign. In love-bombing campaign across Sicily. Lamachos, to sail to Syracuse and seize the city. However, began. Meanwhile, the government of Syracuse with the Athenian attack. General Hermocrates be formed against Athens, while his counterpart to be unsound. While this was happening, Athens coast of Sicily, like the city of Naxos, before their territory and allowed them to set up trireme from Athens arrived, asking Alcibiades agreed to return, however, while they were he mysteriously disappeared. He was not found, and sailed to the Peloponnese. Thus, Nicias army in Sicily, overseeing a strategy he opposed, Nicias wanted to avoid engaging with Syracuse's plan. He dispatched a secret agent to claim away from their camp. Syracuse eagerly accepted Athenians and their allies landed covertly between the coast and the temple of Zeus, There, they built up a fortified stockade. when they arrived at Catana and saw the Athenian had hightailed it back, Athens had the advantage could not reach. Athenians placed their own troops in the centre, near the coast, and their other allies on same size, with the cavalry on its right. Syracusans, but the locals managed to fight flank of Syracuse began to wane under an elite their centre and caused the Syracusans to a narrow spot where the enemy cavalry couldn't further. The Athenian inferiority in cavalry into a rout. The Syracusans went to the road the main city of Syracuse. Syracuse lost 260 to be in a strong position to threaten the Syracusans took positions on the hill of the the Athenian army. Nicias then retired to to attack the city instantaneously. Athens but a gruelling siege was to follow. who agreed to send troops to them. The Envoys had arrived in Sparta and was terrifying them Sicily and Carthage to forge a so-called 'United or half-Spartan half-Helot called Gylippus, the reinforcements headed Syracuse's way and 100 triremes, on top of Gylippus's force indigenous Sicel warriors and 100 cavalry. siege. They moved by sea down to the coast via the pass of Euryalus, where they encountered hills. There was a clash, but the Syracusans moved to the city, then commenced its long-practiced Leon to Syracuse's Great Harbour. Two forts and at Syca at the Southern Heights. The Syracusans stockades, but were unable to form a line its own wall from the Southwest to cut off wall was being built and then struck back, light troops to capture an outpost near the to flee. their wall, extending it across a marsh near again, and split the Syracusan force in two, towards the Anapus River to the left. The but were routed by the Syracusan cavalry, wings were routed, and old man Lamachos was when the main bulk of the Athenian army arrived. from the city and formed up. While engaging large part of the Athenian walls. The Athenians Great harbour and camped at Plemmyrium. a dashing Gylippus arrived to save the day. him as a saviour, then marched towards Syracuse past the Athenians. Gylippus saw a gap on Nicias had failed to secure, and slipped through. outside the city The day after, he seized wall through that area, cutting the Athenian to Plemmyrium, at the southern entrance to was. Athens managed to fight and defeat Gygillus Gylippus engaged in a battle away from the throwers to rout the Athenian left flank. from blockading. Athens began to lose morale, Gylippus left to collect more allies in Sicily, Nicias asked for more help from Athens, who of Pylos fame. relief force included 2,000 hoplites, while Athens received 250 Athenian cavalry, 30 mounted hoplites, and 73 triremes. Gylippus asked they failed miserably as their own navy split 45 from the Small Harbour to the east. Athens 35 ships to the latter. At first, both Athenian but the undisciplined Syracusans were destroyed On land, the distraction of the naval battle Plemmyrium. under the arms of Herakles as they were blocked while Syracuse's remaining ships attacked to manoeuvre, Athens lost many vessels. After the Athenian navy fully out of their harbour. and dashed to Epipolaea, likely to the cheers as a shining saviour. Demosthenes tried to took the Syracusan counter-wall. However, the Athenians back. The retreat turned into was shattered. to confront the direness of their situation. to return to Athens, but Nicias dubiously be willing to surrender the city to them. However, no sooner after, Gylippus returned change his mind and discuss a retreat. As occurred as Gaia hid Selene from her brother bad omen and demanded that the army wait 27 wait for about a month, which allowed their superstitious men supported them, as, fatally, tried to leave, Syracuse dashed and broke 76 Syracusan ships sailed forth to meet 86 invaders in the attack. Athens managed to Syracuse blocked the Great Harbour and essentially a second wall to protect themselves as they to their nearest ally. ships to break through the enemy's forces, leave via land, which was risky, for the countryside villagers. Syracuse also blocked all easily days after losing at sea, the 40,000 survivors front and Demosthenes at the back. They marched settled in inhabited land the next day. On they planned to travel through was blocked on two different days. On the fifth day, they for a short distance, and with supplies now forth on her chariot to Endymion, Nicias and new destination was Camaraina or Gela. The split, with Demosthenes losing control over was caught by the Syracusans, who surrounded until Demosthenes surrendered with his 6,000 Nicias and his troops reached the River Erineus eventually caught up with them, and then Nicias tried to bribe his way out, but the Syracusans day. A night escape was planned, but that the Athenians continued to the River Assinarus, water. Nicias tried to surrender to Gylippus, The few survivors were captured. Nicias and ended up being executed. Most of the few survivors be placed in a quarry where they would be As the sun set on that fateful day, Athens's was destroyed. We can imagine the ghost of herself, who was a patron goddess of both an Athenian mother crying before the Hekatombs them to this spot. and were blinded by their imperial goals, of this campaign, Thucydides had this to say. place during the war and, so it seems to me, to have happened to any of the Greeks; it the most disastrous for those who were defeated.&quot; phase of the war was yet to begin, and the The conflict will return to all parts of Greece, In the east, in the land of Ahuras and Yazatas, the geopolitical game, and we have yet to we ponder what will happen and process through to consider how war affects those who enter comes from a friend of Perikles and a predecessor of Halicarnassus, who reminds us that: "No peace, in which, instead of sons burying their As the triremes from her Sicilian expedition Athens was utterly ruined. Thousands of Athens' lost in that doomed campaign, and her people had brought this disaster upon their city. had advised Sparta to take over Decelea in the population. As a result of this, the silver Athens diminished in revenue due to the Spartan stage, Athens was weaker than ever, and her been so feeble. Meanwhile, Sparta had been faction was gaining in popularity and power. still the dominant naval power in the Aegean not being enough to tip the balance in that this critical shortcoming, Sparta swallowed from someone they normally despised; Achaemenid aspired to conquer all of Hellas as his predecessor he still hoped that by destabilizing Athens, shipping lane of the Hellespont. Thus, Sparta Mazda and Zeus's heaven as Persia could According to Thucydides, the second phase did, with pre-emptive escalations on both colony at Heraclea where he could build a supplies from the north. In addition, several sent delegations to seek assistance against the Spartans to slowly build alliances with which they did. He himself, having come under with the wife of King Pleistoanax, proposed Tissaphernes to have a base away from Sparta for when Miletus was against Athens, Tissaphernes Athens responded by sending ships and establishing revolted. Meanwhile, Alcibiades grew increasingly Sparta, as King Agis became impatient with when the Spartan general Astylochos was ordered to flee to Tissaphernes, who was growing anxious Alcibiades then extended an olive branch to talks with the Athenian upper classes, who institutions. To win the Athenian oligarchs them money from Persia, funds which the economically envoys spread the news and made the arrival troops at Samos seemed intrigued by the idea, to engender enough support to initiate a double Thrasyboulos were avowed democrats, but despite to Athenian chronic political instability. him returning and maintained that Persia did his concerns, he could not stop Alcibiades the fourteenth day of the Attic month of Thargelion, the reality of power.&quot; but in Athens, the coup was successful, and a faction which almost immediately fractured factions. The radical oligarchs began negotiations who had agreed to Alcibiades' plot solely Eventually, the radicals were removed in another Thousand was established. some of its ships to Eretria. Athens believed with the Athenian oligarchs. The Athenians and set forth to go to Euboea, an important to Oropus as a safe harbour to take over the Boeotian allies. Athens manned its remaining met up with their powerful Eretrian allies of 36 ships. After landing at Eretria, the Unbeknownst to them, they were about to be the Spartans. In a ploy to sabotage their for the empty market that the Athenians would to acquire provisions. Then, the Spartans a Walking Egyptian dance move by the Eretrian Agesandridas, the Spartan commander, immediately at sea. The Athenians dashed to their ships eventually, the Athenians were forced to disengage news awaited them as the Eretrians supported A total of twenty-two Athenian ships were killed. This spelt the end of Athenian influence revolt, except for Oreus. Soon, Sparta had one of its most crucial breadbaskets. The stronghold and an ally of Athens, was now in Athens. Though they considered him a traitor, due to his previous reconnecting with them Around here, we must say goodbye to Thucydides, in helping us chronicle the war. His text died around 400 BCE before he could complete realism and a keen understanding of the suffering debate his real character and philosophy. later authors such as Xenophon or Plutarch. to secure grain imports from their other breadbasket: successes in the Hellespont, with the first The battle began because of the payment. The but the local satrap Tissaphernes had not Hellespont satrap Pharnabazos was requesting ships led by Mindaros, began to move north. moved to Chios. The Athenian fleet of fifty-five north in response, and when the Spartans stopped, a certain Thrasyboulos joined him and the The Peloponnesians pushed forth and landed had eighteen ships at Sestos, and Sparta sixteen fearful of a trap, escaped but lost four ships, had eighty ships. Athens had seventy-six combined part of the Hellespont, with the Spartans lined up in parallel across the straits, and left, and Thrasyboulos on the right. Mindaros the right. Mindaros began to move trying to The Athenians spread out their right wing the Hellespont. The centre of the Peloponnesians the land, where the battle became land-based. to defeat their enemies, coming in the centre of the Peloponnesians and freed their friends to flee and as such had enough to fight another twenty-one, but the Athenians were finally very happy. is the first battle described after Thucydides and Xenophon, whose accounts differ in some called Dorieus, who was helping the Peloponnesians, Athenians, and was pursued by them either or by part of just twenty ships. The Rhodians, landed on shore either at Rhoeteum or Dardanus detected them and sailed with his main fleet, A battle ensued, but the Peloponnesians were Pharnabazos's timely intervention. Thrasyboulos Mindaros, and Thrasyllus the left, opposite from morning until the afternoon, according either 18 or 20 ships, and the Peloponnesians the Athenians captured ten ships but were the Peloponnesians, they had fled ashore and doesn't mention a storm, but says that during thirty ships as well as their previously captured victory. and Abydos in 411 BCE, they continued to have Persia's navy was providing Sparta with Persian Satrap Pharnabazos controlled a significant in the land section of the battle, while the of ships drawn from the entire Peloponnesian force comprised 80 ships, while Xenophon more Athenian fleet, united under Alcibiades, was To avoid being locked inside the Hellespont, themselves north of Gallipoli. and the Spartan navarchos or naval leader The Persian Satrap Pharnabazos joined him the city into surrender. When the Athenians Abydos to hide their true arsenal from the quite differently by Xenophon and Diodoros waited for heavy rain to approach the city took his squadron past the Peloponnesians, is said to have landed, and Mindarus followed around the ships to chase Mindarus in a surprise the south of the town. The armies moved to Alcibiades emerged victorious, while Mindarus and everyone else was taken, prisoner. Diodoros splitting into three. Alcibiades sailed into sail back to bait the Peloponnesians. Theramenes and hid before attacking and blocking the However, this did not work as the Athenians and the ambush was triggered, the Peloponnesians Pharnabazus's cavalry forces. As the Athenians ships and then used grappling harpoons to then moved on to the land. Alcibiades and fight on land to take over the remnants of in this clash, Mindarus was killed, but the fleet. Xenophon quotes a Spartan dispatch ships are gone. Mindarus has disappeared. do.' Cyzicus fell within the next few days, the Hellespont was fully reasserted. the Hellespont greatly boosted Athenian morale. high, as they now had secured their breadbasket was keen to capitalize on this victory, but a peace deal with Sparta in which they would elsewhere. The people and the Samian democrats, how this unfolded, but we can assume that of Athens to restore democracy. We must also philosophers of Athens disliked due to their only the classes of the rich and the zeugitai, even the unpropertied lower classes of men. in Athens, but we can imagine the mass of of regaining power as the fear of the Sicilian Alcibiades and the other generals at Samos once more. They took harsh measures against laws and bringing a grant to all citizens Agora restored the Boule of the Five Hundred, crimes. The important use of the wording of it rhetorically clear that the democracy of interests and values. They also instituted had bounced back from a disastrous campaign however, was not over yet. The Peloponnesian Empire was now trying to hold on to its newfound war through Sparta as an ally and a proxy. now fully underway, and Athenian generals war. actors were at it again, including Alcibiades. regain the power and favour he had once held Athens concentrated its efforts on the Hellespont, control of the region and push out Spartan their navy again and began preparing for the tried to break through to allied cities like these expeditions. Athens' vice over the diplomatic negotiations with Sparta's ally, to secure a deal with Pharnabazos to maintain Things were not looking good for Sparta, but Persia would soon turn the tides back in their oldest, and Cyrus, the second-born, were engaged Parysatis, favouring the latter. Cyrus had other relatives and powerful satraps, including him, as they all preferred Arsaces as ruler. Cyrus outmanoeuvred them all, then sought alliance with Sparta. Spartan mothax Lysander entered the Aegean over from the now-dead Mindarus and was keen Athens was doing very well in the region, was in order. Lysander and Cyrus subsequently against Athens in Asia Minor. This provides of this phase of the war. While both Sparta was not guaranteed due to different schools Spartans feared that their role as protectors dependent on Persia and had to give up influence side, but it is possible they feared Sparta Sparta used Persian funds to increase the at Ephesos, increasing its 70-strong fleet hand and took an Athenian fleet to Notium. time. After a while, Alcibiades left his main command of his ships on his second mate, Antiochos. However, being a typical Athenian, Antiochos on the Spartans anyway. Here, our principal in their accounting of events. Diodoros says causing Lysander to take out his force, one-shot of screaming Athenian sailors back to Notium. to the harbour and sailed to the Spartans. apparently, Athens sent more ships, but the to be unleashed. advance force, then sailed onwards to Notium. sailed out, and organized themselves in many they were destroyed by Sparta's numerical sunk. A triumphant Lysander returned to Ephesos. Samos, where the army had retreated. In a took his entire fleet to Ephesos to offer and refused to engage, knowing he would be Athenians returned to Samos. This was the the defeat of his navy, the Athenian people in Thrace. He would unsuccessfully try to life until he passed away in 404 BCE. We are it happened when he went to the Persian court However, his nemesis Lysander had already assassins to take Alcibiades out. The assassins decided to have his final stand. He rushed in the ensuing knife brawl. Thus ends the turncoat who decided to meet his end with In 406 BCE, Lysander was relieved of his post. Callicratidas, continued trying to break through meant going around the Ionian coast to try Callicratidas was going to face an Athenian sure he had a numerical advantage by rallying across the coast and engaging in minor battles. 406 BCE. Delphinium was an Athenian base on first fortresses to rebel against Athens after to retake Chios, they managed to begin a blockade some minimal control in the region. This meant there, especially since Athens had never been blockading it since their rebellion. garrison trying to take over a hostile island This gulf in manpower must have become obvious so before the fight began, they raised the them go and join the other Athenian forces, to the ground. Following this success, Callicratidas at Methymne on the island of Lesbos, which waves of attackers to breach this bastion, eventually broke inside some of the walls, amongst the post-Thucydidean historiographical the local Methymnians wished to stop the fighting. by letting them inside the walls. Xenophon describes an eventual victorious assault. almost intercepted the Athenian navy. Conon, fled, though many Athenian vessels were captured. but had stayed in Hecatonnesia to the south of the city's fall. The Peloponnesians tried At dawn, the Athenians and Spartans met at chased after him and entered the harbour of The battle endured, and thirty ships were crews mostly survived. Callicratides surrounded diverge in their accounts yet again. Xenophon city to face starvation. He claims that Conon with two of his ships. One ship was captured, from there, broke through to Athens. Diodorus that Conon initiated the first battle and the siege began. Ten ships worked their way and captured them. its citizens immediately began to raise a A multitude of ships from Athens, their Samian and sent forth from Samos. Thus began the of Arginusae. Athens sent no less than eight Aristogenes, Diomedon, Erasinides, Lysias, and Aspasia, Protomachus and Thrasyllus. Athens and, with their reinforcements, had a tally present. Callicratidas had grown increasingly along to face the Athenian combatants. The two armies were fated to meet as the Greek for the new day after a thunderstorm the Greeks The western shores of the Arginusae islands of the Peloponnesian War. lines. The far left flank included Aristocrates was right behind him. To their right was Diomedon, The centre flank included Athens' loyal navarchs in command of the fleet. Further with fifteen ships each. The fringe right front line and Aristogenes, the rear. The while the right was towards the shore. The in front of the Arginusae islands. This was had to be close to not fall into the open any form of sneak attack could not surround Callicratides responded by splitting his fleet, Boeotian allies under Thrasondas the Theban was outnumbered this time and felt Sparta Thus, he decided to initiate the fight in gain the advantage without Persian help, and The ships rammed into each other while the the islands' shores. The Athenians opened control of the naval landscape, with the back from passing between and surrounding them. an easy victory for the Athenians, as both for a very long time. Having made his choice, day, though our sources differ on how this rammed into the Athenians. According to Xenophon, died, while Diodoros claims he got entangled fell while fighting. Whatever the case, Callicratidas his alliance. It had been said that before be difficult for them to win, so they had replied like king Leonidas or Hector of the Sparta will suffer no ill. If I surrender, Eventually, one of the Spartan flanks also though both our main sources disagree on whether fled to Chios, leaving the Athenians behind. 25 ships were destroyed on the Athenian side. state. It is here that we see what happened generals decided to split their army to go he was in, with 2/3s going to help and 1/3 Two Trierarchs, Thrasyvoulos and Theramenes, sailors while the other navarchs went to pursue commander at Mytilene, evacuated his army the blockaded city and link up with the main forces and a massive storm which constrained were saved, nor the dead collected. Thus, as the shade of Odysseas's mother when they angry. The Generals knew this; as they watched would commence once more. was very heated. The generals believed Theramenes sailors, while Theramenes thought the generals The former believed Thramenes was trash-talking As such, they sent a letter mentioning the were angry so the generals thought Theramenes to people angrily blaming them for the deaths discussing how the captains had been given blaming them for the tragedy and letting themselves were very influential in ancient Athens, as As such, they began to lobby in the Agora, to fulfil. Diodoros tells us that making these was imprisoned, while two others, Aristogenes trial against them and had deserted before remaining generals even more precarious as Athenians. There was a heated debate, with guilt. The trial's emotional high stakes and without the usual recourse to the law remaining generals and many of their inferior Many Athenians later realised their erroneous they inflicted upon the generals and came the status quo's terms, knowing full well to regain command and was both bold and without Athens ended up refusing as many politicians, they could win complete supremacy over the the fate of the war. Lysander was bound to with Persia. As such, the war was bound to two years, which will be decisive in their alliances will settle their scores on multiple will finally have to face the Spartans on once did against the Persians. The clashes and only the Olympians know who will go to Despite the Athenian victory at Arginusae, and had lost many of its best generals. Sparta their loss at Arginusae and their Athenian deal after the fact. As such, it was imperative King of Kings had by now come to see the Peloponnesian meddlers of Athens who were trying to seize The Athenian rejection, according to Donald sort of restoration of relations, as the Spartans in the war instead of regrouping with Persian parents trying to avoid their son, Persia As we will recall from our previous episode, at the court of the Shahanshah himself. He League's member states, many of whom were on their home turf. Driven by this fear, the in which their Spartan ringleaders could be which was held in Ephesus, both the Peloponnesian to resume his role as Naval Transport Supremo new fleet of 35 ships, and in 406/405 BCE, own Garden of the Hesperides, Ephesos. Provided Midas's golden touch itself, Lysander had rearmament of the Peloponnesian fleet. He like Miletos, where his predecessor and rival circles through violence and intimidation. with Athens in 412 BCE and summarily captured as slaves. He then set his sights on the strategic over for years now; the Hellespont. In these to stop the Argonauts on their journey to would be decided. their navy and had decided to set up a base there and was still alive for the time being, fortifications were inadequate. He claimed which previous battles in the Hellespont had would be better off setting up a base at Sestos Lysander had taken the city after a storm Philocles and Adeimantus, who were the Athenian his offer as they saw it as impractical and reinforcements. supporter Aracus, had managed to rebuild his and shape yet, with a total of 170 ships. force, for Athens possessed 180 ships with set out from Aegopotamoi and went outside ready to face the mighty Lysander; however, the Spartans refused to come out and fight. back. The pattern of going to the site and repeated for days as Lysander carefully gathered ships. more careless. As it did, Lysander took advantage our sources differ on how this came to be. rotated daily on who would go and try to lure in charge, Philokles, went out with thirty As such, he sent a call back to base for the the squadron that was meant to attack Lysander. move, although it has been speculated that a plan to lure the Spartans to Sestos and wind of this through some deserters and immediately each squadron one by one. the triremes clashed. This was a quick victory moved forward towards the European shores who were unprepared, and set his ships on in a precarious situation as they had to travel on that fifth day, Lysander's scouts saw a golden opportunity to strike. They raised and signalled the Peloponnesians to come. initiated by Lysander begins. Athens sent through them. He then ordered his forces to to capture most of them. These ships excluded the carnage began and escaped. Soon, the troops After years of being raided by Athens, the vengeance. 3,000 Athenians were massacred, he was a traitor or because he was the most deserter Conon, he fled to Cyprus. named the Paralus appeared in the harbour come and tried to prepare accordingly by raising a costly fleet and with the power of Sparta to occur. Lysander, for his part, had begun and its fertile grain farms by taking out He also captured the Athenian stronghold of home city, and warn the Athenians of what the Spartans had taken residence with King The other King of Sparta, Pausanians, focused to raise their troops and finally storm Athens. gathered 200 ships and set up a blockade of sea; the siege had begun. allies executed the prisoners at Aegospotamoi, time was not on their side, for soon, their on their neck was lifted slightly when Pausanias reasons, and Lysander left for Samos, where The latter left behind some ships which managed was running out, the Athenians sent an embassy at Decelea. Although the Allies of the Peloponesse Agis refused to cave to their bloodthirsty to him by the Athenian ambassador. In this to Sparta, joining the Spartan alliance because The Spartan ephors rejected this offer, enraging a politically and militarily isolated position. that they accept further negotiations (implying but the Athenians were afraid of Sparta doing him. By contrast, non-capitulationists like negotiations with the enemy. city, and soon, the Athenians were once more Theramenes went and negotiated with Lysander. on the rise, were not to be trusted with setting to convince the Spartan mothax, who himself allow some constitutional autonomy to Athens. Agora by imposing a strict oligarchy with convinced him it would be better to install franchise based on income instead, which would unpredictable politics and bold foreign policy demands of Corinth and Thebes to destroy the peace was agreed to. Sparta considered Athens's decades before to have made them worthy of the blockade was finally lifted, and Athens Sparta's terms were targeted and specific, Corinth's ideas of vengeance, they must to the proud Athenians, especially when they Piraeus and demolishing the walls. Athens was to fully embed itself in the Spartan sphere were allowed to keep the 'Patrios Politeia' role in Theramenes' ability to get Athens factions could see it as a preservation of navy reduced to twelve ships. Moreover, exiles into Athenian society. We cannot know what but we know that Theramenes used his rapport of the Thirty Tyrants, a short lived dictatorial end at Sparta's behest. These Thirty Tyrants began a reign of terror by scratching away Athenian Agora. Critias was particularly cruel, Athens's tradition of protest and revolt lasted only about a year. Eventually, many rose in revolt from exile and fought bitterly This civil war, known to us as the Phyle Campaign, left the franchise to the so-called Three and metics. As a result, a steady flow of whose reputation in the Peloponnesian War alongside his comrade Anytos, was determined As such, the two of them, like Athenian versions with only seventy loyalist democrats and marched The Tyrants, alarmed at the democratic force a magnet for subversive activity, began to force marched up onto Phyle and set camp outside attack by part of the Tyrants's force was Tyrants arrived later and began preparations the winter of 404 BCE, and they became stuck managed to send part of their force out and retreat. From there, the Tyrants summoned led by Callibios, and alongside them and two They found a fort near the one at Phyle and be used for farming by the Democrats. In the and had reached 700 men and was determined left the fortress and reached the Spartan-Tyrant struck by attacking the fort. The Spartans were killed. The rest fled alongside the surviving a trophy at the site and went back to Phyle. revolt was gaining strength, as Thrasyboulos him to come to the dark side and join their prepared a Dr Evil-style refuge bunker at Eleusinian mysteries took place. Thrasyboulos, The Democrats knew that Peiraeas, Athens's Long Walls were taken down, and that many its low-wage working population and cosmopolitanism, it the ideal spot for them to gain a foothold stage for the Battle of Munychia was set. us with different accounts of the prelude set up camp in a fort at Acharnae near Peiraeas, defeated them, causing their retreat. For at night and, realizing that defending the to march out. In both cases, they took up and the battle commenced. We do not have much focus on that of Xenophon. As it happened, at a market in Hippodamos and began to march ranks deep, with the light troops and spear-throwers move up the hill, Thrasyboulos ordered them to move until either he or Thrasyboulos were and entered the Fields of Elysium, and Thrasyboulos broke into the oligarchic lines and pushed Kritias and Hippomachos. After the Battle, and a Council of Ten, one from each tribe, the Thirty were in that council, with the In the meantime, Sparta was scrambling to recognizing the Thirty or the Ten as a legitimate Two major players were vying for control: one of the two Kings. Lysander was initially beginning mobilization alongside the Thirty. force of various Peloponnesian forces by three and Corinth refusing to send troops out of arrived at Attica, and a grumbling Lysander positions outside Peiraeas, Pausanias on the Pausanias began with a move of diplomacy, rebuked, he launched an attack, weakened their he went on reconnaissance to see if a siege raids to try and stop him. Pausanias used thirty of them, then followed the rest into forces were preparing and arming. They managed the commanders, including an Olympic champion ranks with his hoplites and began to move forces into one. Forming a much deeper formation, a last stand. The Democrats fought valiantly had lost 150 men in total, while the Spartans Pausanias was a defensive man in terms of with his offer of diplomacy. Both the Ten where a negotiated settlement was reached; pardon would be offered to all except the The remnants of tyranny remained free at Eleusis were discovered, and the democrats launched and for all. Pausanias was tried for his actions Although Athens had preserved its political superpower of Hellas, but this would not last an isolated state needing social harmony. many allies like Corinth and Thebes began as top dog, Sparta soon began to terrorize its reputation as the champions of the Hellenic alliance with Persia. To that end, under the campaign in Asia Minor. its influence throughout Hellas, a trajectory War. Ironically, in the Corinthian War of Argos, Athens, and Corinth, came together fight off the Spartans, resulting in a conflict this, Athens regained its Long Walls and became like before. Thebes would eventually become victory. Soon, from the northern plains of through far more prudent diplomacy, become kingdom that was only a side actor in the and barbaric by the rest of Hellas, became of geopolitics. effect on the city-states of Greece. Places losses in revenue and agricultural output. like Corinth had far fewer men for their hoplite compared to cities like Plataea and Melos, and enslaved. War is a cruel affair and was can imagine Athena and Ares wrestling over weaved and cut the lines of myriad lives. Greece as oligarchs and democrats fought repeatedly Scholars have debated the geopolitical lessons often made or broke cities, has been highlighted everything was debated. This has led some a democracy can be when at war. This criticism survived and even thrived after major losses defeat in the war. Either way, the Peloponnesian with its shifting alliances, chaotic battles Ephors and Strategoi. Thucydides himself, on, has gained an incredible reputation as His goal, to make the conflict a 'Ktema history and how we perceive war. Discussions realism in geopolitics or ached for a world be avoided are still debated by classicists We can claim that he has gained himself a like Sima Qian, Ibn Khaldun, or Garcilaso And thus, our story of the Peloponnesian War a Dionysian return from India but as a boulder Tragic poets like Euripides, who lived during of war and how the Olympians caused wars. aristocratic morals, the Trojan War was caused who used a cloud eidolon of her to go to Troy, on her while she is kidnapped at Egypt. In many lessons for today, and Thucydides seems war and peace. Nevertheless, we may wish to Euripides's tragic play Helen, in which 'How variable is the nature of gods, ey? from good to bad, from one minute to the next! The other comes from a modern Greek poet, after Euripides's play, recites: 'Scamander is not destined to hear from suffering and all these lives were sent to And thus our story ends. More videos on ancient are subscribed and press the bell button. and sharing - it helps immensely. Recently YouTube member exclusive content, and this roster before its release. Please consider or button under the video to watch these weekly access to our videos, access our private discord, channel, and we will catch you on the next