Tunisia has been at the crossroads of civilizations for millennia and is a diverse and fascinating place to travel to. It's the smallest nation in North Africa but boasts enough history, culture, With its spectacular coastline, it's often seen as a beach holiday destination. But travel a little further and you'll discover a country ancient archaeological sites, traditional cultures, delicious food, and friendly, welcoming people. In this video, I'm traversing Tunisia, on one of the most surprising From the bustling streets of capital Tunis to intriguing Berber villages like Takrouna and Tamezret. From secluded desert oases near Tozeur to the imposing From historic sites in El Jem and Carthage to the From the rolling dunes of the Sahara to the mountains around Tataouine. And from the lively narrow alleys of Sfax's medina to the So join me, exploring the incredible country of Tunisia. We begin this journey in Tunis, the vibrant capital and It's the political and commercial center of the country, Located at the intersection of civilizations for centuries, Tunis is influenced by Arabic, African, and European cultures, which created a charismatic city full of contrasts. Most travelers start exploring Tunis in the narrow streets of the Medina, the historic center that has been the beating heart of the From quiet lanes with beautifully decorated homes and doors, the Medina is truly a world in itself. The best way to explore the Medina is to simply get lost, Along the way, you can/will discover hidden museums and palaces, taste some of the delicious food, and meet the curious This is 'mandola' (makroudh). The market areas (of the Medina) are divided into several souks, where generations of artisans and workers have traded and produced their craft. From the gold and jewelry souk to neighborhoods full of workshops There is even a street dedicated to mixing and testing perfumes. Welcome to Tunisia! At the very center of the Medina stands the impressive Al-Zaytouna Founded in the 8th century, the original building was and remains an important place of worship. If you stay overnight in Tunis, a great way to do so is in a traditional 'Dar'. Some of these ancient town houses are renovated into boutique hotels, and provide a unique insight into local history and hospitality. As you walk towards the edges of the Medina, you'll notice until you reach the newer parts of Tunis. Often called 'Ville Nouvelle', or New City, many of the buildings here It's a lively area, filled with shops, offices, restaurants, where everything under the Tunisian Sun is sold. Welcome to Tunisia. Make sure to stroll along the Avenue Habib Bourguiba, and pay a visit to the Cathedral of Saint Vincent de Paul. Other notable landmarks spread out over Tunis include the Kasbah monument, the abandoned Hotel du Lac, and the modern City of Culture, which houses a theatre, cinema, and museums. We leave downtown Tunis behind, and travel to one of its most famous suburbs. Founded by the Phoenicians in the 9th century BC, the ancient city of Carthage evokes the imagination of many people. Once a maritime powerhouse, and cosmopolitan trading hub, Carthage was one of the wealthiest cities in the classical world. That fortune, however, slowly faded during the infamous Punic Wars, with the Roman Empire eventually conquering and destroying the city Although Carthage was rebuilt several times after, under Roman, Today, visitors can explore the partly excavated ruins, Not far from here is Sidi bou Said, a charming coastal Built on top of a hill, overlooking the Mediterranean, Traditionally, Sidi bou Said attracted many writers and artists, and while they are still here, it's now mostly tourists that visit the town. What is that? Despite its popularity, it remains a friendly place, and it's easy to spend a few hours strolling the narrow alleys And as you climb a little higher, and take a few unexpected turns, We continue our journey and travel inland to the Berber village of Takrouna. With its strategic hilltop location, it offers sweeping vistas dotted with rural fields and olive tree groves. The Berber people, also called Amazigh, are indigenous and have been living here for centuries. They are known for their strong ties to the land, sense of community, and hospitality. While few people still live here (today), the upper village provides We return to the coast, to visit the third largest city of/in Tunisia. While Sousse is famous for its beaches and holiday resorts, and some of the country's most intriguing monuments and museums. Sousse used to be one of Tunisia's most popular beach destinations, All that changed in 2015, however, after a devastating As a result, Tunisia's tourism sector rapidly declined, Walking down the beach, you will reach the historic Yes, photo! This is my boutique, and this is the butcher. Very very good (referring to the football logo on his shirt). A warren of narrow alleyways, the Medina is a fascinating place to get lost in, and absorb the sights and sounds of daily life happening around you. From the busy souks, selling everything from daily groceries to souvenirs, to the quiet backstreets that breathe an almost mysterious charm. Make sure to try some of the delicious food, such as couscous, in homey restaurants and stop for tea or coffee in one of the local cafes. Located at the lower entrance of the medina stands the Ribat, Dating from the 8th century, this fortified structure initially and later also protected commercial trading routes. So I'm now standing at the watchtower of the Ribat, It's now providing a beautiful overview of the medina, Splendid views. Perched on a hill, on the opposite side of the Medina is While impressive indeed, it's what's inside that attracts most visitors. This is the site of the magnificent Sousse Archaeological Museum, which holds the second largest collection of mosaics in Tunisia, after the Bardo museum, which was closed at the time of visiting. Dating from Punic, Roman, and early Christian periods, the mosaics are true pieces of ancient artwork, and Just Southeast from Sousse is Monastir, a friendly coastal Probably the best vantage point is from the tower of the local Ribat, the oldest of its kind in the region, built by Arab conquerors in the 8th century. Apart from admiring the scenery and structure itself, the Ribat also houses an interesting museum, and Across from here is the impressive Mausoleum of Habib Bourguiba, Born in Monastir, Bourguiba led his country to and ruled the country for three decades after. He died in the year 2000, but is still regarded by many as the 'Father of the Nation'. Our next destination is El Jem, a small town that contains At the very heart of the village stands the massive Reminding of the Colosseum (in Rome), it is one of the Built in the third century in what was then the town of Thysdrus, the Amphitheater was made entirely of stone blocks, without a clear foundation. The three levels of arcades could hold up to 35,000 people, who would becheering and chanting for the unfortunate You can visit most parts of the theatre, climb to the upper seating And while it's a popular place with tour groups and school classes, in some parts of the day it feels like you have the theatre to yourself. We travel onwards to Kairouan, considered the fourth holiest city in Islam, At the core of the city stands the magnificent Great Mosque of In fact, for Muslims a visit to Kairouan is considered The mosque was founded in the year 670 AD, and was It is one of the largest Islamic monuments in North Africa, and served as a model for later mosques in the Maghreb region. As a visitor, it's easy to spend a few hours here, wandering admiring the architecture and decoration. Kairouan also offers a captivating historic Medina, with On the way, you'll pass colorful homes in residential areas and if you're lucky discover hidden shrines and classic dar buildings. Age-old bakeries producing traditional bread contrast with Hi, I'm Yousef and this is Said, and welcome to Kairouan! And all this time, you'll hear the sound of artisans at work, but most notably beautiful handmade carpets, for which the city is famous. We drive further inland and briefly stop in Sidi Bouzid, a modest town that became the starting point of one of In 2010, a local fruit seller named Mohamed Bouazizi set What followed was months and years of protests that spread eventually culminating in the so called 'Arab Spring'. Today, a small but respectful monument reminds people of what happened here. We continue our journey and traverse the northern all the way to Tozeur, close to the border with Algeria Reaching this far-flung outpost proved quite a challenge, After finally reaching the city, a hearty home-made meal, and Tozeur is a friendly place that feels distinctly different from other regions in Tunisia. Historically an important stopping point for caravans What is that? Today, you can admire some of the traditional architecture by strolling through the old Medina. Buildings here are made from clay and mud bricks, Also worth visiting is the enormous date palm plantation With several hundred thousand trees, it is one of the While Tozeur is a charming place, many travelers come here The best way to get here is by joining a tour, or hiring an expert local driver. Through remote desert landscape, with outliers of the Atlas Mountains in the backdrop, we arrive in Chebika village, which is home to an almost surreal oasis. Although the ancient village is now abandoned, small Berber mostly working in the tourism sector. Welcome to Chebika, my name is Hassan Zamouri. I'm from the local village of Chebika with Berber origin. Some parts are quite narrow here in Chebika. Hiking through the narrow gorge, past streams of flowing water, Other places around Tozeur include the massive canyons of Mides, the waterfall near Tamerza, and the remote area of Onk Jemal, which is home to This bizarre place can only be reached by 4WD and gives a peculiar behind the scenes look of one of We leave the Tozeur region behind and cross the vast Chott el Jerid, With its harsh climate and lack of natural resources, this mostly dried up salt lake is so barren it is almost mysteriously beautiful. Driving here can also feel eerie, with sporadic cars passing, and the only human activity in sight a salt production facility. On the other side of Chott el Jerid lies Sabria, a small settlement that is regarded as the local gateway to the Sahara. Just outside the village, in between massive sand dunes, where tourists can spend the night in the desert. So I made it to the edge of the Sahara, not far from I'm staying in this camp behind me, an absolutely Arriving here feels like stepping into a different world, with glimpses of nomadic lifestyles and ancient Bedouin culture welcoming you. Whether it's riding a camel, sipping tea at sunset, or simply soaking up the authentic atmosphere and mesmerizing In the evenings, dinners are served, that include cooked buried under hot sand and a small fire. After spending the night in style, with the Saharan winds picking Good morning from the same camp, however with a very different I'm going to leave soon, after breakfast though. Driving East we pass Tamezret, a fortified Berber village that It's a fascinating place to wander around, take in the views, The highlight is probably the intriguing museum, where you learning about local customs and culture. We continue our way and change direction Southwards, to reach the region of Tataouine, known for its rugged mountain That was quite a drive today, but with a special ending. I'm standing in Ksar Hadada, a traditional building And now it's also restored as hotel, so let's have a look. Traditionally, 'ksar' were built as fortified villages in North Africa, usually in regions inhabited by Berber communities. They typically consist of structures functioning as houses, shops, vaulted rooms used to store grain. Whether or not you're a Star Wars fan, Ksar Hadada and if you have the chance, also to spend the night. Perhaps one of Tunisia's most picturesque villages, Chenini Built on top of a ridge in the 12th century, overlooking its strategic location proved vital to protect food reserves and control trade routes. Strolling through the village, exploring the narrow pathways Although mostly abandoned today, some families still live here, and travelers can enjoy food and drinks in a friendly cafe. Our last stop in the Tataouine area is Ksar Ouled Soltane, one of the largest of its kind. The ksar is spread over two courtyards and some buildings We continue our journey and arrive on Djerba, one of Tunisia's most popular destinations, and for good reason. This island offers a wide array of sights and activities Many tourists come here to enjoy the long and beautiful coastline, and there are plenty of luxury resorts that cater for these wishes. Staying in one of these hotels is an experience in itself, large pools, private beaches, and restaurants that offer an abundance of choices. Venture further along the shore, and there are many other things to do and discover, including water sports like kite surfing, strolling along small fishing ports, or joining a sailing tour on a pirate ship. Djerba's largest town, Houmt Souk, has an attractive historic From narrow alleyways and covered markets, to hidden caravanserai, used as resting places Around the corner, vibrant street markets offer anything from and give a good insight into local culture and lifestyles. Make sure to try some of the food here, including freshly made 'brik', Praised as a place of coexistence, Djerba is also known While most of its population are Muslim and Berber, a small Probably the most recognizable feature of Jewish life on the located in the small town of Erriadh. The current building was constructed in the 19th century, which would make it one of the oldest synagogues in Africa. A few hundred meters from here, and not to be missed, is Djerbahood, a charming neighborhood with quiet cobblestone alleys The result of a 2014 international art project, which brought Djerbahood is now a popular place for tourists. Bonjour! In the South of Djerba we stop in Guellala, renowned The main street is lined with stores selling magnificent artwork, with some giving demonstrations of this ancient craft. Around 450 local potters are said to be active in and around the village, You are welcome in Guellala. Although you can spend many more days, if not weeks, exploring Djerba island, it was now time to travel to our final destination. We finish our journey in Sfax, the second largest city in Tunisia While it may not have the same variety of tourist sites as other places in the country, it more than makes up for it with a generous, open attitude, Photo, video? - Yes, video. Welcome in Sfax, welcome at the fish market. This is a specialty in Tunisia, it's very good. The center of daily life, and probably the most interesting Surrounded by imposing walls, the historic streets The bustling fruit and vegetable markets are a hive of activity, with vendors offering their fresh produce to (busy) crowds of customers. I'm now walking in Sfax, the second largest city in Tunisia. It's quite lively today, this is the main medina, Move a little further and it's a whole different scene, with where people produce clothes, shoes, and other products. At the very heart of the Medina stands the impressive Great Mosque, a beautiful structure that is still used as place of worship. Other notable monuments include the Kasbah fortress, offering an intriguing museum and great views over this friendly city. And that concludes my journey through Tunisia, a diverse with ancient historic landmarks, fascinating traditions, spectacular natural scenery, important religious sites, vibrant urban centers, intriguing villages, wonderful food, and friendly people. I realize I have only scratched the surface, and you could spend months exploring this beautiful North African country. Yet I still hope this video gave you some travel inspiration, or at least provided a glimpse into this incredible place. Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely!