(big band music) - Hey, what a crowd, what a crowd. You're alright, there, I'm telling ya. (audience drowns out speaking) Thank you very much. Thank you. Nah, I tell ya, I'm alright now, but last week I was in (audience laughing) I mean last week my wife, she signed me up for a bridge club, I (audience laughing) I mean, last week was Last week I looked up my family tree, two dogs were using it. (audience laughing) I tell ya, I can't relax, you know? Like the other night I was in a place I felt like having a few drinks. I went over to the bartender, He showed me a naked picture of my wife. (audience laughing) Are you kidding? My wife is always something. Her father just died, Every time I take a snack he (audience laughing) I mean, and my wife Well last week she cracked up the car, she went into a tree. She said it wasn't her (audience laughing) Boy, what a driver she is. Over the dashboard there's they belong to the last guy she hit. (audience laughing) Are you kidding? Oh, one night she went out, I said to her, did you She told me she got the (audience laughing) I don't know. And I'll tell you, with Last week I went to the track, they shot off the opening (audience laughing) Are you kidding? Last week I got stuck too. I bought a new book, I ended up in traction, it was a misprint. (audience laughing) Are you kiddin'? I never had any luck with girls anyway. I know I'm ugly. I went to a freak show (audience laughing) My wife, she don't go for me either. When she gave birth I asked her if I should be in the room with When I got pregnant you (audience laughing) I tell ya, since I was a kid women always gave me a hard time. My mother never breast fed me. She told me she liked me as a friend. (audience laughing) I mean, are you kiddin'? My mother had morning (audience laughing) I tell ya, when I was a kid You kidding? No respect from anybody, The time I was lost on the beach and a cop helped me look for my parents. I said to the cop, do He said, I don't know kid, there's so many places they could hide. (audience laughing) My old man, he didn't help either. The time I was kidnapped they sent back a piece of my finger. He said he wanted more proof. (audience laughing) When I was a kid I went through plenty. With my uncle's dying wish He was in the electric chair. (audience laughing) Ah, it's the same thing today, no respect. Last week I was gonna jump out my window, they called a priest to talk to me. He said, on your mark! (audience laughing and cheering) (big band music) Thank you very much. - Listen to them. - Geez, I always have - You know, one of these and your livelihood is - Oh yeah? - It's really nice. Great crowd here, it's really nice. How you been, Johnny, you okay? - I'm fine, Rodney, good to see you again. - Good, nice seeing you, always It's nice to see you. Ed, how are ya? - [Ed] Good. - Well, what's new in your life? - What's new in my life? I don't know, nothing new. Just tryin' to keep busy, that's all. Workin' around, you know, (Clearing throat) Pardon me. - [Johnny] Sure, it's alright. - Nothing, emphysema. (audience laughing) No, I'll be back in New York, (audience cheering) New Yorkers here (speaking - [Johnny] At your club? - I'll be at the club, yeah. I'll be there Thursday, Friday, Working there at Dangerfield's. Then I'll be, I'm going Next Tuesday, yes, New England-way. I'll be in Cohasset, Yeah, that's right outside And I'll be there in August. (laughing) It coulda been worse, I know. (laughing) I'll be up there August 7th through 11th at the South Shore Music You're gonna be up that - I'm gonna play Framingham, actually. - Yeah, at the Chateau You'll like it up there, In fact, I have a friend with you up there, he's a good guy. A good guy to know, he runs he's really a... - [Johnny] Oh. - Hello? (audience laughing) You gotta break 'em in, you know that. - [Johnny] You can. Take 'em on the road, try 'em out. Can't bring 'em on the big time. - I'm gonna be in a place I've never been before in my life, Minnesota. - [Johnny] Minnesota? - Minnesota. - Bloomington, Bloomington, Minnesota. - [Johnny] Land of a thousand lakes. - That's right, a lot of lakes over there. - [Johnny] A thousand! - A thousand lakes over there. (laughing) And I'll be at the Carlton Celebrity Club. - Carlton Celebrity Club. - In Bloomington, Minnesota. This place is so far out in the woods my act's gonna be reviewed (audience laughing) I'll be out there. - And the manager of the club is a bear. - (mumbling) bear, remember that joke? - Yeah sure, I remember them all. - Ah yeah, I'll be out there. But I keep, show business is rough though, you know that, Johnny. - Is it really? It's rough. That why it's just a hobby with me. I make my money at my regular job. I sing the national anthem (audience laughing) - It all helps. - It's a rough business, you know that. Last week my fan club (audience laughing) You meet all kinds of people. Met a guy in Vegas last A wild guy from Texas, you know. Yeah, he has a big ranch down there. He told me at his ranch he All on him. Ooh, he's a wild guy. (audience laughing) - [Johnny] It's the gay ranchero, I guess. - That's right. You're alright, you know that? - Well, thank you, yeah. It's a living, I show up. (speaking drowned out by audience) I've got nothing planned. - Yeah, but sometimes I meet people they act too classy, you know what I mean? Like a lot of women A woman has to go to the bathroom, she never says, I have she says, I'm gonna powder my nose. I mean, if that's where her nose is she's in a lot of trouble, you know. (audience laughing) - Lot of strange people out there. - Yeah, strange people. I met a guy last week - Strange guy? - Yeah, he told me he had an affair with a girl three months ago. He's going nuts, he He told me what happened it just stays in critical But everybody has problems. In fact, I was talkin' to my brother the other day, you know? Actually, I said my brother, Yeah, we have the same parents, he's just that way, you know? - [Johnny] I see. (audience laughing) - And it's wild having I'll tell ya that. I always kid him, I tell he's in the (beeping) section, you know? (audience laughing) - You're cruel, cruel, - Nah, everybody has Me too, my marriage is on My wife broke up with her boyfriend. (audience laughing) No, my marriage has always The day I got married, that was a beauty. Everybody was crying there. During the ceremony, her mother cried. All the way to the hotel, my wife cried. She got undressed, I cried. (audience laughing) - Health is important, though. - We'll get to that. - We'll get to health in a moment. (audience laughing) - I got enough problems without my health. I got enough problems - [Johnny] What are some - Oh, my kid, forget it, will ya? My kid's gettin' worse, you know? I don't talk to my kid. Oh, he's a mean kid. He put crazy glue in my Preparation H. (audience laughing) My daughter, she's no In public school she was (audience laughing) - [Johnny] You have a weird family. - But kids, they gotta Ooh, I'll tell ya, very bad with drugs. So many kids are using cocaine, cocaine is very big, you know. I mean, kids today, they don't they wanna shove it up their nose! (audience laughing) It's always something, new generation. My dog too, she gives me trouble. - [Johnny] Your dog? - Yeah, yeah, I got a I tried to mate her, (audience laughing) There's all kinds of You know that. You're alright. - Female's a female no matter - Every day there's Today's been a terrible day, terrible day. - [Johnny] What happened today? - I got up this morning and I didn't see the mousetrap. (audience laughing) Man, I can't take the pressure, Johnny, it's bad for my health. - [Johnny] How is your health? - Now it's time for health! - You been to your doctor lately? - My friend Dr. Vinnie Boombatz. - [Johnny] Yeah, that's the one. - He said my health is bad, very bad. Are you kiddin'? Very bad. I'm not a kid anymore, I'm getting old. I know I'm gettin' old. On my last birthday, cake (audience laughing) (laughing) You know how it is. I know I'm gettin' old. At my age, I want two Yeah, if I fall asleep they (audience laughing) What's new with you? (audience laughing) (Johnny laughing) - I assume you're through? (Johnny laughing) - Whatever you wanna do, It's alright. - We'll be back in a minute. (audience applauding)