Jupiter. A place of colossal storms, deadly whose mass is so great, it influences even the most studied objects in our solar system, with 7 today), and 2 additional planned missions. from the Sun. What causes its distinctive lies beneath its obscuring clouds? What do we vital role in protecting our solar system, Hi, I'm Alex McColgan, and welcome to Astrum. you could want to know about Jupiter. found on the outskirts of the asteroid belt, and 778 million km away from the Sun on average, Earth years. The axial tilt of the planet is experience much change in seasons, unlike Earth at the equator is greater than at the poles. system. It is so massive, its mass is 1/1000th but once you realise the Sun contains 99.86% of that Jupiter equals almost the remainder. Its other planets in the solar system combined. And the barycentre between Jupiter and the Sun at 1.068 solar radii from the Sun's centre. of an object orbiting another object, we don't gravitational influence on the bigger object. is negligible, like the ISS orbiting Earth, or happen. A barycentre is the centre of mass between in space they both orbit around. With Jupiter unlike Mercury, its effect is far from negligible. a little dance around this centre of mass, which show you this principle with an example. object and attach them to the ends of a long we need to find the centre of mass. As you the heavier object. Imagine this is the Sun and you'll understand how a barycentre works. planet in the solar system, it's not the it is the largest. If Neptune was the same size Jupiter was the same size as Earth, Earth would the diameter of Jupiter is 11 times that of Earth, As we know, mass affects gravity. This over twice that of Earth at 2.528 G at so influential in the solar system that it affects is strong enough to tear asteroids apart and that Jupiter destroyed many celestial objects planets from forming. One example of this, in the gravity of Jupiter is so significant around already eccentric orbit enough that in a crash into the Sun or be ejected from the solar be the hero of the inner 4 planets. Without it wouldn't be sucking up dangerous objects like enough to give them a little kick of energy so Jupiter is the 5th planet from the Sun, and Earth. Even so, it can be the 3rd brightest Venus. I just want to show you how bright that is. easily in the night sky. With a maximum apparent As a result of it being so obvious in amateur astronomers. As consumer telescopes what details you can see from your back garden. layer is only about 50km thick and contains but the colouration comes from compounds then rising. These compounds are known as they interact with the UV light of the Sun to This is quite the cycle though, and the face of if their colours do change, the actual latitude of identifying designations, but they can vary storms and turbulence occur where these behind Jupiter's very famous Great Red Spot. of Earth within it. It has existed for as long as 17th century. It might very well be a permanent decreased in size since observations began. and the colour of the spot can vary greatly - from for its colour is chemical compounds being broken way as the process that happens on the rest of in the atmosphere than the surrounding clouds a lot more. This would explain why its colour can But Jupiter doesn't just have one scientifically Spot Jr." formed when three storms merged and it has so far passed unscathed by a prominent feature of the planet. It could last the same fate of a similar storm which passed So, what do we think Jupiter is made of? are gaseous, then liquid, and then metallic forms the greater the pressure becomes. Under immense that is an ice or a rocky core. Because pressures Jupiter experiences, we don't really the core. Roughly 90% of Jupiter is thought amounts of methane, ammonia, and others. other planet, completing a rotation in only 10 rotate the same speed all over; a rotation at the As a child, I was very curious why Jupiter wasn't it is predominantly made of flammable hydrogen, set it alight. Well, the sad news for my inner plus there's barely any oxygen on Jupiter to allow nuclear fusion caused by the extreme pressures Jupiter would need to be roughly 75 times more a star, although interestingly its volume isn't And yes, you may have noticed in this picture, scale of Saturn, but there are 4 planetary bright, the rest quite wide but exceptionally and the only distinctive feature you will Something else to note about Jupiter is is 14 times stronger than Earth's due to the makes it the strongest magnetosphere and it's only beaten by the Sun's sunspots. interesting. The first is that magnetospheres produces magnificent aurorae. The second is protected from this solar wind because they orbit don't need their own strong magnetospheres However, this doesn't mean they are safe from band around it, the same radiation band that The closest large moon to Jupiter, Io, passes receiving 3600 rem per day on the surface. this much radiation would be dead within four When it comes to the Jovian moons, I'll only made a separate video about them here. Jupiter has diameter, but the largest - the "Galilean Moons" - are Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto, and they is actually the biggest moon in the solar system And with this final thought, take a look at the immense size and power of this planet, this an object from space, which if it had hit Earth, know it. We can be glad Jupiter is there, many ways it is an asset to our solar system. you learn something today about Jupiter you would you like to see next on this channel below and I'll see you next time. I particularly want to thank George, Brian and Jon required some long-time planning and work which we sustainability of your memberships as Astrumnauts has signed up. And if you'd like us to make more below. When you join you'll be able to watch the and submit questions to our team. Once again, huge meanwhile click the link to this playlist for