How did someone who apparently has no skill in drawing And why did everyone turn on him? I spent the last few weeks researching was probably the last thing Let's start with something A Rob Liefeld There's some wonky proportions here But before you go dunking on him, here's He did these drawings as a teenager. These drawings are from a portfolio that he had put together at 19 years old They would have been tucked under his arm standing in a long line, to show them to an editor from Marvel The head editor for Marvel says at the conventions. Hundreds of them hoping that this will be their big chance. And unlike everyone else in line, You see, when Liefeld was young, Over the next few years, Liefeld's father spending nine months and the medical costs But something came out of that experience because sitting all those hours alone would be a comic book. And this was the seventies when comic book George Perez, John Byrne, Neil Adams the medium. I can only imagine how necessary whose family is going through this that reality So comics become an obsession, as does, But despite his obvious natural talent, there was no way his family could afford He was working three jobs to support them he had left over. And now his father's tumor had come back. If he wanted to continue drawing at all, This portfolio review so he finally gets and sets his pages down before legendary Gruenwald shuffles through his pages. He looks up. Welcome to Marvel Comics, he says. You're hired. At 19 years old, Rob Liefeld He does a few small jobs for Marvel at a regular series. DC's Hawk and Dove. It's not exactly a prestigious job, but he's desperate so he brings his A-game And now it may be hard to see today It's obviously tame compared to the stuff But when you compare it with other comics I think you'll see it's got this that kind of makes it stand out. There are only a few other guys at this One of the most influential And McFarlane had just been promoted on The Incredible one of the highest profile jobs I think looking at this, that McFarlane was having on Liefeld classic house comics style into something And for Young Liefeld, it's working. Hawk and Dove becomes a big success. And so in 1988, after so many years as a fan, Liefeld gets to go as an honest And it's at this Comic-Con who will change the course of his life. One of his friends introduces him to this intense Canadian guy You're Rob Liefeld, he says, I know you. You're doing Hawk and Dove. It's Todd McFarlane. Todd McFarlane knows who Rob Liefeld is. They actually become fast friends. They end up spending the next 12 hours together, talking even though they're at different points McFarlane is older, married, and serious for success, hungry out of their financial situation. And what I see is this kind of big relationship forms between them. I mean, just check out this video I think you can see the dynamic at play. And the other biggest question that I get Unfortunately I did, yeah. He brags that while Liefeld he's busy drawing every brick working to set himself apart But Liefeld wants to set himself To catch up with McFarlane. And so in issue five of Hawk and Dove, an alternate dimension, without getting the writer's or editor's Well, that didn't go over so well. DC When they got the pages, He demanded that Liefeld and if he didn't, Liefeld refuses. Because, unbeknownst to everyone, he had been negotiating a deal See, Bob Harris, an editor at Marvel, family of books. Harris had gotten that job because a few years earlier he'd by taking a chance That artist's name was Todd McFarlane. Now Harris is looking for the next Todd to boost the sales of a struggling X-Men Rob Liefeld was going to be his next And just like he had on Hawk and Dove, Liefeld attacks This is an era when a book selling So his family's well-being He doesn't he has to get this book to sell well. And so almost immediately after coming on the book, And they do not look like characters And I'm just going to say it. Rob Liefeld is a strong character Hold on. Don't unsubscribe yet. Let me explain. I know he's mocked and guns and swords, but again, we have to Most superheroes were square jawed guys Just look at the covers before This thing is going He looks like he's about to murder And this cover is McFarlane They're just so in sync. They spend a ton of time and it almost seems to one up each other with how many lines And Liefeld begins in almost every issue of New Mutants. If he's competing with McFarlane While McFarlane co-created Venom, most of his work on Spider-Man great new visual But Liefeld is throwing in new wild is going from a struggling But then McFarlane takes things He gets the assignment that he won't only draw, but also write. Whether to keep up with McFarlane, or because he was generally trying Liefeld starts ignoring the scripts This forces Louis Simonson, to do last minute And unlike his editors at DC, Bob Harris So eventually Simonson is pushed off who is happy to work And so at this point, He introduces Domino, Deadpool, It's just pure insanity. Even if the plots and characters And it's during this time that McFarlane's the stands and it becomes the best Marvel had thrown all their resources, all Todd McFarlane is now the biggest comic book artist Even though he's supporting his family just as he's always dreamed, He wants to beat Todd McFarlane. But our pages are actually ten by 15, although Bob Harris says it's usually So he calls up Bob Harris and demands A new number one with all the marketing Once again, Harris is in his corner, and relaunch it a few months later as X-Force number one How will it sell? We'll talk about that in a minute, but you to listen to me talk about one other His page layouts. Inspired by how McFarlane in his comics, Liefeld begins to do Don't do tiny stuff. You know, it's been done a million times. Todd always beat that into me. Characters are given huge, Inspired by eighties manga like Appleseed, he works to compositionally anchor And I think this is where we start weird anatomy and perspective creep in. I always start with the head And that's So because while he understands dynamic pages, he doesn't So he ends up bending bodies and reality And, while later artists would take his bombastic approach I can't stress enough this would have been Like if you're a kid walking into a comic book store, were young kids, and you see this, it's probably the comic Okay, thanks for indulging me. Back to the story. X-Force number one finally comes out number one to become the best Like, this is insane. Five years earlier, Rob Liefeld He's drawn less than 30 comics in his entire life, and he's now the best And not only are the sales good, And he's all of one of the top talents in the comic book He appears in a Spike Lee commercial At 23 years old, Liefeld had achieved But it's still not enough for him stunt yet. In the middle of his run on X-Force, comic, The Executioners, emphasis You can probably imagine the phone call They threatened to sue him. They threatened to take away And so now he does something even crazier. He quits Marvel Comics. He and McFarlane, along with a few other top Marvel artists, had been plotting So they walk out and start Image Comics. Now I'm leaving so much about Jim Lee, Whilce These guys all deserve their own videos, so if that's something you want But the short version is this is an absolute earthquake For McFarlane, He felt he wasn't getting the level of respect They would use his drawings on a T-shirt He wanted to hurt Marvel For Liefeld, he saw the financial side. He saw the action figures of the t shirts and how much money Marvel was making off And he's done the math. X-Force was a huge hit about 200,000 copies to make the same amount of money off of it But when his image comic Youngblood It sells over a million copies and becomes the highest selling And not only that, The day Youngblood launches, for one of the weirdest talk Well, how old are you? I'm 24. Well, when I was young, we used to read, uh, did you ever read Daredevil, X-Men, Oh yeah, I work for Marvel. For me personally, it's the tipping point begins to go just too far. It seems that his success had caused him further as an artist, and he leans harder Like, he introduces not just one team, And then in issue two, he introduces another team And those innovative, eye grabbing They may look great to flip through, a comic's ability to tell a story. Because while, yes, Appleseed were using these big anchored images, with pages and pages of rock solid But Youngblood disposes of all of that. Issue two has five double page I'll put a link down below while it's kind of incomprehensible, it does have this raw overabundance And that energy isn't just on the page. It's spread into Liefeld's life. He gets a cushy office and starts He wants the best working for him and starts He pays double, triple the industry He launches more and more comics, and handing them off to his staff. He ends up with 65 employees He's 25 years old But this is where his path has diverged While Liefeld was growing an empire. McFarlane has focused all of his energy Spawn. And Spawn It beats Youngblood to become the best comic book of all time. Liefeld begins to resent McFarlane, is more valuable and more important And while Spawn is shipping regularly, Youngblood is slipping further Liefeld takes over a year to publish the first five issues six comes out. McFarlane yells at Liefeld time is giving all of Image Liefeld For his part, begins referring to McFarlane Tensions between Liefeld and while I can't know what he was seems like it was intentionally designed See, since the departure of the Image had been struggling with sales, There are a lot of causes of that storytelling of the nineties But now new leadership had come in to shake things up. And so they reach out to Todd McFarlane $3 million to come back He turned them down point blank. Marvel was the enemy and no amount of But then shortly after, he finds out Rob Liefeld. Rob Liefeld is going to take over It was a clear betrayal of McFarlane's vision for Image Comics, of his desire Liefeld had gotten his revenge, In a unanimous vote of the Image partners, Or he quit. There's some debate, sources are below, but either way, the result was a messy The man who inspired him, who became his partner in business was now He had given it all up for this job Was it worth it? Probably not, because things start Liefeld's Captain America and Marvel's It's during this period this infamous drawing that would end up And then Marvel declares bankruptcy. Again, there's a lot of causes for that and maybe that's a good topic What matters is that new leadership and so his Captain America After giving up so much for this job And McFarlane, bitter over their dispute, uses every opportunity He says everything you need to know about He robs. He lies and he fails. Liefeld's Articles accusing him of swiping art A whole cottage industry pops up of memes And the aw shucks, persona disappears. His public persona He gets into fights on social media with other creators over credit He promises new projects that take years To me, he seems bitter. Success had come so quickly and evaporated And all the while, Image becomes a huge success. McFarlane's toy business revolutionizes It becomes a serious challenger so that he gradually hands off of the creative responsibilities on Spawn And its here, I think, that to success, because while McFarlane He's still drawing comics today, I can't imagine he needs the money, and every issue he releases Because this is his real secret. X-Men 108, John Byrne's very first issue of the X-Men, the Shi'ar off-planet Rob Liefeld loves comics and for a brief period, that love to overcome all of his technical But that very success would corrupt him. It would cost him and his friendships. But the story doesn't end on a sad note, he seems to have lightened up, drawing comics, and most importantly, I meet 23 year olds today and I got, oh my gosh, I was such a dumbass. I can't believe I was doing I would never put that guy in charge! Let me just jump to the point, Thank you guys so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, you can really help out by sharing it I'll see you guys soon.