(stately music) - [Narrator] Queen is the popular face of British royalty. For nearly a hundred years, she has dedicated herself her friends, and her duties. Despite her age, she stands out well in the company of younger With her two daughters on the balcony of Buckingham Palace, the command a powerful audience. When the Queen Mother steps out, she's always a picture of gracious smiles and floating summery frocks. (lighthearted string music) Flower shows are her forte. With cameras present, her natural charm and elegant shines through. As far as the press are concerned. she's the most professional and they admit that she According to the Queen, she has always been a marvelous mother, standing back and never interfering. Ever mobile, the Queen that she likes to enjoy herself, have fun and a good time. But behind this image there is a tough, charming public relations genius who believes deeply in of the state. Privately, she is ultra conservative and in fact very politically incorrect. Born at the turn of the century, she's one of the last from the privileged days of the nobility. She can exercise control yet the public image transcends all the class barriers. She admits privately that &quot;one my little treats.&quot; (lively instrumental music) For nearly a century, the has graced the balcony As London's most famous building, the palace has become the and home of the royal family firm, an endearing term coined The Queen Mother first stepped when she married her husband in 1923. 25 years later, in 1948, they drove out of the to the sound of cheers from the crowd to celebrate their silver (crowd cheering) Queen Victoria was the reigning monarch when Elizabeth was born in 1900. She had been on the throne for 63 years and had had nine children. In 1901, she died, and to the throne as King Edward VII with his beautiful wife, Queen Alexandra. Their son became King George V in 1910. (gentle piano music) Against this background of royal history, Elizabeth Angela Marguerite Bowes-Lyon was born on the fourth of August 1900 into an aristocratic family. Her father, the 14th Earl of Strathmore who was descended from inherited a small fortune in 1904 making him a multi-millionaire - The Bowes-Lyons were a very old family going back to God-knows-whom in Scotland, and they were also very rich. They had come into as well as having a lot of land, and they owned several castles, a huge house in St. - Her father didn't really so at the time that they thought that she might marry into the royal family he wasn't especially impressed by that because they were really aristocrats in their own right and had come down, they were descended from So really, a very, very grand family. - [Narrator] Educated at home, Elizabeth grew up at Glamis Castle, one of Scotland's most Set in a park modeled in the fashion of landscape gardener Capability Brown, it's been in the Strathmore The young Elizabeth was They were fun-loving, and together they enjoyed - They were like a sort at the end of the line, and she was very, very close with him. She was very, very fond of him. Both of them were charming I think their mother used to call them the two little Benjamins. - [Narrator] The Strathmore's so their new little girl With eight older brothers and sisters, not surprisingly Elizabeth was the apple of her mother's eye. - She was very close to her mother and I think perhaps she was a bit spoiled because she was a very charming child, and all the servants adored her. She used to go into the kitchen and beg for extra jellies and I think because of her great charm she could get away with anything. - [Narrator] Elizabeth at Glamis castle, and she grew into an attractive young girl with a gentle manner. - She was very petite and small and she had a pretty heart-shaped face, beautiful blue eyes and and dark hair which she wore for those days, with a fringe. But she had this sort She had this great power even then of making people feel that that she was only interested in them, which is one of the most you can have. - [Narrator] The First World War broke out in August 1914 on King George V led the nation's war effort by example as well as by position. He was photographed visiting but the news from the front was gloomy. Back in Scotland at Glamis Castle, the Strathmore family opened their home to wounded officers. The young Elizabeth was always there to make them feel comfortable. After their convalescence was over, the officers would write to Elizabeth. Always caring and considerate, &quot;Dear Harding, thank you &quot;I'm sorry that you can't find a job. &quot;It seems to be very difficult now.&quot; - She saw if not the she saw the results of it, and she was sort of partners, part companion, part younger sister. She used to read to them. She'd write letters for them, and she was just with with One of them said at the time that, something that's been noticed that when she spoke to you it was as if you were the - [Narrator] King George V and Queen Mary had six children. He believed that fear all of whom were terrified of him. Bertie, on the left was their second son. His oldest brother, David, on the right was always singled out for particularly unpleasant treatment. - Queen Mary believed, well, she believed that that her husband was rather than their father. He was a rather bad-tempered and grouchy old codger at the time. And he once said that, I that is, the very genial, and I'm gonna make bloody sure that my children are afraid of me. Now I don't know if this but he was a bad-tempered, an old grouch, and they were frightened of him and all of them were highly nervous. Many of them suffered which is a sign of extreme nervousness. - [Narrator] The young the only daughter of the King and Queen. During the First World She remained close to her mother for the rest of her life. Through her involvement with Princess Mary met the who was also a Girl Guide. It was through this was introduced into the royal family. - Elizabeth Bowes-Lyons and and they became more involved because Elizabeth ran the Forfar branch of the Girl Guides which is up in Glamis. And Princess Mary had to come and they used that as an They became quite good friends. They corresponded, and of course both Lady Strathmore because Elizabeth was one of 10 children and basically she needed to and Queen Mary needed her sons married off and there was Elizabeth, So the relationship was encouraged. - [Narrator] In 1922, Princess Mary married Viscount Lascelles who became the sixth Earl of Harwood. Their son, George, would be The Lascelles's wedding and the young Elizabeth, was a bridesmaid. - By the standards of that time, she didn't look that wonderful because they had sort of almost like very tight veils on with, I think, silver leaf headbands and I mean, if you look, by today they looked rather frumpy but I'm sure at the time everyone thought they And Elizabeth was very stunning. - [Narrator] Photographed at the races, the young royal princes, made a dashing picture. In contrast to their sons, King George and Queen There were strict rules of royal protocol that had to be respected were introduced into the royal family. - The height of this was and Elizabeth was presented at court to Queen Mary and King George V, and as the daughter of an earl she would have been quite And of course, that all helped It was also a round of parties but not to be judged by These young girls were never, Elizabeth was either chaperoned by her sister or one of her cousins or indeed her mother, Lady Strathmore. She would never really with a young man, so you have to judge it by the standards of the time. - [Narrator] Elizabeth's as a shy little person and wanted her to marry an Elizabeth took a fancy to son of the Earl of Moray, who'd returned from the war - James Stuart was very handsome and a wonderful dancer and according to popular myth, which has actually now been proven, that Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon But Queen Mary and Lady Strathmore saw that he was actually in the way of their two offspring forming any kind of relationship, so he was dispatched to He was almost exiled. - [Narrator] Elizabeth Bertie to his family, at shortly after he was and three months later he While his brother courted Elizabeth, David, now the Prince of Wales, fell for Mrs. Freda Dudley Ward, a married woman with two children. - He was, after all, the Prince of Wales and he was off on his own demimonde, which was not the royal I don't think that she ever because at one time when as the press does, they both made a hell of a fuss about it denying it like mad. - [Narrator] Bertie fell for and wrote to a friend, &quot;My &quot;It seems so marvelous to me to know &quot;that my darling Elizabeth - She was really the center A lot of men were in love with her. She was a great deb in her day. And he, when he met her, absolutely instantly, and he was, with all his failings, because very shy, very reserved man, but he was always a very determined man. And once having fallen in love with her, he was determined to marry her. So he asked her three times, and for the first two She didn't really want to be caught in this kind of royal cage. She was a woman who was She didn't really want to lead which marrying into the But he was very persistent, and he simply kept at her and kept at her and kept at her, and - She really loved him. He had a very vulnerable quality which is very appealing to some women, and he did really need her. And then he was physically attractive. He had a very good figure. He danced very well. He was very athletic, and he was a really good guy. - It was a really very popular marriage. Of course the Prince wasn't married at the time so there was rather pressure really on the Duke of York to marry. So when they were married, it was a great public occasion. The public were very taken with it because she was very, very beautiful and he was a good-looking man. It was a kind of romantic - She was so good for Bertie. She brought him out, she supported him. She made his life fun. She made everything go around him. And I suppose they must because he'd had history of bad health, because he stammered and was very shy, and so nobody could have been more ideal. - [Narrator] At 23, described by one unsuccessful suitor as having an indescribable On her wedding day, the bride stepped out of the family home in Bruton Street accompanied by her father. On that cold, damp eager eyes in the crowd of the royal couple and millions of people lined the roads to cheer them. The presents came pouring in. King George gave her a suite of diamonds, and Queen Mary, sapphires and diamonds from her own collection. Her wedding dress was described as the simplest wedding dress - Wedding dresses were They reflected absolutely the It was made of an extraordinary fabric, which, I must say, puzzles me enormously, which is chiffon moire which is almost a contradiction in terms. And it was not a regal wedding dress. It was not a royal bride's wedding dress, but it was a sort of a young, I mean, it was perfect for her, for exactly who she was. It was the right dress. But looking back, it was But all dresses at that And it was a medieval and these bands of silver lames. It was sort of seeded and then a long band going to the floor. So it had this odd medieval look mixed with the 20s sort of straight shape. It's very difficult to have these veils which were, in fact, instead of just being which the Queen Mother went they were rather oppressive, almost claustrophobic closhes, sort of ribboned down. And she's kept that with her hats, but that in private, too. - [Narrator] The couple at Westminster Abbey. The Archbishop of York assured them that the of the people takes you today into itself. The newlyweds returned in the state glass coach with its imposing escort of cavalry. (crowd cheering) Elizabeth was now Her Royal Highness, the Duchess of York. As fourth royal lady in the land, she was now entitled to curtsies and all the other royal tributes. The processions swept and into the palace. There was something very His clean-cut good looks and they both looked radiant. The bride and bridegroom to acknowledge the cheers from the crowds. The wedding breakfast was held in the state dining room for 123 people, with 66 of the closest relatives seated at tables prettily decorated with Elizabeth's favorite The young couple left on their honeymoon from Waterloo station The new royal bride had to a magazine, much to the - The interview she gave, which she sort of did outgoing newly married young and she was giving away a her father-in-law, had like what they had for breakfast and what the color of the furniture was. And he told her, please don't do that. He adored her, actually, so and I think she took the lesson to heart. And although the royal sort of forthcoming since then and we know more about I think that rule stuck. What her father-in-law told - [Narrator] On the 21st of April, 1926, after a difficult labor the Duchess of York gave birth to a girl. Queen Mary wrote in her diary, &quot;a little darling with a lovely complexion &quot;and pretty fair hair.&quot; She was christened giving her the same The Duchess gave birth Princess Margaret Rose, in August 1930. (gentle music) The King and Queen were delighted with their little granddaughters. Marriage transformed Bertie's life. Most of all, Elizabeth of a happy home and a precious family. - In private, they say that he was a man who could be quite easy, quite amusing, quite at ease with himself in private. But in public, he had none of this. She was exactly the opposite. She had all the strength and as she wasn't in any she wasn't in any way a hard woman, she knew exactly how to handle him. She knew exactly how to so they were very, very good together. It was a very, very successful marriage. He said many years later when his daughter, Elizabeth, he said, &quot;Your mother is &quot;in the world.&quot; And I think this is perfectly true. They were a devoted couple. - [Narrator] The Duke and Duchess of York were the rising stars of Elizabeth, known as the smiling Duchess, was her husband's mainstay. Attention now turned to the George Duke of Kent. Despite a playboy reputation, he married Princess the granddaughter of Grand - George Duke of Kent and he made a very, very good marriage in Princess Marina of Greece. Not only was she beautiful, she was elegant, and they became the sort of There were huge photographs of them, hoardings in the street. And their marriage in Westminster Abbey was a very swelligant, elegant affair, and she was dressed by Molyneux But behind their facade handsome couple, that He'd had a lot of problems which his brother, David, David really adored George and when George became side of life and dabbled it was David that helped him. And the great tragedy was that in 1942, he was on a mission in Scotland and it was a very foggy day and the plane actually flew and crashed and everybody And for many years, there that this perhaps was some plot, but there's no evidence and to this day there's been no evidence than a very tragic accident. Princess Marina was She had a baby son. She suddenly was on her own. She then sought refuge, perhaps, in the world of show business and eventually went on to have which is well documented. - [Narrator] Henry Duke of Gloucester, in the middle, was the next royal brother to find a wife. In November, 1935, he married Lady Alice, daughter of the seventh Duke in the chapel in Buckingham Palace. The little princesses, were bridesmaids. Her wedding dress was who was making his debut as a designer of royal wedding dresses. Lady Alice was a and the two women have been - When they were both young girls, they were on the party and they did form a friendship. But it really became asked Princess Elizabeth to be bridesmaids at her wedding and the Queen Mother went who was making the bride's dress and the bridesmaids dresses, and that was her first And he instructed all his like a swan, he said, not like a starling. And that was the beginning association with Norman Hartnell, which lasted for the rest of his life. - [Narrator] The only remaining David Prince of Wales, heir to the throne, was enjoying himself mingling He enjoyed close relationships with some of the most including Lady Thelma Furness. In 1933, there was a new Mrs. Wallis Simpson, an American divorcee. Already into her second marriage, the couple were brought together after he invited Wallis and her husband to join his party of royal friends for a cruising holiday off Biarritz. - Wallis and her husband, Ernest, her then-husband, were social climbers, and you can't get higher I mean, they weren't going to assail the very top of the town but the Prince of Wales I think, actually, the was more important to her. If she fell in love with him, which I'm sure she did at some time, what got her there was the which were, of course, highly successful. - [Narrator] The Duchess of her brother-in-law's philandering. Although his shenanigans in the British press, they did not escape the - The Duchess of York disapproved strongly of David's lifestyle. She didn't think it was dignified. He used to walk around paying bagpipes. He was very eccentric. He used to be inconsiderate to his staff. I think she didn't like that. He would wouldn't tell his chauffeur he was going to go from to the Duchy of Cornwall office. He would just walk down the street and not tell his chauffeur. He would make his own phone calls, which put put the switchboard and he would do exactly what he wanted. And in particular reference to the Duke and Duchess of York, he a hospital in Scotland and he said to them, I can't do it. You'll have to do it. So Bertie and Elizabeth went up and opened the hospital, much to their horror, that but he was at the station as a disguise and waiting for Wallis to come up on the train to Balmoral. And the Duchess was - I don't think she approved In fact, I don't think She was perfectly happy about some of the Prince of Wales's mistresses, like Thelma Lady Furness, She was perfectly happy with her. But there was something about Wallis that she didn't like, and the way that Wallis took and separated him from his brothers. (soft string music) - [Narrator] Meanwhile the Duke and Duchess of York had created a haven of peace and They furnished the in the informal style of a with views over the garden, which Elizabeth and Bertie In the gardens, Bertie from the huge grounds which as a keen amateur gardener. By the time of his Jubilee the old King was a very sick man. While George V was alive, the issue of David's love At 70, the King's health was fading. By January, 1936 he was dying. - [Announcer] The following The King's life is moving - [Narrator] Following his coffin were his sons led by David, having succeeded his father to the throne. The old King had prophesied &quot;My son will ruin himself His warning had a certain knowing tone. In fact, it took only 11. - Our late sovereign lord, King George V, of blessed and glorious memory that the high and mighty George Andrew Patrick David (cannon booming) is now become our only lawful King by this of God of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions beyond the seas, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India. God save the King! (cannons booming) - [Narrator] Elizabeth the Duchess of York avoided the new King's mistress. - There was a story about one occasion when he had been become King. He was then King Edward VIII and gave a dinner party at Balmoral to which the Duke and Duchess of York, as they then were, were invited. And Wallis Simpson she came forward to welcome to Balmoral. And the Queen Mother, would have nothing to do with her. She simply walked past her and said, &quot;I've come to have dinner with a king,&quot; and simply walked past Wallis Simpson, absolutely ignored her. Never, never, never liked her at all. - [Narrator] Outwardly Edward VIII followed his father's traditions. He kept up the ceremonial but he was a king in church, and family. The British public had about his activities with a married woman, but on a trip abroad he and Mrs. Simpson were received by Adolf Hitler. - Wallis was kept very I mean, the family were aware of her but she was sort of persona non grata, and Edward had to go through David, had to go through all sorts of devices to get her even through the And I don't think Elizabeth knew her until she suddenly reared her head as the great obstacle to That, of course, meant that her husband was going to become King in his stead. And at that point, I very fondly of Wallis. They were very different people. I mean, Wallis was a hard, shiny bright, typically brash American, cool, cold. And Elizabeth was aristocratic but relaxed in the nice I don't think they would have got on together at all anyway. - [Narrator] David's love for Wallis, now twice divorced, caused After the Bishop of Norwich spoke out, the King abdicated. The Press reported that Mrs. and for the first time in Britain, their King's relationship was out in the open. - [King Edward VIII] which have impelled me Believe me when I tell you that I have found it impossible to carry the heavy and to discharge my duties as King as I would wish to do without the help and - [Narrator] Crowds, gathered outside Buckingham Palace. In June 1937, David, and Wallis were married in France at the Chateau de Cande near Tours. (gentle music) In spite of the Duke's requests, no member of his family and the marriage gained The Church of England wanted The day before, his brother, Wallis would not share her She could call herself but she was not to be addressed Bertie became King George VI. He was totally unprepared and commented, &quot;With my wife &quot;I take up the heavy burden - He was highly nervous. He had an ulcer, he had a stammer. I mean, the fella should It would have done him far better. No, he wasn't prepared. He was absolutely terrified. I mean, he burst into what was happening and cried Now, that monument to duty, probity, and self-control couldn't have but that's what he did. And he was running around muttering about a lamb to the slaughter. He was totally unprepared, It was completely unexpected. - From the start, when the and got older and older there was the thought that her husband, that the Duke of York might become king. So there already was a thought but even so, it came as a great shock when actually, when and they were called upon - [Narrator] On Coronation crowds lined the route to capture a glimpse of King George After the shock of the abdication, the British people had into their hearts. The King chose the date already arranged for his brother's coronation, saying, sardonically, &quot;Same (soft instrumental music) His mother, Queen Mary, with his two young daughters, In Westminster Abbey, he embroidered with shimmering He looked ghost white. To many of the guests sacred ritual, the moment and robed for the crowning a symbol, perhaps, of the After the coronation, there seemed to be a He suddenly acquired the Beside him, Elizabeth rose - She knew her husband very well. She knew his frailties. She knew that he was terribly shy, that he had, in fact, crowd phobia. He really didn't like that. And so she could see the enormous a burden that will be placed on - [Narrator] On one of their a state visit to France in July 1938, the Republican country fell to the charms of the royal couple. Headlines proclaimed, we have taken the Queen to our hearts. She rules over two nations. France is a monarchy again. The King and Queen breathe fresh life into the Entente Cordial French newsreels recorded their visit and were enthralled by created for the Queen by Norman Hartnell. - Norman Hartnell started and then he moved on to other But it was rarely for the Queen And when Lady Strathmore was going on a big state visit to Paris and she suddenly had to wear mourning. And Hartnell came up with the idea instead of having black, to have white, and the Queen mother took in these beautiful white which he had to make in about a fortnight. But remember, he had 400 in those days. - Every single one those 30 for that visit was white. I mean, the parasols were white, the gloves, the shoes, And they were all long, I mean, even if you did it today, even today it would be sensational. And the French, it took France by storm. I mean, they're not the but apparently they said it has a new Queen. People cheered, people cooed, and the fabrics, the they make me want to cry even today. I mean, great garlands of camellias and lace, cobweb lace, This was, you know, the Queen Mother has something about and it was uniquely for the French visit. I can remember a friend that no one will ever repeat It probably was the made by a royal person - [Narrator] The French for the Queen. Norman Hartnell continued until the end of his life. - The Queen Mother was very She's nothing to do with and he was the man in the right place at the right time who and joyfully accepted to with this very strong taste of her own which she's never All the craft, all the could be lavished both on his work for her. (crowd cheering) - [Narrator] On official visits, Queen Elizabeth was often Princess Elizabeth and Princess Margaret. - The family life of always, of course, known as Mary Rose seems to have been as near Their father was incredibly soft, tender, indulgent, particularly with Princess Margaret. Their mother in many ways seems to be by the standards of the 20s or 30s almost more of a friend to them than either a formal mother, finally a Queen Empress herself. - [Narrator] After their now the Duke and Duchess of (lively instrumental music) They were photographed at a gala in Cannes close to the location at Cap d'Antibes. The Duke considered his exile and he assumed that it before they were accepted back in Britain. This was never to be. Reports of a tour the Duke made to Germany was headline This upset the royal family who were concerned that Germany was rearming its war machine. On a lighter note for the royal family, the United States were when, in 1939, the King and Queen embarked on a six-week royal tour of the continent, the first reigning monarchs On the eighth of June, 1939, they were greeted in Washington (crowd cheering) Huge crowds turned out to welcome them. (canon booming) The King reveled at this chance Queen Elizabeth and the president's wife, Eleanor Roosevelt, struck as did their husbands. On this trip, they won a Their visit was a triumph which was to have far-reaching effects for Britain. In the darkest days of World War II, this relationship would prove invaluable. Here, as in France a year before, the American people were captivated by Elizabeth's dignity and grace and particularly charmed elegant creations. Their tour included a visit to Canada. Despite initial apprehensions, they received a warm welcome even among the french-speaking population. In performing his public duties, the King was regularly but his speech impediment, which he had had since his childhood, made this a grueling experience. For a man with a stammer, a speech in French to the people of Quebec was a particularly terrifying experience. (speaking in foreign language) The King and Queen were thrown into a ceaseless round of work. Elizabeth did all she could to lighten her husband's burden and make his official duties and public appearances easier for him. In 1939, with the war the royal family were attending a Scout camp. For he's a jolly good fellow And so say all of us I should be under the Under the In my, on my In my, on my In my, on my Oh, how happy I should be under the (laughing) (crowd cheering) - [Narrator] Shortly before the war, Queen Elizabeth launched The Queen Elizabeth was the ever built for the Cunard Line. The event was recorded The occasion offers a rare opportunity to hear her speaking. - This ceremony, to which many thousands have looked forward so eagerly, must now take place in circumstances far different from those I have, however, a message He bids the people of this country to be of good cheer in hanging over them, and - [Narrator] As war was everyone looked to the royal family for morale and leadership. In 1940, Buckingham Palace Queen Mary had been sent Elizabeth wrote to her, &quot;My darling Mama, I &quot;to tell you of the horrible attack &quot;on Buckingham Palace this morning. &quot;Bertie and I arrived &quot;and he and I went up to When the royal couple the Queen said, &quot;I'm &quot;Now we can look the There were lighter moments. When an explosion hit the garden was flooded with rats which everyone had great fun chasing. By the end of the war, the Queen recalled, &quot;There were no windows left at all. &quot;Poor old house.&quot; While the King believed the strain of the war He was a heavy smoker. - I don't think she tried to and I don't think she realized probably how bad it was for him. When it came to the drinking, the drinking didn't affect his daily life, didn't affect his work. He used to like a good hearty swig out of the whiskey particularly at regimental dinners. When it came to his fits of temper, she was one of the few - Whenever he was in a temper, they say that she would and go, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, just to make him laugh at himself. He took himself very seriously. He took everything extremely seriously. She's got a more buoyant nature. She tends to throw things they complement each Where he was short-tempered, she really was kind of as She was a very easy woman, and this is exactly the He was a tremendous worrier. She was a woman who simply had a way of casting off her worries, - [Narrator] Queen Elizabeth to the wounded. Her wartime morale-boosting Hitler regarded her as the - He felt that she had the King, by then King George VI, under her thumb. He thought that she a very strong-minded woman and that her husband, was a rather weak-minded man. And so he was very conscious of the fact that she might have been But I don't think she really was. I think she was a tremendous but I wouldn't have said that she was actually the But Hitler was very conscious of considerable strength of character, which indeed she was. - [Narrator] Despite the refused to leave their country. Like everyone in wartime Britain, they had a ration book Whenever possible, the King and Queen shared the deprivation of their subjects. Queen Elizabeth joined the war effort in a knitting campaign with other ladies at Buckingham Palace. Despite the circumstances the Queen always made an (ladies chattering) - She said, quite honestly, &quot;If the poor people were coming to see me, &quot;they would certainly look their best, &quot;and I should look my best for them.&quot; And I think that's a genuine thing of how she likes to look her best. She does to this day. She always has and she always will. - [Narrator] Hats became As a member of the royal family firm, her face had to be visible to the public. She incorporated in their design emblems that reflected the war effort, like the winged insignia - She liked to say she but in fact she did get more by a large, large chunk. But the fact is she still wore, she would always wear a hat. It was unacceptable, I think, for her not to wear a hat. She couldn't have borne to go out. She would not have been dressed. And obviously it reflected the sacrifices people were having to make. The hats were much of much, much sturdier, more useful, I mean, cheaper really, I Felts and wools and 'cause felt works very well for a hat. - [Narrator] During the war, the teenage princesses and Princess Elizabeth Finally, when the King and by the rigors they and their country had been through, the long Queen Elizabeth's wartime when Nazi Germany surrendered - Hostilities will end after midnight tonight, But in the interest of saving lives, the cease fire began yesterday to be sounded along all the fronts. The German war is therefore at an end. We may allow ourselves a Today is Victory in Europe Day. (crowd cheering) (lively music) - [Crowd] We want the King! We Want the King! We want the King! We want the King! (crowd cheering) - [Narrator] The King, appeared on the palace balcony with Prime Minister Winston Thousands of people as victory in Europe was celebrated. In 1947, the royal family left Britain aboard the battleship HMS Vanguard for a state visit to South Africa. The three-week voyage and unwind after the ordeals of war. (lighthearted music) Everywhere they went, enthusiastic crowds greeted the royal family. The two-month tour in South Africa, then a British dominion, would prove very demanding for the King. The pressures of war had and he had lost a lot of weight. He was on a mission to stop from winning an election and imposing Apartheid on the country. His mission failed. However, despite the the Queen always managed to look her best. As a young man, Theo Aronson recalls one particular occasion. - We drove there through one day to this terrible Railway Society. Not a blade of grass, not a tree, just this desolate country all around, and about 20 of us waited The King got out wearing an and the princesses got our just wearing ordinary little cotton or linen dresses, but the Queen dresses Tremendous ostrich feather hat and floating panels with ostrich feathers and pearls and jewels and quite right, too. She had come 6,000 miles on that very day. 32 years later, I met her. I'll tell you this little story. And I said, &quot;The first time I'd seen you,&quot; I said, &quot;you'd stepped off that train &quot;and I thought you looked And she fell apart, she She said, &quot;Mr. Aronson, we so seldom hear &quot;that kind of spontaneous remark. &quot;It makes all our - [Narrator] Princess Elizabeth celebrated her 21st birthday in South Africa. In a speech, she acknowledged that her coming-of-age was also - I stand before you whether it be long or short, shall be devoted to your service and to the service of to which we all belong. - [Narrator] Princess with Prince Philip of Greece. Their engagement was announced on their return from South Africa. Princess Elizabeth fell in love with the exiled and penniless then a serving officer in the Royal Navy. For Elizabeth, it was love at first sight. Prince Philip's parents were divorced, and it fell upon his ambitious to steer the young prince in the direction of royal marriage. - At the beginning, they They thought that the present Queen was too young, really. She should really have met some other men. But the present Queen, I mean, their daughter Elizabeth to marry Philip. And so in the end, they liked him. He was a kind of man's man that King George VI liked. - [Narrator] Louis was married to one of the Edwina Ashley. The Queen thought them - She had certain reservations and his Aunt Edwina Mountbatten. She thought that Dickie and ambitious, and tried to out of Bertie, who was very fond of him. She disapproved very much of Edwina, who she thought was a champagne - [Narrator] On November the 20th, 1947, Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip were married in Westminster Abbey. It was a spectacular wedding which symbolized the end of an era of austerity for the nation and prompted fresh happiness The bride wore a fabulous embroidered gown and the Queen lent her a royal heirloom. - Of course, there is a strong tradition for a bride to wear something borrowed on her wedding day, and for she was lent a fabulous that was originally set the Hanoverian tiara, to Queen Victoria and It's very bridal. It does frame the face beautifully and is a very fitting - I mean, of all the weddings this one touches my heart the most, I have to say. It was so beautiful. It meant so much. It was the end of post-war austerity. It was embroidered with love, I mean, they say that people sent in their clothing ration coupons, Everybody wanted their dream and the dress reflected that. It was designed by Norman Hartnell. It was inspired by Botticelli, apparently, and it had York roses and which actually can die a death, but on this dress they really didn't. They looked absolutely wonderful. Every single seamstress, and I'm not sure how many there were, some talk of hundreds, did from her own head into And the veil, I think it was It was fine ivory, silk tulle, and it was embroidered, and light and very, very beautiful. She adored the man she was going to marry, and who wouldn't. He was devastatingly handsome. And she loved her father, who was this shy man with the stutter who'd come to the throne unexpectedly. She adored him, and you of what she and he must have felt like in that the letter is preserved that he wrote to her about the wedding after the occasion, in which he told her how incredibly moved he was and how full of love he down the aisle. It's a wonderful letter and should be read because it shows something very special about a father and a - [Narrator] The Queen of us four must now include Philip. At 47, she would never Princess Elizabeth would Queen Mary was aware that the monarchy was secure. Three generations of royalty on the same spot where had stood 24 years before. Scenes of her daughter's wedding must have brought back memories of to the shy young man, (gentle instrumental music) Prince Charles was born in 1948 and christened at Buckingham As Queen Elizabeth's first grandchild, Charles was destined to He became the son she never had. Two years later, his sister, Spontaneous moments of love and affection for his grandmother were captured It was to her that he sent him away to boarding school. - When he was at school, at Gordonstoun, which he detested, he was terribly lonely. He was bullied. He was absolutely miserable, and he would go and stay And she would encourage him and encourage his taste in music and generally cherish him, and I think she saw in him that her husband had had. And they were very close. - He was a great favorite with her, and I think she encouraged that his parents didn't. They were rather conventional. The Queen and Prince Philip of what young men should be. The Queen Mother appreciated his softer, more artistic side, and encouraged him as as a young man. - [Narrator] In 1948, the their silver wedding anniversary. King George, only 53 and already suffering the early symptoms of his final illness, bravely made a speech. - [King George VI] We have of a world-wide expression towards us, which has greatly moved us. It has been an unforgettable experience to realize how many thousands of people there are in this world who wish to join in the for the 25 years of which have been granted to us. - [Narrator] The King glamorous film galas. Outshining stage and came effortlessly to Queen Elizabeth. This was the kind of She loved mixing with theatrical people who found her enchanting with her easygoing While the world of its glamour icons, the Queen In January 1952, Princess on behalf of her sick father. She would never see him again. The King died in his sleep at Sandringham just six days later. - [Announcer] It was at 10:45 today, February the sixth, 1952, that the King, who in his usual health, in his sleep early this morning. - [Narrator] A week Princess Elizabeth returned to Britain as Queen Elizabeth II. Her government's ministers waited to receive her on the tarmac. The statesmen who had served her father would now serve her. Her father's forced kingship had finally taken their toll. He was only 57. - I don't think George VI would He smoked too much, his health was bad, and I don't think being was all there was to it. I mean, it was obviously a but I think what really did him in was the Second World War only three years after he became king. That was a tremendous strain on him. But in his state of health I don't think he'd have (bell tolling) - [Narrator] Queen Elizabeth were completely shattered On the day of his funeral, the coffin was covered and a wreath bearing the message, darling Bertie, from his loving Elizabeth. Following behind the coffin David, whose abdication in 1936 had forced the crown onto his brother. David followed as a although his wife, Wallis, who had never been was not invited. The Queen Mother blamed the Duchess and most of all the Duke of Windsor for the King's early death. - I think she certainly believed by his irresponsibility in abdicating and leaving the throne to George VI, had shortened her husband's life. She absolutely, seriously believed this, and there's a certain Because of the strain he went through, particularly during the war when he was informed by Churchill of exactly what was happening, I think his worry and this kind of thing, did shorten his life. - He was a tremendous worrier and borne down by the whole I'm absolutely sure it shortened his life. Yes, it was, for a man of his nature who had the stammer, who was very shy, it was a tremendous responsibility. And although she did absolutely everything to ease his path, I'm absolutely sure that being king shortened his life. And she knew this, and I think always bore a grudge against the then Duke and Duchess of Windsor the life of her husband. - [Narrator] On June the second, 1953, the world witnessed crowned Queen Elizabeth II. It was the first televised coronation. (choir singing indistinctly) Elizabeth, now officially guided her four-year-old throughout the long service. She was only the second to watch the crown being placed Much was expected of the young queen, only 26 at her coronation She would need the experience - [Crowd] God save the Queen! God save the Queen! God save the Queen! - [Narrator] The Queen requested that she be that she and her husband Family unity, so much on display that day, would soon be tested. By the time of the 1947 Princess Margaret was falling in love with her father's equerry, Group Captain Peter After the King's death, Working for the Queen Clarence House, he was now - It all came as a great surprise to the royal family really, because it had been a secret love affair between Princess Margaret And the Queen Mother really had no idea at the beginning that this was going on under her very nose, because there in Clarence House. He was a controller, the in Clarence House, so it And what the Queen Mother did, which she does on many occasions, is simply turn her back She simply put it out of her mind. I think this is one of her great secrets of her tremendous tranquility, that she doesn't let things bother her. - The Queen Mother has and has always wanted it to be known that she is above reproach. And to have involved herself in a scandal, which it was at that time, which was likely to bring or at least certainly severely if Margaret had married Townsend, I think she wanted to stay as - [Narrator] In 1953, Peter He was now free to But rather than face up to the situation, the Queen Mother avoided Peter Townsend and only to be reunited two years later. But Margaret, crushed by the disapproval of the establishment, The Queen Mother was relieved. - Princess Margaret to marry Peter Townsend at an early stage. She felt it just wasn't right and in the end, of course, they prevailed upon Princess Margaret and she gave him up. - Her sister, the Queen, on her at all. Princess Margaret's actual and I think sense of her royal position, were the factors that decided her. I don't think she wanted and Townsend had no family money. - [Narrator] Very soon the Queen Mother established a pattern for her widowhood, a life Constantly in the public eye, the Queen Mother commented on &quot;It is so distressing for me &quot;that I always photograph so badly.&quot; The new Queen found her was just the strength in her new and difficult role. Once, when the Queen Mother arrived late from Buckingham Palace, she commented, &quot;Please excuse me for being late, &quot;but I've just been up &quot;with my daughter.&quot; In 1959, she visited (moving instrumental music) Although the Queen Mother her daughter would remind her on the death of her husband. &quot;My only wish now is that I may be allowed &quot;to continue the work we Everyone who met the Queen Mother on her royal duties, fell under her spell. She became patron of over 300 and became the Chancellor The Queen Mother is sophisticated, yet she also loves country pursuits. Salmon fishing has been - [Theo] She loved fishing. Fishing was one of her great things, and right up through extreme old age, there she would be standing with of these waders on, fishing. She loved fishing. She loved racing, of course. She's very knowledgeable about racing. So she had all these - [Narrator] The Queen when Margaret, then almost 30, fell in love with society photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones. He was an artistic man, but caused concern in besides being a commoner, to be part of the fast London set. They were married in May 1960. Princess Margaret's was made by her mother's Norman Hartnell, who the Queen Mother wore. - For Princess Margaret's wedding, he made her a wonderful sort of gold dress and the hat was made by Madame Sancerre, who was one of the top milliners in Paris. And Madame Sancerre brought the hat over and Hartnell showed it She sat in front of her dressing table and then he thought, I must mention to her the terrifying price, which I think for the feathers alone which was a lot of money in the 60s. And he looked at the Queen Mother and she looked at herself &quot;Yes, and I think I'll - [Narrator] On that the royal wedding was Everybody wanted the fairytale It was the first royal wedding to be broadcast on television, and the wedding dress caused quite a stir. - Princess Margaret's wedding dress was a triumph of a fashion I mean, it couldn't from her sister's. It wasn't just 13 years in time. It was a whole different era. I mean, Princess Elizabeth's of a period, in a way, the But Princess Margaret's reflected the beginning of the 60s, the beginning of the kind of more confident Britain and the more successful Britain. And she had the courage, it wasn't a very typical They both had the courage to use something totally different. It was innovative, it was courageous, it was absolutely perfect And it was very much away There was no embroidery whatsoever. There wasn't a stitch of embroidery. It was this wonderful double silk organza with a high neck and a deep V at the front going to the tiniest waist in the land. I suspect you'd never find a tinier waist. And all the temptations or frill or clutter were all avoided. It was a very courageous and totally, totally successful design. - [Narrator] As with most royal brides, the crowning glory had to be the tiara. Margaret's was extremely unusual and broke with royal tradition. - Princess Margaret's because it wasn't a piece of jewelry that had sort of been or mother to daughter It was a tiara which at Sotheby's by the royal for those who want to And it was, it is, I'm sure, still a very, very beautiful tiara, totally different from which is quite spiky and quite almost This was delicate and pretty. It was a pretty piece with dangling, wonderful, great diamonds. - [Narrator] The bridegroom They had two children, David and Sarah. Sadly, the Snowden's divorced but the Queen Mother for her son-in-law. - The Queen Mother always adored him, and of course he was fun She likes people with taste. And so much did she like him that when things were going badly, and I think after they were even divorced, Princess Margaret used to get quite cross because her mother went on entertaining (mumbles) as though nothing had happened. - [Narrator] As the young Duchess of York, Elizabeth once said, &quot;I always &quot;It sounds so close and safe and happy.&quot; The Queen Mother treasures pictures of her own family growing up, and a flip through the family album triggers memories of and a reminder of his brothers and sisters who, for nearly a century, have been part of her family circle. Bertie's brother, He was created Duke of Kent when, in 1934, he married Princess Marina daughter of Prince Nicholas of Greece. Tragically he was killed leaving a wife and three children. His oldest son, Edward, was who bore the title Duke of In 1961, aged 25, Edward Duke of Kent became engaged to Miss Katharine Worsley. In the grounds of Kensington Palace, Katharine showed off her engagement ring in preparation for their the first world wedding to be held there since Edward III married She was well-connected to the royal family as her father, Sir William Worsley was the Lord Lieutenant of Yorkshire, an office created by Henry VIII. The ceremony at York Minster rivaled any of the more traditional Katharine's gown was made with a round neck emphasized - The Duke of Kent's in 1961 was a fantastic affair, but it was the first royal wedding to be held in York so it was something of a move away from the traditional But Katharine was a Yorkshire girl and they thought it to hold it in York Minster. And basically their marriage They had to wait a long time to get engaged, and of their marriage with her ill health and her stress problems, it had slightly fallen apart. - [Narrator] The Duke of Kent's sister, Princess Alexandra, was born in 1936. Within three years, World War II began during which her father was killed. On Alexandra's wedding day in 1963, it was her brother, who gave her away. The 26-year-old bride had to Westminster Abbey amidst cheers and greetings from tens who lined the route. The Queen Mother was and other members of the royal family, and the bridesmaids included Princess Margaret's daughter. Princess Anne was a maid of honor. (bells ringing) The bridegroom, Angus Ogilvy, came from one of the with a long and very close association with the British royal family. - Princess Alexandra's was always considered They had their problems. He had a lot of financial problems, but she has stood by some very nice children and by all members of the royal family and they are constant guests at Balmoral and constant guests of the Queen Mother. They're always there. They've done their duty. They're quiet, and they get on with it. - [Narrator] Designer John Cavanaugh used 82 yards of material (soft organ music) From the headdress flowed a magnificent 20-foot-long veil of edged with a wide border of Alencon lace which belonged to Princess The dress had to be gently Dubbed the royal wedding of the year, Alexandra's mother, was accompanied by her relations including King Frederick of Denmark and Queen Federico of Greece. The crowds cheered the new who rode across St. James's Palace in a glass coach lent by the Queen. The bride would be known the Princess Alexandra, the which rather displeased her Angus Ogilvy had to The wedding group posed in the throne room. Alexandra always cheerfully while she and Angus struggled to keep their private life private. They had two children who kept - [Ingrid] One thing they were all very talented, and Princess Alexandra - [Narrator] In 1973, this of St. George's Chapel in Windsor. Alexandra's youngest daughter, Marina, named after her grandmother, didn't always meet with family approval and developed her own sense of style. - Marina Mowatt turned out and broke free of the royal protocol and married someone called Paul Mowatt, who was a photographer. But before she married And then she told the didn't approve of the pregnancy and wanted her to terminate it. It was a very, very unhappy period and she made her parents publicly, and the Queen She's Prince Charles's godchild, and she was totally ostracized. She was actually, Christmas card list. But then in the last 18 She has two children and and she's now back in the royal fold. - [Narrator] Princess Prince Michael, second from the right, was born in 1942, three in the plane crash. In 1978, when Prince Michael was 35, he gave up his right of to marry the woman he loved, Baroness Marie Christine von Riebnitz, who was a Catholic and Marie Christine had her heart but the Vatican said no that his children would be They became the first royal couple, apart from the Duke to be married in a registry office. Five years later, they had in a Roman Catholic ceremony. In 1981, at St. James's Palace in London, their daughter, Lady Gabriella Her older brother is On many occasions Princess Michael has attracted bad publicity. - Princess Michael of Kent has overcome all the problems in her marriage and actually handled it extremely well. She had a lot of blips. For a start, she felt the because she was a Catholic and divorced. Then she got involved in various scandals. Her father was accused of being a Nazi. She had a very bad time, but when you look at their marriage it seems to be very successful and they have two beautiful children. And I think Princess deeply in favor with the Queen. She gets on with her life, and does it without a fuss. - [Narrator] The Queen was Henry Duke of Gloucester born in 1900, the same year as Elizabeth. In 1935, he married Lady daughter of the Duke of Buccleuch. They had two sons, William and Richard. William, their eldest, was a daredevil. In 1972, he was tragically when his plane crashed and exploded. He was 31 years old. A month before Williams's death, his brother, Richard, the daughter of a Danish lawyer. Their wedding day in July Accompanied by her father, the couple were married close to the family home Richard met his bride at a tea party on his second day at Cambridge University where he was studying architecture. She was working at the and they went on to have three children, Alexander, Davina, and Rose. Among the wedding guests and the Queen Mother, who as Richard's mother, By royal standards, the - The only unusual thing was it was very low-key, and they had no bridesmaids, no pages and no press, which must have Princess Alice and the Queen Mother are only 18 months apart in age, but whereas the Queen Mother poor Princess Alice is really confined to her apartment in Kensington Palace. She wanders round the garden, She was incredibly active but the move from Balmoral Manor where she lived most of her married life sort of spiraled her down, and she leads a very quiet life now. - [Narrator] Meanwhile, the lived in grand style They eventually made their on the fashionable Avenue Foch close to the Bois de Boulogne. They wrote their memoirs on rare visits to Britain where they were still by the royal family. In May 1972, the Duke of Windsor died. He was 77. (soft music) In death he returned to the royal family. But nothing could reverse the fact that he had been Only 18 months had separated him in age from his younger brother, but he outlived Bertie by 20 years. He was buried in royal ground at Frogmore near Windsor Castle, Some blame the Queen Mother for the long rift between - I think she certainly had a certain amount of influence in keeping the Duke of She mistakenly believed would attract people and less popular than he was in comparison, seemingly dull and that sort of thing. I think she miscalculated. - [Narrator] In November 1973, Princess Anne was married Her wedding dress, made by Maureen Baker, was a heavy white silk outlined with pearls and silver thread. In 1923, her grandmother to Westminster Abbey, and 50 years later she lent her granddaughter for her special day. Princess Anne married an army officer and a show jumper, but sadly their marriage ended Her grandmother's tiara was the same tiara that her mother had worn - The tiara that Princess Elizabeth wore is known as the Hanoverian tiara, and it was, in fact, for Queen Victoria. It was made of old diamonds and it was creating this wonderful quite spiky tiara, quite high, which can also be worn as a necklace interestingly enough. The royal family are very, very, very good with their jewelry. They can be worn for Anyway, Queen Victoria had it made in 1830 and left it to the crown. And Queen Mary wore it. There are pictures of And then Princess Elizabeth wore it for her wedding because it Queen Elizabeth. - Queen Mother's principle And you have to remember that She was brought up in that era when pearls were the most important and for any ladies of style and society. And she's remained true to that wonderful, formal and traditional look. She still wears the most - [Narrator] The Queen and no appearance is achieved without great attention to detail. - Touching here, it's too full. Touching here, something Here, the neckline. And then the the fitter will suggest, perhaps, ma'am, if we alter it, we make the neckline a little Yes, I think that would be very nice. And touching the hat And all the little bits and pieces and the little band that goes underneath, you don't get complaints but you know that if it isn't, you just keep on doing - She was a fashion that people like, the and the hats with the ostrich feather and the soft turquoise you know, with this sort of To say that she was a fashion would be, of course, not true. - Wilt thou love her, comfort her, honor and keep her in and forsaking all others-- - [Narrator] Prince was closely observed by his grandmother, after she had watched the grow up on the Sandringham Estate. The rest is history. (crowd cheering) (lively music) 11 months after their wedding, the 20-year-old Diana gave Prince William. He was christened at Buckingham Palace. (baby crying) On former royal occasions, and Princess Diana made a pretty picture, but behind these images did not approve of - Diana turned out to be than what they thought. They thought that kind of county girl would fit in the royal family very well. But as Diana developed in this rather unpredictable then the Queen Mother turned against her, thought she wasn't really behaving in the kind of right royal way at all. So by the end of Diana's life, they certainly resented her. They hated all this kind in public that both Diana and Charles did. The Queen Mother belongs to a generation that feels the royal family should keep their secrets secret, and simply present a kind of united and smiling facade to the public, which neither Diana or were really prepared to do. - [Narrator] The Queen Mother is very fond of her eldest grandson. Many of Prince Charles's spring from his grandmother. She was influential in She knew Lady Diana Spencer through her family's Diana had grown up in her father's care, but no one knew how much had affected her. Diana's mother, Mrs. Shand Kydd, had lost custody of her children through the testimony of a longtime friend and Any misgivings which she may have had about her granddaughter's suitability as a bride for Prince Duty to the royal family to Lady Ruth Fermoy. Photographed regularly on her royal duties, she The marriage was quietly promoted by the Queen Mother. - I do know that the Queen well, you're not to mess her about, and if you don't grab 'cause she's so attractive. She certainly said that. But I rather was told, but again, how far can you believe people, that Lady Fermoy really didn't But then again, you see, you have to understand how courtships are. They don't tell the boss anything the boss might not want to hear. So however much she may oh God, oh God, I don't think she went along and said to the royal family, listen, I'm not sure this I'm sure she didn't. - [Narrator] Ruth Fermoy against her granddaughter. The Queen Mother's presence in 1993 was the final who had put royalty before her own family, but had let down both her Perhaps influenced by Lady Fermoy, the Queen Mother came to see Diana as frivolous with little sense of duty. Diana considered the Queen Mother as the source of negative comment. - I don't think that there there between the Queen Mother And of course, as things the Queen Mother was always took his side. - When the marriage with obviously the Queen Mother's affections remained with Prince Charles, and she became angry with Diana because she saw that the with the monarchy, which is something that the Queen Mother's - [Narrator] Diana and the Queen Mother often had to meet in public. On these occasions, they and growing coolness between them. - Diana decided to do her own thing. The Queen Mother could how Diana could do it And of course, the more Diana did and the more Diana got away with it, the bigger the breach And it was never going to be resolved, and in the end it's my belief that Diana absolutely perhaps unfairly, perhaps unfortunately, but it's true that was the case. - [Narrator] Balmoral was used to conceal Prince Charles's affair At Birkhall, the Queen Mother's house on the Scottish royal estate, he frequently entertained - I don't think we'll ever know whether the Queen Mother relationship with because she would see it being trouble. And also I don't think his personal relationship with his grandmother However much he loves her, he's not going to want to burden her with his intimate problems. But of course, the Queen but I don't think she to be encouraging the relationship as long as Diana was alive. - The Queen Mother had a most of them courtiers, but occasionally people who And possibly the closest of all those was Derrick Parker-Bowles finally married Camilla Parker-Bowles. And I think that the Queen because of her close saw that one of us was with the Prince of Wales. When it came down to it, when Prince Charles needed Birkhall, the Queen was made available, Because Prince Charles he knows everything about keeping in touch with the Queen Mother, letting and has always dedicated And in return, the Queen the secret nature of this and the adulteress, Mrs. Parker-Bowles, was quite prepared to smile on it and lend her house to them. - [Narrator] Recovering from Elizabeth bought a castle. - The Queen Mother actually the Castle of Mey, right She bought that after She saw this derelict castle and she said, I'm having it, and it became a symbol of her restoration to life, really, because she was bereft after he died. She wrote to Edith Sitwell, the poet, and said that her heart had shriveled. And she saw this ruined castle and then she restored it and she spends the late - [Narrator] Every year the Queen, on her way to Balmoral, has stopped to say hello to her mother on holiday at the Castle of Mey. - The Queen Mother is of the party wherever she is, and she just makes things go. She likes to have people and when she's racing, her She's planned with her basic manager all the mating of her so I think she intends to - [Narrator] The Queen is legendary, and an is foremost in her social calendar. She's national Hunt Racing's This very expensive hobby has given rise to questions about where to support her racing habits. - King George VI didn't pay income tax. Somehow the monarchy arranged that they wouldn't pay income tax, so of course this vast fortune and they owned a lot of all this untaxed money simply built up. And of course, they had the so really a great fortune was built up. And she, having always had never learned to economize. She simply spent, and spent, and spent. She loves clothes, she loves jewelry, she loves luxurious kind of life. She spends money on the races. She's got her own racehorses. She's never really wanted for anything, and I think she's always thought, well, why should she? All this money is there, In the end, she has I believe something like a four - The Queen Mother has an It's there and it's there to be spent, and life is to be lived and money helps. She doesn't concern herself with money. The Queen lobs her the odd I mean, I think she rather despairs of the Queen Mother's extravagance. Not another new dress, Mummy. And the Queen Mother would say, well, I have to dress - [Narrator] The Queen Mother's father, the Earl of Strathmore, inherited a quarter of a million pounds, a multi-millionaire by today's standards. Once a rich woman with a royal fortune, she is now reported to be heavily in debt. - Well, she has inherited but much more so from her who died back in 1952. And at that time, the a very wealthy woman in her own right, but since then her lifestyle has been very, very extravagant and that's really, it seems, eaten into her fortune. Five years ago the Queen in trust for mostly her and a good deal of that is to go to Princes William and 4.9 million when they're 21 and another eight million to be shared between them when they're 40. So the reason why she may is because it's being shunted to one side to avoid inheritance tax. - I do think that the royal family, who have to pick up the bills after all for the Queen Mother, do slightly worry that she keeps on the the Castle of Mey, north of And she only visits it from time to time, but in order to be able to make sure that the woodwork doesn't contract or that nasty damn stains appear anywhere, she will keep that central heating on and the bills are colossal. - [Narrator] On a trip to Venice in 1984, the Queen mother found her gondola ride, &quot;Magnifico, magnifico!&quot; For her it was the fulfillment to revisit the glorious city, and to indulge yet again in one of her favorite - She loves clothes, she She's excited about new clothes. Still, it doesn't matter if there's a new blue coat, and how wonderful that is. - [Narrator] Her most her hats, gradually evolved to become the gracious and unmistakable image of her years as Queen Mother. - She grew up at a time when You wore a hat as a little You always wore a hat. You weren't dressed outside No matter how ornate, her hat may be, she will always, even if it has a big brim it will always be turned I mean, feminine is the key to everything. - Good guess! - [Narrator] The Queen is Clarence House, a modest but is it big enough to - All her clothes, which are beautifully kept all on rail, was sort of in her dressing I gather they've spilled out all along corridors and everything else. She will not throw anything away. - Clarence House, where just off the Mall, is modern, impressionist, I think some classic And it has a wonderful, very much a home. Lots of photographs, lots of mementos, a reflection of a hundred years. She loves to entertain, loves to have people with her, loves to eat in the open air. And they set out the table in the garden of Clarence House in what she calls, &quot;my green rooms under the trees.&quot; And the table is laid with the most wonderful china and glass. - I think the the Queen Mother is wonderfully extravagant. She's living in a different age. She is an Edwardian and she She has more servants of the royal family. She invites people to and says, we'll have a little picnic. And you will go out on the lawns and there will be an array of silver and gold plate on the table. There will be footmen behind every chair, and you will be served the And that, to her, is a picnic. - [Narrator] Outside Clarence House, the Queen Mother is She's surrounded by four a moment, perhaps, for and to reflect on her - The Queen Mother is of a different era, and I think she finds that so many of her grandchildren have had unhappy marriages this is my duty, I'm Instead they said, I'm And that is not the way so I think she finds it But once again, there's so she just lets it glide over her. - [Narrator] The Queen for longer than she was a wife, but she's created for herself exactly the kind of life Bertie She openly admits that as she grows older is that By dedicating herself her family and friends, As a major power behind the throne, the Queen Mother is why Great Britain still has a monarchy. - I think the Queen of the royal family throughout She's the continuity. She's always there. As long as most people can remember, she's been there smiling and waving. And the older generation will and they will remember As long as she is alive, that don't change within the royal family, because she doesn't dislike change but she doesn't like the And I think that after her death, there will be a lot of that the Queen has preferred to wait and as long as Mummy's alive, - [Narrator] Queen this has been your life and your century. (moving instrumental music) (vocalizing)