This is one of the most isolated supermarkets After all, it's in Hawaii which, despite its most definitions, the most remote major population and archipelagos and atolls, but nowhere on earth people farther from the next nearest concentration York, as far from Anchorage as Norway, as far the California coast, there's truly nothing--no any size save for the few just off the coast of flight from Hawaii is to a tiny atoll known as and that's an anomaly. The next nearest four and half hours away, but it's not until population comes even close to that of Hawaii. grocery store looks, considering where it is. yet look inside and the shelves are stocked this was, say, a Safeway in Seattle. And Even these bananas originate from exactly US--they've traveled from Ecuador so quickly, in one looks at the prices of perishables--$10 for a what would be the expectation on the mainland. supply chain to the extent that differences tough to come by. Dueling chicken retailers recently expanded to the state--both of which have no built-up international supply chains. expand to Hawaii--it is an untapped market, sure, make it worth it for either to develop a brand-new open a couple dozen additional locations. So these isolated islands are so logistically linked to expand there as anywhere in the US. offers a near-seamless experience and other businesses operating in the state. But Much of its uniqueness stems from one American with little exception, only ships registered Americans can transport goods between US ports. marine and shipbuilding industries, partially to needed for a large-scale war abroad, but these the vast majority of ocean-going container ships and labor policies like Panama or Liberia and countries like the Philippines or India. What often ends up with exploitative labor practices, and other undesired externalities, but the fraction of those of US ships. In fact, the cost estimated between three to six times the norm. exist, they could never be competitive, if not for container ships in the entire world is just 23, of two companies: Matson and Pasha Hawaii. majority of inbound shipping capacity to Hawaii, the Jones Act. That's because, even beyond the shipping companies, there's great asymmetry of the average cost to ship a 40-foot container from shipping the same container on the same route in That's all down to supply and demand--North does from North America, so ships typically instance of westbound demand across the Pacific, shipping companies would likely add it as off cargo on the typically-unprofitable leg. the services, charging far, far more to their services do differ slightly from largely since, normally, container shipping is cargo ships operate at an average speed of just 15 20. This is since ocean shipping companies compete is more fuel efficient. Hawaii ships, meanwhile, transport goods to the state in just three or four since they need to fit into the typical window distribution centers to stores. These bananas from Dole's dedicated container ship, the Dole Pacific, they might otherwise spend a few days getting say, Salt Lake City, wait around for a day, then the route to Hawaii is not necessarily that day or two to get up to Matson's terminal in Coast ports like Long Beach and Oakland are major to them is well within normal timeframes for Jones-act compliant operators have to pay high costs, so they do what they can to reduce cost they'll return to the west coast at that the Pasha George II left Long Beach on Wednesday in Honolulu four days later on Sunday. Following but only sailed at about 15 knots and didn't get a week later. Hawaii doesn't export much these this slower speed is fine. As another technique, capture eastbound demand and therefore maximize is an American territory, and although it has population and more international imports from plenty from the mainland. But after calling to the US, they go on to the Japanese island of to the massive US-military presence there--before busiest container port, they've built a small services. While most container traffic is not very clearly some. For much of recent history Matson are comparatively small. Shanghai naturally is used by competitors couldn't load to full capacity stop to load fully before continuing on to North its port, making this less so the case, but times from their smaller vessel size, full 20-knot operate their own dedicated terminals at ports avoid the kind of port congestion that reached reached such astronomical heights during COVID could briefly meaningfully compete, especially away from Hawaii to expand service from Asia. as their Asia service are increasingly crucial for for much of its history, Matson enjoyed a services, and Pasha Hawaii's challenge pushed prices down and introduced genuine But monopolies still exist in Hawaiian logistics. continental US first arrives here, at the port Kauai, Maui, and the Big Island, plus a few other Honolulu, one must hire a barge, and there's one, between the islands--Young Brothers. Now, Matson its containers that originated in the mainland carrier that is currently allowed by the state islands exclusively is Young Brothers. The logic Hawaii can therefore require Young Brothers to Lanai and Molokai. And the state also regulates still an eye-popping sum. Transporting a loaded which typically takes about a day, costs currently charging to transport the same it's not like there are other Jones-act compliant service at moment's notice, and the state knows and said the rates they were allowed to charge the state had essentially no option but to agree only way of getting goods between the islands. the company, that Young Brothers has gotten cost to the consumers and therefore has little So when you combine the geography of isolation competition, one ends up with dramatically higher prices of the Whole Foods supermarket in Long much of Hawaii's goods originate--and that of the for certain shelf-stable goods--a bottle of olive But consistently, the fresher something is, the beef goes from $6.99 to $8.99. Cabbage from $1.49 A pack of eggs from $3.69 to $5.99. 95% of its food--there is next-to-zero in-state one of two shipping carriers from the mainland, There certainly are edge cases--a small portion imports from abroad--but in sum, there's system with uniquely, artificially high costs. to recognize that the downsides go beyond just container cargo gets unloaded here, at the port commercial port in the state that has the cranes cargo ships used by Matson and Pasha Hawaii. Those and unloading smaller barges. So there's a single goods into the islands, and it's on the coast. hurricanes. Either of these disasters could and even if they didn't, the ports are well within the surrounding infrastructure--like the roads be flooded and damaged for an extended period. a large portable crane capable of unloading Harbor--the military base which is earmarked of Honolulu becoming inoperable. But estimates 15-20% of normal cargo inflows, and as the recent disruption to port operations can last months. could provide a backstop for necessities but the concentration of infrastructure in the or disrupted, it could take quite a while But it doesn't have to be this way--in fact, it islands over from Pearl Harbor, along Maui's dry and bumping up against the manicured landscape Oceanfront Condo is what visitors describe as a which one can see small fish and turtles up close. this is not just a convenience for tourists but a ancient Hawaii fed itself for centuries before before the advent of modern container ships. that dotted the Hawaiian islands at the time the last vestiges of an intricate aquaculture Now there's two major natural particularities as a rugged volcanic outcropping, the islands the larger islands ranging from a few thousand above sea level. Second, they don't receive north and east sides receive feet upon feet of measure their precipitation in inches. Faced with Hawaiian agriculture took shape around holistic Following streams gushing out from the strategically dam or divert sections to flood dietary staple. The growing taro, in turn, would and silver perch--providing yet more food and would then flow into lower freshwater ponds where spawn. In turn, these nutrient-rich waters would connected by canals and separated by gates fish in without letting bigger fish escape. With and with only the strength of a human workforce, animal husbandry and traditional agriculture, Of course it goes without saying that such a different property ownership regime, a subsistence and a feudal organization of labor that's long much in the way of technology, and with the sustainably produce food for a population that's inhabitants at the time of Western contact. system left today. The arrival of Europeans and while western interpretations of land use and Mahele, a legal transition of land ownership Not far from Kihei, in the city of Lahaina, now a city rebuilding after unprecedented of these historically central ponds sat under an so far down the road, standing 225 feet in the the pond's destruction. While the Jones Act may sugarcane and pineapples that begins to explain For a concentrated few, the proliferation of Gold Rush then the American Civil War, and the land in the mid-1800s proved a bonafide bonanza. and maximum exploitation, the rich arable Hawaiian producers as the only agriculture diversity cane or pineapples. Peaking in the 1950s, the for more than a century. Effectively turning a crop exporter. But with statehood came increased came increased accessibility--suddenly Hawaii far away, but now a tropical destination that laws and higher wages, increased competition for monocropping slowly ceded economic centrality and an increasing visitor count, Hawaii now century of relentless exporting, could produce began to infill shuddering plantation lands, the importing. With beef imports, fruit imports, and the islands went from producing somewhere around This rather new system has started to have some crisis is severe--it is the most expensive state to from all of it--the housing market is perhaps with an $840,000 median home price which, of Estimates suggest that 44% of households in the bare-bones of necessities. After all, much of jobs relating to the tourism industry. So in of those who've inhabited the islands for a en masse. In fact, for the first time, the 2020 now live not in Hawaii, but on the mainland. recognition that the way Hawaii feeds itself in Honolulu has started to put a concerted effort least moving in that direction. And the timing is in the 90s, and since has transformed into agriculture giant, finished its operations in the that of Maui, closed in 2016. So that plantation land now empty and available, Maui's former sugar plantation, for example, Pono which has converted the fields into bananas, onions, and more--a diversified rather to be inserted directly into the Hawaiian Costco, Safeway, and other retailers that And this fits into a concerted cross-government But it's really too early to tell whether this is and local food production also isn't, in and presented by the state's current situation. so in many cases the cost of locally-grown goods in transportation costs is counterbalanced with start--incremental progress towards reversing really quite rare for a country to hold land but most countries' land is contiguous. It's as a territory--existing as some separated class rather as a fully integrated component of the among those--Reunion, the Canary Islands, and unprecedented for land so far from the country's economically, and socially--with the rest of it. isn't natural--it's a uniquely American thing of islands so far away. In some ways this has chains and big box retailers. But in actuality, was conquered. There was equilibrium, Hawaii was a broke that tenuous balance. Decades upon decades and today the state's in an unsustainable much compared to the wages earned in the state. local food production will take ages to induce now recognizes the problem. The Hawaiian Kingdom As far as American states go, Hawaii is just about a fair and accurate script about. With a long, longer history as independent culture and society and understanding current trends and news events and thus replicating, biases on how the rest Hawaiian current events proved time consuming. It rely on clicks to turn advertising revenue present highly partisan ways. But there is a way to Ground News, the sponsor for this video. By Ground News it becomes clear that the centrist covering the tragedy, the state's response to the while the right has been practically silent on between left and right, Ground News identifies favorite features on the platform. With "blind any representation in left or right leaning news are in their own blindspots--something that otherwise wouldn't be surfaced in my own media as bias ratings, factuality ratings, and Ground News has helped me identify the limitations helping me find sources for videos like this comfortably cut through the misinformation and go to ground.news/wendover or follow the link in and save 40% on your subscription--you'll become support an independent news platform focused on