The Tajapuru River Jesse, aged 14, and Lisette, 11, This is not a game, it's work. They're not the only ones Other kids catch a ride Take care, careful, Get up. Get on in front. Just below them, the ferry's propeller. Push there, this way, come on. Put the rope this side, the swell's too strong, I'm not going to let it go under. Risking death just to make a few pennies -How much for the palm sweets? Are they any good? I brought them up upriver. They're not rotten, are they? No, they're good, This sort of commerce is unique Here the Tajapuru is at its narrowest It's the best place About a dozen canoes have fastened The ship's captain maintains speed, -Palm sweets. That's two reais. Well, ships this size, They're huge and they move very quickly, but it's how we earn our daily bread, [Portuguese spoken audio] Jesse and his friends they make their livings from, Give me something to eat. On board the Bom Jesus, there's always some food [Portuguese spoken audio] Sometimes there are accidents, we try and help them out. Keep an eye out for them, Some of the kids who climbed Something that worries Captain Santos. [Portuguese spoken audio] I keep a list of all the children's names. There seems to be more There are so many now, especially little ones I let the authorities know about them Especially at night, I tell them not to do it at night, Under Brazilian law, in case of accidents. Hey, be careful, [Portuguese spoken audio] Tie it up, that's it, [Portuguese spoken audio] It's very dangerous, It's treacherous. It's scary, I'm usually in a cold sweat. I'm big enough to work on my own now. [Portuguese spoken audio] I lost one pot of palm sweets, He can neither read nor write, Seven reais, about $3,5, a small contribution Jesse's the youngest of 12 children. His mother, Benedicta, who's almost 60, Jesse lived in this house It's a life that revolves entirely [Portuguese spoken audio] My husband's too old to work now. Sometimes we get up in the morning and there's nothing We hope there'll be something It's just the way it is out here, sometimes we don't. [Portuguese spoken audio] It's a large family, The kids could swim [Portuguese spoken audio] Jesse's grandfather at the turn of the last century during the rubber boom and later during the expansion In the Amazonian basin, for virtually everything. This ship from New Zealand has come to pick up The waterways are a constant ebb These barges bus, train and tram all rolled into one. The hardest ships to get onto though, Fifteen hundred tons of iron and steel, Jesse knows the safest place far from the dangerous eddies At the back, the last canoe is in trouble, The father paddles furiously as his son desperately tries In the end, they dive out The most important thing It's my son's fault. He wasn't listening to me as quickly as he should have. [Portuguese spoken audio] I've only been doing this Before, I was in the timber business [Portuguese spoken audio] I could make about $10 or $15 a day Do you make more now with your canoe? Yes, I earn something every day. At least not like before I've lost all the money I had, about $10. -Have you eaten today? The money I had for shopping [Portuguese spoken audio] Manuel Fernandez, his son, hope the next day will be better On his boat, however, -Give me a dozen. [Portuguese spoken audio] I've got bananas, icupi's, Some passengers, despite being fully aware still try and haggle over the price. -Hey, there's only six bananas. Eight bananas. Give me a few more. No, that's it now. You wouldn't catch me doing that, If they fall, they'd die. They'll be sucked It's their work, They go up and down the river to Belem. [Portuguese spoken audio] It's part of the river trade. The river trade Jesse's been doing In all, he's only ever It's an hour away by canoe. [Portuguese spoken audio] There aren't enough canoes around here, that's what the grown-ups say. That's why the kids don't come to school. Other kids have to work the boats in order to make enough so they don't have time to go to school. [Portuguese spoken audio] You should go to school every day. If you only go once or twice a week, May as well not go at all. Listen, studying is important, [Portuguese spoken audio] You're already good at getting onto boats, so if you knew how to read and write, I'm ashamed that at my age I don't even know how [Portuguese spoken audio] Instead, Jesse's school His teacher, his elder brother, Toninho, My dad taught me how to make cartridges, I never wanted to live in town, we go when we need to but I'm happy here. I've had some work offers in town, [Portuguese spoken audio] Here, you're free Life's fairly calm here, I think it's important I learn How to build a boat, clear the jungle and work like that. Jesse's family has always preferred life living off the river trade and hunting. He got him right in the head, [Portuguese spoken audio] It's a poisonous snake. It's the kind of snake and if you're bitten, you'll die. [Portuguese spoken audio] It's over there somewhere, look, [Portuguese spoken audio] Sloths fetch up to $15, This one, however, is too young I've seen lots smoking drugs or sniffing glue. They hang around Sometimes the police arrest them, I've got a mom and dad. God keeps me on the right path. On the ferry, Jesse watches sail how many who have come in the heart of the Amazon forests. This elderly man is Ulysses, and he's happy to tell anyone about a treasure hidden I've heard that along the river Juma, A real El Dorado I heard so much about it, The story spread rapidly all of which led to the biggest gold rush To get there, thousands of miners that head deep into the jungle. It's a dangerous journey. I got real sick down there, I think it was malaria. In the end, I had to give up, To find this Eldorado, and heading upriver along the Amazon Twenty thousand people live in Apiai, a town built up around a few paved roads Three months ago, but then gold was found in the jungle Since then, at least 10,000 prospectors on their way to Eldorado. Two of the latest newcomers They've left behind wives and children to travel the 2,000 kilometers Our hope is to strike gold, [Portuguese spoken audio] We've left our families back home in order to feed our children. [Portuguese spoken audio] To finance their gold fever, have sold up All they've left their families Ten days into their journey which may make renting a 4-wheel drive for the final leg If we strike it lucky quickly, If it takes longer, it takes longer. We've put what money and we've left our families with nothing. I've no experience I just trust in my courage, Looking for gold is a real adventure, We're risking everything, At the end of the track, but the journey still isn't over. This elbow of water juts into the jungle. It's the river Juma To go any further, you need to pay. The ticket to a dream We're nervous Our families must be worried about us because we have no means They know nothing For that matter, neither do we. After about 20 kilometers, through the dense jungle. Here finally is the Eldorado To the adventurers, Makeshift huts, plastic bags as roofs. About 3,000 or 4,000 people live here. It's a small town that sprung up, complete with bistros, and even a dentist. Generators provide power and it's even possible The bingo is about to start, Buy your cards right now, friends. The minimum wager Here the currency is literally gold dust. No effort is spared doesn't remain Amerigo and Juze are a little lost, There's even a large food store for about double its normal price. The owner, Mercedes, and she's making the most out of it. Jams, thermos flasks, drinks, Sweets sell well, too. Coffee, soups, noodles I've been in the business for a long time. It's in my blood, I love selling stuff. Here it's in gold Which is how Mercedes by buying up the miners gold for cash almost $20 a gram, which she later sells Amerigo and Juze stick it out. Eldorado seems to hold its promise, including for the new arrivals, and there's no time to lose. They head for the main scene, some three kilometers The whole forest seems with huts and holes scattered everywhere. Just three months ago, this gentle river Today, it's a battleground as the prospectors sift Colleagues pan the dirt in the hope Blinded to danger some risk being swallowed I've been digging for six days, So far we haven't found much gold, but we're hopeful it's there somewhere [Portuguese spoken audio] The scenes around them shake Juze My first impression is that An impression that's soon confirmed, as they're repeatedly told I'm sorry to have come all this way, We managed to find some work, but it's just two grams That's barely enough to get by on. I'm still hopeful, I've got my faith. If God grants us our health, To survive in this jungle, Food is twice At almost $4, this meal might be In the restaurant, that sparked the gold rush across Brazil. [Portuguese spoken audio] Amerigo and Juze were by the pictures of bucketfuls of gold [Portuguese spoken audio] It's a crime what they did, These reports are misleading. One guy out here told me because he was sure Hey, you've just arrived, We've just got here. We really need to find work Not even to buy food. I've been out here for two weeks now, I've asked around everywhere, [Portuguese spoken audio] We haven't even got enough money We're going to have Scraping together enough just to leave She survives Kashasha, buy my Kashasha, help me out, brother. Don't you have any money to buy anything? It took Maria just a couple of days I pawned my wedding ring for about $35 Thirty five dollars, and now I'm killing to get my ring back and buy a ticket home. Maria was one of the thousands into believing they'd get rich quick Now she says, it's only the TV that of a river gushing gold. Everyone in Brazil but, in fact, there's hardly any. I haven't seen a single gram not one. Yet there are some who more Most are at the far top end It's an area the prospectors the rich scene. It's where the most gold has been found. Twelve people share the production rates. They've created a cooperative Luciana is one of the 12 owners. A nanny back home She's become a respected businesswoman. We dug up this part of the mountain In there that's where the gold was. Here's the next step. You have to turn the earth, to make a kind of liquidy paste, which is important before washing That happens in this machine. The gold remains here in the sieve because it's heavier [Portuguese spoken audio] This method means Luciana's workers that remains hidden The only way to recover is to stop the machine a privilege shared only by the owners. Luciana is unwilling I can't give you exact figures You never know how much gold you'll find. Sometimes it's ten grams, Luciana has been indiscreet, Hi, neighbor. They'd like to know all about it, but you have to be careful This is what you should say. There's hardly any gold here but we're hoping How many grams did you get today? I don't know yet, Well, tell them That's what you make. [Portuguese spoken audio] Luciana has admitted to finding Her neighbor but when asked, On average about half a gram, I'd say. -Half a gram? We get buckets full of gold here. Don't say that. Well, in some places we do. Listen, the truth is We try to earn enough We've got families, kids and wives. That's about as much It's obvious some make a decent living while the vast majority For those who do find the odd gram, the night gives rise In the camp's bars, a good day's work Improvised casinos are set up whether you keep your pay or not. As always, it's the bank For those who can afford them, In this ambience, Ze capeta, literally, Joe the devil. It's a name to be respected, if not feared because Joe the devil He lays claim to being the sole owner He may look harmless, but make no mistake, Each prospector an unwritten rule he knows how to enforce. Those who know the rules is not up for discussion. Unfortunately, there were a few Nowadays, there are no more problems and everyone pays their cut without fuss and Joe, the devil, I've made about four kilos of gold so far, but if you believe what some say, What I read in the press They claim I get such I have to admit, I'm doing well. I could buy a small house for my family, something which [Portuguese spoken audio] The four kilos is nevertheless worth nearly $80,000. For Juze and Amerigo, that amount Their last banknotes spent, and made their way back to the riverbank If we had the money, we'd have left by now but we don't, It's a nightmare. Everything we dreamed about, We were hard up before, Amerigo and Juze aren't even close Like many before them, it'll probably take them weeks Back on the Tajapuru River a short distance from Jessie's house, Most of them are kids, They're too small to get To attract their attention, they shout. That's for the kids down there, It's for the little canoes over there, You're throwing them some food? No, just clothes but sometimes I prepare the snacks Further down, the young river traders Okay, give me some shrimps. About a dozen canoes but oddly, Jessie is absent. It's unlike him to miss the opportunity Something's changed on the river. The ferry still allow but the crewman on the merchant ships These kids will soon find out On the barge, they're not welcome. No chance of selling anything here. For some of the crew, One man even threatens Are you chicken? Do you see how he cut the rope? He was scared of us that guy up there. It happens a lot. They don't want us but we do it anyway. We're not scared of them. They might insult us, I feel like smashing them with my paddle. They're scared of thieves. They think we're going Sometimes they even pull guns on us We tell them, all right, go ahead, shoot. Then we wave our machetes at them They're scared. The crews, however, Over recent months, incidents Bandits who hold up the merchant boats use the same type of canoes Everyone is on edge. No one's allowed on board Night time on this river is dangerous. There have been a lot of hold ups. We can't be sure who's I've had friends who've been robbed on this stretch of the river. Some people have even been killed. God is our only protection. We're scared but we've got to work. On the banks of the Tajapuru, The youngster was shot by the captain of a river barge. For Jesse had turned to crime he was killed JeClaudio, one of Jesse's older brothers, but could do nothing to save his brother. He was fastening his canoe and then he climbed on board At first, I thought and I told him to shut up, but he insisted that he'd been shot. The bullet hit him in the throat, but I couldn't see the wound He ran and then jumped into the water. When he surfaced, the guy on the boat His family knew Benedicta, his mother, God had warned us It was a prophecy, and I trust in the word of our Lord so I am resigned to it. Thanks to God I have the strength. Sometimes I stand in the doorway Then I pray to Jesus that tie up alongside the boats. May God prevent what happened to my boy Everyone on the river The youngsters have made a habit in the riverside cemetery. Mizael, 13, was Jesse's favorite nephew. He's taken over now, and his cousin Claudio, both aged 12. He was always good to us. He used to give us a few coins He taught me how to tie up I went in the canoe with him, he taught me how along the hulls of the ships, and I slowly learnt how to do it. He taught me as well. He used to buy stuff for me, He was my favourite uncle. Despite the incident, For the children of the Rio, The best selling item that's only found and which is much in demand Mizael, Claudio and Simiel but it's a dangerous harvest. The fruit is found only often more than 30 meters above ground. Four ingas sell for one real, It sells really well They cost us nothing, It's one of the gifts from God. They're for us to pick and sell The Manaus ferry is on time. The kids have to rush With each passing minute, Wow, you're strong. Now, this is better These are the real things. In half an hour, Only seven reais, not eight. My brothers made some money too. The kids have followed the ferry To avoid paddling all the way back, Mizael and the others hitch a ride The crew knows the kids and they're free to ride along which saves them four hours of paddling. We've caught an armadillo. The armadillo is a welcome surprise. Mizael hadn't spotted one It must weigh about ten kilograms. When it's boiled, all this dark part It'll go in the pot It's a rare treat for the kids because meat of any sort They enjoyed the hunt. They managed to kill an armadillo [Portuguese spoken audio] There's more than enough even though there's 11 of us. There's a lot of meat We'll give some to our cousins, The next day, Overexcited by the hunt, the kids have no intention [Portuguese spoken audio] What I hope for, for my kids, and no longer have to work the boats. They spend all the day on the river I really want them [Portuguese spoken audio] I don't want to rob the barges There's no point. When I grow up There, there's decent pay every month, and it's honest work. [Portuguese spoken audio] Me, when I've got my own family, just like Zidane, and score lots of goals. I'll be the best Me too, I want to work when I'm big, I'll be captain, and I'll get married.