- So I made a horrible mistake. (phone message) Hey cutie. Oh, Hey, what's up? How have you been? (winking sound effect) (In the Hall of the Mountain King playing) - I just wanna stop by, say (Super Mario coin sound effect) - Huh. (slam sound effect) (phone message) (sigh) Hey sexy. - Hey, what's up? Are you okay? It's late. - Don't forget about me. (Super Mario coin sound effect) - Sigh. (laughs) (phone messages) - Oh God, not this again. - What? - Dude, Anna keeps sending me that are vague and they're And then when I actually he stops responding. - Oh girl - What? - You're being piggy banked. - The hell is that? - Ignore the definition because that's definitely - Oh God, Ow, Ew, that's unsanitary. - Yeah. Okay. That's why I said not to do that. Piggy banking is when a in with a text here or an Insta comment there, to It's like he's slowly dropping coins into your emotional piggy bank for sex for a rainy day. - That's ridiculous. The only emotion he's - What he say? Hey sexy. Hey. - No, you gotta stop. - Stop what, winky face. - Tell him he's piggy banking you. - You're piggy banking me. - Whoa, Melissa. I would never insert a nickel into your, Oh my God, that's unsanitary. - No not that, I'm talking about when you send me text and then put me on the back burner in case you wanna hook up. - Yeah, so? Just don't respond. - It's wrong! - What are you talking about Michelle? You're the one I learned - What? (phone message) - Oh, it's Michelle. - How you doing big boy? - Oh, hi girl, how you doing? - Shh. - Oh, okay. I thought you wanna but that's chill. - No, I don't wanna talk to you. I just want you as an option. - Oh, well you don't have to like emotionally Anytime you wanna hook up you can just hit your boy up and... - You're funny. (Super Mario coin sound effect) - Wait, I can, I can hook up now! - You're horrible. You're a horrible, horrible piggy banker. - Oh, come on, women can't piggy bank. - Actually, Michelle you're piggy banking really hurt my feelings. You kept hitting me up with the intent to hook up, And I kept thinking, am I not good enough? Not hot enough. Not, smart enough. Why does she keep leading me on, If she's not going to It really messed me up. - Oh, wow. I'm so sorry. I didn't know. - And Melissa, I'm so sorry. I was going to use Michelle's If I don't have any interest in maintaining an actual connection I shouldn't fake one just - Thank you. - This is goodbye, ladies. Stay sexy. (Super Mario coin sound effect) - Why can't we just. - Keeping your options is incredibly annoying, disrespectful, and a landmine of potential hurt. Like I'm sure some of us and some of you have done it to others. I've done it. Not gonna lie, I've definitely done it. But the problem with piggy aren't serious about the person And look, I know the title but I actually thought of to someone and I felt Like at the beginning of myself included were, we were bored. We were lonely. We were horny, okay. I actually had this Okay, there's gotta be - There has to. - Okay, We'll just look and we'll find someone. - Okay, anyone. - Sigh, I just need to get laid. - Sigh, if there is a God. - Oh my God. - What? - Found one. (low volumed screams) - I'm not proud of it. I did end up leading someone on and it became abundantly clear to me how much he actually liked me and how my piggy banking was going to seriously hurt this person. And he was a good sweet person who like, didn't deserve that. So, I broke it off. Told him I was very sorry that I wouldn't be contacting him again unless I was serious in And since then, you know, I've been trying to be with people about my romantic I don't want to be presumptuous because you may just have But just in case you have romantic intent, I wanna let you know that - Yeah, that's totally cool. I mean, yeah, I definitely did but I'm down to be friends. - With you however, I do and I'd be interested in If That's what you want. - Oh, I think you're great. But in all honesty, I'm not emotionally - Totally understandable. I hope we can remain on good terms. - I think we could. - Well, thank you both for coming and letting me tell you that together. - Yeah, it's kinda weird. - Yeah, it's a little awkward. I'm going to be honest. - But it's cool cause - Look, I'm old, okay. My channel is dying, I'm dying. I pulled my back yesterday just by like picking up a robot vacuum. I tweaked my neck just by I'm getting to a point in my life that my therapist always calls. &quot;When women come into I think it should be called, the moment you cross the threshold of 30, your body breaks down. And the older you get from there you care way less about what people think. And I felt like she's was right. You know, I feel more than ever very comfortable living in my truth. Embodying the grumpy and honoring where my And obviously I'm going to mess up because I'm an idiot with human whims. And I did mess up by hurting this very (gasps for air) But I think what's important is that when we realize our we change, we stop. We evaluate our intentions And look, am I still very bored, very lonely, and very Yeah, absolutely. But the vaccine is around the corner. Patience is a virtue and vibrators never I'm Anna Akana, and thank you the Patreons Thank you to daddy Squarespace for sponsoring today's episode. If you're looking for a beautiful website to showcase your work, look no further. Daddy Squarespace's all in an aesthetically fire emoji website, easy. Not only will the process of the backend analytics and than ever to understand your traffic data. Daddy Squarespace also comes with a ton of bells and whistles like audio blocks, unique email campaigns, and You own all the content you and he offers one click data portability. Head to squarespace.com for a free trial. And whenever you're ready to launch go to squarespace.com/anna And use offer code Anna to save of a website or a domain. Squarespace keep using them. So they keep paying for my mortgage.