For most people who grow their own food always ends up in the backyard garden. huge amounts of room. But it doesn't have In this video, I'm going to show you how 235 pounds of potatoes in just I'm Tony O'Neill and this is Simplify how to garden in a simpler way. If you just want to grow your own clicking the subscribe button and the Then click all to be notified each time This is where i've sown my potatoes this space. But it's allowed me to sow 48 containing five varieties. determinate and indeterminate varieties been achieved. take into consideration before I harvest because these potatoes have had no at all, due to ill health. They've had to the only supply of water they've had is Taking this into consideration I don't in fact, I'll be surprised if I get any Obviously, i'm not going to show you me containers of potatoes. show you what we're likely to expect. me harvesting the rest. give you some tips so that area of potatoes. here. So the first one was sown on the 2nd of 2020 And you know what? I don't even know what Normally I've written on them so I don't As you can see, this is quite wet. that these have not had Only what has rained there's a lot of These a Sarpo Mira, so i don't know there's the seed potato there. Let's pull all that out, we'll stick that I'm relatively pleased with these They could have been bigger, but I wasn't expecting anything to be Now I will be talking about everything over the next part of this video. But I just want to harvest this one expect. they will I'm not sure. But they're still giving which is good. And as you can see this is still pretty wet, but we did have a good downpour In fact, we had a big storm and some of state on my greenhouses. I think that's Okay, so let's get this bucket and so there we are, guys, that's what we be honest with you, considering I haven't been here due So what we'll do now, is we'll get on I'm gonna pass on some information to the footage. And these even though they have of planting. And harvest the rest, I'm going to give you a small area like this. container size that's approximately 30 or 8 to 10 US gallons in size. I've containers over the years and 30 litres The reason for this is because it holds for the potatoes to spread and grow to a in compost and feed. diminishing results you get litre flower containers that are used a Number two, the amount of seed potatoes whether the variety of potato is Determinate potatoes grow on a single two seed potatoes in the lower third, the not utilized by the potatoes. level and to maximize the crop potatoes usually grow quite small in Due to this fact, the medium in four plants. Indeterminate potatoes on grow on multiple levels of their stem. So bottom third of the container, these all levels of the compost. Indeterminate their determinate counterparts, unable to support determinate potatoes these containers. should only provide Tip number three, allows you to decide whether you want to To grow smaller potatoes simply allow This will produce more tubers overall If you would prefer larger potatoes for then reduce the chits or sprouts on the This will produce fewer potatoes but in size. Tip number four, when sowing the cover the tops of the potatoes then come up growing in the field or in trench methods. pushing through the surface and spoiling You're much better to completely fill to within half-inch of the tops of the Number five, placing the containers is As a rule, you need to be in an area that Not too windy and near a water source. their depth in the soil. them in the soil and surrounding them in This helps them to keep the root area and feed that escapes out of the holes This can then be reabsorbed by by the wicking process. Tip number six, to prevent them from losing water to To do this, we use a mulch. I'm a big fan this comes from the equestrian or farm Simply place a good layer on top of the down as it will the soil much better. all planted to grow. They are mulched on the top and Is there anything else we can do to help? There are two more things we could do to and get better crops. The first of those tops of the plant. If you've ever grown know the challenges of the growing tops They sprawl all over the place This is counterproductive for us as way through them as in a small space they will flop over the pathway. A way I growing tops, some 18 inches above the buckets. to grow through, entire crop upright as a single unit, This year we've had some major storms. If i'd been here watering the potatoes as they were up and out of my way. gardeners, because the tops are stood buckets from the hot sun cool and acts like a tree canopy The last thing we need to consider is So let's take a look at watering first. water source. possible, but if not watering this many containers will take Consider adding an automated watering year before I went ill. Feeding meal or fish meal can be added at the Where i live, we can buy blood fish and For really good crops a high potassium feed should be used, this will aid tuber We can use a product like seaweed or Be aware that chicken manure pellets These are high in nitrogen and will growth at the cost of tuber formation. harvest your potatoes? You may hear flowering time passed. If the potatoes are still green when they are packing on their weight. than 50% of their leaves have Cut off all the haulms and allow them two skins. by waiting until the flowers have pod. If you want good potatoes when you remove them. seed pod producing otherwise, be put into tuber formation. the flowers and seed pods. plants the very best chance. video these have had no input from me are all the potatoes harvested And the varieties we've got, these white are Marfuna. These are Rudolph, We have some Charlotte, another bucket of A little bit of a bucket of Rudolph and Kestrel as well. So that's the five What we'll do now, I've brought the and see what we had. I've got to say But there's been a lot of these down to the fact that they didn't get the moisture that they I suspect a lot of this crop later in the year and they haven't had sort of growing, before they went over. we've got now out of just this small So the first thing i'm going to do is and I'm going to tare it out. So we're at zero now. Okay, so this is the Marfuna. Due to take a photograph of that, it keeps 18.875 kilos. The first bucket of Rudolph is 15.65 Let's do all of them first then. Second is 16.45. The last bucket of Rudolph So we're now going to the Sarpo Mira and that is 18.85. And another one. This one is 16.67. We've got a few charlottes here which is And that's 6.36. And last but not least, the Kestral. Which is 7.65. convert that into pounds as well guys. out. and there's a total of 106.45 of potatoes. So by doing throughout this video. chance. And as you already know from day one since they were planted. Now there's a lot of small potatoes in And some that are okay. But like I said, I the very fact that it was so hot in the And i wasn't here watering them so they on. the year where we've had crop there. because i wasn't expecting input. But it just containers right putting the straw on the top holds that This bark chip it's on the floor, look at it holds the moisture and then wicks it We've got 235 pounds of spuds and I've That cattle wire there the tops up. underneath there. I'll be doing that on this side, I didn't do it on that side all I think the potatoes are better on But as you can see i can practically both these posts here. It's just this that I've grown all of these potatoes in. It's no dig, no issue, no stress. look at what I had out of it. mulching your containers is tubers for of these growing methods as I got any So it is really worth you taking a look there have been various other youtubers success too. can subscribe here. know more about grown potatoes. I have a right here which covers all of the available to you. is Simplify Gardening. Where I show Remember folks you Reap What You Sow! bye