These are the world's strongest people. Their strength is next level! When he's not popping metal chains with his breath alone! You always see people in the gym using equipment Whether it's bad form, poor posture, or they This guy's so strong, I bet no-one ever equipment as additional weight. There's a very good reason they call Francis there. It looks like the other guy will pass out Ever wondered why it takes so long for your It's not because the runway's busy, it's planes using nothing but sheer strength. Here's one guy you don't want pointing His oversized thumb is a coconut-crushing Breaking baseball bats like this is something but this guy manages to break a whopping 65 When you keep beating all the arm wrestling next logical conclusion is to arm wrestle Ok so they might not have arms, but a winch It's not a real workout unless you punish sets. If you're not punching his six pack after same result with a watermelon. When all the free weights are being used at he can lift to get the job done. When you're that strong, I guess pain just In a true display of versatile strength, this followed by iron fists and steel shins. When JD breaks a solid wood bat over his own This man's bulging biceps or his thick skull. Coconuts are notoriously hard to crack. It's the reason why we have so many special Abheesh P. Dominic prefers the old-school a closed fist. Bench-pressing with weights is so last year. Karate master Sarychev prefers to lift smaller everyone enjoys. Many one-inch punch videos on the internet This guy wanted to silence the critics. You literally have to slow it down to see Every once in a while, even the bars need How much is he even lifting in the first place?! When it comes to world records, you can compete in the records book. This woman quite literally proves just that. But hey, it is impressive! Not one person watching this can actually how strong you are. It shouldn't be possible The world champion of competitive slapping the cheeks of his competitors. Sometimes he takes his frustration out on Whatever this guy's doing, you better not As much as it's impressive to watch, that This is how the world's strongest man trains Every guy's convinced he can break the record His swing's so powerful, it popped the top Okay, so I get the how, but I need help with If you've ever had a flat tire and there's call. They don't call it Russian strength for Whilst most of us are out here skipping leg new levels. Racking all those plates again must take ages Most people will hit a punching bag and expect Not this guy. One kick from him and the bag goes flying This guy's figured out a way to hack gravity. There's just no other explanation for how 360 degrees before breaking three wooden planks If you ever wondered what Mr T's been up You can safely assume his time was well occupied. Peeling coconuts has never looked easier. When you're time poor, often it's a choice Jon Call found a way to save time by combining time. The strongest fighters in the world use their That's why this shaolin monk can withstand blocks over his bare skull without getting A headbutt from him would be lights out. What do you think happens to all the pumpkins You might be surprised to learn that they by hand, ready for recycling. Head to the exotic fruits section of your It won't phase this guy though, a single fruit splits in half. Holding yourself up horizontally from a vertical on you while you do it? That's a demonstration of superhuman strength! When this guy picks up a set of weights, you're or perform a triple backflip on the spot. His strength and explosive power means there's When Jantee was a little boy, his parents if he worked hard enough. So he became an extreme bodybuilder with a on his pecs. This guy's hands are so strong, there's He even set up a whole gauntlet of obstacles are. Andry Strong is a calisthenics enthusiast, strength and upper body stability. This means he can pull off impressive feats Since the dawn of time, martial artists have concrete blocks. But rather than punching through, Victor Blud Most people struggle doing more than a handful This guy's able to do it all with just one He earned a place in the Guinness World Records Turn this video on its side and it looks like But the truth is way more impressive. The upper body strength needed to climb the This guy's upper body strength is something Balanced push-ups with his feet suspended most people can't do. Well how about hopping forward on his hands Nailed it! If Tarzan ever came across a pair of jeans, Climbing trees and flexing a horizontal chin-up, This kid's going for height, and with a to leap more than fifteen feet in the air There's literally nowhere you can hide from With a little practice, almost everyone could But what if you only had an inch of room to This guy's able to snap not one, not two, fist. They say for a balanced workout, you should muscle groups. This guy's found the ultimate routine that Watch as this guy destroys punching bags and Who needs a demolition crew when he's just No matter how many times I watch the Olympics, throw when it's clearly a ball and chain. Strong, forceful kicks are a difficult skill Ericcson can deliver them from either foot Without missing a beat, the martial arts pro It's always good to train with someone. Like these two best buds who've decided as training equipment. It looks difficult all round, but I can't When you've got a physique as cut as Max's, in public. Jokes aside, you've gotta be impressed with once. In boxing, it's not just about how hard you Moving your face away from incoming fists At first glance, it looks like this guy has But he's not punching the ground out of a surprisingly difficult routine.