On August 2, 1990 Saddam Hussein stuns the attack. But six months later, the Iraqi army the First Gulf War. So how does Saddam's and even Soviet states against him, and lead In 1988, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein signs a Iraq had suffered 600,000 casualties, achieved crushing debt. Baghdad owes foreign creditors $80 destroyed regions. His million-man army, the 4th of annual GDP. There's high unemployment and, wants OPEC to raise them, but the United Arab their own profits while depressing prices. rule. He depends on high military and social to internal challenges . Already, throughout often Shi'ite minorities, such as the Feyli But the solution to his security and financial Kuwait holds $10 billion of so Saddam reasons that he can demand his financial crisis. He also pressures War protected them from radical Islam and that In February 1990, Saddam urges Jordan and Egypt in exchange for regional stability. To exercises on the Kuwaiti border. pressure even more at a summit in Baghdad: a barrel of oil our loss amounts to $1 billion a done by economic means. Therefore, we would ask this is in fact a kind of war against Iraq. withstand pressure." (Freedman and Karsh 46) Saddam's demands "absurd." solutions. On July 15, 3 Iraqi divisions of 35,000 border. Saddam declares Kuwait is conspiring with military action as protecting the Arab nation. and extortion." The Gulf States, worried about too strongly. On July 17 the US confirms it will states. It fears Iraqi dominance in the region and undermine the sovereignty of By July 27, the Iraqis have 100,000 the threat is widely dismissed as pure coercion. yes there's a bit of a problem, but they would not attack an Arab brother, But the US and others have misjudged 1990, his troops move into Kuwait. At 2am, the Iraqi Hammurabi and Medina armored while Iraqi Republican Guards commandos land resistance from Kuwaiti garrison troops and the Emir of Kuwait flees, while his brother 48 hours later, Saddam fully occupies Kuwait, Bank and doubling Iraqi oil reserves. The UN invasion and demands Iraqi troops withdraw. opposing forces from mobilizing, but instead it By invading, Saddam losses credibility the overthrow of a Gulf monarchy alarms the Iraq has disrupted the balance of Middle Eastern In the West, Saddam's invasion is seen state. American defense officials also which would further threaten oil supplies. It is a during the Iran-Iraq War just a few years before. is a surprise. Like the Americans, the Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev informs Iraq has conquered Kuwait, but with powerful Saddam's strike now looks like a reckless gamble. On August 6, the UN imposes an embargo on national budget . The same day, King Fahd deploy in Saudi territory to deter Iraqi that Saddam actually intends to invade Saudi On August 8, American President [ORIGINAL AUDIO GEORGE H. W. BUSH] Airborne Division as well as key units of the take up defensive positions in Saudi Arabia. government in the defense of its homeland... and complete withdrawal of all Iraqi forces from must be restored to replace the puppet regime." coalition forces . Jordan is opposed to Iraq's fleeing Iraq amid the fear of an escalating offer support and troops to the coalition is eager to intervene , while France is outraged Kuwait, and also joins. As up to 200,000 Kuwaitis they bring with them claims of widespread additional moral basis for intervention: "Plenty of the soldiers came to our house. They Kuwaiti, that means we are Kuwaiti. ... They took However, widely reported testimony of Iraqi incubators are later exposed as fabrications Saddam tries to split the growing coalition before the Arab states by claiming that Israel - which deliberately stays out of the coalition to Saddam takes hundreds of foreign nationals He says he'll guarantee their safety if but the move backfires as it pushes the Meanwhile more countries pledge support and ships to financial assistance and with the United States, UK, France, Saudi With the coalition building up build defensive lines around Kuwait, To support the coalition, a massive logi called Desert Shield. Saudi ports are at maximum 24/7. Engineers build new highways for thousands Within 90 days, the US alone medical equipment and food for 157,000 helicopters and combat aircraft. The kilometer training area for acclimatizing more than 75 million litres of fuel every day. Syrian, Saudi, and British divisions also begin 10 Iraq divisions dig in along the frontline large minefields, and artillery pre-sighted Guards Corps provides the strategic reserve while Saddam -- thinking of the Vietnam War -- hopes that to risk attacking well-fortified defenses. On remaining foreign hostages in an attempt to stop the UN sets a deadline for him to withdraw are concerned Saddam may now only partially but delegitimizing a coalition intervention. the US is ready to strike : mean a partial withdrawal and it doesn't mean he thirty per cent of what he stole, it means Iraqi forces from Kuwait [...] He needs to be aware full spectrum of capabilities and were Saddam destruction the us response would be absolutely In the end, Saddam ignores the ultimatum, since he the looming coalition threat of military action. At 3am on January 17, 1991, coalition forces begin aircraft, including 323 American carrier-based network of hardened bunkers, anti-aircraft guns, aircraft is hard pressed to stop them. target Iraqi radar installations, blinding attack. In the first day, the coalition launch jets. Over the first three days they suppress the 500 aircraft shelters. Surviving Iraqi jets Lieutenant Colonel Waldo B. Cummings Jr. describes airspace, I looked down and saw the biggest light orange tracers covered the black void below us. It on a trigger had pressed down and wouldn't let blindly in the hope that one would hit something. nose of my aircraft down into a 30-degree picked out his aim point on the radar. [...] secondary explosions." (Westermeyer) cruise missiles, including strikes on Iraq's and Saddam International Airport . Confused Iraqi defences down just 12 American Iraqi frontline troops are worried about from III corps noted in his diary: "One says it [...] Others come to pacify you saying only bombed the military installations. Others You don't know who to believe and who is lying. all lying. The truth is lost." (Westermayer) of Kuwait, the Iraqi military hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells to Some oil wells are also hit during the aerial entire area, causes massive pollution, Iraq also unleashes its arsenal of they launch the first of 86 scud missiles military targets. Saddam hopes to fracture the conflict against the wishes of the US and Arab though, downplays Scuds' military significance [ORIGINAL AUDIO: NORMAN SCHWARZKOPF] a lightning storm in Southern Georgia than I would SCUDs are coming down. If it's going to hit you, much less. I think the state of Israel understands to obtain by attacking them with SCUDs, is to come into this war, they are doing exactly what not in the best interest of everyone involved." the threat seriously and take precautions. partly because the US pledges billions of dollars batteries. Schwarzkopf also sends out SAS and Saddam also takes other steps to provoke the cross-border raid into the Saudi town of Khafji occupy the town, coalition forces, backed up by The Khafji battle illustrates the power a theatre-wide offensive . From J anuary target command centers, naval installations, logistics and Iraqi troops within so-called of frontline are assigned to aircraft, which can Iraqi conscripts desert under the bombardment, armored vehicles, and 1,155 artillery pieces. 340 attack helicopters, 2,000 tanks, and 2,000 air and sea barrages. They plan a large left hook behind. American Central Command-CENTCOM-takes British, and French forces. Arab and American Marine landing craft prepare a fake amphibious the coast when the Coalition force attacks. and American Airborne Divisions push forward 270km into Iraq using over 300 helicopters. after weeks of brutal air attacks and high rates already cut Highway 8 between Baghdad and Kuwait, resistance and often surrender en-masse. direct attacks. Their goal is to take the Iraqi encircle the Iraqis . Tanks mounted with bulldozer earth into Iraqi trenches, burying some soldiers they create a 16-kilometre breakthrough zone. attacks, is unable to respond effectively. and the choking black smoke of Iraqi oil trenches defenses and over 3,000 Iraqis surrender almost advances over 20 miles into Kuwait, takes over By the end of February 24, Coalition but the fight isn't over yet. The Iraqi Republican coalition from breaking into the rear. Coalition forces advance across the front. but push forward with the support of the US fight off large Iraqi counter attacks with minimal Abrams tanks destroy 35 Iraqi tanks in 90 seconds. T-55, T-60, and T-72 tanks. With a 120mm main the US M1A1 Abrams can penetrate the armor well trained tank crew to fire while moving, advantage over Iraqi tanks fighting in the also cause problems for the coalition forces. encircle Kuwait, on the flank of another massive elements of the Iraqi Republican Guards Tawakalna with strong desert winds, aerial reconnaissance Bradley APCs and Abrams tanks fight against Iraqi is the coalition able to break through for good. both by friendly fire. American armor overruns 30 T-72 tanks in fortified positions. positions and, US guns destroy The rapid pace of the advance surprises the from the south rather than the west. "We're located about right here. At this came right through here by the them from behind. And because when we most of them were pointing towards the south through the city. There was not a whole lot weren't really able to see us or shoot at us." have defeated 24 Iraqi divisions. As Iraqi troops highway to Baghdad by coalition airpower. Hundreds as mostly US planes strafe and bomb the column 'Highway of Death' make headlines around the their vehicles, but many others are killed. the Talil and Jalibah airbases despite Iraqi of Death' scenes as coalition aircraft attempting to flee or redeploy to the west. under the Coalition assault. American, Saudi, and the Emir of Kuwait requests his own Before the Kuwaitis can rebuild they still have to put out the army is reeling and Saddam Hussein's As Saddam's forces retreat into Iraq, President The war isn't over and fleeing Iraqi forces is to eject Iraq from Kuwait, not pursue them likely some coalition partners, especially One possible solution is to support a regime repressed ethnic and religious minorities sense an of America promotes uprisings in mid-February, Partly encouraged by such statements, a mobilize against Saddam. Then, on February 28, the makes it clear the coalition's objectives [ORIGINAL AUDIO GEORGE H. W. BUSH] is defeated. Our military objectives are Kuwaitis in control of their own destiny. [...] tonight Eastern Standard Time exactly 100 and six weeks since the start of effort Operation forces will suspend offensive combat operations." soldiers, including many Sh'iites, turn and prisons - with the support of much of the revolution soon spreads to other Sh'ia cities militias also rise against Saddam. Helped by army often without a fight. Unlike the uprising has a more organized political there are revolts in 14 of Iraq's 18 provinces. The US prefers a coup and intact Iraq rather than have the country break up. some limited ground forces in support of the Baghdad and Sunni majority cities in the so-called well-armed and mostly intact Republican Guard. made up of many different political organizations, Although united on the overthrow of Saddam, power-sharing deal offered by Saddam on March 7. the offensive. Against fragmented revolutionary by early April. They use tanks and helicopter earlier and permitted in the ceasefire agreement fleeing civilians. There are also widespread weapons. The few remaining US troops in Iraq near but they destroy captured arsenals to Some Northern Kurdish groups do hold out, region under the protection of both Iran and the by the lack of expected US support. "I think we are disappointed really not only think that during the war everybody knew that in the Gulf -- and they even some of them, they get rid of Saddam Hussein. But when Iraqi people they look away. And they said: 'This is The situation is made worse by the continuation economy and public health. After Saddam's Iraqi exile groups will pressure the For the Coalition in February 1991, the Gulf Casualties are low, public support remains high, and they built and maintained The casualty count is a testament to The Coalition loses 292 killed and 776 wounded The Kuwaiti army loses 420 killed and 12,000 20,000-50,000 killed, more than 75,000 wounded, civilians are killed or missing and over 3,000 Shield. A further 5,000 Iraqi troops and while up to 180,000 civilians and rebels are Coalition veterans begin to suffer with symptoms similar to chronic fatigue or about its causes, with theories suggesting anti-nerve agent drugs or exposure to deliberate Iraqi use or the destruction of Iraqi third of the combat force - report symptoms. doesn't stop Saddam from cracking down on internal killing and displacing hundreds of thousands. though a few stay behind to maintain some control collapse. The Gulf War has created new and complex US government dissatisfied with the results -- Saddam's invasion of Kuwait happened just that moment that the superpowers of the world that would have been unthinkable just years modernize the USSR but ultimately failed - some the Chernobyl disaster of 1986 and its aftermath. an entire documentary series about this topic from Prypiat and beyond. And where can you watch Red building together with other creators, where we or the almighty algorithm. On Nebula you can't War 2 series 16 Days in Berlin and Rhineland 45 there ad-free and earlier than on YouTube - is available on smartphones, Apple TV, Roku and you can get an entire year of Nebula for just $36. on Nebula, the Nebula Lifetime membership at nebula.tv/realtimehistory, one third of this History and the rest will help develop bigger with bigger budgets. The lifetime membership is even history videos. By the way this option is So head over to nebula.tv/realtimehistory and We want to thank Michael Adato for his help with check out our video on the 6 Day War. If you thank you so much for the support, we Alexander and this is a production of Real remembers the December 1990 New Japan