Child prodigies, especially are sort of like human cat videos. Whether they're playing classical music or they're in a sport or playing chess, you can't look away from them, they're so entertaining. We think of that as a trajectory. If they're this good they're gonna be so good And I think the idea that is that if I just give my kid early, technical training, and they'll stay ahead forever. It's just the problem is that I'm David Epstein, author of &quot;Range: Why Generalists Triumph (climactic synthetic music) - [Cameraman] Nice, bro! (scribbling) - Okay, so even if you don't know the details of Tiger Woods' story, it's probably the most powerful His father gave him a putter At two years old, he was showing off his swing At three, he was learning how as he put it at the time and saying, &quot;I'm gonna &quot;I'm gonna be the next Jack Nicholas.&quot; By the time he's a teenager, he's famous. And you fast forward to age 21 and he's the greatest golfer in the world. I think one of the reasons that prodigy stories are so attractive is because we're used to as being a trajectory, right? It's intuitive to want to In sports, that might be something like learning how to run or very specific techniques. Or in music, how to play the same piece over and over and over again. Or in academics, tricks for The problem is, we don't We are not wired correctly to interpret our own 'cause we just want what comes the fastest when, in many cases, slower development is actually the best in the long run. One way to think about the as a learning environment, and the milieu in which some kind of skill. They run on a spectrum from where what you have to do is very clear and delineated by clear and the task doesn't change, all the way to wicked where information might be obscured, there are no discernible and even the feedback you get And we only see those prodigies in these very kind learning environments. You can think of something like chess. The grandmaster's advantage on recognizing recurring patterns. But most of the work we do these days is more toward the wicked where we can't just count over and over or giving us For the wicked world, you want what scientists call a sampling period, where you're forming conceptual frameworks and abstract ideas that you as the activity itself changes. For a lot of the 20th century, the biggest contributions But in the information became quickly and easily disseminated, it became easier to be and the biggest from people who spread their of technological domains, and bringing it to another area where it was seen as extraordinary, even if it was more (playful music) Gunpei Yokoi was was a Japanese man who didn't score well on his so he had to settle for a low tier job as a machine maintenance worker This playing card company, is called Nintendo. And one day, the president essentially playing around 'cause he didn't have anything to do and he made an extendable It was just a device where with suction cups. And the desperate president &quot;we're going to market,&quot; and it's sort of a success. And so the president says, &quot;all right, &quot;you're going to start a Yokoi realizes that he's not equipped to work on the cutting edge, but there's so much that he can take information and merge it, and he did the Game Boy. He developed this philosophy he called lateral thinking And what he meant by he meant technology that's easily available and often cheap, and lateral thinking meant where everyone's already used to it and merging it with something else. Because the technology was so withered and so well understood, programmers inside and outside of Nintendo pumped out games for it way and the Game Boy became of the 20th century and Nintendo still uses with withered technology philosophy today. The more we work in a where we're not exactly or what work will look like next year or in five years or 10 years, the more we want those people and can kind of draw on And one of the ways I think is essentially having I know that sounds bad, right? You tell people we should and that it's like the &quot;who are you gonna be in 10 or 20 years?&quot; and &quot;march toward that.&quot; It turns out that's not especially when you're younger. We're essentially for a person they don't yet know who's gonna be working in a The main advice, if I judge is to not feel behind because where you're going, anyway. And I think, rather to someone who isn't you, you should compare yourself and proceed that way.