(gentle music) - [Narrator] One of the world's on a road or highway. It's at the Panama Canal. By the end of August, a backlog of more than 200 ships waited for weeks to pass through the waterway. Some were stalled for more than 20 days. - We handle about $600 through the Panama Canal. - [Narrator] And this vital The cause a historic drought. The delays are rippling as lower water levels cut into shipping times and bottom lines. Here's how the Panama Canal and what those changes mean and industries that depend on it. (bright music) When the Panama Canal it was a game changer for - [Narrator] A little job and Pacific. - [Narrator] For the first time, cargo ships could save between the Atlantic and Pacific. Bypassing this treacherous journey around the tip of South America. By connecting two oceans, countries with vast distances between them could now compete in Global Trade. But as the canal runs out of water, canal operators like Ricaurte Vasquez are scrambling to protect the root. Vasquez is the head administrator for the Panama Canal Authority, which maintains and operates the waterway. - We handle about 55% of all containers that go to We do that in about in regular times. - [Narrator] Ships like to about 85 feet above sea level through a system of locks and then lowered down on the other end. Every time a ship passes through as much as 120 million gallons that's enough to fill as many as 244 Olympic sized swimming pools. All of that water comes from a system of freshwater reservoirs and - It operates on fresh water, which is a major difference, compared to any other major We cannot pump water from - [Narrator] Even though Panama is the world's fifth rainiest country, it no longer has a steady - Over the last 20 years, there is a downward trend We were 89 feet over sea level. Nowadays, we are 79 feet over sea level, so that is a 10 feet reduction on the lake level in a - [Narrator] Lower water for cargo ships that sometimes carry as many as 16,000 containers at a time. If ships are too heavy, they risk getting trapped in the canal. - We have to introduce draft restrictions, which imposes that every or with less cargo in order to sail through the Panama Canal. - [Narrator] A ship's draft of water a vessel can safely navigate. This decides how much without getting stuck. As drought conditions the waterway reduced its draft - For a container vessel, on the average, every feet of draft represents - [Narrator] Since may, large container vessels like this one have had to reduce cargo - That of course, means that to our customers as a result of this. - [Narrator] Lars Oestergaard Nielsen is the Head of Customer Delivery The world's second largest in terms of capacity. - We actually sail extra because we lose this six feet of water, we lose an opportunity to load some cargo. (engine revving) - [Narrator] Other ship to the restrictions by offloading The boxes are unloaded from ships on one side of the canal, to the vessels before they But the system doesn't - If you are a bulk carrier, there is no way to unload. So you have to come light and then you look for another port destination to increase your cargo and then take it to the final destination. - [Narrator] In an effort the canal has limited the amount of vessels that are allowed but fewer ships traveling through the canal, means longer Shipping executives say container vessels, now pay around $400,000 That includes a fresh water surcharge of more than 10%, meaning the more shipping companies have to pay. - So far, what we have tried is to reduce from 36 transits per day So there are a lot less for standby customers. Of the 30 slots or 32 slots that we offer about 28 of them are already booked. - [Narrator] Container in advance, typically aren't impacted by these types of bottlenecks, but vessels that aren't on fixed routes, like bulk and gas carriers that move cargo on short notice The delays for these types of non-book vessels That's according to project44. A supply chain visibility platform. On top of the delays, bulk carriers are also - There are now an opportunity where you can basically to these limited time slots Now those auctions have and the highest number we have - [Narrator] To make up ship owners are charging customers about $600 more per cargo container. - There's no doubt that for global trade. If the canal was not there then that would essentially add more cost. It would add delays. - [Narrator] Disruptions could hurt southern hemisphere exporters and northern importers. Brazilian meat, Chilean wines are regularly shipped across the canal. Copper from Chile and natural gas from the US Gulf Coast It's also one of the fastest and least expensive ways to move grain and other agricultural commodities, which leave the port of About 73% of all the traffic is either headed for or But shipping executives say and costs are leading some bulk carriers to seek out alternate routes. Vessels carrying products may sail through the Suez Canal or around the Cape of Good Hope, adding one to two weeks to the journey. - It's basically your or in tanker. So this could be oil, it could be natural gas, - [Narrator] For now, Maersk and other large container to divert their core Still, executives say, if drought conditions worsen. - Yes, we have a problem. We acknowledge this will but in order to minimize we are providing the information, so you make the best decision based on real data on real-time. - [Narrator] The canal's future now hinges on $2 billion plan to divert as many as four additional That's an addition to the three But adding new reservoirs is a costly and lengthy undertaking. New water would have to come from watersheds that are requiring the construction River diversions also put pressure on the region's limited water sources, which support over 2 million people and the surrounding rainforest ecosystems. Ultimately, canal operators are working to maintain a balance between the water needs of and Panama's growing urban population. - We have to make provisions for water consumption well and population growth. There is a slight competition between water for transit and - [Narrator] The Panama Canal in new infrastructure - We are thinking about roads, we are thinking about storage facilities, we're thinking about complimentary for cargoes that can wait in Panama to find the final destination. - [Narrator] These changes over 25 years, but administrators say, drought and changing that timeline down to 10. Canal operators see this to fast track critical - The opportunity is now because there is a high level People have a sense of what the value of not (gentle music)