Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today we're going to anything. If you're tired of boring and repetitive Make? Well, let's start with an example. At the for cookies using a Google Forms order form. We tracking spreadsheet. And when I say someone, that always me. I then email the customer to let them message the Fulfillment Team channel in Microsoft start shipping it. Now, as you can imagine, this include the wrong details in the email. Ideally, a simple example, but you can automate just about different apps and services. And best of all, it's want to follow along, feel free. I partnered with so let's get started. First, head to the following above, and I've also included a link down below you can set up a free account. And with a free and you can start automating your work. If you operations, and you also get additional features. set up your free account. Once you finish signing main Make dashboard. Over on the left-hand side, drops us on a page with thousands of different together various types of applications. Right up the top. You can collect data via a webhook and maybe you'd like to take all of your new Telegram Discord. You can do that. Now, you may very well looking for, in which case, congratulations. Or learn more about how they work. That way it Makes take any one of these scenarios and build upon it. Telegram bot. You could do that. To understand how build our own scenario. And this will give you a possible. Over on the left-hand side, let's that we don't yet have any scenarios. And that's right-hand corner, let's change that by clicking the scenario editor or the designer. And this is at first glance, it might look like there are a we'll Make sense of them. Now, right here in the icon. This is the first step of our scenario. off the scenario or the automation. And over we can use to kick off our scenario. And like I can connect to. This list goes on and on and on. Kevin Cookie Company, our customers submit their can also search for different apps. So here, I'll There it is. That's one of the apps that I can sorts of different actions that you could take. could create a new form. And here, I could click options. Now, in my case, a customer is going the trigger for this automation. And then I want there's an option for watch responses, triggers what I want, so I'll click on this. This now opens connection with Google Forms. Now, anytime you have to establish a connection. This allows Make different services. Now, I've already added my your first time, you'll have to click on add, and to your account. If you have any difficulties link that says online help. And it's a very rich how you can connect to a wide variety of different configuration field. We need to provide the form are you have many different Google Forms. You Let's jump over to Google Forms to see how we can you can see our cookie order form. Right down email address, their name, the shipping address the cookie type, the quantity, and also any ID. So right at the very top in the address bar And right here in the middle in between the D and And this identifies this specific form in Google then press control C to copy, and then let's go in the form ID. Here, I'll type in that exact you can also try searching for your form. But know that I'm getting the exact form that I'd like called the limit, and this is how much data you that you have 10 form responses and you'd like then you'd have to set a higher limit like 10 so I'll leave it set to the default of two. And have successfully connected to Google Forms and we let's Make sure that we save this scenario. Down Over here, let's click on the option that says now see that this scenario was saved. Perfect. scenarios. Here I can now see all the different I just have one scenario. This is my integration but soon we'll have a nice automation set different automations and lots of different can add additional folders and you can organize I just have one, so I don't need to do that. let's click into integration Google Forms. And center of the page. And this brings us right back want to test to Make sure that this is all working submit a sample cookie order. So, let's jump over I've filled out the cookie order form. Down at at that, the response has been recorded. Back in the bottom left-hand corner, you'll see this And it looks like it just successfully ran. Now module in the top right hand corner, you see this one operation. With a free account, you get 1,000 with how it work, and you can set up a number we can see the bundle that came back, or the we see that there was one bundle or basically one And then if I expand answers, here I can see form questions. For example, select cookie type. the way down. And here I can see that the value the other categories. Now, one of the great things and I could use that now in any other application. the power of Make comes from. You can manipulate bring it to and connect with other applications. this view. Let's now bring the data from Google within the scenario designer, you could simply option to add a module, or what's even easier, in another module. And this opens up that same screen we've already used that. And here we can and we can feed that into any other application. power of being able to take data from one location here I saw the option for Google Sheets. And I within Google Sheets. I'll click on this you have all sorts of different actions that you I see the option to add a row. I would like to from that form. I'll click on this option. This saw with Forms, first, you'll need to establish a feed the data to. In this case, I'm using Google we need to identify the file that we would like select by path, the file's in My Drive, and down click on this and this will pull together all the see a spreadsheet called the Kevin Cookie Company right here. And next, I can select the sheet name. so I'll select sheet one. And next, it also asks I'll set it to yes. Let's have a quick look at the am now in Google Sheets. And it's a very simple one of these different columns corresponds I have a column for the customer name, the email quantity, special instructions. And then we shipped. And this is what our order fulfillment they'll put down yes. And if it hasn't let's now jump back into Make to see how we can Back within Make within the configuration panel, the customer name, the email, the shipping first column within the spreadsheet or column A. all the different columns show up here. We now Google Sheet. So over here, let's click into the I can see all the data that I'm getting back data I would like to use from the form and where for the customer name, I want to take the customer with all the data. So right down here, let's click coming back. And here I see a field for your name. expand this, expand this. And over here, I can see Monster. He ordered cookies and I think he's and this will now take the form value or the within this column. So right down here, we can now Here I see a field for the respondent email. all these different text fields and I could fill let's expand all these different categories. And for the cookie type, we're going to do the exact sections of the bundle and let's insert that. And finished going through telling Make what data I want it to show up within Google Sheets. Now that very bottom, let's click on the button that says, submit another cookie order form. I filled in all Back within Make, let's now run this scenario Google Sheets. So right down below, I'll click on over on the left-hand side, we should now see it see the Google Form show up directly within Google We've now connected two different applications and application. And soon we'll connect even more. to this scenario. We also sometimes get orders we don't yet have the capability to ship outside but I want to make sure we don't confuse our Right within or between these two different we have the option to set up a filter. Let's click set up a filter. Right up on top, I can give it a I can set a condition. Now, I want the shipping then it's a valid order. So over here, I'll expand answers, and right down here, I see the value for it'll check this value to make sure that it let's click on this dropdown and I have all sorts different things, but I just want to know, does it contains, and I want it to be case insensitive. it'll still catch that. I'll click on this and in the future, we'll have to look at supporting of our business. In the bottom right-hand corner, Now again, if I get an order from outside the it'll never add it to our order tracking sheet. added to this sheet. It's perfect. Now that we need to thank the customer for their order. Let's we're going to send out an email. And to do that, we'll do it just like we did before. Over here, And here I could search through all the different apps. I want to send an email. So here I'll type but here I see email. I'll click on this. I can take with mail. I want to send an email to an email. Let me click on this. This now opens up first, you'll need to connect to the service. various options that you can set. For example, I'll set it to no. Right down here, you can also here I see email address one. Let's click into of the preceding steps in this scenario. So here Google Sheets and all the different values that I is right here, the respondent email in Google data from Forms, and in fact, when I hover over is expanding over here. That's letting me know Now that I've indicated the email address, down type in your cookie order is confirmed. Right down or plain text. I'll go with plain text. Nothing Right down below, I can also enter in the say dear customer name, but I want to insert the placeholder. And right over here in the Google expand this and go all the way down. We're going And I'll insert that customer name into this whatever the customer's name is from Google Forms Also, we call out cookies ordered. So over here, it says cookie type. Let's expand this. And here, I'll insert that. That's a dynamic value. And like we did with the name and also the cookie insert that value. This will now be a customized below, I'll click on okay. And look at that, a with sending a thank you email to our customer, team know that there's now a new order that they let's add another module. I'll click on that and I'm going to use Microsoft Teams. And right show more. Here, we have all sorts of different want to send a message to a channel. Right here, I to a team's channel or to a chat. That's exactly currently, this is just sitting here on its own, I needed to route to both email and to Teams. So, I could click over here and drag it and now pull it sets up a router. What that means is the data and onto Microsoft Teams. So, it'll go to both so I could adjust the visual layout so I could I need to configure Microsoft Teams. Over here, opens up a dialogue and up on top, you'll need And I've already done that. Right down here, I to send. You can send a channel message or a chat so I'll select that option. And next, it asks should post this message. Let's jump over to information. Here within Microsoft Teams, over teams and the associated channels. I would like to the general channel. To get the Team ID and also the channel. And then here's the option to get a this very long URL. And right within here, here I here I have the Team ID. You could simply then bring it into Make. Back within Make, here ID. And right down below, I can now type in my some placeholders. We have a new order from, and the customer name. I'll remove this. And over both Google Sheets and also Google Forms. Now let's look for customer name. Here I see your get the value for the customer name. And that'll do the same for both the quantity and the cookie to this channel, down below, let's click on OK. ready to test it. And there are a few different sure that everything is working well. Perhaps you I could right click on a module and here's maybe you just want to test out one of the could right click on the connection and you have out one of the branches on its own. So, there are make sure that it's working as you expect it to. an order and we'll see it go through this entire with all of my different details. Of course, I'm down here, please deliver by pigeon. I find that's it and see this go through the scenario. Back at that. It looks like it successfully ran through collect the data from the Google Form. Then we Sheet. Here we have our router and it sends out more operation to send the message to Microsoft went through all these steps properly. Here I I see the new order that I just delivered, and just received an email and it's customized to the expected. And lastly, here we have Microsoft Teams have a new order from Kevin Stratvert for 985 everything worked just as expected. Now that we the next step is probably to schedule it. I mean, manually run this every time I think an order we can press this toggle and this turns scheduling Currently it's set to every 15 minutes. But when Currently it's set to at regular intervals, but of the week, or certain days of the month. And configure how often this runs. Now keep in mind, scenario will consume. So, think of a reasonable we've automated our way to extra free time. Keep of different services and can be far more complex multiple steps and stages to your automations. branch your workflows into separate paths, and different templates to see what all is possible. to start automating your tasks and how much watch more videos like this one, please consider