So my journey started at the age of 17. Didn't know which direction I was gonna go. And decided to take my rucksack And I needed a sleeping place And I bumped into an old medicine man. And the guy at that time was already in his late And I winded up in a And the next morning, I woke up, and it was like crazy. There was puking people everywhere, and he was like handling the situation. Somewhere between 10 and 20 from this herbalist. I was gonna stay there one day, but in the end, I stayed a whole week. And it intrigued me what It was probably my first real encounter with somebody who was using And the day I left, he took my hands, and he gave me a bunch &quot;Arjan, these seeds are gonna they're gonna overthrow governments. And that's where my journey started. Hey guys, welcome to Thailand. Welcome to our amazing dispensary. I think it's the first time we can start a documentary making in our own dispensary, But let me walk you guys now, a little bit, through the itinerary of the trip. Tonight, we'll have interview with Beer. It's good to show Beer, one of the young that made the whole cannabis scene legal, together with the minister, Anutin. Tomorrow, first thing This is the legend in Thailand. If we're gonna go to the north, in the Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai area, we will find a lot of his seeds. He's been breeding for a And then the next morning, we go straight to the So we're gonna arrive Chiang Mai. We're gonna do that Then we go to the area of Chiang Rai. We're gonna do that area three days. - And it's good timing Because everything is gonna Yeah, the landrace, there is a lot. They will all keep it. But people will grow all It's just inevitable Then we go closer to Mukdahan. We're gonna do a factory two days. And then we're going to end in Bangkok. - It sounds amazing. Some presents are coming. So what we gonna take? Some Chemdog, some Mango haze, Lemon&amp;orange, Chemical bride, Ztrawberry. Fullgas, really nice also. Fullgas is named after Franco. He was always full gas. So, in honor of him, we And this place is your in Bangkok, Thailand. Green House Seed Co. When you arrive for your great holiday in one of the greatest countries - Hey, Dust! Look good. - Welcome here, all in This is Beer's Place. Very close friend of mine. We know each other a few years. And Beer, one of the reasons because he's one of the who made this all possible in Thailand. But before I even say that, I brought you some presents, 'cause we go a little bit way back. So I promised you for a while ago, we were gonna grow indoor. So these are- This is the indoor one? - No, no! - I'm excited! - Indoor for you- The Lemon Haze was our, what is that? - Classic. - It's the history for everybody, you know. Also for you, as a Thai grower, everybody. I think Super Lemon Haze won - Actually, this one how I started with cannabis. - When did you start growing? - I started growing since I was 16. I'm 38, or 7. - 39. - Yeah. - So tell me, pre-legalization, Because the day of legalization, they released 7,000 So how heavy was it for you? Like, how many friends go to prison? How many years, what? - I've had a friend that went It was a pretty bad time. One of the worst time ever to do weed. - Yeah, it was- I don't give a fuck. - So tell me a little bit about your contribution to the legalization, 'cause I know you have some with a lot of people, that How's that going? - Since all the stuff I've done, when I was to be a monk, I'm trying to introduce all 'Cause I know, with my age, And then, so I had my uncle, who was the only medical doctor put into the cannabis Because in the past, they all knew me. I used to do, you know, Like, family holidays with And then I'm the kid who brought the weed and got my dad busted. I was a kid. I was like 15, 16, just And got everybody's kid high. And all the stupid decisions in my life have led me to, when &quot;Well why don't ask Beer?&quot; Because he was always ...who get busted with the weed! Trust me, I got busted like regularly. And then I had him So I invited everybody who and introduced them. And then kind of supplied that through. Somehow, it worked. And then it worked from then on. Thank you so much, man. It's great to see you. - Keep up the fight, yeah. - Great speaking with you, man. - My father. - There you go, man. - Take me back to your farm! Please take me out, please! - So we're in Soi Cowboy. A little bit early, but this is the place to be in Bangkok for a little bit funny nightlife. So hi, girls. Actually, in one and a half years, this is the first time I'm here. So yeah, what do you Okay guys, everybody give a big cheers. Thanks to the whole team! - Cheers. Oscar, what - Huh? What did you do? We almost missed all the flights. What happened this morning? - What the fuck, dude? I was dreaming man. then you kicked me. - How are you even in my room? and with the security. - It was you? Like, with your snake out. - Yeah. On the way to Ko Samui, guys. And then were gonna take to meet the one and only legend, KD. - Okay guys, let's go meet the legend, KD! - Let's go. I'm pretty sure, 50% sure, that's KD waiting on the pier, there. You see, straight in front of me? All the time I seen him on the picture, he's got a white shirt. When I met him, he had Thank you so much for having us. This is my partner, Dust. - Nice to meet you. - Thanks for having us. - Here's my house. - Wow, it's nice, man. You live in beautiful green. I have the lemon with me for you. The original lemon. So you use the lemon to - Yeah. First of all, thank you for having us. - Ah, you're welcome. to meet and see you. I know we met one time before in Bangkok, on this amazing wedding. You remember? - Yes, I remember. we were talking. And then I went scouting in the north. And everywhere I come, I say, &quot;Yeah, this is from KD, this is from KD. He said, &quot;Well, who's KD?&quot; &quot;Yeah, he lives in Koh Tao.&quot; And I couldn't figure it out, you know? You're really a hero up in the north, eh? - I think it's everywhere in Thailand, because I send the seed I start to send the seed out. I felt that Thai weed has become bad. - And a lot of hermaphroditism he? - Only brick weed. - Yeah, brick weed from Laos. - Yeah. - So I want to have a good quality weed to smoke, myself. - I used to live in Europe. And then I came back to Thailand in 1986. And then when I travel, Like, from Jamaica, - Yeah. that really got you all this... Because you could try other &quot;Hmm, this, if I put it it would be really good.&quot; - And I can make it better. - And they will, become stronger, and then I send it out. - You know, it's not a dangerous thing. - Exactly. And it does a lot of - Of course, the people in the city, they still have something against it. - Yeah. it's drugs and bad. It's bad for your health. - But actually, - no problem. Like my cousin, one of And my grandma, I remember, make like from the leaf, with other herbs, for him to smoke and help stop asthma. - Did you ever thought at That it would go legal in Thailand? Did you think this would happen? - I already predict this. I told everyone 20 years ago. - Yeah, making the seed. - I said, &quot;In 20 years, I - And are you happy how it went? - Yes. - Yeah. I'm very happy because I've been to Bangkok so many times. Went in front of Parliament. - Oh yeah? Yeah, I heard that from people. You were the guy with the board - Yeah. - So you're a real activist. - Yeah. - And where you To the shops on the island or? - Actually, I don't really - No. Just making the seeds, and the genetics. Making medicine to give away. And that's made me happy, Making money is also, you need to, yeah? To live. But I don't seek for rich. - I wanna give you a little present, also. Look here, we're gonna make this one open. Because this is the original - Yeah. that you used for your breeding program. But this is the original mother. This is Ztrawberry one. - Yeah. This is lemon Orange. And this is indoor Mango haze. And this is the Fullgas. This is Dust's baby. Thank you so much, my brother. - Very nice meeting you. Thank you so much for this interview. - Thanks a lot. - Okay guys, it was a great day. Day three, on the way to Chiang Mai. In one of the best airports And we're gonna go there, we're gonna land in two hours, hopefully. Two and a half hours. And then we're gonna visit four big farms. And then we're gonna end also with a huge farm with And grow lots of our stuff, also. And he's gonna show us around, day three. Today. How long can you do without weed? - Oh, at least few minutes, you know. - Hello. - Brother. Good to see you, huh? - Yeah. - It's such a peaceful place. - Mmm. - Do you feel the - Yeah. - Yeah, they are much cooler than Samui. - And yeah, this is one of So it's was interesting to meet him. And also, he's got a lot of landraces. Maybe you can explain a little What did you make? - Satori, but from Nepal? - One strain, no hybrid? - Okay, so this is pure Nepal. Thai Mexico? - Really? Kilimanjaro, Tanzania. So everything here is crossed also, hm? - Mm, Blue Muffin. Blue Muffin and the- Like, I mean... - No. - You have seeds from that one? To swap, yeah? - That's a very nice one. Jarnoy! Brother! - Oh! You were hiding between the plants. - It's real? - Come back again? - Nice to meet you. - I told you we'd come back. - Sorry, bro. I've looked at you everybody on youtube for the last 10 years. - Beautiful. - Yeah, we made it. - And now you have your own career. - Yes! This real And the plants look really nice. - Good, huh? - Good job. - So, this is your place here? - No, he manages this place. He's the master grower here. So he's gonna explain to us a little bit what's going on here. And after, we're gonna where he grows with his father. - Nice. How long you grow? - I'm grow, uh. After 10 years. - I'm learn on university. - Oh, yeah? - No, no, I'm learn in Chiang Rai. - In Chiang Rai. to learn master degree. - Because my big farm talk - Yeah. - I ask to father, &quot;Hello, Father. Okay, I'm not want to learn.&quot; - &quot;I want to grow.&quot; - &quot;I want to grow.&quot; I told father, - So you stopped university? - Yes. - I don't want to master degree. - No. - Mmm. - And what father say? - Father say, &quot;What the fuck?!&quot; - So what you do? You keep one mother plant every time? - Yeah. with the lights? - You keep mothers here? - They clone. - And then grow there. And buy your seed strain - Internet. Love the Internet these days. the seed Strain Hunters so expensive. - Yes. - Because I think, the the seed for the good quality. - Yeah. - I don't know to the price. - But now for free. - Whoo, for real?! Ooh! Trophy. - Ah yeah, you win trophy with this one? - Yes. The best sativa in Chiang Mai. - Ah, yeah? Supreme Cream. - Supreme? - Cream. - Cream? This is your strain. This inside, Super Silver Haze. - Nice. Hey, and you have your own farm, no? With your father. We going there after. You gotta take us. Delicious. - Okay, let's go, guys. Let's run. - See you later. - How are you? - He left the ground down there, so the roots going into the ground. - This one big, huh? How does she take care upstairs? - Hybrid here, this one, eh? - Yeah, this one hybrid. - All hybrid. - The sun, and you're in In the mountain, you have This one is nice, also. Like, OG Kush. - Oh, this is - Definitely. 32 years ago, I was here with my daughter, she was three. And I was telling this story many times. There was the biggest roller in Chiang Mai. And guess what? 32 years later, I come back And it's now marihuana. Jarnoy! Broski! - Beautiful place. - Thank you, thank you. - So maybe you can show us around, eh? Here's where you guys make the soil, no? - This is Thai landrace. - Thai landrace. Seeds? - KD Koh Tao. - KD Koh Tao? - But here is KD. - This KD. This strain... - That's the red one from KD. - Mango. - It smells really good. Now, what do you have in here? - And this, wait till you see this. - What do you have here? - No, look here. - No. - Yeah, no, I, yeah, no. - Oh. And, yeah, he know, he come. - This is the real system. - Huh? - Perfect. So, what else can you show - Nice, they look happy. Are they? Oh yeah? You smoke 100 gram in one week? - Yes, one week. - Not dangerous? - Wow! - That's the most - Eh? - Oh man, beautiful. - A clone room on the water, guys. - [Dust] Man, I want an office like this. - How cool is this, then? - Powerfull, also, strong. - Mmm. - These guys can smoke bongs, it's unbelievable... - Delicious. - So what is your plan now What you gonna do next year? - Mmm. - Ah, in the future, I'm thinking of a cannabis shop. And a coffee shop. A little coffee shop, too. I want to learn with cannabis. And learn, too, my friend. I happy, my friend happy. Every people smile, I'm smile. My father smile, mother I'm okay. So we're going to go to the north and we're going to find some amazing landraisers. Two of them is Hang Karong and Tiger Tail. But we're going to be open for all kinds of surprises because there's like 20, 30 of landraces there. So when we have finished the north side, we're going to go a little bit more to the east of Isan We're going to go to Nakhon Phanom And there we're going to meet Prem, an old friend of mine. And she's, yeah, have a little dispensary up in the north there, which is amazing. And all the farmers come and bring the product there. She's a very good link for me and she's helping government and local people to grow and teaching them how to move on in this new cannabis world. So in the north, when we're going to arrive there, there's all kinds of different farmers. There's family orientated craft farms. There's the old commercial ones from the old days. There's new young guys popping up. So there's all kinds of people that we're going to meet , old school guys and new school guys in the industry. So the first people we're going to meet is Toppy and his father. They own a bunch of fields and they're going to be our guide and they're going to help us around and show us some landraces. Dust, come back. The owner of the field, the female grower. She's arriving. OK, maybe come say hello and then we walk with her to the field. How are you? Good? What's your favorite plant? She loves every plant. She likes all? And she likes the landrace more or the KD or she likes the hybrid more? The new strain is easy to have molt. So she said KD is better here. For the cross, yeah. And how many plants she grow here? More than 10,000. More than 10,000. Wow. Is this five rai right? Five. Five rai. And how many years is she growing? Two years. Yeah, yeah. I think she grow longer. She learn from my dad. All everything here I speak to my dad and my dad grow for five years. And maybe she see from my dad last year. OK, cool. She decide to grow here. Can she show us her favorite KD plant? Oscar, Oscar. Red hair. Look this one, how beautiful. Very nice. What about that red one behind it? This one. That one. The new one she bring here. The red hair is not KD. No. No. This is cross with KD also. Yes. You hear that? He said that the old black one is still a pure Thai strain. Oh, yeah? This one here? Black mango? Yes. Black mango. Like an orchid in the marijuana. Yes, it's from the same mango. Like this one. Typical one. That is beautiful. It's beautiful. Really dark leaves. Even here, look. Everywhere. Look. It's open to get the water and the air through man. Oscar, Oscar. Give me your hand. Look here. Put your hand up. Yeah, I was super excited also to see that great strain of the black mango growing in her field. We got some nice seeds from that. And you're looking forward to work with those. And then you can see again another landrace growing up here. There's so many that popped out in the last 30 years. So super excited to catch all those landraces. How did she start farming cannabis? Like she worked on my dad's farm. OK. She trimmed it before. And then she had her own land and she asked to put plants. Yes. And why weed? Why wheat? Because it makes a lot of money. Maybe I'm one of the people who love wheed here because of money. Because you grow corn, you grow chili, you grow potato. A lot of work also. A lot of work, yeah. But you don't keep your money. So it's more easy to grow cannabis than vegetables also. Yes, because I think the weather is the most perfect for cannabis also. She's not impressed. She's impressed? With the hand, eh? She thinks this foreigner is crazy. The secret chamber. Wow. Look at this, eh? See all the purple? Yes. On the right, purple. On the left, green. So you separate here because you told me you like the purple more. So the purple get more money, no? Yes. So what are we going to press now? This dry stuff there? Yes. So that's what you use, no? The leftover. Yeah, small flower and leaf and some stick. What's this? His brand. Family logo, KN? Not KD, but KN. His name, yes. So how many in one plate? One kilo. One kilo? For one brick. Wow. The logo, eh? KN, guys. How cool is that? KN. Put it in the plastic. Tell him to put a lot because we're going to take an airplane. Your suitcase. Oscar's suitcase. Good morning. Good morning, brothers. Mr. Pachan. How are you? Good? Thanks for having us. How are you? Nice. Beautiful field. Wow, thank you. Just next to the river. Looks KD, no? Cross? KD cross? From the green plants? KD just make it short. Make it shorter, no? And make it heavier. And how many plants in this field? What is this, one rai? Eight hundred. Eight hundred. How long he grow? Two years. Two years? He's a new grower. Yeah. You like it? Yeah. Good? He smoke? No. He do? Yeah. See? Can you show us his nicest plant in the field? This one here. It's very Thai. Wow. Super field, eh! This is probably going to be great smoke, this plant guys. Look at this, eh? Look here. If it finishes flowering. Oh, it smells so sweet also, eh? Smell a little bit of Hawaiian in this one also. Wow, look at this one, Arjan. Come. Wow, this is a crazy one. Look, full of foxtail. And airy. Oh, it smells good, man, this one. Yeah. Wow. It has also that Pringle smell. It's funny, there's something here that's sour and cream. It's in the foxtails. The phenol looks different. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, shit. Wow. Yeah, look, this one you can't use, you see? Like a haze or something? It's a banana. Oh. So, hermaphrodite. From the Thai inbred, yeah? Yep. You see, you have that problem a lot because the weed is really nice. Look. See all the foxtail? Crazy looking one, eh? This is great to smoke, but it's not good for breeding. Oh. How can we... Look at this pink one. How beautiful. Just ignore. Don't take the seed. Oh, foxtail. This is where a lot of inbred come because in Thailand it was so illegal. Yeah. And people used the same seeds and it happened a lot in the Thai. You see it also in America. Yeah. In America they have a lot of varieties, they think, but they come from a few lines. So, a lot of hermaphrodism in the American seeds, yeah? It's why Green House Seeds are so much better. This is a beautiful plant here. Look at this. This one dust just found in the field. Wow. And smell this one, hey? Smell this one. Oh. You see the difference? Yeah. And look at the color. So, I have some red from the male line, you see. This one smells so nice. Wow. Yeah, I stopped to smell this. This one, man. Smell this. Yeah, because it's the sativa line that you like. Oh, I love it. I saw some really sweet ones that are really nice too This one also. You should take seed of this one, yeah? Smell this. It's so different than the rest. It's a strong genetic. Another one from KD because it's pretty dominant. Mr. KD? Yes. He left a mark in Thailand, eh? This guy. Holy shit. Brother of Pachan, the next field we're going now. Yeah. And he said he brings some landrace, like a pure sativa. Pure sativa, right? Pure sativa. Pure sativa. So we can see now. Let's go. Nice field, eh? Here. You can see over here a whole field of KD. And here also landraces. But this is a Chiang Mai landrace, yeah? Much more sativa here in this field, eh? Look how beautiful. All big plants. That's strong, eh? That's a different smell again, eh? Man, there's so many different smells in these fields here with these landraces. Wow, you saw the crystals on this one here. I mean, there's some really frosty plants. Look how beautiful this plant is, guys. Here's some seeds, guys. There's some really, really nice plants here. Here, look here. Oscar. And the color of the hair also is very different. And look at the crystals on this one. And look how ripe the seeds are here. You can just take them out here. Look, they're ready. Look what a beautiful plant. Everywhere in the calyx is a seed. Look. Here. See that? Very nice. After we left to Chang Kong, we went to Chiang Rai Airport. We took the airplane to Nakhon Phanom. And there, my friend Prempavee was waiting for us. She's going to be our guide in this whole new area. Prem, how are you? Good job. Good to see you, darling. Ah, I'm happy to be in your province. So we came from the Golden Triangle straight to Nakhon Phanom, to your province to come and see your amazing landraces. So like the Hang Karong and many, many others. Are we going to have a dinner here together? Where are we going first tomorrow ? Which field? Si songkhram, Si songkhram? That special variety? You're going to bring us? You're going to guide us through Nakhon Phanom province? They didn't sent it to him. They didn't send him? He's the driver. They didn't give the address. Heiko, If you don't going to sit in the front... How can you have a driver without Google Maps? Like, really? What did you get? Ah, yes. Emergency. We're on the right place, right? What? Yeah, fuck. Oh my God. Let's get the hell out of here, guys. Let's get the hell out of here. Did you guys pay this shit? Fucking hell, man. This is what's happening right now. So we're going to drive an hour and find another hotel. Ciao. One of the great things we saw when we were passing by and sitting in the back of the pickup was that street where you see the Thai cannabis community totally emerging from this new situation. A lot of fields on both sides of the road. Great farms, great families. Super excited to see all this happening in Thailand. How are you? Sawadee ka Wow, this is a real coffeeshop guys. Look here. You sell big bags of landraces, small bag of landrace. Yeah, this is super nice. Look here. Hang Karong, look here. Here are the seeds. This is so authentic. Lemon orange. I know that name... Sounds fabulous, eh? You're going to show us the fields? How are you? Good to see you back. Thank you for coming. So here is his field, no? Well, he advises all those fields in the neighborhood. So he knows about all the landraces, the Hang Karong How do you say it exactly? Angolor? Hang Karong Is this one here? Yes. Can you show us? It smells more sweet. Yeah, it smells sweet. It smells like a lollipop. This one is a nice one, eh? Like the old school lollipop, the chupa chups. This is a good plant, eh? Yeah, it's strong also. And not so much seeds if you look compared to the tiger tail. At this moment we should cross with our hazes and see what happens. I like the smell. Yeah, it's a very nice smell. It's a little minty, no? It's a very nice smell. Yeah, it's a little minty, a little bit. So all here, Hang Karong? Everywhere. Let's try to find a really nice one. Wow, this is a real jungle, guys. I love walking in a place like this. This is one of them. Hang Karong and tiger tail. You can see, look here. There's these crazy tails. You can see them hanging here everywhere. That's why they call it the tiger tail. So everything they grow here, they make the Thai sticks of, guys. So this started in the 60s and the 70s. There's a deep province in the world where all the Thai sticks went worldwide. They became famous. It's a little piece of bamboo, put the weed around it, a little rope, and it came from everywhere. It came from Laos, came from Thailand, and became famous, like the Punta Roja from Colombia that went to America. So these were a few varieties that went, like, ballistic all over the world. Can you ask him what variety they're growing here? It's the Hang Karong? And how many years is this strain here? 30 years or 40 years ago, and then stop. And now start again about two years. And they stop because of the police? Yes. It was too much illegal. How does he think now about the regulation? Is he happy with the Thai new law? Not fair for small farmers. No, not fair for small farmers? What is the biggest problem? They make it for rich people, but for farmers, small farmers, not fair. Is it expensive to get the license or the registration? Yes, expensive to get license. And how much they have to pay for license? 50,000 baht. 50,000 baht, yeah. It's too much money. So also the Thai government promised them in the past that the fees would not be so high, so to protect all the local farmers there. So for now, the 50,000 baht, which is around 1,200 dollars, is a little bit too much for them. So let's hope the Thai government will adjust this and make sure that the local guys who grow land raises are protected for the future. See, three and a half kilo. Hello. Hello. How are you? Look at those plants. This is getting to be a real landraces. Nice, eh? Oh, nice, eh? Also here is Hang Karong What strain is he growing, Prem? Halso? Wow, this is a really nice plant. So he's grown 50 years, no? It smells good also. Long time, eh? What is the exact name of this one? What is the strain? It's very lemony also. Looks like a zest. Tiger tail? Is the regulation good for them that so many people are growing? Yes. For buyers? Okay, yeah, that's a problem. Sell product. That's why I was asking if it's too much, you know? Every house is growing. So, he's 50 years, eh? When did he make his first thai stick? When did he make his first Thai stick? You know, the original one. What year? 51. He loves it now. When he was born, he saw ganja, ganja, ganja. We made a knife-cut landrace joint. Look. What? It tastes like nuts, no? I don't know. What do you think? You feel very clean high. You don't feel nothing in the body. It's like very in the mind. It taste very interesting. What is he saying? What is he saying? I'm tired. Yes we know. Tired. Oh, what a nice field with the Mekong. Yeah, this is really nice, guys. You saw the river, the mountains. Look, tobacco plants. Killer plant, Prem. Kill you. Well, they seem to attract the insects. This one is legal, eh? And ours, still difficult. But changing. We are winning the war. Hello. Hi, boss. But don't he thinks this is much better crop to grow than tobacco leaves? Could kill a lot of people. Because this is a farmer, now he grows tobacco leaves and he called ganja. Don't you think it's much more better to grow ganja? Tobacco, he grow very easy. Don't take care, but this different. More work. Yes, not easy to protect. But it's more healthy for body. So tonight, guys, we're going to the amazing field that I find a few months ago. OG Growers and Fifteen rai, a lot of amazing plants there. So super excited to find some great seeds there. Hey, so, Prem, this is a big field of Fifteen Rai, eh? Yes. And what kind of landrace varieties are we going to see here? It's a beautiful field, eh, for the last day. Let's go have a look. This is the original, original, no? There's some good plants, but it looks like there's some, this looks like Tiger Tail also, no? They all look a little bit like tiger. They all have this bend on the end, you see? I think the tiger tail is just the most hermaphrodite, you know, it's always dropping pollen. So, Prem, in what area are we here? Si Songkhram And this is by far the biggest plantation I've seen in Si Dongkhram, no? Are there many like this? No, this number one. Prem, why are you doing this, and going around and buying all the weeds from everybody, and yesterday we were in your shop, where did your passion come from? I want to learn about ganja, because I start only two years. Only two years? Yes, but farmer, some farmer 50 years or 40 years, I want to learn about. How to do? Yes. And they help you good? Good. Yeah? And I want help them for make a market. Make a market. Make a good medicine for this amazing plant. Yeah, this one is really nice. It's missing a little bit of smell. Yeah. We need to find the same one with a little bit more smell. And we have a jackpot. On the other side of the road there's thousands of them. This plant is beautiful. Yeah. Let's try to get some seeds from here. It's the perfect structure. It doesn't have spider. Yes, the seeds are nice. Yes, we found it. Well, we've got a lot of seeds this trip. Yeah, and from different regions. We've got that lana, we've got that black mango. That was really nice. The Hang Karong Hang siam. We've got some really tropical taste. You know, that lollipop flower from yesterday was very nice. That's a great trip. And the best part is we can germinate all that right now in Mukdahan. Yeah. And start the selection. That's what we're gonna do. Right, here we have it. What strain? Hang Karong How much does it cost here? 2,000? 3,000. One kilo is 3,000 baht. Can we buy one kilo? It's 2 KG, it's good. We'll take the two kilo. What do you guys think? Thailand. Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Issan. Yeah. My favorite trip. Your favorite trip? Really? Yeah. From all 10? Yeah. Why? Because you don't have to walk so much. Because you can drive with the car into the field And the weather is amazing. In the beginning, a lot of high breeze. You know, you could see crosses because younger people now. But the deeper you go in the country and the older you see the growers, you know, more experience. Even though they don't say, you know, because they don't want to say it, but they probably grow already 30 years. They all grow 30, 40, 50 years. But you see, everything. Otherwise you don't grow like this. They know what they're doing. So tomorrow, guys, super excited. For me, one of the main days to show you guys around. We're going to our factory in Mukdahan, which is now the biggest factory in Asia. I'm going to introduce you to our partners. Pam was running the whole operation together with us. And her great father, Kun Virat, who had this amazing vision four years ago to start growing marijuana plants. and these people don't even but they saw the medicinal benefit of it and we saw the great and one of the best parts with the climate also. We're building this factory and we're now also establishing so super excited to show you this amazing GMP facility in Thailand. It is a milestone for us, you know, to establish one of the in the world. With so many rooms and so many breeding options, no one exists in the world, so this is the first one So, yeah, it's quite a to do this together with Kun Virat here. And yeah, very special because I've been waiting 40 years to build something like this. So, yeah, thanks to Kun Virat, 25 big rooms and breed for with Green House Thailand so very special moment in our life, man. So we're gonna offer this now. We just did the first so now we have some special - Everything to be - It's a foundation. - This is the first in - Whoo! We have cannabis in the building. More strong is more good. Okay. Okay, put it. Okay, okay. - Amazing! The future is here, guys. Nice. Looking happy. - Oscar, first seed plants coming in the seed factory. - Yeah. Super Lemon Haze, Velvet High Clouds, Aliens, King's Juice. - Hold on, new selection, original plants. - Yeah, original plants. So, these are gonna be the first drop of the best seeds in the world, guys. - It's four days now in the small pot so they're just coming and they're looking really happy in there. You see the wind. That's the wind. - We put off the ventilators. - I see that. Perfect, now they're gonna be strong. - We still have to do the reversal test 'cause we're gonna do - Yeah. - So we need to do that. That is gonna be great seed quality. Let's check this B10. Plants good? Happy? - Looking good this test with the small pots, man. - Nothing wrong here. They were exactly two months in the pots and there have been three weeks in flower. - So, five weeks pre-grow. - And three weeks flower, in the pot now. (grower speaking in Thai) - We're gonna harvest in four weeks. - So, in the merge with our Pam became our CEO. She is basically the spider in the web and yeah, it's going fantastic. Super, super knowledgeable, knows a lot. It's, you know, it's a and a lot of things 27 license, dispensaries, So, yeah, we're hands on, Pam. - Nice flowers. Whoa. - Hey, Pam How do you maintain this We're doing the growing and the marketing, but you have to do all - Yeah. Because this is a whole new it's probably the biggest We have like 125 people helping us out. How is that going on a daily base? - From the beginning, I think it's really hard to handle that, but we learn from you. Your advice is really good for us, so we can do everything as you lead us. - Yeah. we learned from that from last year, and then for this year, - Yeah. - Well, we are finalizing now. Last year we did a lot of hand watering 'cause we had a lot of different plants, but now you can see with the drips, it gets much more stable. When we came here 1 1/2 years ago, when we start planning, basically we did the How did you get all those people here? Because before we came it - Yes. a little bit hemp, no? How did you find all those people? - We find because they know so we would like to find the local ones. So they coming and they tell each other that we have factory here, - Yeah. - Yeah. - Well, I think it's also for us as a company to have to have 100 women here and I think is really, really good, so, yeah, we're super - We're happy to have - Thank you for this amazing opportunity, and after 1 1/2 years, - Beautiful. - Amazing - Man, you smell that sweetness? There's like that vanilla, like a sugar vanilla thing with apple. - Apple pie. Really deep, that's crazy. - You see how advanced - Look at this. It's only four weeks, huh? Look at this, four weeks plants, guys. So much resin with the Kun Virat had this amazing and establish this factory in 2018. Also when we met him and we joined forces in 2022 and international markets has been changed and he saw the medicinal so he decided to make and we are now ready to as a GMP product together with that is evolving all around the world. So, this is where we are stand now and this is probably the future of us here in Energrow and in Thailand. What is your favorite strain when you smell here and everything? - For me? - I follow my customer, huh? Full Gas. - Full Gas That's not the number one seller, eh? - Just for the win. - We sell more Lemon and Orange. - Yeah, we're talking best - How do you feel now how everything went in the last 1 1/2 half year now? How did it all go? Did it go smooth? In the beginning we had some, eh? - Now, it seem like we not go smooth. But we climb Now we already on the top only - Yeah. - That's a very good explanation. - Yes. - For me, it was very, very special when I met you the first time because it's rarely in our with such a passion for this plant. Where did your passion - Firstly, after our government allow us to have the license and we try to, because I came like the mining business. But after the government, they allow us to do, we had nobody to support for the all the factory When we growing cannabis, we thinking the first Green House Amsterdam. I had all of it in my head, we need to join, but for them only cannabis, not the hemp. - That's why we start to talking. - You know, and when we start we can do everything here. This is the first place in the world we can call it the University We can grow outdoor, we can grow polyhouse, we can grow indoor and we can grow GMP, which is quite rare. And on top of that, together, we're building this great genetic factory which will be ready in three months where we can start making all kinds of new hybrids for the world. - Our poly, compare with other, I think better than the indoor. - This is better than indoor. - They happy, yeah? Do you remember when we you can see when the plants talk to you. People think I'm crazy, yeah. But you can see, like you when plants are standing They are talking to you They give you an answer. If they're not happy, they These plants are speaking to us. - The first you tell me oh, most of this guy. - These guys smoke - They crazy, yeah. But now... they're really happy. - Yes, yes, yes. - So, here these These are THC trichomes. And basically, this shows so the higher the concentration the more THC it has. It's actually a defense mechanism of the cannabis plant And in this visual inspection, she's basically checking if from insects or from mold before it's prepared to be sent to the lab to do a full analytical test to be exported as a medical Look at this, guys. - Welcome to paradise. - Oh, you see - Four weeks. That's one of the LED room. - In Green House Seed Company, I had a very famous strain, which is called Arjan's Ultra Haze 2. It's a very old strain that I collected I think and it was actually an as you used to call it, but at that time nobody had any clue what was mango and whatever, and we just want to cannabis so we decided to call And then when we came back some people were smelling and said, &quot;Hey, this smells I said, &quot;Yeah, it's my U2, old U2.&quot; And then, yeah, we decided, It's all about Mango Haze. Okay guys, we're gonna go here on the right, your So let's see how it did on the HPS. But it's like just nine weeks now. - For me, the smell - Yeah, one of the best Let's go have and look, guys. - Aah! Ooh. - Wow. - You smell it already, yeah? I don't know how to describe that one. It's musky and... - [Arjan] And this is ready, huh? - Incense and spices and fruit. The resin production is, you see, it's also a little bit purple? - [Arjan] Yeah. How long are - Yeah, we're gonna finish- - We're starting the ninth. Hello, guys. Hello, how are you? - All right. - Good? So, guys, here we are into the lab pots and the JACP pots. So, we're gonna see the hash room, the drying room, and the storage room. Here it is, the heart of the company. Looking nice with all the sticks. That's where we dry all the and the outdoor flower. That's for all the Thai markets. So, yeah, the flowers It's like indoor quality, huh? Really amazing. So, we have the perfect conditions here. You see we can hang the plants there. We fit 60 plants on one rack. It's really good. You see the size of the flower, eh? - And they're hard also. - So here the flowers Then they go into those and they get trimmed when they Nice. Smelling good, eh? And so here also, that's where You see here, when they're the resin is falling from the flower goes directly into the trays and that's our dry seed Everything we have in the Coffee Shop is coming from those trays so it's not really an because you're not processing it, but we have really strict. We told them to not shake so it doesn't become green and you can see that the color is really glorious, so beautiful. Look at this. Can you follow that? - Okay guys, let's go to my favorite room. Hash room. - [Arjan] Oi, oi, oi. - So, for our favorite king, Lemon Orange dry sift. - Ah, thank you so much, Dust. - Angel of god. Look at this, guys. - Look at that, man, Kings Juice, Full Gas. All strain-specifics. - And here we have the dry sifts. This is our highest quality at the moment. You can see all the strains. - [Arjan] So, we have now dry sifts and pollinated from all our strains. - Yeah. and poly weed. - And my personal favorite. 'Cause with this stuff, - [Arjan] Ooh. - So, there's the dry also all the strain-specific, Velvet Moon, Chem Bride, Chemdog And look at this, huh, you see the color? How nice. We have all of them. We don't mix them, we keep them separate. some kind of gold, eh? Look at this. I saw you had some Hawaiian Snow, even. - Dry sift. - It's my favorite, man. - Oh, wow. When you open the pack, Franco's Lemon Cheese. When did you see a sativa hash? - No, never. - Who makes sativa hash? Nobody's making sativa hash. - Nobody in the world, guys. This is unique. - Look at that one, the color of this one. - Yeah, like I say, But look here, man, the Ultra Haze 2, the Mango Haze, guys. - You see it? - Beautiful. - Oh, look, how it changing. - Beautiful. - It doesn't exist in the world. This is the only product of - We have kilos of - I mean, man, who can You know, flower, dry sift, - And sativa. It's the only one in the world, yeah. - All license. - So, that's why Thailand in the world now to go on a great holiday. - So here, guys, is where we do the hash with the pollinator. That's a fridge room that minus 15, minus 20. We have the pollinator inside here and that's where we do so later we will paint put a nice working station for And here you can see a little bit of resin from the last days. So, here for example, the first quality, second quality, and third quality. You can see the difference, huh? You see how brown the first one is, then you get a little bit more and then you get the cheapest quality that is the most affordable right here. This is what we all want. You're looking great. So, here you can see for of what's coming, guys. So, this is fresh-frozen material. This is gonna be the highest end line. We harvest directed, so when the plant is fresh, before drying, we put it in those bags and then we put it in the freezer. So, you get the complete terpene profile, the complete cannabinoid. Oh, shit, it's sticky Wonderful. - Oh, yeah - So, you got really, You can see this is a living bud. It is completely fresh. And this is with what you for the best extractions and the best medicinal product also. So, yeah, this is really, this is something I'm looking forward to, because as a hash maker, and re-sifting it and the but what you really want You know, it's like if you're an activator and you don't have a good or your tomatoes and you want a good one and you want to make the best tomato sauce and I want to make the best tomato sauce. Northern part of Thailand tour. - Yeah. was a great trip. - And now we ended in Mukdahan where we see our first indoor - It's looking great now inside. - Yeah, nice. - Everything stepped up really - The poly weed looks like indoor. - Yeah, and look at this, man. - [Arjan] Time to go back to Bangkok and go give a party with Look at this, man. Chinatown is so vibrant. One of the best Chinatowns in the world. We have our shop right on like literally 20 meters. If you would've asked me the question, &quot;Did you have a shop in I would've declared you If you would've offered I would say no, not possible, And look now how smart the Thai government was to change this because this country is probably gonna be the to go on a holiday. It's like, look you around anywhere. Look, we're sitting right eating street food, and one of the best - This is crazy, yeah. Just on the sidewalk there. - We are gonna go now to, we First we're gonna meet him but now, 'cause they we're gonna drive to the Party Office where at 14:00 hours we're He was in charge of the which regulated cannabis in Thailand and we're gonna have a He's gonna explain a little And he's now Deputy Prime so we're gonna ask him a about the whole legal you know, let's see where that goes. It's quite unique we Let's hope it happens. And you know, ministers and fly away in the last moment, but let's see if we are to meet this gentleman who did such a great job in So, we thought you made it beautiful. Thank you. Remember, Minister Anutin, that you prefer to sit on this side. Okay, let us introduce ourselves. Heiko Hampsink and myself Arjan Roskam, we've been working in our advising the governments of South Africa, Argentina, St. Vincent, Holland, and five years ago we came to Thailand, on behalf of members of your party, and of the University of Bangkok. Anyway, I would also like you to thank you for all the framework you - People in this industry, speaking out more. This sector, to make it more attractive for our foreign friends. So, we introduce the, it's called health tourism. I've been one week in your hospital. - Where people can come for as well as enjoy traveling in Thailand as part of recovery period. - Listen, Thailand is to make this very, very wise decision, and we can only salute what happened here in Thailand because it's great for it's great for the Thai economy. - My party and myself will - Yeah. - It's being implemented and I hope if the people involved could demonstrate that actually generates positive results from using it correctly, people will go along with the law, and if there is anything when people gain confidence already, we can always amend the law - Well, we're helping a They're asking questions, and we're exchanging ideas, so it's all very, very great. Anyway, thank you very We really appreciate that. - Thank you. - Thank you very much for making time. Thank you so much. - We will try and help you. - My name is Hong Thai. I'm one of the partners I think it was in 2014 in and in 2017 we opened and in 2019 we followed where we flew in specialists to give an introduction to about the benefits of CBD and THC oil. Then covid hit, nothing happened, and then all of a sudden and yeah, the rest is history, you know, and now we're are probably of cannabis in Thailand. What you see with many to work on these joint to really enjoy the place, have a meal, look at certain things, Arjan is the person who and does a lot, you know, He's actually the first one works really late, and and then wake up the earliest guy. It's very difficult keep up with him. I remember working the It's probably the most I've And you know, it's a real and a hard worker he is and I is develop a workforce that can accommodate for I hope Thailand stays like this because it's an industry and good money to landowners, you know, commercial space owners and yeah, I mean, I can't tell you what but, you know, I think we're here to stay and we're here to make things better, not just for ourselves, - Yeah, we're here on Nuanchan Road, the end of our 14-day I think this probably was Many land races, many amazing characters. Golden Triangle, Thai We're here on Nuanchan What do you guys think? - Best trip ever. We saw the best sativas in the world. - Yeah, that's true. - We take the best food in the world. - Yeah. - Everybody been friendly with us. No one complain who smoke all day. I have 200 grams hash What the fuck happened this? - Okay, guys. best people. - This is the end of our Thank you for all Strain Hunter fans for watching this episode. See you next time. Okay, guys, next one, see Philippines, or somewhere else. - No, no, no. - Number two, Thailand is so good. - Fucking Pakistan? What are you talking about? Fucking bullshit. - Thailand 2, see you in Thailand 2. No? - What you doing talking about? That is leading yesterday in the crops. Never happened before. - The car can stop in the crop. He can basically film outside the windows- - You're talking my life. - Have to work, man. - Arjan say you get better so he said how to, he said for me to stay and choose the right genetics, choose the right way to Greenhouse have done probably more in Thailand with all the everything was on board with the government plan to and Arjan has really helped the people, so I cannot say anything You're like my father, you I'm so proud to be your son. I'm so proud to be your princes. My life changed when I meet you. I love you so much. Thank you. - So, Beer, especially it was an honor to have You were the first guy a year and the only person that came who was allowed to visit our factory. You were great, man, and thank for legalization here in Thailand and all your links. It was great to meet you and I think Thailand for all what you did in the last 16 years. You were a great grower. I hope your legacy goes through and this movie is in