Translator: Queenie Lee So, I have a little test for you. Don't panic. I'm not here to judge you. It's just a little test, OK? First, you get 30 seconds After that, you get 30 seconds And then finally, you get 30 seconds So, are you guys ready? Well, we're going to start anyway. So, memorize 10 words in three, two, one, go! OK. Stop. Now write down what you remember. OK, and stop. Now quickly check your answers. OK, and stop. Very exciting; I heard So I hope I didn't stress Now a moment of reflection. I'd like you to ask yourself, &quot;How did I memorize this, Now, for the generation being able to memorize something like this But nowadays, why would anyone You just take a picture of the screen, it seemed as if memorizing So why should we then, still want to get better at memorizing? Well, to answer that question, In high school, I flunked a grade, twice. After seven years of torture, Sweet, sweet freedom! What would I do with it? I didn't know. One thing I did know, however, was that I didn't want because that old learning business, it wasn't cut out for me. So instead, I went and there I worked as a bagger, So in a supermarket, I had to put people's groceries in bags, Surprisingly, that year I learned so much. I learned how to bag a bunch I learned how to drive a car. And in California, people are a little bit more open So I also learned how to have just for the hell of it. That year I discovered just the specific way of doing it. So I decided to go and study psychology. Now for the first time ever, I was getting information Now I was spending than I spent skipping school The only problem was that I was because I'd never learned how to learn. So I started experimenting of memorizing texts, and I got my reading time This way of studying to get my degree, and to fall in love with learning. And now I happily work in which we teach people We're trying to bring back into education Now for the past three years, we've also organized for high schoolers. We do this to show that everybody but also to show that memorization is about a lot more than just learning And today I'd also like So, in the beginning, I made you do this little test, just to make you aware Next, I'd like to give you This time you can even sit back and relax. So I'm going to ask you to close your eyes, Now, I want you to think and I want you to see him. Now, John just grabbed the sun and he just threw it on your feet. And now your feet are getting because John just Now you look to your knees, and on your knees, you see very strange sight. And on their shirts, you can see in brightly so you have some Knicks on your knees. Next, you look to where your thighs are, but they're gone. Your thighs have been replaced They could be Ford Focuses Your thighs have been replaced with Fords. Now, with your bottom, you feel a hard plastic seat With your bottom, you feel Your belly starts rumbling very loudly. So you follow your belly, and there Ronald McDonald with a ray gun. Ronald McDonald is shooting rays of light He hits you on your chest, and now from your chest, A huge bush of gray hair So obviously, you hurry home and on your doormat, you see a letter. So you open it and it has good news. As you read it, you feel a huge weight A huge weight falling off your shoulders. Your shoulders get all light and tingly Big bills, little bills, each and every bill has been paid for, Now you proceed to the bathroom, because now on your neck, a bunch of tiny bushes On your neck, a bunch of tiny bushes As you look in the mirror, suddenly your mouth and it's saying, &quot;Yes, we can; Now you turn around, because Donald Duck with a trumpet made of pure gold. Now you can open your eyes again Luckily, it's a lot safer here So, I just made you guys memorize the past 10 presidents in the right order. Now I'm going to show you, and then you can see So with each body part, I'm going and then you could think of it. Even better would be Now, what happened to your feet? John threw the sun, yeah - (Laughter) Now, what happened on your knees? OK. So what were your thighs Fords - President Ford. OK, and what did you feel OK, President Carter, yes. Some people are ahead of the game. Now, your belly led you to McDonald's; what happened? OK. Ronald McDonald shooting rays of ... So Ronald Reagan. He hits in your chest, and you got what? Big bush of gray hairs - Bush senior. (Laughter) Now, your shoulders got light, why? Paid all your bills - Bill Clinton. Now, what did you have on your neck? OK, a bush of thin blonde hairs. Bush junior. What was your mouth saying? &quot;Yes we can&quot; - President Obama. And what happened to your eyes? Yeah, Donald Duck, trumpet, pure gold. Who else but Donald Trump? So, if you memorized more this time OK. So we have almost that's awesome. Now, if you think this way of memorizing please stand up or remain standing Oh whoa, now we almost have everyone. I'm very pleased to see this. OK. You guys can sit back down. Thank you very much. Now, when you make suddenly it becomes a lot easier. If you tie these bizarre images like your body, suddenly memorizing things in order OK. Well, cool. But I asked you guys in the beginning, &quot;Why should we, in today's day and age, still want to get better Well, because by getting better you can also get better the skill of experimentation. By experimenting with different I found out that I can I found out what works What if I'd never learned I may have never gone back to school; I may have never enjoyed and I probably would not because one of the things I thought Now, there are people of every generation that they might even be great at because they think they can't do it. So how beautiful would it be if in schools we can teach kids and they can even get better But not just the kids, because the older generation But they're not too rusty. Anyone can improve themselves and I hope you experienced that today. Now at Remind, we break up this process the check, the experience The check is all about becoming aware So maybe during the first test, that you just repeat and that that doesn't work too well. The second step: the experience is all about being open So maybe during the visualization, you realize that this works a bit better And the third step is the experiment. This is about taking something and applying it in your own life So, maybe you're one of those people that when someone you just immediately forget their name. Yeah, sound familiar? And you want to use visualization So far I've only taken you guys The final step is up to you. So when I'm done here, and to write down an experiment and to put that By continually following you discover what you're doing; you keep yourself open and you allow yourself And regardless of what you're learning, be it memorizing you'll get better not only in the skill but you'll get better And that's something that sticks. It's something you could take with you your new relationship, your new whatever. So this is something and I believe we should But let's not just wait for it I also believe that the most important It starts with you. So, go out there and experiment. Learn something new or a new way of approaching something old because there are few skills Thank you. (Applause)