Vanessa: from speakenglishwithvanessa.com, and today I hours. If I asked you what're you listening Would you not know how to answer? Maybe your get sweaty and you would think, I don't know. in the next two hours you are going to master topics, because today's lesson is so epic. I have 44-page free ebook with all of today's sample to help you be able to use today's lesson to the confidently, so you can click on the link in the This took a lot of work to put together, so please on the link to download that free ebook today. topics, so let's get started with the first one, most common questions that you can ask and you do it. The first common question that you can ask anything good lately? What's happening at the word like, have you been watching anything sometimes we start questions with just you. You You've been watching anything good lately? A similar variation of this question is this question is, what have you been watching? watcha because you sometimes changes to cha. you in spoken fast English, so you can say And someone might say, &quot;Oh, I haven't really busy.&quot; Watcha been watching? Another common can add a TV show that's really popular at Stranger Things is very popular right now. So Things? And you're hoping that they'll say yes I have a little secret, I hardly ever watch out of my element. It is not my strong suit and TV shows, so this is for you, not for me. you might ask this question, is that the one you know about that TV show or movie. So you and the fighter jets?&quot; &quot;Oh, Top Gun, yeah, it could be a person, is that the one with Tom is that the one with fighter jets? Is that the it's anything that you know about it and If you don't know anything about the show you can ask what's the premise? What's the what's the story about? And it's about the storyline. So if someone asked you, would you be able to explain it quickly? and he goes over to another country and he finds to solve it.&quot; You need to be able to explain way when someone asks you, &quot;Oh, I haven't heard of Our final common question about movies out? When's the new Toy Story coming out here? that's what this phrasal verb to come out means When will the new Toy Story be released? When question to ask. Now let's talk about some common about movies and TV shows. Indie, indie usually It's not from Hollywood, it's not from a big Maybe it's something about your city or something So you might say, &quot;Captain Fantastic is one of it's a feel good movie. This is pretty feel stressed. It doesn't make you feel So you might say, &quot;My favorite feel good movie of It's a coming of age movie or it's a coming of age who is a teenager or maybe like a 12-year-old, So it's the story of them becoming older and more So you might say, &quot;One of the most classic docuseries, or you could say it's a documentary. a documentary is usually just one. But you might the fall of the Roman Empire. It was fantastic.&quot; To binge-watch or to binge. Originally, this They binged and now they're feeling really sick, movie streaming and TV show streaming, especially into watching series after series, after series, all night because you binge-watched your favorite just binged the entire series of The Great British night. Oops.&quot; To be really into something, this in it, but a cool way to say it is, I'm really into murder mysteries these days. Do you have any me. Those types of things freak me out and scare A movie buff or a film buff, you could say, &quot;My rather read the book.&quot; Talking about books, this better. Have you ever watched something after you felt just disappointed? You might say, &quot;You know books were better.&quot; A series finale or a seasoned night? &quot;I can't believe how it ended.&quot; This is the highly awaited and people are anticipating it, and Dubbed or subtitles, I'd rather watch a foreign I'm curious, what's the case in your country when for example, do they show subtitles in your When you dub the voices, it means that someone you can't hear it. In my mind, this is such a listen to the original language. And if you're You want to be able to hear English. And if that's okay. But if someone dubs the voice, all. I'm curious, what's it like in your This next phrase is one that my friends say to Godfather. It's a great movie. Well, I haven't not a secret anymore. I have seen some movies, which is amazing. So if you have not seen The &quot;I can't believe you haven't seen The Shawshank recommend.&quot; If you watch a movie or TV show you might say, the... ruined it for me. The storyline ruined it for me. The premise ruined it for me. I can't believe that the season finale was Maybe you don't like something because it when I watched the movie Inception, it was hard is not at that level. It was hard to follow, this going on. And you can even use this expression for let's imagine that you are sitting in a university and it's just too fast. You might say, &quot;Oh man, was hard to follow. You just couldn't understand hard to follow. Our final expression, I don't want you loved the TV show or movie, you might say, &quot;I you can imagine what this is like if you're I want to see what's happening. And your body you might be a little fearful to figure out your seat because whoever wrote this story had to figure out what's going to happen. I was now that we've talked about the most common movies and TV shows, now I would like to husband Dan and I, where we talk about movies and questions that you just learned. I want it will be your turn. We are going to have so let's watch this conversation with Dan. And Hey Dan, you watched anything good lately? Dan: I just started a new show. I like it so much. Vanessa: Dan: of a coming of age sci-fi adventure story about Vanessa: I think I've heard of that show. Is that Dan: that's the one. I can't believe Vanessa: I read the book and I think the show would just Dan: that's true, but I was on the Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: now it's your turn. Let's imagine that we work around during our break time. I'm going to ask casual chit-chat conversation about movies and conversation topic, so I want you to reply to and repeat this section, please do that. It's a one needs to listen to you unless you want them use what you've just learned. Are you ready? All I'm thinking about watching a movie this Oh, what kind of movie is that? Oh, Thanks for the recommendation. so I always like hearing what other people Congratulations on talking about the movies with sickness. Unfortunately, this happens to everyone sickness in English. Let's go. All right, about health and when you're feeling sick, do you so good, do you feel okay? I saw you fall, are questions when you suspect that someone is not this question a lot with my sons when they fall or them emotionally for a moment, I often ask them, your stomach, your head? Where does it hurt? Do If you saw me walking around the streets not to ask me. &quot;Hey Vanessa, I'm glad to meet you, but you want to sit down? Here's a bench.&quot; Oh, I would it? If I told you that I had a headache, you anything for it?&quot; And it means, have you taken your fingers? Can you walk? This is sometimes would use. When I was a kid, my parents said It's a good way to see if they're capable of doing feel like, oh, I can wiggle my finger. I'm okay, This is lovely, you're offering to help. Can maybe a hot pad to put on your back because it I bring you anything? Our final question is one you?&quot; Maybe if you're feeling a fever coming and if you don't have access to a thermometer to you?&quot; And they'll probably put their hand on assess roughly if you feel hot, which means you All right, let's talk about some common sick. I feel dizzy. Those flashing lights had the stomach flu last week and this week I'm but it also means that maybe your stomach doesn't feel like you're going to throw up. I took I feel nauseous. Notice the pronunciation nauseous. I hope you don't feel nauseous. I especially if you've been sick or you have going to feel just achy all over. I feel when they're wet or sweaty but it's kind of I feel fatigued or lethargic. And this means you swimming through the air. I just can't do anything expressions about how you feel. You might say, &quot;I not feeling well. I feel a little bit under the I think I'm going to cancel our get together. This means I don't feel well. And ironically, But overall it just means I don't feel well. I think I'm coming down with something. To getting sick, you're getting a virus, or I think I'm coming down with something. It's today. And if someone else is sick, you or I hope you feel better soon. Both of these that you care. Get well soon or I hope you feel through some vocabulary of some common problems or I have a headache. Can you please turn you should probably stay home. I fell blurred vision. I should probably call the I have swelling all over my finger. I think I I always have a stuffy nose or I always have all of the flowers are blooming, I always have a better, but I still have a little cough. I still in your country, but here in the US if you have COVID, but if you cough in public, everyone says, maybe you're coughing because of COVID. But in cough but it's still in our minds and we're still and it hurts to talk today. I have a muscle cramp Notice that the C in the word muscle it's just muscle. My muscles are sore or I have a allergies. I have a family history of... This is the doctor wants to know what your parents or had problems with. They need to know that to I have a family history of diabetes. I have phrase this is, diabetes runs in my family. We're about something that's gone from generation to have this problem. So we might say, allergies Next, let's talk about some common vocabulary you know. I jammed my finger playing basketball twisted my ankle and now it's swollen. I broke my back trying to pick up that heavy box. I cut kitchen. My son tripped and skinned his knee. This it just means that a layer of skin has especially on their knees or the bottoms skin your knees or skin the palm of trying to pick up that heavy box. Now I I pulled a muscle. If you are a parent, this toe on my kids' toys. Maybe that means we need ever stubbed your toe you know it doesn't feel you might go to the doctor and the doctor might you to take some medicine. I have a headache often sometimes say, take my medicine. So you it's three o'clock. Or you might say, take I need to take a Tylenol. I need to take an that you might take if you have a headache, and it's not a major injury, you might take I feel hot. I think I need to take my temperature. couple of days. This means rest and relax. We not sick just to say goodbye. You might say, mean that they should lay on the couch because Have a relaxing weekend. Take it easy. A very use this when someone's sick. Hey, you should this weekend. Just stay on the couch and try the doctor told me I need to get a lot This could be water, it might be soup, it in our bodies. The doctor told me I need to everywhere and get other people sick. In the US saying tissue. But it's the same thing. You can blow my nose.&quot; But a lot of people say, &quot;Can you I cut my finger, I need to get a bandaid. A use for a generic item. So you could say very serious. Like you have a big cut, only But if you have just a small cut, you can use a bandaid solves many problems. If there's just a bandaid can always help. If you have a bigger hope I don't need to get stitches on my finger. I When I was in high school, I broke my wrist hard and it helps your broken bone. For me it was and to be able to heal, you might need to get you need to make an appointment or make a give you a more professional assessment better It's a good idea to make an appointment. bit under the weather. I think I need to the doctor. These are all ways to say, I how are you feeling? We just covered a lot can use in your daily life. Now it's time Dan and I are talking about sometime that me. Listen for all of the key phrases that you it's going to be your turn to speak with me and Morning. Dan: Vanessa: so hot. I woke up this morning feeling Dan: you want to lie down? Have Dan: ... no. Do you want to lie down? Vanessa: but I think I'm going to call Dan: you do. Why don't you lie down on the Vanessa: some more fluids, so some hot tea would be great. Dan: you took care of me when I cut it's my turn to take care of you, so take it Vanessa: Okay, are you ready? I'm going to be and I want you to use what you've learned today conversation. If you need to pause this video so great. You can do that. That's the benefit review this section again and again. Are Hey, you don't look so well. Are you feeling okay? Have you taken anything for it? Well, you should take it easy and get All right, I hope this helps. Get well soon. Congratulations on talking about sickness better. Let's move on to a lighter topic, which All right. Let's get started with some of the when talking about music. Question number one is, is a reduction of the full question, &quot;What are cha with a question. So we can say, &quot;Whatcha &quot;to? Whatcha listenin' to?&quot; You might ask you hear some music, so you could say, &quot;Hey, car. Whatcha listenin' to?&quot; And they'll If you're listening to some music but you don't this? I like this song. Who's this?&quot; Of course, contexts, but here when we're talking about this song. I want to listen to it again. Who's you might ask, &quot;What type of music do you like? talk about all of the different genres or types preview, you might say, &quot;What type of music do you on the top of the charts these days, that's If you've ever listened to Spotify, you've group of songs that have something in common. be songs that have a common theme or similar to &quot;Did you make this playlist? Did you make this playlists himself, so all of the playlists to different activities. Maybe they're for the All of these different things can be included For me, I never listen to the radio, but &quot;What station is this? What station is this?&quot; When this is kind of like channels. We call it a listening to it, &quot;Oh, I like this. What station your own. &quot;Have you ever seen them live?&quot; Who do if we were talking about a group that you like and means have you ever been to their concert? concert?&quot; But it's more common to say, &quot;Have not in a video, but in person. &quot;Oh, &quot;Have you heard the new song? Have you heard not a huge Taylor Swift fan, but I know she's a &quot;Have you heard the new Taylor Swift song? I singer or group that you like and you're talking Let's imagine that you're talking with someone And it turns out that they like the same music too. Do you have any recommendations?&quot; People love so this is a great question to ask. too. Do you have any recommendations?&quot; And I'm Now, let's talk about some common phrases that we like. But first, let's talk about some genres Take a look at this. You might say, &quot;I like pop alternative music, classical music, jazz music, of genres, but these are probably the most common. have trouble describing what you like, well, You can describe how the music &quot;I like music that's energizing and makes you're talking about that feeling inside of you Some common descriptions of music that you I like music that's got a good beat. I like that's relaxing.&quot; These are all wonderful And what if you hear some music that you love? expressions that you can use. You might say, &quot;Oh, means make it louder. &quot;Turn up the volume. I I love this song. This is my jam.&quot; This is a but I use this. You are welcome to use this is my jam. I love this.&quot; Or you so catchy.&quot; It's so catchy, that means Just like this next expression, &quot;This song always If it's a song you like, well, cool, it's stuck in day. You're saying a couple lines of it in your have stuck in your head, this often happens &quot;That song has been stuck in my head all day. I say, &quot;I like this song. It's got a great beat.&quot; got some good rhythm. That's what the word beat Maybe if it's got a great beat, you might I hear this song, it doesn't matter if I'm if I'm listening to music as I'm walking around Our final expression for music that you love, been listening to that song all day. I've had this pronunciation, usually when we say the that's emphasized. &quot;Can you repeat that, please? &quot;I have it on repeat,&quot; both of those words are the same, repeat. &quot;I've had that Before we go to our sample conversation and your section. What if you play an instrument or what phrases that you could use to talk about that? and you can include in your daily conversation. so I've always looked up to Ray Charles,&quot; for idol or someone who you really think is awesome, really look up to Ray Charles. I play the guitar, If you have a dream to play an instrument or &quot;I really want to play the flute not perfectly. This is just a sample want to play the flute like Vanessa.&quot; Notice play the plus the instrument. &quot;I play the Let's take a look at the last so I would love to play the trumpet like Louis incorporate an idol or someone that you really your motivation for learning an so I would love to play the trumpet like Louis Okay, it's time to see all of a conversation. You're going to take a look Dan and I, where we talk about music. Listen because after this sample conversation, it's practice talking about music in English. Hey, Dan, what are you listening to? Dan: great new band I saw live this weekend and I can't Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: Have you heard the new Fleet Foxes song? Dan: It's been on repeat all weekend. Have you Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: I'm always happy to share music Dan: Vanessa: turn. I'm going to be asking you a question. just a chit-chat, and I'll ask you a question I will pause and it'll be your turn to the good news is this is a video. always go back and repeat this section, because it's a good way to grow your confidence. Hey, I'm making a playlist. Do you have any music Oh, that's interesting. What Oh, very cool. Why do you like that type of music? That's awesome. Well, thanks for the wait to listen to it and I'll see you later. Bye. Great work speaking with me about love. Let's speak together about love. Let's go. Let's get started by talking about some common If you are walking down the street with &quot;How long have you been together?&quot; This means &quot;How did you meet?&quot; This is the question that and it's not, &quot;Where are you meeting right now,&quot; they're asking, &quot;Where was the first place that &quot;Oh, we met at school,&quot; or &quot;We met at a a turtle for Halloween.&quot; There might Another fun question is, &quot;Where the location of your first our first date was just to a restaurant. I like this one. &quot;How did you know that he was one?&quot; This means that this person is the most married or you already are married or you're just one. How did you know that he was the one? Well, but a common expression that you might you know.&quot; It's this feeling you have inside Another fun question about love is, &quot;Do you go on a date and your friend asks you, &quot;How was in love at first sight? Because I think I'm in that is love at first sight. And your friend &quot;Is it true love?&quot; This means a real, simple or puppy love, like we'll talk about in Hopefully not after the first date, but &quot;Well, when's the wedding?&quot; And they little joke. Maybe you're not engaged yet, to get married to that special person, &quot;When's the wedding or what's going to happen All right, let's go on to some common phrases that expressions are types of romantic love. We're the most serious. The first most shallow one puppy love. Sometimes, we use this to talk their first love interest. This is a we might say, Oh, young puppy love.&quot; And the Sometimes, we use this to talk but you can also use this to talk about a &quot;When I was younger I had a crush on Johnny unrealistic, but it just was something that was in we might say, &quot;It wasn't love it for sight, Love at first sight, have you ever you might use the next expression, which is head in love with him right away.&quot; Wow, that's a can't keep your balance because your love is so just in this whirlwind of love and emotion. And once you move beyond puppy you might say now it is true love. &quot;Our love can make a comparison. &quot;It's something what we have is true love.&quot; So romantic. And Serious is sometimes a word that we don't really but this is a common phrase that we use to to a long-term relationship, either Your friend might ask you, &quot;Oh, are you getting quality of your romantic relationship. you've been on three, four dates Or maybe it's something that's &quot;No, we're not getting serious,&quot; or &quot;I think Our next category of expressions to talk about we'll talk about some verbs to describe romantic Personally, I use cheesy all the time. Let me give relationships, and when I say relationships, &quot;My boyfriend and I wrote long letters to each what? I loved it.&quot; You can get the sense here that kind of makes you feel like, &quot;Oh, that's a little you know what? When you're in love, it's something The next one's a fun one, lovey-dovey. display of affection. Sometimes, we call this PDA. in public and kissing each other, we might say, could be true as well. You might say, &quot;We're not care for him.&quot; And that's just kind of personal Next, I want to tell you some pet names about our romantic partner or to address our you might call them or you might say this babe.&quot; You might say honey, hun. This is my about it in just a minute. You might say also I want to tell you, I often call Dan my say just hun. Instead, I often say, &quot;Hey, hun,&quot; calling to him. So I might say, &quot;Hey, hun, where &quot;Hey, hun, where are you?&quot; And my child, my son back and said, &quot;I don't know where hey hun is.&quot; he thought this was one expression that I used You can really use any of these, but I do want in the US, if a stranger says sweetheart or they're trying to make fun of you. Let me referring to a woman. Let's imagine that she's about to put gas into her car, but she pushes the wrong button and she uses the gas pump might look over and say, &quot;Hey, Well, it's not really something correct word sweetheart kind of to importantly, you're doing.&quot; It wasn't a very polite expression, it's not a problem. Now, this is very different sweetheart are used by strangers in a positive on the bus and the bus driver saying, &quot;Come on, that's so kind. That's so sweet.&quot; The way he said with a kind of kindness. This is a cultural but if you're saying it to someone Finally, before we get to our conversation we use to talk about love. The first one is a your stomach. Have you ever been in love and you to describe? It kind of makes you feel maybe all at the same time. You might say, &quot;When I stomach.&quot; We can imagine a butterfly fluttering feeling of discomfort but excitement at the same that's similar to this in your language? I other insects, and have really colorful ways nervous love. Let me know in the comments Have you ever heard this in a fairy tale, &quot;To live there are never any difficulties or problems. so we might use it in real life like this. would live happily ever after, but the reality we're comparing this fairy tale idea that roses and rainbows and happy, and relationship with someone is a lot of work. We In our final phrase, our final verb to talk about a very romantic phrase. We might say, &quot;My husband forward to growing old together,&quot; and this implies are old and we will live through all of life this is a phrase that you might hear in someone's say, &quot;I look forward to growing old with you,&quot; All right. are you ready for our conversation all of these key common phrases, and add them up a sample conversation between my husband, Dan and how many years we have been together? You'll find after that conversation, it will be your chance asking you some questions, and you need But before we do that, I want you to watch the Hey, hun, I have a question for you. Dan: good question. I don't know if everyone Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: Dan: in my stomach the first time you talked to Vanessa: that's so sweet. How did Dan: Vanessa: Dan: you? Do you think we'll live happily ever after? Vanessa: hope so. We've known each other for 19 Dan: Vanessa: All right. So now you know the answer. We have now it is your turn. I want you to practice and remember everything that you've learned from and then I'm going to be quiet. I'm going to pause section as many times as you need to to gain and out into the real world and talk about love. All I want to hear about your romantic partner, your partner or your spouse. Tell Oh, well, tell me, what was your first date? Thanks for sharing. Now I want to know, Vanessa: so sweet. Thank you for sharing with me. I hope that you live happily ever after. Great on to our next speaking topic, which is and that is the weather. No matter where you so you need to be confident talking Let's get started by talking about the most common an extremely common small talk conversation so I want you to be able to use them comfortably today? What's it like out there today? It's a great question for asking what's the weather, but the weather? What's it like out there today? I think it might. So grab an umbrella. personally always checking my weather app especially at this time of the year because Is it supposed to storm later? Yeah, we might to storm? Now, usually we use this verb to pick up my kids from school every day at but sometimes we use supposed to in these Just means is it going to storm later? And it's Have you checked the weather or have you checked looks like it's going to be a nice day. If you always are going to be wanting to check and you look to see what the weather is. No, weather app or maybe the weather on your TV, to say that word forecast. Have you checked the For me, it is extremely unpredictable these and some days it's like a summer day. What's like to do when the weather's hot? Usually when in some water. Coming soon is summer, so of activities. What do you like to do when when the weather is cold? For me, I like to and then come back inside and drink some hot tea. And finally, a great small talk day today? And here it's a rhetorical question, you're not really expecting them to say so beautiful. So you probably already agree and this is a great spring day. Isn't it a beautiful that we've talked about some common questions about some common phrases that you could use to It's out, it's freezing out, it's gorgeous out. but you can fill in the blank with a lot make sure that you wear a coat. It's really using this to talk about a huge rainstorm when wow, it's really coming down. Beautiful phrase. wintertime. In the winter, I like to bundle it's rainy, I always try to grab an umbrella. figure out how to survive extreme weather, cold or Wear layers. This is essential in the wear layers so that your body stays warm when you can feel cooler as the day gets warm. the mornings it's chilly. In the afternoons You might wear a T-shirt, then a long You're preparing for all seasons because Now during the summer, you don't need to bundle you might say it's a scorcher. Sometimes we you burnt. I scorched it. But we can also use it you walk outside and the sun is beating down, actually be getting burnt. So you might say it's a warm weather person, or I'm a cold weather What type of weather do you like? It might be the very different. For me, I'm a warm weather person. extremely cold, that's not for me. I'm not a cold And finally, if it is a wonderful day outside, perfect fall day. It just makes you feel so good. of fresh air outside and you can think it's a we've practiced some common questions and answers now I want you to see a sample conversation to have a little chitchat using some of the I want you to watch this conversation and it's going to be your turn to have weather. All right. Let's watch. Hey Dan: day out there, but it's supposed to rain later. Vanessa: Dan: was going to be sunny all week, but now it says Vanessa: I'll grab a jacket in umbrella. This time of year Dan: a good idea. Don't want to get caught in the rain. Vanessa: was caught in a snowstorm without my winter coat. Dan: doesn't sound fun. Well, I'm going to go grab Vanessa: good. Well, nice to see you. I'll see you round. Dan: Vanessa: a conversation together about the weather. I'm to pause and while I pause I want you to speak be listening to you, no matter where you live I can hear you speaking. So make sure that you welcome to go back and review this section as started? Let's do it. So tell me, are you a warm I would love to know if I were what kind of weather should I plan for? That sounds great. Now tell me what do you thank you for telling me. I hope that I can speaking with me about the weather. Let's move you live, your house, your apartment in your questions and answers about chores. Look at this this correctly and it means things that you need So let's start with some of these questions Do you need a hand? Remember this question I reply to this question with? You can say, &quot;No hand? That means can I help you? If you're doing do you need a hand? Or you can ask, can you give something that's really heavy because you're to ask for some help or ask for a hand. Could the other person will say, sure, I'll help you. out the trash? Do you mind doing the dishes? please, I need some help. There are so many chores for me? And hopefully the other A similar question is, can you help me tidy you help me take out the trash? And sure, I would love to. If not though, I'm sorry.&quot; Hopefully they don't say that but especially if you live with kids, it's important taking care of the house. So someone might ask to help with chores?&quot; And if you're like me, you my kids' favorite weekend day is deep cleaning every corner, every chair, and they love it. so you might need to reply to this question, you might say, I hate doing the dishes. I get so All right. Our next category are questions Because your house is not just the things it's also the location. And we often ask of your house. So let's talk about some of these where you live. If you see someone in your you might ask this question, have you lived might say, I'm new to the neighborhood. This could be an answer that you give If you move they say, &quot;Have you lived here long?&quot; You can use Italy, I moved here from Japan. Great answer. that you know the answer to if you move to an have you been here long, they will follow what made you choose to move here? They're basically asking you, why are you here? you need to have an answer for why did you decide &quot;I got a remote job that let me I've always dreamed of living in the Now if you've just moved to a new neighborhood, questions about the place that you just moved. this neighborhood?&quot; This is a great question. a great little park to go to. They might say concerts in the park. You should come.&quot; Wouldn't another question you could ask when you move to a that I should check out? Maybe other cute local culture and they might say, &quot;Yeah, there's through,&quot; and you're getting some recommendations Now when you move to a new place, especially if some renovations, even if it's just decorating comes over to your house, hopefully they will So you might hear something like this, I love by yourself? When they say what you've done with or decorations. Wow, this old apartment used to what you've done with the place just looks so say, &quot;Yeah, I love fixing up places.&quot; Cool. &quot;Wow. That's impressive. Was it a lot of especially if you've had to do some major Yes, this house was a fixer upper, but it. A fixer upper means it's a house that but there is a lot of work that needs to be are so small and the walls are all old and to maybe open up some spaces. This house is a less expensive and it means that you get All right. Now that we've been through some inside the house and the neighborhood speaking. But first you're going to listen Dan and I. We're going to be using the same in a little sample conversation. I want you answers and be preparing yourself because after speak with me. All right. Let's watch the sample Dan: just finishing up some renovations on the house. Vanessa: you've done with the place. Have Dan: replaced the flooring and I renovated the kitchen. Vanessa: great. So what made you decide Dan: I really like the old homes in this Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: did you enjoy that sample conversation? Now it you some questions and then pausing. During that question. And because I have magical teacher world no matter where you are. So make sure that back and repeat this segment of the video as many need more time to be able to speak or think about Let's do it. Hey, I haven't seen you before. to move here? So what do you think is the best Well, it was really great to meet there are free concerts in the park every you like to join me? All right. Great work talking with me about where you different living situations around the world. this lesson is slightly different, but you are speak with me and use those speaking muscles Let's get started with the beginning of the daily life too. If I'm lucky, first thing push snooze and get up slowly. But if I'm not &quot;Mommy,&quot; and I have to get out of bed. First times. The first time was at the beginning of that you don't add first of the things or first morning I hear my alarm. Or we could use it at I might say, &quot;I wake up and make coffee Actually for me, I don't make coffee. coffee. I always make tea. I'm quite clueless when it comes to coffee. but I could say I wake up and make tea first part of my morning. After I'm awake, I head to Sometimes my kids and I read a book or play a our house is a morning person. Sometimes at least bed. So having a little bit of fun lightens the Do you know what a morning person is? A morning start the day. Are you a morning person or maybe a little bit metaphorical. There's not really a but it means that you wake up grumpy, maybe a &quot;I woke up on the wrong side of the bed Then after breakfast, I drop my son Theo off can be used for people or for things. So son Theo off at school or we could put it but we could also drop something off. I dropped you don't forget the word off because if you just it means your computer fell on the ground but it means something really different say I dropped off my computer at the repair shop, Then I come home to start my workday. Usually I that I'm going to have for my students, and This phrasal verb to catch up or to catch up on use it in your life too. Let's take a look at super busy week and it's the weekend and you look my couch is covered in blankets. This table I need to catch up on chores. I need to catch up Can you guess what this means? There's something to or you don't have time, and now it's time to emails or I need to catch up on some cleaning, but friend to catch up. Well, it has this same idea. we're talking about everything that's happened maybe you're in the grocery store and you run you might say, &quot;Hey, you want to go get I haven't seen you for a while. I want to hear I also said in my little story that I go over some say review. You can use this in the workplace You could say, &quot;Hey, could you go over this email important email and you want to make sure you &quot;Hey, when you have a second, could you go really appreciate it.&quot; That's so polite. And they might feel good about themselves. &quot;You and worthwhile? Sure, I'll go over that email When I finish my work, I pick up my son from somewhere is used all the time. Let me say like I just did. I'm heading home. of home. You're not there yet. You're not heading home. Or if someone calls you and &quot;I'm heading to the store. I'm headed the store usually means the grocery store or the headed to the store. Or if you are ready to go and you could say, &quot;All right. It's time to head out.&quot; &quot;Come on, it's time to head out. Let's When we get home, sometimes my son and I have day. Usually as we're eating and drinking, open up while we're eating, sometimes I ask some dig today? Did you jump in the leaf pile?&quot; He outside all day, all weather, any season, they're But asking these types of specific questions can might hear people in movies and TV shows using the today? Or what did you learn in school today, even don't really like to answer, especially at the end decompress, and it's tough to summarize So maybe when you were a kid, if your mom asked probably said, &quot;Nothing.&quot; Because it's just a significant other, if you have kids, if you're first of all, doing something together, don't have to have a tea party, although need is some tea, maybe a little snack, cut whatever you like. And just spending quality is a phrase we're going to use in just but I recommend if someone doesn't open up asking the information that happened to them during the they're just living their life. They're not So when you ask a specific question, what game else's food at lunch today? These specific this phrasal verb to open up is beautiful. I love usually at the beginning there's a wall. You If someone says, &quot;Hey Vanessa. How are you I'll always say, &quot;Pretty good. What about those types of passing situations. We're just when you spend quality time together, that might be more willing to be vulnerable. Vanessa: ... to be vulnerable. And that's the idea. When talk about your struggles, something difficult life, not just the surface shallow things, you're being your authentic self. So just that you want someone to open up to you. All When the weather's nice, usually our neighbors Sometimes, we play games. Sometimes, we just it's a favorite hangout spot. And this word &quot;to can be used as a verb. &quot;We love to hang out in usually with other people, we hang as a noun. &quot;This is a hangout.&quot; we can use this in three ways. A hangout &quot;What kind of location is it?&quot; It's a hangout private place. Instead, it's a hangout spot. It's After hanging out with friends, as the sun starts cook dinner. While we're eating dinner, we try to try to have a little bit of quality time questions. The most common questions, in fact, my he asks us one by one, &quot;What was the best part he asks, &quot;What was the most challenging part that kids will say to these questions. if your kids aren't familiar with English, it's asking these questions helps to kind of prompt about the best thing or the most challenging thing people at the table to open up to, &quot;Oh, what a There are two phrases I want to share them is as a family. Now, this just means the we can use the same structure in other ways. as a community, as a department, as an office. in that group. So for example, you could together as a couple without your kids.&quot; So is very important. So you could say, &quot;As a &quot;it's important to be together Another expression that I used is quality time. the tea party. I think I might've mentioned it. too. But it means that you are not just having You don't have to go anywhere. You're just encourage you to try to spend some quality you don't need to go anywhere. You don't hour just to take a walk with a friend or to kids. Something that's quality time. There's After dinner, we clean up. We put the kids &quot;Sleep tight!&quot; So one of these expressions that I &quot;We put the kids to bed.&quot; This means that we we read some books, we sing some songs, &quot;We put the kids to bed,&quot; that's what it means. change the word bed for sleep, if you put someone a pet. So if we said, &quot;I had to put my dog to which is a nice way to say, &quot;Kill your dog.&quot; Maybe It's a really tough thing to do, but it's often &quot;I had to put my kids to sleep.&quot; Instead, &quot;I Of course, if you say your kids, people are helped them sleep, but just to make certain that &quot;I put my kids to bed every night at seven The final thing that I say to my kids before they a fun expression that's actually shortened from tight. Don't let the bed bugs bite.&quot; Of course, a very old expression. Sometimes, we say that full we say, &quot;Goodnight. Sleep tight. Don't we just shorten that to, &quot;Goodnight. Sleep means I hope you sleep well. So if you hear or if you want to say this yourself, it's great. A After the kids are in bed, Dan, my husband we get caught up on chores, maybe sometimes just chat about our day and decompress. you have nothing else to do except decompress especially before you go to bed. If you are oh, no, no, no, stop that right away. It's downtime. Give yourself a one-hour pause mind down. Having some downtime with someone you When the day's over, it's finally time to I might just sleep like a log. or there's a lot going on in my mind, I falling asleep. And fingers crossed so I don't have to wake up in the middle of the talk about some of those expressions I just used. and I have a last-minute chore. &quot;At the end of just means sleep. &quot;I need to hit the hay. My head And I also said that, &quot;I might sleep like any sounds? Nope. It's just a tree that fell still. It means you slept very soundly, very on the other hand, to toss and turn means least you didn't go to bed peacefully. Your and turned. And what about the last one I used? &quot;I hope that my kids sleep all night. Fingers Great work talking about your daily routine in topic, which is family heritage. Maybe, your years and years and years. Or maybe your You need to be able to talk about this because hearing about where people's families are from. All right. Are you ready to get started with to be telling you a section of this story. I will your turn to repeat that section of the story with to hear my voice and to listen to these lessons, section, it is going to be your turn to speak out &quot;At the turn of the century, my the US from Naples, Italy. He married a woman talk about this phrase. At the turn of the we're talking about 100 years. So can you we're talking about around 1900. It doesn't bit before or after. Any of that timeframe is we can get an idea that it's around 1900. So a lot of new technologies were being All right, now that we've talked about this section of the story again, and then you will see and I will be listening. No matter where you live can hear you. So I want you during the pause just said right here. And I want you to use your phrase at the turn of the century, practice section. Are you ready? Let's go. &quot;At the turn to the US from Naples, Italy. He married a Great work with your first repeating section. &quot;Unfortunately, his wife died, so he wrote a her to help him find a new wife who could help him &quot;unfortunately.&quot; It's quite a long you can pronounce it as accurately unfortunately, un-FOUR-choo-NUT-lee, able to make it to your party this weekend.&quot; All segment with me? Let's listen to it again and no matter where you are. Let's go. &quot;Unfortunately, back in Italy. He asked her to help him find a new work with this second section of the story that Remember that my great-grandfather has three please help me find a new wife, so that I can have Let's see. &quot;She found him a wife from their future wife's dimensions, so that he could bring a take a look at this word dimensions. First, the dimensions, dimensions. &quot;So he has his future talking about her physical measurements, so that tailor and that tailor can create a wedding who he's never met before. We can also talk about a table, you might say, &quot;I need the dimensions so it exactly fits in my kitchen.&quot; Okay, so that you know the size of an All right, I'm going to repeat that focus specifically on the pronunciation of out loud after you hear me repeat the section from their village, and in her letter, she that he could bring a wedding dress to Italy that &quot;Typically, in these situations, at the would be shipped to the man in the US who she But my great-grandfather did things a little Italy to meet the woman before he married her.&quot; pronunciation. Notice that at the end there the word shipped for packages. &quot;I am shipping a but a long time ago, apparently, we shipped we're talking about a person, but you are most All right, let's repeat this section together, and then I want you to say it out loud. at the turn of the century, the woman, the who she would marry. This is called a mail order little bit differently. He chose to go back home All right, are you ready for &quot;In a twist of fate, he fell in love, not but her sister, Antoinette Minolfi.&quot; perfectly describes this scenario. &quot;Well, because he married a different woman. I'm here, not the woman his mother had chosen for we're talking about destiny, something that Now, in the story, I used this in a positive way he chose to marry her sister instead.&quot; But talk about really negative situations. We could So we could say, &quot;In a cruel twist of fate, she and couldn't play any more through the rest of the she scored the winning goal, she wouldn't be able that was outside of her control, and it feels a she should be their star player, but instead All right, now it's your turn to repeat that story he fell in love, not with the woman his mother Minolfi.&quot; &quot;In their wedding pictures, Antoinette someone else, her sister,&quot; this phrase to be meant to go to someone else, but that's not really meant for her, but they gave it to someone else by but they accidentally gave it to someone All right, now, it's your turn to repeat loud. Let's go. &quot;In their wedding pictures, was meant for someone else, her sister.&quot; In love story. Even though the dress was meant for other. I like this word &quot;symbolic&quot;, because expressions. &quot;The dress is symbolic of their You could say something like this. &quot;Usually, something that reminds us of peace and hope.&quot; All segment and speak out loud. &quot;In my opinion, Even though the dress was meant for someone &quot;After they got married together, they children of their own.&quot; This phrase to &quot;of my own,&quot; &quot;of his own,&quot; &quot;of your something that's belonging to you. I want you I lived in a small apartment until I had enough subject &quot;I&quot; matches with the pronoun in this match. And that's what I used in the story. We're All right, now, it's your turn to repeat the got married together, they immigrated back to Are you ready for some more tragedy in this love my great-grandfather died, leaving her to raise talk about this phrase &quot;on her own,&quot; because we own&quot;. But here, we're going to change one word &quot;on meaning. Got to love English, right? So in this on her own, this means alone, with no help, to help with the children, to help be a man in And just like our previous phrase, the pronoun the sentence. &quot;I film these lessons on my own.&quot; the camera or the microphone or the lights. It's &quot;I don't run this business on my own.&quot; Here, on my own. I have a lot of wonderful help. who help to proofread and make sure that I'm the wrong things. People who help to create the There are wonderful people who are helping All right, now, it's your turn to repeat this Don't worry, it will get better in the next out loud. Use your speaking voice. Go ahead. my great-grandfather died, leaving her to raise &quot;Somehow, my great-grandmother, and she is the beloved matriarch of our family.&quot; beloved matriarch. Here, this first but listen to how it's pronounced, be-LUH-ved. You can use this for plenty of things. For animal that they love to hug at night.&quot; It's stuffed animal. In that second word, matriarch, patriarchal society.&quot; We hear that word a lot in opposite word is matriarch. Matriarch. Notice MAY-tree-ark, and this is when a woman is the the beloved matriarch of my family. She's the All right, now, it's your turn to repeat We only have one more speaking section best. Speak out loud. Here we go. &quot;Somehow, made it work and she is the beloved matriarch and I even had a picture taken with her when I was Let's take a look at this final phrasal that I'm physically looking up, we're talking about respecting someone. Everyone because she kept the family together. She do you know what? Because of her, my family here today. I'm so grateful to her. So let's talk You could also say this, &quot;One of my French When I became an English teacher, I really looked to emulate how he taught, because I loved and I'm actually learning. So I hope that learning and you're actually learning English. All Speak out loud, use your voice, and repeat and I even had a picture taken with her when I was Well, congratulations on speaking English with Don't forget to download the free 44-page ebook lesson. Every vocabulary phrase, every sample download this 44-page free ebook by just clicking address, and I will send you this free 44-page ebook, all of my hard work for you. Well, thank and I will see you again next Friday for a But wait, do you want more? A lot more? more two-hour conversations with me, including, why in the world do I have 13 pets? Huh? Let's