Hoai Ca, hello everyone, very happy to see everyone again. Wishing everyone a happy, peaceful and happy new day. Why did it all break and rot? Only the saplings are left. Tony, hello everyone . Baby, let's go to work. I'll take care of the house and play well with my friends. I'll eat breakfast and then go to work . I'm not hungry. Mom, I have to eat a little in the morning to have enough energy to work. I'm always hungry. I'll eat after I go to work. , I want to tell mom, don't come to Hoai Ca's house anymore, mom, please don't come and cause trouble anymore, I'm in trouble, mom, listen to me, don't come and cause trouble, it's really bad for me to go to work or come help her. Mom, I'll come and help Hoai Ca when I have free time. How can I leave my job ? I can't neglect my work. The agency fired me. Where can we live? Is it government work? do it for free. Yes, it's my job, don't worry , I just hope you don't come to Hoai Ca's house to bother her anymore. She and her mother are miserable enough, I know. I always think that Hoai Ca is the reason why I always cause trouble. I was so worried that I told my mother that it was because she said I didn't listen, but she told me to take care of her pumpkin field, why did I let it get so bad? It must be because of the drought. Mom , I'm old. You gave me work but I neglected it. like that, you have to irrigate and fertilize , yes, when you get home in the afternoon , do it, come home early and do it, people will laugh at you if you leave it like that, yes, when you get home from work, go down to water and if you leave early, go buy a table and chairs for your mother before returning home. You water pumpkins for mom behind the table and chairs so you have time to go later. Come home and take care of pumpkins and corn for mom before you go to work. If they fire you, you'll be miserable. Yes , hello mom, I'll go to work later and remember to eat to ensure my health. Yes, hello sir. Yes, this vegetable field is mine. Yes, your cabbage is big. Do you want to sell it? Please give me a few less. Yes, please sell me a basket of this. Yes, you can take whatever tree you want, you can cut down any tree you like . Come home and weigh it for me. Yes , please help me put it on my shoulders. Yes, I just met my grandmother today . I have something to tell her. Is there anything else? I have something to tell you. Come in . Sit down and drink water. What are you doing here? I have something else to tell you. Tell me. I'm busy drinking. If you have something, please tell me. I came to tell you that from now on, Hoai Ca is my daughter. I came to tell you, from now on, don't come and bother my child anymore. Let my child rest assured that he can do business. I hope you don't come. What right do you have to stop me? My son spent so much money there, why can't I come, you're so funny, from now on he's my daughter, my adopted child is like my biological child, I have the right to protect my child, tell her the money is yours, Who knows, my child also works to make money, now it's like that , oh my god, if your child makes money, you don't have anything to give him, don't be so bold, all my child's money is there, the table and chairs are not there yet. Buy me a seat and pay my monthly salary. What right do you have to forbid me from going there? Who knows if your child will give it? My daughter works hard and saves to be where she is today. Why do you think it's her child's? You gave me my child , you asked your child if he would give it to me, I'm his mother, from now on I will protect my child, I'm just an adoptive mother , I'm not the biological mother, the adoptive mother doesn't care about me and me now My child goes to work far away, I take my daughter in, when times are difficult, my mother and I rely on each other to protect each other. My grandmother takes me to her house. Protecting my mother and I, traveling together is my business, I don't need it. I know you and your mother, but I have to protect my child's money, the house and land my child bought, what right do you have to forbid me? Why are you so cruel that I can keep it for outsiders to enjoy? Who is it? Besides, after all, I'm his mother. Surely you would accept my daughter to get my child's house and land, right? Don't dream about it. You just think it's her child's. I accepted her because I love her. She's here, dad. She doesn't have a mother, nor any brothers , and she's gentle and obedient, so I adopted her as my child , so a mother like me needs to protect my daughter. Now my son and your son love each other. If you don't agree, you tell your son not to go there anymore so that my son can be left alone. You're good. You pair your son with Ms. Nhung first. He will marry Nhung later. Never again. Where can I marry your daughter? Hoai Ca, she's so obedient. How can Hung leave her? It's so dark. Turn on the light. Sit here while I get some milk for you to drink. After drinking, sit down and play while I go cook, Hoai Ca. , are you at home? Yes, please open the gate for me . Yes, hello. Mom, please come in . I have a car at home that I don't use anymore. I'll take it for Tony. Yes, thank you. Mom, your Tony is playing. Please give it to me. This bike is for practice, let Tony come down and try out the new bike. Let me install it for you , let me take it out to the yard, my nephew is so good . My Tony is almost able to walk. Thank you, come here with me . This yard is not flat, Mom, so it's a bit difficult to walk. Yes, I bought a bag of cement and poured it into the yard so Tony could go and stop the fall. Yes, it's very difficult to walk here. Please let Tony come in. Yes, Mom, sit down and have a drink and wait for me. Please sit down and play while I go out and talk to Grandma. Tony likes the car very much, Mom. Yes, when a child sees something strange, he likes it . Yes, let me invite you for a drink this morning. I passed by the house. Hung saw his mother at home. I went in to talk to her. I warned her not to come in and bother you. From now on, if she comes here again, just let me know, I won't leave her alone. Where is she ? From now on, I don't have to worry about anything. Mom , yes, thank you, but you don't need to go there. Out there, two ladies are shouting at each other and it affects your health. Mom, I passed by and saw her. I just went in to talk to her, you don't have to worry, I just told her to stop harassing you, leave me alone and let me do my business. I'm your mother, so I have to protect you , yes, I'll take care of you. I'm relieved now, thank you mom, I'm here and I have to pay attention to Tony and teach Tony to walk. Compared to other people like that, he's slow to walk. It's hard work and you have to spend a little less time. Please give it to Tony. Yes, buy a bag of poker and pour it into the yard so he can practice walking. It's more comfortable in the house . When you're busy at work, bring it to your grandmother so he can take care of it so he can go to work. Yes, from now on you will pay more attention to Tony, practice walking for Tony and remember what I told you , okay, now I have to go home and deliver goods to customers and you just built the well yard. Yes, let me go and see, I have to be able to pour it like that to make it clean. The water we use won't be able to seep down, so I have to make this well mouth higher, otherwise Tony knows it's very dangerous to go out here , yes, I'm planning to make a lid to cover it, mom , yes, I can do it cleanly, that's great, thanks to Hung, mom, he helps me a lot , yes, I think he's good-natured and gentle, His mother keeps preventing him from coming in to help you. He only comes in because he loves you. He does government work and still takes the time to help you like that. You have to cherish this love , yes, I cherish it and I love him so much, mom, don't disappoint Hung. Yes , I am very lucky and happy to meet him, to receive his care and help . In this world, it is very difficult to meet such a person. Yes, mom came out to see the newly made chick naked. Yes, it's so big, so I bought more chickens to raise in the near future. I'll raise more chickens. Mom , I caught two different flocks. They killed each other, so I kept them separately . Yes, I'm coming here to raise some more hybrid chickens to grow faster. Yes , I bought this instrument and Hung bought the other instrument . Hung also brought the chickens for me. Yes, when you come here, you should line up straight over here . At a later time, the older chickens will be released to roam free. Yes, it helps me get into the garden and out of my yard. Yes, Mr. Hung bought extra nets so I will be your mother. Yes, one day I will ask him to help me and let the chickens out. Yes, Mr. Hung is busy with another child, mother. Yes, I'll bring the child to you someday so she can take care of it. Yes , that's okay, I'll come in and play with you, I'll go home and deliver from now on, so you don't have to worry about anything . If that lady is still here, just tell me. Yes , I will take care of it. Don't let her bully you anymore. From now on, I will stand up and protect you. Yes Thank you mom , I'm home. yes try . Yes, when you go to work, you also have to remember to take care of your health. Yes mom, I'm home, go home with Tony. Yes, thank you, Mom , sometimes when you're free, you come out to play. Yes, Mom, if you're not busy, it's great to stay and eat with me and my mother . Another time , yes, please come home. Yes, baby, I like sitting in a car. I don't want to practice walking so I can walk quickly . It's so hot. I'm sweating. Let me take off my shirt and say hello. Yes, hello, I'm watering the vegetables. Yes, I just got home from work. Yes, I came to visit you and your mother for a bit. Yes , sit down and drink water. Yes, did your mother come here today to look for you? I just got home from work all day. I don't know if she's coming in . Yes, I went to work this morning and told her not to come in here or else it's time. It's very difficult for the law to intervene , yes. When I returned home, my mother was the only one to raise me. She gave Tony a walker . I was planning to buy it for Tony, but work was so busy that I couldn't go. Tony was Play inside the house. Yes , honey, it's late now. I'm going to cook. You stay and eat with me and my mother. I'm going to cook now. Yes, you have helped me and my mother so much. I want to do something to thank you, so please call my mother so she doesn't have to wait anymore. yes, hello mom. What's the matter? You have something to do and can't come home to eat with me. I don't have to wait for you . Why do you just let me eat alone? You're going to Hoai Ca's house again , right? You have something to do. I'll eat first. I'll be back later , mom. I'll say hello to you so I can go buy some food, then we can cook it together . Yes, please help me carry the basket to the kitchen. I can't carry it alone. Yes, let me help you. Please help me , Tony is standing there. Be careful of falling, hello Tony. Tony is starting to walk. Could you give me this car? Yes, I'll put it in the other corner wherever I can, so I have to go in first. Okay , I'm going to go buy food. Yes, please buy fish to eat. Yes, let 's make steamed fish. Yes, let 's make stir-fried noodles too. Yes, I'll go get the pot to steam the fish. Yes, you and Tony, go take a shower and let me do it . Yes, I'll wait a little longer. I'll do it for you. I'll take a shower later. I'll take a shower later. Yes