Welcome to Nova Scotia. I'm Dean Petty. I live here in Cow Bay, Nova Scotia. I'm a surfer. I run a few small businesses, and I'm also a hack builder. And I'm obsessed with Nova Scotia. I love our crisp, salty air, our friendly people, You never know what you're going to get. I'm always on the move But I've got my routines. Coffee. Pizza. Surf. Build. Coffee. Pizza. Surf. Build. Coffee. Pizza. Surf. Build. Coffee. Pizza. Surf. Build. That is, unless I'm on a road trip! Here's the perfect road trip on Earth. Your journey will probably start This is our urban center. There's lots of good food, nice places If you're into skateboarding or you want to just get yourself an iconic It's one of the oldest skate shops Shops like this They're what make Halifax so special. And head out back and let my man Joel Sorry dude. This is the roastery. This is where I work We're known for delicious single-origin Try it for yourself next door at Two The pastries are baked And they're over-the-top, And if you're feeling saucy, We have shops on both the Halifax Come in, grab a slice, Stick it on the wall. You'll be part of Halifax Pizza History. And if it's seafood you're after, head straight to John's I got the haddock tips. Extra love. Extra love, I'll What's your name? Dean. Thank you. This place is an establishment. No bells and whistles. Just delicious, One of my favorite things about Halifax is that you're If the waves are flat, I like to get out It's a great way to cool off, and be in nature. And if being on the water is not your thing, It's an easy trail to ride, And there's a few mosquitoes, too. So make sure to bring some bug spray! As the sun goes down, The Narrows Public House is perfectly The room is incredible. My friends put their blood, sweat and The vibe is great We're talking fish and chips, fried and fried onions sandwich, boiled dinner, It's just classic If you head out in the evening, You never know what you're going to find. Like this punk show at a skate park. That's my man Connor. Rippin' it up. Fireworks too? Are you kidding me? When you're head inland to the valley. The valley looks totally different It just has kind of a totally different microclimate It can be foggy and rainy 40 minutes inland to the valley this whole other world of delicious, There's all these farm stands, This one looks pretty good. Look at this hog! Jesus, that thing's huge. This thing's a beast. There's lots of really cool old things in Nova Scotia. You might find something or something that you didn't even know Country Barn Antiques is five floors Yeah, there's just like so much history I love walking around I don't have a clue what half of it is. Maybe Or something like this. And you definitely can't leave Nova Scotia I'm not sure it's If you're down to get dirty, the valley has some of the highest tides in the world, Mudsliding's It's so good. Oh my God, it's exhausting. There's just nothing like it. Those huge tides in the Bay of Fundy so special. Here at Lightfoot &amp; Wolfville, This place really is incredible. But don't take it from me. The reason that Nova Scotia's growing unique for wine So the world's highest tides help us And we're for four generations The valley may not be what you think of but that's why I love it. So drastically different from our rugged When you've had enough, head further south and check out something Peggy's Cove checks all the boxes. Quaint little fishing Because everyone loves a lighthouse. But really, this is just a quick stop Lunenburg It's a quintessential maritime town. And it just so happens So, you KNOW it's rich in history. When you're in Lunenburg, a great way to spend your afternoon Isn't that right, Walter? Welcome aboard! We can see we see fin whales, humpbacks, No telling, you know, Whether you see a whale or not, it's Check out these seals being super cute. Walter is an absolute legend. You're never going After all, the best views of Every coastal town has its watering hole. In Lunenburg, it's The Knot. The perfect place to have a pint, get cozy There's no shortage of cute places The Ivy House is top of the list. How sick is this? Check out this kitchen. The beds are comfy, too. See you tomorrow. Further down the road south, to pull off and chill out. I always keep a rod in my car because you never know There's so many spots to fish here. And through the summer, Caught one. Since we're not catching any fish, cue motorcycle montage. Lunenburg may be the postcard, Because getting out in nature There's so many beautiful nooks There's not a lot of places in the world from the city, and find a beautiful beach to yourself. There's so much stillness, Time to be alone. Time to be in nature. Time to be with your thoughts. There's so much to love about Nova Scotia. This place is magic Thanks for watching Lonely Planet. Like and subscribe