Translator: Chryssa Takahashi Thank you very much. I am going to talk about why nations fail which is really about and some countries are prosperous. It turns out you can tell a lot by looking at the Korean If you look at Korean peninsula at night, That South Korea North Korea, on the other hand, is rather dark. There you can see a spot of light. That's probably the presidential (Laughter) Now, there could be different reasons It could be that North Koreans but they just think candles (Laughter) It could be, on the other hand, that North Koreans but they are just trying I think, however, is that actually North Koreans don't like electricity and power And that enormously restricts So one thing we know about the difference is that poor countries, like North Korea, tend to have much worse technology Let me tell you about about the differences between Poor countries have They tend to have They live shorter lives. They have much worse government So, here is an idyllic Congolese where I do a lot of research, This is what they call, somewhat And you can see that driving you spend a lot of time digging This is the dry season. You are not going anywhere. So poor countries have much worse So why is it that poor and rich countries their technologies, Well, some people think are too poor to afford to build roads, or too poor to use modern technologies not that modern, really, But anyway, they're too poor to use it. But I didn't think that's right. Most of poor counties where I do research, lots of resources that could Now, here is an example of that. You may know this gentleman. He is the president of Zimbabwe. He has been president for 34 years. You think, you probably known him What you didn't know In fact, he won the lottery. Someone who is a great politician I mean, come on. Does Greece I mean, Britain doesn't. So, he is a lucky guy, and I am thinking, that this may not be that he happens to have been and he also in his spare time (Laughter) That road, by the way, in 1960 that was a nice that has since deteriorated into the bush. So I don't think the real reason and prosperous countries are prosperous is that poor countries just cannot afford to do the sorts of things I think the explanation is, and that is what I am going to argue that poor countries and rich countries And that organization in rich countries creates incentives and in poor countries, it doesn't. In fact, most poor countries which block people's incentives And that's what creates poverty. So let me give you which I've realized it's almost the motif of the whole event, I was only expecting to connect this but there we had all these light bulbs So what is this? This is a patent. It was taken out by Thomas Edison in 1880, So Edison had an invention. And what did he do? The patent protected It stopped people from copying his idea. And that created incentives So, that was a very important stimulus Let me tell you a few other things The patent system was actually set up The first patent law's in 1790, and Thomas Jefferson, not Thomas Edison, one of the founding was actually on the first patent board The system was open to everybody. So, it didn't matter who you were, you got a patent, and the government protected Now, that's absolutely crucial that one of the huge differences is exactly innovation, It's that new technologies from South Korea to North Korea. So, here's an example of would call a kind of rule that creates incentives and this institution which I'm going to call inclusive. It's inclusive in a particular because if you look at who are You know, Thomas Edison. Who? What were their social backgrounds? Well, it turns out, Poor people, rich people, farmers, artists, professional people, Talent, ideas, skill, are spread very broadly in society. And if you want to have you need to have a set of institutions that can harness all that That's what inclusive and that's exactly how Countries like Zimbabwe, or North Korea, which are poor, have economic institutions that create very different than inclusive economic institutions To illustrate that in a richer way, let me bring time and talk about why the United States just across the border. I'm going to do that I'm going get you think about Bill Gates and Carlos Slim. Bill Gates from United States of America, What's really interesting is the way those people made their money. Bill Gates was an entrepreneur. He set up a company when he was He made a fortune through innovation Carlos Slim, on the other hand, made a fortune and through owning a monopoly, According to the Organization Carlos Slim's monopoly created reduces national income in Mexico for the period of 2005 to 2009 by 130 billion dollars. So, in the United States, Bill Gates responded creating incentives, What happened? He generated innovation, and that created wealth for him, it created a vast amount What happened in Mexico The way to create wealth but through creating monopolies. Monopolies block and they block other people's incentives. Extractive institutions is what I'm I gave the patent system as an example Let me say that there is something else, and that's what's going on in Mexico, I'm going to call that Rules in society that impede So, that's the difference between But now, let's go and ask, &quot;OK, fine. So how come or &quot;How come Mexico is like that?&quot; and &quot;Why is Zimbabwe like that?&quot; The example of president is perhaps meant to plant And so now, I'd like the seed But I'm not going to grow it in Zimbabwe. Let me go back to the United States and when Thomas Jefferson and get you to think, &quot;OK, so how come they ended up What was the secret?&quot; And I think there were two secrets, So, ultimately, I think what matters for success and failure, is inclusive But lying behind that is politics. And I want to emphasize One is, how did you end up with this patent law that gave everybody equal access That was because in the United States political power was sufficiently but you couldn't have some You couldn't have a patent system &quot;Mmm, maybe you get a patent, Maybe I'll give you a patent, You're not getting a patent.&quot; That wasn't possible, given how So, one thing which is important about was the distribution The broad distribution of political power. The other thing was important, the United States had a strong state It wasn't just a matter it was enforcing the law. The state would come, and they would So, these two things are very important. So let me bring that to the present and show you a photograph Now, what is he doing here? He's giving testimony Here's the strong US state in action. Both of these elements the distribution of power are crucial for understanding the difference between How did Carlos Slim It was a one-party state, which had been in power in the 1990s, privatized Mexico has very nice anti-trust laws. But it's inconceivable that Carlos Slim which was to come and, you know, &quot;I swear to tell the truth, the whole in front of anti-trust authorities So, this is the power of the state. And if you think about both of these elements come in. The fact that Carlos Slim because political power was not and the anti-trust laws that exist because the state is too weak In the United States it's inconceivable that you could have such and the state is capable And in fact, anti-trust laws If you go back to a hundred This is the octopus The Standard Oil Company It was an enormous attempt to build You can see here, it's got its tentacles it's got its tentacles it's enveloping the political system It was broken up So, there's a long battle against extractive institutions So, what about Greece? (Laughter) Let me say something about Greece. How does Greece fit into this? Well, of course, compared to Zimbabwe, or Haiti, or North Korea, Greece has been enormously successful, It's diversified its economy, it's raised people's it's broadened education, health, etc. But I think, the problems stem from the problems of reconciling that you need to create Reconciling, building with having a democracy where political power Now, when I talked about the United States you might have been thinking, &quot;Gosh, you have one thing, you have the other. You want to have a broad that makes the state accountable. You want to have a strong state You can enforce the rules, but I think the more you look, you see that actually in many contexts these two dimensions They sometimes have And I think that's part particularly since is that Greek society building an effective central Remember my example of the patent system, how crucial it was that this was a rule, the same rules applied to everyone. That's what generated If Thomas Jefferson had been handing out &quot;Hey, I want to be president, let's start building a coalition, &quot;I don't like your face. You don't You're not going to get a patent.&quot; If that had been how then it would not have the effects on innovation and economic And I think that once you think about it, you can see that when you when you create political power that can create pressures to undermine To undermine the strong state. To make the state become a tool rather than a neutral arbiter And I would say, that's the root cause from my perspective, in Greece. Trying to make the state to not be clientalistic, And a lot of the economics The way I'm talking now Politics, it's about politics. But economic institutions are embedded in a political society. And they stem from a political process. And I think that's being Think about the deficit Why has that happened? That didn't happen It didn't happen because Greek governments It happened because of this problem with creating a strong state. If the state becomes a tool and not public interests, serving individuals and not following then of course you're going and unsustainable debt problems. Stable macroeconomic but if the state become clientalized, It's about providing private goods. So who's internalizing the debt So, that's a natural context So what's the solution to this? Not fiscal austerity. Fiscal austerity might be necessary but you're treating the The cause is political. The solution to the problem these two elements to build And where does that come from? That's a political project. That'a about organizing Clientelism is always it's just not collectively So, you have to build a project. Politicians have to build to build a non-clientelistic state, to reform the interface And if you ask me, am I optimistic then I'd start looking at the politics, and ask, &quot;Who has (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)