what they come home It started to spread Entering the city again Boil a pot of water Start cooking Also The knife is in operation my darling Look at me, look who it is This club is the right place Thank you, Master. Thank you uncle You're welcome Bye Bye Hello Is anyone there? Is there a kid inside, mom? Is that Aunt Mei? I contacted you on the phone Yuting Come in Aunt Mei, this place is so quiet Very good This is the restaurant oh Edamame Come on baby come on What time is it? It's almost 4 o'clock now I let him go only when someone came This day is alive again Now I'm alone This is your bedroom. What about the others? No one is coming Double regulation of double regulation Sentence of sentence Be a ghost Hey baby Can't Go ahead I like quiet So we have something to say first If you have nothing to do, don't go wandering around in other rooms. Then there is the basement I'm temporarily in charge It has nothing to do with us good Why Don't draw the curtains casually The sunlight outside is too bright Let's go check out your bathroom. I like cleanliness. Damn Don't scare my guests and children. There's a mouse down there Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. These mice He is in the same group as Tang Guan snort I like boiling water This water is good. Nothing can withstand this 100 degree heat Hehehe Let's go Follow me to the second floor I'm looking for a tenant. Just to increase popularity Increase popularity before I won't tell you anymore This is the Peacock Hall on the 2nd floor You can come and play Mom is so beautiful I like it very much A bosom friend Come come come Sit, sit, sit Please take a seat How much is this? I'm in charge of the meals. I'm so sorry, Aunt Mei. Or should we keep the deposit and pay three as we agreed? Can you give me two more days? snort Now this year head There are many good things to say There are several fulfilled Mom, we can deliver. I have lucky money ah good good Let's go. I live upstairs You guys go back to your room. Chat here after dinner Mom is here Will the edamame not be lost? Don't let your imagination run wild The teacher taught us If you get lost If you encounter a bad guy, leave a mark. There is a mother Magic beans will not be lost Why Because you are mommy's baby A pot of water is boiling Start cooking It's time to go under the knife again Cut chopped green onion and cauliflower Chives, my baby my darling Open the lid and see who it is. Baby, that is Yi Ya, the ancestor of chefs I'm the best cook here. I see. I like to make soup I like to make soup for the people I like. And you I Me too My mother is an accountant Ah, no wonder Be thrifty Aunt May We haven't been very relaxed recently. The beautiful woman who manages money is actually short of money ah It seems a bit Not right Ha ha ha ha Oh, my little soulmate I'm here to give you a pre-dinner treat OK Throw your fingers away Throw your fingers away Um It's ketchup Hahaha Clever and smart How nice it would be if it were my daughter Hahaha Where is the burn medicine? Without your hand Damn dog, it's okay. Dinner is ready 7 soups Good luck please Thanks Aunt Mei It's really nourishing he Favorite drink How about it Um Very good, very good Mom, it's delicious. Anyone who has tasted this Dragon, Tiger and Phoenix dish You are the only one who doesn't say it's delicious. What's up Phoenix is a chicken and a peacock Dragon is Um Baa baa baa baa mom My teacher said we should protect small animals. You are right. You are right. Edamame Come and dance with Mei and the peacock Aunt Mei, can you let me play with a knife? Come come come Why should I teach you how to use a knife? I I can dance too Why do you want to learn peas? I want to be on TV Really It's true Edamame Don't disturb Aunt Mei's rest Aunt Mei is calling me Did you see I am making soup for the man I love for The man I love makes soup By the way, where is your man? Aunt May Can you please not get angry in the face of conflicts? Mention his father Mom, it's time to go to bed. Mom is coming soon Why Don't mention his father oh You're not hiding from anything. You just ran to me, right? No, Aunt Mei We just came out to relax Mom, can you give me a sleeping pill? How do you know this is a sleeping pill? I won't tell you the secret Mom, I'm also afraid of nightmares How can children have so many nightmares? Neither did my mother. Come on baby Chat with mom Let's get started OK Is the ancestor on the wall a god? Why is the child he is holding in the pot? Dragon, Tiger, Phoenix Will they fight in my stomach? And open the lid What's in the pot? Why so many questions? baby Go to sleep I'll listen to my mother and go to sleep. It's ok baby Go to sleep It's really okay Mom is just thinking about what to do tomorrow Mom, will we keep our promise? Yes, baby. Thanks Mother What's wrong You are such a good mother. You are also mommy's good baby Let's go to bed, okay? A pot of water is boiling Start taking pictures I need a haircut again. good chopped green onion cauliflower Chive Flowers my darling my darling Look who it is A pot of water is boiling Start cooking It's time to go under the knife again Cut, cut, cut chopped green onion Cauliflower chives my darling my darling Open the lid Look who it is OK Don't scare the children Go find mom Go find mom Miss Thank you, Aunt Mei This time, edamame Sleep well You two are too angry. I'll make you some vegetarian food to calm your nerves. Thank you Aunt Mei Recently recently The weather is always changing oops Annoying is yes Aunt Mei, you have such a clever hand Because of these hands then Without that man, I won't leave. The most expensive ring Wear it on my hands Then the buttocks are facing the sky Honey on the mouth Begging me Marry him Marry him You must marry him Just like the angry little plum blossom It hit your heart Jump, jump, jump Sometimes Because of these hands I'm afraid Why These hands He caught him I don't know if it's happiness Or the Abyss Let's not talk about this anymore. The past is too painful to look back on I went out to buy groceries for you. Aunt May I thought I went grocery shopping. If you go far away, you can do whatever you want. That's not the case. Aunt Mei, I'm sorry, Aunt Mei I tell you actually Every day, the courier delivers vegetables to our doorstep. You think Aunt Mei isn't like this? I'm worried about the kids. Last night he wanted to listen to Walk Baby, baby, wake up, baby Mother let's go Mother I found my little sister when I was sleeping just now Mom, can you let me sleep a little longer? Just sleep for a while Um It'll be here soon let's go Walk, walk, walk, walk, walk, walk, walk Baby, let's not bother Aunt Mei anymore. Let's go. Aunt Mei is taking me away Can I have a bowl of soup? Good good good Aunt Mei will serve you soup now. Have you finished drinking edamame? let's go Can you let me finish this drink? Drink it! I said drink a bowl Drink it! After you finish drinking, Aunt Mei will serve you another bowl Sorry Why edamame? Aunt Mei, I'm full. Naume Make soup for you every day Really I promised to make soup for you every day. Thank you, beautiful lady A kind person introduced us here. We are good people Who comes here to say that Is a bad guy Aunt May Then how do we look like bad guys? Don't be surprised. Now people all over the world are making up stories Okay, let me tell you my story. My husband and I were college classmates. We love each other deeply Working together Start a family There is a contradiction again I feel I am this world The happiest woman Why not mention his father? He's protecting us. Killed by a bunch of bad guys That's why we hid here. It's not that I don't allow you to mention his father It's because Maodou watched his father leave. From then on, Maotou never mentioned his father again. Never cry again I feel this child Is there something wrong with your mind? I hate to see children being wronged. Yuting Don't take it seriously, Mr. Tang. Thank you Aunt Mei Edamame said We will deliver on our promises Beauty, etc. You are the customer service of our city's labor agency There is a cultural company that is about to go public Especially for you Is it reliable? We were supposed to charge an agency fee. We are destined No agency fee If you go too late, there will be no quota. The child he holds is always in the pot Do you know his specialty? I don't know what it's delicious. Children, children You kid don't understand This bowl of soup Really different Come in Heard Beautiful lady, please ask our big boss to wait for you inside Thank you Does it look good? Is it beautiful? Hey, little Zunyi Your hairpin is old-fashioned. Aunt Mei gave you a nice one. I don't want this, my dad gave it to me. Hello, this is my resume Just say it What can you do? Hey, what's wrong? I have been working in finance for 8 years. Yeah, okay We are listed internationally Big companies still have to recruit Counting money Who is this little sister Mei? I found it under the cupboard She is as cute as you. Aunt Mei sleeping on the bed Killing Ghosts Yo beauty Come here and give me a long look You said this turtle is a hooligan? Or a robber? Mom is making a Aunt Mei, are you having a nightmare too? ah The big devil left my dream What are you going to do? Let's talk about human nature. Relationship with animality If there is no sex Is life still meaningful? Is it still interesting? you Get out of my way otherwise I called the police. What what You call the police WTF Do you know what's wrong with me? Without some background, would I dare to start a large international company? Call the police Arrest you first. If you don't believe me, try it. Too childish. Hey hey-hey Aunt Mei is sleeping A pot of water is boiling Start cooking It's time to go under the knife again He cooked his son into a dish and offered it to the The emperor praised him It's a unique delicacy. stop Help! Help! Help! Tell him not to hit me I am a filial son Don't hit me Ms. Zhao What does my uncle want me to do? One day you will understand Who are you? good friend Good friends should stand back to back Heart to heart You will be grateful for the real me I have to be grateful for your disappointment but I won't be in hell like Aunt May Edamame Open the door? What's wrong with you? Edamame, open the door! Edamame, don't scare your mother. What happened to edamame? Aunt Mei's Edamame What happened? We were together just now. broken Maybe he was kidnapped by bad guys. Edamame please Open the door quickly Edamame Edamame This person ran Hurry up and chase me. I must call the police. Oh, I can't call the police. Why? Those bad guys can do anything. Because they can do anything. So you have to call the police. Oops my phone Call the police Must call the police I promised you that I would keep my promise Can't call the police, Aunt Bai I promised them I can't call the police If I call the police He will attack us. I have lost my husband Uncle, I know you. How do you know me? You picked up my mother's scarf Calm I think you are the most handsome Courier boy How come I'm handsome? I don't know either Because you are cute So I think you are handsome Let me show you what real handsomeness is. Wow Want to leave Look Back This happiness doesn't come Edamame Don't want to come back The road is under your feet Edamame Why didn't you tell mom when you ran away? Why don't you tell Aunt May? I'm so scared when mom leaves you Isn't Aunt Mei with you? Aunt Mei, Uncle Xiaozheng found you I saw Maodou alone by the water Don't catch a cold, kid. It's also dangerous. Thank you for always meeting you I just ran this film Courier boy Uncle, where are you going? I'm here to deliver the goods to you. Very good Why You deliver goods to us every morning It's almost evening now What are you doing here? I'm going to pick up my uncle tomorrow So I sent it to you in advance. He also likes soup. broken My old soup is still simmering on the fire. I can't do it. I can't do it. Not bad, not bad Have you got the mountain delicacies I wanted? All the delicacies you want are here. Thank you You're welcome. Wait a minute. Thank you, courier uncle You're welcome goodbye baby Oh, my little soulmate Aunt Mei, I'll make you a dish. The name of the dish is sincerity Thank you, Dad Thank you, Dad Let's eat gourmet food Maxim Every page Come taste him It's really different It's really different Hehehehe Hey It's your turn now. These people are greedy for money The beast that sleeps with his beautiful daughter How many women have you killed? You will be punished sooner or later. How many women do you have? You've made it impossible for me to be a mother. Big Devil Are you here again? Do you still want to whisper in my dream? You almost killed an innocent girl. That girl turned out to be My husband's daughter This time I will definitely kill you, this evil ghost Whether I'm dreaming or awake Mom, why are you sleeping on the floor? baby Did you drink the soup? Mom likes to see you drinking soup No no Don't why Why Why It's like a quagmire here The more I struggle, the deeper I sink Mom goes back to bed Meng Meng, what's wrong with you? Aunt Mei Saves Mom Aunt May Aunt Mei Saves Mom Save Mom I pretended to be good and dealt with them Because I'm afraid they'll eat the edamame. I am torturing my life here Is it raw? Death and Immortality I don't even know I'm alive Never go along with the corrupt I'll hand it over to the police. Sooner or later I will produce evidence You just live here They may find this at any time. I will protect Edamame with you Hate Get lost I'll boil the water and scald him to death Where are the children? Go hide the edamame! Hide the child! Go to sleep. Go to sleep. who My courier brother Lu Ming Yutian your express My express delivery Have you picked up your uncle? My uncle People follow the chief and have a lot of trouble He said that at night Prepare the soup This woman has mental disorder Cruel means of harming people Get out of here quickly The Storm is Coming Protect your courier Mom, where are you? Mom is here Walk fast Oh, it's okay. Not really hot Kids are tough Does it hurt? It doesn't hurt, the teacher said. Be strong when facing difficulties Oh, it's all Aunt Mei's fault. Aunt Mei wants to play with rats Mom, let's go. Good Mommy puts shoes on you Take me. Earth's Horizon come out Come, let me tell you something Come on come on Being a Mom I can't bear to see children being wronged It's ok, Aunt Mei Let's go. You can't leave Let's face these bad guys together The switches have been taken off. The security doors and windows are already locked. Don't worry No one can come in You can't go out either. Just go to sleep peacefully. Where are you, little sister? Why don't you see me? I will leave with my mother at dawn. Now I must find you Edamame Edamame good Today, mom will accompany you to find your little sister I want to keep my promise I want to be brave The meal is ready hahahahahahahahahahahaha Are you playing hide and seek with me, little sister? Can we leave here together? I promised you in my dream I'm going to take you away I remember I remember Don't go My dad doesn't want me anymore. Mom doesn't want me anymore Don't go You promised me We still play hide and seek together. ah Please wait for me Wait for me Don't leave me alone I'm so scared I'm so scared I'm afraid someone can beat me in the snow. I'm so scared Oh, don't go, don't go You said we would play hide and seek together i don't know what I'm afraid I'm afraid What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? The big devil Is he really here again? Don't go away, listen. Ahhh Ahhh Mom mom Ahhhhh Baby, let mommy see Mom, I'm fine. Scared my mother This is It was my sister who saved you. Hey, big devil Aunt Mei What's wrong with you Big Devil come out I am Xiao Zhiyin I like the soup you make. This is edamame. Little Friend What's wrong with me What is wrong with me Aunt May Are you having a nightmare? Wake up quickly Why am I having a nightmare again? Is it really coming? Aunt Mei, open the door! It's the courier uncle. My uncle said he and the chief's secretary will be here soon. Aunt Mei really has a mental illness How can we help him? You and Maodou should hurry up. I was about to leave Yuting Don't take any more risks The real evidence should be handed over to the police Real evidence In the hairpin of edamame This is the last gift my father gave me. wrong How do you know that the evidence I gave to my boss was fake? This is my profession Everyone's destiny They are all different who is he boss You are finally here You came here, husband. Uncle You are here Edamame, run, run For the edamame You two must be good. Woof woof woof I can also have a banquet But that delicious soup is unique in the world I'll leave it to Aunt Mei. Who is he? Secretary to the Chief In fact, we didn't know each other for so many years. I'm going to show you the real me today. The food is served Good friends should stand back to back Heart to heart What are you going to do? Don't move I will be unhappy if you move my hair again This is a good dish. What is sulfuric acid used for? I'm sorry, if you move again, you will have peach blossoms blooming This evidence is horrible. Those who know can only shut up forever Uncle, I don't want to kill anyone. Qishan Peak Let the three women go I am your uncle. Hahaha Don't let your uncle down. Don't let your boss down. The boss is hungry boss You arranged all this. No I arranged all this. We had a lot of fun in the basement. The sound of the mousetrap is really nice Actually I want to kill You But your husband Became a scapegoat Do you still recognize me? I'm the kindhearted person. I brought you two here. You are a daydreaming delivery boy. Don't you want to be a singer? You just have to be mine Only then can your dream come true don't worry I'm in the food you gave Aunt May Added a lot of displacer A crazy woman What extraordinary things can you do? I really can't imagine Aunt Lei Yuting Edamame I'm sorry Now heroes can't save people. Afraid of being blackmailed My courier boy Don't worry, really. years ago I'm stupid and jealous of Aunt Mei I'm in Aunt May's Food Added a lot of hallucinogens Aunt May nearly killed my daughter in a frenzy Who is this little sister Mei? I found it under the cupboard He is as cute as you. Aunt Mei sleeping on the bed lie My silly daughter Now I see little girls always hate They are so cute My daughter is like a ghost Ms. Zhao Excuse me It's our daughter. Pooh You don't deserve it Miss Zhao, They will all vanish into ashes Yes We have a bright future I see So you want to borrow Aunt Mei's hand Get rid of me and the kids Then destroy the evidence You underestimate me too much. Aunt May He didn't know This is where the ill-gotten gains of corrupt officials are hidden. Why can't it be mine? Beautiful sound Can you hear me, the big devil, talking to you? Childhood Your stepmother scares you every day Put you in the pot Cook into soup You are a little person oppressed by nightmares Because your stepmother always recites nursery rhymes to you A pot of water is boiling Start cooking Mouse go away Then you were adopted by the chef Learned to cook and make soup Also learned Playing with a knife to protect yourself But in the end you didn't escape Also became the plaything of these dog officials Suffering abuse Unable to struggle Unable to change Your mind is slowly twisted You are greedy when you see money A beast in human form who sleeps with women Sooner or later, there will be retribution I had a deep conversation with you in my dream. I know You have a personality that scares even yourself. You want to be a butcher? I want to rip out the bones of the ghosts that tortured you in your dreams. Soup A pot of water is boiling Start cooking Also The knife is in operation cut cut cut Cauliflower and green onion Chive Flowers my darling my darling Open the lid and see who it is. Get started He couldn't wake up today. Aunt May No Aunt May The boss wants to taste the best food in the world. Don't Meiyi don't want don't want Miss, I know it's you. I found you I promise you I want to take you with me Hands-on No no no no Sorry, Aunt Mei I lied I learned sword skills from you to protect my mother Because when dad left He told me that his mother was taking sleeping pills Mom is having a nightmare Aunt Mei's father wants me to be brave He stopped me from crying He made me keep my promise My mother will be sad if I cry So I didn't cry Now I cry Sorry, I didn't mean it. I really didn't mean it. Need you to exist The key is me I'm full Be Just know Jane Edamame I am the most handsome courier boy Ahhhhh Ahhh Hahahaha I'm awake I'm awake Hahahaha I know everything Aunt Mei, help! There is no ketchup on the toilet paper. The kind silly child Yuting Save the Children Aaaaaaaaaaaaaa Senior official handed evidence to police You die 100 times Chase, chase, chase Fast Chase ah Dear dear It's me, it's me, it's me A bunch of losers I'll burn you to death ah Ahhh West Mountain Wind Make Way I want to go out I don't want to be a filial son to you anymore. Oh, it's so scary. He's crazy bell Not leaving time Just stop I see What I saw was not a human He is really crazy Aunt Mei, wake up Wake up, wake up Ha ha ha ha Hahaha Ha ha ha ha No disease Want to leave Want to let go The road is under your feet