I have a very interesting idea, but it's it's a super complex move. It's one of those moves that could end up being a mistake, but I don't think it is. Yeah, this is such an interesting position. Honestly, so rich. Such a rich position. I can think about this for 30 minutes, honestly, this position is so interesting. And we'll, uh, unlock some of the secrets after the game. I'm excited for this. We are white against Avela vestida. All right, let's go e four, as we usually do, we are once again facing a car khan. You know what that means? We get to play the fantasy again. And we already have had the fantasy twice in the speedrun. We've done a lot of theoretical work in the fantasy. So by now, if you've watched the speedrun diligently, you should have a good sense of how to play the fantasy. If I remember correctly, both of our previous opponents, they took on E four, and then they both made the same mistake with knight to F six. Kind of an Alokine Karokan cross. This time we are facing a new move, knight to D seven. And I will admit, I've never seen this move. This is not considered a top theoretical move. It's what I would call an inaccuracy. Now, obviously, a move like this cannot be a huge mistake. It's a developing move, but it's a weird developing move. I mean, it's a passive developing move, and black is not in any way challenging our control of the center. Essentially, black is giving us the kind of position that we want, and black is going to get most likely a very solid but incredibly passive setup as a result. Now, we have, I would say, two main choices here. With white, we can close the center immediately by playing E four, e five, and then how are such moves often followed up? Well, if you play the French with white, then you might know that E five is often followed up with F four, and then you bring your night out to F three, and then you can further solidify your center by playing, uh, c three. And that does seem incredibly like an incredibly good version of of the French structure. And I'll show you after the game what exactly I mean when I say French structure. Like, if you're not a night C three French player with white, you might become confused when I refer to the French structure, but you'll see what I mean. So I really like e five here. I think E five is the, is the, uh, way to try to punish black for this move. The other option, of course, is to play knight C three, just a typical developing move. But after night C three, what, uh, bothers me a little bit is the prospect of black taking on E four and then striking at the center with E five, which leads to some very concrete play that I'm not sure is entirely palatable to us, especially given the presence of the alternative e five. So I like closing it down. I also don't think we've had too many of these closed positions in the speed run, and I kind of want to give you a broad overview of how to play different types of positions. And of course, as we all know, a lot of players, they struggle with positions that involve a closed center. They feel like they don't know what plans to pursue. And when the center is closed, it's very easy to feel as though you're just kind of shuffling your pieces aimlessly back and forth. Hopefully, this game will kind of change your mind in that regard. Closed center positions can actually be some of the most interesting that you get in chess because they force you to play on the flanks. But flank play can be some of the most beautiful and tactical, uh, that you see in any chess positions. So what are our next couple of moves going to be? Well, most likely we are going to solidify both rungs of our pawn chain. Right. I'm struggling to figure out a way to refer to these pawns individually, but we have a pond chain right on d four and e five. So both links of the pawn chain we are going to solidify with other pawns to make it as robust as possible. Why do we need to make it robust? Because black is likely to attack our pawn chain with, uh, his own pawns. Right. So, for example, in the French, you often see the move c five. In fact, black may play this move right now. That is why we need c three. Black can also attack the pawn chain from the other end with the move f six. You also see that often in the French, and that's why I like playing f four. So c five is on the board. This is essentially a no brainer. We play c three. We most certainly do not want our pawn chain to dissolve this early in the game because we don't have any pieces developed. And the only thing standing between us and, like death is our pawn chain in the center. So we definitely want to go c three. You might wonder, well, isn't e five already well defended? It is. There is a second reason that we want to play f four, and that is, of course, to open up the natural developing square for the g one knight. And the reason we want to develop the knight to f three is that it has no other good spots to go. If instead we had developed the night to e two, that would just be incredibly awkward, and it would also close off the natural development of the bishop queen. C seven is a bit of an odd move. I don't think it accomplishes that much. Notice that it does not really threaten c takes D four because we can take back and the Bishop on C One is protected by our Queen. So I think we can continue developing along the lines that I have outlined, and we can do it from several different orders. We can play Bishop to D Three first if you want to prioritize peace development. Or we can immediately play F four and then bring our night out to F three. I like both options. I generally lean toward peace development first when possible, especially because we are technically lagging in development. We haven't developed any minor pieces yet. So I do like the possibility of bringing our Bishop out first. And we're also opening up the further possibility of playing ni G One to E two, which I just mentioned is an awkward move. But with the Bishop already outside of its initial square, ni two becomes a little bit more appealing to me. We're trying to play as flexibly as possible. Given that our opponent isn't developing into ambitious style, we're leaving open many developmental possibilities. And I largely think this is a matter of taste. I like the look of Nike one to eat, too. If you want to prioritize rapid development, that's the way to do it. But if you want to play in a maximally ambitious style and get as much space as possible, then we should go for my initial idea and play F Four. But F four is the more textbook approach to these types of positions. So we're going to go for F four. This is the more kind of I want to take it to my opponent type of move. And I think when a lot of people see this move, what you'll notice is that the Bishop on C one starts complaining like, hey, what about me? Now I'm staring at my own pawn. But, uh, the Bishop has plenty of space to develop to E three or even to D two. And this is where I quote my phrase about not every piece having to climb out Everest at one time. Bishop to E three is an entirely serviceable way of developing the Bishop. In fact, on E three, the Bishop does a great job supporting the pawn chain even further. And we definitely want our pawn chain to be incredibly robust. But, uh, we'll cross that bridge when we get there. Let's start with night F three. Let's get our pieces out first, the ones that we know where to go. Yeah. Or distribute the COVID vaccine night to F 597. So if you know anything about the French, then you know that usually this night in the French travels to F five, where it puts pressure, of course, on the D four point. So you might be tempted by the idea of G four. But G four is way too cavalier. We haven't developed enough pieces to justify a move like that. And G four is very bad because of H Five classic positional move. And funnily enough, the opposite effect is reached. We play G four to cover the f five square. But as a result, Black gets a huge outpost on f five, because after g four, h five, we cannot play h three. That's the big problem. Black takes on G. Four. And you often see this on the other side of the board, where the rook on h one is going to be hanging. So instead, we have, again, two options. We can castle kingside, or we can preemptively got our bishop to e three. But what and what I like about that move is that in response to knight, uh, f five, our bishop can very nicely slide back to f two. And I like that because if we instead castle and blackblaze night f five, our bishop suddenly can't come out to e three anymore. Is that the end of the world? Absolutely not. In fact, in that position, g four becomes a lot more appealing because it comes with tempo. But these minor subtleties, these minor developmental details often make a huge difference on the course of the game without you even realizing it. So let's go bishop e three in night f uh, five, we drop our bishop back to f two. And later, that bishop from f two is, first of all, serving a very important purpose of overprotecting the D four pawn. And indeed, that is what happens, but also much, much later, that bishop has a way toward infiltrating Black's position, bishop h four and bishop f six is a maneuver that you see quite often, especially if Black fianceto is their bishop on G seven. Okay, now we continue developing. We castle. Yeah. So the move h five, again, is typical for these structures. And I've used that phrase a lot typical for these structures because we do have a very typical type of French structure where our opponent is displaying knowledge of the sort of classic ideas and the classic way to arrange the ponds. But h five is an all honky dory. Black is preventing g. Four. That is true, but Black is creating major weaknesses, as some of you are pointing out, along the dark squares. In particular, notice that we have an outpost on G five doesn't mean that we should play ni G five here. We shouldn't. Nike five allows Black to trade and fill some of the holes. But later on, that, uh, G five could be an important transit point when we start attacking the black king. The other thing that we can do later on is take the knight out of the equation and then stick our dark squirt bishop on h four. As I indicated earlier, that could allow us to control all of the dark squares on the kingside with our queen. So an idea that you see is actually queen D one to e one, then the trade on f five and then bishop h four. And after the trade, our queen on h four will have access to a lot of these juicy outposts on the Kingside. But, uh, we're jumping the gun here because we haven't completed our development. And with the center closed, the one major rule about positions with a closed center is that you can generally take more time to do stuff than you would with the center open. And that makes intuitive sense, right, that the position doesn't change that quickly when the center is completely closed, especially when it's as well defended as our center is M. So night A three is a bit of a dead end move after a six. Yeah, you could be tempted by this maneuver night A three, night B five. But I don't like it because night A three, a ah, six. Like, where is the night going to go? I think a more robust way of developing here is and beat a D two toward the center. And you might say, well, where is the night going from D two? Again? Nowhere. Nowhere yet. But it is in the center, and you never know when its services could be required. It's a frankfurt airport move. That's exactly right. The other thing to remember about closed center positions is that, broadly speaking, there are two types of plans. There's a type of plan where we attempt to position our pieces in a certain way and then rip the center open, blast it open. And our hope in such a scenario is that we have arranged our pieces in a better way than our opponent has in order to prepare for the opening of the center. Like, we prepare our pieces in such a way that when the center opens up, we are somehow better equipped to handle the consequences than our opponent is. And one reason that may be the case is if we have a big development advantage or if our pieces are placed a lot more actively when the center is closed. The difference in piece activity may not be all that felt right, because things are closed up. And just the fact that a piece is not very well developed might not be imminently felt. But when the center opens, you suddenly start realizing that all of those disparities in peace activity are actually important. And we, in this very position with the white pieces, have a very interesting idea that is part of this category of plan where we just blast the entire thing open and we hope that our more active pieces are going to be better equipped in the resulting chaos to address the new problems of the position. What am I thinking about? What does it even mean here to open up the center? Well, what I'm not talking about is D takes C five that isn't that isn't really open the center, because DC actually just gives black a little bit more space, and it allows black to contest the dark squares in the center, particularly the E three square. Instead, I'm thinking not about b four, b four. Black can keep things closed with C four, but instead about the move C four ourselves creating the pawn box. And by creating the pawn box, we are guaranteeing that one way or the other, the center is going to open. But we can play C four immediately. What we can also do is eliminate black's only active piece before playing C four. We can eliminate black's only active piece and then go C four and really try to pin our hopes in the resulting position on our incredibly active pieces. So bishop takes f five is what I'm thinking about. But I also really like the look of c four, because we can delay bishop takes f five. We don't have to play it immediately. We can play it a little later. Yeah, I actually like the look of c four. And if black plays pawn takes D four, then we can take the knight on f five. You might look at this and think two things. First of all, what about knight takes C four? Yeah, knight takes d four is what I was evaluating just now, and hopefully that will happen. So I can show you my considerations. I'm, uh, not positive, by the way, that c four is the correct move. Not at all. I have a feeling that it is. But this is a largely intuitive determination. I didn't do too much calculation here. A second thought that you might be having is, how do I know that we're not afraid of losing b two? Well, first of all, losing b two is almost never a problem when you're castle to the other side of the board unless you lose a bunch of other pawns. When black takes B two, and I'm sure you've blundered like that before, right? Where you blunder b two, but then you also lose c three. So you don't just lose one pawn. You lose your whole queen side. Here, our queen side is still very much intact. It's not like black has anything to do with our pawn cube. By taking on b two, queen takes b two creates no threats, allows us to consider to continue pursuing our agenda in the center. And I'm going to have to prove it. Queen takes b two on the board. Okay, m, let me think for a second. I have a very interesting idea, but it's a super complex move. It's one of those moves that could end up being a mistake, but I don't think it is. Yeah, this is such an interesting position. Honestly. So rich. Such a rich position. I can think about this for 30 minutes. Honestly, this position is so interesting. And we'll unlock, uh, some of the secrets after the game. I'm excited for this. Let me share my idea with you all. Honestly, this is probably a mistake. I think I know why it might be a mistake, actually. Wow. Incredible. Black has an incredible response to the move. I was intending, which, by the way, is queen to a four, trying to get the other rook to be one in order to trap the queen. But that is far from the only way in which we can address this position. We don't need to try to trap the queen. I think the queen is untrappable here. We don't have enough firepower on the queen side. So I think we should instead continue our focus in the center and continue trying to blast the center open so that we can exploit our increased peace activity. So let's start by making a move that we know is going to be good. We know this move is going to be good. C takes d five, right? We need to open up the center in order to do that. That is why we played the move c four, and now we take on d five. Now, if black does not recapture, then we can drive this pawn forward to d six. And that looks horrific for black, absolutely horrific. So black will probably end up taking back on d five, and we're going to have to speed up a little bit here. We've got six minutes, so I'm going to have to make a couple of moves, likely without too much explanation. So what to do after e takes d five is the big question. Well, most of you should be tempted by the prospect of then taking the NF five, ruining black's structure even further. And as I said earlier, eliminating black's only active piece, which right now is the NF five. So you should be tempted positionally by the move bishop takes f five. Of course, giving away your control over the light squares is a little bit painful, but it might be a worthy price to pay, and I think it is a worthy price to pay. I think that we should, in fact, take the night while we still have a chance. And now we should complete the opening of the center. We should complete the opening of the center by playing DC. Okay, so we played CD, then we took the night. Now we played DC, and now we can say that the center is fully open, which means we need to start looking for tactics, right? We need to transition from general positional thinking where we can luxuriously bring our pieces out and play a little bit more slowly. Now the center is wide open. Moreover, black has not yet developed their queen side. So we really need to step on the gas pedal here, because only a couple of moves is what stands between black and full consolidation of his extra pawn, which, let's not forget, we have given away. We've given away a pond. So there's a couple of moves that I think are pretty good here. The move that occurs to me intuitively, perhaps it also occurs to you intuitively, is bishop f two to d four, because what I'm seeing there is that we're actually X raying the rook. So Bishop D Four, followed by E Six looks really, really interesting as a discovery against that rook. Further trying to blast open the center. But Bishop D Four is also good as a standalone move. It just brings the bishop into the center. And that's just a priori, a good thing. So I'm a simple player. I identify something I like and we play it. Also, we're down to six minutes, so we got to play a little bit faster here. So Bishop D four, it hits the queen. Also, the queen was starting to annoy me a little bit. It was hindering, uh, our ability to bring pieces to good squares. Right, that queen on B two definitely stops queen C two. Right. It just sort of hangs over us. So let's get it out of there. So our opponent is thinking about where to put their queen, but our response to most moves is going to be E Six. Right? There's a lot of ideas and one of the challenging things about surviving these positions, I think our opponent is playing this fantastically, by the way, so far, making us work work to prove it. The thing is, if we do not go E Six, then Black is going to stick a knight on E Six and somehow keep the center close. So E Six at this point is pretty automatic. And that, I think, was a big mistake. That right there, I think, might be the decisive mistake because this allows us, and I'm going to play this move without thinking, to take on F Seven and drive the king out into the open. And once the king is on F seven, we definitely have the firepower to exploit that. F Six was the only move there to survive. This is going to be destruction, I think. All right, so there's two moves here that I, like most of you are probably tempted by. Knight to e five. Check. That's one of them. 95. King e. Eight. Queen takes h five. Check. Might seem like made, but it's not. It's not checkmate yet. Uh, the king escapes to D Eight, and in that resulting position, unfortunately, the move queen to F seven, which would have forked the rook in the pawn, runs into bishop E six still not over. There is another move in this position, which is interesting. Knight to g five. Check. Which leads to kind of a variation of that line. But ni g five. Check. Allows the additional resource king to G six, trying to use the king itself as a defender. We've talked about that concept in a previous speedrun. I still think White is a huge attack there, but there's no reason for us to overcomplicate things. Let's go 95. Absolutely no reason for us to do anything outlandishly fancy. Okay. Whoa. This looks totally Karakiri. And again, I don't see a need for us here to reinvent the wheel. The one pitfall I think is the move rookie one, which perhaps a lot of you are, uh, looking at and salivating at its prospect. But remember, rookie one, there's knight c five to e four. When you occupy an open file, you can't assume that Black is just going to move the king. By the way, king d six. Everybody should see that knight c four is a fork against the queen and the king. Anytime the king and the queen are in a forkable spot, you have to think about that. So there's no need for us to do anything of that nature. I think the simplest move is queen takes pawn, not because we win the pawn back, that's not the reason, but because we're trying to get the queen to f seven. That is the reason. It just happens to capture the pond. We would have played that move even if it had not captured upon. Okay, so we still have some work to do. Rook f eight was actually a very good move, which makes our job harder. Now, queen g six, check has to be calculated first and foremost, bishop f six. And then let me think for a second. Can we find a crusher in that position? It's not as easy as it appears. Yeah, I do like knight g six. That's my second candidate move. I love the look of Nike g six because it opens up the e file and it targets an important cog in Black's defensive machine. That bishop on e seven is handling a lot of the dark squares, which otherwise would be ours for the taking. So queen h six check is tempting, but there's rook to f six, that's an issue. And maybe in that position, we could drive the queen, I don't know, up to g seven. And then queen g eight is a checkmate threat. That does look winning. That looks like an excellent way to play, by the way. OOH, I love it. Queen h six, check. Because the idea is to prevent bishop f six credible. I love it. Let's do it. Queen h ah. Six check. Comparing checks, one of the themes of this move, not assuming that two similar looking checks do the same thing. Bishop f six here, of course, gives up the rook on f eight. The king has nowhere to go. And what is the purpose of driving the rook out to f six? Well, there are two of them. The first is that the rook is under the x ray of the bishop. And don't forget that even when you're attacking the king, you are very much allowed to win material. I tell this a lot to students. There's a fixation when people are attacking on trying to checkmate the king. And you might think, well, that's the only way that the attack is going to succeed. But there's a whole category of ideas that involve basically using the weakness of your opponent's king in order to win a decisive amount of material when you're attacking. You can just go for your opponent's pieces sometimes. And because your opponent is so preoccupied with defending their king, he has to put pieces on vulnerable squares. That's why these combinations happen. Queen b four. That's a good move. That's the only move, I think, to keep things relatively protected. Okay, let me think for a second. Queen GH at King d six. I'm sure we have some sort of a beautiful win. Okay, night F three, I like a lot. Yeah, I like the look of night F three. We do have three minutes, so we have to be a little bit speedy here. I love the look of night F three because it doesn't give away any advantages. It doesn't give away any advantages. In fact, it prepares night G five and it protects the bishop in a very safe way. So the other thing to remember when you've got these types of positions, and of course a very resilient defender is going to make you work for every little bit of the attack. But, um, among most levels, your opponent is going to collapse in a matter of a couple of moves. What you have to remember is that we haven't actually sacrificed anything. Black just resigns it's plus eleven in this position. We haven't actually sacrificed anything. And what I wanted to show was that if Black plays a move like knight to E four in order to take the sting out of knights, e five, the top computer move is actually an incredibly quiet move that just brings a piece into the attack. That's all this move does. It also cuts off the king from its potential escape route just to move rook A to C one. These are the types of moves that a lot of people are not willing to make when they're attacking. And yet they make all of the difference between a win and a loss. In many cases, successful attack, failed attack, for instance. Bishop D seven, we just go rook to C seven. And the added presence of the rook overwhelms Black's defensive abilities here. The top engine move is actually knight F seven with queen to E five. Checkmate. Pretty little concept there. Everything's protected. And this is completely one sided. So I've already presented a little bit of fantasy theory in previous videos. Um, here we're just going to focus on our opponent's move because I've never seen it before, and I really want to make sure that we responded appropriately and I think we did. So, e five is the first big decision of the game. E five. Once again, the reason I rejected NZ three was because defe and e five kind of transposes into a more conventional position. And I wanted to punish Black for playing 97 according to the engine after de. White is a little bit better here, but, uh, how lame would it have been to go into an end game this quickly? In the fantasy, you can play like Bishop E three, and then Long Castle. And White is pretty comfortable here, but Black has a nice knight on E five, so I'm far from convinced at this idea. So I think we played correctly. I think E five is the way to punish knight to D seven. Now, I kept repeating the term French structure. What I mean is a structure that primarily occurs in two different variations of the French defense. One is the advanced French. This is the classic e five, c five and C three. And you get the pawn chain from the game, except you get a much improved version for Black. This is a better version than what Black had in the game because the knight goes out to C six, it doesn't go out to D seven, which is a terrible square. It's a dead end square. The knight has to go out to C six here, and Black puts immediate pressure on the D four pawn. You can see how different this is from the game continuation, and White is unable to squeeze in, uh, F four. This is what I meant. There is also a line of the French knight, C three, called the Winauer Bishop Before, and a kind of similar structure arises in the main line of the Winauer, E five, C five, A three, and then we often have a trade. This position is incredibly well studied. And again, you have this kind of situation where White is a pawn chain and Black is attacking either the base of it or the middle of it with its pawns and pieces. Okay, in the game continuation, it's a much inferior version for Black because this knight is placed on a horrible square, and Black has lost a tempo playing C six and C five. So queen C seven, I think is decent. We got our bishop out to D three, E six, F. Uh, four, I think, is pretty sensible. I think our opponent played sensibly for a while. G six. Pretty normal move. We got our night out. They got their night out. We brought our bishop out. The night went to F five, and you want to avoid taking on F five prematurely. I don't like the idea of giving up the LightSquared bishop until it's sort of absolutely necessary. You can play the move. Bishop takes F five at any moment. So rushing a move like that is just completely senseless. And the bishop on D three is quite a nicely placed piece. So does C Four not benefit Black? I think C four might even be the best way for Black to handle this position. I actually think that with the light squares closed down, this move makes a lot more sense because a position like this is quite bad for Black. First of all, because of what I pointed out earlier, the fact that a lot of the dark squares on the king side are quite weak, and we can bring our bishop to age four. But the second reason is that white actually holds a lot of the cars on the Queen side. A lot of people are afraid of this type of attack, but it's not very dangerous when you don't have your pieces to support the pawn storm. So, like, Black, uh, can bring the pond to b four. Big deal. What is black actually threatening? Not really. Nothing, really, because c three is nicely protected, and we can already start trying to checkmate Black on the other side of the board. With queen h five a devastating threat. And you can see how good this knight is. H six, by the way, there's 96 a worthy pattern to know. This is mate. So no matter what black does on the Queen side, our play on the king side is going to be superior. So that's just one example of why c four is not very effective. You can, of course, also drop the bishop back and again after b five, you castle. And if Black plays b four, this could actually benefit White. I would even consider taking on B four and bringing the night out, because the pawn on B four is so well protected by the minor pieces in the Queen that we can afford to give up its support in service of a better developing square for the night. Later on, you could also play b three and work on opening the Queen's side. So Hess always says that the side that controls the pawn breaks usually has the advantage. And in this case, even though it may appear that black has a nice pawn chain, black has no pawn breaks. White is the one who can push pawns on both sides of the board and essentially open up the position whenever he pleases to do that. That's a lot of words, but hopefully that explanation made sense. So c four might have been the way for black to play. Of course, Black definitely in the game, regretted not playing C four because we ended up being the ones to play C four. So we've got our pieces out, and I think queen b six is really the beginning of the end. I think after we played C four, black's position completely evaporates. So probably in retrospect, black should have, in fact, played C four. And again, we can take on, um, f five. And a very good move here is actually to play a four and prevent Black from playing b five altogether. Then we can play our old idea, bishop h four and carve out the dark squares on the kingside. Black has just no active prospects here at all or immediately. Bishop h four also makes a lot of sense. This is the engine recommendation. So this type of position is horrible because this other night is coming out to G five, a very powerful outpost. And again, although Black has more space on the Queen's side. White is the one who holds the main pawn break, which is the move B three, to open up potentially even the C file or the A file. So C Four was maybe the lesser evil. And I want to show you my inspiration for the move C Four, because I came across a game quite recently that I thought was pretty sick, played in the French Championship. All right. This is MVL against Degrade. Degrade is a former French champion, very strong grandmaster. I've played him multiple times. Let me replay the first moves really, really quickly. So this was a caro khan? I'm going to skip the theory. The theory is not that interesting, but you can recognize the structure. And the critical position was reached in this position. So Black has this very typical French type pressure on D four. And it actually seems like black has more attackers on D Four than White could even, hypothetically, have defenders, which is true. But watch what MBL does. He plays this seemingly unconcerned move 92. Not like, what, uh, the hell is he doing? Is closing down his bishop. And Degrade just takes on D four. And you might imagine that White has misplayed the opening. Right. White's lost the main center pawn. What does MBL come up with in this position? It's a brilliant sequence. Turns out the black's pieces are so undeveloped that if White can find any way to rip open the center, white's just going to have tremendous attacking potential. It's too early for knight takes G six because you reach a dead end. You don't have enough pieces in the attack. As, uh, tempting as it is to sack on G six, it's premature. You just don't have firepower. You have one piece at most. C four is correct. And VL plays C four, and he puts another attacker on the D five. Bond. Black has to give away the C four square for White's knight. But the brilliant move comes after queen C seven. It does still look like Black is more or less holding on, but in fact, this is already the beginning of the end. The rook is X raying the king. So you might be very tempted by Nike six check. Uh, but this, while an interesting pawn sacrifice, doesn't seem to produce anything concrete. But how do we set it up? We set it up with knight to D five. Very nice. Sacking the knight. And if what, black takes the knight to six is devastating, because here it's a discover check and White wins the queen. And if king E Seven, then bishop E five and Black's king is driven out and check mated, then the queen gets out. There's this very beautiful mate, but these lines are ridiculously one sided. If F six, then White takes it and drops the bishop back to, uh, F four, winning the queen. So MVL could not or DeGrave didn't take it. But that allowed the knight to infiltrate b six. Then the bishop came out and this game lasts like three more moves. MVL brings all of his pieces out and Degrade resigned in, uh, this position without awaiting White's next move, which I think is Knight takes D seven. Then it takes C three and Bishop takes G six, winning all of the pieces on the board. So that's how one side of this game was and how powerful these C four ideas can be. Okay, so now let's go back to the, uh, speedrun game. And C four is, as I refer to it, one type of category of plans and closed positions, which is just to reopen the position. The other category is to keep the center closed and kind of worm your way around the center and play on the flanks. This is kind of category one. And C four is just incredibly powerful. The engine confirms it. By the way, this is crushing. Queen takes B two, we play CD, we play Bishop F five, and we play DC. Just completing our plan. Maybe not the best way to play. In fact, if you run this into an engine, the engine will often give these sort of slow moves, these weirdly slow moves. So here, for instance, the recommendation is A four, which actually crossed my mind. The idea is to play A five and cut off the queen's escape route. And if CD, then you can play Bishop F five and then CD. And in this position, even Knight takes D four as crushing because the queen is suddenly in a lot of trouble. The, ah, knight's getting into B five. So it's kind of a move that grabs space. It's almost a waiting move because Black literally has no good way to resolve the central tension. And in the event of a trade like this, white brings the other night out to F three. This pawn and A four could act as a very nice little push for the attack. Yeah, it's like plus two at this moment. It's like plus two. So we decided on a more primitive approach, just sort of fully opening the center. And I will admit that after Bishop D four, Queen A three, E six, there was a move that I had missed from a distance. And this was literally the only move for Black to play. This is the move F six. This was forced. Black had to keep the center as closed as possible because after rook G eight, there is nothing left to talk about. This is just absolute and total devastation. But if Black had played F six despite the sort of flimsy appearance of Black's position, it's not easy for us to actually crash through. In fact, I think that White needs to be quite careful here not to be worse. I like the look of the move knight to H four attacking F, uh five. And if Bishop takes E six, then we can sneak the knight into G six, exploiting some of the weak squares on the king side to chip away at Black's defensive construction. And then we can play 97. And if we can bring the king out, then we actually have this move, queen to f three, incredibly strong move with the idea of the intermezzo on c five. So this is all very, very hard to defend, but if you flip on the engine, it gives some sort of weird engine move. Queen D three, bishop drops back 94. I mean, things do get pretty messy here. Ultimately you get some sort of a liquidation in an endgame and white is slightly better, but black holds on with bishop takes d six. So f six, believe it or not, it does appear and somebody should run the engine here at a higher depth to find out the truth. But f six might have kept Black very much in the game position, might be objectively about equal. So you could say that the strategy that we started with bishop takes f five was a small, was maybe not a big mistake, but a small mistake apparently. Here we also could have played a move like rook to B one, sacking a second pawn, and now queen C one, another typical engine idea. And now rook a one traps the queen. So the idea again is to play against black's queen, force it back, but now we can play DC. That's the other reason we put the queen on c one to protect the c five one. So I think it's a good idea to analyze with engines in these types of positions because you get a better sense of really cool ideas that are available that you could apply at a later point. So some people were suggesting e six, and I think it is an interesting pawn sack if you follow it up with rookie one just attacking e six and trying to open up the e file, which is one of the biggest things that white can do for his attack. But I wasn't totally sure. After night f six, the pawn is defended, but now you also get the juicy e five square. So definitely this would be an excellent way for white to play. Here there is a ridiculous tactic, knight DC four, and after the trade, the queen is trapped because if queen b four, then rugby one, queen c three, rugby three traps the queen of queen b five, there's a fork. If queen c three, there's the quiet or ah rug c one, rugby one and rugby three traps the queen. So just an assortment of ridiculous ideas. Black actually has to go queen b five here and then take on d six with the knight and black gets three pieces for the queen. But white should still be better because all of black's pieces are totally discombobulated and the king side is quite weak. So e six was a very interesting alternative, just sacking the pond and opening up the center, an idea that you do see in a lot of different openings in the Perk. You see that often in the Perk and the modern in the bishops e four lines. There's a lot of lines here, and I'm giving you just an abstraction where, like, you drive the pawn up to east. I guess this is not a sacrifice, but it's the same type of idea. You're just blasting open the center, you're throwing the grenade in, and then you're picking it up later. In many cases, um, in any case, our opponent made a grave error with rookie g eight. This just served us up with a very straightforward way to get the king into the open with all of our pieces participating. If king e eight here, then I would have taken and now I like the look of a quiet move like rook eight to c one, just bringing another piece into the attack, as I had discussed earlier. And now for, for example, queen f seven is already winning because you have the additional check on c six and takes. And now takes. That's the beauty of putting a rook on c one. You never know when it's going to serve you well, but it's never going to hurt to bring another piece into the attack. This was nominally more resilient, I think. Here the game is largely over and our opponent did resign what I thought was a little bit prematurely, but the position is just disgusting. And as I had shown after bishop d seven, I think the simplest is to go rook AC one and then to play a move like knight to g six or even without rook AC one, you could just go night g six straight away. And the game is over. The game is over because everything is hanging. Black has no ability to defend anything. This is just checkmate. I mean, just look at this position. Literally, we're attacking everything. We can go rugby one, we can go rookie one. There's many ways to win, but these types of moves which just pick off a ton of material, are oftentimes the most clinical and the least risky. So you could dig around here on your own if you want a better kind of sense of why this is as lost as it is. But you should just understand that it's not even the threat of checkmate. White is not threatening checkmate here. It's just that the general nature of black's pieces makes the position totally indefensible. Okay, so another successful fantasy outing. Very nice. We're building up quite a quite a few nice games in the fantasy. Hope you enjoyed these I'm also losing my voice. Hope you enjoyed these games games. Hope you enjoyed the speedrun today and hopefully see you tomorrow for title Tuesday. Bye.