(birds chirping) (gentle music playing) - I'm looking into North Korea and it's kind of surreal. I'm up here on a rooftop, and I'm seeing two giant flag poles. (gentle music playing) I mean, that is a massive flag pole. You go over this wall, and you're not actually You're in a no man's land, a four-mile-thick demilitarized zone that effectively comprises the border. I came to this border because I want to understand I'm tired of watching this. - The intensifying - The North Koreans They're in the mood of - Getting one very about what this conflict is about. - Rogue regime (indistinct) - Nuclear testing is a big deal. - Another nuclear test at any time. - Who it's between, why it exists. - The missile that North Koreans launched is something the US has never seen before. - Kim's stockpile of nuclear weapons. - Capable of hitting the - Instead I want to see it for myself, to talk to the people who a city of 10 million people from this border. I hear there's a lot of bomb shelters and so I want to go see So I want to show you what it looks like, what it feels like, and most importantly, how it got here. (fast music playing) Not fed through western diplomacy, military policy and media coverage, but rather what it actually (fast music playing) (gentle music playing) I'm drowning in some I've ever touched in my life which are original and Kim Il-Sung. I've got a ton of this stuff, and frankly, it's very, very useful for this line that divided What I first need to do who made this ambitious video possible. CoPilot is a platform where coach one-on-one. It's like a personalized coach, and you get to craft a fitness I went through the whole with a coach. Hey Donny, it's a pleasure to meet you. - Is there any injury, things or pains that I need to be cognizant of? - Then I got to have my first workout. It shows me what I'm supposed to do. The best part about this is Like what I can actually do, how much time I actually CoPilot makes it so much into your life. - What are you using? - I forgot my dumbbells, here in the studio. So much of what we hear transforming how you look. What I love about CoPilot, it's about consistent movement how your mind works and what I am so in line with those values. After a workout, I could let them know if something was off or if I wanted to change the focus. Workout was good today, I do wish that there was more. And I could get a response with additional feedback workouts. You get unlimited back with your coach and it's really amazing. So if this sounds interesting to you, you can get 14 days for free and health coach at the It's go.mycopilot.com/JohnnyHarris. Clicking that link helps but it also gets you in on to start your journey with CoPilot. I've loved it and I think you will too. So with that, let's get back to North Korea. This line, this peninsula, we've all heard something about it. I studied this line a lot in at the think tank I worked at. But for this story, I wanted to throw out all of that perspective. I wanted to approach it with a new lens, one not steeped in the of American foreign policy, So let me show you my new came to be. Korea was an independent, unified place until the early it as part of their conquest of Asia. Then the world responded this growing empire. That's World War II. The winners of the war got we just liberated Korea from Japan. But no, they are not ready The two most powerful allies occupy half of the peninsula Then Koreans could have this whole peninsula. Most Koreans, of course, hated this more colonizers as a military base, but the So late one night in 1945, right before Japan surrendered, together here in the Pentagon This map actually. This is a 1942 National Geographic map that these two military They eyeballed this peninsula here at 38 North. It's like a latitude line. And surprisingly to - 38 parallel border of North Korea. - With this line the Americans which was Korea's capital which they did by just like 40 kilometers. Oh, and just to be clear here, this line, the 30th parallel wasn't It wasn't a linguistic or cultural border. But again, the whole idea was that this was just going to be temporary. It's going to last five years. Two great powers dividing What could go wrong? Okay, so what's the deal and the United States in this moment? You have to remember that they were allies after World War II, because they had fought a to crush the Nazi empire in Europe. And then the Soviets kind of last second to to the Japanese empire. So these two superpowers were friends. I mean, I have direct proof of this. Check out a picture of my on the Korean peninsula. He's standing right up here on the border between the Soviet Union and Korea, and he's hanging out with a big smile on his face. The Soviets and Americans were allies, they were friends, they But very quickly they started actually weren't friends differently about how And in fact, now that other big the entire world was now a their moves to ensure that their ideology would become the new way of the world. Yes, we want to give Korea the Soviet Union and the United States, but will it be an American or a Soviet friendly communist society? Meanwhile, the local Koreans, at least most of them But there was one Korean the new leader of the Soviet who was a war guy, he rose up as a fighter in and was picked to then lead Kim wanted to unite the with force, but he couldn't do that without supporters, mainly this guy Joseph Stalin. And this is where the evidence - Among communists. Kim is the last to maintain - Okay, check these out. These are telegrams and and Kim Il-Sung. I mean, this is like when conversations in the original which have since been archives in Moscow. You learn more from this or any master's degree because this is like the horse's mouth. This is what they were actually saying. You start to get the first would start to play out. The logic, the calculations, Okay, so it's 1949. Kim Il-Sung immediately goes and weapons to invade the south, to unite the peninsula Not surprisingly Stalin is winning out on the Korean peninsula. But you read these conversations kind of freaked out. The Americans are there, and a direct conflict with these for another global war. Plus China, which is is currently in a big civil war. They're not going to be able So Stalin basically says no. But then the next year, 1950 (suspense music playing) Stalin sends a note to &quot;ready to help him in this matter,&quot; tells him to come to Moscow. Thing number one, Stalin got intel from one that South Korea wasn't that And if that there was an invasion, the Americans probably US troops were leaving the peninsula. Thing number two, and this is a big freaking deal. Stalin says it right here, that quote, &quot;the USSR ending, the US' atomic monopoly. That changes everything. And thing number three, and again, we see this Stalin says to Kim, in one of these meetings, the communist in China had They control China now. They're not busy with the Civil War, and they'll be able to help With these three major developments, Stalin now feels secure to &quot;challenge the communists in Asia.&quot; It would be an easy victory. Oh, and at the end of Stalin is like, side we will give you weapons, but we're not going to send troops. Go ask Mao for those, which So do you see what's happening here? This is like Cold War like crash course. It is spies. Prevailing mood is not It is global ideological alliances. China's victory is also And it is nuclear deterrence. The USSR now has the atomic bomb. The seeds of the Cold War are sprouting. - After three years of preparation, the Soviet Union and its North Troops and military equipment - So then early one it happened some 75,000 across this line, a line that two American military earlier. - June 25th, 1950, the communist strike. - And as Kim Il-Sung predicted, his troops quickly took over But Stalin's calculation was wrong. Back in Washington, President Truman wasn't going the Korean peninsula. - The future of civilization on what we do now. - He got ready for war, bypassing Congress to prepare together to come to Korea's rescue. - Like obstacles, United Nations forces drive border of North Korea. - The details of what and frankly, I have no these details in school. This was a brutal and long The entire peninsula was ripped apart, but an important detail for this story is what the US Air force - The versatility of Air Forces - With their new jet powered aircraft. They quickly established an unfathomable amount of Like it's hard to quantify, the US Air Force dropped in this three year period than Pacific Theater of World War II. - After identifying their targets, our planes swooped down like avenging, shadows of death and destruction. - The US Air Force targeted villages, towns, buildings, factories, and very importantly dams. - US carrier based planes take off, their target the vital south of the Yalo River. - Unleashing a flood of water and killed the water supply to to an excruciatingly slow who started living in a to escape the bombardment - An advance whose purpose to seize ground, but - In the end, 85% of all buildings in 85%. - Communists have finally all out war of conflict. - Now, wait, I know what you're with this conflict, which is got slammed. It wasn't just the north, the north and the south. Seoul was turned to dust as well. This was a horrifying war. The reason I'm highlighting and the aerial bombardment of the north is because what the US Air Force did here, this memory became a foundational It would go on to inform the to this day. This memory would not fade. This horrific war went on when they signed a ceasefire of the war where it was on the The agreement was to take this buffer on each side, declaring it a zone where no A de-militarized zone. So where I'm standing now the DMZ. No military stuff allowed buffer zone up here, North and these borders are and militarized lines on our planet. After the war, the American and since then, there have been on this peninsula. Oh, and crucially, the US stored nuclear during the Cold War, providing South Korea with the into a thriving, advanced democracy, helping them build their country and pain of this war. And like I said earlier, They didn't move on. They stayed fixated on what years of horror, continuing to build up underground bunkers and tunnels. And over the course of decades, their Soviet supporters of nuclear energy that by 2006 North Korea becoming the eighth destructive weapons in the world. And as the Soviet Union support, North Korea used in the conversation to ensure that they would in this situation again. (gentle music playing) As one historian from North Korea never forgot the lessons of their vulnerability and that the long term of the war on the whole cannot be overestimated. The war against the United factor, gave North Koreans a and fear of outside threats the wars end. North Korea keeps this imagery. There's actually a museum that's dedicated to the by the United States. You walk into this place and like paintings of Americans to North Koreans. I'm not going to show you because it is gruesome and horrifying. Oh and the target audience of this museum, Children. Every year young children make to witness these images their hatred for the United States, and their desire for revenge Keeping alive this memory from the 1950s. The regime keeps this memory scared and oppressed, Back in Seoul. Every few years, North Korea comes out and and willing to turn this or a pile of ashes, and frankly, they have the tools to do it. Up here on this border, there are over 10,000 at this city. These guns have a range which put Seoul very much in range. Luckily, people in this city are ready. There are over 3000 throughout Seoul, and that is Luckily, the government made of Seoul where all of Wait, this is the bomb shelter. I mean, I guess we're underground, but like barely. I got to talk to one of these shop owners, see what they think. Did you know that this I guess is the question. (speaking Korean) - That one was just a shopping mall. Come on, let's go Wait, so the next bomb shelter What? So did you know that - I didn't know that. - So this is it. This is the bomb shelter. The basement of this apartment complex. Let's go visit another one I guess. We've reached another shelter. Now I'm really in a bomb shelter. Oh, actually it's just What is this? If we had to rush down Is there extra food? Is there some way to seal it don't get down here? No. It's literally an Not retrofitted, not special in any way. I'm starting to lose faith shelters are anything but just that have signs on them that Do these people not realize from North Korea? - I'm making a video about sort of North Korea, which is like. Have you ever thought of like what you would - Oh. - No. - You don't. (speaking Korean) - I've actually never thought about it. (speaking Korean) (speaking Korean) (speaking Korean) - We just hate the regime and oh my God. I can't do this. I hate pigeons so much. - Are you more afraid of - Yeah. Where were we? - We were talking about. As I told you, I've lived here for my whole testing nuclear weapons, but like we don't really care. - Now listen, let me just be frank, I'm slightly playing up my ignorance here. I kind of knew that this was the case, but I also kind of didn't, as an American who studied this conflict through an American foreign policy lens, my hunt for bomb shelters and with locals drove home just actually think about North Korea. - I don't think I've ever met really worried about that. (speaking Korean) - Kim Jong-un doesn't do They do this to threaten the military that turned in the 1950s, the country that they are Back up here at the border, you can see what the conflict between north and south. There's occasional violence, but the conflict today Who can build the largest flag pole? Who can blast the loudest North Korea comically building prosperous and a competition You realize that it's not to be here. If anything, it's just plain sad. It's sad to see 70 years of this standoff, this needless standoff that was created by powerful outsiders. And once again, what we see is that the people and culture and language, but are divided, continue to be the ones (birds chirping) After my time in the DMZ, I decided to set aside the just for a moment to Not as an American taught in terms of conflict, but to experience it as the The people here in this from the devastation of the 50s, a city that has moved on. It is a Saturday night the sun is going down. I spent the night traversing this city, immersing myself in what it has to offer, from the nightclubs to barbecue, to small underground clubs, watching DJ competitions and sipping soju. Then to a street party in where a bunch of young the forced eviction and planned demolition of this historic pub, One of Seoul's oldest institutions They've been doing this Yes, North Korea is 40 kilometers away. I'm very aware of that. There's a real threat here, a dangerous oppressive But the threat presents very here, much differently an ocean away. I walked away from Korea with of this conflict. This conflict that was fueled by Cold War dynamics between North Korea and the (gentle music playing) Thank you for watching this video. I'm really looking And once again, I want to thank the I'm two weeks into my this platform that allows me with a fitness coach. And I can tell you it is in just accountability. And I'm not alone in this, CoPilot clients are nine at sticking with their goals, and that's not surprising to me. So go click link in my with your own expert Thank you CoPilot for Thank you all for watching. I will see you in the next one. Okay. (gentle piano music playing)