What's the impact you want My impact would be, people learn from me in a way that they are empowered So that when they think of what they they no longer think of me. They think of their own base and so that I become irrelevant. Because if people say then I've failed. That's not how you teach someone. That's teaching by authority. I want to teach you how Then you say "I have a new way and you can just run off, because a new level of hunger has descended upon you and methods and tools to feed that hunger So my impact would be that others are impacted and they don't even remember On my tombstone, I want the epitaph &quot;BE ASHAMED TO DIE UNTIL YOU HAVE And the victory for humanity It's not statues, it's not your name, It's just humanity is better off. Any of us, I think, should want for you having lived in it. That doesn't mean people praising you. Not even about that. But what do you have to give with no expectation of return? No one ever told me that I had to search Many people look for meaning in life as though it's going to be And I'm thinking to myself, You have more power than that. You have the power rather than passively look for it. So for me, I create the meaning. Meaning to me is, do I know more about That enhances meaning for me. By whatever powers I have available to me, Or the corollary to that would be, have I enhanced the life of others? And I don't mean, have I devoted Then I would be ignoring myself. But if there's some small that can completely add value I'm going to do it. Because the leveraging into the happiness or enlightenment I'd be irresponsible if I did not. If Einstein were here we could talk for hours and hours. You know what question would never Is, "what college did you go to?" I want to go to that same College. I bet most of your people It's not about what college they went to, It's about their own initiative, their own ambitions, their own curiosity. That is not taught in school. Sadly. School, they view you that they pour information in and you test it over here, you get a high grade, you're praised. Is that who become the shakers I don't think so. School should as a minimum If you lost some of it, put it back in. So that when you graduate school, you can give literal meaning Commencement means beginning; And so, you leave school, you say to yourself, I now have a curiosity of all things and I will now become a lifelong learner. Without that, you become ossified at whatever was the body of knowledge and you will lead a life without continuing to grow who What was it about your dad that impacted you For me, at least, it was, did he glean in his life and then successfully either by example For example, in high school he was in gym class, and they were lining up, and they were about to enter and it was track and field, and the gym instructor pointed &quot;Cyril Tyson, everyone, look at him. He does not have the body type They used him as an example. And he says, what? No one is going to tell me ... in my life, and he used that as the reason And he started track in that moment. He decided that one of his next tasks and excel at it. Within a few years of that, At one time, had the fifth fastest time they don't run this anymore, In 1948, the Olympics was not yet because we're still reeling, roiling Instead, there was still an Olympics and it was held in Hitler's Stadium. So he competed in Hitler's Stadium That's just one of the great But the reason I'm saying all of that is they were competing against In the day, once you graduated college, you needed some sanctioning body So there were athletic clubs. The New York Athletic Club, at the time, accepted only white Protestants. So there's another club which took everybody who was not accepted which was basically Blacks and Jews. It's really what that came down to. And his best friend, Johnny Johnson, was coming around the back stretch, might've been the quarter-mile, coming on the final straightaway, and a runner from the York Athletic Club, and Johnny Johnson overhears And he overheard this. So what did he say to himself? He said: &quot;this is what, That extended his lead And he tells this story, So he never had that kind of tone It was, here's an occasion to parlay what today might be called into a reason to excel even more of your own abilities and talents. And so I have taken that lesson with me. I met Carl Sagan when I was 17. I was applying to colleges. I had been accepted at Cornell, but I didn't know what college and the admissions office saw that I didn't know this. They'd forwarded my application to him I was already deep in the universe And he sent me a letter. He doesn't know me from Adam. I'm a 17-year-old kid from the Bronx; he's a professor of astronomy And I get this letter, &quot;I understand you like Do you want to come visit the campus to help you decide if you want It was like, wow! This is... Now, he hadn't done<i> That's how old I am. But he was already famous, so I took him up on it. I took a bus up to Ithaca, New York. He met me outside his building Invited me up to his office. Saw the labs. I'm there, in front of me he did He reached back, didn't even look, grabbed a book off the shelf. I thought that was the baddest, Don't even have to look, Yeah, Okay, here! And he signed it to me. Neil Tyson, future astronomer, Later in the day. I'm ready It begins to snow as it does often and he says, here's my home number. If the bus can't get through spend the night with my family I'm thinking, who am I? Why? I'm nobody. But I was somebody to him. And I said to myself, if I'm ever I will treat students the way How do I create meaning My first question of me wasn't, it was how do I create meaning, and that started early. Early teens. Did you help your kids with this? Is that something that you found a way or pass down so that they would be asking instead of doing the sort of wander Yeah. I have an unorthodox approach We discussed this, my wife and I, that in however they were raised, that they retained the curiosity Let's say there's a little toddler It comes up, and they start grabbing this. No, don't touch that! This was an experiment waiting to happen This is a cup that has water in it, okay? This is breakable. The kid doesn't know that. They want to experiment. So they'll grab it. It'll fall. Water will spill all over. That was an experiment They are experimenting Everything is new to them. I saw a woman walking with their kid. The kid has galoshes on and a raincoat on, and they're coming down the walkway, and this is a big, juicy, muddy And I said, &quot;please let the kid You know the kid wants to jump The kid is like three or four, you know, and what does the mother do? She pulls the kid around That's an experiment in cratering. That's what had craters happen that way. You splash the water; you get to see the cause downward force operating on a fluid. Gone, that was a bit of curiosity So with our kids, curiosity, provided it does not kill them, if it meant we had extra work I would do that extra work. And I have pretty high confidence through the turbulent middle school years And what is an adult scientist but a kid who's never lost the curiosity? We live in a very fractured world today. But what is clear is that and social media, have enabled You might go your whole life without ever finding another person You go online, and you see them all, and they have conventions, even if it's only virtual. So you have ways to say why And I don't know that that's always In a pluralistic land, you want rather than go out of your way and then claim one group You can draw a line in the sand between people who transgress from those who transgress and do. So the coach who said, &quot;catch that ...&quot; doesn't have power over Johnny Johnson. Unless you allow him to. There's a famous quote "You can only be ridden When I grew up, it was very common "Sticks and stones can break my bones, You recited this.This is what When you said, oh, you know, and it's "sticks and stones can break And so this was an inoculation Against just evil people, You were able to develop a set, against unpleasant people out there. And I haven't heard that phrase What I think has happened over the years that words can be hurtful. I don't have a problem with that. This is an enlightened new place to understand the role and how it interacts That's an advance in mental health. What I see on the flip side people are less able to deal who are around today, who are calling you names. The people who might be bullying you by saying things about you. I don't know that we have other than seeing a counselor I can say from the era in which I grew up, &quot;I don't give a rat's ass Unless you are between me and some goal, then I have to navigate that someway. If there's a racist person or a person with some kind I want to know that, actually. I don't want them to hide that. I want you to say everything Then I'll say, &quot;Ok, that's who you are, So, now, what do I need to do? Do I dig under you, go around you, or do I go this way and then Yes, longer. It's more effort, but on some level, I think we should all get but if you don't get the highest no one should be standing If you have some other ambitions that have pathways that don't get that other people are referencing. When you approach a topic what is your actual process to learn? Thank you. Great question. I read things that take me to places If I'm an educator, I want to know that, because when you're speaking to me, I can navigate your receptors I don't have to have you That's not right. You're the curious person. So I'm going to meet you What I do for the public, is driven by duty, not by ambition. What gives you the sense of duty? Because I can do something, and it's for a greater good in society, I would be irresponsible if I did not. Subtitles by the Amara.org community