(audience applauding) - Now that is weighty, that is heavy. - Yes. - I feel like when you do drink - No. (audience laughing) - By Dre And Snoop, Still - Yeah, don't drop it, don't drip it. - Okay. Can I try it? - We should put some juice with it though. You know, gin is right... There you go. - Oh, okay, okay. Look, I'm game. - I see you are, Kelly, you jumping the gun. - Slow down, baby. (audience laughing) I miss you too. (Snoop chuckles) - Put it in there. I know, the last time What are you? What, come on. (audience laughing) - You want more? (audience applauding) - I wanna taste it. I wanna taste it. I was like, are you saving it for someone? - No. - Oh, that's good! - Right? - And you do know that. - Yeah, and you do know that. So wait, we're celebrating, do you get into Halloween? - I really do, I dress up. I like to be different, 'cause I'm so recognizable. So I try to be characters like, that ain't Snoop Dogg in there. (audience laughing) - So I have to show this picture, because we found this picture and look, it's hard to see, but... (audience exclaiming) Well. And if you look closely, it says Batgirl. (audience laughing) This is like what I feel like happens when you forgot to get a costume, you run out, you're out of- - [Snoop] No. - This was planned. - I can explain that to you, Kelly. (audience laughing) - That's me and my beautiful - Yeah. (audience applauding) - And at that particular time, Moms didn't have no money so we went over to her cousin's house, which is my cousin, and she had a daughter who had extra costumes. - [Kelly] Yeah. - So I didn't look to see if I just wanted to put a costume on, so I ran and put it on and said, &quot;Look, Mom, I got a costume on!&quot; And they took a picture (audience laughing) (audience applauding) - That's amazing. So you also started a which is incredible, tell us about that before I get to this really Tell us about how that started. - I started the Snoop Youth we just wanted to put football in the community, try to give back and give opportunities to those parents who really and we made it about education. Every kid on our football program had to have a certain and then looking over the we have put 40 kids in the NFL. - That's what I was gonna say! I found out... Like C.J. Stroud, Dobbs, - Yes. - Did you ever think that You're doing it for a certain but that's incredible that these... Like C.J. Stroud, like are coming out of it. - You know what, Kelly, when I started, I didn't do it for that reason, but I have a song called where it was about us... You know, when we play football, we like to make beats on our pads, and at the end of the song &quot;To all of my future NFL stars,&quot; and then I think back to me saying that, to actually there are NFL - Yes! A powerful manifester. That's amazing. So you have an ability to connect with so many people, like there's not one person And I think you turn people on to a genre that maybe they weren't aware of, even when I was a kid, I remember from my childhood and even now, you're just so lovable and How do you... Do that just come naturally? Have you always been that and kind of befriends everyone? - I don't think it's I think it's just my energy. You know, I was raised by a mother who made me go outside and play. - Yeah, me too. - She made me, you know, when we would go to other people's houses, you couldn't be in the house, get outside and go meet go mingle, go interact. And that was always a giving me that, because I'm able to be in any room and I'm able to mix and match because we're all people, no matter what color you are, what race, where you come from, deep down inside, you a and supposed to be able to communicate. - Yeah. (audience applauding) I think you're just authentically you, which is refreshing. A lot of people try and hide or have some kind of... You know, there's some guys, and it's not really who they are. I think it's because everywhere you go, and I think But everyone started this summer at the Olympics and how does that feel? - That made me feel good. - Okay. the journey and the path that I've been on to get to the part of and love for what I do. But that's growth, and I've been an open book, I've been able to share my life to the whole world from day one, I never tried to hide anything. So when I made mistakes, it was okay. So now that I'm getting it - Yeah, and a great testimony for others. Well, we have to do a few commercials. Warren's gonna help us out. - Hi, Kelly, and Snoop, you know the joy of being a grandpa, I'm expecting my first grand kid, and I can't wait to have that energy of a child in my life again. - [Kelly] Aw. - I'm gonna dangle him on my knee, I'm gonna hold him in Katz's Window. - Yeah. - [Warren] I'm gonna give him my all then I'm gonna hand him back to his moms. - Yes! - Stay here! Kelly has more with Papa Snoop after this! (audience applauding) - All right, we are back with Snoop Dogg! (audience applauding) That was a look at this which you can see Mondays I saw you in Paris and we but you're loving &quot;The Voice,&quot; right? You're loving it. - I'm loving every second of &quot;The Voice.&quot; I love the coaches, the artists. I didn't know it would be that fun, I'm gonna be honest with you, Kelly. I signed up not really and the relationship Gwen, and Michael Boobly-Woobly. (audience laughing) - I was telling you this He's so quick. me and him, it feel like it's like we've been lost and (audience laughing) - Yeah. Michael Buble's daughter every day in kindergarten class. - Yes. (audience exclaiming) - How'd that feel when you found that out? - Man, that made me almost cry, because I made those records for my grand kids and for to have a piece of me that was rated G. (audience laughing) The other G. - What do you mean? (audience applauding) - So we started making these records and started doing these visuals, and started creating these characters and these live action It's like there's people in elementary school all around the world and Michael Buble came to the set, and he was like, &quot;Man, my and they listen to it every day. I'm like, &quot;You lying.&quot; And we sung it together and it just touched me, it was so adorable that this music that I'm making is really reaching the - Yeah, it's incredible. And you probably never doing anything like- - Never. - [Kelly] Exactly. - Never. (audience laughing) So I heard that you and Dre (audience wooing) (audience applauding) I'm just saying. - Well, I can tell you that to it is done. (audience cheering) - I'm very excited! I mean, we're even showing it's gotta be so different though, y'all starting out, like You were like a teenager when you first started. - Yeah, right? - And he's, I don't know, five, six years older than you, I think, and now you guys are older, and it's like you're probably you're different in the studio, what is it like now - Now it's like growth and development. We still have a musicianship, but it's so much that we've been through in the life that we've been living, and then it's so much we can as far as how we got to where we got to, and then there's things that we did that we should prevent you from doing, and it's information, it's like music has and any time you got two great people that work together very well, we gonna give you a great that's gonna carry you through like the rest of the We made records that last it's time for another one. Because the life that I'm living, the way that I'm being I need a record to match that energy. And some of my old records because I'm not that person that I am now. - Yeah, we grow, you know, hopefully. Well, if you're doing it right, but yeah. - Well, if you put water especially the plants I got. - Yeah. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) So Questlove was just here and we were talking about how, you know, he was like, &quot;What &quot;and didn't do,&quot; you know he had the courage to do jazz is what we were talking about with him. And I have to ask, you also have a jazz 'Cause you feel like this guy that literally somebody could You just say what you and it doesn't matter what you're like, I just wanna do it. But you're doing jazz, right? I don't have that fear - I don't either. Who cares? Yeah! - When I make music or I make projects or things that feel good to me, it's because I feel like you want them, I feel like they're for you. I'm just a vessel to and you can't provide it, - Yeah. - So I feel like the records that I make are an expression of the or do what I do, but when I make those records, they turn into me when they so I'm a piece of them because I can't do it without you, I'm inspired by y'all, and care about me enough to say, let me make a record 'cause that's the foundation of who I am, Snoop Dogg is a rapper first. - Yeah. - All this other stuff that's happening, that's on the back burner. This is the initial so let me get you back first and foremost. - Yeah. I love too, I think you're doing a disservice if you are afraid to Like, to make a jazz I think it's a disservice, 'cause I think the industry because you are a rapper but at the same time, I - [Snoop] Right. - And you know, you don't every damn time, you know what I'm saying? You wanna try something new, and it brings out a You've done so many things so far. Is there anything you wanna - Skinny dipping at the- - You have skinny dipped, you liar! (audience laughing) - I have, 'cause I am skinny. (all laughing) - I was like, you've - Nah, I haven't. I'm scared to show myself like that. (audience laughing) I can't even... I don't have enough fingers to tell you how many times I've skinny... 'Cause you know, you and you're like, this is a good plan. (audience laughing) - But see, I wanna get to that I'm too cool for that. - Oh. You gotta do it with fun people too, not Nervous Nellies about, oh, my body. Who cares? We're all our own lead Okay, so nobody cares. - I get that. - Yeah. And gravity's funny. (Snoop and audience laughing) You know, the older we get, Anyway, we need another break. Snoop and I will play because that totally makes sense. All right, we are back and Snoop Dogg is here, and not only is Snoop part on &quot;The Voice&quot; this season, only on NBC and Peacock, He's also a big sports guy, so it's time for a game... He's dancing. So it's time for a game that combines a little music knowledge with our pure, raw athletic abilities. (audience laughing) This is Balls, Balls, Balls. - [Snoop] What? Balls, Balls, Balls Balls, balls, balls, balls, balls (audience applauding) - Pause. - Just one more time, again Balls, Balls, Balls Balls, balls, balls, balls, balls - Pause. - Balls. (laughs) Let's welcome our game commissioner, you know her as the host of NBC Sports' &quot;Football Night In America&quot; say hello to Maria Taylor. (audience applauding) So thank you for hosting. - Thank you. Did you save some gin for me or no? - I drank it all. - I thought so, okay. Well, thank you for hosting. So wait, tell us the rules. I lost this last time, I feel, yeah. - You did lose Balls, Balls, Balls, but that's why we're Here's the game, Snoop, you must shoot your balls, balls, balls. - Oh, wow. - You're blue balls in this case. Into the grid that you see before you. The first person to get vertically, horizontally, and before each shot, about music or sports. If you get it right, you You know where that is, Kelly. If you are wrong, you shoot - [Kelly] Yep. - That's where the three - Yep, yep, yep. - Now if we're out of time, where you both shoot - Okay. - And Kelly, you're up first. - [Kelly] Oh, great. - You ready? - [Maria] Your questions - [Kelly] Yeah. - I looked at them. - I already can't do that. - We're starting with &quot;The Voice.&quot; On &quot;The Voice,&quot; which coach in 25 seasons? - Is that me? - [Maria] Yes. - Oh, yes! Whoo! No pressure. Oh wait, so I'm here? - Yes. Okay, okay, okay, okay. (drum rolling) - [Snoop] Good shot. - [Kelly] Okay. (audience applauding) - Good shot, that was hard. - Thank you. You see my spin? this is for you. What Snoop and Dre song led for a specific brand of alcohol? - &quot;Gin And Juice?&quot; (bell dings) - Laid back. - With my mind on my money. (drum rolling) Oh, you did a granny- (all exclaiming) (audience applauding) Oh, I'm feeling good now. - The granny shot. - I like it. He's looking out for you. - Okay, he's being nice. - Okay, Kelly. - I love you, Kelly. - Name two past or present Dallas Cowboys starting quarterbacks. You love The Cowboys. (Kelly chuckles) Just two. - Dak Prescott. - Okay. Wait, you said previous? - Past or present, anyone. - Oh, Troy Aikman, okay. - Okay, there you go. - Okay, yeah. - Oh, look at you, work then. - Okay, okay, okay. (drum rolling) - [Kelly] No, no! (audience exclaiming) - All right. - Whatever. - We got a ball game, (Snoop laughs) - [Kelly] Whatever. - Snoop, what legendary quarterback was the first to win both This person did play for The Steelers. So the first person to and then the first quarterback - That's Terry Lamont Bradshaw. - [Maria] There you go! (audience applauding) Oh, oh, oh, oh. (audience applauding) - [Kelly] Okay, okay, okay. - [Maria] The form is excellent. - The form is good, yeah. - Yes, okay. - Okay, Kelly, in Whitney Houston's &quot;I Wanna Dance With Somebody,&quot;- - Yep. - When the clock strikes upon the hour what does the sun do? On the hour and the sun begins to fade (bell dings) - Yes. (audience applauding) Okay, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay, okay. (drum rolling) (audience applauding) No, that's not gonna help me. - You're blocking me, Kelly. - I mean, okay, defense. - You're blocking me, girl. what is the name of the and a theme park who is the only artist to have a top 20 hit- - I'm not even gonna let you finish. Dolly Parton. (audience laughing) (bell dings) - Okay, no pressure. - Here we go, here we go. (drum rolling) - I love you, Dolly. Dollywood. Dollywood, Dolly, Dolly, Dollywood. (audience applauding) - [Kelly] Okay, okay, okay. - [Snoop] Defense. (horn blowing) - Oh, was that the horn? - It's time for the lightning round. - No! - That means you guys just - Wait, okay. (audience laughing) (Kelly screams) - No way! (audience applauding) I didn't know it started. (upbeat music) - Let's go, let's go, let's go. Come on, Snoop. (air horn blowing) - [Kelly] Oh, I got it, I got it! Is it four? - [Maria] Oh, Kelly won! - I won! (audience applauding) I didn't even know I got it. I didn't even know. (air horn blowing) - How? - I didn't even know I got it. - You did it. - Wait a minute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. - [Maria] What? - Tic, tac, toe. - Wrong game, Snoop. Wrong game. All right, good game, Snoop. Thank you to Maria Taylor for hosting. (audience applauding) Be sure to watch Snoop on &quot;The Voice&quot; Mondays and NBC and Peacock and check out his G.I.N gin as well as- - Balls, balls, balls, balls, balls. - As well as his line in stores now. - Balls, balls, balls, balls. with Kylie Minogue!