- [Narrator] The Wood Powermatic, Titebond, and - It's hard to believe that I've been in this new garage space and one of the last remaining things that I wanted to change was this alcove. The previous installed They were really tall, really deep, great for long-term storage but for woodworking it I need easy access to things. This is what I came up with. Let me give you the tour. In the right bank of cabinets, As you can see, a whole bunch of trays. In some cases for storing some things, I prefer a shallow tray over a drawer because it's actually The left bank of cabinets is but pretty easy to make still. I've got a bunch of drawers here. These are deeper but not too deep like the built-ins I had before. When they get this deep, suddenly the drawer's but everything's on full extension slides so it comes all the way out. Over here, I've got and you could see I've got as well as these Stanley organizers. The cabinet's deep enough that this actually is two levels deep so there are four of these containers and four sustainers in this space. While not directly the space between here is sized so that I could put my drill press there, or my original plan was to just I'll give you guys a plan for this, but ultimately the measurements here are just appropriate for my space so make sure that you and make sure they make Ultimately, I want you to see and the methodology to and then you could apply that to any sized dimension cabinet that you wanna build for your shop. Let's get into it. - [Narrator] With the I can start building a flat I want the platforms to be at least three inches tall to create I set up a laser so that it's three inches on the high side of the slope. Measuring over about four feet, I can see what the height will be at the end of the first cabinet. Turns out it's four that the right platform has to taper a full inch over a length of four feet. I repeat this process This one will start at four and a quarter and end up at five and a quarter. The platforms will be made I first cut them to length and the tapers will be based on my measurements. The short support pieces and the width is taken directly I'll use screws to secure Because of the taper, there's a little extra material and I'll quickly knock that Now I'll drop the frames in place and check for level in both directions. I could then use shims to get the bubble where it needs to be. Since we're trying to it could be a little fussy and I'm probably being more but I'm here, I'm doing the work, I may as well make it Once leveled, I can attach a piece of OSB. I want the platforms to be stable, but I don't necessarily so I'll take each shim out and reinsert it with some Like many marriages, this is a stable but not At this point, the kids performance stages I Now let's get to the cabinets. I'm using three quarter inch Baltic birch. This stuff is pretty heavy so I find it easiest to cut the with a few styrofoam For the cabinet sides, try to find at least one square corner. The square sides are then to cut the panel to its final dimension. The support cleats are These will span across the side panels, bringing the whole structure together without the need for full Next, I need to cut four shallow notches and a large notch for the concrete wall into each side panel, and Using the fence in conjunction it's pretty easy to cut the notches systematically and accurately. The finished panels should Now we'll cut the dadoes and the cleats. I'll install my dado blade and bury it partially inside a sacrificial fence. The amount of dado should be the same as the The height should be set so that it leads a half inch of When the cut is perfect, the cleat will set into the notch so that it's perfectly flush. All of the cleats will We have dadoes to cut in and it's just a matter of lining up the pencil lines with the dado By the way, when cutting dadoes like this, it's best not to bring the work back over the spinning blade. If anything shifts, you'll cause it to kick back. To locate the screw holes, I pre-drill from the inside of the dado where it's really easy to find the center. On the other face, I can then use my countersink Assembly goes quickly. I use clamps to help hold the sides up and I can then drop the and attach them with glue and screws. Before adding the glue, I pre-drill into the panel Then I can slather on the glue I could just keep flipping the case, adding the cleats as I go. The bigger of the two cases with the assembly process as the same. And here comes my helper. I think most woodworking to having the kid running I may as well put her to work. Just like that, both Now let's measure for our The drawer boxes and trays will be an inch narrower than The left cabinet will and the right will feature That's a lot of small With the dado blade and I can cut rabbits in the That's the fit we're looking for. The bottom panels will be so I'll use a dado stack Quarter inch plywood so I'll need to use to get a nice snug fit. Next, I'll measure for the bottom panels. I take the inner dimensions and add three quarters of an inch since the grooves are three eighths of an inch deep. Now we can assemble. I insert the bottom panel then add the front and back pieces. I'm using brad nails to just until the glue dries. That's an old norm joke. Each drawer is pre-drilled and screwed together to reinforce the rabbit. That's one. Many more to go. And the trays, although smaller, Now we can install the slides. I like to mount slides flush That makes it easier to mount on both the drawer and the cabinet. For the drawer, I work on a flat surface and use a piece of scrap I could then extend the and drive a few screws Now I can remove the and drive the remainder of the screws. No measuring, no marking, These particular slides are from Accuride and are sold as low profile slides. That just means that they but they're still a half Installing them on the trays Now that's a gaggle of drawers, or maybe a herd, or possibly a murder. Who knows, it's a lot of drawers. Now let's install the In my plan, I decided of each drawer box. Then I cut some spacers for a repeatable way to index each slide. The slide just sits on with the front of the slide about a sixteenth of an inch back from the edge. Once the top slide is attached, I can take the top spacer off The bottom slide is mounted a quarter inch up from the bottom. Also notice how I have to because of my concrete situation. Now I just have to repeat and twice again for the right cabinet. This is the part where I think maybe I should tape these together or use thicker stock, but I persevere. Even if the fit is perfect, the drawer is always a little bit rough the first time you insert it, but once you push it in all the way, it'll slide in and out very easily and most of you who know my sense of humor know how hard I'm fighting to make a joke about this, but I won't. Must be mature! Oops, my helper's back. My mind's out of the gutter now. This is the point where I start getting excited about all of as they become a reality. It's probably a good time to attach the cabinets to the bases. Just a few screws into the bottom cleats and a few into the wall. The rightmost compartment will feature adjustable shelves. I'll use Rockler's shelf I've had this jig for over 10 years now and it has never let me down. Just line it up, hold Before building the doors, Most European cup hinges result in a door that protrudes into the opening. That means it would be and we'd have to mount on cleats in order to avoid a collision. Thankfully I found these sweet zero protrusion hinges that put the door outside of the tray's path. Just as a bonus, they kind Before we can do anything with the hinges, we'll need some doors. Sorry about the bird flip there, unless you're the person just seconds after it's posted. In that case, take it at face value. The rails and styles The panels will be quarter inch plywood so I'll cut a groove in all Two passes, flipping the will result in a perfectly centered groove of the exact width. I'll use the domino to To make assembly easier, I'll pre-glue the tenons into the rails. The inside and outside will have a nice little chamfer. The rails get the chamfer all the way across the inside edge, but the styles have to Otherwise, we'll have a which would look really weird. The panels are cut from some The assembly's pretty easy. Throw some glue in the mortises and smack everything together. After the glue is dry, I sand the entire frame and level the joints as needed. Remember how we stopped Now's the time we have to finish To install the hinges, I mark I'm not too picky about this, but I obviously have to Using the adjustable square allows me to lock in a setting and Here's a little jig that's I just line it up with my center line and pre-drill with a self-centering bit. To get the hinges in the I'll clamp a piece of scrap I can then place the door on the scrap and transfer those center lines. Whenever doing detailed work like this, I always try to think of ways that will take the stupid Quick! Look busy! Here comes the boss. To drill for the cup side of the hinge, it's Rockler to the rescue again. This is another jig I've Just line up the center line and drill. With the hinge in the hole, I square it up and then Now I can snap the hinge parts together. With the second door installed, I could see that I've got a little bit of contact in the middle, so I trim the doors down just That's much better. I originally planned on using solid alder for my drawer fronts, but the boards just aren't wide enough so I'll opt for plywood The trim will be three This means the edging will be slightly proud of the surface when it's glued to three quarter inch plywood. I start by gluing the long edging first. When the glue is dry, I sand and then I can trim the fronts to length and attach the edging to the ends. After sanding the edging flush, I trim the overhangs at the A piece of scrap between the fence and the work piece allows me to Once one side is trimmed, I can trim the other side The drawer fronts get the Now I can drill for the poles by centering them on the drawer front. Always use a piece of when you're drilling 'cause it really helps prevent tear out. To locate the drawer fronts, we'll employ another trick With another piece of scrap I could stack the drawers with one sixteenth inch shims as If the drawer fronts are too big, now's the time to fix them. Using the holes we drilled, I drive a couple of pinhead screws to temporarily attach the fronts. By the way, I definitely It's something I read about years ago but always seemed to forget Thanks to several folks on With the drawers removed, I could then countersign for screws and firmly attach the Now I could remove those pinhead screws, drill through, and attach the hardware. The doors get the same hardware. Since there's only two, I just lay them out and Now let's work on the tops. I'm gonna use two layers MDF as the core. With a whole bunch of glue I drop the second piece in place. Notice that the top piece This is because I didn't wanna buy additional sheets of MDF to satisfy the greater than 24 inch width, so I'll just put some to take up the space and after the installation. I'll use the track saw to make a nice, clean cut on the front and sides. To protect the edges of the top, I'll use inch and a half wide alder. The corners have to be I could line it up and Now I'll attach the pieces one by one. By the way, this is never I always have to sneak up on the fit and make multiple trips to the miter saw. 21 gauge brad nails After flushing up the top surface, I'll add a little chamfer. This is also a good time For the finish, I'm using OSMO Polyx. It's a pretty expensive finish, but I had some leftover and using it in the shop gives me a great reference with regard to durability. I did two coats with a I actually forgot to do this earlier. In the back we need a couple of pocket hole screws to help secure the top. Now with the tops in place, I'll drive screws through the front cleat as well as those pocket For the open cubby, I'll install two pieces of scrap to make the bottom more usable. For the adjustable shelves, I'll use some leftover edging on the front. This is a minor detail, but see how I'm using a The cleat makes sure that all of the pressure is where we need it. If I didn't use the cleat, this type of clamp would put pressure on the top of that piece of trim which would create a gap where Worst part is you probably until you turn the thing Now I can install all the hardware. I've got a lot of organizing I'll install some power strips which we have plans for by the way. How about we do a little drawer organization while we're at it? Does this look familiar? I'm gonna try to tame this mess using Rockler's new lock The starter kit that they sell comes with quite a few components, but I'll need to use to fill out this wide drawer. The first row goes in easily. The second row will need to be cut. That's easy enough to do using the lines on the back as a guide. If you cut along a line, Now I can put my stuff back in, utilizing the dividers that they include in the kit. Perhaps the best part, you can just pull the components up and change things around if you need to. Now that tickles me in a special place. - It may seem like it's a lot of effort to put into shop cabinets but ultimately I spend This is not only the it's my refuge, it's where I take a break. I love my family but sometimes I need a little bit of time off, and I spend most of my time in here alone. This is my fun place so I I want them to be functional, and I want my time in this space to be efficient and fun. Hopefully you'll take the time to build your own shop cabinets using some of these techniques. We'll see you next time. (upbeat funk music)