That which offers no resistance, overcomes That which offers no resistance can enter Few in the world can comprehend the teaching non-action. Lao Tzu There's no proof that he truly ever lived, around the 5th and 6th century B.C, which Nevertheless, the Chinese philosopher Te Ching, which is the main work of Taoism. A well-known concept that has emerged from as "non-action", "effortless action", In a practical sense, we can describe wu wei the 'the zone' by athletes. When athletes are in the zone, they engage time and space almost effortlessly. There are no extremes, no worries, no ruminations; As an introduction to the beautiful tradition ..Philosophy of Flow. The Tao Te Ching is a mysterious piece of Not only there's no consensus when exactly remains disputed. Nevertheless, one thing is certain: the profundity to this day. Not to mention that the Tao Te Ching is the the Bible. The essence of Taoist philosophy is living So, what is the Tao? That's a question we can't really answer, Our understanding of the Tao only goes as What the Tao really is and what it looks, Moreover, the Tao that we speak of isn't Hence, the famous opening of the Tao Te Ching The tao that can be described is not the eternal The name that can be spoken is not the eternal End quote. So, what knowledge is available about the Well, the Taoist philosophers emphasize over force that is beyond our comprehension and And even though we can never grasp the true it, which is strikingly similar to the Stoic So, how do we live in harmony with the Way? Taoist literature doesn't really give one However, we can find many clues that point senses, being humble, and the cessation of the workings of the universe. This stillness of mind doesn't necessarily mean that we sit down somewhere with our eyes closed. The Taoists observe that stillness of mind completely in the present moment, our actions accompanied by a razor sharp focus. So much so, that it's almost ecstatic. In his biography, retired professional basketball "It was almost as if we were playing in During those spells I could almost sense how next shot would be taken." End quote. The Taoist work Zhuangzi contains a story work while in a state of flow. This grasped the attention of Lord When-Hui, cut up oxen. When he commented him on his skill, Cook Ting "What I care about is the Way, which goes When I first began cutting up oxen, all I After three years I no longer saw the whole And now, now I go at it by spirit and don't Perception and understanding have come to I go along with the natural makeup, strike the big openings, and following things as So I never touch the smallest ligament or End quote. An essential part of this story is the condition He stated that good cooks change their knives change their knives every month because they Cook Ting however, was using the same knife skill and subtlety. This story connects to another essential teaching By forcing and striving, we might get the more energy than necessary and possibly suffer On the other hand: someone in a state of flow to act and when not to, and finds a balance It's a matter of not too hot, not too cold. It's the golden path between anxiety and The idea behind non-action goes against the and harder to get results. We are encouraged to be ambitious, to take Meanwhile many people suffer from depression, Are we burning ourselves out? We look down on passivity, and often mistake But these are different things. When we look at nature, 'doing nothing' Results do not equal the amount of energy Results are the consequence of a series of The funny thing about this, is that many of need more human intervention than necessary Isn't it so that many problems solve themselves? Taoism compares life to a river. The river already has a course or several river, we can swim against the current, we go along with the stream. Most of our lives, we swim against the current Our mind believes that it can and should control is kind of egocentric because the vast majority are not in our control. I mean, let's face it: we don't control flow or the healing of wounds. We don't control other people, we don't We don't even control who we fall in love Everything outside our own faculties just Sometimes forced by intelligence, but mostly When we flow along with the current, we align This is the path of least resistance; it gives So, the Taoist way is rather navigating through something that will never work. Another aspect of the river that characterizes The characteristics of water are softness Here's a quote from the Tao Te Ching: The supreme good is like water, to compete with it. It gathers in unpopular places. Thus it is like the Tao. End quote. Water may be soft, but it overcomes hardness And water not only seeks the lower places; Yet, it nourishes everything that it passes. It's an incredible life force, that literally Water is the softest and most yielding substance. Yet nothing is better than water, for overcoming with it. End quote. If you've ever experienced a state of flow, comes back when the thinking mind takes back This is the focus on results, rather than This reminds me of the Stoic concept of 'amor outcome, whatever it may be, and instead of in the present. No matter if you're completely immersed when you're in a state of flow, you forget the future, the failings of the past. It's just you and the task at hand. You are completely in the present. And the only way to do this, is by letting Letting go means stop swimming against the It means letting go of the past, letting go and just live it, without hesitation. Thank you for watching.