In the Eternal City of Rome, where ancient it's easy to get lost in a sea of tourists, each experiences. This city, a glorious mix of history, the epitome of a tourist trap. But what if we don't walk away feeling as if you were both Rome may not have been built in one day, but we're ourselves to see the Eternal City in one day the mandatory tourist sites but also veer off itself only to those who look beyond the facade. cuisine that doesn't break the bank and cover serene spots amidst the chaos to pause and soak Well Martin, we've been traveling around for a right. Also, when we arrived in Rome, we started and oh my God, I'm a little bit shell-shocked. but that doesn't mean we're not going to be having early, which we would recommend you do the same so you can beat the heat. So we started off our first on our trip, the Trevi Fountain. We thought at 5:30 a.m. to come over here, but the truth is, check this out, guys. It's I mean, not as packed not to ourselves. It's so funny to be to see only to take a picture over here. Probably they and probably we're maybe on the budget, but we're return one day to the Eternal City. Yes, here we There we were, tossing coins into the Trevi coming back to Rome. You've got to love a city sound investment for future travel plans. EUR2 stuff out of the way, though, because next up, each performing an elaborate dance of duck faces the shot. It's too bad they don't know the spot, the back of the Coliseum, so there's less people, there's a restaurant called La Biga. It's right in could sit, get some great unobstructed views of of day, the light is gorgeous. Pictures check. out. But in the meantime, there's a few other Constantine. They made this arch to celebrate a Paris. This one also here also commemorates a big they get overshadowed by the big Coliseum, you to visit and get inside, you have to get your and watch out for the scammers. There's a couple to take a picture with you, and then they want to to save money, so the last thing we want to do in the back with the scooter. He's actually onto of these lime scooters around the whole city. If it's totally worth it to rent one of these don't just do it by minute because it gets very, You can do a 60-minute pass, 90-minute pass, and minutes you use, and that's a super great way you know what's even cheaper than a scooter? and I because yeah, we're trying to stick to you're going to eat or going to drink coffee least two blocks away from the famous buildings. you a lot, and probably the food or drinks we check there's nothing around us, so we're going here. It's fast, it's nice, it's our place. All Italian coffee shop. Dark wood like this is a and out in a matter of minutes. If a menu isn't and if there are chairs, it's probably a tourist If you order a cafe, a coffee over here, they're going to give you this, which I go. And I feel slightly at home here because coming in and out super fast. The faster, the fast food in the US. No, they know how to do to hit the road. Looks delicious. The thing about Italy is it doesn't need to be anything fancy. See to have some sort of fancy pastry? No, you can Cafe di Noto. EUR8 so far, well, 10 if we count the The reason why everybody comes over here and the to Rome is because this is the best-preserved La Cupula, how do you say that, Jules, Dome, beautiful building. We bought the tickets online so right now we spend EUR20 for all our day so far. Built in 126 AD, this ancient temple turned church and is the final resting place of legacies such as And what they don't tell you when you purchase snagging front-row seats to the greatest show not a crash course in human behavior, only way more too, making this video for you, but don't worry, Somebody needed to say it. Now that we've crossed do you say we head to a spot that has much less II, the first king of Italy as a unified can see right now it's under construction, but you watch. Some Romans, they call it the typewriter Wow, the view up here is totally worth all those crowds a bit, which I'm excited about. Just me, have a little picnic. Our goal is to find some or some sort of takeaway option, have ourselves a meet you guys over there. One thing I love about way from sight to sight, and you'll get distracted and also tons of fountains everywhere, you can drink out of them. You can bring your also seen people sticking their heads under the to do it like the Romans do. I'm going to show know about. Amongst all the alleyways of Rome is and cosmopolitan energy converge into what is Now, they are free to enter. There's tons of to make sure that you don't lose a ton of money will be fined for eating, drinking, and sitting people getting fined right now because a lot of with a drink in your hand, sipping it, and a so avoid that at all costs. Put away your drinks, without having to spend a dime or a euro, in of 135 steps, has a history that stretches back they were built to link the Bourbon Spanish symbolizing a peaceful connection between France few other unofficial rules no one told us about: no, no astronauts. Yeah, no diving boards, no spit while you're talking. Don't divide men and task right now, having a picnic. We are walking a shop selling meat and cheese with no English We found this sandwich place, and, they're going that it's Italiano, that's mozzarella, tomato, that it has also tomato eggplant, ricot, and go. EUR4 in a place that is totally like it should be. Across the street, we saw this a perfect addition to our picnic, and EUR9 for a us. EUR43 so far, right? EUR43 so far, well spent. In a city as crowded and as big as Rome, That's why Villa Borghese, it's like a sanctuary, city. It's a nice park, huge, that allows you to nature, and if you have enough wine, maybe you're Geese hanging out, couples this park is just such a vibe. What do you wait. Cheers. We're in freaking in Rome. Well, that sandwich was a million times delicious, and we're probably going to do you say we go back to exploring some go. Well, another free spot for us to see. very famous and unique. It has two fountains is from Egypt. So so cool. And you told some sort of movie reference? If you've seen you will know this piazza. That is so you, off-screen, I have been referencing the Lizzie As late afternoon approaches, we decide to take to Trastevere. And it certainly feels different all that you're looking for when you're coming to for: little alleyways, cobblestone, ivy growing twinkle lights. And at this time of day, it's is. I like this neighborhood a lot more than some so let's see what else we can find. And you right? But that's one expense we'd gladly Fatamorgana. Incredible gelato is served here. We correct, to a grand total of EUR49. Your, that is for when you're looking for gelato. Okay, number matter if you're going to order pistachio or not, it is not a good place. The pistachio color should natural color pistachio, and their vanilla should has come highly recommended, and what I loved is and they're all very, very small batches, so the plus I went way off of what I normally do. It's remember what the third ingredient was, but let by by far my favorite ice cream or gelato I've not like just lemon; it is lemon curd. It's don't know, tuna, it's what grows in the cactus, also ordered papaya. Was delicious, delicious. life in this neighborhood. You can see a lot of I love it. It's like the real life of Rome. As fresh out of school, came up to us shyly, this YouTube gig. You're in this bubble, always 75,000 subscribers, we often feel like just a drop and saw our subscriber count, their eyes lit up follow you, Tourist to local. oh oh my God, oh my We're going to become famous in Rome, take over and said hello. They're so, so sweet. What are and Martin.&quot; Very nice to meet you. To them, kind of a big deal. It was a real heartwarming we're celebrities or something. I don't know, it pays tribute to one of our personal heroes, that's love to come over here to this place in Rome to place. This isn't just any bar. It's where I got I said it. This one is for you, Tony. But what magically appears with your beverage. It's on ancient ruins and need a break. Here, it buys your dinner. But even though the food here plans at La Famiglia tonight. This restaurant off-camera, and returned for a total of here is life-changing, and we'll probably come back in the future and see a line. And two plates of spaghetti, and a couple of new yep. I used to do tap dance.&quot; &quot;Me too.&quot; That carbonara was life-changing, and that you guys wouldn't know this, but we actually that dinner, but we ended up meeting just the and we were just talking all night long. what are we at?&quot; &quot;Okay, the grand total for EUR43.78. I'd say that's pretty, pretty good to have a good time and not be too cheap. For I guess this concludes our journeys around but I'm very happy with all the experiences that I happened to found this channel after meeting us, journey and making this trip so magical. And if I would strongly recommend you to check that of going to Rome, I would highly encourage because I loved it. All right, we left this So long, travel well, make the world your