Hey it's Dallas time for another vlog. Thank you so much for tuning in and today's vlog is actually different, little special, I think. It's gonna be the first that I'm gonna be doing probably where I take a scene from the show, and I pull out the scalpel and we dig into the guts of the scene. Everything from the writing on the day of when we were filming it, the actors involved, the the choices that we made and music and sound and all of that so that you can get a detailed analysis of maybe why you liked the scene. If the scene was impactful to you, you're gonna get a good And we're gonna be doing and many scenes and so that you really loved from the show, and you really want to hear more about it, dig into the behind the scenes of it, please mention it in the comments below and I promise we'll get First scene, I'm going to This is one of the bigger scenes. It's the scene at the end of episode one, the infamous scene where or as she's known at the One of the reasons why and is probably the most important is that we don't actually begin writing until we know where it's going to end. So, when we first started we knew where the show was gonna end. We discussed that first. Where is the final season going to end up. Spoiler alert, we know 'cause we know where the Gospels ends. That's gonna probably be season eight, we think this show is going And then we worked our way backwards 'cause we really wanna earn that ending. And so we know where it's gonna end, we work our way backwards to make sure that it's as impactful as possible. And we do the same thing with season one. When we're writing season one, we're thinking of where it's going to end so we knew where season before we started episode one. And then episode one, we was gonna end before And so this scene, the scene was the first scene that before the rest of the and we really wanted to earn that. We knew that this was probably going to be the most important scene because episode one is takes time to introduce you to the people, it takes time to introduce This is like a regular show, not just a regular Bible project that typically a Bible project takes you from miracle to miracle Bible verse, the Bible verse takes you to we're doing something where we want to introduce and make sure that you get and what this world is, so that they're that much more impactful. So while some of you have said, oh, episode one maybe it's but I really love the ending. Well, the reason the ending is because of the time I believe this is a scene that has been very and I'm wanna dig right into it right now. So what I'm wanna do is and you can watch it with me, and I will stop it every time that I think you might find interesting. So we start off right away, obviously, I'm going to start with the moment and the reason I'm I'm wanna stop it right there. Where you actually see Jesus walking up, and most people don't notice that. But Jesus is in the background. And this was one of the key moments that we really wanted Jesus meets you where you are. And if you remember And she's at the edge of a and the dove essentially And most interesting thing about it is the dove actually leads her to a bar, one of her usual hangouts. And the fact that Jesus is there, and that's where He shows that we found really interesting. Might be controversial, but we found to be really interesting and a good way to introduce is in this place of ill repute, a place that you wouldn't normally expect. And so as you notice, in that moment, you can see Jesus's arm and His, the one side of His body as He approaches. So, He's now pouring the drink. He doesn't want to give it to her 'cause he knows that's a Mary- I said leave me... Dallas- Looks back and forth, Jesus - That's not for you. Dallas - There it is. One of the first words Jesus that's not for you. That's not accidental. One of the themes of the of the devotional book, devotional book, The you don't have it yet, get it. Takes you deeper into these It's on the app or in the store anyway, the fact one of the themes of and the devotional is Jesus And so the first time you that's not for you. Your previous life is no longer yours. Your previous life is now mine and those things that that are important to I'm for you. There's multiple meanings in that line. And you could emphasize You could say it that's not for you, or that's not for you, and that's not for you. There's so many meanings those four words. It's not accidental that to be the first out of Mary - Don't touch me. Dallas - And then right away. What's the thing that Mary does? First at the time she's It's the name that she gave herself and I'll talk about this more in a minute, but it's the name she gave herself to kind of escape her past. But what's the first when Jesus shows into the picture, shows up in the picture to get ahold of us are trying to connect with us in We're afraid to give up but those things that we felt so powerfully and for her, and one of the reasons why she's actually touching her head, for her the things that are the things that are actually We tend to cling to what She is feeling pain are so disturbed by Jesus's presence, and they are active and full bore and she could be having And so she knows that she's in pain. She doesn't know what's causing it. All she knows that she wants to get out of there as soon as possible. Bartender - Mary. Dallas - Because you see, she's feeling headache, Bartender - Mary, are you okay? I'll go ahead and pause it again. So one of the things that we and all of our miracle scenes, the focus is rarely on, We're always showing reactions, we're always showing what Because in many ways that and these scenes are not just they're about the impact of the miracles. And so the people who are and the people who are they represent the audience. The people who are the clue to the audience that that this is something unique, We wanted to show the impact not just those who He is directly Every time that there's a or redeemed or healed in some way, you're going to see a lot of reactions. And I've always believed maybe it's just a personal preference that I believe that reactions oftentimes enhance the Mary - Now I have to go. Leave me I leave. Dallas- Again, there is the last sudden silence. We tried not to overdo dialogue It's helpful when we have acting for us. I'm gonna pause it here. Obviously, when scenes are filmed, they're not necessarily continuous. And so the scene that the interior of the bar that in Dallas, and this scene, this moment that comes right in the freezing, freezing cold, literally, in the middle of nowhere This is on a set called just outside of Weatherford, Texas. Before we shot this scene, we We knew this was the most and probably in the whole show. And so Liz, and Jonathan to our separate corners and intellectually and to pray. And I remember when we were I walked up to Liz and she already had tears and I had tears streaming down my face. And so we just looked at each other, we didn't want to mess with it. We didn't want to overthink it. So I just kind of looked at her and I grabbed her hand and I And she just nodded. And I said, you're the as we've talked about in other videos, took us a long time to cast this role to find the right person and Jonathan, of course, has portraying Jesus for years. Some smaller projects So we've done this before. Remember all we did was And we knew this was gonna be important. Mary - Leave me alone. Dallas - Decided to shoot this in slow motion to really slow the scene down 'cause the episode was taking so long to develop Dallas- that we didn't want to rush this scene. Jesus- Mary of Magdala. Dallas- Mary, Mary of Magdala, and there it is. So when He says Mary of Magdala, that for many people they've wondered, is He calling her that for the first time? Is this the first time Or is He calling her back Who she was as a girl. The answer is, it's who she was as a girl. She was born Mary. We say that actually in episode she says it's Mary now and Jesus says it always was. She was Mary as little girl. She gave herself the name Lilith In episode one, we show that happened to her in the the assault by a Roman soldier and we believe that when that you know, at least in that that was the darkness And that's when she was open enough, and she was so traumatized that she was able to be Jesus is calling her back who she was born to be, who she was created to be. She is Mary of Magdala. Back then, you were identified So He's calling out who she actually is, when He says Mary of Magdala. And she hasn't heard And actually, I'll show I'm wanna go ahead and push play as we see the slow motion Mary- Who are you? Dallas- So she says, who are you? How do you know my name? Now she didn't actually say, how do you know my name on the set. That's something we added Additional Dialogue Recording. We added that line just to make sure that people would understand that Mary was her original name. Some people were getting confused. We wanted to make sure So we added later, she was and she said the line, and tried to match the intensity and the emotion of the scene. And so she said, how do you That wasn't in the script. Mary- How do you know my name. Jesus- That says the Lord who created you. Dallas- So when Jesus says, that that sound that you hear that bell, I remember our composers Dan and Matt. Dan Haseltine and Matt Nelson it's brilliant and I told him. I said you better deliver on this scene because this is when we The episode has been such a slog at times, not easy to watch and we And so it took us a long and the right music for this moment and to also decide to use Rubia Mom, who is the voice of the opening credits and the voice of several for her to kind of not only be the voice of some of the misery and but the voice of the joy in many ways, or her voice becomes like an emotional narrator. And so that bell, I remember I was like, that's it, because that is just, This scene is an announcement but to the audience of what this show is, and what this scene is, and who Jesus is. I remember in our test screenings, this scene was 20 seconds shorter, at least 20 to 30 seconds shorter and there wasn't quite as much impact. The lines were the same, but we slowed things down and added space in between the lines, which to really click in and have its impact and that made a massive difference. These are the things that of making sure that you and that is the key of the chosen. We're not just portraying we're trying to capture make it as emotionally Jesus- For He who found you, fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. Dallas- You are mine. Again, as he's approaching her. We shot that in multiple angles. And it's a decision as to when we decide to cut to the close-ups, when to decide when to So if you notice, when He's not in focus. He's not in focus until she hears the name she drops the cup. Don't be surprised if we see something like that He drops the cup to illustrate the shattering of what she holds dear, the fact that she will there's a lot of metaphors with She turns around and she sees Him. And that's when we cut because we want those close-ups to be as impactful as possible. I love faces and I love close-ups but it's important to because then they lose their impact. And you always want to give to cut to so that you that decision on cutting to Jesus's face and when to do that, when to go to the close-up Took a lot of time to figure out. And I remember our editor we spend days on this trying to figure out what's and what's gonna, you know, from Liz and from Jonathan and how do you make sure that you don't give and that the emotional too early in the scene that it doesn't give you any place to go. So the music's building slowly, and that's why the bells at key moments and Ruby's kind of slides into it and the cameras start to Jesus starts to get closer and closer. All of that was intentional to make sure that the scene built to a crescendo. So when Jesus puts his hands our portrayal is that she I remember some people express it, they wish that it that we would have seen and you know, that you see and we just didn't want to do that. We thought that that would be from the power of it. We also thought there was and intimate but Jesus just and having that be all Ironically enough back then, touching a woman in public was never done. There have been some who have said that would we believe Jesus didn't always necessarily follow those rules. He was always appropriate but broke the rules for the When you're not necessarily allowed to touch a woman in public think that, an exception can be made if is casting out all of her demons. So we worked on that a talking to Liz about how to do that. This is such a beautiful that it wasn't much a when that happened when that there was this just The lighting in the scene too was key because as you can see just in the background, our We love having flames, you'll see flames in almost every shot and He loves smoke especially and we believe that lights but in many ways they We want to use more source lighting, which is where the lighting that's actually inside the scene. And so as much as possible, we tried to light the and so sometimes at night a ton of flames to show up on camera. This scene was a little We had to brighten a little bit. I remember on some devices, some people if they watch it's very dark. Hopefully you're not watching Hopefully you're watching or on a DVD where it's much more like how it was originally intended. I get emotional even just watching and I've seen that scene 200 and when she's weeping, and she just collapses into his chest from a combination of it's just awesome, it's just awesome. That's just what happens when you have two brilliant performers. And when God is involved in the show, He provides for those moments. We didn't know, of course, my member my wife texted And she's like, so how did it go. It's impossible to know you're shooting from different angles. Liz had to do that multiple times. Not every take is perfect. She's one of the few actresses that I've ever worked that level of emotion and I've never seen anything like it really. That whole first episode she just got the heck and just brought it every time. I don't know how she did it. But not every take was perfect either. And she knows that. And sometimes we would have to do it again for various reasons. We just knew, especially That's how I wanted the episode just showed the Savior of the world with the most broken of souls. And Him just comforting and which, sorry, which isn't easy. But when it happens, it's beautiful. And Jesus comes to the least of these to those who need it most And we wanted to make that we were establishing who Jesus was where He shows up just where the we show the birth of Christ we show that He shows up to In a location in a setting and so the arrival of Jesus in this show takes place in a place you wouldn't expect to a person you wouldn't expect and we still try to film it in a way that maybe you didn't expect. I hope you enjoyed this. If you did, please subscribe or click that notification that makes sure that more come across their feeds, you can help us by spreading and through these videos. And again, please leave a comment below as to what you liked about it and what you want to see more of you don't want to see more Thanks so much and remember, it's not your job to feed the 5000, it's only to provide the loaves and fish.