Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. are in space right now dot com tells us that the answer is 6. Ever since the first person reached outer space 52 years ago, more than 500 humans have left Earth and they've gone as far as the moon, an impressive distance. I mean, space today are way cool, but to scale they only orbit about this far away from Earth. the Moon, where Apollo astronauts went, is way out here. there has been a continuous and of humans living in space. ever since November of 2001. all of us, every human who has ever existed was born right here on Earth. Of course, Earth is a giant in space, held together by its own gravity, so technically, we were all born in space. outer space. relation to it and within it? How suited is our biology for the More specifically, if you were born and raised beyond earth, what would you look like? First things first. is outer space? about one hundred thousand meters above your head. At that point the atmosphere is so thin that in order to achieve lift, an so quickly that that speed is the same as an orbital speed. is a speed that is so fast, even with no lift, even while falling you don't, because the earth literally curves away from you as fast as you fall towards it. This is what astronauts in really doing. They're falling. It's a common misconception weightless in space, But there's plenty of gravity. gravity operating on them that there is right now while you watch this video. if we build a tower all the way up to orbits, 370,000 meters high, and you walked out onto the top of that You would just be walking around like I'm walking right now. You wouldn't feel that much different, but the International Space Station at 17,000 miles per hour. because they are falling. So to say that orbit, because they are experiencing zero gravity is very misleading. is Zero-G, where G is accelleration felt as weight. so good, because gravity's limiting influence insures that we develop correctly and healthfully. After all, it is what we were born to thrive in. So asking what a human would look like, if conceived gestated, delivered and raised in orbit would look like, requires a discussion of weightlessness. Realistically, people building colonies or traveling through space for long who expected new humans to be born, would conditions here on earth. But until artificial gravity is it's important to understand the effect our biology and other things. in a zero-g environment hot air doesn't rise. ball of glowing gas that's drawn upward. Instead, it's just a round ball of hot gas. We are not sure we can make babies in space. The logistics of merely A recent invention, called the '2suit', The 2suit provides effortless intimacy outer space or on planets with low gravity. But will it be enough to ensure that The enzyme responsible for stopping the tale doesn't work very well when they're at zero-g. In space, sperms swim faster. inside mothers in space involves the development of the vestibular system. Canals in the to determine movement, up versus down and balance. In a zero-g environment the fluid in the It's confused. visual illusions and disorientation. spaced adaptation syndrome and it of astronauts. vomit, carsick, seasick, zero-g sick, because of survival. motion sickness, a confusion about acceleration, is similar to the effects caused by the in which case vomiting can save your life. Pregnant rats taken to space give birth to babies back on earth that Unlike rat babies that gestated here on earth, the ones that gestated in space have into water. They do tend to be better at processing weightlessness, which is a good sign for humans gestated, born and raised in space, but it's some of the only good news. Vestibular fluid isn't the environment. earth, gravity pulls those fluids down, but in orbit, the fluid is free to evenly distribute, giving astronauts their characteristic Cosmetically it's kind of a bummer. can compromise vision. Of 27 flights nine had fluid expansion around the optic nerve, 6 had eyeballs flattened in the back by fluid pressure and four had bulging optic nerves. More fluid pressure in your head causes that your body must have too much fluid. respond by producing less blood. Astronauts can lose volume while in space, leading to weaker atrophied hearts. radiation from the Sun, and the rest of the universe, is incredibly dangerous and we're still against it. Mice exposed to levels of radiation showed signs of different brain blood found in patients with Alzheimer's. feelings of isolation in space, from the rest of humanity can affect you physically. Scientists compromised immune systems with fewer T-cells. fully grown astronauts in orbit, no longer pressed down by earth typical g-force experience spinal expansion, sometimes growing by as before they come back to Earth. can go to space and come back as a 6-foot 2-inch tall person. bones in space atrophy at a rate of per month. lost can be as high as 40 to 60 percent. And when weightless, you don't need as move around. This causes the muscles of Those that you use to fight gravity can for total muscle mass loss of 20 percent. It's all kind of scary and sad. But don't bother crying over it, tears don't work the same way in space. Astronaut Chris Hadfield makes excellent differently in orbit. For instance, tears just pool In space you can cry, but as he says, the tears don't fall. adults in space. developing children in space even more so. Parallels have been drawn between the develop in orbit and diseases that cause weak and soft bones here on earth. according to different forces than the like Rickets. It's tenable to say that exercise and care, like adult astronauts already take, children developing in space could look like this. Not because of Rickets or a lack of vitamin D, but because the usual forces and active development just wouldn't be there. imagine a body shaped like this but with thinner legs, thin, weak muscles, a puffier face, poor eyesight and a higher than in life. Doesn't sound very good, does it? is speculation. and few are planned for the future. develop in the first place or if conception can even occur in space. When I think about how little we know and how our bodies might grow and universe beyond earth, I like to think about plankton. and they exist in staggering numbers. Many varieties are too small to even see individually, but collectively they can be seen from space. It's estimated that there are more than there are stars in our galaxy. Earth than there are galaxies in the observable universe. wonder around at the whim of ocean currents. They're wanderers. In fact, they get their wanderer, a name that they share with objects seen wondering in the sky. Plankton on a planet. on a wanderer. like ocean plankton, we humans are eventually also becoming more numerous than the stars in our galaxy. But before we start feeling too excited, too proud, keep in mind that we know very little about how our bodies grow and develop outside of this wanderer, this planet. And even though we know a lot of older words that sound like body, fundamentally we don't even know why we bodies in the first place. And as always, thanks for watching.