Is there a gap in your employment history? Are you unsure how to job search during the employer? In this video, I will talk about employment gaps and how to justify them in your job interviews. Because without an explanation some employers I am Marat from EMMOTION, myemmotion.com, me up on LinkedIn. Please subscribe to my channel below and hit the latest career and personal growth content. Also thumb up the video if you feel it was So, is this gap in your employment history Career break on a resume can indeed be a red It can make you some lose opportunities. However the reality is that this gap is as There are different scenarios related to employment If your case is that you haven't taken a career a smooth return to the workforce. And stick with me until the end, to boost employment gap. First situation: When you have had gaps or employed. - What to put on your resume: If the gap was in the past, and you've been to call it out on your resume. It doesn't mean you should be hiding it, asked about it during the interview. - What to say during the interview: If you've been in your current role for a be focused on your most recent position, asking No need to explain every single gap or why did in between. This will turn your interview into constantly If you are specifically asked about a gap, in details, always focusing how you wanted were sorted. Continue to the situation 2, where I give You are currently in the employment gap. What to put on your resume: If you are currently in your employment gap using years instead of months. For example you worked at the X store, from What did you do while you weren't employed? Did you have a baby? Did you have to take care of a relative? Health issues? Did you freelance or consult? Was it a sabbatical leave? How about volunteering? All those would count as work or as a valid Something you can mention on your resume. Steps to formulate your interview answer if What have you done during a gap? If you have been looking for a job for a long for a long term project and not just a paycheck. Mention everything you have done during the focus on the efforts you have made while you discuss any classes you have taken or any Pursuing higher education, volunteering and All attempts to improve your skills will be language class, photography or cooking skills. 2. Don't overshare you feel it's necessary. It should be easy for you to read what to by the interviewer's reaction. The hiring manager doesn't have to hear or a sleeping schedule of your little baby, of wanting to hear more about it. If you faced challenges and were forced to issues, be careful with too many details also. If you break down in tears during your interview, what you've been through, it may seem as It could also affect on your overall confidence Any of us who have ever lost a family member would show empathy and understanding. 3. Be confident and your employment gap explanation. If you show insecurity in your decision, the Don't feel like you have to justify your decision. Just let the hiring manager know that you've off. Own your decision and explain it clearly and Show enthusiasm and being ready for returning Highlight why this job would be exciting for 4. Move on gap. It's right there on your resume, but don't more than a minute or two. Your employment gap is probably a lot shorter There's no need to let this brief moment of bringing to a company. Go ahead and move onto your previous experience A good way of changing the subject could be Like "What do you like the most about this Gaps in employment happen, all hiring managers If you made it to the interview, they obviously So when it comes to explaining gaps in employment Don't get discouraged if a few companies Those are not companies you would want to They probably have horrible internal policies, you do, etc. If you found this video useful then please you think it might be beneficial to. Thank you and see you in my next video coming