(singing) covering the intersection of extreme Christian fascism, and the far right. In his new book, us snapshots of a country rapidly devolving into a the despair, the dislocation, the alienation, magical thinking that are the hallmarks of all coalesced around the Trump-led Republican Party. qualities of many who lead and embrace this Lauren Boebert make the term &quot;American but Sharlet implores us to take these Christian to what is left of our anemic democracy. Sharlet. So, Jeff, I'm going to have to skip your buy the book and read it on Harry Belafonte. Just Belafonte being this amazing figure. The book is your insights into Trump supporters extremely covering the Christian right, those I called and I think you do use the word &quot;fascist&quot; But I just want to begin with because you and his second run that I found particularly Vincent Peale's the Prosperity Gospel. and Ivana Trump. For those who don't know, Presbyterian, I'm Presbyterian preacher, who be blessed in material ways, extremely popular, But let's begin with the evolution, because of course, very frightening. But let's talk I think you in one point even may even call the second time around and where we're moving. an early 2016 in Youngstown, Ohio, which is, a steel town just decimated and there was a thing I noticed and would realize was a staple they all agreed to stay in a little metal cage prop in Trump's passion play was twiddling most right-wing preachers I'd ever heard, just And I've heard a lot of right-wing preachers. it was a sort of a combination of that kind or I think it was at this ... No, it was a introduced him would say, &quot;I don't see Black, I And I would listen to the people around me Trump Force One to come in. Remember, this presence and we talk about all the gold with And I realized that what was happening here When Trump says, &quot;We're going to win so much saying that, &quot;I'm just like you.&quot; He was saying at my blessings. Look at my airplane, my riches, than you. But by falling behind me, falling into And you raised Norman Vincent Peale, we make a lot of Trump's irreligiosity, but of piety. He's certainly impious. But he grew up as a charismatic figure and Norman Vincent described Norman Vincent Peale as part of his when he learned toughness, Roy Cohn, the legendary And Norman Vincent Peale, you could argue from sale. Norman Vincent Peale boiled the gospel that forth. And that's what was happening in 2016, me and you'll get a piece of the riches. You're too, will be heavy with this precious cargo.&quot; of a mega preacher completely who is idolized, prosperity. But the second time Trump runs, which changed in a much darker way. How did it change? &quot;You're going to win so much you get tired of was the aborted slogan tag, &quot;Keep American he stuck with that. But it was darker in the And I think what's fascinating with that kind of at, he's a little bit like a drug dealer who book of a particular interview with Laura Ingraham summer of 2020 and talking Laura Ingraham is doing always to kind of take his words, broadcast them, And he was resisting it, sitting on the edge of talking about dark forces, men in black uniforms using the present tense. And you could see &quot;By dark forces, you must mean Obama's people.&quot; know who they are. I can't tell you the name.&quot; theories he's trafficked in. I think he's kind of conspiracy thought was so definitive always a lot of blood and gore in the rhetoric failings of the press and not really addressing But now, he would go on at length about ombres as he put it, creeping in through windows. of rape fantasies and things that he knew struck me as a kind of modernized Americanized know that you've read deeply in this literature. an idea that there's an elect or a small group the surface isn't real. And in fact the actual God that. And of course, Gnosticism even has its own gets in the way of the truth. I don't think Trump kind of Gnosticism, this secret knowledge that a kind of mystic connection. And of course, this Gnosticism is the heretical or was the early gospels that could get very fantastic, but it had this secret knowledge that others didn't this as a kind of form of modern Gnosticism. is that he would say these outrageous things, who are kind of caged off and he would the press or they should be ... But then that in the second time around. It changes. joking method and he still does it. And I think colleagues in the press are like Charlie Brown holding and they just keep going up in the air there was a rally in Hershey, Pennsylvania, streetlights are actually shaped like Hershey's but none of that was reported. The takeaway was 12 more years. Oh, I'm joking. Or maybe I'm not.&quot; megachurch preacher, I think for a lot of these preachers as pious and proper as opposed to point of the mini cults of personality that ecosystem in which outrageousness, lies, winks, of the performance and it becomes in a way sort of rally and then kind of contradicts himself at the You'd meet people who'd gone to 50, 60, 100 around the country. There's all kinds of little what happens at the rally that travel around. would not hear it as evidence of falsehood, &quot;There's something deep here. This is a signal. And I think now this is really hard for anyone say they're experiencing that as a kind of being asked to participate in meaning-making is submissive to the great man, the great They experience themselves as more engaged than I don't want anyone to hear that as like saying, value?&quot; No, no. The meaning that he's making Well, Hannah Arendt makes this point that it's It's about catering to the emotional needs of what you said even the day before, as long as going to get into fascism, which of course I and I think people have to begin to use it. again was extremely thoughtful. You talk about So, one of the things again that I feel like you they'll say something [inaudible 00:14:11], always get very confused by that as a person who Theater is powerful. Theater, there's no such Trump did theater, he did performance, and yet so sometimes there'd be comedy skits. He'd do And the first campaign, three that would the snake and the bullet. And the call was a company that he was just going to call when to handle sending jobs overseas.&quot; He'll just call and the crowded cheering because he's telling The snake, he takes actually a song originally a little poem and he would take it out and although he didn't need it, he had it memorized. picks up a snake who cries for help. She picks snake scolds her and says, &quot;You knew what I was.&quot; by immigrants coming to the United States. We would always be accompanied with a kind of litany usually white individuals who had been killed by people in the crowd knew those names. Although of martyrs really came post January 6th. astonishing piece of work. He's talking about the chopping off the heads and he's imitating fire. But he's got a solution, General Black Jack Now, the history here is it's not history. and he acts it out, he plays it out is that he had 50 bullets and he dips them in blood and Trump pig blood. They're going to shoot the Muslims shoots 49 of the prisoners kills them. Trump ecstatic. And it's not righteous violence. And you say, &quot;Caters to the emotional needs.&quot; I works across a lot of emotions that politicians he gives it to the last prisoner and he tell them that that's what I'll do.&quot; the crowd would like it so much. He'd say, &quot;Yes,&quot; and he would perform it again. And the &quot;Well, let's see, did he say anything about policy so on,&quot; because they're dismissing all theater. That is the substance of Trumpism. a bit. In fact, you go kind of in who was killed on January 6th. Talk a little writes about the importance of martyrs to a new And you were writing about how they reinvented but then her age keeps dropping I think until martyrs, it's a fictional narrative. They and that these movements need that these martyrs campaigns of violence. Talk about that and then Yeah, I think that's well put. I think we can see the first campaign as the prosperity what we're in now, and I would argue martyrs. And that's a big step as you said, for I think Trump had been trying to cultivate of undocumented people were just well known Ashli Babbitt, this 30 something year old military veteran wearing a Trump flag like a a charge through a broken window. And they would the evidence photo of her knife on my cover of and her own writing and what she understood And we see the hands of a police officer, they're the hands of a Black man. And as one of the oldest stories in American history.&quot; an innocent white woman. That's the story of in the White House, 1915, white woman fleeing the heroes who in the movie literally are And so, it starts happening that day but on January 6th I sort of had to throw out a going to watch this martyr to myth in form and in a white silhouette of Ashli, a drop of red on Actually, she was shot in the shoulder. Proud Ashli Babbitt? Trump finally starts using, even but the idea was everyone who is his enemy shot And I like what you say very much I think of one man who was arrested. I think comic story when the FBI show up at his house, the capitol on January. It says, &quot;January 6th, I what they were arresting him for was he had been he imagined as a little girl. And they always sort she was, they'd say she was smaller than she was. was a military veteran. So, she's therefore the too. They were stabbed in the back. We would a cop mowed her down. I don't think she's the end which you can understand her and him understanding himself up there, which he now has, which Well, he hasn't done it. We've done it for him. knew we would do it. Yeah. should have been charged for all sorts of crimes under the emolument clause. But as you point out, own sense of martyrdom and the sense of martyrdom in New York, it's just a big campaign event. indictments? I can't remember. It's now become it's a little bit like Hotel California. You can the text list. You can cancel as much as you But the eve of the first or second indictment, &quot;Dear friend, this may be the last time I'm &quot;It's a noble thing I do,&quot; and I couldn't remember from their high school reading a going off to [inaudible 00:23:58]. It's right? &quot;I'm the only thing standing between they're coming after you.&quot; I mean, yeah, he I want to talk about fascism. I think both you describe this movement. Trump has embraced the Christian nationalists or the Christian like past iterations of fascism. Fascism always national symbols and venerated national mythology. in the book, I'm just going to read a little the race purity that was very much part of &quot;The purification project of the old fascism has a nation in which the rightest ascendancy can voters. This time, white supremacy welcomes to reassure its more timid adherents that border crime' and 'replacement theory' somehow do not add in the new authoritarian imagination, only So, let's begin to talk about what this new within Christian fascism, the Christian right, does have differences with the traditional right very well. And your book, The Family is a Well, first, I want to give you credit for that time I was writing The Family, there's actually word is fascism. I'm writing about this. The nationalist group based in Washington but National Prayer Breakfast. On the surface, they're And in the post World War II years, they war criminals, senior war criminals. So, that's what they would say to those guys is essentially, and give it over to the father. And I argue then, I was wrong to argue against the word &quot;fascism&quot;. there's more than one kind of baton in the sun. a kind of break on fascism because in American you want to call it, they weren't ever going to switch out Jesus. And I think you rightly there and every significant church around the Trump's move was to consolidate it nationally. politics that still lingered around it. The idea but now we have the open celebration of violence. and as you say, there's that moment where he &quot;They're the enemy of the people. They're scum.&quot; bulk birds in the air and they're screaming and violence they're going to commit. one of the very first people I met there, a lot of turquoise jewelry and nice people and &quot;I want to get a hold of a protester and And his wife looks at him as if I this is too much. She says, &quot;Oh, Gene.&quot; And she me and uses language I don't think she used often was being naughty and smiling and she was speaking look like she'd been rode hard and put up wet.&quot; a great German historian of the right, Annika about militant eroticism. This idea of violence a kind of authenticity and truth. You know you Trump says, &quot;Wait.&quot; One of the things he says, hit them. It'll feel good.&quot; I think this changes know you've thought a lot about this, that fascism Germany and that was a regime. This is still near full control, but it's mutating and it's Another historian I'd refer people to is White Evangelical Racism. She's a church of whiteness and the promise of the whiteness into thinking, &quot;I can be part of this power.&quot; whether it's a Trump rally or a militia meeting, just assumed that it was all white and it never a militia church in Omaha, Nebraska in the book, I live in Vermont, about a third people They look forward to civil war. They are fairly openly white supremacists. They preach metaphor for Blackness itself. And yet, they've And if we recognize it as such, it shouldn't America in 2023 is not quite the same racial I think you made the point that it's defined more as white victimization. So, as long as you embrace Yeah. And in fact, actually in the martyr role folks, he often talks about a young, very sense, bringing this guy in under the umbrella of a story. He likes to tell a story of this is &quot;Imagine you're a traveling salesman,&quot; he says. such a thing who goes around knocking on doors traveling salesman in your way and your pretty comes up and he opens a window and he crawls in.&quot; way you do to a horror movie, but it's charged the white woman, which is a fantasy being twisted yet he's making that available to a broader sense. that Trump is ever going to win any significant votes. He's not going to win the majority. He leaning on this idea that diversity will save us. hearing that the young will save us. I've been There's this sort of passivity. We're waiting opposed to embracing a radical politics that we have to do ourselves. Every one of us. especially in the south, all through slavery, raped were Black. Mary Chesnut in her diary, there were some two dozen mulatto children was raping the Black women. I mean, that gets Let's talk about civil war. I've covered civil it's even more frightening. It's less a civil war armed communist militias battling brown shirts of heavily armed fascist, proto-fascists, Trump and those who don't have any violent counterpart. as a younger person, stumbled through one in And I am aware of the risk of hyperbole Scenes from a Slow Civil War. A slow civil In 2021, what I started noticing was academic They understand the history moves slowly. I'm this and I think it's the right way. Starting civil war here.&quot; And that language had always but now, it was moving as a rhetorical ploy more how could we understand slow civil war as a I think the laws, for instance, I write about this which became the only blue state in which abortion And you would hear these stories in the press something else went horrible happened because she journalists, we know for every story like that And I said, there's a way in which more harm bombers. It's very easy to see an abortion that than people realize as a kind of at here it is. And I thought of the ways that of men who line up outside school libraries and And there's been a few shots fired, not many. And really happening.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Well, this is dry grass and so far, the flames haven't caught can you line up a group of men with guns.&quot; this counterforce like in Weimar, Germany. in Sacramento had a rally for Ashli Babbitt. they kind of all know each other and it's a kind wanted to have one of those blows land on me. hands on deck person. I think anyone who says, because we haven't done it. We haven't done it that.&quot; That said, I do hear on the left this idea think they're the only ones with guns. I'm a gun hands in the United States, and all you need to do very quickly the disparity of those guns. a militia marching. And I spent time with They're not going to march. That's not the the drumbeat of mass shootings. I would argue which has many causes, but one of the big ones is tell your child anymore, &quot;You're being paranoid.&quot; if you're in Texas, if you're here in New And I think that is what we look at as a slow fool ourselves if we say just like with the never get worse.&quot; It could. It doesn't have to. to believe something's inevitable. Nothing is. violence, but always militias brown. I was a component of Stalinism. And I'm wondering 1920s in Soviet Russia because we forget that just as certainly from 1933 to 1938. There institutions against the rise of fascism. It took I'm asking you, but my fear if Trump is reelected former Trump presidency, but it will come back And so, I am curious as to whether rather than gasp perhaps of a very ineffectual liberal stave off a group that rules through open fear, channels and through these rogue militias where where you can sort of separate yourself the way Yeah. Oh, yeah, certainly, stand back, stand by about a militia in Marinette. The leader claimed clearly massive arms, massive equipment. And the anything. They do lots of training exercises. And moment? So maybe there's no civil war because I met folks on the right who felt like that the guns out because the new world order has waves or whatever it is.&quot; All those little fringe important. Another way that a lot of people, they When I was driving around Wisconsin talking to everybody, every man, especially that I spoke reproductive biology. They really didn't know them as kooks instead of saying, &quot;Wait a minute. theories put together make this movement,&quot; the slow civil war is one for the right. to defend liberalism to point out that it's wondering what's going to happen when we already providers working in some of these red states. arrested and tried for murder and they're from not putting our citizen on trial.&quot; What's going Ron DeSantis with his white alligator guard, his Carolina Republicans, who have just created their Again, it's a little bit like you keep lining up called. One of the things I don't write about ground, folks, but I think it's important having a lot of people imagine the military is maybe they don't, but they imagine it as It's not at all, of course. And I think there's always been people like General Mike of crazy conspiracy theories, but the military get the Jeeps there on time. All right. And you but you get the Jeeps there on I think that fragmentation, which has been especially through Christian right organizations was a number of state national guard commanders orders, the vaccination orders, so this put them the Biden administration. Biden could have, I'm &quot;All right. No, no, no, you're complying. I'm Seven states let it ride, which again, I I think was the right thing to do in that case. matter of time until someone picks a fight. that the Christian right, the Christian fascists the military, heavy recruitment, and what a lot large organization, but among combat units. right are quite high. I don't remember the there's been a huge infusion, prayer services huge infusion, a huge effort on the part of the of the military, but law enforcement as well. and nobody noticed that. Your kind That's right. traditional mainline guy, forget it. Do not apply. Roberts or wherever. So, I just want to close. I the peak skill, and I don't have time to go powerful scene with Paul Robeson and he's almost killed. I mean, it's quite dangerous. York State Police helicopter. 1949. of wistful, it struck me, that in a way, you said question you raised is where are these people now you talk about Pete Seeger and Woody Guthrie musicians. And it's not in the book, but let's Party was an important bulwark against the rise of even completely erased and written out of history. Oh, yeah. No, I think this is one of moment of global fascism. It's not just the but there's not a countervailing force. But my who wrote all the lyrics to those people. Yeah. And it's the same. We skipped over Harry this very dark journey with Harry Belafonte, died angry at 96, and a good anger, he was in the embrace this language of hysterical crisis, that Now, the struggle's going to happen. What happens at a very young age a few days before Trump won fascism is here, but at least I'm alive to see I bookend it with those old heroes, those mostly the radical edges smooth down to remind us hope. The struggle is long. Trump could going. We keep going. We keep going. of keeping going, whether you're we don't fight fascists because we're going to The good fight. The good fight. The last chapter Yes, that's right. not because you're going to win, Yeah. Beautiful. Thank you. That Undertow. I want to thank the Real News Network Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.