If you've ever been betrayed before, goes very deep to the level of trust that you had The more dependent you were, the deeper and it can be hard to recover I'm Doctor Tracey Marks, a psychiatrist, Today I'm answering a viewer what kind of therapy cures I've tried CBT and it didn't help. Which doctor would be best Thank you DK for your question. What exactly is betrayal? Rumination? While it's not an official diagnosis, it's by Doctor who's done extensive research Rumination is the act of replaying and over in your mind, and the thoughts It's like thinking and what you're thinking about causes With betrayal, rumination. You have thoughts, spirals something has harmed And I include something It could be an institution that you're The emotions associated with are typically shame, anger, or sadness. Doctor Frates research highlights safety and trust, leaving us vulnerable Davo stands for deny attack It's a manipulation tactic often used and to deflect responsibility Here's how it breaks down. D stands for deny. The abuser denies They may say you're exaggerating and they're not just superficially They really believe that Or if it did, it wasn't that bad. So they may say things like, It wasn't that bad, I didn't mean it like that. A stands for attack. The abuser attacks They may even blame you for provoking like, you know, you get under my skin You just don't know when to quit. Then rvo stands for reverse victim Here, the abuser assumes the victim They twist things to look like How does Davo cause betrayal? Rumination. Being betrayed Then the Davo tactics making it even harder Davo can erode your sense of self-esteem your rumination as you try and make sense Also, to self-blame and self-criticism. And if you buy in to the victim, not to if you have any sense of compassion you want to believe what they're saying, about what actually happened, and instincts. Then you spend time ruminating about this So getting back to DCS question with this acceptance and commitment and different approach to breaking free a licensed therapist trained in Akt DK said CBT didn't work. Cognitive behavior therapy or CBT It focuses on identifying and challenging that contribute to rumination. So you're trying to change the way you think about the betrayal On the other hand, from a totally different angle with Act. You're not suppressing Instead, you learn to accept them without letting them control you. It's about recognizing not facts, and that we don't have Rather than dismiss the thoughts. You use your connection to your values through the emotions or take action So that's a high level Here are four specific techniques Rumination. Number one is notice and name when those Acknowledge them. Say to yourself, I am feeling. Fill in the blank, or I'm having the thought that I am worthless This is just an example. It seems pretty basic, but simply noticing distance between you and the emotion Thinking about feeling worthless is less Number two is using diffusion. This involves learning to see thoughts They're not commands Try techniques floating in the wind The silly voice approach trivializes the Number three is acceptance. Instead of fighting or suppressing allow yourself to feel them. Breathe into them. Notice the sensations in your body to experience them without judgment. This is a mindfulness practice By observing the sensations in your body using all of your senses Number four Identifying what truly matters to you and allows you to move forward. Take some time What's more important to you? Family. Honesty. Compassion. Write down these values and with them, despite the betrayal Remember that healing takes time so you have to be patient with yourself. Seek support from loved ones Act techniques. You have the strength to move through this on the other side. Watch these videos Thanks for watching