- We don't know what life is- which is a crazy place to be right now. We still do not know what life is, even life on Earth. There's a gap in the or current physics as we think about it, as this kind of timeless universe. The Universe kind of unfolds a bit like a clockwork music box, where you play the music and And you could go backwards And that doesn't really explain adequately how life got started or the novelty and open-endedness of biology, and in contrast, biology, which is doing all sorts of crazy things, new species are being where human beings are new culture, or add-ons, new memes; that we have this massive disconnect between the physics of the Universe, and what we understand is and what's happening in evolution. And the fact that evolution and is defined by the same means that maybe there is a space for understanding how we bridge the gap between physics and biology. My name is Lee Cronin. I am the Regis Professor of Chemistry at the University of Glasgow, and I'm doing research, explore all things in the origin of life, and the creation of life. Well, so there's kind There's the physics universe, where we understand the standard model, and gravity and time from the Big Bang, to the But then we've got the that occurred on Earth, starting And since the 4 billion years, going right up to the I noticed an interesting problem that the physics of the Universe does not really predict and doesn't really explain Although we have the Theory of Evolution that was put forward by Darwin, and actually, Darwin did a fantastic job at understanding slow there was no kind of from physics to biology in one leap. What 'Assembly Theory' does, it actually allows us to explain how inanimate matter becomes evolutionary, and literally how we by the process selection. What does life actually do? And put very succinctly, life creates complicated things at scale. And I can give you a like just take an outlandish If you went to Mars and you might be kind of curious, But if you find two iPhones, find three, find 10, find you can start to be increasingly sure that those iPhones were produced by a technological process And so that's really in a nutshell what assembling encapsulates- this ability to generate over a lot of different things. As a chemist, I think about And a molecule is a series of atoms connected by things called bonds. So, when I was developing and applying it to molecules, I imagined that I could take a molecule, just cut off different atoms, and keep cutting and cutting and cutting, 'til there's nothing left but atoms. So, say if I've got a molecule nitrogen and oxygen, I would and at the bottom of my tree, I would be left with a base, nitrogen atoms, and oxygen atoms. And then to recover the molecule, I'd put 'em together in the And so the Assembly Index is just, take a molecule and I'd chop it up: What is the minimum number to turn that molecule back The Assembly Index is literally a measure of the minimum amount of information required to make that molecule. One of the motivations for developing Assembly was to help NASA try and elsewhere in the solar system. What NASA wanted to do was and the Assembly Index as a I wanted to challenge the which is very Earth-centrist. They were looking for molecules we would find on Earth in biology, and I think that's fundamentally wrong. The molecules on Earth aren't necessarily but complexity is. And so when I started to this is when they started &quot;Okay, we're gonna give you from different places in the Universe, so we could use this to but also parts of outer space.&quot; Because, right now, the only place where we know there is life So, what we wanna do is using this technique, and see if we can then find life on Mars and in the outer solar system. Can I explain how matter became life? Yeah, rocks to dinosaurs is one, yep. Assembly Theory challenges the notion that life is vastly impossible, because Assembly Theory step-by-step, by grinding and produce complexity, And this is something that really, we're being able to And so, the environment on planet Earth at the origin of life, created the chemistry and the environment; the cooking started. And really, there's only one thing that is the key to the origin of life, and life in the Universe, and that is one word: existence. For an object to exist, it has to survive for a longer This process of copying an existence to defy the law of being erased is how life starts to emerge. It is the battle to emerge from the maelstrom of and it's so simple. It's like the simplest observation ever: copying and existence. That's all life is. Life is extremely fragile chemistry that has found a way to copy And we are, as in living things, the oldest artifacts on Earth, even older than some of the rocks, because we are able to copy which is so interesting. And so it's just existence and copying, those two things gives you biology.