Silent Sitting Easter Sunday 2019 [Mooji] Om. Namaste. to this silent sitting, which I dedicate to the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, on this Easter day. The sitting will be It is never strict, in this way. For large parts of the sitting, but occasionally, as prompted from inside, I may bring some guidance, some words to you. Please sit in a way that you are comfortable. And of course, or naturally, with those sitting next to you, it is nothing at all, it is fine. Just remain comfortable, in such a way that, for the next half an hour, or so. At the end of the sitting, I will ring the bell just to indicate that You will notice that by such things as end of sessions, I ask you to remain seated, as I leave the room. And those of you, who wish to sit behind and to continue marinating in that silence, you are very welcome to do that. Others, you move about, as quietly as you can. Thank you. In the holy name whose spirit and presence in the hearts of all beings, we dedicate this sitting. Amen. [sound of the bell] Do whatever feels comfortable for you. There are times, when you may want or to keep your eyes closed. This is perfectly natural. Be comfortable. The real silence is not something that we do. It is not simply keeping quiet by not speaking. Real silence is not in control of anyone. It is the nature of being. It is not a doing. It is synonymous with our inmost Being. It is to be recognised, rather than the sense In order to recognise it, don't follow the thought energy, Stay only in the witnessing of that, witnessing without identity. Do not label yourself as a witnesser. Let there be only witnessing, spontaneous and automatic, where and when necessary. Otherwise, remain empty. We cannot stop thoughts from coming, but you can stop your attention Remain in the natural neutrality of emptiness. Be aware that the mind's habit is to create, But you, the one who observes the mind, Mind is like the wind, it moves about. But your Self is like space. It is infinite. It does not move about. What tends to move about with the mind one of your intimate tools and powers. But there is something beyond attention, more present than attention, in which even the movement of attention Be here. Unlike the mind energy, the pure consciousness Self does not move about. It is the limitless Self. It is pure silence. But it is not being silent! It is silence itself. Silence has no doer behind it. If some tension appears inside the body, it means nothing at all; ignore that. Here, in the very heart of being, there is nothing to do, or to change, or to fix, or to create, or to become. There is nothing to leave. It is entirely beyond all states of the mind. It is your natural state. Yet it is not rigid. It is not controlling. It is without fear. Recognise this. Whatever appears in the mind has no reality. Like clouds passing, Neither time, nor change exist without you, the one who observes them. If there is no you, there is no time. You are the witness of time and change, yourself being the unchanging one. Do not doubt this. Look and confirm in your silence. This body is not the proof that you exist. There was never a time when you were not. I am not speaking about your person. Your person also does not truly exist. What exists eternally is consciousness, the very heart of God. Be in great joy who has placed the intelligence, that you may recognise Him, who alone is real and unchanging. It is the unchanging within ourselves This body is a time body. It has a birth time, a life time and an end time. But the spirit in you is immortal. It is synonymous with pure consciousness. It exists beyond history. There is no need to imagine this. Be in the now, without the 'then'. Though the egoic mind regards this in truth, it is your everlasting freedom. Unbound. Unconquerable. Though it appears that it is an illusion. You who perceive the veil, are not veiled. Om. [long silence] Now, leave everything. Every thought, every intention, every seed of memory, leave them. There is no need to destroy or to throw away. Simply leave everything now, even the very idea of yourself. If each thing that you could perceive, Come more deeply in. Do not be combined with any thought, Are you not still here? But as what are you here? Leave all definitions, all intentions, Are you not still here? Are you less? Leave all that is personal and see if you can lose your Self. Do not be overtaken by sleep. Stay in the bright awareness Self. Whatever is passing, It is not permanent. Like clouds, let them float by. There is no need to push or pull. Recognise your stillness, your effortless stillness. And be happy. In truth, your are not the thinker of thoughts, or the doer of actions, or even the enjoyer of this world. All these you perceive. In your essential nature, nothing is needed. Pay attention and see. It is important to recognise this. Because, when this is known this world will not trouble you. It will not be seen as your enemy. In fact, it will become the very body of God. Notice your own natural stillness and silence. In itself, it never changes. It does not go, nor come. Do not confuse the movement of the body and mind as your movement. And yet, in this dynamic expression of the Self, you are also here. Recognising the real, the unreal, the momentary, will not disturb you. God-Consciousness-Brahman is your sole Being. Rejoice in this. If there should arise within you notice that even this is seen. Don't give it such importance. It is only a sensation. It is not a definition of what you are. Long before this body came into existence, you already existed as consciousness. There is work to be done here, and that is to bring, into the dynamic field, Because your life in this world Lord Christ once said in prayer, 'Father, let me be again with you, as I was before the beginning of this world'. But when does this world begin? It begins in the mind. You are not the mind. The mind does not exist Our sense of personhood is a brief association of the consciousness with the sense of person; a state we must transcend. If heaven is a place, or state, where there are beautiful forms of trees and beautiful mountains, skies and rivers, then it is also phenomenal, of the highest kind. But in pure consciousness, you are even beyond heaven and heavenly states. Oh, don't reject heaven. Sahaja itself is a small taste of heaven. But that which I point to has been beyond all form, It is immeasurable. It is limitless. Uncreated and unchanging. Know this to be the very essence. Yet, don't simply imagine that you are here. Transcend the mind's influence by keeping your attention rooted in the Self. Trust in God while the sense of individuality and personhood or even autonomy remains with us. And pray that the supreme One and that we are merged in that singular being. Do not think of yourself as being special. Rather, be nothing. Like zero beyond the concept of zero. Then everything returns to its essence. Don't make the mistake of believing or feeling that the pure Self is a high state of feeling. It is much subtler It is pure awareness. It is the only thing that is truly here. Everything else is a cloud passing, including the seeker. When what the seeker seeks is found, the seeker is no more. May what has been shared today find its way deep within your being, beyond even remembering, into the very core of your own Self. Do not let sleep cause you to miss it. It is not the time to sleep. As I said before, in a sleeping world. Don't sleep now. Though the mind might fight your heart knows these things. Honour what is in your heart. Lord Jesus Christ and all the saints and prophets were lights in this world, and still are. From your pure heart shines Don't let your mind cover it. Mind and ego offer a life with death at the end of it. But the heart reveals the life, eternal and pure. You choose. The words that have been spoken to you emanated out of my heart. These words will pass, but where they come from will never pass. They come from the same place We are the speaking and the listening, Do not give these things to your mind. If you feel the prayer in your heart, real understanding comes and awakens in you and your harmony with God, who is Truth. Today we honour the spirit of Christ, who is also the light shining inside the heart. Not only the person of Christ, which is not other than Krishna consciousness, or the heart and essence of all saints, Our life is the fruit of their seeing, the testimony of their realisation. The spirit of Christ It is the living and timeless Being, the life that is emanating through this body. And it is to be known and recognised, while this body is still warm. While we have the sense of time, use time to discover the timeless. The Buddha is a true Master. Drink directly from the Master's lips Rama, Krishna, Christ, the holy prophets: drink directly from the Masters' lips Drink the cup of grace. But the Lord supreme is beyond all. Beyond all names and forms, He dwells within the heart Begin to find Him Be one with this intuition, the sense 'I am', and don't let it connect with any other concept. It will take you to the heart of God. Though I am timeless, in my phenomenal life, Make use of this time to discover and confirm Then you will know that May the peace, the love and wisdom and all the holy saints and prophets, arise and abide in your heart, and support your in accordance with the will of God. Let it be so. Let it be so. Let it be so. Om, shanti, shanti, shanti. Hallelujah. Amen. [sound of the bell] Om. Copyright (c) 2019 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd's express consent.