Cheese. You know it. You love it. In Western culture, every shape, size, and we eat it with Some of you may be eating We see you, Mary. But what do we really and where did it come Well, get ready, because From its simple beginnings Weird History is about the story of cheese. Before we get started, be History channel and let below what your Now sit back with a charcuterie We're about to cheese it up. The moon is made Problems of John Heywood. The history of cheese is wrapped as a packet of Kraft singles Cheese's origin story and it can be difficult between myth and fact. At one point in may have actually believed Well, in this case, This lunar surface is an ashed rind goat cheese Kind of like the moon, but But before we talk about cheese, After all, we wouldn't without some moomoo juice. Milk has been intertwined for thousands of years. Let's go back to the Greeks originated the word meaning milk. Greek mythology says was formed when Hera, wife of spilled her breast milk while Each one of her little equals one star Looking out into the one cannot help but think, wow, How big was that kid? Was that a single squirt or was attention and left the The universe's mysteries. Hindus also have a milk in that the creation was done by Vishnu, a massive sea of milk. Needs more salt. Even the Virgin Mary showing her breast lactating. Turning to science, milk is The term mammal in Latin and is part of mammalia, which But when did we start drinking Who discovered we could and what did he think he Billy Connolly. The rise of farming and the domestication of animals lead man into his first Evidence points to BC that the first were the Sumerians, one of the who lived in which today would be the and Iran. Sheep and goats were for a number of reasons. Along with their generally those animals were in smaller spaces, making it easier to corral Cows would eventually get gated of what is now Turkey. Domesticated animals were where babies would drink The act of tapping has taken place throughout The founders of Rome, are depicted feeding raised the twin brothers. But how are baby is alone other animals? After all, aren't we We know someone who is. Look at him, watching There was a point when and, around 5,500 BC, adults or kept the lactase enzyme them to drink and digest milk. Babies can drink milk without because of rennet. Rennet is an enzyme found that curdles the casein in into lactic acid. Generally, that enzyme goes away We'll see in a moment why And what's cheese? Corpse of milk. James Joyce, Ulysses. In Greek mythology, the who was the god of was also the god If you're giving a god credit surely cheese was pretty But in reality, around a few thousand were created. The ongoing myth of is that years ago, presumably in the milk in a pouch made and inadvertently going for a drink of some Let's quickly see how Basically, making cheese is a starter culture, and rennet. The lactic acid and the rennet separates Traditional rennet is from Early cheese was probably of this process. There's evidence occurring around 8,000 by Neolithic farmers. Concurrently, the coming into its own, which of pottery and ceramics, into reality. Ceramics and pottery helped and transport but early versions With a warm Middle Eastern naturally occurring milk would quickly spoil, These curds would be and a version of the cheese After seeing this happen, before people started and realizing this was With this ability was able to spread around This gave people from when it came to their survival. A few thousand we see evidence of popping up around the Cheese is milk's leap Clifton Fadiman. Around 5,000 years was believed to have Using reeds, Egyptians of cottage cheese, Egyptian pharaohs were buried giving them a tasty I hope they brought In 2010 at a burial site Necropolis, archaeologists mass in jars that belonged to a This whitish mass ended cheeses ever discovered. We all love well aged this particular hunk is Coming back to the Greeks created an early feta cheese as well as a similar to modern day Pecorino. The Iliad, which was mentions cheese and linking it to healing. The Odyssey does as tells of how putting curd into a basket Greeks would use an offering and even a young Spartan's rite But when you think of Greece, It is such a popular of the cheese Today, feta is protected The cheese known be produced in certain We'll get to more product Let's go to Rome, and do what both rich Eat cheese. The ancient Romans commonly before meals and even You would think milk would but milk tended to be and in northern Europe. Romans would consider them low And if you know the ancient was a barbarian. When in Rome, be catty. Rome produced a variety as well as imported cheese As the Roman Empire and the Mediterranean, of feeding the nearly 500,000 But hard cheeses became the of Roman soldiers. Many soldiers also doubled A soldier's daily one ounce of Pecorino, or as the Romans would Pecora translates But it would be a that we would see the emergence iconic cow cheeses. This would be around the Empire collapsed manners were gifted to the church, where we would see the rise Hast thou not poured and curdled me like cheese? Job, speaking of God. It may be shocking to hear, has been one of food's Monks have played a life's nourishments They've also had a huge hand the recipes and Making cheese was a since most monasteries were also Monks also lived so making cheese, something intensive and time complement their lifestyle. We can thank St. Benedict, and a true saint for cheese. Benedict lived during the and was a religious instrumental in the These monks, who were devoted labor, helped bring a new into the world, the In your normal washed rind cheeses are well, smelly, stinky, nasty. A washed rind just means a soft cow's milk cheese, The wash makes the surface and it is that in giving most washes a reddish smell. As you can see on this piece those white tufts are the but safe and delicious to eat. Most brines are saltwater, but can also be used. Using beer or wine quite a bit of sense, since making both. Cheese, beer, and wine? Yes please. Monks, the OG BYOB. Most monasteries were and France. With monks experimenting and processings, they helped such as Limburger, In fact, muenster, which gets monasterium, which was created around 1371 by this guy. I know, I know. I was disappointed too. One of the most sometimes called the king of Created at the end of the monastery of Epoisses, the for over 200 years before being Even everyone's favorite was a fan of this Today, in Paris, because it is illegal to carry Say, stinky. Monasteries didn't just Having played a role in well-known cheeses such as de moine, which translates Another saint to be be St. Gall, who in the helped bring forward As mountain cheeses near the French border, Gruyere was so popular, in seized control of He then moved cheesemakers to settle and grow Alpine cheeses are an example according to the season, are in the highlands and the lowlands in the winter, straw, and fodder to make the Mont d'Or. Around the year 774 AD, the was created by monks The cheese became when Charlemagne stopped by He was so blown away that he asked for to his castle on Charlemagne basically In the 14th century, in is where Parmesan, at least the was developed. Thanks to the intuitiveness they developed an and turned the Po into a fertile agricultural and cow's milk cheese Advancements in cattle helped the Dutch become the in the Dutch language. That term was not The Dutch people were People who just sat around which sounds like some But the Dutch around watching windmills spin. They had been making were occupied by the and were actually way While the Romans taught the the Dutch took it The quest to feed required them to offer With their understanding of their cattle became led to an increase Henceforth, the Netherlands in milk, and it would be the first records of the or pronounced &quot;how-da&quot; if we're Being a dry cheese to transport to the furthest Speaking of shelf life, let's when England developed Originally named after is also a verb, is a unique process involving slicing strained curd, to draw more whey out. It's a process a pretty smoothly textured its ability to have a England exported the to their colonies, including as well as America. US cheesemakers, stuck with making exclusively of the Civil War. Cheddar is also unique in that to be mass produced and it would be change the course of cheese You can't make everyone happy. You're not cheese. Anonymous. When you think of you might think of But this also applied In the 18th and 19th of industrialization, along and innovations, would lead where it would to fromage but artisanal In America in the developed across the a cheese could cover. To keep up with developed and started for the production of cheese. In 1851, in Rome, New York would build the first cheese This factory would be a boon of processed cheese. The independently could keep up the of booming American cheese popping up all over the US. Wisconsin alone to over 1,500 cheese factories, But as we know now, the with the OG cheese heads. And in 1864, Louis Pasteur which is heating milk to kill in raw milk. It would take a but in 1935, the first pasteurized milk would be made. Artisanal cheese that pasteurizing milk also from the cheese. In 1918, America would see the curious cheeses, Velveeta. Created by Emil Frey of Velveeta was a happy intended to melt and mixing it into a Kraft would buy the and tweak the formula. Kraft's nutritious Velveeta In 1954, given refrigeration and the birth of the milk in the coffin for Industrialization also It took work away from women. In the traditional women with the being both milkers were also the Factories were dominated by not being capable of working of the industry. As factory production did the number of ingredients. Going from the traditional rennet, enzymes, to a sample skim milk, whey, milk protein corn syrup solids, salt, cheese culture, sodium sorbic acid, natural carrageenans, apo titanium dioxide, autolyzed vitamin A palmitate, As recently as 2016, the contains cellulose, which is added to prevent the grated Mm, fiber. After industrialization, in the demise of In England, between rationing, and cheese farm-made cheese was after World Wars 1 and 2. Industrial cheeses were cheaper, but also led to the rise of have an impact on the as animals are confined indoors in the pasture, eating With industrialization, not only sometimes the animals For example, take the This queso comes from of the Manchega sheep breed, The black sheep really live and was on the verge of to the animal than its white counterpart. Now it all looks pretty and pop cheese home team. But who was going You have to be a romantic to and your time and cheese. Anthony Bourdain. In the United can thank for the return were the hippies. Yeah, that's right. Those dirty, peace loving, during the 1960s helped lead the making. Aided by the rise in American artisanal to grow throughout and it was in the early 2000s beer, whisky, and producers proliferated. In 2012, over 800 small produced more than 300 more than doubling the Today, the USDA reported that has declined by 4%. The rise of artisan the previously sheep, who may produce less is creamier and tastier and Outside of Spain, busy in other parts of to protect both the with a fromage a standard for especially given many of the The AOC, or Appellation was first developed and cheese soon gained with blue sheep's milk first earning that Very appropriate which in 1393, implemented an when he granted a of Roquefort-sur-Soulzon in France. Every king thereafter which helped conceptualize AOC as a sort of that covers all from both the geography, even the specific Terroir was mentioned and it's a word you hear It's how each helps shape the character produced. The AOC designation from getting ripped off. Even our stinky This cheese had pretty much in the mid-1950s. Farmers helped with the regional knowledge The cheese gained popularity Charles de Gaulle once said-- [SPEAKING FRENCH] De Gaulle may have actually Today in France alone, there different types of cheese, have received AOC designations. While France has many other countries, including use other acronyms, such as Controllata, to indicate when In America, because of we can make and sell but it's not a true Parmesan. To get a real look for Parmigiano-Reggiano. This regional version is length to age of the cheese, area, meaning that to cheese has to come from provinces of Italy. While Europe has protected some well-known names are used more generically, say less about where the to describe the product While many aspects changed over thousands of years, Throughout its cheese go through a cycle of And seeing how cheese is Given the impact our changing landscape, be in the next 50 years? But as long as good and might as well enjoy a and remember to support your So what do you think? What are the foods would Let us know in the And while you're at it, check videos from our Weird History.