- So guys, today we're and as you guys know, I'm - Wait, wait, wait (record scratching) Karina. You know that, you already forgot that we are only supposed to hide one color today. (dramatic music) So, you're gonna get red - But I was preparing hiding spots! - No, no, no, no, no! Mhm, I'm gonna find you so easily! - What if I get like purple! What in the house is purple? - I guess those diapers over there! (Dramatic sad music) - You want me to find in diapers? - Sure! - All right so guys so I guess only one color and the winner (In unison) get the Mystery box! (Dramatic music) - We don't know what's in so we want to know what's in it. - Who's gonna get red (Both laughing) - All right so, let's begin, - Karina there's no mystery from the bowl! - Oh, okay. I thought - But first we need to do who is the hider! - Awh, okay. (In unison) Rock, Paper, Scissors, shoot! - Yes, yes! - No, no! (Screaming) - All right, so I'm gonna pick my color. - Okay there you go but - Please get a neutral color, all right... (Heartbeat) - Just get red, red. - Blue? (Laughter) - Yes, yes, yes! - Karina's like in the swimming pool (Laughter) - W-What's blue? - The swimming pool, I don't know! - You can see right Uhg, that color's so hard! - Yes, I can get an easy dub, oh yeah! - Oh no, guys pray for me I blue that I can hide in! - So guys, I'm going first to hide but Ron has - Hahaha! - Very nice fancy headphones, so he can't see or hear me. - Mhm. - All right, lets do this! - Bye! - Bye bye Ronald! - Okay guys I have no idea where to hide. There's nothing in the house that's blue, so I gotta be looking everywhere. Um, Ronald, let's check Okay he has a blue bed, I can't really hide underneath it. Uh, hmm. He's got some blue clothing What's in the bathroom? Nothing blue, okay. Um, Let's check in this room. It's a blue bed again, I don't Uh, blue boxes, think I I don't think I could All right, I'll go upstairs then okay. (Heavy breathing) All right, it's been one minute long. Okay, I'm gonna go to my parents room. They have a lot of blue clothing Another blue bed. Blue curtains, maybe behind the curtains. (Gasp) Maybe this a perfect spot this bed thing. I just have to move it right behind it, right That's perfect! Ron will never hide m-, find me there. The only thing is it's gonna sun, that's right there. Hopefully I don't over heat. Oh gosh, I don't think (Rustling) All right, I'm in my hiding spot. I don't know if it's great looks on the outside, if on the outside, hopefully - So guys, Karina's three over and I know for a fact should be easy to find. Timer starts, now! Okay, blue, blue, blue. Karin- Karina are you in something blue? Yes you are, obviously. Um, in the pool? No, okay my room has all the Okay, Karina? Blue, blue, um, behind here? Um, Uh, what else could be blue? (Heavy breathing) Okay, um, in here. No not in there, um behind here? No! Karina? All right follow upstairs. Karina's room. Oh Karina! That's not blue. This should be really easy! (Heavy breathing) Oh, this is technically blue! No. Karina! Oh wait that door's open! (Dramatic music) - [Ron] Karina! Are you in here? Those are blue. (Rustling) Karina! Lets go! - [Karina] Oh no you found me! (laughing) - I saw that this, the I was like oh I- - No I should've closed the door! - I was gonna check there so I was like ooh! - Ron found me, he has one point! - Yes! - So guys, Ronald just won the closer to the mystery box! I mean, I'm getting really want the mystery box! So I better win this game. I'm gonna be searching so fast - Well I'm gonna get white, gray, or whatever is a good color! - Please get red! - Okay, time to unfold. - Red, red, red, red! - Purple!? (Karina laughing) - I only have one thing In the guest bedroom there's - Oh God, what else is purple! - There's nothing else purple Ron! - Wait, I can hide in the diapers! (Brah sound) - I don't think you should (Laughter) - All right, I'm going to I'm gonna look at all the like two purple things in the house. I'm gonna win for sure! (Groan) - You are over confident, I - Ron, name three things that - No, I don't want to tell - Ron, you can't even name three! (laughing) I'm for sure gonna win. All right I'm gonna go into the Ronald good luck, cause - Okay. So guys, it's time to find my hiding spot, I have to be quick cause I I have to find a purple that I'm gonna hide, in these that this is like the only Along with these things and thinks that are like purple because I want to trick her a lot. She gave away the spots (Baby crying) Area, don't cry. And I think I have and in a hurry, I got three minutes. - This, is where we're the private room. I mean like , Karina's gonna I shouldn't go in there I'm in here, and you might be asking, &quot;Ronald well what is Purple in here!?&quot; Well, let me tell you little picky person! (Laughing) The purple thing is right here! And I set it up in a way, So if she opens the door she won't see me cause this is blocking. Little does she know that But, let's go inside! And we're gonna be facing she might look here because and she might be looking And then she'll think that and she won't really realize of it- - Boring! - We are in place. - So guys I got two minutes to find Ron! I think I know where Ron's very little purple things in the house. So let's go, come on! All right, first I'm gonna and everything. Okay Hi George, hi Aria! (Baby gooing) Okay. I have to go back. Hello, Ronald? This is purple. (Rustling) Here we go! I'm fast, okay. I think Ronald's upstairs &quot;Private&quot; and I'm pretty sure (Heavy breathing) Ronald I caught you red handed! I found you! - No! - Yes! Yes, I did it! I found Ronald! - That's so like, you - I was running at like flash speed like ! - Oh my goodness, I all the purple things! - Mhm - Well, it's one to one. - All right, next round I'm have the most epic hiding spot! - Mhm - So guys, I just got one point fast in one minute. (crying) So that means I'm one step But also Ronald's a step closer. So hopefully in the next Ronald's gonna be like, &quot;Oh my - Okay Karina, Just pick - It's not gonna be red - Watch this, watch this, watch this! - It's not gonna be red. - Three, two- (heartbeat) - I can sense- gray. - Yes! (Laughing) Gray, yes! - But like, wait tell me! - No, I'm not telling you never, ever, ever, ever! - The basement's filled with gray things. The only really gray thing in - There's plenty- - Oh wait, I know! I'm not gonna tell you. - What? - Nothing, nothing, nothing! - Wait, Ronald. - (Evil laughing) I'm gonna find you! - So guys it's my turn to go I'm gonna be hiding and I don't think Ronald's ever gonna find me. - You wish. - All right Ronald, here you go. All right, bye bye! So guys, timer starts now, I think I know where I'm gonna go hide. I'm gonna hide in the couch, the couch but now I'm really Ya know, but if I squeeze, I think I might just be able to make it. All right, so our couch has I can take out. I'm gonna try to hide in there. (Crickets) I can try. Okay, um, uh. I don't know if I should going head first or with my toes first or. All right. (Groaning) I fit, I'm fitting, it's a I need this thing, all right. Oh, I need the camera too, um. Uh, I don't know if I'm it's really squished, okay So guys, I'm inside the to record inside because its so squishy. I can barely fit my arms in, Ron outside, what's happening. - So guys I think I know need to win this cause I Okay, time starts now! She's behind the couch, she is! Hi! - What, you found me!? I tried so hard trying to get in here! - You're never gonna find (laughing) - I knew it! Wow guys, that was so easy, - I might need help getting out. - I think I found some gold! - Uhg, I don't know if I'm - What if I extend those? - You can't. - Oh, you shouldn't - I wanted to win! Let me get my arms out. - Yay, one arm came out! - I knew you where in the saying she's in the couch? - Yes - And you're in the thing. - Yay, I found an animal! (Heavy breathing) - I'm so hot, it's so sweaty in there. Guys, that was definitely not worth it. I spent so long trying to get And I'm so hot, and Ron (Evil laughter) - Hopefully next time I'll do better. - So guys, I found Karina that means its two to one and I am winning! I have a higher chance of well now I need to pick - Ron, you're gonna pick red, I know. - I don't think there is red. Okay, I picked one, brown, - Red, red! - Brown, brown! Yes, brown, brown, brown! - No, I'll never find Ronald! - Aha, everything is brown! Well technically if every can I hide in just every room? - No, you can't do that, that's cheating. - Okay Okay Karina, it's time for three minutes, I might take longer. - I don't know. - Well I can't, well still, okay lets go! Okay so guys, I think I cause there is options. So, I'm gonna say all the options, Karina's probably I'm just gonna do it really quietly. So, the first option is in ever checks in here, maybe So that's the first option. Okay, next option there's so Next option, I hide under pretty obvious. Uh, where else? Oh yes, in here. I can hide in here cause This is a mirror, but these If you open it you can see its brown but I probably can't fit in there, so yeah. So guys, I feel like of these, but I made I don't think she's ever gonna find me. It's this. Now, you're probably like, Okay yes, I know, Mr. Coo guess what I'm gonna do with this? I'm gonna cover myself with it! So I'm gonna cover myself Karina will just walk past Okay so guys I have my we need to do is remove the big things, so we don't stand out that much. Put that here and make that look casual. Okay what else do we need? This, it's not really brown. She's gonna complain its Okay, uh lets get rid of put them in the corner. I don't know why but she has of finding me, that's what I feel like. But this can go horribly Okay, so, I'm gonna put myself this way. Okay um, I'm going inside. (toy bells jingling) I'm scared. - So guys, my turn and I got So I gotta go find Ronald, let's go! All right uh, I'm gonna The door's open! Ronald, I'm gonna find you! (Dragging) No, he's not there. Ronald? I'm gonna find you Ronald! (Frantic mumbling) (Rustling) Um. (Mumbling and heavy breathing) I'm getting really tired Come on Ronald! I'm gonna find you! (Heavy breathing) Hello? (Intense heavy breathing) (Mumbling) Ronald? (Stomping) Ronald? Cat, move sorry. Ronald? What else is brown?! Where can Ron be hiding? No, I didn't find Ronald! (Loud breathing) R-Ronald, where are you? - [Ronald] In the living room! - You're- (Evil laughing) - You're in there. (Loud sigh) - But this is gray! - No, this is brown. - But this is gray. - But I was mostly hiding in this. - Ronald this is gray. - No, but most of the place - Ron, you where hiding lots of colors in here, - But this was covering me, this was the main concept of covering me. - Ronald- I think Ronald because of this. - (mockingly) Oh okay. - I think we should let Ari Ari what color is this? - Let's see Aria what do you - She doesn't even care. - It's multi-colored! - I think she says brown! - No it's not. - (Baby voice) It's brown. - It's not just brown, look - That wasn't covering me. - (Baby voice) Look at this This, right here, yes it is brown! - Admit your fait! - This is gray Ronald! - You won all the past I think it's my turn to shine. - But before we didn't have - (mockingly) Oh mhm. - So guys that means open up the mystery box. - Yay! - I've been sweating for around the place and I didn't win. - Um when I was under my own breathing hole! - Yeah but when I was in the - I caught you right away so you're lucky! Okay guys, it is time! I am shaking, okay count down with me! - Okay (In unision) Five, four, three, two, one! (Screaming) - Look at all that chocolate! Oh my- I love Kit-Kat! - W-Wait, wait! (Inaudible frantic talking) - Wait! - But! (Excited screaming) - What! You got all that? Wait, wait, this is not fair! Look at all this chocolate Ronald! - Okay, okay, you get to have one M&amp;M. - What! - Okay I'm kidding, you - I guess some is better then nothing. (Inaudible mumbling) - There like doughnuts - Ohh! Okay guys, so I was not I'm really happy and also - Oh I do?! - Yeah! - What can I have, can I have the kit-Kat? - Sure but not all. - Oh okay. - Well not all of it! Okay guys that is the end all next time. (In unison) Bye! (Hip-Hop beat)