The woman known to history as Catherine Howard was born a noblewoman, at some Her father, was one was Edmund Howard, and her mother was Jocasta Culpepper, who in contemporary documents from the period. Joyce survived to adulthood - an incredible occurrence children with her first husband, Sir Ralph Leigh, Howard, of whom Catherine was the second-youngest. in a stately but modestly-appointed house provided by Lord Edmund'shis father, and was Surrey. Edmund often bemoaned his aristocratic was one of the Duke's younger sons, and his modest much less his wife and children, in the style was considered vulgar for a Tudor nobleman. a local justice of the peace at Lambeth, and was found himself continuously in debt. He was resources he did have and spent most of his ducking his creditors, and avoiding The date of Catherine Howard's birth is uncertain as early as 1518 and others dating it as late as likely in light of documentary evidence. The will which was probated in 1524, mentions Catherine's and Margaret, but not Catherine herself, or her were either too young yet to be considered, the 1527 will of Catherine's maternal grandmother a date of birth somewhere between 1522 and 1525, then Catherine was, at most, no more than By the following year, Edmund Howard had embarked and according to custom, some or perhaps all of in the homes of Howard's relatives. This was The early modern English practice of "putting even if both parents were still living and perhaps a near-majority between the ages of six of their immediate family to complete training or considered necessary for working-class children labour to their families. But gentry and noble Some historians believe they did so to keep the who might indulge them rather than impose King Henry's son, Prince Edward, was taken from age of six, and given into the care of a governor As a result of this widespread practice of probably did not get the opportunity to develop siblings during childhood, although at least one to her new household. Catherine did welcomed with her siblings later on, however, when she when she was probably between six and eight the household of Edmund's widowed stepmother, Catherine spent roughly the next decade living estate of the Duchess at Horsham, in Sussex, or at probably the most prominent noblewoman in England. or Henry's daughters could claim precedence over any child to be placed in, one in which the childy and to meet the right people. TAnd the Duchess at any time, as many as a dozen children of so Catherine would hardly have been lonely. what was known as the Maidens' Chamber, home to both wards and servants. At first glance, little or no pride of placedifference in the and those of humbler origins under the Duchess' Catherine might have played, laughed, argued, any number of of a group of children from diverse the Howard name, her rank, and heritage one which makes the observer doubtit could have prevented her from having her Catherine and her brother George were the only and Catherine's status probably gave her and arrangements of the Maidens' Chamber the boarding school-style atmosphere probably did details are known about Catherine's childhood, a rather lax and unstructured upbringing for Documentary evidence does suggest that the Dowager and supervisor, and that as a result, her wards who was in her seventies and headed a there was little she could do to police the Catherine's contemporaries remarked on the notable but many of the same critics were willing to which was immediately warm and engaging. among children from many different backgrounds aristocrats, Catherine Howard less haughtiness for which the nobility were renowned. hardly have endeared her to those who expected to act as onethe part. And unfortunately, Agnes Howard's household was to have catastrophic Catherine received an education similar to Conduct and etiquette would have been her who would undoubtedly have to appear at court properly walk, stand, sit, and curtsey, as well according to their rank. She would have how to make polite conversation, but also likely Catherine probably received her most extensive contemporaries as a fine and graceful dancer. She reportedly learning to play the virginal, a small the lute. However, she does not seem to haveit in music for very long. Between the ages of and write. She does not appear to have had anyShe beyond basic literacy, but this was In fact, the Tudor princesses were some of as well and as carefully and as well educated philosophy, geography, and multiple When Catherine Howard was between twelve and from a teacher named Henry Manox*, a man at to make romantic and sexual overtures toward the nature of their relationship, with Many modern observers would readily agree, time of this relationship. But Catherine was also Tudor era, fairly close to the age of eligibility willingly to Manox's* advances. , which from a it commonly viewed as exploitative "grooming" Catherine and Manox* had a relationship which did not cross the final physical boundary. glad later on that they it had not. According to Lascelles*, Manox* had admitted that while he he nonetheless boasted that he Reportedly furious when she learned this, who soon resigned his Our understanding of history is often less heavily the scholars who interpret and write about them. Howard as a morally loose and promiscuous young different attitudes. Most no longer view sexual or destructive, and feminist interpretations to challenge the traditional indictment* of her recent biographer has highlighted the overtones of in a position of trust in her life. No more than man named Francis Dereham* came to join the Francis Dereham* began his employment as in 1538. He was probably the same age as Manox*, fourteen or fifteen. The two formed an attachment may have lasted nearly two years. Dereham* called They gave each other small gifts and love tokens. while she embroidered an armband and a friars' to Catherine when he went away on business. Maidens' Chamber is a strong one, because entertained Dereham* there as many times as she without the Duchess finding out. And unlike certain that Catherine's relationship with To any casual observer during the Tudor period, eventually marry. In fact, in medieval and early declared their intention to wed one another and "precontracted," which was as good Unfortunately for the young couple, the Duchess Apparently acting out of jealousy, the rejected exposing Francis and Catherine's relationship, the Duchess was quick to send Dereham* away. He eventually return. But by the time he didhad, risen to become Queen Consort of England. It is her parting from Francis Dereham*. In any event, would not have been permitted to marry him, or was better born than Henry Manox*, but likely In the autumn of 1539, King Henry VIII was Anxious to add a Howard lady-in-waiting to the that his young niece Catherine should be sent Catherine's father, Edmund Howard, had died the Duke, promptly took advantage of his new Soon after Catherine's arrival at court, she very personal servants, member of the Privy Chamber, It is not clear if their acquaintance predates believe that an affection may have grown between Catherine's apparent affection for Culpepper would By January of 1540, it was abundantly clear that seeking to divorce his latest wife. It is not but by March, there was already talk of crossing the Thames toward Lambeth to visit many in the capital believed, was already his had left a power vacuum at court. anxious to dispense with this new Queen who was Catherine was very young - probably no well-educated, meaning. As a result, she seeking a woman to help manage the King. She was, that seemed to be enough. The King was nearing lady-in-waiting speaks eloquently of a midlife first meeting with Anne of Cleves, claiming that unintentionally and publicly embarrassed Henry and thus behaving coldly toward him. This awkward dislike of her. Some historians believe that of the King's age and health problems, in Henry's failure to consummate his fourth multiple parties of his potency and virility in in self-defense it might seem to some observers. Catherine would doubtless have helped some of his lost youth. And evidence suggests The miniature painted by Hans Holbein is one of the few portraits which most historians a few have pointed out that the early date range might well in fact be Anne of Cleves instead. not auburn like the subject in the the sitter's identity as Queen may reasonably Henry is known to have gifted the same royal and the jewels worn by the subject are identical to those worn by Jane Seymour in her the subject assumed to be Catherine Howard has and her brown eyes gaze softly and knowingly at which the observer is not. She has a full, lips and eyebrows. What can be seen of her figure of a double-chin in the portrait, which might Another Holbein sketch roughly dated from Woman," is also believed by several scholars the subject appears even younger than the one more exaggeratedly delicate features than those in in disgrace with her husband keen to forget her, to be sure which of the numerous Tudor portraits certain. Contemporary observers described her Throughout the spring of 1540, Henry showered and even lands. Aware of the King's interest dispense with his current wife, the Duke and Catherine with regard to how she should behave Catherine's biographers believe that she and Henry when the King began to noticeably escalate Perhaps the renewed urgency stemmed from a On the 28th of July, 1540, only six months Henry VIII married Catherine Howard at Henry's new Queen Consort settled into She adopted a badge featuring a crowned rose and "No other will than his," a sentiment which could was clearly besotted with his young bride. His Henry's constant and openly affectionate behaviour keep his hands off her, and continued to spoil Henry took his bride on a six-month honeymoon going from one royal palace to another, hunting, doing what the newly married often do. Because and because he had no more children after the speculated that he was unable to consummate any last two spouses - Katherine Parr in particularly Other historians disagree strongly however, married couples was heartily encouraged, and at any age. Moreover, men of mature as Catherine Howard during the Tudor period, There is evidence to suggest that Henry his marriage to Catherine that she might be a policy beginning with his third marriage - not she had produced an heir. But shortly before their preparations seem to have been underway for a never materialized since Catherine was not found that she may have had a short pregnancy, which Simply being the darling of her husband's eye most observers, but then, Henry was by no means friends, courtiers, and clergy in his past could significant credit for carefully, intelligently, as Queen. Henry's constant fawning over her was, lovingly conform herself to his will. The King even threats when his wives attempted to exercise to do so, as in the case of Katherine of Aragon's Anne Boleyn had stoked resentment in Henry for religious matters. Even Jane Seymour, mother of Henry when she attempted to influence his Pilgrimage of Grace. In contrast to most of her Catherine Howard almost never interfered in policy his kingly prerogative. On the rare occasions she she did so in ways that were socially Like other Queens, Catherine sought promotions but she also interceded with Henry She begged Henry's permission to send warm Salisbury, Lady Margaret Pole, whom Henry had Cardinal Reginald Pole, was carrying on a campaign Catherine's largest single household was what she spent on Margaret Pole's comfort. John Wallop, Sir Thomas Wyatt, and Wyatt's simply for their social proximity to the lately softened by his wife's compassion, relented, and Not only did Catherine play her royal role set out to be her most warm and charming self Anne of Cleves. Now recognized as the King's received at court. This was a somewhat bizarre and most observers would probably understand But rather than keeping her at arm's length, the goodwill. Catherine famously and gaily celebrated Anne of Cleves and other members of the court She also presented Anne with one of the puppies Catherine was keen to cultivate warm Elizabeth and Edward were still very young, just they could not have a mother's care, they were at proved herself perfectly willing to be. The Lady To begin with, the Queen's new stepdaughter highly educated, deeply pious, and rather as a silly and pleasure-loving juvenile, But what else, one might ask, could one reasonably with Catherine's background and upbringing? She Duchess's house and within mere months, had been wealth, and luxury in English society. Such a to revel in it all, the dancing and amusements, seemed shallow to Mary, who had perhaps travelled forcing Mary to grow up quickly. She was also, more substance than the teenaged Queen, but this Mary's seemingly intense dislike of her. Mary the resentment she felt for her father, on to to be forced to reverence what seemed to her an while Henry's first wife one of the most admired royal women in Europe, had probably resented that Henry had cast off Anne of Catherine. Mary's coolness and continued disregard and with an uncharacteristic display of spite Mary's service for the lack of respect theyshe remained high in Henry's favour. But when her Historians have traditionally cited Catherine sexual, however there is no truly firm unfaithful to Henry during their marriage. as those she made with Mannox and Dereham, for it was rumours of these premarital order an investigation into Catherine's past. Yet, Catherine Howard's life, and her marriage to Henry be destined for a terrible and ignominious end, Until the spring of 1541, Henry's promising improvement following his had seen him gain a great deal of weight all at on account of his constantly ulcerated leg. But he enough to become something of his own active Catherine. In December, he even began a weight. But in April of 1541, the wound on keeping him confined to his chambers for weeks gifts to Catherine but refused to see he was anxious that his beautiful young wife It may have been the boredom of life without of her, which that led Catherine into dangerous Some historians believe that Catherine Howard's this time. The full extent of their physical later denied that they had ever slept together. one another, and at least one witness revealed, that Catherine and Culpepper had met secretly and the widowed Lady Rochford, who was one of during questioning that she had many times served and that she had even stood guard outside the meetings. One of the most telling pieces of is the letter which that she wrote to him in her This letter was found in Thomas Culpepper's room not confirm any infidelity on the Queen's part, for him. It is the only document written by "Master Culpepper," it reads, "I heartily how that you do. It was showed me that you were never longed so much for a thing as I do to see shall be shortly now...It makes my heart die to in your company...My trust is always in you, praying for then I shall be best at leisure to be at your that you might see what pain I take in writing Historians have traditionally viewed Catherine's example of her major missteps as Queen, but When Catherine became Queen, the usual stream of seeking positions, some by invitation, but some, was glad to promote the prosperity of her family of Norfolk, was higher in favour than ever and the Her siblings all benefitted from Catherine's brother Charles, who was made a member of the who came to court to serve as lady-in-waiting. But were a few troublingly familiar faces from Joan had once served the Dowager Duchess and had years. Joan wrote to Catherine soon after her and while the letter seems respectful enough, some imply a vague threat: Joan said that she chose honesty" that Joan had always found in her, and In sixteenth-century English, the words "honesty" and it is possible that Joan was reminding past. "I trust," Joan wrote, "that the Queen Catherine promptly installed Mistress Bulmer In a seemingly more risky move, Catherine also gave a position to Francis letter of recommendation from the Dowager Duchess Howard had known about Catherine's premarital and disapproving enough to separate them and then take the enormous risk of recommending him endanger Catherine's reputation, but her own as have blackmailed both the Duchess and Catherine Whatever the case, Catherine obliged and Strangely, on the same day that Henry ordered a for his beloved Queen, the Archbishop of Henry a letter detailing accusations against The informant was John Lascelles, a former anxious to see the religiously conservative that he had received troubling intelligence about served as a housemaid for the Dowager Duchess John had reportedly encouraged his sister to apply strength of their previous acquaintance, and Mary that prior to her marriage, Catherine had living and in conditions." Mary then revealed Henry was utterly shocked. He ordered an but initially seemed to doubt that any might be found. Still, he ordered his Queen until the allegations were dismissed. Sadly, they Catherine's freedoms and honours During his interrogation, Henry Manox readily Catherine, but affirmed that they had not slept accused of intimate former acquaintance without charge. Francis Dereham, however, was romantic and sexual relationship with Catherine but he vehemently denied that they had renewed Under torture, Dereham confessed that he because she had already embarked on a relationship arrested for questioning as well. Culpepper but later admitted that he had intended to When Thomas Cranmer came to "she was in such a pitiable state," he wrote, alternated sharply between terror of what might sexual experiences before her marriage to the and to a certain extent, that of Francis Dereham any precontract between them, or expectation of for the existence of a precontract prior to her an annulment. If her marriage to Henry had been grounds for adultery charges. In the case of a it placed in doubt the legitimacy of potential understand that admitting to a precontract could session, Catherine reportedly changed her for reasons that are still unclear. Perhaps participation, as well as the precontract, this Despite the fact that two of her relationships denied the accusations of adultery, she was in February of 1542. The evidence of such as the letters and gifts exchanged between one of her ladies-in-waiting admitted she had another testified that she had not seen Catherine not confirm that Catherine and Culpepper had slept significant amount of private time alone together she "could not think it otherwise." Sadly, right alongside her unfortunate mistress. Francis die by hanging, drawing, and quartering, but to beheading, presumably owing to his noble Catherine Howard went to her own execution with strangely, she did not send for a confessor but be brought to her, so that she might rehearse gives us a poignant picture of Catherine at the calm, courage, grace, and dignity. The next Catherine was led out onto the Tower Green. She and had to be assisted to mount the scaffold. clearly and steadily. Some sources claim that of Culpepper, but most historians have dismissed words were actually much more conventional. She against the King, exhorted the crowd to pray not rebound unfairly on the members of her family and affirmed her faith in God. This kind of final execution, and showed that Catherine was anxious for the last words the of condemned persons who had suffered what seemed to be a psychotic her mistress to the executioner's block. Parliament to allow insane persons to be Much of the historiography on Catherine Howard Traditionally, she has been depicted as and wanton temptress, a teenaged femme fatale. scholars have used words like "whore" and discourse to describe her. More than any sexuality has been the central focus of most somewhat understandable since it was the central which tell us anything about her personal Recent scholarship has argued that this trend of effect of obscuring almost everything else about hypocritical expression of double standards. L, to see something more closely approximating the susceptible to flattery and adoration, who seems but may have fallen away from him due to A girl who was compassionate to those who were and who was happy to help family members to made mistakes, but who, some historians argue, Whatever one's perspective, Catherine Howard met and with a bravery that one especially in a girl of no older than nineteen. of St. Peter ad Vincula, close to the final her first cousins and fellow martyrs to Henry was reportedly devastated He had firmly believed her to have which for him was problematic enough, but the her Queenly household, and spent time alone with sending him gifts, was evidence enough for Henry Perhaps the most humiliating thing for Henry but what it implied. If his beautiful had seen the need to look elsewhere for sexual suggesting he was too old and impotent to satisfy significantly to his decision to execute her The suggestion of Henry's impotence had pierced This episode may have also facilitated the who was more mature at thirty-one, capable and who promised a warm companionship with someone relationship with Katherine Parr calls to mind the King apparently found much to admire in his What do you think of Catherine Howard? and in the meantime, thank