Congratulations on taking Thank you, priest. Did you see when he said: &quot;Oh, It's unbelievable, for real! Did you see when Isis Unbelievable! It's epic! He kept calling himself Go visit your underworld then, bro! -What's wrong, man? I feel like you're not You don't like treason or something? Or that I killed my brother Of course not, My Lord. But if you'll excuse me... Looks like you'll say Take care, I'm the god of evil! I feel like there was a smarter idea. You think it was a stupid idea? I invited Osiris to dinner, made a coffin of his size, and when he got into Actually, it was a genius idea. The coffin could have not fit him. Why didn't you poison the dinner? Because... Or why didn't we attack This is not smarter, it's lazier. After a few thousand how did the great Set get the throne, you want them to say As if he was my husband who cheated on me. I have some news that Isis found the coffin. What! Catch her! Take the corpse of Osiris same as the number of provinces in Egypt, and put each piece in each province. Now that's a smart idea. She'll never collect the pieces. Now, what? It's a smart idea! Do you have any good ideas? Or do you only project negative energy? No, no. As you like, Your Majesty. -I'm the god of chaos and evil, right? -Not the god of democracy or suggestions? -Am I the god of asking for opinions? You should be the god of cringe. Listen... I have a wardrobe. If it fits you, take it. Thank you so much for your generosity, but I'm not even a priest. I actually have hair. See? Hair! That's just a costume for the sketch. I'm not a priest, I don't even work here. It was nice meeting you, My Hello my dear viewers. Welcome to a new episode of El Daheeh. I have an evil story I'm here to gossip with you, between the god Horus &quot;The show really fell off, Abo Let me tell you, my friend, that is the Department of That's what they do. In case of gods, it's the so it's academic to gossip. The fights between Set and Gilgamesh and Enkidu, if you gossip about all Good gossiping means a PhD. Horus got into a fight with his Set was a strong opponent, not only did he kill Horus' but also he was the god &quot;I feel like it's weird, Abo Hmeed. What you're talking Devils are evil, but It's not a must for them to be good, In fact, in Ancient Egyptian mythology, there weren't devils. In fact, the world didn't know devils as we know them today the divine religions, Judaism, In the old ages, with the presence the idea of a god and a devil who disobeys Evil in Egyptian mythology didn't because of something Egyptian mythology didn't regard that must be destroyed or &quot;How can evil not be It was regarded as a Just like how every story must gods represented concepts of the universe. Even though they were opposite, What if I told you the concept of evil in wasn't represented &quot;Then who represented it, Abo Hmeed?&quot; If you look at the image on the screen, you'll see the parade of the god Ra, a scene that had to happen every night Look at that swirling snake, this was a symbol of destruction, Now look at the one stabbing it and allow the regeneration of life &quot;I'm confused, Abo Hmeed. You're saying that he was the god of evil and killed the snake so I don't get it, isn't the Actually, my friend, there is no place and whoever wants simple answers, Set was a complicated Ancient Egyptians didn't because, as I told you, ancient mythology so the presence of Set allowed monsters to show the violence in them, and their fight eventually brought peace. It was as if Set paid a tax of forever being the symbol of evil to achieve a good fate. &quot;I feel like it escalated quickly. The god Set was one of the most mysterious his look is a mystery itself. Egyptians named the animal but its Hieroglyphic description Is it an extinct animal or a non-existent animal Or was it an exiting animal When you look at him, you feel like he's or some kind of a wild dog. If you think that it's look let me tell you that we don't even know Ancient Egyptians didn't write vowels, so it's impossible to identify the It's possible that his name &quot;Come on, Abo Hmeed. We don't species, or job description. If you want a I'll use the language even though I just called with apologies to the Let's ask another question, When did the worshiping of Set start? His worshiping is very, very old, it's older than the pyramids, and older than the unification of Upper The first recorded was during what's known in a country in the south of Some people suggest because it was close to a Today, it's called Naqadah, and it looks like it was a very To the point that there's a whole section because they discovered old potteries, early writings, and All of this was made in the New Stone Age, that ended 4500 B.C. The Old Kingdom of Egypt was Let me make it easier, there are and there are 4500 years between Cleopatra Set was worshipped in that What was Set the god of there? He was the god of sandstorms that hit the Nile river Ever since he appeared, there and the damage that therefore people worshipped him to Set was the symbol of anything terrifying and anything that could destroy that They didn't worship him to get blessings, but to avoid his evil. Since that place was characterized by A belief spread that humans and In short, we're witnessing a desert with hard conditions, so they needed a suitable Remember that we're talking Upper and Lower kingdoms. This was before King Menes Narme grabbed him by the neck, so he unified both kingdoms into one. Now we have what some people call. Let me tell you that the unification The unification made Egypt All of the country's resources Therefore, the king's legitimacy of securing agriculture and its resources. Set was a god that opposed because Ancient Egyptians connected &quot;Forget about him, Abo Hmeed. Looks like you're a beginner Set was the main god of merchants of caravans, and anyone who uses Route 66 worships Set because if they didn't, they Anyone who worshipped Set didn't if he disrespected Set. In fact, the new king would gain more Here, we can describe as a battle of political influence We can see the echoes of this which wasn't about a but about the political question of who deserved to rule the In the myth, Set and Horus for 80 years to determine During the conflict, Horus' eye In the end, because both the council of gods accepted a compromise Horus ruled the black, fertile land and Set ruled the deserts and To please Set even more, the Astarte and Anat. He also became the wherever Ra went, Set went with him. If you think about the you'll find that it's where the god of civilization and light That didn't happen in Set's myth, where none of the 2 gods was defeated, both gods were satisfied, just As if it was a political of unifying Upper and Lower kingdoms. Therefore it wasn't just an epic but it needed some kind of conciliation. For example, every Egyptian king was crowned symbolically Ancient Egyptians saw that Set stopped any external elements Since politics and religion were we can say that the uniting of both gods The king had Horus inside as well as Set because he was a warrior. That's why some Ancient Egyptian for example king SETI I. If we talk about Set with we'll think that no king would but they actually named themselves after a We can say that political but there was a problem Set appeared as a hero that protected but he also killed his brother and Something wasn't right. In order to understand Set even deeper, we need to do like Marvel to understand the shift that because the conflict between In order to understand how Set fought Horus and gauged his eye, and did evil things, but we we literally have to understand We need to understand the Ancient Egyptian Ancient Egyptians didn't have a specific but we can say that the Egyptian that it accepted multiple myths together, and even explained the &quot;Wow! Is this the Egyptian The myths of the creation that explained differed from one city to another, All of them were regarded as an The most important and famous is the myth of the creation of the or what we know today as 'Ain Shams.' &quot;The one that has the No, my friend, 'Protein El Aelaat' you got myths and 'Hawawshi' In Ra's myth of creation in 'Iunu,' the world was eternal water, my friend, water that had no start or end called Nu. The god Ra appeared and then the until we reach these 4, Isis, They're descendants of Ra, they were independent, but and part of his will to Ever since birth, Set was special. His birth wasn't natural. Set was born in a violent and According to the myth, it exploded and because he chose when to be born. Even though he was born in he was deprived of having Unlike his brother Osiris, who was When Set got married to his sister What did she do? She got into an illicit and gave birth to Anubis, the I told you it's the science of gossiping. Set didn't stand still and was going mad. &quot;My wife, who's my sister, got married to my and gave birth to a child who's my nephew What should I do? Now, I'm this child's maternal What would 'The Lannisters' say? &quot;Which uncle is from my mother After all of this, and he did something that Set killed Osiris, his brother, and literally cut him into 13 pieces, and threw the 14th piece in the Isis, Osiris' wife, went to Nephthys, and told Nephthys to help After Osiris was collected, he [Arab Viewer]&quot;Egyptians, what are you Then, Osiris went to the other Horus, Osiris' son, started fighting Set, When we get to know the origin story, that I told you as a prequel, we can sympathize with Set, the Therefore, you'll sympathize The fight between Set and into a team for Set and one for Horus. They didn't know who was During this fight, Ra, the great noticed a catastrophe that &quot;What catastrophe, Abo Hmeed?&quot; -Apep! No, my friend. Remember the swirling The one I told you was a This monster was here and if he defeated Ra, from the smallest tissue Apep wasn't a natural disaster, my friend, he wasn't a storm, a famine, or a drought, he was the 'Night King,' he was the equivalent of Apep didn't want us to die he wanted us to perish as if we were never born. &quot;That's better, Abo Hmeed.&quot; Stop being so nihilistic, Apep's original aim was to There was a problem, he didn't he couldn't annihilate himself. For some reason, he only then he could annihilate himself. We're not witnessing a greedy, evil, vengeful, smoking, and a We're witnessing a monster that wants for himself and I don't understand why didn't While the monster had all of these goals, Ra saw that all gods were fighting. &quot;Guys! You're fighting about Keep in mind that none of you except for one god.&quot; &quot;I don't get it, which god, Abo Hmeed? The episode is about him! &quot;Oh, you mean Set?&quot; Good job, my friend, the god Set. Since he killed a god before, Osiris, it wouldn't be difficult specially because &quot;What I know about shouldn't this apply to all god? Even Osiris went to the That's where the trick lies, my friend, it tells you that Ancient Actually, the immortality of gods I don't mind if you don't mind. &quot;What do you mean by &quot;periodic,&quot; Abo Ancient Egyptians &quot;Modern Egyptians do as well.&quot; Since the sun rises and sets, the moon has a monthly and the flooding of the Nile therefore everything That's why Ancient Egyptians believed meaning that all gods to be reincarnated to life again. Even Ra had to The only god who was immortal and didn't have to die -&quot;Set?&quot; There aren't any death stories of him, and we didn't find any stories because he was connected to a fixed &quot;Abo Hmeed, didn't you just and water fluxes and refluxes?&quot; Yes, my friend, but the 'Great exists in a fixed place in the sky. Set is connected to this phenomenon, and this is what qualified I really feel bad for the Ancient Imagine that saving depends on someone is sterile, usurped the his wife cheated on him, Imagine that that's your hero, a hero who However, the god of evil Why? Because his nature is the closest Oh my God! What a well-written Only those with equally bad After all, Set was a part of therefore his fight with so he would be ready to fight Apep. This wasn't a fight in a but it's a regenerative fight in where Set can kill annihilation The day Set doesn't kill mortality, we will not be there to witness. In order for the Ancient Egyptian to be able to do this, it had to make him go He went through a brutal birth moment, he killed his brother and gouged his nephew's eye. As if he had the perfect CV to shift his personality to be closer to and save Ra and the rest &quot;I really love Set now, Abo Hmeed.&quot; It actually didn't stop there, When he killed his brother, he to turn Osiris into a martyr so he would become an Set killed Osiris in a symbolic way Osiris' power was related to That's why priests used a to open the corpse's mouth. As if they were summoning turn into living bodies just like what he did with Osiris. We can say that Set but he was necessarily evil, where if you remove Osiris was the symbol of he wouldn't have gained that power if Set hadn't exercised The killed god wouldn't have of resurrection and immortality. Egyptians were fascinated by Set, and they made him the 'Was' sceptre, a staff with a fork-shaped end and a head shaped like the The symbolism of this sceptre where it can be strong and &quot;You explained this complicated You told me that he and that Set was necessary After all of this, how can Actually, Egyptians didn't call The description of the when the original holders of the story and new people appeared and &quot;It must have been the 'Hyksos,' Never forget the Second Can you please be patient, my friend? I wasn't going to, but Maybe the Hyksos did but, to be honest, they worshipped Set because they thought he was At that time, some Egyptians -&quot;Why, Abo Hmeed?&quot; that deterred foreign threat, but he let the Hyksos in. It was clear that either he didn't exist, or he allowed the Hyksos in. You can say that his image was tarnished. When the ruling of the Hyksos ended which was known as 'The they tried to restore Set's image. &quot;Come on, guys! It was just a mistake! He killed the snake Some kings from the 19th and they held statues of him as a The actual shift that happened to Set started when the Greeks At that time, the 'Ptolemaic' who reconfigured the Egyptian The Greeks made a terrible They considered both as a single entity. Since Set was evil and killed gods and Apep wanted nothingness they're a perfect fit. They that looks like the mythical There was a merge between the In fact, Set's disciplines They were accused of killing people and presenting them as Not just that, any person or animal Domhnall Gleeson and Ed Sheeran The belief that those with went on in Europe until the Middle Ages. Even in the local imagination, In the end, Egyptians hated Set because he allowed the I mean, they're right, he the Persians, the Romans, the Arabs, the Ottoman Empire, the French he didn't deter anything. Actually, Set's state When the Romans ruled Egypt later, Set's face wasn't associated with a he was associated with a donkey. &quot;Oh my! A donkey, Abo Hmeed?&quot; Yes, my friend, this was the Roman method Imagine that this happened to The Romans used association to but also anything, to the point that they This happened while Christianity was Even after the Roman Set, or The Red Lord, Now, we can understand and why he became a symbol of the devil Like most idolatry religions, but Christianity knew devils What helped this is that the and Set have similar letters, even though in Etymology, there isn't As the Hebrew word &quot;Satan&quot; and it means an imposter and an enemy. The Arabic word &quot;Shaytan,&quot; in its language bridge, could be than the word Set. The connection between Set and the to the point that, in 1975, a cult they followed what and they performed the After all that nasty past of Set, to the point that it became clean He ended up as the devil in a cult Poor Set! Ancient Egyptian civilization its language was forgotten and its temples For long centuries, whoever walked who inhabited this land, What's left is some engravings on stones, engravings that were Until the symbols of these engravings and we understood Hieroglyphs and re-discovered the The problem is that we we read stories, myths, and papyrus paper and explained them according so Set became a mere It became hard to explain his his very compound, and his necessary presence in a complicated, Unfortunately, Europeans weren't when they discovered the Ancient Even us as current Egyptians, who consider ourselves an extension of we read their myths through foreign eyes and according to our instead of understanding We regard Set as a devil, and, as it's clear in this episode, After this episode, when we look at the of the parade where Set kills Apep, I hope that you can see that it's not just a a drawing but it's a 3D drawing. I hope that you can see as you now know how Just like how Set killed Apep my sweet friend, you can watch Check the sources below and Don't forget to subscribe! -&quot;Can I tell you a joke, Abo Hmeed?&quot; All right, Abo Hmeed. &quot;Do you know why Queen -Why, my friend? &quot;Abo Hmeed, I feel that to pull out the punchline This kind of jokes must be exterminated!&quot;