Markets speculation and risks. This is the co-hosts of the chat with traders podcast. changes in the podcast, you can hear about episode 240 of the chat with trader's podcast. John Carter, who you may remember was on a with Aaron, who was in his earlier podcast that episode, we learned that John was an still an aggressive trader. John has been it to be such an accomplishment in of itself game for that long to say the least, but John's also achieved phenomenal trading we'll learn more about shortly, about some And also we'll learn about his thoughts on things that really appealed to me about John There's a humanistic feel to the way he talks which we don't get to hear often. So naturally as well. There will be articles and videos in the show notes at chat with traders.com/ head on over to our chat with Mr. John Carter. back, I should say to our first episode, before And I know that million-dollar tests that You know, these days, that kind of seems like Well, you know, well, first of all, it's, it's cool to be back on this. And secondly, we did our first call together, you know, 20 and 2021 or incredibly remarkable trading dollar trade for me that we talked about on you know, that was certainly at the time, this mind numbing achievement, like, oh my you know, 2020 rolled around and, and, and was some nice trades, but it was more, you know, the markets were and then 2020 happened. And all of a sudden, in 2020, and then, you know, like maybe four ever. And so it w it, it gets a little surreal. And I do think that there's a challenge. You to, and of course w it, wasn't all easy, right? you know, the challenge in trading is to not winning streak, a lot of times, that's where you're at your biggest danger, you know, I've made it. And I don't, you know, whatever, but the reality of it is, is there together in the market where a big trade like And so part of it is recognizing that, but is not available. So, you know, the worst dollar trade. And of course that's a combination to force that when, you know, the market's Yeah. And, and 2020 was obviously a standout your career. And that's a 30 year career by when you, when the market started to unfold, the 30 years has kind of been preparing me Or were there still a lot of almost doubts going into that? Yeah. Okay. So that's a, think back on it, so first of all, a lot of back on that year in, in, in February, and this just popped up my where we went to this place called the dotta crash course in the Bhagavad Gita. Okay. And It was amazing, but this was all happening And it's like, we kinda took maths on the really sure what was going on. And then of the world goes on lockdown. And so I bring we had a place in the city in Austin, and then we have a, like a kind of a ranch want to spend lockdown down in the city. And out to the ranch in Wimberley, Texas, which this time, while I'm trading, you know, we're trying to get set up. We didn't have funny story is that while we're here, I was we might as well get up in the morning and some zebras and Willdabeast and kudu cause And we didn't know at that point, would we all this is going on, the markets happening not scary at all. I've been through, you know, it didn't have any big trades that month, but made money. And, and frankly, those are spending a lot of time in 2008 in those kinds this kind of market, this is a day trading overnight. You know, this is a get in, get out fast. And so I'd experienced that I mean, is the world coming to an end? Right? to say, I am going to, and it's something I don't, you know, you're not going to you, don't, you have no idea what's going to happen to happen next in order to make money. And that to my trading, but I was also focused you know, there's, hasn't been a pandemic So nobody, almost nobody that's alive had of trading, January, February, March, and they weren't, there was nothing great. There some here and there, but it was, it was great. nice, positive. I think my first down month whatever it didn't come together. But then together and I had like a million dollar trade trade in July. And I think then it was like August, August, and then another, you know, it was of like a Forrest Gump moment where the mindset a combination of aggressiveness and just anything out if it's not working, it played out really run versus like my gosh, I don't know what's gonna happen. I got a to sit through the uncomfortableness night you're in these trades, you know, for a couple not, you know, that's not always something there's times like in this market right now, 22, I hate overnight trades in this market. me, you know, let me try to make some money and take it easy. Okay. Do you think that performance as well? So, you know, okay. So it's a great question. the kudu and the wildebeest and all these it just being able to go, we have a couple like, you know, sectioned off or anything, but I loved going on hikes and just seeing find them. And I think that was a big, important a huge believer in that in, you know, in order the charts all day. And in fact, you know, there's this, you know, there's in the morning and then able to weigh in the impatience builds up as well as dispute decision kind of a pattern of why traders tend to give And so the idea that I wanted to go outside, spend an hour and a half or so, just hiking I think absolutely contributed to that. That's yet some really big trades towards the end These all seem to be in Tesla. And when we Tesla. What is it about Tesla? What are the this particular? I was going to say stock, so it's, what's interesting is that it happened There was also a couple of really good trades, Tesla, you know, it's not about, you know, like trading at all. So it's kind of like, the behavior of the stock, which means it's the behavior of all the collective about Tesla is that so many people hated the have a large amount of people betting against also known as kind of high short interest. to the volatility. And so when you've got a stock like that, that's dedicated itself to its destruction, they don't like Elan. They don't like the None of that stuff really matters to me is know, when Tesla breaks out, not only do you have play, but on top of that, you have shorts that double whammy of buyers pushing it up pushing it up, and it just creates prolonged if you think of like, say the S and P 500, it fizzles, that's great. You don't necessarily but with Tesla, with this combination of a just generally like to trade the stock, you it shows any signs of even wanting to pull And it's just, it's, it's a fantastic opportunity they don't price in a move like that. And to sit through the uncomfortableness of, you much money. What if it goes away and, you just kind of trailing up a mental stop that big trades here, I'd love to double down on year 21, you had your biggest tried to date, to just ask you a few questions around this, or I sorta want to get as many details on the obvious question to start this with is a big trade econ. You used the phrase a few to you. How do you know when these sort of bigger opportunities are actually present that I think what happens is over time, you just start to recognize, and I'll see if I I recognized. So this was in, this was around I've documented this trade outs. I remember up a chart here so I can look at it. So the time is that the market itself was selling It was taking out support, but Google wasn't. everybody was going down, but Google was not. support. It was staying above its 21 period up a squeeze, which was one of my favorite like, this is a unique thing because Google even in, even against the backdrop of a weak NASDAQ, the NASDAQ started forming kind of the daily chart and some intraday charts. it's like, wow, if, if Google was trading imagine what Google will do if the market And, you know, I, that whole scenario that storm where you a, you have a market setting to benefit really well from that. So that my attention. When you use the phrase squeezed there, I but I think you're actually referring to one Yes. So the TTM squeeze or the simpler trading on think or swim and stuff like that. But It's not, you know, it's not a secret sauce, is when the Bollinger bands contract to the Keltner channels. So bones, your bands and channels measures one and a half ATR, which see, or what are the times when the Bollinger bands inside of the Keltner channels. And what that and it had been building up so much energy And so that's what, so when I look for something this thing is winding up, you know, it's coiled is. You know, how you described when the NASDAQ down it's sideways. And that was kind of a of trigger for a lot of your other trades Yes. So no. So, so what I like to look at typically it's the SNPs and the NASDAQ. And like a lot of trades I like to do, or just to do on the indexes. So what I like to look for then is that if a stock that's ignoring that? Is there a stock know, if I'm going to, if I'm going to trade indexes. Otherwise, why not just trade the So, you know, on days when the market's down, up with that day. And then, you know, or same going up, are there some, are there some stocks idea of, are there some stocks out there that you know, kind of a unique story? You know, there's like United healthcare. So United before this year, but in, in this current these huge down moves, the stock just kind to go long something, I want to go long, you know, that stock. So index is there just like this big river and it, I liked to look for stocks that are, you but it's like, you know, either they're surfing the river completely ignoring it. But a lot of times there Just quickly. John, you said the raisin was holding up while the market was selling Like, was there a stronger catalyst at PLI? around the stock that gave you this sort of to know that this was a big tried moment becoming of a technical kind of thing? Well, there I knew, and I knew that earnings were going to come what I found in a situation like this is that, my theory on stuff like this is that for the they're, they've hired all these analysts They're doing things that us as retail traders, going like, okay, the market's been crashing, and Google's acting like the market's not long set up against the backdrop of a weak And so when I see something like that, yeah, it's just kinda like, okay, some, you I say something like that, it's obviously I mean, funds. And so, so when I see all that itself looked great in terms of a technical up when all the other Darlene's were falling with the index. That was a plus. And then sometimes you do kind of get this nice momentum earnings. And so those three things all kind Rima Sylvan years. Well, I dunno, Never hold I'm glad I asked that question. I guess the you realized that this was a big tried becoming for that and how do you begin to put on your it would make sense to ask you how do you For sure. So I am a fan of scaling in for big size, so let's, and say it's a a hundred allocate up to 25 to 30% of that account into a lot of risks in that, right? Cause if it doesn't work, then your account kind of, so I try to structure the options how I structure the options, if Google releases, a hundred points, then you know, it's going But initially I'll start off with say a 5% debit spreads. So typically I'll buy something because the options are so expensive. I tend a slightly out of the money call. It's called And I remember these were a hundred dollars spreads. And I put it on and I don't remember the next day, Google was down 50 points. Now you know, that's, that's nothing that's, that Of course this was before it split just recently. I added another 5% and in this case I added sold some put credit spreads just to kind the next week I was holding onto it and it So at this point I had about a 10% position up my family and leave to Mexico for spring what to do For dramatic pause. Well, that's, here. Like, why did you put this trade on I mean, it just seems like such a big risk. especially with my family is to not have any Yeah. And I follow that very religiously. like if you've been trading for less than you gotta have a set of rules and you never five years, you still want to set a rules, to break the rules and that's obviously you where I was like this, the confidence I have an opportunity like this presents itself, and I need to at least keep a position on world women's spring break, this trade will spring break that'll be ha Yeah. Could either and by the end, during spring break, it was It was, it traded down, it traded down, I was just so the irony is spring break happened still holding it. And, and of course on the 30 and 40 days, 30 or 40 days out. So it wasn't like, you five days. So that'll be in, said I came back I would've stayed flat, I could have come got better prices. So, but that's, you know, you never know, right? Yeah. So that's when I continued legging in. And so more call, debit, spreads, sold some more 25. I think I got to about a 28% position spring break. And it continued to do absolutely nothing. the first moment I got into it on March 10th, 30th. Do you mind just explaining what is So most of the time, so the basic options go up. I'm going to buy a call. And then if Google the call. So of course the thing with options, it. So it's kind of like when you buy an option, you buy a new car, the moment you drive off it starts to appreciating. It's the same thing do a call debit spread is you're buying this day as the premium erodes. But then you sell you think the stock's going to go, assuming that helps to offset. And, and the reason I was able to hold onto I was down, it wasn't horrible because the know, they were kind of kind of neutral. So day on this trade, but it wasn't a lot. The the way I structured the options was that what was back and forth for three and a half during this trial, which Connor confirmed were there any, cause I know you kind of got it broke out. If you will, like once it did which you saw, which kind of confirmed to prices going up. So, yeah. And so as I was, it was trading sideways, you know, the first thing I always just say like, okay, there was no time. It was a setup, not valid. doing anything. And I was, you know, and I've because I really like the set up in no way, shape or form. Does that mean it's going to really going to break down? When I knew I I'd have to probably double check the date. solid rally on volume and it took out all weeks and closed at its highs. And I was like, bam, all right, the show is rallied every day. And there was one day where went from like almost 2000 to, I think, $2,300, no us, That's amazing something I noticed down and you're losing money. You could've just closed out of the position, where you mentioned that you had the confidence with the setup. And I think that's a key thing may lose the confidence. And, you know, with you know, that with the stock going down that fear. And I was just, you know, trying to Yeah. Yeah. So, so first of all, you know, you're certainly second guessing yourself. gosh, you know, you know, is this, but there, I've learned over time is I it's like, I call you got into the trade are still true, there's you don't know when it's going to work. And there's certainly been times when I've like, oh gosh, it's not working the last week. you know, away, away, away. And so I get out when it takes off psychologically, it's actually hard to get back in because and now I feel like I'm chasing. And so you was, is like a, is the tray is the reason no. And the answer was unequivocally. Yes. So there was know nothing had broken down, was coming to the bottom of its range. And like, okay, if I knowing how strong the setup I cut bait and then the stock does in fact to do, I would be doing myself a service by so coming about the idea of being, being comfortable on the facts, you, if you're, if, if the trade in it, that's a whole different, psychological You know, that's like, oh, I'm afraid, you that kind of stuff. But if the reason you you're within the, you know, the risk parameters reason to get out of the trade. Maybe, you know, if you're nervous, you could say just like, well, if the market really tanks, really comes down to that. And, you know, then you just gotta be patient and sit on you know, and, and let it do its thing. And to say that it's, you know, it's funny and hard learning the, manage your internal dialogue is hard. So just coming to wards, the end let's talk about the exit. What triggered I'm going flat locking in my profit. Yeah. so we were talking about call debit spreads these. It was something like, you know, I and then I sold the $2,250 a call. So on a dollars wide. So, so Google went from about or six trading days across, you know, all of things is first when it kind of blew through debit spreads. At that point, there's not potential for additional profit at that time, profit. I mean, the trade would have been but on the other hand, I don't think I would if I would just, if I was just sitting on straight calls, I it's, it's kind of six of one, half a dozen is that in terms of a target, I'm a big fan I'll just put on a 21 period, exponential moving average, and anytime a chart, you know, you just put on a Keltner three ATR. It's very rare that a stock is can go from the 21 EMA to three ATR, 90% of that's all you're going to get. Anyway, it's pull back are really high. So, so the combination ATR level two, it kind of blew through that that I sold. And, you know, at that point, I think, you know, I had gone from being down, that on that particular day it was the day million. I mean, it happened so fast and which that. And, and so what I did is I started Okay. Because those are the ones that were to pull back. So get rid of those. And then debit spreads. I think like later that day spreads that I sold. And, you know, again, that aren't familiar with options, so I would sell the $2,000 put on Google and then buy, a spread with the, the bet being that that's that means I collect the money. So those weren't you don't get a lot for, but what they did on the long calls. So I just let those expire of life left, but it all happened very, very I think doing like a workout that day, and I just had my iPad right in front of me or saying, you know, you know, you know, reversing, like that. So it was a, it was a, yeah, it It was amazing. And, and, and I, and I took off after that, just to kind of, you know, probably a smart move. Were you out before So I never hold through earnings. Yeah. I never, it's just, it's such a, you know, trade, it's more based on, you know, the implied is a whole different trade, but I hope I've holding through earnings. And so I just, I stopped doing that years and years and years has done a really good breakdown of this trade, So I'll pop a link to that in the notes, Given are using options. John, do you think it's trading stocks? Okay. So I don't actually don't think it's stocks if you're doing directions. So if so, as P Y. And if you're trading and it comes you know, at, you know, 390, and it goes up then you know, you made 300 bucks, you could play and lose money. You know, it's like, call it expires today. And it just, the spiders you actually ended up losing money. So I don't think it's a myth at all. I think trading options, but there's a point at which hard to go back to stocks because there's being able to, you know, I think one of my, making bets where something's not going to It's like, wow, I really don't think the stock's like, you know, sell a spread. I would say first because the way I look at options, I, you know, there's the, all the gamma and all that kind of stuff. I was trained directionally. So I trade them if I think something's going to go up, I'm benefit from the stock going up versus, you looking at all the, all the Greeks and trying that would, you know, okay, if gamma expands stuff is good and I'm not, I'm not knocking they religiously do that and they, and they It's just that my background was directional. movement in the stock. Could you have had the Google trade that you did with just purely have had similar a similar performance outcome I would have caught the same trade and I would So that, that would be the difference just two, a $2,000 stock, right? So let's say I Okay. A thousand shares. That's a two point, And the stock goes from 2000 to 2000, 250. it's the same move. It's just that with options, buck. So I could trade, you know, so where, the equivalent of a thousand shares of Google, you know, with the options, I was trading And so when it really goes, it's, you know, mean, options. It's, it's amazing. It's obviously and so many strategies, you know, to someone who's not familiar, it could be I think for those who, you know, don't understand recommend learning about it at least in order how to trade stocks first. Yeah, I think so And here's the thing with options. If there's on options is going to over-complicate them a lot of people out there that are very smart, And so that doesn't mean that what they're Right. And so double diagonals, you know, up some names in that case, but there's a to go down that path, you can, but if you want to utilize some option strategies that three things you need to learn. So in an up So typically for me, I want to buy an in the 30 days, at least two expirations, you don't do a call debit spread, or you could sell a put credit spread and I can buy a, put, I can buy a, put debit spread, it. And once you just learn that, the nice option strategy is just a combination of those So I like to keep it pretty simple. That's It's very rare that I do other types of options, like, okay, what's it like to buy a call? and sell? I'll put credit spread. Great. You're you're good. Once you got those another thing, you mentioned two jobs, or to your equity curve, an upward sloping equity to the upper. Right. And also to, to kill it sounds so simple, but so hard to do, You takes over. So, and I've, I've looked at this of like, you know, looking back at times when and there, and this is, this could be a much longer discussion. So as possible, but there is something in us in uncomfortable situations and this carries we all had different childhoods. You know, but as a child, we have to learn how to navigate, the survival skills that we learn to navigate not serve us at all as an adult. And, and what happens is that these same essentially childhood, they literally take over. And so anytime if freezing and we're not following our plan, way to avoid that, and the way around it is do like a five minute meditation where you're kind of dissolve all that. And then just get back to being objective And yeah, it's, it sucks that I'm taking a these bad feelings about it, but the moment better because now you're back to neutral. drill this into me. And he's like, okay, John, a thousand dollar loss on paper versus a thousand thousand dollar losses on paper, you have at me. He was like, no, there's no damn difference if it's not you know, there's a chance I can come back a new opportunity where you could actually to all the psychological baggage of trying And it's just kind of like the, you know, small losses are good, you know, and if you're wrong and just take it and there's no emotion we learn to analyze stuff. And so if something's we start to question, well, geez, is our analysis is a probabilities game. So it there's a lot is that we, you know, we do want to be mindful mindful and not kind of let our survival strategies essentially take over our body, you know, like that, that's kinda how we react. It helps the day, but it's, you know, it's real. And in trading than anything else. Yeah. I love your, your holistic approach to trading. we, as traders probably don't spend as much trading successes, 80% of 80% psychology, if so, why does it seem like, why does it the same amount of time and devotion to focus you know, to help the mindset for trading? because in the, when I started off, of course, find the right indicator. I need to find the to kind of teaching stuff, is that I could show someone the exact same on it totally differently based on their psychology. this the way around it, of course, is that like you just program it, you have your computer Then you don't have psychological problems. I like to trade discretionarily for whatever get clear on what I simply call a high probability you've got a checklist, like, okay, when these I'll go along. And when these three things here's my criteria for knowing that it's not to the extent I'm following that. And I'm in trouble? Is that one time when we see some fear of missing out and we just chase it, And at that point, then psychology does take well planned and well thought out, but we Like we kind of freeze. So that's where the because if we did, to the extent that we are our psychology is an issue. And, you know, you and it's through your stop and you spend, to do instead of just gaining out, that's that's a thousand percent psychology. And get our arms wrapped around is that when we've And it's, it's always going to be there. But the extent we can also overcome it. So it's we trade is, is a reflection of, of who we are and how Or is that too extreme? How I interpreted add, I would add something to that. There's we want. We get who we are, which is brutal. Right. And, but to an extent we were getting and managing is a lot of what's dive deep into this, but it's more unconsciously. us mad? Why does something put us into fear? A lot of times we don't know. It's just that of the time, at least from the research I've it's all, you know, hardwired survival skills they think they're still helping us, but they're And, you know, there's, you have to be careful if you go to a Tony Robbins, you know, talk And it will happen. Well, if just because going to be a winning trade, does not in any shape or form mean it's going to be a winning thing you can do, but I think in trading, positive, that trading is a skill that you next trade you're going to do is going to And so then what happens is you start focusing yeah, it's a really fascinating thing. I do best psychologist in the world. You know, you being a slave to your emotions and survival and how to approach the market for the remainder kind of like, I used to day trade, you know, I was primarily a day trader. And, and that full time. And I just, you know, it was fun. And then, find something that you like put a position And this current market that we're in, I hate so many things that could, that can go wrong and I'm back, you know, current market, I really, really, really like day now. So, you know, you can do things like that too. But I would say that the biggest 20, 20 and 2021, the ground was there for the indexes. And within that we had strong stocks. let's see if we can find the next big trade. and a half percent a week. So, you know, with a combination of, you know, option strategies know, not taking a ton of risk two and a half but the end of the year, that's, you know, something like 300% over the course of a year. And it doesn't mean it's going to work every for risks and stuff like that. And so I would in is that it's a, it's a markets that's designed long side and the short side, it's going to destroy both their dreams. So mate, you know, if you're going to hold a a day or two, but it's just understanding to find its own footing. You know, it's like, You know is the fed going to crush the economy And so there's a lot of back and forth. It's flow into. It is more of a, you know, for not a, not a buy and hold market. I love how you highlighted that this market trading rather than swing trading. And then between the two, I guess, you know, that's you in the game for so long, right? Yeah. you know, in, in, in trading, like you learn I figured out this was a good day trading is not working, so it's not, you know, it's okay, today's the day we start day trading, you know, but it is paying attention and I my trades. And if it's something like, man, to garbage and you know, and I, and I've done it's not necessarily me being a bad trader, the markets and that market is no longer there, you know, the market has changed and I just you know, the easiest sign that the market that you're doing is not working. And then here? And, you know, and just diving into John, just one last question here, and then before Warren out two and a half percent each in that article. You wrote a, and that was absolutely link to in the show notes because very thorough raid. I don't know how long when you are at you, your funds, a certain it to tangible assets. Can you give an example be? Sure. And for me, and it's, it could be but it's for me. So a tangible asset as serves but one, you know, you are essentially taking putting it into something that's a little example would be real estate. You know, the putting in a down payment, on a rental property, and things like that too, or whatever it is, out of the markets and, you know, just putting bullying, even though bullying, isn't really that exciting, you know, it's really move rare coins. I I've collected rare like that, that I think are kind of fun. So for that too, is that we're all going to have So let's say that, you know, you have an account dollars. It's amazing. And then you just get the markets or whatever happens. And it goes disheartening. However, if during that time real estate and gold and silver and rare coins If you do have a nasty draw down, it's like, profits into tangible assets. And then the tangible asset like real estate or, you know, sell. Like you, can't on a, you know, the danger of a market is you can do, you to buy that. But if you want to say, man, and sell your real estate. You know, it's, agent. You need to go clean it. And the fact that you have to do all that from selling it. So it helps keep you, it, you know, not necessarily easy to get rid thing for traders, just in the markets. We, we can do so much with a right click of a games into tangible assets, it's a way to For sure. So our next episode will be titled how to, how to raise zebras, to increase the Lock it, unlock it. All right, John, we're your evening. Thank you very much for coming with you again, and I'm sure Tessa enjoyed your brain. Yeah. And it was great. No, thanks. Erin is going to talk to you again great questions and always a good conversation. to find out more about you, John, where's So I'm on Twitter. I'm just at John F. Carter of course our, our site is simpler trading of trading services on there. The one that room. And so that's where I do, you know, that and answering questions and people were you know, why are you still holding onto this? whole thing. So that's right. But that's where pop links to that in the show notes until do. Thanks again. You've reached the end of this episode of are more episodes loaded with real market to stay updated with each great new release, love it. If you leave a rating and review,