The Nephilim were there on earth. These mysterious ancient beings - human DNA - how did they return after the flood? Those who overstepped their boundaries slept They were not allowed to They were chained up because of their sexual sin. The Nephilim also means the Mighty Then when God saved him - brought him out of Who did they see? This raises the question - how is it possible Hey guys, welcome back to DLM Lifestyle. Religions Started, and I mentioned some of you in the comment section down So some said how is it possible that the they return after the flood when everything was family and the animals on the ark? intriguing mysteries of the Bible, of Scripture. mixed breeds of fallen angel and human DNA, how says that all flesh were destroyed except except the fish as well in all the water now right? We got to break it down and We need to start with what the of you who are here for the very first time. Now just some context here - And the Nephilim is a Hebrew It also means giants or Mighty Men of Old. After the flood - when the sons of God - I just it already talked about humankind. The Book of Job also talks about They're also called the stars in Job When the sons of God came into the daughters These were the Mighty Men who were of Old. So this is what I meant earlier by saying the So the Bible is very clear. before the flood and also after the flood. they were there after the flood? contradicts itself because it says that all flood - except for Noah and his family and know all the fish were probably alive as well Genesis 7: 21-23 says: And all flesh died that moved on the earth. Birds, livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures Everything on the dry land in whose That is clear. Verse 23 says: He blotted out every living thing Man and animals and creeping They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left and those But then as you continue to read the Bible spread over the face of the earth and then forth and then of course they were slaves brought them out of slavery to Who did they see? Numbers 13:32: The land through which we have gone to spy it And all the people that we That's why many of these Nephilim are see giants in the Old Testament after the Verse 33: And there we saw the Nephilim, the sons So even in this time there were many of Tribes of them. This tribe was the tribe from Anak, the and we seemed to ourselves like So the Bible is very clear. and also after the flood. If you study your Bible you would know it as well. Sometimes you know it's easy to skip over it about the genealogies and everything and make some time to study up on it. it's new, the Genesis 6 Conspiracy, Part Giants Helps Define End Time Prophecy. the tribes - different tribes in the But this raises the question - how is it Well there's a few theories. One theory suggests that the Nephilim reemerged humanity after the flood just like before. some believe it's possible that these rebellious Nephilim in the post flood world. Remember the Bible doesn't mention everything could not contain all the books right? history or archaeology - it is a book about Jesus. is about truth, the whole world will not be able That's actually what the Bible says about Jesus actually about Him - just think about about it. all the books that would be written. different group of fallen angels, that started to those fallen angels in Genesis - before the flood with the women on earth to create the Nephilim. How were they judged? They were not allowed to They were chained up because of their sexual sin. And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority but Now I just want to stop here because you need to than just this physical realm right? There's a spiritual realm that influences angels rebelled, they came down to earth. We can't see them right? There's certain things they cannot do us and just kill us because they hate us and do it because God is stopping them. watching you - you just can't see them. Enoch called them the Watchers. These specific group of angels overstepped earth - sexual sin created the Nephilim . And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority but left eternal chains under gloomy darkness This is interesting because this is This specific group of fallen angels. Verse 7: Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding immorality. Fallen angels, likewise Sodom and Gomorrah, This is what this is talking about. If we read the Old Testament, we also we also understand this period where there Jude says here which likewise indulged unnatural desire serve as an example by Another theory is that the Nephilim DNA - it came say that Noah was righteous - we know that - but We don't know anything about them. We only read about their descendants with but nothing about them. We also know, for example, that the especially when we look at Nimrod, who Described as a mighty man. Remember the Nephilim were They were also called The Mighty Men of called the first Mighty Man after the flood. world leader after the flood. he also rebelled against God. he really is a Nephilim. A lot of people say he is. a giant of a man, maybe a gibborim. the mixed breeds of fallen angel Gibborim the Hebrew word is more for a strong man. The Bible says in Genesis 10:8. Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on the earth to be a Mighty Man. Therefore it is said like Nimrod, the beginning of his kingdom was Babel. Now remember I've said this in the new origins of all religions, that the Bible from Shem Shemmer Sumer Shinar. the Bible including Genesis and with his Egypt with the Pharaoh they called Sumer Shinar. through the wives of Ham, Shem and Japheth. If this is true - because when we look the Canaanites - the Philistines - and I've just read for you what the Israelites said They felt like grasshoppers to those the sons of Anak and everybody by now knows the giant and this came many years later. diluted by then. Goliath had brothers - other giants - then Deuteronomy 3:11: All the cities of the table land far as as far as Salecah and Edrei, for only Og the king of Bashan was Remnant of of the Rephaim. Behold his bed was a bed of iron. Nine cubits was its length and four cubits Now if you wonder how big this So I come from South Africa. Now I'm here in America and So let me do both. 13.5 feet which is 4.11 meters long. That is twice the size of the biggest bed Now, there's also another theory after the flood which I don't really agree with. hanging on to the ark or they created other boats. because the Bible says no flesh survived. thinking man, there was no flood and please, and be open just to learn a little bit more. most people don't know about the flood. Over 4,000 years ago there was a flood. that there was a flood like the Yonaguni Monument. Jinsha River in China. Lake Titicaka. The Chatata Wall in Cleveland. present day India and Pakistan. the story of Gilgamesh. found in a Black Sea just 12 miles off D. Ballard, the same man who found the Titanic. Now whatever the case, whatever theory you go there before the flood and also after the flood. Christians - we don't just go with our We listen to what the Bible says. because it is God's Word right? that a lot of you might have because a lot of Let's say the giants. The Bible says so. didn't come from fallen angels. because that's what Genesis 6 says. it and then you might say well no because They cannot have children. Or are you interpreting it to say that? you evidence that the Bible says Please check it out in this video here. Please let me know in the I'd love to talk to you and then before So please don't waste yours.