We have talked a lot on this channel about how to do well academically. How to study effectively, how to ace your tests and how to crush those even when you have barely But of course, successful students don't they do well all around. So, that begs the question, what separates truly successful students, who have it all together in all areas of their lives, from everyone else? Well that's what I wanna and today we're gonna cover eight habits of successful students and yes, this is definitely a riff off of Stephen Covey's excellent book, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, which I have read and loved. But these eight habits are unique. These come from my own observations of people that I know who are successful and things I've tried to and I think every single one of them is gonna help you in So lets dive right in. (upbeat music) To start things off, successful students are forward thinkers. J.R. Tolken wrote in, The Hobbit that, &quot;It does not do to leave a live dragon if you live near him.&quot; And as a student, you have a lot of live Not just on the academic side of things but on all fronts. You've got your career plans. You've got relationships. You have your living situation, errands you need to run, there is a lot to keep track of. And when I was in college, I had a lot of friends who to get these things They were basically letting but if you can build a this isn't going to happen to you. And you'll also position that would pass others by. So if you're not already if you're not automatically that are coming up in the near future, how do you become one? Well I definitely think it is possible, because I didn't use to be one but now I am. When I was a kid, I remember my mom would just like look up from whatever she was doing, oftentimes and ask me, hey Thomas, have you And I remember thinking, like, how do you think of stuff like that? I wasn't talking about brushing my teeth, you weren't brushing your teeth, it just popped into your mind. And eventually I realized it was because she cared about the health of her sons and she was simply being mindful about it. And I worked to become that So if you're like I was back then, you don't already have this the first step is to build some structures into your everyday routines, that remind you to think in One good way to start doing this, is to create a reminder on your task management to sit down once a week and think, what do I have Do I need to sign up for classes? Well then I should make a that the class scheduler opens so I can get in there and get my classes before Or do I need to get an apartment soon? If you live in a college town like I did, then it's likely that is gonna have their leases start And because of that, everyone's gonna be signing leases all in one big drove. So, do yours early, otherwise, come next semester, you're gonna be living in And while you're going also think about your relationships, maybe you have somebody who or you have a friend that you I find that when you actually and when you apple a to your relationships, you tend to maintain them better. And this is important, because as people get older, they start to get busier and they start to have and it's only people who are their relationships (upbeat music) The second habit is deliberately move towards adulthood. They don't let adulthood sneak up on them. And by that, I'm not talking about becoming and tells kids to get out their lawn but every human is going to and challenges they need to face at some point in their lives. And a lot of people try as much as they possibly can. But if you can become the kind of person who is willing to take I'm talking about things like doing your own taxes, your filling out your or like, learning how to iron shirt or do your own laundry. Then once you have to do those things, you've already got that base (upbeat music) Habit number three, successful students strive to become, what I like to call, solution finders. They're the kind of people, that when faced with a tough problem, that doesn't have an they are willing to push through and figure out how to solve it. And sadly, a lot of A friend of mine named at a pretty big company and this company values this so much that they have a rule for people who get stuck on problems. They call it the 15-Minute Rule. Essentially, if an employee they have to spend 15 more minutes, working on that problem before they're allowed to ask for help. And during that time, they have to document everything they do and write down what didn't work so that way when they do ask for help, they're able to give context to the person who's helping them. Additionally, once they they must ask for help. And this rule creates a nice balance. It makes them be independent and solve problems on their own but also ensures that that they never ask for help and that ensures that they're not wasting And adopting this rule actually proved very because if you're willing to you're going to solve a lot of them that you would've and if you do have to ask for help, you're going to show your teacher that you take the problems seriously and that you're not the moment things get tough. (upbeat music) Habit number four is to start actively with your teachers, with your professors and with other faculty members When you do this, you start to build a network of people who aren't just in your or at your same level of progression. And it also has a couple of Number one, these people are gonna be able to tell you about opportunities that you and if you ever happen to need for a job application or a scholarship, those are gonna be the because now they know and they're gonna be willing to do it. And you probably shouldn't from your roommate Jimmy. So, how do you start Well a great first step comes at the beginning of a new semester. Go up to the teacher at introduce yourself briefly, shake their hand and just tell them you're That makes a really Additionally in your free time, if you happen to come that you think one of your professors would be interested in, email them that article. Just say hey, I read this I remember back in 2011, I was taking my first and this was right around the time that Val was getting ready and they did something really weird with the marketing for Portal Two. They had this weird, where people could buy games on the steam and play lots and lots and that would all contribute release a couple of days early. So essentially, they found a way to let all these other games that weren't selling all that well, ride the coat tails of and I thought that was a So I found an article about it, I sent it to my marketing professor and said, hey I think and the next week he actually So doing that definitely helped (upbeat music) The fifth habit is that are always trying to They're trying to learn from and they are branching that aren't on their narrow major path. And I think this is Because once you start getting interested in a variety of different subjects and you start dabbling in different areas, you start to build this diverse web of connections in your brain, that allows you to be more Plus when you take just to branch out from your major path. You might stumble onto something that actually proves to be a huge boon to your future career prospects. One great example is He's always been really but he majored in MIS in college but that didn't stop all about how to learn new languages and that actually got him some recognition in the language learning community. He was actually on a list of language learning Not to mention, the experience actually lead directly at a web development agency in our city right after graduating, who usually didn't like Because he had a lot of experience that most people didn't have. (upbeat music) Habit number six is to to the ground for opportunities. Here's the thing, when your in school or especially when your there are a ton of But you have to be and to know where to look. One great thing to do is to be keeping your eye around your campus or in your school because a lot of opportunities are gonna be posted as fliers Additionally, follow your And I'm not just talkin about Follow your professors and your teachers. Follow departments that you're a part of. Because a lot of these departments and professors, they're that they think their students And this habit is to how I got my first internship, because I was following my and they posted a tweet about that was putting on this So I saw the tweet, I and at that event I met a mentor who was instrumental in getting (upbeat music) The seventh habit is that successful students put a lot of effort both physically and mentally fit. When you're a student whose ambitious, there's often this general mindset that you should be spending or pursuing opportunities and when a lot of students do this, they often let their nutrition habits, their exercise habits, and their sleep go by the wayside. And what's worse, they'll often where they mentally burn out or they become depressed And the sad things is, when they're letting their go by the way side, they in the things that they really and truly successful students know this, which is why they make time for exercise. They make time for or getting them at the dining center and they also get enough And one little side note successful students are if they need it. If they're dealing with mental burn out or anxiety or depression. They will go ask a professional if they can't deal with (upbeat music) And that brings us to the Successful students try things before they think they're ready. I wanna underline this idea with something that Neil in his book, The Happiness Equation. In the book, he talks about how people generally approach new and how they do it in a linear way. They feel like they have and then they'll want to do it and finally they'll do it. But when you think this way, you never actually get to do the thing, because you never gained the skills to do it in the first place. So, Neil encourages you and make it circular. Do, which leads to can do, because you're gaining That leads to want to do and the circle repeats Plus you're often much more qualified than you think you are. A lot of students and a deal with Imposter Syndrome, they think, who am I to do this, I don't have a certification. I don't have a qualification. But in many cases, you don't need it. I'll give ya an example. When I was a freshman in college, I really wanted to join a club on campus called, Business Council. These were basically like the leaders of the business school at the university but they had a rule, they only let people in who Very rarely would they make So what did I think? I didn't think, I'm just gonna wait. I'm just gonna you know, I thought, I'm going to apply because what's the worst They're gonna reject me and I'll try again next semester. So I applied, I put my best foot forward and I got accepted. And what's more, during my first semester as a member, I also got elected to So if something seems exciting to you, but it also seems a little scary, try it anyway because that is what That brings us to the end of my list but if you have additional ideas or habits you think I left off of it, I would love to hear from you guys in the comments down below. So definitely let me If you like this video, if you found it helpful, definitely give it a like If you're not subscribed yet, you can subscribe right there to get new videos every single week and you can also get on how to earn better grades right there. You can check out our latest were we go over ten of or if you'd like another click right there or or whatever, it'll probably work, especially if you're using a phone and I will see you guys next week.