This is tominecon.7z, and for 12 years, Minecraft reveal its secrets. Last year, the password I thought that was the end of it. But since then, Minecraft's greatest mystery was just solved. was found last year, how was the mystery just history of tominecon is pretty crazy, so let's in February 2012 by MrArroyo on MinecraftForum, file about Minecon locked behind a password? Who off and on, players tried their absolute best to out of nowhere, a man called DannyDorito swooped and for all: "thespicemustflow". So, you'd think little detail I left out. Back in August 2012 people were trying to break into the file, so they for a full decade. Now that the decoy was cracked that's where the last video left off. A desperate which is insane, for any info that could lead just 9 days later, that's exactly what we got. he was around on a website called HackForums. but it spread around the internet pretty quickly, on HackForums filled with attempts to crack the point, Lim here made his way onto the thread, and eventually gave up like everyone else. he found my video. Maybe it was shared with him, who knows. But after all that time, he had still So, he found his old HackForums folder, dusted The moment he found it, he hopped into my Discord and that was that. The original tominecon.7z cracking the decoy, took 10 years. Stage 2, we stepped into stage 3, cracking the original, a very real chance we'd have the case closed that lucky. February passed by with no progress. and eventually it had been a full year with no have been stuck, just inches away from the finish used a pretty easy password for the decoy and that chasing this code until the sun explodes! So, have gotten into the real thing, but at least we I was satisfied. But someone else was not. because he's a Youtuber that's made a lot and other creepy stories from around the internet, it. So, 2 weeks ago, I was very surprised apparently mentioned me in a video, which was did his own deep dive into tominecon.7z and exactly what we needed. Before now, everyone that so there was no one pushing the hunt forward. But for tominecon - and one of them was Dinnerbone story of tominecon. So, with all credits to again - and you should definitely check out his talk about tominecon.7z and what's inside it. the password itself - that was one of his rules - contents and its creation, including an answer why? Why make tominecon, why upload it publicly, which had already been out for months by the to cover here, so let's go one by one: Why was according to Dinnerbone, tominecon.7z was, in and Dinnerbone have now all confirmed that, and if they're wrong, I don't know who could possibly version of 1.0 -Dinnerbone was nice enough to here matches up with the official 1.0 files up different - but we'll get back to that later. For 1.0, and it was brought to Minecon 2011 by a few it to update Bukkit live during the Bukkit panel. public? Honestly, it seems like Dinnerbone He doesn't know who made it, who uploaded it, just and accidentally uploaded it to a public list of own up to it after 13 years, so... that's that, I I've really been curious about: why make a decoy? all said that the file was just Minecraft 1.0, Dinnerbone explains exactly why the decoy was "We don't care about the contents, at all. The as it was reused for something else at the time. anything important, but that's how things are." from the start, its password was actually private Nowadays, the password is completely harmless, going to give it out, partially because that's no a right to the password, harmless or not. BUT, just from encouraging them to try and hack even after this interview, players were still even a dedicated Discord server for the search for them that would come out on top. Instead, out of and cracked the password. His name is Doge. If you might know Doge. Way back in 2020 and 2021, accounts, because he's owned hundreds of them. But and was just living his life until a few days ago. the last few weeks, he decided to pop his head where the capes were originally found, and noticed called tominecon. A locked Minecraft file that was Doge just so happens to crack passwords as a old leaked passwords from Mojang.com: and all it mystery. It turns out, tominecon.7z was actually address: boxpig41. The password was changed over but tominecon.7z was made in 2011 and it we've cracked tominecon.7z. Here it is. and that's what we have here. Like I mentioned out - we've got the 1.0 server files, a Minecraft installers, and a batch file that would launch things get a little funky. As far as Minecraft 1.0 for Minecraft.jar. And if you do a little digging, 1.0 and Tominecon 1.0: the number 16. Just 4 extra but they're more important than you might think, in the code deals with the server ID, which is favorite Minecraft server. But in tominecon.7z, interprets the server ID as decimal, which looks like this. Now, that's a problem. The server files and that's what every other version of Minecraft decimal? Well, it could error, or it could cut the way, that would break the encryption between between you is open to be stolen. That could mean data and a whole lot more you don't want exposed instead of risking a total catastrophe, Minecraft Minecraft 1.0 fixed, and that's why tominecon.7z cause complete and utter chaos... and isn't that file, one of literally millions of Minecraft goofballs have spent over a decade trying to crack and cracking that one - not to mention all the thousands of viewers like you that joined the hunt. But now that we have... man, it feels good. and we couldn't have done it without you. Thanks