Between 2016 and 2023, coffee - which includes iced coffee drinks - more than Hot coffee, on the other Lots of ice is key, we want it You know I see an iced coffee being they're shaking their ice I want an iced coffee now. Like, it truly works. You can see that iced coffee advertising for chains like The company told CNBC that iced drinks by 50%, and they its total beverage sales. It can be ten degrees and snow will be people who will be coffees as they walk to work. And that was not the case So why do Americans love beverage over ice? And will cold brew and iced Americans spent nearly $88 purchases in 2023. Vanilla latte? About 20% of But tracking at-home cold hard. A lot of people are taking putting it in, you know, a letting it brew overnight, And how on earth do you track And the answer is, you can't. Sales at coffeehouse chains picture. Starbucks controls Coffee and Snack shop market. The way it usually works in is that, coffee trends start all, at the big chains like So, the way to look at it is, pushing the cold beverages? That's about when cold brews restaurant menus. And then is thought to be like in the in turn shapes things like patterns. From 2013 to 2021, Starbucks cold beverage sales grew from drinks sold. It's important to note that drinks as well. For Dutch Bros, a West drinks account for about 90% About half of that is cold The rise of caffeinated drinks may help explain the Americans love of soft drinks So, the view is, how can we In the U.S., ready to drink cold, and consumption is up 2023. That is much higher Even without Japan, who total market and data. When you look at the big tastes, but they also reflect And so I think there's a there, right where consumers cold beverages. That's driven largely by Gen The skew is pretty clear that cold coffees, iced cold brew, The divide between iced versus generational. Americans age consumers of cold coffee. A survey found that about within the past day. The second largest was respondents aged 25 to And there was a big drop off boomers. They'll drink cold They'll drink some cases, it's really more like a out. Whereas the millennials broke free of that key difference, is that they rather than a seasonal thing. As a Gen Z coffee drinker for an iced coffee. And for lasts longer than a hot If I'm at the office, I want desk and sip on for a few I think there's definitely There is less cravings for generations. Since coffee has as this hot beverage, I think that mindset with a their lifetime, it has just A 2023 Mintel report found teens consume cold coffee, One reason behind its generations is because it's It's highly customizable, and and toppings that help divert of coffee. Increasingly, that younger asking for a very plain cup They want a coffee based more to it, and I think marketing and promotions. Thank you. Enjoy, have a nice day. The clear plastic cups comes in lends itself very media. These new drinks are a collaboration, so you can see actually green, and as you the drink. There's some like, All of these colors and possible if it were a hot younger Americans view cold beverage, companies like dip in the winter months. One of the reasons Europe coffee, is because of, I they're still largely driven especially in northern Americans as coffee drinkers, right? They don't have a very you'd find in a place like a There's that long historical how we make coffee. much more into trying new right now spreading around brew, like nitro. They're Many coffee makers like jumping on the iced coffee Nespresso released a ready to first time this summer, and machine that brews hot and ice coffee. Still, cold brew and iced before catching up to their Hot coffee is still by far consume coffee. Though a big part of our that more and more operators are going to add And so our expectations are cold coffee category over the