- [Narrator] At the top you'll see this. That's because even though the bill may have come from the Treasury, the Federal reserve is who - They're the ones that's charged in circulation in our economy. - [Narrator] In other words, - Money printer go brr, right? That was a popular meme was creating money outta thin air. - [Narrator] The Federal in charge of the US economy. As a former chairman once said, &quot;They're the economy the punch bowl removed just when the party was really warming up.&quot; Which means they know their decisions, like raising interest rates, - The Fed is just this poorly understood and really important It's important for people to know what's going on in the economy. They should understand why it does what it does, and what role it plays in the country. - [Narrator] So let's explain. How did the Fed get put The Fed, as we know, it after responses to financial crises gave it more and more responsibility. So let's start with in the first place. In the early 1900s, bank If a bank, a private business that meant everyone lost their deposits. Fearful, people would to withdraw their money. Only banks didn't keep so they'd fail, causing to their bank. And back then there was to get more cash to stop these runs. After a large run in 1907, wealthy bankers like JP to essentially bail them out. - After that panic in 1907, business and political maybe this isn't the best to rely on a few wealthy in a time of crisis. And so discussions began or what became the Federal Reserve System. - [Narrator] In 1913, the the United States Central Banking System. Basically a bank for banks. It's 12 separate Federal all across the country. - You had a lot of distrust over having one bank. The idea was that it So, you could go to different and say, well, the power It won't be in Washington, it'll be here. There'll be a bank in Atlanta. There'll be a bank in Kansas City. There'll be a bank in San - [Narrator] And two in Missouri. - There was a senator from in creating the Federal Reserve System. And lo and behold, there's a Fed Bank in St. Louis and in Kansas City. - [Narrator] The idea was different regions of the country, and would independently and interest rates on the money There was also a president Then, the Great Depression hit. It's widely agreed by historians that the Federal Reserve Banks in action and them keeping the circulation of money and lending too tight, And by widely agreed, a Fed governor said, &quot;We did it.&quot; - There were concerns even that the political compromise to create this thing had created too much decentralized power. Nobody really was in charge. - [Narrator] So in 1935, Congress put the Washington based Board It would be a group of seven people from different parts of the each nominated by the President just like a Supreme Court Justice. They oversee the Federal They also serve on the the FOMC, which also includes one from New York and four that rotate. This is the group of and decide things like interest rates. - When you talk about a Fed meeting, you're talking about The terms become interchangeable, because there are certain There are certain things and they all kind of blend together. - [Narrator] So that's how we got to the basic foundation of the Fed. But the Fed as we know it today, with its many responsibilities, was built from responses to Let's start with inflation in the 70s, and in 1978, when Congress gave the Fed, or really the FOMC, two main priorities. - The Fed was given a dual and maximum employment. Now sometimes those goals When you're trying to crush inflation, sometimes you're gonna do to go up, but the mandate really said the Fed should take both of when they set policy. - [Narrator] This was because in the 70s, inflation was really high. Called the Great Inflation and bad policies saw inflation - There were concerns to political pressure in the early 1970s because the Fed chair at was friendly with the president to raise interest rates So the whole experience reinforced this idea that we should have politically independent central banking that generally, when you kept politics out of the FOMC boardroom, you - [Narrator] In 1979, put Paul Volcker in charge of the Fed, and he raised interest rates, Unemployment skyrocketed and people blamed the Fed. - Home builders would mail two by fours to the Fed and say, &quot;Stop these They would mail keys for cars &quot;These are homes and cars There were were tractors that protested, driving around at the Fed's headquarters. History has vindicated the He's lionized today as this that was really hard and really unpopular. But if you look at the US economy over the 30 years that followed, the US economy performed better than most other advanced economies. - [Narrator] The Fed gained credibility because it was politically independent, since politics don't always And when the 2008 the Fed Chairman, Ben Bernanke, learned from lessons of the past. - The bold measures the to the recent financial its determination to avoid repeating the same sorts of mistakes the Great Depression of the 1930s. - [Narrator] Those bold the Fed had never done before, to near zero for the first time. In addition to managing the currency and circulation and the it started loaning money, a It also got into new markets, buying things like mortgage securities, all this to pump money into the economy. This got the Fed even of the financial system, beyond just currency and interest rates. - One of the things Bernanke was that he just threw to see what would stick. He made sure that it didn't get worse. We call it the Great Recession and not the second Great Depression. - [Narrator] And Congress of oversight and regulation through Dodd-Frank, and just - Government spending retreated And so there was this saying the only game in town. If you needed to stimulate your economy, you weren't gonna be able to because Congress didn't wanna do that. What ended up happening to a greater and greater degree, and every utterance of the Fed chair, because now monetary policy to the markets, and also to the economic - [Narrator] Then came COVID. The Fed took from the It bought those same assets. It began loaning more money and it raised the amount of - What you see is a central of severe stress, really, is willing to do quite a lot to make sure that the economy and the - [Narrator] Including - Today, in support of these goals, the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by one quarter percentage point. - [Narrator] The Federal to a financial crisis, and has only grown with each one since. Although, not always without criticism. - The time has come, let's end the Fed. - [Narrator] The Fed is but it has also become the stop gap for most other parts of They can make decisions quickly and without political fallout. - To the extent you have a making huge decisions about the economy. It's something that Congress our elected leaders, have to really outsource this to the Fed. - [Narrator] Basically, to rely on the chaperone. (gentle music)