Transcriber: Mohammed Basheer Today I want to talk with you that many people have been talking And that subject is called &quot;success.&quot; Success means different things but what is success might mean to me And what it may mean to you, is different than what it means who is just trying to get a star Or perhaps to a housewife, who has been trying Or maybe even a corporate executive who's been working for his and only wants to become As you could tell, we have so many different definitions but the greatest definition &quot;Success is all about self-expression.&quot; It's about being who you want to be, doing what you want to do, going where you want to go. Because when it comes to your life, you are the boss, and you have a choice. In fact, you are who you are today because of all the choices But as we are growing up who try to tell us our parents, our teachers, our bosses, They try to tell us how to live our lives, what we should do, where we should go, how we should walk, how we should talk. But my question for you is this, &quot;If you're trying to be then who will be you?&quot; So the key to success is to stop and start performing Is to believe in yourself. Is to know that what you want as long as you believe it. You see, you have to have faith, and faith is knowing that what you want as long as you believe it. And if you feed your faith, you will find often times because if you believe in yourself, everyone else in the world Fortunately, for a long time, Actually, I used to be the kind of person that mothers would often and fathers would tell their sons, &quot;If you keep doing you are going to end up They had some credence because as you can imagine, your reputation really is I really didn't have a good reputation, because I was living I was actually living By the age of 21, I got fired from more jobs In high school, the last guy; well, he was in jail. I was on drugs for eight years, I was broke, busted, and disgusted, and I knew that I wanted to change; the only problem was I didn't know how. Can I see a show of hands where you wanted to change, Well, we all have been there, maybe we are there right now. I discovered there are only three ways Three ideas I wanted that can absolutely revolutionize I know these steps work By the age of 24, I have been able to write three books I now reach millions I believe that these three key principles no matter how do you define success whether you want to live to age 100 or just have a house on the mountaintop These three key principles will help you The first one is to read more books. All the books in the world can help us But the truth is that we don't have because we don't have but we do have to read the books So, for instance, if you wanted you better be reading books Or if you wanted to learn or to become a better communicator, What I am saying basically, is there are libraries that are paved Books are the tools And leaders are readers. If you want to succeed, Most people in the world that book, I would suppose, And before people even get up before they drink their coffee But the truth is that if you study you get miscellaneous results; you become what you study. What do you study, A lot of people come up to me, &quot;Daniel, I don't really have time to read. I already have so many textbooks, But if you don't have 10 minutes a day, you're basically saying We all have time to read, we all have time to pick up a good book and read for ourselves Look! If you read 10 minutes a day, that is one book a month. One book a month, in 12 months, You can do in one year Talk about not having time. We all have time to read. Remember, readers are leaders, and the only way My second suggestion is about getting around We're the sum total of five people in which we surround ourselves We earn the same income, we do the same things, And if you were to look you've got to ask yourself &quot;Who are my leaders, In other words, &quot;Are my leaders taking me If the answer is no, You need people who are inspiring, lift you up to the goals that transcend You have to realize your goals, and you can only do that Many of us have what I like Default friends are basically people people at the grocery store, the gym, everywhere we go. These are people as we start to gain And what tends to happen is, and you have really high goals, a lot of these people So you have to look outside, I'll give you an example, I had a friend, his name was John, and his father and him at least it seemed like it. So I asked John, &quot;I want to start a business, John pulled me to the corner and said, &quot;Daniel, I don't think 98% of businesses fail Then he proceeded to tell me about and why it won't work. He told me how was so hard how hard it was to manage payroll, and why the recession was holding him back As he told me this, I became and I went home, and I thought about it. When I get to my journal, and I wrote down in my journal, Including that one. You have to realize that no one's opinion And in order to change your reality, and the people you surround yourself with. You have to get yourself people that are smarter than you, people who know what you need to do The truth is that the people are also looking for you, Sometimes, we surround ourselves who tell us what we can't do, A lot of people have the right intentions, but often times, In other words, they want to help us, So get around people who can. A lot of people ask me, It is easy. If you flow step one, you'll find that in the back of the book What I used to do Thankfully, we live in a new millennium which allows us to get on and so we can have We can change by actually understanding And if we ask enough questions, Remember that people you're looking for so get yourself around those people. My last and final suggestion because goals make you stretch, they help you to become And in this enormity of conformity, so many people don't know they get confused about the process. A lot of people use but the problem is that the person often Let's say Doug wants to stop smoking. On December 31st, he says, &quot;I'm done.&quot; January 1st, &quot;I'm clean, never again.&quot; He hasn't created a plan of action and therefore, it isn't reasonable. Bucket list is something else and usually, when someone they're giving themselves too much time. There is no urgency, and most of the time, So, &quot;What do you suggest?&quot; Well, I am glad you asked. What I do suggest for you I believe that a dull pencil and to impress your subconscious mind, so that you can hold this steadfastly I have this method that's called, &quot;The 20 Idea Method&quot;. Basically, what you do, is you select one overarching goal analyze 20 ideas Let's say, for instance, What are some things you can do? Well, you could watch TED talks, you could practice your speech, you could read the dictionary every day. There are so many things you can do, The answer is, &quot;Yes, Imagine if you did this financially, for promotions, and you wrote your goals on every day. You would be able to accomplish We have everything we need but we have to take the things we have from the cars that we drive, to the food that we eat, In this depository of diversity, we have But we have to believe. When you believe in yourself, you will find that everyone in the world And you also have to think big. When you think big, Well, B-I-G is actually is the 3 ideas B -- the books that you read, I -- the individuals that you meet, and G -- the goals Books, individuals, and goals: because when you think big, and you will win big, my friends. Thank you. (Applause).