In most reasonably large towns in the United you can find, on some important public square a professional theater. And so, in various quiet neighborhoods in you can usually also find some rather quiet the actors who work regularly in that theater, lawns and cars the athletic events put on the and for their particular community temporarily the darkest needs and loftiest hopes of the The actor's role in the community is quite Businessmen, for example, don't take their cry in front of strangers in the course of Actors do. Contrary to the popular misconception, the is not necessarily a specialist in imitating what he knows about other people. On the contrary, willing Interestingly, the actress who, in her own may be gentle, shy, and socially awkward, hand trembles when pouring a cup of tea for can convincingly portray an elegant, cruel malicious epigrams in an eighteenth-century On stage, her hand doesn't shake when she cup of chocolate, nor does she hesitate when the vilest gossip about her closest friends. The actress's next-door neighbors, perform, never have been, cruel. But she knows the truth that in fact and when she plays her part, she's simply the audience what she might have been, if an aristocrat in a chocolate house in the We are not what we seem. We are more than what we seem. The actor knows that. And because the actor knows that a king, in his daily life, just as he's performing He knows that when deceiving his friends life, not more, of himself that He knows, in fact, that part, and an enormous effort that exists inside him. Actors are treated as uncanny beings by non-actors that the small territory as "them." Actors, in contrast, look at non-actors with and secretly think: What an odd life those Doesn't it get a bit--claustrophobic? It's commonly noted that we all come into And at the beginning of each day, most of strange suspended moment before we put on In various religions, priests put on their Policemen, soldiers, janitors, and hotel maids work, go to their locker rooms, remove their uniforms. The actor goes to the theater, goes to his And as he does so, he remembers the character feels, how the character speaks. The actor, in costume, looks in the mirror, When the actor steps onto the stage to begin that what they're seeing is not a play, The costume that the actor wears, and the speaking that begin to return to the actor to set in motion a capacity possessed by every whose existence as part of our genetic makeup our capacity to believe what we want and need Because let's be frank -- other people are in a way be alien to me, they will always know with any certainty what they're like. So yes, it's possible to believe a fantasy Now, I've never met my own genes or looked I feel I can make some guesses about what One thing I feel I know is that I'm amazingly and I'm prepared to guess that this is characteristic And this is why people who can afford it spend And this is why films, which deal in close-ups, and hair. And this is why actors in plays take their It's all because people really do believe A haircut dramatically changes how we see A haircut can say, "I'm intelligent, disciplined, A different haircut can say, "I'm not care what happens to me, I don't care what There are haircuts that can say, "I find in how I look, I'm rather fun, and I think say, "I'm not interested in sex, and I Clothes work in a different way. While the shape of one's head, as completed tell us about a person's role in society. But there's an extraordinary similarity cues from haircuts and from clothes and in telling us is true. So when the actor comes on stage in the costume he is a king. The actor on stage is living in reality. He knows that there is indeed a king inside But he also knows very well that Fate has The audience member looking at the actor on until the curtain comes down. Our capacity to fantasize about other people possible for us to enjoy this valuable art But unfortunately it's a capacity which to human beings. It's well known what grief and even danger in our romantic lives and eagerly ascribe which are based on our hopes and not on truth. And one can hardly begin to describe the anguish capacity in the opposite direction, that is, to people who, for one reason or another, Sometimes we do this in regard to large groups But we can even apply our remarkable capacity we know rather well, sometimes simply to make happen to have done to them or are planning You couldn't exactly say, for example, that people. His problem was that he couldn't figure unless he owned these people as slaves. And as it would have been unbearable to him cruel as to keep in bondage people who were that was in front of his eyes and clung to his equals. Well, one could write an entire political the exhausting cycle of fantasies which different different other groups. Of course these fantasies were absurd in every After a while one does grasp the pattern. Africans, Jews, Mexicans, same-sex lovers, Hmm, after a certain period of time somebody from anybody else, they have the same capacities, geniuses, etc. etc. The revelations are always in the same direction. We learn about one group or another the thing when they become actors: people are more than We're all rather good at seeing through rather proud of it too. "Oh yes, after voting for Barack Obama, "We went to a reading of the poetry of Octavio saw Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi there It's this year's fantasies that present Are we more brilliant than Thomas Jefferson? Hmm -- probably not. So there's our situation: it's delightfully far away or by members of one's own group But this doesn't seem to help us to see moment, happen to be shared by the people the people we trust. Around 400,000 babies are born on earth each Some are born irreparably damaged, casualties -- malnutrition, polluted water, mysterious the genes. But the much more tragic and more horrible healthy. There's nothing wrong with them. Every one of them is ready to develop into taste, and love of other people could help Every one of them is ready to become a person they know they're going to spend the day they love. They're born with all the genetic gifts Wiggling beside their mothers, they have no In the old days of the Soviet Five-Year Plans, to happen to the babies born under their jurisdiction. They would calculate how many managers the many factory workers. And the Soviet leaders would organize society of people into each category. In most of the world today, the invisible I've sometimes noted that many people in obsessed, as I am, by the image of the trains and the way that the S.S. officers who greeted was called a "selection," choosing a few laborers, who would get to live for as long be sent to the gas chambers almost immediately. And just as inexorable as were these "selections" market when babies are born. The global market selects out a tiny group who are born in certain parts of certain towns and these babies are allowed to lead privileged Some will be scientists, some will be bankers. Some will command, rule, and grow fantastically paid intellectuals or teachers or artists. But all the members of this tiny group will realize their talents. As for all the other babies, the market sorts them violently into various pits, where an waiting for them. If the market thinks that workers will be thousand babies will be stamped with the label a certain particular pit. And when the moment comes when one of the work, she'll crawl out of the pit, and she'll in India or in China or in Mexico, and she'll she'll sleep in the factory's dormitory, workers, she'll have to ask for permission to the sexual whims of her boss, and she'll make her ill and lead to her death at an early And when she has died, one will be able to not to benefit herself, but to benefit others. Except that a nurse works to benefit the sick, to benefit the owners of her factory. She will have devoted her hours, her consideration, wealth. She will have lived and died for that. And it's not that anyone sadly concluded to become, let's say, a violinist, a conductor, The reason she was sent to the factory and ability but that the market wanted workers, And during the period when all the babies categories and labeled, during the period in their pens until they're ready to go costumes. And once they know what costume they'll a way of speaking, some characteristic personality person's face starts slowly to specialize with their personality, body type, and costume. And so each person comes to understand what select and reproduce, through all the decades and wardrobe, for the rest of his life. Even those of us who were selected out from I happen to play a semi-prosperous fortunate And as I walk out onto the street on a sunny I pass, for example, the burly cop on the jacket, distractedly ruminating as he shambles rushing to their meetings, I see the art student sometimes looming up as they come a bit closer, drug-store cashier in her oddly matched pink with his crazy dialect and his crazy gestures, round bellies and leering grins, the grim-faced employer's house and now races into a shop nothing, I have no reaction to what I'm I simply believe it. I believe the costumes. I believe the characters. And then for one instant, as the woman runs the way a drowning man might have one last I feel like screaming out, "Stop! Stop! This isn't real! It's all a fantasy! It's all a play! The people in these costumes are not what The accents are fake, the expressions are It's all --" My mind goes blank for a moment, and then The domestic worker runs out of the shop and I see her only as the character she plays. I see a person who works as a servant. And surely that person could never have lived, like me -- she's not intelligent enough. She had to be a servant. She was born that way. The hustler surely had to be a hustler, it's worn beautiful clothes, she could never have she could only ever have worn that pink shirt So, just as Thomas Jefferson lived in illusion, the slaves that he owned, I, too, put to use this capacity to fantasize which we've all My belief in the performance unfolding before moments when all of those babies were permanently The world hurled the infant who became the crippled her for life, and I saw it happen, And so it seems quite wonderful to me that and me with scrupulous equality. It seems wonderfully right. If I steal a car, I go to jail, and if she If I drive on the highway, I pay a toll, and We compete on an equal basis for the things If I apply for a job, I take the test, and test. And I go through my life thinking it's all If we look at reality for more than an instant, on the street, it's not bearable. It's not bearable to watch while the talents are crushed and destroyed. These happen to be things that I just can't And most of the time, the factory workers drivers can't think about them either. Their performances as these characters are believe about themselves just what I believe that they could ever have been, they could are. Of course, that's what we all have to believe, peace together. But it's the peace of death. Actors understand the infinite vastness hiding played, the characteristics not revealed. Schoolteachers can see every day that, given can sing, dance, juggle, do mathematics, paint, If the play we're watching is an illusion, hustler in fact had the capacity to become or a poet or a scholar of ancient Greek, then inherently immoral, and we must somehow learn that needs to be done. The costumes are wrong. They have to be discarded. We have to start out naked again and go from