- This episode is I used Squarespace to build and bingingwithbabish.com. On the sites you'll find other news and updates, If I do say so myself, get 10% off your first Squarespace order by visiting squarespace.com/babish. Today we're tasting every Well as many as we can get our hands on. I'm gonna be rating them on Kendall's gonna be and you the viewer get to We are baking all of the pizzas according to the package directions. We're gonna ignore any of our to do things a certain way. We're gonna do exactly that we get objective results Pizza numero uno is Tony's cheese, which now features 25% more pizza. And this is the kind of So this is probably gonna but nostalgia has no bearing We need to be objective. All right, let's take Bottom's pretty pale. This is not an artisanal pizza. This is a frozen pizza. And that's what happens sometimes. Tastes exactly how I remember it. Like a hot Lunchable. They say there's no such And this is both bad sex and bad pizza. It's not very good. Appearance. I'm gonna give it an even four because it resembles pizza, texture, is gonna dip even a little lower because it's not only not, you know, crispy or crunchy at all. It's rather chewy. I'm gonna knock down to a 3.1. Flavor. If we're going off nostalgia, everything's getting to 10, outta 10. But if I have to be objective and not let my childhood memories cloud my judgment, flavor's getting a 2.9. Sorry, Tony's, you but that's about all you are. I wouldn't have sex with this pizza. We have the first entrant in Table 87 Coal Oven Pizza. This is as seen on Shark Tank. What a delight, there is one which is gonna suffer frozen and heated. Basil wilts and discolors very quickly, but I want it in my mouth. Here we go. Hmm. Okay. And maybe I just got basil in the brain, but that flavor was really standout. Look at the bottom too, bottom's got really nice color on it. Looks like it came out per the packaging's suggestions. In appearance, first off, The crust is like too like over here. This is just insane. Just 'cause of the I'm gonna have to ding and give it like a 7.4. The texture, this is where it falls short of like a Neapolitan pie, which It's very tender. It doesn't have much of a tug chew to it, doesn't have enough So for texture, I'm gonna The sauce is killer, the cheese is good, but the sauce is really the standout. Like I really enjoy the sauce. I'm gonna try a little finger. So it's getting an 8.3 for flavor, flavor's really there. Now we have maybe the most insane and stoniest entry into the which is DiGiorno's Croissant crust pizza. Something that literally We also want to recognize We wanted to try this one. I'll pick off the pepperoni on my slice, but just ignore the pepperoni. Pretend it's not there. I think, it looks pretty good. It looks like they put a pizza which actually sounds very, very nice. So I'm not, I'm not complaining. Okay, I've heard this So I'm scared that I'm for not being super into But it really does taste I'd be stunned if this as Pillsbury Grand. Appearance, sheer novelty but also the cheese is I'm gonna give it a six. 'Cause it looks like pizza. That also is a biscuit and Texture. Pretty floppy, pretty thick, of its novel concept. I'm gonna give it a 2.8 'cause it's really, it's very thick. So flavor is where things really fall off because it's really just a novelty because like the, this does, this crust doesn't taste Overall flavor. It's not something I wanna keep eating. So that's gotta be a 2.8, right? Sorry, DiGiorno. It is delivery. Next up, this is Rao's Brick Oven crust, five cheese pizza. You know, it looks pretty It is definitely darker. Again, we bake these according Ooh, it smells good. We're stepping things up. The crust, this is the first crunchy crust that bought like nice bottom that I've gotten. The sauce is rather orangy. It tastes exactly like which tastes like every So it tastes like bottled and tastes like they of dried oregano in there, which is great. It gives like the, you Okay, I just got a slice and here I am in New York. Oregano. So the crust, it's the first crust that tastes like real, it of preservatives and vegetable oil. So starting with appearance, It looks more like pizza than any of the pizzas we've tried so far. Again, big step up in texture. Still not like awesome. Let's give this a seven. And flavor, and this is a real mixed bag 'cause the sauce, I'm not a and the oregano are really top-notch and the crust does taste good. I would probably put the It's a pretty decent piece of 'za. Next up, the DiGiorno five This is another insane It's got some startling Two and a half feet of cheese, usually cheese, not measured in feet. DiGiorno found a way, let's eat it. Again, pretty pale and That just affected me in a very real way. So this tastes almost exactly despite having four more I don't know. See how the crust is still (bleep), it gets shockingly I don't know what happened error or something, but I think the cheddar makes it look terrible. I'm glad I can't taste it, So appearances getting a three. Okay, 3.2. Texture. It is soft, it is bready. The only saving grace So 3.5 for texture. Flavor. Likewise, nothing's doing it for me. There's no flavor to the stuffed crust. It's just nice to eat because It's a little better because the croissant one is so much bread and it tastes so processed. So the flavor for this increase to 3.3. The best part about it, which is the best part of any stuffed crust pizza to be fair. But this one, like I would and not eat any other part nobody were watching, judging me on the internet. Okay, this one got a little messed up, but that's entirely my fault. So here we have Newman's Own thin and crispy crust four cheese pizza. Those cheeses include and Asiago, cheddar. What is up with putting It looks pretty much If anything it looks better We got a little extra browning on there. Very thin indeed. Bottom looking good. Feels pretty good too. It's dry. It's not soggy. It's good, the crust like the other ones. The sauce is good. There's The cheese is quite good. There is like diversity in That was cool. I'd say a slightly more solid entrant in terms of the world of frozen 'za. Appearance. The guy's getting 6.5. It looks good. There's no crust. That kind of hurts it. I actually, you know, I'm gonna bump it up to a seven. I'm gonna keep, I'm gonna keep being more, more generous as I go. Texture, definitely a step up because it is advertised And guess what? That's I'm gonna give it a seven for texture. Flavor. The crust isn't that great The sauce is not awesome but And the cheese, I actually variances in the cheese. So with that in mind, I think that it has a hard 6.9. Nice. So here we have California Pizza Kitchen's four cheese pizza, a thin I grew up going to I'm just grateful that this and ravioli and like my receipt on it. Like they load so much But what they did do was the four cheeses are two types of mozzarella. Doesn't say what type, but then they go (bleep) by adding fontina and hickory smoked gouda. This doesn't make any sense Oh, smoked good. No. Smoked gouda on a pizza. That's all it tastes like. First off, I feel like I'm at the cheeseboard at a Super Bowl party. Like this isn't pizza. I can't taste the tomato sauce at all. I can't taste anything but the gouda. Appearance, I'm gonna give it a, I'm gonna give it a 5.6. Texture is not so great. What really undoes it is the crust. I can see why I called it powdery. It does have, it's got like flour on it. Not crazy about the texture. I'm gonna give it a 3.8. And now for flavor. And this is really where Really the only thing you taste of this is guoda, on a this is getting a two, I'm not even gonna give it a two. (cat screeching) Next up, Trader Joe's or as they so fancifully Traders Jiodo's, pizza margarita. And this first off looks It's the most accurate that we've seen so far today. Crust has a nice chew to it. If we're going for to have a good chew, you want to have to kind of fight it a little bit. The sauce is also the most natural tasting sauce I've had so far today. It tastes like tomatoes. It's got that nice bright acidic tomato flavor, which in Neapolitan style pizza and So this is rather a tasty pie. So for appearance, I'm 'cause it's very pretty. Texture. Got a good chew to it. Gotta kind of tug it a little bit. It's not bready or Like a lot of the other ones have been. I can think of very few bad things to say but, so maybe actually the Let's do 8.1 for texture. Boy Trader Jioto's you really Flavor. The sauce tastes really good. The cheese tastes really good. The crust tastes solid. I think it's gonna get an even eight. You know, it's not perfect. It still tastes like, you know, something that was reheated in the oven, but way better in Neopolitan pizza out of the freezer than I ever Next up folks, we have four cheese pizza, And you can really tell with this one, provolone and Parmesan. Okay, so the pizza is a classic as not too thick, not too thin, with just the right amount of crunch. I'll be the judge of that. This is not off to a great start. The cheese, as you might be able to see, is separating in a most unseemly way. There's also an obscene amount of sauce on this pizza. Look at the amount of underneath the cheese. Lots and lots of sauce. A little less sauce on this one, so maybe we can give it Let's give it a try. This pizza should be in the encyclopedia as the visual entry to frozen pizza. This is about as standard and classic a frozen pizza Tastes more like preservatives Not a great entry here. Let's start with appearance. Tony's, I gave a 4.0 for appearance and frankly that's entirely unfair. It's a slightly, it's a comparable looking pizza to this. And this does not look good. I'd like to do a little and officially rescind my score of 4.0 to Tony's. It was my first rating of the day. My metrics were all outta I've grown a lot and I And so two does this, It is crumbly, it's short. The cheese is not like I'm going to put the Flavor. Also nothing good. I don't like the sauce. There's too much of it. It tastes like melted tomato ice cream. And the cheese is flavorless. The crust tastes fake. I'm gonna give it a a 2.3 for flavor. I think we have found Next up, famously vegetarian Amy's Pizza. This does not quite resemble Doesn't look terrible. It's definitely over baked, but there's some good I like that. That's the first that we've seen all day. That's pretty cool. Let's give it a try. It definitely tastes different. It's all sauce. I don't taste anything else but the sauce. I don't know, it's like canned spaghetti, like SpaghettiOs sauce, like Almost. It's very different. Hmm. I wanna try the crust. Hmm. Oh wow. The crust has a positively It tastes like, almost Appearance, again, little over baked. Had we not over baked it, it But I do like the bubbles on the crust. So gonna give the appearance a 4.7. The texture is decent. Cheese is kind of sticky. The crust has a really nice But then again for pizza, So texture. Not great, gonna be And then flavor, this is The cheese is flavorless, the sauce tastes like tomato sauce, but like a very specific kind But the crust does taste good. It tastes like fresh baked bread. I'm going to give it a 4.1 for flavor. That's Amy's. Ellio's. Ellio's. Ellio's cheese pizza. Brad has remarked that it looks when he was in in school. My school pizza growing up was about like twice as thick as this. It was just like bread But this looks like pretty That's the vibe that I'm getting off here. Imitation pizza product. This was made by machines and sold to you for pennies on the dime. It's too much sauce, it's too sweet. Cheese is better than some iterations that we've had today. Crust is non-existent kind of bad. So for appearance, I'll give it a 3.5. It looks like if AI like if make me a pizza. Texture, it is very The cheese is kind of gummy a little bit. It's a little bit too much sauce. It's really not much in terms of texture. The cheese is slightly better. So why don't we give it a This tastes exactly the frozen pizza I've ever had. It'll get the job done. There's not as much sauce as and it's not as like horrible So I'm gonna put this at a 2.8 for flavor. Okay Ellio's, it's one and that's fondly in my So now we are faced in the frozen pizza world. And that is TombStone, once as one can imagine, the that came in Lunchables Pizza. Like remember it came with like a little squeeze tube of sauce. I'm like 99% sure that was TombStone. Very similar visually But with one glaring exception that the cheese is pretty well and it's not, it's not like, of shreds that are just well, you want me to melt? What do you think I am cheese. Wow. I mean these all taste the same. The TombStone, the Red Baron, the Tony's, they all taste exactly the same. Too tender. You know, you got no But giving me great cheese to award some points for which is appearance. I'm wholly opposed to So that's offensive looking to me. Well Ellio's at least didn't have fricking cheddar on it. So I'm going to dock this down to a 3.4, oh yeah, cheese pull, cheese pull. I would do 3.4, but the an extra .5 points. So we're gonna knock that up to a 3.9. The texture is probably the The crust has the worst So I'm gonna put this at a 3.1. This flavor is not good. It tastes almost identical to several of the pizzas that we've had today. So it's going to get an identical score. 2.8 Totino's, you love them but will you love them for their pizzas? This has gotta be the worst It looks like a healing There's a festering about it. Wow, that is unappealing looking. I don't know, am I over reacting? 'Cause I feel like that looks awful. Let's see. Here we go. And I really like the way it tastes just from a nostalgia standpoint. They're clearly using the same ingredients as the pizza rolls. So this tastes just like It just brings joy to my I forgot how sweet There's not a hint of acidity to this. It's got crunch to it. It doesn't burst out the side This tastes like, it really It makes me feel like It makes me feel like I'm His mom just brought down and sorry for my language. I'm just excited. Here's the other thing. It does not taste like pizza. This doesn't taste at all like pizza. It tastes like Totino's pizza rolls, which don't really taste like pizza. They taste good, but I don't I can't do it now. So first up, appearance looks like hell, it looks like actual hell. It looks awful. Unless I were really hungry and didn't know what it tasted like, I would just be like, you Simply because it doesn't puke looking at it, I'm gonna give it 1.5 for appearance. It's a heinous thing to have to look at. Texture. Texture is not the worst It's got a little bit of a chew to it. It's not super short or crumbly. It's very cracker like. It's pretty dry, but it's very thin, which in a frozen pizza The cheese does glue itself to your teeth. I've tried four bites now and each time it just spot welds itself to the front of my teeth. So texture, I'm gonna give it Stop doing these round numbers. 3.6 just to keep it interesting. And flavor. And this is where it gets really crazy because it doesn't taste So I think what I have I have to average my nostalgia and the reality of the situation. And my nostalgia says And the reality of the like a three. I'm gonna give it 5.7 And I said I wouldn't let but here I am openly letting Next we have Roberta's. I have a personal connection to Roberta's. I live in Brooklyn. I'm kidding. My first apartment in 14 years ago was across So I couldn't afford to So I would just smell it and then I would go home to my bedbugs. So this looks a lot like It looks like, you know, an It's got great char bubbles on it. All that stuff. Sauce is surprisingly orange. Did not see that coming. Yeah, really light and thin. It really does resemble Wow. Wow. Like I never would've guessed that this came out of a freezer. I would've guessed that that was fired not 10 minutes ago. Let's start with appearance. It looks fantastic. It looks like, you know, Neapolitan pizza, which That being said, the sauce Like this looks like electric orange. That's kind of bizarre to me. So that's gonna ding it slightly. But for appearance, you I'm gonna give it a 9.2. Texture's fantastic. It's got a great chew to it. The crust is like, it's got Just like the real Neapolitan pizza. It's the closest thing to a Neapolitan pizza So the texture is also going to get top marks at a 9.4. And the flavor, likewise is fantastic. Roberta's cold ferments their I don't know if they do but it sure tastes like they do because the pizza dough, it's got a really nice The cheese, the mozz tastes like cream. It tastes like dairy, like it and the sauce tastes fantastic. It's that very raw, bright that I like the most. The flavor is probably It's gonna have to get a 9.6. That's pretty incredible. This is kind of a technological marvel. Well, folks, we did it. We tasted 14 different frozen pizzas and surprise, surprise with myself, but there's no denying that it's the best pizza I'm wholly impressed by Roberta's Like it does not taste It's ready in three minutes Like, it holds up incredibly well. It doesn't taste like preservatives. It tastes fresh and natural and like it just came Amazing. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring today's episode. They've been a great partner in supporting the Babish culinary universe and bringing my websites to life. From websites to online stores, to domains and analytics, Squarespace for you to build your online presence. They also have SEO tools so that your site is getting found in search If you wanna try it for yourself, you can start your free trial today by visiting squarespace.com/babish to get 10% off your first purchase. (bright music)