Autumn 1941. the Germans have advanced 500 miles and inflicted massive casualties Both sides prepare to commit to the decisive battle of the campaign, September 1941 - 10 weeks after Now Moscow itself was braced Barricades and anti-tank obstacles Windows were taped up to reduce the danger And at night, the city was immersed "Lit windows help the enemy", Stalingrad, for the moment, Bandaged soldiers on the city's streets that raged many miles to the west. In the workshops of the Stalingrad tank production was round the clock. The enormous losses suffered by the Red That summer hundreds of tanks because their crews couldn't fix Now tank crews began They were taught every and how to fix them if they broke down. One of the commanders of these was the 40 year old Katukov began the war But its obsolete tanks for the Germans in the summer of 1941. Katukov and the remnants of his division In late September, his brigade's new Mikhail Katukov and the 4th Tank Brigade Moscow had already The first German air raid came on 22nd July, 1941. German pilots were told, "You've bombed If the Russians even have antiaircraft They don't have searchlights, But these illusions were soon shattered. The skies over Moscow were defended by thousands of antiaircraft guns Soviet night-fighters attacked German Barrage balloons rose to 2500 metres, much higher than over London. The risk of flying into their steel to fly at much higher altitudes, But inevitably, some bombers got through. The Belorussky Rail Terminal, and army supply depots were all hit. The Kremlin itself was hit by 6 incendiaries It pierced the roof and the ceiling of the Georgiyevsky Hall. On the night of 12th August, a 1,000 kg making a crater 12 metres deep, But German bomber crews were made A total of 134 air raids More than 1,500 bombs on the city during the war. The biggest raid was on 29th October, 1941. More than 300 bombers took part. the Moscow State University, and the 47 German planes Hitler's invasion plan called in the first three to four But fighting around Smolensk and Kiev The assault on Moscow was not ready The Soviet High Command, the Stavka, expected the Germans to attack The Red Army units began to dig in along this route. But the Germans were planning a surprise. General Hoepner's 4th Panzer Group from the Leningrad front to join To conceal this manoeuvre, the Panzer Group left its headquarters Each radio operator working in Morse code has a distinct style of transmitting just as each pianist has Experts can pick out just by listening in When the Soviets intercepted which they knew came from they assumed Hoepner's forces But all they were listening to... Commander of 4th Panzer Group, Erich known as 'the Old Cavalryman'. Nevertheless he'd been one and embrace the principles Three German panzer groups Guderian and Hoth, who was replaced The German plan was to force in which they would encircle and annihilate The operation was codenamed "Typhoon". The offensive began near Bryansk. Red Army troops were ready which lay at the centre But on 30th September 1941, Guderian's Heinz Guderian had a reputation based on his early writings on the theory He was also a bold who often quarrelled In three days, the bulk of the enemy forces opposing him. In two more days his troops had reached In a desperate attempt the Soviet High Command took Giant Tupolev TB-3s and Lisunov The Germans, recovering from their surprise, Nevertheless, 6,000 men plus equipment The troops immediately went Soon, T-34s from Colonel Katukov's after their 500 mile train Tank brigades replaced that had been destroyed that summer. A mechanized corps 1,000 tanks plus guns and other vehicles. The new, more mobile tank brigades Katukov now had a chance that so far he'd only been able First the tanks had to be concealed, Several alternative positions Dummy positions were also built A T-34's gun could destroy any German tank But the key to success was patience, Katukov told his men: only at point blank range This means a range of 200 to 300 metres." When taking on a German panzer column, Soviet gunners would target and then the rear tank. the rest of the column One member of Katukov's brigade was In 28 engagements believed to be the most by The tank ambushes proved Orel fell to the Germans, but Katukov's As Red Army paratroopers the Germans launched German Army Group Centre rapidly and Western Fronts, securing the highway Operation Typhoon was in full swing. The Germans had broken through On 4th October 1941, General Konev that his forces were about to be cut off. The Stavka seemed unable to accept that another major disaster Hitler, meanwhile, He addressed the crowds "Huge events are now We have launched a large-scale operation that will lead to the final Once again, the Stavka's More than half a million Red Army soldiers had become encircled The divisions and regiments that did escape With bitter humour, they referred It was becoming all too familiar to the Red Enemy air superiority The 43rd Army reported: They make raids in groups Survivors are left senseless." One aircraft was especially The Junkers JU 87 Stuka of the German blitzkrieg machine. it was able to deliver its bombs The aircraft would then circle with light bombs and machine guns. These sustained attacks sowed chaos and destruction ahead The bulk of German to encircle the Soviet armies But several divisions, led by SS Panzer These troops had been given to enter the Russian capital. The Germans were just 205km from Moscow, The Red Army rushed a battalion Armed only with machine guns, they fought ferociously to hold By the end of the day, from 430 men, By the time a tank brigade the signpost read 180 kilometres to Moscow. Despite such fierce resistance, It had suffered huge losses The enemy was Reinforcements were on but Stalin desperately needed more time. In this, the darkest hour, After arriving at General Headquarters in Zhukov drew a simple, stark conclusion: "The defensive front in the west A huge gap has appeared in our front line, as there are no reserves. Hitler's confidence seemed well placed. But there was a small window of time Soviet troops encircled near Vyazma only a few German divisions Zhukov's immediate task and restore Moscow's defences of German Army Group Centre fell upon them. The Mozhaysk defensive line, was the last obstacle between In early October everyone not fighting was helping to build the Mozhaysk line. Zhukov planned to fill it with troops. But the only spare ones he could from Moscow's military schools. It was a sign of how desperate The Mozhaysk line was more than 200km long. Seven rifle divisions but realistically these raw recruits could The Stavka had to take one of the war's In besieged Leningrad, there were The Stavka had gathered reserves that would lift the siege But just hours after the disaster The reserves were They were now bound for Moscow, The elite SS Das Reich division was Its troops were well trained, experienced, Near the battlefield of Borodino, where they met the Soviet 32nd Division. These were fresh troops, hurriedly Their headquarters where General Kutuzov's headquarters The first German tanks appeared Near the village of Yelnia, the road descended into a deep Soviet pillboxes housing antitank guns overlooked the crossing When the German tanks reached the bottom, There was no space for the tanks The German panzers The SS troops included Field Marshal von Kluge reminding them how under Napoleon, Germans and French had fought side-by-side The next day the French legion But in the face of Soviet it suffered devastating losses. The unit Zhukov's orders were clear: Every day they held out allowed more time The German advance was now measured The Das Reich division that included most of its officers. The Germans tried to blast Ivan Makukha, a cadet from the Podolsk "Direct hits on our pillbox caused and left us bleeding The reinforced Germans renewed the assault. Kaluga fell on 13th October, The 32nd Division was forced to retreat the enemy's advance was halted once more A staff officer of the German "The recent fighting was the fiercest of the entire campaign. Our tank losses have risen dramatically For the Germans, the honour of being had turned into a nightmare All possible measures were being All the major roads into Moscow were mined, Old Kiev, Mozhaysk, Zvenigorod, The bridges were also mined. Obstacles In total, more than 150 minefields Meanwhile Soviet troops encircled near much to the surprise 24 German divisions earmarked had to be held back to fight Von Funck, commander "Combat following was some of the heaviest Some of our panzergrenadier platoons It took a full week for the Germans Of 580,000 men encircled 130,000 were killed or missing in action, Only 85,000 men broke out Front commander Yeryomenko was seriously Major General Petrov, and Major General Rakutin, Commander Among those captured who died in a German prisoner of war camp; Major General Vishnevskiy, and the wounded Commander of the 19th Army, Lukin survived the German camps When Stalin heard the news, he said: "Tell Lukin my words Stalin wrote on Lukin's file, He was not always so generous It was mid-October. completed the destruction the autumn rains began to fall. The German troops complained to conduct offensive operations But muddy roads were Colonel Katukov recalled: "Even T-34s could foul their tracks Staff cars had to be towed otherwise they would never get though." Many German officers later to take Moscow entirely on the weather. But in private, many admitted had badly underestimated and the scale of their reserves. For now, the German offensive In Moscow, news of the German advance On 15th October, the Central Committee as well as most of the ministries The next day, many shops Workers were left on the streets with On the orders of Commissar Lazar It was rigged with explosives if the Germans entered the city. Trams stayed in their depots. The roads leading east, to safety, The Luftwaffe stepped up its air raids. The streets were awash The situation demanded urgent measures. Aleksandr Shcherbakov, First Secretary of He assured citizens that Moscow The NKVD secret police would patrol Check points were set up everywhere. People trying to leave the city Looters and scaremongers were sentenced and shot by firing squad. And posters went up across the city announcing a concert The posters had their desired effect. If Russia's biggest celebrity was in town, In fact at the beginning of November, But there was no room for complacency. The cry was "Not a step back!", On 4th November, an order was read out to Its commander Gerasimov were to be executed by firing squad for They had retreated without authorisation. Stalin knew his own movements He choose to remain in Moscow, and inspect the parade held every year All preparations for the parade Even the units taking part and at the last moment, the start time At ten past 8 on the morning every radio station in the Soviet Union It was a supreme act of state theatre. No other parades were held in Moscow To hold one in 1941, showed the world Stalin to fight to the bitter end. The troops seen here would go straight on to the front line. There they would take part and most decisive Muscovites had been fully mobilised They built fortifications and made weapons. The Dynamo and Kalinin Automobile factories now By 5th November, Muscovites' had made more than 80 million roubles. 377 kilos of silver But now, with the ground frozen hard, German Army Group Centre Moscow was not just It was also the transport hub All the major road If Moscow fell, the Soviet Union By the time Army Group Centre the city's defences Reinforcements continued to arrive Katukov's Tank Brigade was one of the units Like an increasing Katukov could now consider Understanding the role of air reconnaissance "Tank tracks and footsteps in deep This isn't taken who walk around their positions that can be seen from above." Katukov recommended changes to standing The Red Army was slowly learning its craft. Guderian's 2nd Panzer Army resumed its advance through 3rd and 4th Panzer Groups Their objectives were the crossings with the aim of encircling Moscow The simultaneous assault of two panzer But the line did not break. The Red Army retreated Katukov recalled: every single kilometre yielded to the enemy We passed road signs reading "60 km South of Moscow, Guderian bypassed Tula, but ran into determined resistance from By 30th November, German observers Motorcyclists from Hoepner's a Moscow suburb less According to one account, In another, they were forced It would prove to be the high-water In his memoirs Guderian wrote: All the sacrifices and efforts As a result, the army's strength Just as German reserves the Stavka was gathering fresh divisions One army prepared to hit Reinhardt's panzer Another was aimed at the flank of Another army would roll back the Germans On 29th November that he give the order Stalin issued the order that evening. As German soldiers struggled to cope as low as minus 30 degrees they could at least take comfort "The enemy's combat capababilities "are not sufficient to conduct But sunrise on 5th December Fresh Soviet tank brigades launched a full-scale assault They tore across the frozen landscape, and fighting fierce battles Hundreds of German vehicles, lay abandoned at the road side. Many German soldiers now General Schaal recalled, "More and more but could be seen leading livestock, or perhaps dragging a sleigh loaded Soldiers killed in air attacks In the south, "With a heavy heart," he wrote, I ordered our troops to cease all attacks, The pursuers had become the pursued. The call "Not a step back!" There was to be no mercy for the invader. Meanwhile, Field Marshal von Bock was echoing Soviet orders of just "A commander may only order a withdrawal with the permission of his army commander. A division will not retreat To add to the suffering, the coldest Russian winter in 140 years. A German doctor's diary recorded: He can make a stove out Our men only know how to warm themselves The Wehrmacht faced the same fate They had been forced back more than It was the first large-scale repulse Footage of thousands of German prisoners was seen around the world. Hitler blamed defeat on a failure Field Marshal von Brauchitsch was sacked His successor.. was Adolf Hitler. Von Bock was replaced by Field Marshal Gunter von Kluge. Guderian clashed with the High Command once For ordering a retreat, Hoepner was sacked In 1944 he was hanged However, Hitler's demands and offer 'fanatical resistance' The front line was eventually stabilised, as the Germans dug in Meanwhile, the Soviet Supreme along the entire front - from besieged Leningrad in the north Outside Moscow, the Red Army and cut off Army Group Centre's Stalin hoped for a grand encirclement. The German High Command fed in fresh As they reinforced the front line, the lead elements of the Soviet Two Soviet armies, and thousand of paratroopers Their attempts to fight As 33rd Army was surrounded and crushed, its commander General Yefremov committed Maslennikov's 39th Army and the paratroopers Only part of Belov's cavalry corps galloping through the forests The Red Army still had much to learn. Zhukov told his officers: I insist that you stop ordering on well-defended enemy positions. You should attack along ravines, through forests or where there is some By April 1942, meant the Red Army was running out Its losses, exacerbated by its own As the spring thaw began, the Soviet Germany had entered a war of attrition its spirits raised by the successful In the battle for Moscow the Germans suffered 400,000 casualties. They had lost 1,300 tanks. By comparison, in the conquest of Poland and in the defeat of France, 154,000. At the Nuremberg Trials, Chief of the German High Command, when he knew that the invasion He replied with one word: "Moscow".