There have been a lot of Hollow Knight icebergs wanted to make a video covering one. But Hollow tend to get a bit too memey. Also I show up on a However, just recently a reddit user known as talk about on this channel. Normally these I've already discussed before, which is another There's a little bit of that here too, but I've never even talked about on this If you don't know how icebergs work, basically or mysterious the entries are supposed to be. and the fanbase being fairly large, it's hard without it just being made up. But thankfully The surface level is all the normie stuff. If you you have probably heard most of these entries. The Land of Storms is a hidden area in Godhome challenge with each binding. It shows off a before making their pilgrimage to Hallownest. of Hollow Knight players won't even encounter. so it's not surprising to see In Kingdom's Edge there is a room with a single area. There really isn't anything significant wonder and mystery about what's laying just a lot as a kid playing Super Mario 64, trying The Elegy for Hallownest is a short poem that for Hollow Knight, there's actually several more grew over time, fell due to the infection, and the that can't be inferred from other lore sources, so One interesting thing to note about this poem is didn't even know these extra verses existed This is a reference to a cut lore tablet alongside Record Aba and because this lore tablet actually explicitly had to reform how their minds worked After defeating the False Knight in Forgotten sprout legs and scuttle away. If you Dream If you encounter Mister Mushroom all he will appear in a post credits cutscene black screen with the text "To be continued". This making an appearance in later games developed character, as his dialogue when encountered in earlier games made by Team Cherry such as Hungry Iselda has Dream Nail dialogue about how life with Cornifer, but that she'd like William Pellen even reiterates this in a Reddit might actually be relevant at some point in the Next up on the iceberg are the shallow waters. but there still isn't much mystery about the game or pretty well known Empress Muzznik is just the early name Back during the Kickstarter, the enemies The Lore Bible is an internal document used lore. Team Cherry has only ever referred to William: It's all planned well in advance. Ari: Of course. Everything's set in stone. William: We've got an extensive Will we see this lore document In February 2019, McFarlane toys teased on their Facebook account. Later that summer, shown off by McFarlane at the 2019 New York Toy further updates about the Hollow Knight figure, what happened. I guess we're stuck with The Hunter's Journal doesn't really make sense tells us that by defeating enemies, we gain the his Hunter's journal. There are some instances For example, the Dreamer fights and Grimm the description text as opposed to a symbol he didn't necessarily write these notes. in the first place? How exactly do we get or smut like The Grey Prince? And even if we appear for enemies like the Radiance. So does this In early development screenshots of Hollow shade to its body. And it somehow looks even There are a number of enemies in the game who than an ellipsis. Fool Eater, Gulka, Shadow Creeper, Broken Vessel and Lost Kin. It closely tied to the Abyss share this attribute. able to read minds, so it's hard to know what its Dream Nail dialogue just a reflection of If you die in the Lake of Unn room and come back, just like the Moss Knight we also see there. Is the Shade also hearing this call, or can Regardless, it's a neat little detail, since we don't see the shades interacting with Relic Seeker Lemm's name is shown as Relic Seeker Nosk's lair is located behind a breakable wall in Nosk appears just out of reach luring them to his boss fight room. However, Nosk Nosk first appears in the room leading In order to attempt a pantheon in Godhome, in that pantheon in Hallownest. There are two If you don't save Zote in Greenpath, Grey Prince do save him, Grey Prince Zote won't appear in a Another exception is God Tamer. You don't have Pantheon of the Sage. This is probably because have to finish the entire Colosseum of Fools Lorewise, it doesn't really make sense and it but if we factor in gameplay As far as I know, we have no idea what before it became the City of Tears. It's but an actual name doesn't appear anywhere Deepnest used to be a lot bigger Eventually, the eastern portion of Deepnest was which eventually became a catch all for stuff Eventually this area became The only enemies we see in Fog Canyon are the and there, but no infected husks like we see seen is that the jellyfish were explicitly since they remain entirely passive while the Brumm and Nymm are both musicians playing But if we look closely at this accordion, implying it's in the same boat as Macebug. Brumm to rescue this poor creature. So instead There are some differences between the base The two main differences are that and the player encounters Steel Is Steel Soul mode the more canonical Ellina from the Wanderer's Journal encounters Also, why is the game mode where you It's kinda back asswards, don't you think? There are a lot of funny and memorable voice FAAAAAAAA- FUNDAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA And GOOOOOOORRRRRRRRRB And of course Does he look like a bitch? By far one of the most well known help the Knight during the Hollow Knight fight. GEK TUU A popular meme within the community Cherry has actually addressed this Ari: Happy coincidence William: Is the actual word Gek Duu Ari: I believe it's Gek Tuu William: Ah, Gek Tuu! This probably refers to how the Fungal Wastes encompassing the Fungal Wastes, Greenpath, Team Cherry broke up the area into When Zote first appears in Dirtmouth after he talks about how Elderbug is rambling on In response to this Zote says "Has he simply While we can find Tiso's corpse in Kingdom's Tiso is killed in the Colosseum of Fools. A that Tiso was killed by the Brooding Mawlek since that's what he gets killed by in this Throughout the Mantis Village are Once we gain access to the Mark of Pride actually sleeping in these things. How cute. Once you find the Pale King's corpse in the After a short while, the game will play a It's a cool, little detail is basically in the hands Below the iceberg, things start to get more hard for me to know what details are more well are more obscure. I've spent so much time learning In the earliest promotional we can see that the three dreamers each sporting the same mask we see Monomon we can even see an archway near the Black Egg Shark Jump Studios is a company that helped Team The Switch is not a very powerful machine, when it first came out, so Team Cherry hired some When we first encounter the Nailsmith, he to hone another nail, implying he has done Nailsmith eventually notices we are and he never brings up this other client again. I to. But I do think there is something going on When you Dream Nail the Pale King in the "No cost too great". However, there was unused. He said "False one... You can not... reach me... but it seems Team Cherry wanted the Pale King's The Abyss doesn't really have music Instead we just get a low droning sound which However, if you speed up the music, you plays at the start of the game After beating the third pantheon in Godhome for mode locks you into Godhome permanently where of Gods on a separate save file. It's a small files immediately in Godhome, but it also has some completely differently in this mode, groveling to and translator, this entire mode canonically Hallownest. So does that mean that all the stuff cleared up? That's good, I guess. But what's going to dick around in here while God knows what is We only ever see White Lady but we can assume she used to be Her silhouette can be seen on the back of the early sketches of her that might show off what In the same little part of Queen's Station a red tent. This has generated a theory that like the Grimmsteed, but somehow escaped. It's a She has no dialogue that even hints at to the Grimmchild in some way, then I'd Lost Kin is similar to Soul Tyrant and Failed bosses found in Hallownest. However, when fighting look very similar to the places their normal follow this trend. It looks like this arena is as opposed to the Ancient Basin. There really The Broken Vessel boss fight used to be located really answer our question, since the Lost In Kingdom's Edge, the player can find the several massive nails. Who were these nails Hallownest carry these things around and fight There are some development screenshots of has a fourth Soul Vessel. There's The White Palace has one section The room where the Pale King experimented on Void make no sense geometrically. The White Palace is but it's the only part of the While Dirtmouth is at the top of the world actually on the surface of the world. There's Leth, Team Cherry's marketing director, posted was actually underground. However, there are a few that kinda contradict this claim. We can also see which I don't think can happen underground, The first four pantheons in Godhome Artist, Sage and Knight. Those four which is obviously a reference to 1994 film also the Pantheon of Hallownest, which There is a hidden area in the Hall of Destroying this wall allows Zote the There is even unused dialogue that calls Zote Apparently the Godseekers didn't view which is really saying something The blue lantern is a mysterious unused it holds some kind of blue flame, but I have This is a myth that has been floating around that Cornifer sounded like he was speaking that the voice actor for Cornifer, Dave Kazi, is who are Hungarian say that Cornifer is definitely only sound Hungarian because it's gibberish being Dung Defender used to have Dream Nail but this dialogue can no longer be accessed into the White Defender fight. This also has Dream Nail dialogue that When the Knight has the Sharp Shadow charm, its appearance during the dashing animations. making it a bit more like the Void Entity from the Void Tendril enemies who also appear to The Gorgeous Husk in the City of Tears and both give the player a total of 420 Geo. Nice. From an old development map of Hallownest, Lurian the Whisperer. As if The White Crystal Ring was an item for Hollow Knight. It appeared to be sort of like the Mega Buster from Mega Man is that you can still see a few of them The Hollow Knight was wearing armor when We see glances of it in the opening, as well as We can get a better glimpse of the It appears in the Godmaster reveal trailer for comes with the Collector's Edition From this point on, we are mainly going to never really been discussed by Team Cherry or we single phrases that have appeared on old artwork Back in 2017, a Collector's Edition of by Indiebox. This edition had a special Included in some of these releases was a document into detail about the habits of Grubs: what and what they do when they are sad. It's unclear approved it as accurate canonically. But there's Grubs grow quickly and are voracious but it is considered taboo to feed them flesh This document makes Grubs out to be like fucking gremins. And people seriously wonder The Dirtmouth fly is an NPC who appears in These two images were found hosted on but they were never actually publicly never even meant for us to see this creature. In October of 2015, Team Cherry posted an of some gigantic monster attacking This creature didn't make it into the final it really would translate well into an actual Void Tendrils. And we can even see that these that looks pretty awkward. Although you'd never The Skywards Slash is the name of a cut Nail Art It shows up on an old development map and Spin Attack. So at this point I assume Skyward Slash would have which doesn't sound too terribly There are quite a few entries in this section we have collected from Team Cherry interviews Apparently there were going to somewhere near where the hot spring is now would have shown. Perhaps it would have given We know a little bit about the Weavers, but not much about the non-Weaver The Faraway Grave is an area that crypts in the Resting Grounds, near This area certainly sounds important, The Pantheon of Stone is the name of the Live event at E3 2018. Hollow Knight and Team Cherry was in L.A. to show The pantheon is pretty short, only showing This pantheon was probably just thrown Hornet was revealed on December 9th, 2014 in However, in Update 11 posted on the 6th, Team Makoto Koji, the voice actor for Hornet. It's weird combination of the Knight and Hornet. Was There is an early concept sketch of this thing We do see giant cocoon looking structures like this sketch. So maybe this is some I'm not sure what Significance of 249 means. buzzsaws in the White Palace. I counted Maybe SteevPoyo96 should check their math Bombeetles are a type of weapon mentioned in a after the Hollow Knight Kickstarter. This of Hallownest to help higher tiered backers design about weapons, and one class of weapon mentioned highly volatile creatures that It appears these designs were and an unused wing variant We all know about the cut Forest of but for some reason during development, they Land". I'm not sure if this is referencing the For some reason, the Switch release of Hollow that shows the player the auto save icon. while all the other versions of If you have watched all my videos, you know Cherry. I have to keep cycling through the same one image in particular of Team Cherry This image has always bothered me. Why floating in space above them? Why do they look This image bothered me so much that when I I asked them about this image explicitly. local newspaper after Hollow Knight and the interviewer decided that they should is a game about underground bugs. So he took them And I'm glad he did because this pic goes hard. I'm happy I was finally able to although I'm not really sure why SteevPoyo69 It's barely even related to Hollow Knight and We have very little on the Ancient Spider Corpse that went unused. We get to see other ancient have been cool to see one that looked more like the giant spider we see in an old Hollow Knight Soul Society was the original name for the it because everyone kept thinking it was a Bleach of the afterlife in that show. I honestly know In his original backer goggles or something. Maybe his bad In an early screenshot of Hollow Knight, we Thankfully this was removed, as Dirtcarvers are The Desolate Dive move was It was also called Tyrant's Fist at one point too. Here we are at the bottom. There are anyone in the Hollow Knight community a few Discord messages in the main Hollow being such a recent game with a pretty large The pantheons in Godhome have these notches to complete them. The main notch gets filled If you finish the pantheon with any of the If you beat the pantheon with all bindings on But there's actually another condition you Hallownest without getting hit, the center of Originally, Team Cherry planned for like Void. But they decided that was going too it basically overrides if you did it made it a separate condition you'd have Gorb is a backer designed character, but the Gorb came from Team Cherry. According to Graig, came from a television show called Tim and Eric a sketch named Gorb. He is the spokesperson for a sends people mannequins of their dead children. every so often to make it seem like their children this means for Gorb in Hollow Knight, but it's There has been a lot of research into There are a lot of words and phrases that goes about creating this bug gibberish. an interview the game's composer, Chris Larkin, Chris: To be honest, I can't remember found a way of generating text and then reading it backwards or something. I'll have to In earlier builds of Hollow Knight, each of the their own files with unique file names. The banner Garz someone we should know about? Is that the bothered me that something clearly captures us in I'm fairly confident that this creature is hiding speculation on my part, and I really hope we get The spitworm is an enemy concept It would have been an infected version of That honestly sounds terrible, so I'm glad Lion Shaman comes from another development map somewhere near where the Stag Nest is in the to be a shaman there. But what is this lion is that the lion village was designed by a top village of antlions, but I'm not quite sure. Twitter a few years back and they did let me The Colosseum Trophy is a cut object that We can actually see how this object There's a scene of the Colosseum still hanging over a much smaller version a pretty early concept for the Colosseum ghostCoins is an unused value stored in the name for Essence, since it's basically The main character in Hollow Knight like little Ghost or little one or little is that the main character should be called a stream they held back on Mixer in 2018, the This name is used as a way to differentiate the purposes. Whether or not this name has any This one is pretty self explanatory. To be fair, I this might be wrong. But then again, hologram And that's the entire iceberg. but hopefully there were some new nuggets of That being said, I need to come clean with the help of a few friends. SteevPoyo96 is But please understand. I really wanted to do or stuff I already talked about before. And talk about this one picture of Team