[AdLib Gold 'Dune' music] If variety is the spice of life then prepare your spice mining classic. Dune, developed by Cryo 1992 for MS-DOS PC and Amiga platforms. "He Who and he who controls the Dune IP controls the game featuring Kyle MacLachlan in a Stillsuit, as out until eight years after its release, Cryo's Lynch film. And by extension the classic 1965 while there were tabletop games by Avalon Hill and for Dune to enter the realm of video games. And base it on the Lynch film, mostly aesthetically. like the Weirding Module, which wasn't in the you can see a pre-release Paul Atreides on the Cooper. But eventually they got the rights to his glad they did! Cuz if there's something I truly everything. The actors, the set design, and the other aspect of the newer movies is superior, but appreciate its sheer Lynchian weirdness! And even and Cryo used it as visual inspiration. Although stellar box art that I prefer over the US release, The Sandworm Box! This 1993 CD-ROM enhancement one of Dune's legendary sandworms, leaping out It's no popcorn bucket, but it'll do. Unsheathing an eye-catching catalog summarizing Virgin's Beneath a Steel Sky, Conspiracy before it was were firing at full blast. Next is a generic help as evidenced by the rather useless mention of the 29-page instruction manual, a welcome bit of but details some of the mid and late game time player. Along with a neat little section the movie, further solidifying its importance to CD-ROM, now with almost 400 megs of data compared But enough of that, the spice must flow and the [ominous FM synth sounds] The game kicks off with a series of logos, using video reimaginings in the CD-ROM edition. The pulled straight from the Lynch movie, featuring exposition as Princess Irulan. Through a screen often used back then. Whatever though, seeing After that spicy intro you're greeted with a showing off the hand drawn pixel art graphics, with the floppy version differing from CD-ROM, assets. For instance, traveling scenes went from flyover video sequences on CD. And that CD version primarily due to its addition of full voice Mm, Dune lore, there's so very, very much of it. any the movies or TV shows or anything, it may on shrooms. And I mean, it is, and that's why we exposition dump right up front that's a lot as the biggest strength of this Dune adaptation is mechanics little by little. Once you actually you arrive on Arrakis, aka Dune, roughly 20,000 perspective of the prince Paul Atreides, son of And thus begins your Dune adventure. very much a graphic adventure game at the the Paul you play here is right in on all the put down your damn fine cup of coffee and go find so you can start making allies and mining spice. too. Or anywhere else for that matter! Dune heck if you're feeling like a doofus desert and wander the planet on foot. A -[Agent Cooper] "Don't plan it, don't Yeah so what you're supposed to do is safely take an ornithopter. Then enjoy a especially if using the AdLib [musical cutscene plays synthetically] Mm yes, apologies to Toto and Brian Eno, the DOS game's FM synth soundtrack is so much more these ornithopters look fantastic, with a than the lumpy metal boxes depicted in the 1984 movie went with 'thopter designs so similar starting off, ornis are your primary method of stops being to a trio of sietches: underground who you need on your side in order to one, the spice must flow, specifically back to And two, the planet is still jam packed with previously capitalized on the planet's resources. to say the least. And due to a slew of twisted odds of survival for you and House Atreides are lore this is a wildly simplified explanation of concerned? It's all you need to know! The Fremen villains, and the emperor is an unavoidable fact since the game has a constantly ticking clock, when things need to be addressed? Work must begin factions through conversation, combat, and fealty. including the Harkonnen Palace itself. Your initial aim is to acquire Fremen workers, being like "sup, I'm Paul" and they're all "aw reasons, your reputation precedes you, and this all you do is wander around talking to traveling in-person to see and what they can do for you. A number of they can actually follow along to provide guidance at once. And Cryo did a great job designing with you at any given time and what to do next, Each Fremen troop can be assigned certain tasks, Stockpiling the Spice Melange is top priority, as receiving things like a longer lifespan and as a currency and is the key to near-instant Once you've employed prospectors to track down assign Fremen as spice miners. Miners gradually harvesters to enhance production further. There map section to prioritize the best deposits. Naturally there are setbacks too, like Harkonnen jerks sabotaging operations, or even sending in Sandworms of course, they're always showing up Carryalls to lift harvesters to safety here, your Ornithopters to act as worm spotters at each mine. first, meaning you have to physically travel to It's not long before the game's hybrid nature role-playing, strategy, and wargaming. Though not eases players into new mechanics at different first being your spicy abilities unlocking over distances through hazy visions. Meaning you no to give orders, you can telepathically tell folks agree to it anyway, some Fremen are more skeptical more abilities like calling sandworms to ride "ehh get outta here kid, go back to Twin Peaks." control people doesn't come into play here. And there are no premonitions of possible futures and as flavor text. Also glossed over are the bits instantly falls head over heels in love with disappears for a big chunk of the game! But that's and dealing with obstacles and learning new the Harkonnen become real dicks once you taking them over and imprisoning workers [Feyd-Rautha speaks with a whiny voice] Oh Sting, man, someone call the police cuz raising armies to fight the Harkonnen is the as fighters instead of miners, and equip them to train them to expert level armies, which off at a sietch of soldiers. Once they're maxed and weirding modules, you can either attack forts Either way with enough skilled, well-armed forces, once you start finding atomics to use. Just wait for signs of victory, there's rarely any want to. Not even Gurney gets involved, behind during a fight. Meaning that you won't see a war charge with his battle pug in-hand. -"Good to see these Harkonnens beaten off!" -"Good to see these Harkonnens beaten off!" Like I said, positive results ensue, and with each recover new equipment, and even interrogate satisfying end game routine, even if Which really brings me to my main complaint with building up resources, allies, equipment, mechanics and quirks. There's something fresh the pacing is great. But once you reach the off the same highly-trained armies, to the same over and over and over. With the only things and miner relocations every so often? Yeah it's grinding to the end where you finally take the concludes. You get maybe two or three hours of and an engaging if truncated Dune story. It hits don't matter to the game, and expertly unfolds pace up perfectly. Until it doesn't, and you're three or four hours with very few curveballs The one remaining feature comes maybe I'm wrong but feels almost entirely eventually reveals a plan to terraform Dune and you can assign Fremen to trap water and or mining. And while I love the idea of trading it really doesn't accomplish much in this and the constant threat of daily violence makes is absolutely a fitting message, considering the I said, I love the idea of this, and the fact through gameplay is fantastic. But in the from pulling resources out of the ground folks. And despite the lack of cat milking and And it's wild to think that it almost didn't Dune video game plans were set in motion. But and legal wranglings over book and adaptation Dino De Laurentiis and his bankrupt company, And Cryo Interactive, despite emerging from Exxos record. Their proposed adventure/strategy game effectively canceled the project, and went onto But folks at Cryo continued working on it anyway, decided to publish Cryo's version of Dune in with both Dune and Dune II in the same year. Which 1992 was a wild year for Dune. And both games were and reviewing well, mostly in the 80-90% range greenlighting multiple console ports, even if the light of day in 1993. They also released Ulrich on disc through Virgin Records, titled this is made up of studio arrangements with a few new tracks. It sounds completely great stuff. This CD release is a real rarity, but remaster in 2024 by Mr. Picq himself. Digital-only Which sums up the game itself, I think! Cryo's PC sound test for me, being a particularly great it's also much more, and having never fully played at that. While it strays from the books quite a of events, I'm okay with it since it serves the that feels unequivocally "DUNE," understandably make a more engaging adventure strategy game spending an afternoon plowing through today, new movies being as awesomely successful as they [Dune soundtrack plays] And if you enjoyed this retrospective, then don't be afraid to check out my others! around for more LGR things always in the