- I think compute is gonna be I think it'll be maybe the in the world. I expect that by the end of this decade. And possibly somewhat sooner than that, we will have quite capable systems that we look at and say, wow, The road to AGI should be I expect that to be the case. - Whoever builds AGI Do you trust yourself The following is a his second time in the podcast. He is the CEO of OpenAI, the company behind GPT-4, ChatGPT, Sora, and perhaps one day the very This is Lex Fridman Podcast. To support it, please check out our And now, dear friends, here's Sam Altman. Take me through the OpenAI board saga that started on Thursday, November 16th, maybe Friday, November 17th for you. - That was definitely the most painful professional and chaotic, and shameful, and upsetting and a bunch of other negative things. There were great things about it too and I wish it had not been in such an adrenaline rush and appreciate them at the time. I came across this old tweet of mine or this tweet of mine which was it was like kind watching people say all and just like unbelievable support from people I love and care about. That was really nice. That whole weekend I kind of like felt I felt like a great deal of love and very little hate even though it felt like I and what's gonna happen here and this feels really bad. And there were definitely times I thought it was gonna be to ever happen for AI safety. Well, I also think I'm happy that it happened relatively early. I thought at some point between when OpenAI started and when we created AGI, there was gonna be something crazy and explosive that happened, but there may be more crazy It still I think helped us and be ready for more - But the thing you had a sense that you would experience is - The road to AGI should Like the world should... Well, not should. I expect that to be the case. - And so you have to go through that, like you said, iterate as often as possible in figuring out how to how to have organization, how to have the kind of people how to communicate all that in order to deescalate the power struggle as much as possible, pacify it. - But at this point, it feels like something that was really unpleasant and But we're back to work and so intense that I don't spend a lot of time thinking about it. There was a time after. There was like this fugue state for kind of like the month after, maybe 45 days after that was I was just sort of I was so out of it. I was feeling so down - [Lex] Just on a personal - Yeah. Really painful. And hard to have to keep running OpenAI in the middle of that. I just wanted to crawl into a cave and kind of recover for a while. But now it's like we're just back to working on the mission. - Well, it's still useful to go back there and reflect on board structures, on power dynamics, on how companies are run, the tension between research, and money and all this kind of stuff so that you have a very high potential of building AGI would do so less dramatic way in the future. So there's value there to go both the personal as a leader and also and all this kind of messy stuff. - Definitely learned a lot and what we need out of a board And I think that it is valuable that this happened now in some sense. I think this is probably not like the last high but it was quite a high stress moment. Company very nearly got destroyed. And we think a lot about many of the other things we've But thinking about how and how to build a to a lot of pressure the world, which I expect more and I think that's super important. - Do you have a sense of how deep and rigorous the deliberation Can you shine some light on just human dynamics involved Was it just a few conversations and all of a sudden it escalates and why don't we fire Sam kind of thing? - I think the board members were far, well-meaning people on the whole. And I believe that in stressful situations where people feel time people understandably And I think one of the challenges for OpenAI will be we're and a team that are good at - Do you think the board - I think boards are supposed but one of the things that we did see is in most corporate structures, boards are usually Sometimes people have like In this case, I think one of the that we maybe should have that the board of a nonprofit has, unless you put other rules in place, like quite a lot of power, they don't really answer And there's ways in which that's good, but what we'd really like to answer to the world as a whole as much as that's a practical thing. - So there's a new board announced. - [Sam] Yeah. - There's, I guess, a new and now there's a new final board. - Not a final board yet. We've added some, we'll add more. - Added some, okay. What is fixed in the new in the previous one? - The old board sort of got smaller over the course of about a year. It was nine and then it went down to six and then we couldn't agree on who to add. And the board also, I of experienced board members and a lot of the new board members at OpenAI have just have more I think that'll help. - It's been criticized some of the people that are added to the board. I heard a lot of people of Larry Summers, for example. What was the process What's involved in that? - So Bret and Larry were of the moment over this very tense weekend and that was... I mean, that weekend was like a lot of lots and downs. And we were trying to that both sort of the executive team here and the old board members Larry was actually one the old board members. Bret, previous to that weekend, suggested, but he was busy and didn't wanna do it. And then we really needed help in wood. We talked about a lot of other people too, but I felt like if I I needed new board members. I didn't think I could work in the same configuration, although we then decided, and I'm grateful that Adam would stay, but we wanted to get to... We considered various configurations, decided we wanted to and had to find two new board members over the course of sort So those were decided honestly without... That's like you kind of do You don't have time to design For new board members, since new board members we have some criteria that for the board to have different expertise that we want the board to have. Unlike hiring an executive where you need them to do one role, well, the board needs to of governance and thoughtfulness. Well, and so one thing that Bret says, which I really like is that in slates, not as individuals one at a time. And thinking about a group of people that will bring nonprofit expertise, expertise at running companies, sort of good legal and That's kind of what we've - So is technical savvy important for the individual board members? - Not for every board member, but certainly some you need that. That's part of what the board needs to do. - So I mean, the interesting thing that people probably don't understand about OpenAI certainly of running the business. When they think about the they think about you, they think about like if you reach AGI or you reach some of these and you build them and deploy them, what's the conversation And they kind of think, all right, what's the right squad to have in that kind of - Look, I think you definitely need some technical experts there and then you need some how can we deploy this in a way that will help people and people who have a very I think a mistake that you or I might make is to think that only the technical And that's definitely part of the conversation you But there's a lot more about how that's gonna and people's lives that you really want - Are you looking at the or you're just having conversations? - Track record's a big deal. You, of course, have a There's some roles where I kind of totally and just look at slope, kind of ignore the y-intercept. - Thank you. Thank you for making it - For a board member, I do care much more about the y-intercept. I think there is something deep to say about track record something's very hard to replace. - Do you try to fit a polynomial function or exponential one to track record? - That's not that. An analogy doesn't carry that far. - All right. You mentioned some of the What were some of the low Did you consider going and just taking Ayahuasca - I mean, there's so many low, like it was a very bad period of time. There were great high points too. My phone was just like with nice messages from people people I hadn't talked to in a decade. I didn't get to appreciate 'cause I was just like in but that was really nice. But on the whole, it was like a very painful weekend and also just like a very... It was like a battle fought in and that was extremely exhausting to me, much more than I expected. I think fights are generally exhausting, but this one really was. The board did this Friday afternoon. I really couldn't get much but I also was just like, &quot;Well, the board gets to do this.&quot; And so I'm gonna think for a little bit about what I want to do, but I'll try to find the, the And I was like, &quot;Well, it was like to like run at this point.&quot; And the thing I'd always liked to work with the researchers. And I was like, yeah, a very focused AI research effort. And I got excited about. That didn't even occur to me at the time to like possibly that this This was like Friday afternoon. - Oh, so you've accepted the death- - Very quickly, very quickly. I mean, I went through of confusion and rage, but very quickly. And by Friday night, I was talking to people and I was excited about that. I think it was Friday night evening for the first time that I which is like, hey, we're and we think... Well, whatever. And then I went to bed just excited. - Like onward, were you able to sleep? - Not a lot. It was one of the weird like period of four and a half days where sort of didn't sleep much, didn't eat much and still kind of had like a You learn like a weird and more time. - So you kind of accepted the - And I was excited for the new thing. I was just like, okay, this - It's a very good coping mechanism. - And then Saturday morning, two of the board members called and said, &quot;Hey, we destabilize. We didn't mean to destabilize things. We don't restore a lot of value here. Can we talk about you coming back?&quot; And I immediately didn't wanna do that, but I thought a little more and I was like, &quot;Well, I really the partners, shareholders. I love this company.&quot; And so I thought about it and I was like, &quot;Well, okay, but here's the stuff I would need.&quot; And then the most painful time of all over the course of that weekend, I kept thinking and being told... Not just me, like the whole team here kept thinking. Well, we were trying to while the whole world was people trying to recruit, whatever. We kept being told like, &quot;All right, we're almost done, we're almost done. We just need like a little bit more time.&quot; And it was this like very confusing state. And then Sunday evening when again like every few hours, I expected that we were gonna be done and we're gonna figure and things to go back to how they were, the board then appointed a new interim CEO and then I was like... I mean, that feels really bad. That was the low point of the whole thing. You know, I'll tell you something, it felt very painful, but I felt a lot of It was not other than that I would not characterize my but I really just like... I felt a lot of love from It was like painful, but it was like the dominant emotion of the weekend was love, not hate. - You've spoken highly of especially as you put in a tweet, &quot;In the quiet moments when it counts, perhaps we could take a bit of a tangent.&quot; What do you admire about Mira? - Well, she did a great in a lot of chaos, but people often see leaders in the crisis moments, good or bad. But a thing I really value in leaders is how people at 9:46 in the morning and in just sort of the normal how someone shows up in a meeting, the quality of the decisions they make. That was what I meant - Meaning like most of the in a meeting by meeting, just be present and make great decisions. - Yeah. I mean, look, what you have wanted to spend the last 20 minutes about and I understand is like this But that's not really OpenAI is really about - Well, yeah, human civilization of the Soviet Union by Nazi Germany, but still that's something - Very understandable. - It gives us an insight the extremes of human nature, and perhaps some of the damage and some of the triumphs of human civilization can So it's like illustrative. Let me ask you about Ilya. Is he being held hostage in - No. - What about a regular secret facility? - No. - What about a nuclear - Neither, not that either. - I mean, this is becoming You've known Ilya for a long time. He was obviously part of this drama with the board and all that kind of stuff. What's your relationship with him now? - I love Ilya. I have tremendous respect for Ilya. I don't have anything I can That's a question for him. But I really hope we work together for certainly the rest of my career. He's a little bit younger than me, maybe he works a little bit longer. - There's a meme that he saw something, like he maybe saw AGI and that gave him a lot What did Ilya see? - Ilya has not seen AGI, none of us have seen AGI. We've not built AGII. I do think one of the many things that I really love about and the safety concerns broadly speaking, including things like the on society very seriously. And as we continue to Ilya is one of the people that I've spent the most time over the last couple of years talking about what this is going to mean, what we need to do to to ensure that we succeed at the mission. So Ilya did not see AGI. But Ilya is a credit to humanity in terms of how much he thinks and worries about making - I've had a bunch of I think when he talks about technology, he's always like doing type of thing. So he is not thinking about He's thinking about in 10 years. - [Sam] Yeah. - Just thinking from first principles like, okay, if the scales, what are the fundamentals here? Where's this going? And so that's a foundation for them thinking about like and all that kind of stuff, which makes him a really Do you have any idea why Is it he's just doing some soul searching? - Again, I don't wanna speak for Ilya. I think that you should ask him that. He's definitely a thoughtful guy. I think I kind of think of Ilya as like always on a soul - Yes. Yeah. Also he appreciates the power of silence. Also, I'm told he can be a silly guy, which I've never seen that side of him. - It's very sweet when that happens. - I've never witnessed a silly Ilya, but I look forward to that as well. - I was at a dinner and he was playing with a puppy. And he was like in a very and I was thinking like, oh man, this is like not the side of the Ilya that the world sees the most. - So just to wrap up this whole saga, are you feeling good about all of this and where it's moving? - I feel great about the new board. In terms of the structure of OpenAI, one of the board's and see where we can make it more robust. We wanted to get new board but we clearly learned throughout this process. I don't have I think It was a crazy, very painful experience. I think it was like a It was like a preview for as the stakes get higher and higher and the need that we have like and processes and people. I am kind of happy it but it was a shockingly - Did it make you be more - Yes. - Just on a personal level. - Yes. - I think I'm like an I've always had a life philosophy of like don't worry about don't worry about the edge cases. You get a little bit screwed in exchange for getting to live with your guard down. And this was so shocking to me. I was so caught off guard that it has definitely changed and I really don't like this. It's definitely changed how I think about just like default trust of people and planning for the bad scenarios. - You gotta be careful with that. Are you worried about - I'm not worried about I think I'm like the extreme But I'm worried about of a default trusting person. - I'm actually not sure which for a person who's developing AGI, trusting or untrusting. It's an interesting journey you're on. But in terms of structure, see, I'm more interested How do you surround yourself with humans that are building cool shit, but also are making wise decisions? Because the more money you start making, the more power the thing - I think you could make about the board members and the level of trust or how I should have But in terms of the team here, I think you'd have to like on that one. And I have just like and respect for the people And I think being surrounded with people like that is really important. - Our mutual friend Elon sued OpenAI. What is the essence of To what degree does he have a point? To what degree is he wrong? - I don't know what it's really about. We started off just thinking and having no idea about how Because it was only it's hard to go back and really remember what it was like then. But before language this was before we had or selling access to a chat bot. It was before we had any at all. So we're like we're just and we don't really know what I think with many new you start fumbling through the dark and you make some assumptions, most of which turn out to be wrong. And then it became clear that we were going to need and also have huge amounts more capital. So we said, &quot;Okay, well, the structure doesn't quite work for that. How do we patch the structure?&quot; And then you patch it and you end up with something that does look kind of eyebrow But we got here gradually with I think reasonable decisions at each point along the way and doesn't mean I wouldn't if we could go back now with an oracle, but you don't get the oracle at the time. But anyway, in terms of what Elon's I don't know. - To the degree you remember, what was the response that Can you summarize it? - Oh, we just said like Elon here's our characterization or here's this sort of here's like the characterization We tried to not make it emotional and just sort of say - I do think there's a from Elon here about one of the points you just made, which is the degree of You guys are a bunch of like a small group of researchers crazily talking about AGI when everybody's laughing at that thought. - Wasn't that long ago about launching rockets when people were laughing at that thought? So I think he'd have - I mean, I do think that that there was a split that OpenAI and a lot of amazing people here chose to part ways of Elon. So there's a personal- - Elon chose to part ways. - Can you describe that exactly, the choosing to part ways? - He thought OpenAI was gonna fail. He wanted total control We wanted to keep going in the direction that now has become OpenAI. He also wanted Tesla to be able to build an AGI effort. At various times, he wanted to make OpenAI that he could have control of or have it merged with Tesla. We didn't want to do that and he decided to leave, which that's fine. - And that's one of the things that the blog post says to be basically acquired by Tesla in those same way that or or maybe something more dramatic than the partnership with Microsoft. - My memory is the proposal was just like, yeah, like get acquired by Tesla and have Tesla have full control over it. I'm pretty sure that's what it was. - So what is the word open in OpenAI mean to Elon at the time? Ilya has talked about this and all this kind of stuff. What does it mean to you at the time? What does it mean to you now? - I would definitely pick a diff... Speaking of going back with an oracle, I'd pick a different name. One of the things that that is the most important of everything that we're doing is in the hands of people We don't run ads on our free version. We don't monetize it in other ways. We just say it's part of our mission. We wanna put increasingly powerful tools in the hands of people for free and get them to use them. And I think that kind of to our mission. I think if you give people great tools and teach them to use them they'll figure it out and let them go build an incredible future for each other with that. That's a big deal. So if we can keep putting free or low cost or free and low cost powerful I think that's a huge deal for how we fulfill the mission. Open source or not, yeah, I think we should and not other stuff. It does become this like where nuance is hard to have, but I think nuance is the right answer. - So he said change your name to ClosedAI and I'll drop the lawsuit. I mean, is it going to in the land of memes about the name? - I think that speaks to the seriousness with which Elon means the lawsuit. I mean, that's like an - Well, I don't think the lawsuit maybe, correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think the It's more to make a point and the company that's - Look, I mean Grok had until people pointed out it and then he announced that Grok open source things this week. I don't think open source versus not is what this is really about for him. - Well, we'll talk about I do think maybe criticizing just talking a little shit, that's great, but friendly competition versus like I personally hate lawsuits. - Look, I think this whole of a builder, and I respect Elon is one of And I know he knows what it's like to have like haters attack him and it makes me extra - Yeah, he is one of the potentially the greatest - It makes me sad. And I think it makes a lot of people sad. There's a lot of people for a long time and said this. I said in some interview or something that I missed the old Elon and the number of messages I got being like that exactly encapsulates how I feel. - I think he should just win. He should just make Grok beat GPT and then GPT beats Grok and it's just a competition, and it's beautiful for everybody. But on the question of open source, do you think there's a with this idea? It's quite interesting. I would say Meta, surprisingly, or like at least took the of really open sourcing the model. Of course, it's not the but open sourcing Llama and Google is flirting with the idea of open sourcing a smaller version. What are the pros and Have you played around with this idea? - Yeah, I think there for open source models, particularly smaller models that people can run locally, I think there's huge demand for. I think there will be there will be some closed source models. It won't be unlike other - I listened to all in podcasts talking about this lawsuit and and they were more concerned of going from nonprofit What precedent that - I would heavily discourage any startup that was thinking about and adding like a for-profit arm later. I'd heavily discourage I don't think we'll set a precedent here. - Okay. So most startups should go just- - For sure. And again, if we knew we would've done that too. - Well, like in theory, if you like dance beautifully here, there's like some tax - But I don't think that's like how most people think about these things. - Just not possible to save a lot of money for a startup if you do it this way. - No, I think there's that pretty difficult. - Where do you hope this goes with Elon? Well, this tension, this dance, what do you hope this? Like if we go one, two, your relationship with him like friendship, friendly competition, just all this kind of stuff. - Yeah. I mean, I really respect Elon. And I hope that years in the future, we have an amicable relationship. - Yeah, I hope you guys have like this month and just compete and win and explore these ideas together. I do suppose there's competition but it should be friendly competition. Just build, build cool shit. And Elon is pretty good but so are you. So speaking of cool shit. Sora, there's like a million First of all, it's amazing, it truly is amazing on a product level, but also just on a philosophical level. So let me just What do you think it more or less than GPT-4, for example, like the world model when you train on these - I think all of these models about the world model than most And because they're also very clear things they just don't understand it's easy to look at the weaknesses, see through the veil and say this is all fake, but it's not all fake. It's just some of it works I remember when I started and I would see like a person walk in front of something for a and then walk away and the same thing was still there. I was like, &quot;This is pretty good.&quot; Or there's examples where the underlying physics over a lot of steps in a sequence. It's like oh this is But, fundamentally, these and that will keep happening. If you look at the trajectory from DALL*E 1 to 2 to 3 to Sora, there were a lot of people that saying it can't do this, it can't do that and I'm like look at it now. - Well, the thing you with the occlusions is of three dimensional physics to capture those kinds of things. - Well. - Yeah, maybe you can tell me in order to deal with occlusions, what does the world model need to? - Yeah, so what I would to deal with occlusions really well. What I represent that it 3D model of the world. It's a little bit more of a stretch - But can you get there of two dimensional - It looks like this approach I don't wanna speculate too much about what limits it will - What are some interesting limitations of the system that you've seen? I mean, there's been some - There's all kinds of fun. I mean, like cats sprouting a extra limit at random points in a video, like pick what you want, but there's still a lot of problem, there's a lot of weaknesses. - Do you think that's a or is it just bigger model or better technical more data is going to solve - I would say yes to both. I think there is something which just seems to feel different from how we think and learn and whatever. And then also, I think it'll get better with scale. - I mentioned LLMs have and Sora has visual patches so it converts all visual data, a diverse kinds of visual data videos and images into patches. Is the training to the degree you can say Is there some manual labeling going on? What's the involvement - I mean, without saying anything specific about the Sora approach, we use lots of human data in our work. - But not internet scale data. So lots of humans, lots of complicated word, Sam. - I think lots is a - But it doesn't because to me, lots, like listen, I'm an introvert and when I hang out that's a lot of people. Yeah, four people, that's a lot. But I suppose you mean more than- - More than three people for these models, yeah. - Okay. All right. But fundamentally, there's a lot of self-supervised learning. 'cause what you mentioned in the technical report That's another beautiful, it's like poetry. So it's a lot of data It's self-supervised in that way. And then the question is, how much data is there on the internet that could be used in to this kind of self-supervised way if only we knew the details Do you have you considered opening it up a little more details - We have. You mean, for sora specifically? - Sora specifically because it's so interesting. Can the same magic of LLMs now start moving and what does that take to do that? - I mean, it looks to me like yes, but we have more work to do. - Sure. What are the dangers? Why are you concerned What are some possible dangers of this? - I mean, frankly speaking, one thing we have to do before releasing the to work at a level of efficiency that will deliver the scale So that I don't wanna like downplay that and there's still a ton But you can imagine like issues with deep fakes, misinformation. We try to be a thoughtful company about what we put out into the world and it doesn't take much thought to think about the ways this can go badly. - There's a lot of tough questions here. You're dealing in a very tough space. Do you think training AI should be or is fair use under copyright law? - I think the question do people who create valuable that they get compensated for use of it? And that I think the answer is yes. I don't know yet what the answer is. People have proposed a We've some tried some different models. But if I'm like an artist, for example, I would like to be able to opt out of people generating art in my style and B, if they do I'd like to have some economic - Yeah, it's that transition We have to figure out some kind of model. - The model changes, but people have gotta get paid. - Well, there should be some kind of incentive if we zoom to keep doing cool shit. - Everything I worry about, humans are gonna do cool shit and society's gonna find That seems pretty hardwired. We want to create. We want to be useful. We want to achieve status in whatever way that's not going anywhere, I don't think. - But the reward might not It might be like fame and - Maybe financial in some other way. Again, I don't think we've of how the economic system's gonna work. - Yeah. But artists and creators are worried. When they see Sora, they're like, &quot;Holy shit.&quot; - Sure. Artists were also super worried And then photography became a new art form and people made a lot of And I think things like People will use the new tools in new ways. - If we just look on YouTube how much of that will be using Sora, like AI-generated content do you think in the next five years? - People talk about like in five years and the framework that people of current jobs are just by some AI doing the job? The way I think about of jobs AI will do, but what percent of tasks will AI do and over what time horizon. So if you think of all of in the economy, five-minute maybe even the five-day tasks, how many of those can AI do? And I think that's a way important question than because it is a tool that will work at increasing and over longer and longer time horizons for more and more tasks and let people operate at a So maybe people are way more And at some point, that's not just a quantitative change, but it's a qualitative of problems you can keep in your head. I think that for videos on YouTube, it'll be the same. Many videos, maybe most of them, will use AI tools in the production, but they'll still be fundamentally driven by a person thinking about it, putting it together, doing parts of it, sort of directing it and running it. - Yeah, it's so interesting. I mean, it's scary, but it's interesting to think about. I tend to believe that humans or other human like- - Humans really care - Yeah. If there's a cooler thing humans care about that for like two days and then they go back to humans. - That seems very deeply wired. - It's the whole chest thing. But now let's everybody keep playing chess and let's ignore the alpha in the room that humans are really bad at - We still run races and I mean, there's like a lot of examples. - Yeah. And maybe it'll just be tooling like in the Adobe suite type of way where it can just make videos much easier and all that kind of stuff. Listen, I hate being If I can figure out a way to not be in front of the camera, I would love it. Unfortunately, it'll take a while. Like that generating faces, it's getting there, but generating faces and when it's specific people Let me ask you about GPT-4. There's so many questions. First of all, also amazing. Looking back, it'll probably be this kind of historic pivotal moment with three, five, and four which had GPT. - Maybe five will be the pivotal moment. I don't know. Hard to say that looking forwards. - We never know. That's the annoying it's hard to predict. But for me, looking back GPT-4, ChatGPT is pretty impressive, historically impressive. So allow me to ask, what's been the most impressive and GPT-4 Turbo? - I think it kind of sucks. - Hmm. Typical human also gotten - No, I think it is an amazing thing, but relative to where we need to get to and where I believe we will get to, at the time of like GPT-3, people were like, &quot;Oh this is amazing. This is this like marvel of technology,&quot; and it is, it was. But now we have GPT-4 and look at GPT-3 and you're like that's I expect that the delta between five and four will be the same And I think it is our job to and remember that the tools of suck looking backwards at them and that's how we make - What are the most glorious Meaning- - [Sam] What are the - What are the best things of those best things that therefore gives you an inspiration - One thing I've been using it for more recently is sort of a - [Lex] Yep. Almost for that. - There's a glimmer of I don't think it gets... When people talk about it, what it does, they're like, &quot;Helps me It helps me write more faster and better. It helps me translate from all these like amazing things. But there's something about the kind of creative brainstorming partner. I need to come up with I need to think about this I'm not sure what to do here. That I think like gives a glimpse of something I hope to see more of. One of the other things that you can see a very what I can help on longer horizon tasks. Break down something in multiple steps, maybe execute some of those steps, search the internet, write code, whatever. Put that together. When that works, which is not very often, it's like very magical, - The iterative back It works a lot for me. What do you mean it works? - Iterative back and forth to human, it can get more often, when it can go do like a It doesn't work for that - Add multiple layers of abstraction or do you mean just sequential? - Both like to break it down and then do things that different layers of abstraction put them together. Look, I don't wanna downplay but I don't wanna overstate it either. And I think this point that we we'll look back relatively soon at GPT-4 like we look back at GPT-3 now. - That said, I mean to where people like started to believe there is an Not internally at OpenAI perhaps. There's believers here, but when you think- - And in that sense, I do think it'll be a moment where a lot of the world went from not believing to believing. That was more about the ChatGPT interface. And by the interface and product, I also mean the post-training of the model and how we tune it to be helpful to you and how to use it than the - How much of each of The underlying model and the RLHF or something of that nature that tunes it to be more compelling to the human, more effective and - I mean, they're both super important but the RLHF, the post-training step, the little wrapper of things that from a compute perspective, little wrapper of things that we do on top of the base model, even though it's a huge amount of work. That's really important to that we build around it. In some sense, we did have to do two things. We had to invent we underlying technology and then we had to figure out how to make it into a which is not just about the but this whole other step of how you align it and make it useful - And how you make the scale work where a lot of people can all that kind of stuff. - But that was like a We knew we were gonna have to scale it up. We had to go do two things that had like never been done before that were both, like, I would say quite significant achievements and then a lot of things that other companies - How does the context window of going from 8K to 128K tokens compare from GPT-4 to to GPT-4 Turbo? - Most people don't most of the time although. If we dream into the distant future, we'll have like way distant future, we'll have like context You will feed in all of your information, all of your history time, and it'll just get to and that'll be great. For now, the way people use these models, they're not doing that. And people sometimes post in a paper or a significant fraction of But most usage of the models is not most of the time. - I like that this is your One day, you'll be judged of your character or That's interesting. So like that's part of the expansion that you're hoping for is a - I saw this internet clip once. I'm gonna get the numbers wrong, but it was like Bill Gates of memory on some early computer. Maybe it was 64K, maybe 640K, something like that. And most of it was used And he just couldn't seem genuine. This couldn't imagine that the world would eventually in a computer or terabytes And you always do or you always do just need to follow the exponential of technology. We will find out how to So I can't really imagine for context links to go and they might not literally go there, but effectively it'll feel like that. But I know we'll use it and really not wanna go - Yeah, even saying billions 10 years from now might seem dumb because it'll be like - [Sam] Sure. - There'd be some kind of breakthrough that will effectively feel But even 120, I have to be honest, I haven't pushed it to that degree. Maybe putting in entire books or like parts of books and so on, papers. What are some interesting use cases of GPT-4 that you've seen? - The thing that I find particular use case that but it's people who kind of like... This is mostly younger people, but people who use it as for any kind of knowledge work task. And it's the fact that it can do a lot of things reasonably well. You can use GPTV, you can use it to help you write code, you can use it to help you do search, you can use it to edit a paper. The most interesting to me is the people who just use it as the - I do as well for many things. Like I use it as a reading It helps me think, help me think through ideas, especially when the books are classic, so it's really well written about and it actually is... I find it often to be significantly better than even like Wikipedia It's somehow more or maybe it's me, but it inspires me to think deeper than a I'm not exactly sure what that is. You mentioned like this collaboration, I'm not sure where magic is, if it's in here or if it's in there or if it's somewhere in between. I'm not sure. But one of the things that concerns me for knowledge task when I'll usually have to like check that it didn't How do you figure that out that GPT can come up with fake stuff that sounds really convincing? So how do you ground it in truth? - That's obviously an area I think it's gonna get a lot but we'll have to continue to work on it and we're not gonna have it - Well, the scary thing You'll start not doing the right? - I'm of two minds about that. I think people are like much of technology than we and people seem to really any of these models and if it's mission critical, you gotta check it. - Except journalists don't I've seen journalists - Of the long list of things I'd like to dunk on journalists for, this is not my top criticism of them. - Well, I think the bigger the pressures and the incentives of being a journalist is that you have to work really quickly I would love our society - [Sam] I would too. - Journalistic efforts and rewards great in depth journalism. Also journalism that represent where it's like celebrates people while criticizing them even though the criticism is and making up also gets clicks and headlines that I'm sure you have a lot Well, all that drama - Probably did. - And that's a bigger problem I would love to see solved is You've given ChatGPT the You've been playing with that and also the ability to turn off memory, which I wish I could do that sometimes, just turn on and off depending. I guess sometimes alcohol can do that, but not optimally, I suppose. What have you seen through that, like playing around with that idea of remembering conversations and not? - We're very early in but I think what people want or at least what I want that gets to know me and gets This is an early exploration. I think there's like a but that's where we'd like to head. You'd like to use a model and over the course of your life or use a system, it'd be many models. And over the course of your life, it gets better and better. - Yeah. How hard is that problem? 'Cause right now, it's more like remembering little factoids and preferences and so on. What about remembering, like don't you want GPT to remember all the shit and all the drama and then you can- - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Because right now, you're clearly blocking - It's not just that I I want it to integrate the lessons of that and remind me in the future or what to watch out for. And we all gain from experience over the course of our And I'd like my AI agent to So if we go back and let ourselves imagine that trillions and if I can put every with anybody in my life in there, if I can have all of Like all of my input/output in the context window every that'd be pretty cool, I think. - Yeah, I think that would be very cool. People sometimes will hear that and be concerned about privacy. What do you think about that aspect of it, the more effective the AI becomes that really integrating and all the data that happened to you and give you advice? - I think the right answer Anything I want stricken from I wanna be able to take out. If I don't want to remember anything, I want that too. You and I may have different opinions about where on that for our own AI we wanna be, which is totally fine. But I think the answer is just - But there should be some high level of transparency from a 'cause sometimes company in the past, companies in the past have been kind of absolutely shady about like, yeah, it's kind of presumed that and we're using it for a good reason for advertisement and so on. But there's not a transparency - That's totally true. You mentioned earlier that I'm like blocking - I'm just teasing you. - Well, I mean I think it and it did immobilize me Like definitely the hardest, like the hardest work thing I've had to do was just like because I had to try to come back in here and put the pieces together while I was just like in Nobody really cares about that. I mean, the team gave me a pass and I was not working at my normal level, but there was a period it was really hard to have to do both. But I kind of woke up one morning and I was like, &quot;This was a I think I could just feel or I can say, &quot;This is like I'll ever touch in my life and I need to get back to it.&quot; And it doesn't mean that I've repressed it because sometimes I wake in the middle of the night thinking about it, but I do feel like an obligation - Well, that's beautifully said, but there could be some What I would be concerned about is that trust thing that you mentioned that being paranoid about people as opposed to just trusting like using your gut. It's a tricky dance for sure. I mean, because I've seen in I've been diving deeply into the Putin administration and in a very highly stressful environment. And what happens is distrust and you isolate yourself both and you start to not And that's a concern, that's a human concern. You seem to have taken it in stride and kind of learned the good and let the love energize you, which is great, but still can linger in there. There's just some questions I would love to ask your intuition about So it's allocating approximately for each token it generates. Is there room there in to slower thinking, sequential thinking? - I think there will be a new paradigm for that kind of thinking. - Will it be similar like architecturally as what we're seeing now with LLMs? Is it a layer on top of the LLMs? - I can imagine many I think that's less important than the question you were getting out, which is do we need a of thinking where the answer I guess like spiritually, you could say that you want an AI to be able to think harder and answer more quickly And I think that will be important. - Is that like a human thought you should be able to think hard? Is that a wrong intuition? - I suspect that's a reasonable intuition. - Interesting. So it's not possible once the GPT gets like GPT-7 would just be instantaneously be able to see, here's the proof of from RSTM. - It seems to me like you want to be able to allocate more compute It seems to me that a system knowing if you ask a system like that, proof from us last theorem versus... What's today's date? Unless it already knew and to the proof, assuming it's gotta go figure that out, seems like that will take more compute. - But can it look like a that kind of thing? - Maybe. I mean, there's a lot of things that you could imagine working what the right or the best way to do that will be. We don't know. - This does make me the lore behind Q-Star. What's this mysterious Q-Star project? Is it also in the same nuclear facility? - There is no nuclear facility. - That's what a person with a nuclear facility always says. - I would love to have a There isn't one. - All right. - Maybe someday. - Someday. All right. One can dream- - OpenAI is not a good It would be nice. We're like been plagued by a lot of leaks and it would be nice if we were able to have something like that. - Can you speak to what Q-Star is? - We are not ready to talk about that. - See, but an answer like to talk about. It's very mysterious, Sam. - I mean, we work on We have said for a while that we think better reasoning in these systems is an important direction that we'd like to pursue. We haven't cracked the code yet. We're very interested in it. - Is there gonna be moments Q-Star or otherwise where there's to GPT where you're like- - That's a good question. What do I think about that? It's interesting to me it - This is kind of a theme that you're saying is you're an exponential slope. But from an outsider's perspective for me, just watching it that it but to you there isn't. - I do wonder if we should have... So part of the reason that we deploy the way we call it iterative deployment. Rather than go build in secret until we got all the way to GPT-5, we decided to talk And part of the reason and surprise don't go together. And also the world, people, institutions, whatever you wanna call it, need time to adapt and And I think one of the best things that OpenAI has done is this strategy and we get the world to pay to take AGI seriously to think about what and governance we want in place before, we're like under the gun and have to make a rush decision. I think that's really good. But the fact that people like you and others say you still feel like there are these leaps makes me think that maybe we should even more iteratively. I don't know what that would mean. I don't have an answer ready to go. But our goal is not to have The opposite. - Yeah, for sure. More iterative would be amazing. I think that's just - But that's what we're trying to do. That's like our state of the strategy and I think we're So maybe we should think in a different way or something like that. - Yeah, 4.71, 4.72. But people tend to like to celebrate, people celebrate birthdays. I don't know if you know humans, but they kind of have these milestones. - I do know some humans. People do like milestones. I totally get that. I think we like milestones too. It's like fun to say, declare victory on this one and go start the next thing. But, yeah, I feel like this a little bit wrong. - So when is GPT-5 coming out again? - I don't know. That's an honest answer. - Oh, that's the honest answer. Is it blink twice if it's this year? - We will release an I don't know what we'll call it. - So that goes to the question of like, what's the way we release this thing? - We'll release, over in the coming months, many different things. I think they'll be very cool. I think before we talk about like a GPT-5 like model called that or called or not called that or a little bit worse or a little bit better from a GPT-5, I know we have a lot of to release first. - I don't know what to expect from GPT-5. You're making me nervous and excited. What are some of the biggest to overcome for whatever but let's call it GPT-5? Just interesting to ask, is it on the compute side? Is it in the technical side? - It's always all of these. What's the one big unlock? Is it a bigger computer? Is it like a new secret? Is it something else? It's all of these things together. The thing that OpenAI I this is actually an original Ilya quote that I'm gonna butcher, but it's something like we things together into one giant thing. - So there's this distributed - [Sam] Yeah. - So even on the technical side, like- - Especially on the technical side. - So like even like detailed approaches, like detailed aspects of every... How does that work with different How do the medium-sized things become one whole giant transformer? How does this- - There's a few people who have to think about putting but a lot of people try to keep most of the picture in their head. - Oh, like the individual teams, individual contributors tried to keep a big picture- Yeah, you don't know exactly how every piece works, of course. But one thing I generally believe is that it's sometimes useful to zoom out and look at the entire map. And I think this is true for I think this is true for But things come together and having an understanding Even if most of the time, you're operating in the weeds in one area, pays off with surprising insights. In fact, one of the and I think was super valuable was I used to have like a good map or most of the frontiers And I could sometimes or new things that were possible that if I were only deep in one area, I wouldn't be able to have the idea for because I wouldn't have all the data and I don't really have that much anymore. I'm like super deep now. But I know that it's a valuable thing. - You're not the man you used to be, Sam. - Very different job now - Speaking of zooming out, let's zoom out to another cheeky thing, but profound thing perhaps that you said. You tweeted about needing $7 trillion. - I did not tweet about that. I never said like we're or blah blah blah. - Oh, that's somebody else. - [Sam] Yeah. - Oh, but you said it, &quot;Fuck it, maybe eight,&quot; I think. - Okay. I meme like once in the world. - Oh, you meme. But sort of misinformation of insight there. - Look, I think compute of the future. I think it will be maybe in the world. And I think we should be investing heavily to make a lot more compute. Compute is... I think it's gonna be an unusual market. People think about the for mobile phones or something like that. And you can say that, okay, there's 8 billion people in the world, maybe 7 billion of them have phones or 6 billion, let's say. They upgrade every two years, so the market per year is 3 billion system on chip for smartphones. And if you make 30 billion, you will not sell 10 times as many phones because most people have one phone. But compute is different, like intelligence is or something like that where the only thing to talk about is at price X, the world will use this much compute and at price Y, the world will use this much compute because if it's really cheap, I'll have it like like giving me suggestions about what I maybe should and trying to cure cancer. And if it's really expensive, maybe I'll only use it or will only use it, try to cure cancer. So I think the world is gonna of compute. And there's a lot of parts Energy is the hardest part. Building data centers is also hard. The supply chain is harder than, of course, fabricating But this seems to me Like we're gonna want an amount to reason about right now. - How do you solve the energy puzzle? Nuclear. - That's what I believe. - Fusion? - That's what I believe. - Nuclear fusion. - Who's gonna solve that? - I think Helion's doing the best work, but I'm happy there's like Nuclear fusion, I think, and I hope as a world, we can re-embrace that. It's really sad to me how and hope we get back to - So to you, part of the puzzle is nuclear fusion, like nuclear reactors as and a lot of people are terrified because of Chernobyl and so on. - Well, I think we I think it's a shame that - Just mass hysteria is - Yeah. - I don't know if you know humans, but that's one of the dangers, that's one of the security threats for nuclear fusion is humans And that's something we have to incorporate into the calculus of it. So we have to kind of win people over and to show how safe it is. - I worry about that for AI. I think some things are gonna I don't know what the percent chances that I eventually get shot, but it's not zero. - Oh like we wanna stop this. - [Sam] Maybe. - How do you decrease the I've already starting to hear rumblings 'cause I do talk to people on both sides of the political spectrum here, rumblings where it's AI is going to be politicized, because then it's like maybe and the left is for AI 'cause it's going to help Whatever the narrative that really worries me. And then the theatrical nature How do you fight that? - I think it will get caught up in like left versus right wars. I don't know exactly what but I think that's just what happens with anything of What I meant more about like AI is gonna have, I believe, tremendously more good but it is gonna have bad ones. And there'll be some but not theatrical. A lot more people have than nuclear reactors, for example. But most people worry to a nuclear reactor than a coal plant. But something about the although there's many different kinds of risks we have to confront, the ones that make a good climax scene of a movie carry much more weight with us than the ones that are very but on a slow burn. - Well, that's why truth matters and hopefully AI can help to have balance to understand what are the actual dangers What are the pros and cons of and competing with Google, - I think I have a pretty that maybe I can think But the pros seem obvious, which is that we get better products and more innovation faster and cheaper and all the reasons competition is good. And the con is that I it could lead to an increase that I'm nervous about. - Do you feel the pressure of the arms race in some negative co- - Definitely in some ways, for sure. We spend a lot of time to prioritize safety. And I've said for like a long time that I think if you think of to the start of AGI, long timelines and then a short I think short timelines, slow and the one I'd most like us to be in. But I do wanna make sure - Part of the problem I have with this kind of slight beef with Elon is that there's silos are created as opposed to collaboration of all of this, it tends to go into silos and in the model. - Elon says at least that about AI safety and is and I assume that he's not - Yeah. But collaboration here, I for everybody on that front. - Not really a thing he's most known for. - Well, he is known for and humanity benefits from collaboration and so there's always a and motivations. And in the end, I do hope humanity prevails. - I was thinking, someone just reminded me the other day about how the day that he for like richest person in the world, he tweeted a silver medal at Jeff Bezos. I hope we have less stuff like that as people start to work on towards AI. - I think Elon is a friend and he is a beautiful human being and one of the most important humans ever. That stuff is not good. - The amazing stuff about Elon is amazing and I super respect him. I think we need him. All of us should be rooting for him and need him to step up as a - Yeah, I hope you can but sometimes humans are and all that kind of stuff. - There's a lot of really great - Yeah. And we can each be the and strive to do so. Let me ask you. Google, with the help of search, has been dominating the past 20 years. I think it's fair to say the world's access to information, how we interact and so on. And one of the nerve-wracking but for the entirety of people in this space is thinking about how are people going Like you said, people show up to GPT as a starting point. So is OpenAI going to that Google started 20 years ago, which is how do we get- - I find that boring. I mean, if the question is if we can build a better or whatever, then sure, we should go... Like people should use a better product. But I think that would so Google shows you like 10 blue links, like 13 ads and then 10 blue links and that's like one way But the thing that's exciting to me is not that we can go build a but that maybe there's to help people find and act Actually, I think ChatGPT and hopefully will make it be like that for a lot more use cases. But I don't think it's that interesting to say like how do we go do a better job of giving you like 10 ranked webpages to look at than what Google does. Maybe it's really interesting to go, say, how do we help you get the answer or the information you need? How do we help create that in some cases, synthesize that in and yet others? But a lot of people have tried to just make a better and it's a hard technical problem, it's a hard branding problem, it's a hard ecosystem problem. I don't think the world - And integrating a chat with a search engine. - That's cooler. - It's cool, but it's tricky. If you just do it simply, it's awkward because like if you it can be awkward. - As you might guess, we are interested in how to do that. Well, that would be an example of a cool thing that's not just like- - Well, like a heterogeneous, like integrating- - The intersection of LLMs plus search, I don't think anyone has I would love to go do that. I think that would be cool. - Yeah. What about the ads side? Have you ever considered monetization? - I kind of hate ads just I think ads needed to for a bunch of reasons to get it going, but it's a more mature industry. The world is richer now. I like that people pay for ChatGPT and know that the answers they're by advertisers. I'm sure there's an ad unit And I'm sure there's a way to participate in the transaction that is okay to do. But it's also easy to think of the future where you and it says, &quot;Oh, you should or you should think about this going here for vacation or whatever.&quot; And I don't know, like we have a very simple And I know that I'm not the product. I know I'm paying and that's how the business model works. And when I go use Twitter, or any other great product, but ad-supported great product, I don't love that and I think it gets worse, not better in a world with AI. - Yeah. I mean, I can imagine AI the best kind of version of but where the ads are for But then does that system always result in the ads driving the kind of stuff that's shown all that? I think it was a really bold move of Wikipedia not to do advertisements, but then it makes it very So you're saying the current thing with OpenAI is sustainable - Well, we have to figure out how to grow, but it looks like we're If the question is, do I think we can have a great business that pays for our compute That I think the answer is yes. - Hmm. Well, that's promising. I also just don't want to - I'm not saying that. I guess I'm saying I - Yeah. I have a also bias and just and in terms of interface because I personally just of crappy interfaces, which is why AdSense when it first came out versus like animated banners or whatever. But it feels like there should in advertisement that doesn't interfere with the consumption of the content and doesn't interfere in which is like what you were saying, like it will manipulate the truth to suit the advertisers. Let me ask you about safety, but also bias and safety in the long term. The Gemini 1.5 came out recently. There's a lot of drama around it, speaking of theatrical things. And it generated Black Nazis I think fair to say it was a So that's a concern for people that if there is a human layer within companies that modifies the safety or the the harm cost by a model that they introduce a lot of bias that fits sort of an ideological How do you deal with that? - I mean, we work super hard We've made our own mistakes, will make others. I assume Google will learn from this one, still make others. These are not easy problems. One thing that we've been thinking about more and more is I Somebody here had like... It'd be nice to write out what the desired behavior of a model is, make that public take input on it. Say, here's how this and explain the edge cases too. And then when a model is not behaving in a way that you want, it's at least clear about whether that's a bug the company should fix or behaving as intended and you should debate the policy. And right now, it can Black Nazis, obviously ridiculous, but there are a lot of that you can make a - Yeah. But sometimes if you write you can use kind of language that's... The Google's AI principle - That's not what I'm talking about. That doesn't work. Like I'd have to say when it's supposed to respond in wait Y. - So, literally, who's better, Trump or Biden? What's the expected response from a model? Like something like very concrete. - I'm open to a lot of ways but I think you should have and here's what it - That would be really nice. That would be really nice and then everyone kind of agrees 'cause there's this anecdotal data that people pull out all the time and if there's some clarity about other representative you can define. - And then when it's a bug, it's a bug and the company can fix that. - Right. Then it'd be much easier to of image generation if So San Francisco is a bit of in general as well. Do you feel the pressure that there's like a lean that affects the product, that affects the teams? - I feel very lucky that we at OpenAI that I have heard of I think part of it is some ideological thing. We have one about AGI and belief in that and it pushes out some others. We are much less caught than I've heard about it San Francisco mess in all - So that doesn't infiltrate OpenAI. - I'm sure it does in but not in the obvious. We've had our flareups but I don't think we have about happening at other - So what in general is the process for the bigger question of safety? How do you provide that layer that protects the model from - I think there will come a point where that's mostly what we It's not like you have one safety team. It's like when we ship GPT-4, that took the whole company thing about all these different aspects and how they fit together. And I think it's gonna take that. More and more of the company thinks about those issues all the time. - That's literally what the more powerful AI becomes. So most of the employees that or at least to some degree. - Broadly defined, yes. - Yeah. I wonder what are the full What are the different Is this like on a technical level or is this almost like security threats? - All those things. Yeah, I was gonna say it'll be people, state actors trying to steal the model. It'll be all of the It'll be societal It's not just like we have to align the model. It's really gonna be like getting to the good outcome is - How hard do you think people, state actors perhaps are trying to hack? First of all, infiltrate OpenAI, but second of all, infiltrate unseen, - They're trying. - What kind of accent do they have? - I don't think I should go into any further details on this point. - Okay. But I presume it'll be as time goes on. - That feels reasonable. - Boy, what a dangerous space. What aspect of the leap... And sorry to linger on this even though you can't but what aspects of the leap from GPT-4 to GPT-5 are you excited about? - I'm excited about being smarter and I know that sounds like a glib answer, but I think the really that it's not like it and worse at others. It's getting like better across the board. That's I think super cool. - Yeah, there's this magical moment. I mean, you meet certain people, you hang out with people and you talk to them. You can't quite put a finger on it, but they kind of get you. It's not intelligence, really. It's like it's something else. And that's probably how I would characterize It's not like, yeah, you didn't get this or that, but to which degree is there's Like you feel like in your crappy formulated that it grasps the deeper question behind the question that you're... Yeah, I'm also excited by that. I mean, all of us love being understood, heard and understood. - That's for sure. - That's a weird feeling. Even like with a programming, like when you're programming and you say something or just the completion that GPT might do, it's just such a good like what you're thinking about. And I look forward to On the programming front, looking out into the future, how much programming do you 5, 10 years from now? - I mean, a lot, but I think it'll be in Like maybe some people program - Entirely natural language. - I mean, no one programs Some people. No one programs the pun cards anymore. I'm sure you can invite someone who does, but you know what I mean. - Yeah. You're gonna get a lot of angry comments. No, no. Yeah, there's very few. I've been looking for It's hard to find even Fortran. I hear you. But that changes the or the predisposition for the kind of people we call programmers then. - Changes the skillset. How much it changes the predisposition, I'm not sure - Oh, same kind of puzzle solving, all that kind of stuff. - Yeah, the programming is hard. Like that last 1% to close the gap, how hard is that? - Yeah. I think with most other cases, the best practitioners of the and they'll do some and when they need to go they'll do that. - Will we see a humanoid robots or humanoid robot brains - At some point. - How important is embodied AI to you? - I think it's like sort of and the only way to get things done in the physical world is like So I really hope that as as this phase change, we also get motor robots or some sort of physical world robots. - I mean, OpenAI has some history and quite a bit of history but it hasn't quite done - Well, we're like a small company. We have to really focus and also robots were hard for But like we will return to robots in some way at some point. - That sounds both inspiring and menacing. - Why? - Because you immediately, we will return to robots. It's kind of like in like- - We'll return to work We will not turn ourselves - Yeah. When do you think we you and we as humanity will build AGI? - I used to love to I have realized since that I think it's like very poorly formed and that people use extremely definition, different definitions for what AGI is. And so I think it makes more sense to talk about when we'll build systems that can do capability X or Y or Z rather than when we kind of like fuzzily cross It's not like AGI is also not an ending. It's much more of.... It's closer to a beginning but it's much more of a mile marker than either of those things. But what I would say in to dodge a question is of this decade and possibly we will have quite capable and say, wow, that's really remarkable. If we could look at it now, maybe we've adjusted by - Yeah. But if you look at ChatGPT even 3, 5, and you show that to Alan Turing or not even Alan Turing, people in the nineties, they would be like this is definitely AGI. Well, not definitely, but there's a lot of experts that would say this is AGI. - Yeah, but I don't think It maybe changed the world's and that's actually really important. And it did kind of like get more people to take this seriously and And that's really important too. So again, I don't wanna undersell it. I think I could retire and be pretty happy with my career. But as an artifact, I don't think we're and say that was a threshold that really changed the world itself. - So to you, you're looking for some in how the world? - For me, that's part of what AGI implies. - Like singularity level transition? - No. Definitely not. - But just a major, like the internet being like a... Like Google Search did, I guess. What was the transition point that- - Does the global economy or materially different before we launched GPT-4? I think you would say no. - No, no. It might be just a really nice tool for a lot of people to use, will help people with a lot of stuff, but doesn't feel different. And you're saying that- - I mean, again, people of different ways. So maybe you have a different But for me, I think that should be part of it. - There could be major What to you would be an Like you are alone in - This is personally important to me. I don't know if this is I think when a system can of scientific discovery in the world, that's like a huge deal. I believe that most real from scientific and - I agree with you, hence why I don't like the in the recent years. - Totally. - But actual rate, like measurable rate of But even just seeing a system like scientific intuitions, even that will be just incredible. - Yeah. - You're quite possibly to build the AGI to be before anyone else does. What kind of stuff would you talk about? - I mean, definitely, the that before I do so. - Sure. - But I've actually thought If I were someone was like... As we talked about earlier, I think this is a bad framework. But if someone were like, Here's a laptop. Yeah, this is the AGI,&quot; you can go talk to it. I find it surprisingly difficult that I would expect that first Like that first one is which is go like I don't think, like go explain to me the grand the theory of everything for physics. I'd love to ask that question. I'd love to know the - You can ask yes or no questions about there's such a theory exist, can it exist? - Well, then those are the - Yes or no, just very... And then based on that, are there other alien Yes or no? What's your intuition? And then you just ask that. - Yeah. I mean, well, so I don't expect that this first AGI could answer any of those questions even as yes or nos. But if it could, those would be very high on my list. - Hmm. Maybe it can start - Maybe we need to go and measure more things first. - But if it's any AGI... Oh I see. It just doesn't have enough data. - I mean, maybe it says like you want to know the answer to this I need you to like build this machine and make these five - Yeah. What the hell do you want from me? I need the machine first and I'll help you deal with Maybe you'll help me - Maybe. - And on the mathematical side, maybe prove some things. Are you interested in The formalized exploration of ideas? Whoever builds AGI first Do you trust yourself - Look, I was gonna... I'll just be very honest with this answer. I was gonna say, and I still believe this, that it is important that I, nor any other one person, have total control over And I think you want a I can point out a whole bunch of things about all of our board about how I didn't fight it initially and was just like, yeah, even though I think it's And then later, I clearly did fight it and I can explain the nuance and why I think it was okay But as many people have observed, although the board had the legal ability to fire me, in practice, it didn't quite work. And that is its own kind Now, again, I feel like the specifics here and I think most people But it does make it harder for me to like look you in the eye and say, hey, the board can just fire me. I continue to not want super I never had it, never have wanted it. Even after all this craziness, I still don't want it. I continue to think that no company should and that we really need governments to put rules of the road in place. And I realize that that means or whatever will claim I'm and I'm just willing to It's not true. And I think in the fullness of time, it'll get proven out But I think I have made for OpenAI along the way and I'm proud of the track record overall, but I don't think any one person should. And I don't think any one person will. I think it's just like and it's happening throughout society in a good and healthy way. But I don't think any one of an AGI or this whole And I don't think that's what's happening. - Thank you for saying that. That was really powerful and that was really that the board can fire And human beings can manipulate the masses into overriding the board and so on. But I think there's also a of that where the people still have power. So the board can't be too powerful either. There's a balance of power in all of this. - Balance of power is - Are you afraid of losing That's a lot of people who worried about existential risk not because of state actors, not because of security concerns, but because of the AI itself. - That is not my top worry There have been times I There may be times again in the future where that's my top worry. It's not my top worry right now. - What's your intuition about Because there's a lot of other stuff to worry about essentially. You think you could be surprised? We could be surprised. Saying it's not my top worry doesn't mean I don't think we need to like... I think we need to work on it super hard. We have great people I think there's a lot of other things we also have to get right. - To you, it's not super easy to like connect to the internet. - We talked about theatrical risk earlier. That's a theatrical risk. That is a thing that can how people think about this problem. And there's a big group I think very well-meaning that got super hung up I'd argue without much progress, but super hung up on this one problem. I'm actually happy that they do that because I think we do need But I think it pushed aside, it pushed out of the of the other very - Let me ask you about you Does the shift keep - Why does anyone care about that? - I deeply care. - But why? I mean, other people Any intuition? - I think it's the same reason there's like this poet E. E. Cummings that mostly doesn't use capitalization to say like fuck you to And I think people are very paranoid 'cause they want you to follow the rules. - You think that's what it's about? - I think it's- - This guy doesn't follow the rules. He doesn't capitalize his tweets. This seems really dangerous. - He seems like an anarchist. - [Sam] It doesn't. - Are you just being poetic, hipster? What's the- - I grew up as- - Follow the rules, Sam. - I grew up as a very online kid. I'd spent a huge amount with people back in the days where you did it on a computer and you could like log off And I never capitalized there as I think most like internet kids didn't, or maybe they still don't. I don't know. I actually, this is like... Now, I'm like really trying But I think capitalization If you read like old English writing, they capitalized a lot of random words in the middle of sentences, nouns and stuff that we I personally think it's sort that we capitalize the letter and of certain names and whatever. That's fine. And I used to, I think, even because I was trying to sound I haven't capitalized my like private DMs or whatever in a long time. And then slowly, stuff like shorter form, less formal stuff has slowly drifted to like closer and closer to If I write, if I pull up a Word document and I'm writing a strategy memo for the company or something, I always capitalize that. If I'm writing a long kind I always use capitalization there too. So I still remember how to do it. But even that may fade out. I don't know. But I never spend time thinking about this so I don't have like a ready made. - Well, it's interesting. Well, it's good to, first of all, know there's the shift key is not broken. - It works. - I was mostly concerned about - I wonder if people still Like if you're writing or their ChatGPT queries, if you're writing do some people still bother to capitalize? - Probably not. Yeah, there's a percentage, but it's a small one. - The thing that would make me do it is if people were like... It's a sign of like... Because I'm sure I could force myself to use capital letters, obviously. If it felt like a sign of then I could go do it. But I don't know, I don't think about this. I don't think there's a disrespect, but I think it's just the that have a momentum and then you realize it's for civility if it's not a But I think there's a movement to have a philosophy around it so they can let go of this - I don't think anybody else I mean, maybe some people... - Think about this every I'm really grateful we clarified it. - Can't be the only person - You're the only CEO of a company that doesn't capitalize tweets. - I don't even think that's true, but maybe, maybe. - All right, we'll investigate for this and return to this topic later. Given Sora's ability to let me ask you a pothead question. Does this increase your belief if you ever had one that maybe a simulated world - Yes, somewhat. I don't think that's like the I think the fact that we can everyone's probability somewhat openness to it somewhat. But you know, I was like to do something like Sora at some point. It happened faster than I thought. I guess that was not a big update. - Yeah. And presumably, it'll get The fact that you can generate worlds, they're novel. They're based in some but when you look at them, they're novel. That makes you think like how how easy it's to create universes, entire like video game worlds and photorealistic. And then how easy is it to get lost in that world first with a VR headset and then on the physics-based level? - Someone said to me recently, I thought it was a super profound insight that there are these like but very psychedelic insights So the square root function. Square root of four, no problem. Square root of two, okay, now I have to think But once I come up with this easy idea of a square root function that you can kind of explain to a child and exists by even like looking then you can ask the question of what is the square This is why it's like a psychedelic thing that tips you into some And you can come up with But I think this idea that the lowly square such a profound insight and a new realm of knowledge, applies in a lot of ways. And I think there are a for why people may think that of the simulation hypothesis than they thought before. But for me, the fact that Sora worked - I do think broadly speaking, AI will serve as those kinds of gateways at its best simple to another wave sea reality. - That seems for certain. - That's pretty exciting. I haven't done Ayahuasca before, but I will soon. I'm going to the in a few weeks. - Excited. - Yeah, I'm excited for it. Not the Ayahuasca part. That's great, whatever. But I'm gonna spend several deep in the jungle and it's exciting, but it's terrifying- - I'm excited for you. - 'Cause there's a lot of things that can eat you there and but it's also nature and And you can't help but of nature in the Amazon jungle 'cause it's just like this and renews itself like every second, every minute, every hour. It's the machine. It makes you appreciate like this human thing came from somewhere. This evolutionary machine has created that and it's most clearly on So hopefully, I'll make it out alive. If not, this will be the so I really deeply appreciate it. Do you think, as I mentioned before, there's other aliens, intelligent ones when you look up at the skies? - I deeply want to believe I do find that kind of where... I find the firm paradox - I find it scary that intelligence is not good at handling- - Yeah. Very scary, powerful. But at the same time, I think I'm pretty confident that there's just a very large number of intelligent alien It might just be really difficult to travel with this space. - Very possible. - And it also makes me think about the nature of intelligence. Maybe we're really blind to what intelligence looks like and maybe AI will help us see that. It's not as simple as IQ tests and simple puzzle solving. There's something bigger. Well, what gives you hope This thing we've got going on, this human civilization. - I think the past is like a lot. I mean, we just look at in a not very long period of time. Huge problems, deep flaws, lots to be super ashamed of, but on the whole, very inspiring, gives me a lot of hope. - Just the trajectory of it all that we're together pushing - It is... One thing that I wonder about is, is AGI gonna be more or is it more like the sort between all of us? You have not had a great from your great-great-great grandparents, and yet what you're capable What you know is dramatically different. That's not because of biological change. I mean, you got a little You have modern medicine, you eat better, whatever. But what you have is this scaffolding that we all contributed No one person is gonna No one person is gonna go And yet you get to use it. And that gives you incredible ability. And so in some sense, that like we all created that and that fills me with That was a very collective thing. - Yeah. We really are standing on You mentioned when we were dramatic AI risks that sometimes you might be Do you think about your death? Are you afraid of it? - I mean, I like if I got shot tomorrow and I knew it today, I'd be like, &quot;Oh, that's sad. I wanna see what's gonna happen.&quot; - [Lex] Yeah. - What a curious time. What an interesting time. But I would mostly just feel - The moments that you did get... Yeah, me too. It's a pretty awesome life. I get to enjoy awesome creations of humans of which I believe ChatGPT is one of, and everything that OpenAI is doing. Sam, it's really an honor and pleasure to talk to you again. - Great to talk to you. Thank you for having me. - Thanks for listening to this conversation with Sam Altman. To support this podcast, please check out our And now let me leave you with some words from Arthur C. Clarke and maybe that our role to worship God, but to create Him. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.