In this video you'll learn why you how this can be a trauma response from And we're going to use Batman as an example. shortcut even though you weren't really supposed walk around this, so of course I'm going to take your brain does this all the time. It takes these while cutting across the grass causes a little bit that can cause a lot of harm, especially in the example. Let's say you're a little kid. You spill &quot;What's the matter with you? Why'd you do that?&quot; my parent doesn't seem safe. I wonder about the simultaneously being a good person while also it's all my fault.&quot; It's clear to see how fault&quot; is actually a much easier route than the do bad things. But if we keep blaming ourselves, depressed, or angry. So in this video we'll self-blame, and we'll look at some practical Our brains are constantly trying to make but the brain's interpretation is not always that aren't completely accurate. These are called them. But we can learn to be more aware of them. worst. So does this sound familiar? &quot;If I get good job.&quot; Or we might see things in extremes. is called catastrophizing, and the second one for things that aren't our fault is another &quot;If I hadn't made him mad, he wouldn't have hit good job? No. Does nothing good ever happen we just have to notice it. And do you have person? Was was it your fault that you were hit? And self- blame is one of the most common one of the first scientists to describe cognitive who blamed herself when their picnic was ruined weather, right, but a person in the mental things that went wrong, even when those things ways people blame themselves. Number one: they as in, &quot;It's my fault my parents got divorced&quot; they believe that they should have seen it coming. wedding day.&quot; Or three: they make it about their the blank] lazy, stupid, inconsiderate, idiotic, fill in that blank. Do you see how often and thankfully, just because you think something look at ourselves, we only repeat behaviors why the heck would we like to blame ourselves? especially when we have a trauma response. In and asked his parents to leave the theater, Recognizing young Bruce's trauma is not difficult. and this led to brooding over what could have been brain needed to make some explanation for why common in real life: he blamed himself. And he Alfred. Yes, Master Bruce. It was my fault, How does trauma lead to self-blame? Trauma is capacity to manage it. Because trauma floods we don't have the capacity to make nuanced where the brain takes that easy shortcut to ourselves when the stress is high or our resources energetic you might take the longer sidewalk, but you'll be more likely to take the grassy shortcut. the various villains who killed his family, Bruce just a little kid. He was all alone. He didn't complicated causes behind crime and violence. then they hang on to that thinking, even in the blaming ourselves is a shortcut to make sense of There's a few more reasons why self-blame can it hurts us in the long run. Self-blame can give that our own choices can't fully protect us that things would have been better if we'd done power over an unwanted outcome, and that can make &quot;I used to get harassed on dating apps, but at the time I would just fret about what tiny that the disturbing comments would stop.&quot; Do you she created a false sense of control by blaming protect the peace in relationships that we're when you were a kid coming home late from curfew. You arrive home, and your mom's angry. She Mom, it's all my fault that we were late,&quot; that blame to keep the peace. Now, at an extreme level, be safer than blaming a dangerous person. So if response, the fawn response, might override retaliation. When we're young we simply don't of our caregivers, so we make sense of things by of security by believing that our parents are that idea of &quot;It must be my fault&quot; with us into &quot;I'm never good enough.&quot; Blaming ourselves someone else's wrongdoing. So for example, then I would need to go protest or call my And lastly, sometimes blaming ourselves whether it's from our victim-blaming society and if it weren't for you, he'd still The good news is, if we learned it, we are looking for a comprehensive therapeutic check out my membership. It includes access to plus a live monthly Q&amp;A where you can ask me your you can also purchase each of my courses if self-blame is something you're dealing with, course. In it we tackle issues like self-blame healthier coping strategies. This course is available as a one-time purchase. And I've had so of them even said that she started singing again Now, I have lots of free content here on YouTube, structured and actionable with steps in a Okay. Check it out. Link's in the description. And is a mental shortcut that our brain takes but it also hurts us. So what do we do instead? choose to process through trauma in a more honest distorted thinking, we're going to question it, helpful. Okay. So number one: let's recognize we think something doesn't mean it's true. The yourself, &quot;Would I treat a friend this way? Would no, you're using emotional reasoning, an illogical to catch ourselves in these thoughts. Here's six feeling guilty, helpless, or worthless. Number Notice that &quot;all.&quot; That's exaggerated. Number you downplay other people's responsibility. Number like &quot;Oh, I'm just never good enough.&quot; Or number the future. When you catch yourself doing these And this is called decentering or cognitive and noticing your thinking, and that can allow want to get caught in a struggle of like arguing my fault. Yes, it is my fault. No, it's not my fault,&quot; values, our goals in life. Instead, we just want to There is that blaming thought again&quot; - and then want to live. Okay. So that's number one - noticing Number two: the next thing we can do is get clear we mess up, and we can learn to do better next The key is to know what we're actually responsible to get clear on this I would recommend asking this event happening? And we're going to write them when you get this all out on paper, you can see deaths because the man who was responsible was societal factors that were pretty overpowering. do a pie chart at the end of Lion King, he could Mufasa. So if you tend to blame yourself too much, would love to see in the comments what percentage three: you might be asking, but how can I tell if it stop asking. Um here's the thing with blame: blame something bad you did, or you can blame someone change what happened. If you did make a mistake, practical step I can take now to make repairs from happening in the future? Blame is like It's like rocking and rocking, but it does not helpful. Responsibility is like walking. It's hard we have to ask ourselves: does blaming myself help make my life rich and meaningful? Does it help me sometimes we mistakenly believe or especially will keep us from making the same mistake in the costs. Self-blame makes you feel bad, guilty, not honest. So we're going to shift our attention step three is: it's choosing helpful, value-based actions would you take today to move one inch crime, but he doesn't have to do it from a place in being kind, helpful, confident, courageous, you don't know how to clarify your values, you can Um it's a values clarification exercise. I'll So what what this all really comes down to is and lies that come with the mental shortcut of and can you allow others to be responsible for responsibility, and can you allow some things to are healing. If it's my responsibility, it's mine, truthful about our responsibilities we can take When you let go of self-blame you can feel and have the courage to change the things [Music]