My name's John Mendoza. I'm a former member of the I was a category III, and I was a regimental commander in different parts of Northern California. And this is how crime works. I've been to San Quentin, Pelican Bay. In the early '90s, they put us out there with Southern Mexicans and the Aryan Brotherhood, Those were our enemies. They were putting us out and we were going out there fighting. If you were crafty enough we'll try to kill each other. I went to prison in 1988 Some of my older homeboys that were there in the county jail with me basically told me that that the NR is going to approach me about making a commitment. The first time I went out there was a group of individuals that were covered with tattoos. Those were the NR members. they put me on a 90-day It's like you're functioning but you're not an actual member. You can do anything Stabbing somebody, keeping holding paperwork, holding a weapon. A lot of guys that make a commitment because they want the Those guys are going to because they're not making the commitment for the right reasons. I was an NR member for People take notice when and you're not questioning authority, you're developing into a leader. Eventually the NF is going to approach you because the NR, in essence, is like the NF's training grounds. I think it was 1994, I was approached by two Smiley from Salinas and Induction process is similar to the NR. You go through an indoctrination process where you learn some of You have a sponsor, and you have the guy They're responsible for you. When you make a commitment to the NF, it's a lifetime commitment. I was asked things like, &quot;Are you willing to kill Are you willing to put before everything else in your life?&quot; Everything else that you were They write everything down. There's 14 bonds, which is, I used to call it my little toolbox. Everything that I needed within that movement -- You're encouraged to study things like Middle Eastern philosophy, Socrates, revolutionary literature like And then there's everything about how to make weapons. I can make a stabbing instrument It's all about how you roll it and then how you put the point on. When your membership is sanctioned, They'll get together with you maybe in a group setting They'll say something like, &quot;Today, we're welcoming Me, I was right there in and it was done similar. &quot;Hey, this brother's a carnal now. He's a Familiano from this point on. He's a member of the mob.&quot; It's like, I felt like a point in my career where I had really accomplished something. Everything that I've When a new arrival will come in, we'll get his information, we'll get his name, his CDC number, we'll get a little bit about his history. We'll get things like his aka, his age, his neighborhood, what they called him. We'll look on the BNL to make So, the BNL, the Bad News of everybody that's coming I'll send a filter out to all the members that are in that household, &quot;Have you done time with this individual? This guy just drove up. Do you know him?&quot; Any good or bad information, If nothing comes back, he'll Then at that point, he'll soap, shampoo, coffee, When you first come in to an they give you what's That's like your passport. The gangs, they're going but the only way you're is if they freely give it up. That's the only way we're going to get it. It's going to say on that lockup order whatever gang that you're affiliated with. It's going to say things like, if you got an S on your jacket, like a sex offense or something, it's going to say it right there. So somebody like that, you know, you got an S, they probably wouldn't even give up their 114 lockup order because they already know what time it is. The NF is built, it's constructed or built A lot of the old NF members They're ex-Marines, so the structure of the and brought it to the NF. You have captains, lieutenants, commanders, a category I-er. Or for members that are just they have no status over anybody else. Then you have a cat II. They've shown that they and they can give a correct interpretation of the constitution. They'll become teachers for the cat Is. Now, in order to become a cat III, it's the cream of the crop. Then you have the inner that basically make the decisions for the entire organization. You have a general for the prisons, you have a general for the streets, and then you have a general that's -- it's basically like internal affairs. He handles investigations, things like that. When you're in the SHU, you might be in charge of, like, 200 guys. You're not really There's guys out there on the mainline, regimental commanders out But on the streets, if you're a regimental it might be 20 or 30 guys. I was a regimental commander Different parts. Each time, there was probably that were under me at that time. A day for me, well, it you're running H-Unit in I would have to sit there and So you're getting daily from all these different blocks. All day long, I would just be San Quentin is the worst place to be as far as being a leader. The main rivals for the they're following the Surenos, and then you have the Aryan Brotherhood, and they're following the whites. But on the mainline, it's mixed. Everybody's mixed out there. The Nortenos, the Surenos, If you're talking about in an a SHU program, everybody's I spent all the '90s in the SHU program. When you see us out there burpees and we're doing we're not out there doing to get karate bodies and just We're training for a They're getting ready to They're going to be engaged in a conflict. So, the SHU program is like They put you in a cell, and you stay in the cell You'll come out of the cell for a half hour to take a shower, and then you might come out for yard, and you come out to a yard that's, you got four concrete walls and a camera. That's all that's out there. If you see a bird fly over, you're like, &quot;Damn, I seen a bird today, man.&quot; You go back in there and In the SHU program, they got Everything is electric They sit up there and You know, you got one cop up there that's in charge of six different pods. So he might forget or he might forget that a door is open and he'll press another button and somebody else will come out. You could be in there watching and you'll be out on the tier in a fight for your life the next minute. It'll happen just that fast. So, us as Nortenos, you know, all day our and we'd be sitting by the door. I mean, I get up and I work out, I watch my TV, but for the most part, whenever there was movement I would be posted up on my door, ready, just in case my door would open. Because a lot of times the COs but it wasn't a mistake. You know, they pop certain doors I used to see them. I used There's a lot of different places out there on the yards to bury weapons. Inside the buildings, up on the, like, in the little rafters. We obviously know where they're at. Under sinks or in the walls, buried. They keister it. You know, to move a weapon they'll put it in their anal cavity, is how it's moved around. I don't know how you want So, I went through Corcoran SHU We were going at it with the Mexican Mafia and the Aryan Brotherhood. You know, they knew we that we would kill each but they would put us out on the yard. And they knew. The You'd have to have your light on, and that meant that you Guys used to turn their lights off because they didn't want no part of it. But those of us that remained active, we'd turn our lights on and we'd go out. It's like a little enclosure and the yard's like a little, it's kind of shaped like a piece of pie. When you get in that little enclosure, you can see through the yard door who you're going to go out So we'd go out, we'd fight. Always try to get yourself situated so that they have their back to the gunner so that you can see Because we were the ones It was the Northeners and the Blacks that were getting shot There's no warning shots, per se, but what they have is they have, like, a -- it's called a bertha or a knee-knocker. It's, like, a gas gun that Sometimes they'll fire once, twice, and then they'll grab the real gun. But yeah, they don't give warning shots. Now, the other thing though, too, is the COs are making bets. They would be like, &quot;Hey, we You guys better go out there You know, sometimes they from one building and they from another building When I first came in I used to mean-mug them. I used to have a bad taste And I didn't even know why I hated them. It was because I was supposed to. That's the mindset that But being around them, a lot They were solid dudes. If there's a Sureno and or I got a book and he we'll pass literature back We can play chess on the tier. It doesn't do us any good any more stressful than what it is. Now, like I said, if the gate's open, we were directed to basically torpedo out and engage with whoever was on the tier. If we were going to take our politics might get set to where, yeah, we might come together to go against administration. You might see something within an ad-seg unit or something where we're not getting fed right, they're tearing up our cells and disrespecting personal possessions like pictures and things like &quot;You know what? We had enough. Blocking your window so that which basically forces them and cell-extract you. It's something that I was in Susanville. You know, when we were going people might debate this, but as far as who they favored in that war. Even some of the female officers. It's just, you could tell that they were either or they were sympathizing for the south. A lot of it is just geography. Where that prison's at, that might be hooked Corruption, it's rampant I mean, you see a lot of female officers are getting The next thing you know, They're not getting that kind of stuff in through the visiting room. They're getting it through corrupt COs. In prison, one of the things are the cellphones that are coming in. But it's a huge business for COs. They can make anywhere bringing in a phone, a cellphone. Having the phones is, it's a when I was in the SHU when we'd be back there there was a lot of lag Either it had to go out through a phone call, or a visit, maybe a week or two for somebody to drive 300, 400 miles to come But now you put these cellphones in the hands of these leaders, if somebody's got a green light on them, they'll make a phone call. You'll get a leader that on the streets, and it &quot;Hey, this dude's got a green It might happen that same night. Let's say somebody came on the tier, I was on the tier in and he was, like, six cells down. I'd make verbal contact with him. I'd yell down there, &quot;Hey, Heyo, once you get situated, go ahead and make a line Making a line is where you take or from the strands from your sheet. You'll make a line, and so that you can put a and then you'll throw it down the tier. It's just a way to get back So he'll tie the kite on and I'll read it, and and he'll pull it back. Ingenuity. There's a lot of different ways to do things like that. there's a language that we use It's an Aztec language, and but we use it so that if we're on a tier and we need to communicate and we can talk on the tier in front of them and they're not going to know what we say. There's very few people that They'll just know certain CO, hit, green light, things like that. Nortenos, our color is red. Surenos, they wear blue. So, the NF insignia, the sombrero, obviously it signifies You got the dagger that signifies that this is a violent organization. And then each drop of blood characterizes its own individual meaning. So one drop of blood is for blood in, guys that have spilled blood Blood out, meaning anybody from the organization, it's And then the third drop that have honorably spilled blood, that have died in the I had &quot;Nuestra Familia&quot; and I got that covered up. I had a star on my hairline, when I had hair, that signified the NR. I had &quot;Familiano&quot; over my left eyebrow, being a family member in Spanish. And then I had a tattoo I had a &quot;NF&quot; back there. The whole purpose of generating money is supposed to be for the that are doing life in prison that don't have a means to That's what it's supposed to be. It's a smoke screen, though. There's a trickle-up effect. The money that comes in, the select few at the and they're the ones that use that money for their own expenses. Some of it's used to invest in drugs and to invest in new you know, breaking NF ground If I got a visitor that's off the top, my gang is 25% of it, 50% of it, or I might even have to and they'll give me back what they feel that they want to give me. You know, you're part of that gang, you're going to take care of that gang or that criminal organization. The biggest thing in prison, the currency in there is soups. Everybody loves soups, Top Ramens. That's like prison or But, you know, obviously then the hardcore drugs White lightning, a cup of But you're talking that's like vodka. I learned early on from that the more violent I was, out there on the streets, The fastest way to elevate is by hurting people. So, out on the streets, the structure, you have your regimental your squad leaders, I would have a second in command, and he would be my buffer. He would collect the money. He would make sure that issuing out the drugs, the guns that were coming That was to kind of keep me insulated. In the '90s, when it was a lot different, the regiments were called Everything was compartmentalized. You had a robbery crew, another You had a wrecking crew. I think the influence has waned In the '80s and the '90s, you couldn't testify against the NF and live in the same county. You wouldn't even want The threat was, it was very But once the three-strike we kind of stepped away and started doing almost The influence is there. People know that they're out there, they're in the cuts, they're functioning. It's just not as -- it's not like it was. I want to say since, like, '68 is when the NF first came into inception. From that time on, that's the Mexican Mafia in This is basically when decided that they weren't going to be abused by the Mexican Mafia anymore. And from that point on, So for almost the next five decades, that war was in effect. The truce actually started at Pelican Bay, the end of Again, the whole purpose of it that had been in the SHU program for, some of them three decades, it was to get back out to the mainlines and to basically show CDC that they could live on the same yard So I thought it was a temporary thing. They were going to get out there, somebody was going to and it was going to kick off, and then it was just going But it's lasted. I mean, honestly, I never that I would ever see the would be out there on the with each other, walking But at the same time, there Guys that had issues, their respective gang, Whether it was over misconduct, something came up in their there was a lot of housecleaning. And then there was a lot of guys that didn't agree with the peace treaty. They felt like, &quot;You know what? I didn't sign up for this, man. What are we doing? What that have spilled blood in the past?&quot; I think the violence is worse. When they let these guys all these leaders, guys from the '80s, when I came to prison, they're starting to bring where they're not just poking people and slicing people up no more. You see all the murders that The Mexican Mafia, the They would rather eat their own right now. In 2004, I was arrested in where I was the leader of a street crew, an NF regiment. So I was the main target On the first day, on June 11th, 2004, they raided around eight houses that were all in relation They put me in a observation I had too much influence So they wanted to keep me isolated. And during that time, my girl, she had lupus. I was trying to do everything I could to make it easy on her. I knew I was in trouble, but I didn't want to tell and for somebody like that, during the first couple weeks talking to her, my mom on the phone, I had some difficult You know, &quot;What are you going to do? Are you going to sacrifice yourself? Think about your family for once.&quot; My mom kept pushing me to cooperate. She kept pushing me to cooperate. &quot;You need to cooperate. Do what you do. Your wife's out here dying. And I basically started pacifying her, telling her whatever I needed to tell her. &quot;Let the case play out. I haven't even been to court yet.&quot; So, what they do is, and understandably, they release my phone calls of how I've been talking to my girl, and all my codefendants hear these conversations about cooperating. Trying to explain that to the NF, it was going to fall on deaf I was a leader. I get held because I know better, and I got no business talking like that. This is five years later now. People are still speculating Come on, man. It's five years, and there's no police So, somebody that had an agenda pushed the issue with They put a green light It was literally - the dude, tried to push a phone over I still held my mud. I still wanted to be a 17 months later, they put I functioned for another two years. Put another green light on me, and the second time, it was Somebody wanted to act like they were trying to spear The spear was, like, 2 feet too short. Didn't have a tip on it. You know, my wife, she My mom ended up dying. She passed away. So they did this at a in a dark place, you know what I mean? I'm looking at life. I was getting ready to plead So I was like, &quot;You know I agreed that I was done and that I would talk to them. So that's what I did from that point on. I denounced my membership, and I agreed to cooperate. However, the cooperation I didn't go in as a percipient witness. Everybody that I got So I went in there basically talking about what I'm talking about The judge struck two of my strike priors, which took me out of the three strikes and gave me 16 years, eight months. I've been in the county None of that had to happen. If the NF would've let me fight my case, I would've been a big dummy with a life sentence. Yeah, I But, you know, by them I felt betrayed. For somebody that just the organization no more, to just ride off into the sunset and go on about their it's still not considered honorable, but it's something that people will say, &quot;You know what? At least he At least he didn't hurt nobody.&quot; But, you know, there's never retirement. You'll never be able to I've had a couple some individuals. When that's when everybody wants to get active. But, you know, when I they're not trying to do all that. And I'm not trying to I'm trying to just live. Live out the rest of my I'm not going to spend the rest of my life looking over my shoulder. My book is -- through talking to at-risk youth, I've talked to kids that Probation officers come up &quot;These youngsters, they read your book, and we actually use your book as a workshop type of thing. The name of the book is called &quot;Nuestra Familia: A Broken Paradigm.&quot; And so I started doing a YouTube channel, Paradigm Media News. I got a series on my channel, and the other one's called &quot;War Stories.&quot; It's also therapeutical to talk about it, you know, to try to help that might be headed for I give them the fine print that they don't hear until they make a commitment and they find theirselves I've seen a lot of my homeboys Most of them are gone. There's only three roads in this lifestyle. You're either going to spend the rest of your life in prison, you're going to die trying advancement forward, or you're There's no pot of gold at My name is Vidal Guzman. I was on Rikers when I was 16, and this is how crime works. The nicknames that it Gladiator School, Torture Island, the name speaks for itself. Eighty-five percent of people who are on Rikers Island are just awaiting trial. That means that majority of to be sentenced or I worked for the Close Rikers Campaign. We heard of stories, people When I got locked up, I got I got picked up one morning, it was, like, 5 in the morning, and my family didn't know their rights. They put the cuffs on you, and all you see is this bridge, and you're like, &quot;Where are we going?&quot; They're like, &quot;We going to Rikers. We're going to Gladiator School.&quot; C-74 is on the island itself. The facility that kept the 19-to-24, that age bracket. Everybody was facing hard When we was supposed to or thinking about picking out our suits or picking out what colleges that wasn't it. I never knew that, you know, when I got incarcerated, that Rikers Island At that time in 2007, It was overpopulated with youth. I had to go in there so I can be able to survive. And I learned that my first day when a youth put a spoon in and what the kids told me was, &quot;You were supposed to swing at him.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Yeah?&quot; He's like, &quot;Yeah, man. You don't Next time, I said, &quot;You know what? Let me corner him and If we feel some type of way, we do what we have to do. And I started slowly learning that if I want to live and survive here, then I really gotta lose a piece of myself that I try to hold on, right? The human side of myself. I started learning about &quot;the program.&quot; We always knew what correctional officers were the one that was They could say, &quot;Well, on the youth, so we needed to figure out how to keep them under control.&quot; Basically, it's this power structure on Rikers Island that had people that fight for You know, to not worry about or not worry about He'll get more calls to Because he'll take calls from people. If you're not in that power rank, that means you're not having cereal or you're not even having a muffin. Their commissaries get taken away. Their sneakers get taken away. So I had to come in these areas and be the most violent, right? Grab a TV, try to throw it at people. Attack someone first, right? Get jumped first. Some fights I lost, some fights I won. But No. 1 thing I always as long as you never turn Even when I was 16, the Like, if you want to get in the team or you want the housing So sometimes the CO might fall asleep and not pay attention. &quot;Yo, yo, the CO's sleeping, You go right in the back, and people fight it out. It'd been stuff like that. And in Rikers Island, there was always this little corner from where the cameras at Things like that happen now. There's still fight night on Rikers. They know that this a blind eye, or they might I mean, Rikers is falling apart, so it's easy to make a Breaking a piece of the A lot of times people get razors to shave, and that means somebody got that razor. Weapons are usually never really brung in. They're usually made Correctional officers, they knew, 16-, 17-year-olds, they couldn't put their hands on them. So this fight club was in some way, uphold power, right? You know, I would have black eyes, and correctional officers They'll say, &quot;OK. You OK? Did you win? Did you swing? Did you duck?&quot; Just, like, make fun of you. We knew what correctional We knew what housing complex they favor the most. We knew all that. You know, when people don't the struggle get hard. Tattoos does happen in there. It's dangerous, but people gotta hustle. That's the black market. You know, selling People figure out their way. I remember one time somebody even started a business of selling Shabangs. It's these chips on Rikers This person was buying these chips, created a online account, and sold them for, like, $3 more, because nobody could buy these chips but everybody loved these Shabang chips. You use the money from whoever sent you, or if you're working for $0.12, $0.16, you use whatever you People start tapping that they probably never I remember I used to write, at the time, with my I'll have them design the Like, have some Mickey Mouse or something really cartoony, and I'll pay somebody, like, two soups or three soups to do it. But then you have an into the underground or the black market. From there, they're trying They're boofing. Basically, boofing means you're literally throwing the whole drugs, and ... yeah. So, there's always stories of even correctional Even when Rikers was closed to visitors, how was weapons and drugs I remember when that -- we would call it the red alarm. You would hear it all the &quot;Woo, woo, woo, woo!&quot; Basically the turtles are correctional Their job is to deescalate, Every time I have dealt with the turtles have been them just getting their stick and start hitting anyone. Majority of the correctional officers on Rikers was Black and brown, so I was really expecting a lot of them to understand our struggle and to also advocate for us to not be in a facility, Some of the things that was done on Rikers when I was younger, or even now, was done by correctional officers. Like, they'll put Crips Not every single correctional Like, I had a correctional officer who was actually pretty He was a former, I think When he came into the space, that you're not supposed to have, some comb to comb out your hair, smell good so the dorms smell good. So there were people who was trying to do the inside work. They gave too much oversee for correctional officers that they haven't gave the counselors to be in these spaces. You're hearing stories of people who are correctional officers because of the issues trying to survive on Rikers. And that happens, right? It's stressful. You know, they go home, but I had to go through that same When I was incarcerated at At that time, I was more gang-related. I was a member of the Bloods. I became a part of the Bloods People around me was like friends, close friends of mine, so I didn't feel like I was joining, you know, like, how the Bloods, or, you know, I wasn't joining the Bloods, I was joining my community who was Bloods, right? It's different from the West Coast and the East Coast, right? The Bloods in the East At that time, early '80s, '90s, it was a lot of Latinx gangs and a lot of Blacks who felt A lot of different gangs grew there. The Trinitarios. They call I remember when they was called After they changed their name, they grew from Rikers Island. There are people who turn Blood or part of a gang while and for me it was a lot different, because I was already a part before I came into Rikers Island. It was so much politics. They keep the Crips in a away from us. We don't Maybe there's internal At that time, we had We had the Bloods, the Latin and for me, it was like, yo, man, let's figure out how we so we don't get into any violence. I've been in environments where You'll go up to them and I want your time slot.&quot; And people will fight Always rules that you gotta follow. Make sure you work out every day. Make sure you're intaking your lessons. The brotherhood of Don't mess with someone Don't be a rat. There's always those codes, basically in almost every gang, right? The way that they might say certain things to say something, right? Majority of the letters that are read, so they gotta in coding. So there've always been kites, letters. Let's say they're trying to someone who might be close to them. They'll wrap up the for it to be able to slide between doors. Because I speak Spanish, to relay messages faster and I was able to, if I was able to relay that fast to anyone. But wars can happen between gangs, and it can just change. Like, a letter will go out at what time, and what and everybody gotta move. &quot;Everybody gotta move&quot; basically mean that harm has to happen, and it's a fight throughout I think a lot of people don't really know what is Rikers, right? Like, they think Rikers is a prison, but Rikers is a collective of facilities that are not just on the island itself, but facilities that are close Bronx, Brooklyn, and Queens. I think people don't understand Rikers is close to 160 years that it has been oppressing Richard Riker was a He was a judge who broke by selling Black people back into slavery. In the 1930s, it was built by incarcerated people to extend Rikers. A majority of Rikers When it rains, I mean, you smell this, like, eggy, disgusting smell all the time. You can't drink the water there. You're fighting rats and I never seen collective to get a mouse out of the cell housing complex. You know, we heard of people because of how Rikers Island I remember a lot of times, they would turn a fan on, a regular fan, and let it blow all the way down the tier, and everybody, all of us, on the ground, no shirts, in our boxers to at least feel the coldness of the floor so we can at least cool down. And you're in a cell where you're like, &quot;I can't drink this water. I gotta keep throwing water in my face.&quot; There's dormitories and cell areas. So, in the cell area, it would just be me. So cells only have one individual. It's different from but on Rikers Island, you had like, you know, one per cell. In dormitory, it'll be, like, 50 people. And dormitory would be a little bit scary because the bed would be an arm's length of how close they was. If you want to wake up somebody, you can just reach out your When it talks about the dormitory was one of the The population in 2020 was at 4,000. Now, today, it's at 6,000. The majority of those times when you see a collective is when they're probably going to court or when they're on the visiting floor or maybe for medical. When I was doing my I actually came back to Rikers to try to get my cases They was running wild. Three and a half year for and then a year and a half At that time, my brother was a member of the Trinitarios, and at that time when I there was this beef between and I found out he was but I found out that there was, as they say, &quot;money&quot; on my brother's head to harm him from the Bloods. And I found out they was having a meeting at a lower library, and I was like, &quot;Let me go in there and tell them that's not going to happen.&quot; When I sat down, I said, that y'all talking about They was mad because some tobacco to the Bloods. That was the moment where I was like, I felt that the change came, right? That gangs are, you know, sometimes they put family against family. And I was like, &quot;Nope. and if it does get in a situation, it should be a one-on-one.&quot; One day, you know, I I was in a dormitory. My brother was in the same dorm as me. It was so sad. Not because -- I was It was sad because my in prison. One doing 16, the other one trying to It was that moment in my life where I just kind of &quot;Yo, it gotta be a different life for me.&quot; That meant that I decided Advocates from the city are just tired of hearing stories of how much Rikers has slowly been killing our peoples, spiritually, mentally, and physically. And it hasn't changed. The only thing that changed is that the youth are not on Rikers. Rikers has became more violent. I turn on the TV, like everyone else, and I hear about somebody I tear up just like them, you know? I tear up for their family because I know that I could A lot of people who are are individuals who have who are poor, can't be and are individuals who that are poor, overincarcerated, When you say you survived Because even now, since 2020, close to 30-something deaths. I mean, it's going to keep going up. In 2020, some of the and passed was something Kalief Browder was one of the who experienced Rikers as a youth and started speaking about it. I just got lost with Kalief Browder because I think a lot of times when we think about Kalief Browder and everything that he went through, getting abused by that one hit us the most. The Kalief law really got the population from where it was, 20,000, to the 4,000. But a lot of that right is because of broken-window I think because of the Kalief law, when we went up to Albany, passed the speedy trial, Bail reform, the bail reform issue was you have people in there, they was in there for and their bail will be, like, $5,000. They'll keep pushing his court date back, and they'll use the method on Rikers until you give Or take whatever they're And that's a tactic that also gets used. What we're also seeing is because resources are declining. The resources that were needed to fully provide Rikers Island to the next chapter of I think what sent me to the People don't understand You know, when I was very young, me and my mom, we was homeless. I think for me, I get traumatized knowing that, right? And experiencing that with my moms, and then growing up seeing people around At 8 or 9 years old, I was trying to figure stuff out, and, you know, 14, 15 years old, started getting harassed by police. Even being so young, you from middle school, from elementary, imagine you getting thrown on the wall by this big police 200 pounds, and you're just a kid. My brother was incarcerated. He was incarcerated for 16 years, and my uncle was incarcerated for around 7 1/2 years, but it's not just them, you know? Most of my family been and I grew up to be a man too early. Being tried as an adult meant that the judge that it doesn't matter that he sees me as I think I regret just the violence, right? Like, it's hard, right? Because you leave these spaces; you still gotta look I'm 32. I've been in What I mean, &quot;in the system,&quot; under some type of parole, And I'm 32, so this past two years been my first two years to being free. It feels really good not reporting to anyone or, you know, being able to know I'm done, you know? In 2015 when I came home, basically a food truck that, it hired formerly incarcerated youth. They got involved in a lot of They help people out to also figure out, what do they want to do further in their life? And for them, they noticed that Like, &quot;You need to get So, the campaign is called They're led by a organization and their goal was basically to keep continuing the organizing The city has closed some and facilities that are a part of Rikers, like the Brooklyn facility, C-74. I can't wait till 2027, right next to the bridge My name is Manuel Medrano, aka Cricket. I was a member of the and this is how crime works. For the most part, if of the Mexican Mafia, they're going to be other Looking back, I mean, it's ridiculous. No matter what, you're some kind of villain amongst yourself. It's just a hypocrisy of being When I was 17, I was I had been in a lot of so they transferred me Going to prison originally, they gave me 6 1/2 years. My original crime, I was It was a carjacking. You know, I just wanted to and that's what it was. The members of the Mexican Mafia were somebody that we had all heard of throughout our time as juveniles, as kids. We looked up to these guys. So when I got there, my to where I ended up on And so I just jumped head-on into obligating myself And like any other youngster, they used me to do multiple things. I mean, stabbings, moving drugs. I was in a gang as a kid. I was from a neighborhood You heard about these that ran stuff. You heard about the homicides Everything sounded so That movie, &quot;American Me,&quot; had come out, and that really had a After the movie came out, with their shirts buttoned To become a member, it's that you have to kill somebody. However, there's a lot of favoritism. There's a lot of nepotism. So there's a lot of and get made without the actual But it's a expectation that they will kill for the At the time, I think the We like to think about it as, you know, we're the elite of the prisoner system. Originally when I was made, A high-ranking member took a liking to me, and so he pushed my -- well, but they pushed my name through it. I was voted on, and I became a member. Within a few months, I did kill another member in bad standing, and that solidified it. I think it took me a while and I think there's a way to stop it before it goes that far. I regret it all. The patch itself in Arizona, it's a sun with the double M that comes down into double It has a sabertooth skull above and then a black rose in Only people that have killed or a member in the Old Mexican Mafia can even put that black rose There is no motto per se. Everybody speaks about It's a recruitment tool. They talk about the the Aztec, the Mayans, you know, try to put and just make you be I used to tell younger that we were fighting for, and if they were to ask me to define it, I wouldn't be able to. You know, in the end it's just about drugs and money and power. That's all it is. The main rules, I mean, they have the no snitching, At one time, no drugs. You were not allowed to That changed later. A lot of these rules are I mean, if you see a or a member of the old, at any time, if the doors were to pop, you have to try to kill them. When you're in the SHU program, a lot of the times the and open the doors on accident. And so you always have You're up all day waiting You're always supposed The money situation, As it comes in, the rule is that you spread it amongst the brothers, those that are within your ranking system. As a normal carnal without rank, you're just considered a brother. Then there'll be the ranking system. You have a captain, a You know, you have a lieutenant Then the three sergeants each have five or six carnales under them. The money will go up through that pyramid. That's where a lot of the because people feel that and so that rule will The biggest rule is to One of the reasons a lot is because when they get out of prison, they kind of just forget about everything. They stop contact, they just A lot of the times the problem is they don't change their lives, so they continue with crime, and they'll get locked and try to give excuses as or whatever their little, And for the most part, it never works. And so a lot of members have been killed behind that rule alone. Well, it started in '57 I believe, but the Arizona faction by three juveniles actually and they started La Familia and then shortly thereafter Arizona had some influence from California and now they are basically, it's not together necessarily, but friendly and on working terms. The administration was originally the ones that named them &quot;old&quot; and &quot;new,&quot; but they were all the These are members that just It was just the internal The organizations themselves I guess just to keep it straight you know, in Spanish we're they're from the vieja, the old. I never got rank. I wasn't a sergeant, I was just a member. The five captains were the and those five captains sat at the, we call it the mesa, the table. We have the mesa system or table system, where everything is voted on through them. So you had to be a to sit at the table. The five captains set all They'd change the rules. All the politicking would go through them. We're still all supposed to be brothers, and we're all supposed to be equal. Even, you know, it's in name only. That is the way it's supposed to be. Obviously the captains but again, it's more of a popularity contest. If you're a brother, you what it is you're supposed to be doing, whether that's establishing getting rid of people that bringing in dope, or collecting dope on the yards. In Arizona, our main rival as was with the Old Mexican Mafia. The administration tried their They have a thing where they, it was called protective segregation. In the later years of the '90s, we started having problems with a group that started calling That became a real big thing, and California at this point was behind the Border Brothers as well. So we were actually in a war for quite a few years or Border Brothers and people that were born in California. The Mexican Mafia wanted that had a patch as far as the, you know, on the Hispanic side, the Mexican side. The Border Brothers They started being hit and there started being riots. It was probably about a where it was going on. In Arizona, they also have it was factioned off of the It was actually a California member that came into our system. The Arizona guys kind of We did align with them only because of obviously the offense to the Black gangs. It was just a loose allegiance. I mean, or alignment, more just friends. If there was something we could go to them, and they would take care of You know, obviously if they don't have to give a and vice versa. Everything stays within your own race when it comes to that. The Blacks had multiple gangs. They had the Mau Maus, Crip All of them were kind and the Aryan Brotherhood I was part of a riot on the and I got stabbed in my and my mom was born in Mexico. And when I told her what &quot;What are you -- you guys are ridiculous. Like, what are you talking about? It's your same people.&quot; I would tell her, &quot;No,&quot; you know, &quot;It's different, ma. You don't And she would just be, you know, she would cuss me out in Spanish. Just, &quot;You guys are stupid,&quot; kind of. And now that I can look there's no big bad wolf out there that we were fighting against. For the most part, our There's not a lot of We don't usually make it that long, because as soon -- that's established for the prison gang. It was called the Violent It was, I believe, two They had members from the FBI, from every organization And so those were the ones that were basically on us all the time. It was tough. They would I'd walk into restaurants, and they'd be sitting in there eating. They would go to houses and they would tell them, &quot;Hey, your son is hanging He's suspected in multiple homicides.&quot; And they would just try to make it as tough as possible for me out there. So, when there's a member or something, usually they're getting out with some established The problem is some of and even though they they're still into drugs So they'll go back to their neighborhoods and they'll say who they were to try to get their neighborhood to give them drugs and money. And that'll always get back And so that's how we usually find them to be able to kill them. And me getting out, I did have a few names that I needed to, that were on the list to be killed. Upon being released, I right away tried to make that were already At first, I tried to use being a Mexican Mafia but that actually scared People, there's a history of bullying amongst the Mexican Mafia where they would approach these &quot;Hey, we're the Mexican Mafia, and we want this and that,&quot; and they just take instead of -- you know, there's no giveback. So what I started doing really was I had conversations with &quot;Listen, I understand our history. That's not what I'm about. The only thing I'm asking you to do is give me a better number At the time, methamphetamine and that's what I was mostly involved in, pounds of methamphetamine. I was sending to Kentucky, where it was double It wasn't like I had to send 80% of my proceeds to anybody. The established amount for non-members is they do have to give up a third of anything they bring into the system. So if you bring in 3 grams of heroin, one of those is going but us, within ourselves, and do whatever we need to do for that. It just comes down to that So if you get a letter saying, &quot;Hey, my sister needs a TV,&quot; then you get the sister a TV. You're basically keeping people happy. Everything that came into prison was what was controlled You couldn't bring dope in and make money without Now, with the connections to California and the cartels and stuff, things are a little bit more organized and established with the drug trade. And, you know, they started and putting up car shops and It depends on the members There was a few members in Tucson that were bringing tons and They had that connection out there. I know California had a little bit more established connections with the Arellano-Felix It's not like saying the with the cartel, it's just, you know, this member has a and if you need dope, we I mean, if you need 1,000 One of the big things that was happening in my day was coyote-ing Bringing them over the That was one of the things that You know, usually we We're not going to take that type of risk, but you could send your soldiers to go bring, you know, 10, 20 of the, what they call chickens, and bring the money back. And that was huge. And I believe still is. Just watching the news, you can see the stash were full of Mexican nationals being held, and that was the other side of it. A lot of them were sent to a stash house, and they would be held there until their family paid And yeah, absolutely, People usually come into the A lot of us did time and so there's always His dad may be in prison, his uncle. As people are coming into the system, you kind of know from their neighborhood or their family who they are. There is no obligation You don't have to be a part of it. The only obligation you you have to take part in it as a Chicano or a Mexican. I really only took part I recruited, I talked to and I did all of that stuff as well. Everybody's paperwork is read when they're coming in the system. You would read people's case. The pre-sentence report that would have a lot of clues. Anybody with a sex offense, there's no way that you're going to become a member. Other than that, there You don't even have to be Mexican to be in the Mexican Mafia. It's just a matter of, you know, we say what's in their If they're willing to put in the work and be a part of it, then they can work their In Arizona, we have no color system. In California, obviously, They have the Surenos Arizona doesn't have that. In Spanish, La Eme is just The M, it's just the shortening calling it La Eme. In Arizona, we don't use the Some of the Old Mexican Mafia did, but we have our own. I had the tattoo, the Mexican Mafia tattooed It had 4-inch letters, huge. The government actually paid to cover it. I mean, it was crazy. I couldn't walk around the rest of my life with Mexican Mafia tattooed So yeah, they paid to have it, a tattoo artist actually come in and cover it up for me. The Arizona Mexican Mafia which is the Aztec language. A lot of members learn that throughout their time in prison. We would use it a lot to write each other, for the purpose so our letters, kind of as code. There's been other codes that we've made and come up with in there, where you put letters in different spots and only the other person would know it. Every member usually has a code name in Nahuatl as well. That way we could speak of other members without the facility knowing It never works. They usually already know, but it's what we think at the time. The biggest way is through legal mail. You would get a case and print it out as and in the back of one of the papers, you could write whatever needs to be sent. And now you have, you know, where one page in the middle somewhere may have a note in it. It's going to be real especially since they're go through your legal mail There's another way where it's kind of, you write with urine, and when they get it in prison, you could put fire to it and The best way to send messages There's a lot of so-called secretaries, usually members' wives or girlfriends. Back then we would have a girlfriend have two or three phones in her house, and different members would and she would put the and then we could just talk to The biggest thing in As good as money. Stamps That is the currency of prison. The NFL bets and all of that. Everything was done in stamps. Dope, you can buy with stamps. There was two ways that people could pay, or three, actually. if you snuck cash in, So if you had $100, it was worth $200. Commissary was one for one. So I would give you a list of everything I wanted and that's how you would pay me. Or you could do street to street where your loved one would send the money to my loved one on the street. And in that case, you had 10 days for the by whoever was receiving it. If it wasn't there within When you're talking about something that costs $20 you know, a couple hundred in prison. And so when these guards, you know, you offer them that type of money, it's hard for them to say no. Integrity only takes them so far. Corruption is not difficult because of, I mean, they're human. Especially when you're young and you're being offered big money and you're getting paid, and these guys are waving for doing something that Some of them will be relationships. The guys will get into a relationship with a woman guard, and then the woman just or love or need to please. And so they'll bring in anything. Sometimes they're lied to. &quot;Hey, I just need you to but the pair of shoes is full of dope. They just don't know it. And sometimes they're told and they just, they're good with it. It just depends. I've seen guards open doors and let people go in and stab somebody. As far as training is concerned, that may be part of it. I've seen them as young They're just kids, and you're people that have been in I mean, the incarceration we're high up there in the world. Just putting someone in and then releasing them and expecting them to be different than they were five years ago, that's not a plan. If anything, I think it makes you worse. In my day, there were no programs. You can get your GED, and Just giving people the tools to do something with their lives may even change them on the inside if you give them a little sense of worth, you know what I mean? When you're just sitting in there, day to day, feeling I think it takes some of the You just fall in line And so the killing, the drugs, all this stuff just becomes normal. It's not hard to become a murderer. It's not hard to kill. And so I think the Department of Corrections would do everybody a favor if they separated everybody in that way, younger from older, but they don't. Everybody And again, I know it's difficult. How many facilities can you have and how many guards do you But in a perfect world, I think separation would be the best way. I was released in 2001 on parole, and I was out for seven months. I went back in on just a I was out for 4 1/2 months, I was pulled over with a gun in the car, under the passenger seat. Even though I got found not guilty, the prosecution put in for the judge to violate my probation or my parole and sentenced me to 15 months in prison. I was released April of 2003, and then in May we had the federal sting where they called the for all members. There was, like, I think 13 or 14 of us on the street at the time. And we all went to this meeting where we talked about past stuff. Homicides that we had homicides that we were going to do, drug deals that were on the horizon. And it was all a setup. One of the members, he was They had video cameras, And so 11 days after being released, I was rearrested and and I thought I was going I didn't know obviously I thought I was just arrested My son's mom, based on the fact that she had been arrested in our case, she had been indicted. A few members felt that So they had green-lighted her, and they were going to kill her. But no one spoke to me about it. And everybody, we were all there together. The people that made this decision, one of them lived right And so when the feds came and showed me the proof of what this conspiracy and it wasn't necessarily because I saw the proof. So when I got back to the pod, I brought it to their attention. You know, I was first told that the organization comes first, it's how -- all this type of stuff. And I agreed. I knew that. However, I felt that I should have been at You know, this is my son's mom. She just had my son, little baby. They agreed and apologized and said it wasn't going to happen but that I needed to talk to her and ensure that she But that was the issue. I had told her that she could tell on me. &quot;Go ahead and tell them to get your case dismissed. You know, plea bargain, A couple weeks later, the They had a taped phone conversation where it was being sent out. And so immediately, the day the feds came with the information about the phone call is when I told them, &quot;Hey, go pick her up, put her somewhere safe, They put her on the phone with me, and they had her checked I still remember. She's like, &quot;So you're going to flip?&quot; She goes, &quot;What the And I was like, &quot;What They're going to kill you. I can't just leave you at the house.&quot; And that was the end. That was the beginning They sent me to the CCA, and then I was there in the hole, or segregation, for about, I think four or five more years. It was the end of my criminal career, I guess you would call it. I think that was the hardest time. You know, I was, at the same time, I was on lockdown 23 hours a day. And in fact there was, they had enhanced security measures on me because I had went to that CCA. And so the marshals security measures on me where rec alone, and shower alone. A lieutenant or above had to be there to take me out of my cell. But I still though that I was going to be, I was going to get, you know, life. I never in my wildest dreams thought that I was ever going to get out. I was in until 2015, and now I've been out about nine years. This other side that I'm doing now with speaking out against There's a lot of kids that are, that look up to this c---, that think that this is something that is honorable, and it's just not. Me and my son's mom started the Our target is the at-risk youth and trying to keep these away from these prison gangs. But if we can, away This is just about going into talking to these kids. We've done fundraisers where we do back-to-school backpacks. We've given PE equipment to schools. We're just trying to do little But in the long run, our for this nonprofit to where we can offer these some sense of self-worth, and have us there as adult A lot of these kids don't have that. You know, I've talked to lots of people. Now I've made contacts crazy as it sounds. I have a couple members reaching out to me that are still active that are going on within And I think it's just, it's a good way to know, you know, the happenings of today. They're no different than before. It's the same drama, the same stuff. Hi, my name's Pieter I smuggled $5 million worth of and this is how crime works. I was arrested in Ecuador. I got transferred into the men's prison, which was called Garcia There was a wing which You could get anything It was almost like a small The security was very lax. All the guards were, but there were a lot of So, if you had cash in there, you could buy a cell for about $2,000. I mean, there were Everybody had a machete. And when things got bad, Hence the fact that a lot of After two years of being in Quito, I can see that my case is sort of just meandering on, not And my girlfriend's been Long gone back to Britain. So, I'm just left out Thinking of all these different So, I've become friends They talked about blowing with an RPG, because they So that was one plan. Another plan was a of the prison, but it was It was, like, 80 grand, 100 Third was a tunnel. And because the prison was so old and so many people have escaped they said that it is literally like a rabbit warren They said if you open up a hole you will come across at least two or three other tunnels in there. Like I say, forming friends members of FARC, and decide to try and escape, because we can see that the case is just going on and on and on. And they've had enough of So, we buy the penultimate cell on B wing, on the ground floor on the next door to the exterior I mean, the exterior wall It was maybe one, maximum and that was it, you were free. We'd buy the penultimate cell, stage a fake party with break the floor, so we dug out the concrete, made a cap, because you could get concrete and cement and stuff in there if you wanted. So we made a cap to fit the hole and start digging this tunnel But the guards got wind of the fact that I was planning some as they called it in And after a little while, on a visit, they basically came and collected me with a piece of 2-by-4 in their hands, a piece of wood, and said, &quot;Right, you're getting which is the big port city Very dangerous. And, I mean, this place was gigantic. I'd seen all sorts of about the prison at Guayaquil. At the time, it was either the fourth- or the fifth-most dangerous prison in the whole of South America. The murder rate there was 8,000 prisoners split half and half between two gangs who were I end up in the end with the Cubanos. The other end were, at Every day, gang fights. I mean, gunfights. They had inmates on the roof one on each corner of each wing. There, they had control You weren't allowed a mobile You had to use their mobile telephones. So you had to pay them a or 30 cents locally, I think it was. They had, again, a pyramid organization where there were three brothers at the top called the Los Cubanos, the Cubanos. And below that, on each wing, who collected a tax off every inmate once a week on a Sunday which was paid back to the And then they paid the to the director of the prison, to let them carry on doing Any foreigners that came into there were extorted for as much They would put a gun to your head, get you in a cell room, or in a room, and just say, &quot;Phone your sent over to this person or that person via Western Union or MoneyGram.&quot; So, a lot of families were A lot of foreigners as well. Into this mix of these two gangs at war with each other comes a third gang called the Choneros, who are now one of And they end up on the wing that I'm on, about 10 to 15 of them, including Jose [Jorge] Luis Zambrano, who was the head of the -- he was the boss of the And I actually got on the Choneros, because They were nicer people, even though they were contract killers. They were generally nicer people. Just easier to get on with. At one point, they put me in on the wing for them. So, I'm now the boss of the As well as having a boss on each wing, they had a boss for So there was a boss of the cocaine, boss of the marijuana, or weed, and a boss of the crack, or pulver, which is what they smoked. You could wander from wing to wing, but they would lock you on your wing. You had to be back on your wing by 5 p.m. So, they would lock you Now, with this third gang, the Choneros coming into the prison, it destabilized the whole and the power structure. So, this gang, the Cubanos that there was this And they started to become the Choneros, because they very powerful gang anyway. This gang, the Choneros, politicians and people and shoot opposition politician members. They were sort of hired guns, assassins. And at the time, Rafael so things were getting so he had a whole new prison estate built. There was a massive shootout one night, in which I nearly got killed. Two-hour-long gun battle between the Choneros and the Cubanos on the wing that I was on. At that time, the Sinaloa to make inroads into Ecuador. They were already trafficking particularly the Choneros. Zambrano manages to get all working with the Sinaloa cartel, and it's all going quite well. He then gets released, gets killed by a Colombian hitman. Shot dead in a cafe. Fito took over, started The Choneros. Now, in the meantime, as you start getting, the New Generation Jalisco So there's now a power struggle between the Sinaloa and the over who controls the trafficking particularly that port city, Guayaquil. There's a lot of big megalabs producing tons and tons of cocaine along the borders of both and Peru and Ecuador, and in the Amazon. And it's just huge business, huge instability in At the tail end of last year, there was some really bad prison massacres, infighting between these gangs. I mean, just the most horrific, barbaric, medieval warfare you can believe. Just absolutely horrific, horrific stuff. The Cubanos kind of got wiped out. I'm glad I wasn't there when it happened, because I'd probably be dead by now. So, that all happened. And the authorities managed to get control of the situation again. But in the meantime, there's been a new president-elect Listening to his accent, because he sounds kind of Americanized. Has declared war on the gangs in Ecuador and has basically said of internal warfare. And if you remember what when Duterte just basically declared war on the drug gangs there, or drug users as well, nearly 20,000 people, I think it was. So I think that's kind of the and that's going to lead to So, I was finally released in 2015 in Britain, out of Wandsworth. After being captured in Ecuador, I spent nine years and I did 10 years, 10 days in total on that sentence. I'd already done about three, well, about 2 1/2 on the previous one. So, that's a great big chunk of life. If I could rewind time, I would probably not do it again. You know, if there'd been more I wouldn't have been inclined If I hadn't have been that were using drugs, I'd to become involved with drugs. If the whole illegal rave There was just so many things in my life that led me to this point. I mean, I wouldn't say I mean, 3 to 5 kilos of coke, to me, is not that influential. I mean, I know underneath, when the police explained how how many people were taking that sort of made me sit back We were influencing quite Yeah. I don't know. Any kids thinking about Because it will ruin your life. It might seem appealing at the time, and it might seem like a good idea and an easy way to generate it's not an easy way to generate money. It is really difficult So, obviously I learned when I was in prison at because it gave me a trade, a lot more in prisons these days. I know they've cut a lot of but I think a lot of people could do with more of that, I'm painting and decorating. I hand-paint extremely So, if anybody needs one repainted, you can always look me up. My name's Leroy Smith. I spent 20 years in prison in the UK. I was a hit man and a drug This is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; Whoever's in the biggest gang is more likely going to win that war. There's no guns, but they've I did 20, and I just about managed to and I'm just about I was in Belmarsh from 1995. I got my sentence. When walking into Belmarsh I went straight into the unit. That's a prison inside It feels very claustrophobic, keys knocking everywhere Everything's electric, and so you feel spied upon. I was in high-security and I would defend my own self When I joined with the African Crew, I had a team of people to The African Crew got that name because most of the people And I met them in Belmarsh, and we come from the same Out in the streets, there was a full-blown sold drugs and firearms. They had money and resources, so it was more comfortable for No recruitment initiation process. We were just mutually from the same area, and we had a vested I've been stabbed in my neck. I've been cut before. I've been in the segregation for stabbings and violent I feel like I just did And when you're scared, you can do a lot of stuff. And now, I'm polite and civil, but I've got a confident energy inside me where I don't think you can No one could just come and take my life. Violence in a dispersal prison is totally different from It's clinical and thought-out and planned. People will sit down and plan things and make sure that it works in their favor when they go to execute you. That's why most people, they so no one can come in in the morning. And then they get up, and they're up and ready I've seen inmates knock out staff, like two, three staff in one go, and another staff's grabbing onto the bars to stop himself being screaming, &quot;Staff, staff,&quot; The weapons used in prison were a piece of metal shaved into a spike with a wooden handle on the end, or oil, what they used to cook food. So you've got people who ain't got money, and they might make knives so you know you can go to that person and get a knife and pay them for it. Or you might have, like, between five people, and everybody knows where CCTV is just on the landing. It's not in your cell. So anything in your cell, The searches are random, and DST, Dedicated Search Team, and they sniff around and But it's like trying to You can have one person while someone else is getting searched. So everyone's working with each other for a common goal of keeping People have been kidnapped inside prisons and inside dispersal, but it's mostly, like, two or want something from the governors, and they ain't getting it, and then they'll keep him in the cell. Or someone's got a parcel, and they ain't got no gang then rob them, and then That's the way it would happen. I spent 20 years in prison and a gun man and a drug dealer. And this culminated in in South London, in Brixton. And I got 25 years for shooting 18 for the other, 14 years for armed robbery on jewelers, five years for unlawful shooting, and two years for escaping from prison. I was on remand in Leicester prison, and I escaped from the prison when I was on escort to And then I went to Jamaica, and I came back home and was on my way to collect some money and got stopped by police. I had a firearm on me and drugs, so I tried to make with my escape. And in the process, the two I was just determined I and I just rolled the dice. It happened in a split second, I escaped from them and went to America and was eventually arrested Yeah, I've got lots of regrets, because I wasted my life and I could have been like with my own house and a family. And now, I've just got a big void, because a big chunk of Between Frankland, Full Sutton, I would get moved every 18 months or so, back and forth, to one Most people that go to they are sentenced to more than 10 years, and they are deemed by the meaning access to firearms, money. This small niche of people, they're all put into a where you will not be going anywhere apart from these four prisons. So it is easy for a gang to make a hit on another because everybody knows each other after five years of When I was in prison, I never had money. My family abandoned me, and everything, what I became a hit man in prison There'll be times when people and they don't want to If someone said to me, Stab this person,&quot; if it was something I thought I could do and get But what I could do is and subcontract that who's even more unscrupulous than me, who doesn't care about just and sitting in the block for But some of these hits go with my own eyes put a hit on someone and the hit man, after he does the hit, he turns around and tells the who paid him to do the hit. And then they reverse it now, So it can go wrong, because it's a cage and Contraband kept the prison running, kept people high or stoned, And it generates money for Chris Grayling is a MP who decided to take away tobacco and books from prisoners in the prison system. This has had a detrimental and has now made tobacco an illicit substance of great value. So a packet of tobacco, which was worth 12 pound in the canteen, is now worth 1,000 pound to an inmate who has it in his possession. Now, it's spice. This is a chemical, a drug. It's supposed to make you high. They spray it on paper and they smoke it. When I was in prison, it was cannabis and heroin and alcohol was the main intoxicants. All of them prisons destroying the prisoners When I was in prison to sell or to smoke, I sold and I took cannabis, and I took class A I've had a phone in prison. Someone brought it up for me on a visit. And I just literally had and I just literally cheeked it. I'd put it in the crease of my anus and brought it back into the prison. When I got past the I just took it and put it in my pocket and walked back to the wing. And I had it for like a few months, and then I sold it and bought A phone's worth, like, from So in each cell, it's got a vent system, but people mostly talk through that. Category B prisons, these are prisons that and the person controlling the drone, if he knows how to fly it properly, can bring it right up to with the contraband on a string. And then the person can from the cell window, and that's it. It's hard for them to really because obviously, a and deliver and be back And it's circumventing all of the systems, because it's going direct to the source. The government spent 100 million pounds on stopping contraband coming into prison. I just simply don't believe that, and I don't understand if they did spend it. And if they paid me even 10 million, I would stop it better than I made money from drug dealing, from hits. I was just making money to live and to live my life how I buy clothes, buy a watch, and and cook food, which is expensive. But I couldn't put a finger on it, but I've made money in prison. And I've had times when people have, like, I've gone to Belmarsh, and just from covering for they give me five grand literally in cash, dropped it off at In dispersal, everybody is sitting there for the next 10, 20 years. If you've got some weed, to send the money or drop it and it's done, because and no one's going anywhere. The average week, you might generate a few enough to facilitate your situation and survive without needing or pay for your living, So in what I saw, there's no structure, i.e., you have two main Like for example, when I they didn't have a leader, as an example. It was just members The African Crew had six people in prison, but the driving force will be If you're a brother then you have a ultimate, like, leverage, because that supersedes street gangs. If you're a brother, you're going to automatically because everyone looks out for everyone, and it's on the back of keeping And then on the downside, you've now picked up Now, if their enemies come to prison, you're now in that trap because to being a part of that circle. If you come to prison and you're not religious, And you might be able to get but one day, something might happen somewhere along the line. It could be something very simple. Like, you can go in a shower and forget to have boxer shorts, or you might go in the kitchen And if you want to fight back now, that's how you become and then it starts and never ends. Religion, it's nothing to do with street gangs. People come to prison and get religious because it suits them to find inner peace and to live out their That is the dynamics behind it. I am a Muslim. I took Shahada in prison. My connection with brothers in the prison is just a normal connection of faith, learning, surahs, and There is no banner called Muslim gang. I've never come across a and I served 20 years in UK prisons. So this thing is a myth. The African Crew's main rivals were some other guys from South London. Most of them was from Jamaican background, so they're English with Jamaican parents. They had, like, a 10-year war together. It's all resolved now, thank but it was very serious, and There's no loyalty amongst thieves. And you're in a prison, so your allies can be whoever So you might be in one and you're cool with them people. But when you move, another set will come. It rotates, and it can change, basically. The African Crew was because obviously, they from selling drugs. And when I did meet which what society calls Turkish mafia, they was in there for loads of heroin. But most of them have The IRA is a Irish Republican Army, yeah, and they were in the high-security estate. And they were very respected I was in Belmarsh with and then we went to Full Sutton. They've got a structure, but and they are taking orders. They're soldiers. They don't get involved in prison beef, but they will back principled arguments. So they'll push back because their word's respected. So the main rule in any gang is not to be an informer. There's no other real rules. People do whatever works for them. When you share your criminal if you're not been known or so everybody knows who you that you're not a sex Inmates who do things like in multiple ways, because I've had, like, scenarios this guy was in there, and he was in there for But when it come to light, the staff took him off the And then it was in the In England, most of the prisons in the B-Cat world, in the cities. But the highest-security prisons, dispersals are newish prisons, and they're sterile and Each cell is a single cell, It's freshly painted. In the UK, you have Category A, which is, the highest is triple Cat-A, and that is when you're with no open visits, and to take you from location to court. After that, you've got Category B. Most people that go to prison And then you've got C-Cat, which is open prisons. That's the prison system in the UK. If I could change things now, I would get spice out of the prison, and I'd give them an or a job where they can get so that they save some for when they get released. Some of my working in workshops, the company belongs to someone outside. So that's slave labor. That's slavery. I was lucky enough to be around someone. And my partner, when I was released, she was like a lawyer, and And she inspired me to write a book. So I wrote the book, took a year to write. It's called &quot;Out of the Box&quot;. And then this led to me being able to do public and talk to young people so they know not to waste their time going down this road of pain and misery. To be honest, I feel more guilty for the policeman what I shot, He's read my book, and And then we met in the train station, and I got to apologize And then he wrote his part of the story, and he added it to the book. So it's, like, really humbling that someone could forgive That was an emotional situation, And we've been communicating ever since, and that's since 2016 till now. We do talk some podcasts together, so we meet up on those occasions. And I've got his WhatsApp I've learned that life's a cycle, and you was born with nothing, and you're going to leave with nothing. And if you do good deeds, good deeds are more likely And if you do negative things, negative things are definitely Hi, I'm a producer on &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; If you enjoyed this video, and comment below with more ideas of topics