As a barista, one of the most important things you It's like a barista superpower. Machines can already dose I mean it's not going to be long but can they actually taste Today we're going to focus on the three manipulate them to make Hi, Paul here from the coffee Previously we've spoken about how to use to make it super consistent espresso. Now, if you're not familiar with the I suggest you go back to that Once you've got the basics down, you'll start to realize that maybe This is what separates a great barista day long. The ability to pop into a cafe and get that you're using. Of course learning like the difference between Brown Sugar and we're not going to go What I suggest is going along to maybe the professionally run We hold one called sensory What we are going to look at today is coffee: sweetness, acidity, At this point, it's probably worth a quick explanation Sweetness, is usually pretty straightforward but It's not like it's going to be the but sweetness can present like a Ultimately, we're trying to squeeze some sort of things in the cup. Sweet Acidity can come across a You'll hear people say things like winy-like acidity. Essentially what we're trying to do identifiable, something so the acidity might be like lemon or really enjoy. Now, bitterness can with a darker roasted coffee it might be little bit dry. Whilst in other coffees it might come that blend, a Geisha can present whilst a Robusta might Now body is something that is a little but think about the difference Skim milk is a little bit thin, but full cream is thick and creamy. So we're talking about the differences Are you with me? I feel like you're There are a lot of things that are going espresso, but we're going to The first is time. I'm talking extraction Now if your shot is running at 25 acidic, you can make the grind finer and that's Likewise, if your shot is running at 25 seconds extracted, you can make it a little bit coarser and acidity. Now I know what you're thinking. Let's just call it grind but unfortunately there are things that shot during that time as well. When This can affect the body. It so we can't always use going finer and your cup. Likewise, we can't just keep going coarser At a certain point in time, your coffee is going to be overly under weak. And this is when we need to look at Now the second variable we're talking coffee that goes in the group handle, Now if you've got a 20 gram what's going to happen is going to add more body. But what can happen is the acidity something that's sharp and sour now from is you develop your coffee a little bit a higher quality, better fruity acidity, but this can come at You might end up with something Now think about it like this, at 20 so you're essentially extracting each and when you take a gram out down to 19 coffee a little bit more. And this the balance, and the body in that coffee. Now the third and final factor is the 'out'. Now with a 40 gram shot and you add what's going to happen is you're going and this can result in more but can also dry out your espresso. From 40 grams we go down to 38 you acidity. Now remember if it develops a coffee a little bit more. And if you take the extraction it develops the coffee a little bit less. Now what do we do with My advice is to start with And the place I start normally is So if your coffee isn't tasting sweet bring a little bit more sweetness out, and if your coffee is tasting maybe go a little bit coarser and But remember, we can't just So sometimes I will work with the If your coffee is tasting really then take a little bit of coffee out of development in that coffee, and it'll taste super good. Or if your coffee's too add a little bit more coffee and that's more acidity. Ultimately, this comes down to time and practice and mind. And eventually you get a rhythm where know what you need to do on the fly, and you'll get to a point where you may make that espresso balance right Don't put so much pressure on yourself Now of course, there are going Sometimes it's a stale bag of coffee or or maybe it's a bag of coffee that's and you're trying it black and it just That's not necessarily that's just the coffee being more suited the other. Some things are just Tell me in the comments section below dial in coffee flavor, and while you're We've got heaps more of these videos