Now I will take you to the beautiful farm to eat fresh herbs, how are you, mom? Be safe . The goats bothered me a lot. Wait. Don't be in a hurry, raise your hand, you imitate the sound of an animal every hour.: horse, mule, goat, chicken and rooster, our goats came here today? No Arash, bring me the broom. The dogs scared the goats and scattered them. It was hard to get them away from the farm. Look at this poor thing, I'm so thirsty. I had to take the goats there. We slept at dawn. Where were you? We were at Ali Saleh's place. Nasro forgot to set the phone alarm. Zahra and Ali Saleh didn't wake up either? We all fell asleep, wasn't Zahra there? Where was? At his own house , a few chickens hatched. Mom, take care of the children. We will go to the village and bring the water tanker. My daughter, please change the water in the muskets. Stay with grandma and help her. Arash and Abbas stay with me while we drive away the goats. Bring the green hose. You are very beautiful, my daughter. hug me, my dear girl, you are beautiful, soon your clothes will be ready, my girl, bring the hose, we will also bring the water tanker, we have to go there, it's good, take it, Marzieh, bring it, my girl, I have to tie it in the tool box, a teflon tape Bring me a sole, yes, my girl? Put the hose in the water tank, take it , Cobra, get me a tub, baby, hurry, the donkeys are thirsty, this metal net is very heavy. It's bothering us, we have to take it , okay, take it, take the stick next to Kashin, God, help, God, help, he fell very badly, dear girl, from which side did you fall? What has happened? Marzieh has fallen from the roof, may God kill me because of you, my dear girl, don't cry, my dear girl, calm down, my daughter fell very badly, get up, my dear , help me, my dear, get up, my beautiful girl, calm down, why weren't you careful, my dear? Did he hit the ground with his face? Yes Did he fall off the ladder? No. He fell from the roof, my dear girl, calm down, don't cry, my dear, I described the beauty of the disease and this happened. Every time I talk about the good things of my children, something bad happens to them (this refers to the belief in the evil eye). )) damn me It is my fault, thank God that your teeth were not damaged, my dear daughter, you will be fine now, my dear daughter, sit down, dear, my children are constantly sick and injured, it was my fault. He fell from the roof quite suddenly. Now I will call Mahmoud to come and take you to the doctor, there is no need, I told you a thousand times not to wear beautiful clothes because something bad will happen, what kind of superstition is this, believe me, he always attracts everyone's attention when he wears beautiful clothes and something bad happens It happens to him, let it go, may God kill me for you, my dear girl, shall I come to your aid? No, I'll bring it myself. I'm a little hungry. Where should we put it in the car? Put it up in this corner, it's too heavy, go and put the firewood in a corner, it's no use, the wire net will fall, I'll close the car door, Kabri, get on top of Marzia's car , don't go , Kabri, help Marzia, dear, God is with us, beloved watch out it scared me where are the kids At the bottom of my field, I am so thirsty that I can't move. Go rest. The goats bothered me a lot. Marzia fell to the ground. Did God help him ? He fell from the roof to the ground, my daughter, are you okay? Honey, are you not hurt? how are you my daughter I'm fine. I talked about her beauty and this happened. You shouldn't have said anything. Bring the hose so I can move the car and transfer the water into the tank. Wait, my dears, come on, which part is the door of the pen? Do not dig there . Wait for now, last year's pen was very big. Make it smaller this year Calm down, we have to install another stick here. Put the sticks close together so that the wolves don't cross the fence. Where was the wolf? Did you forget last year's wolf? Why do you think the wolf will not come this year? Place a stick in this area too, bring the skewer from there, give it to me, bring a stone, Nasru, look, I made a pickaxe better than you, Marzieh, come, Marzieh, answer him, my daughter, come, I'm coming now , wait a little while I move the soil. I want to bring a thick stick Nasro, what are you making? I am making a pen for the goats. Hello , hello. welcome how are you How are you? Thankful. you are good? How are you ? How are you? How are you? Thank you. We want to build a pen for the goats so that they can eat grass and not enter the other fields. Give me the pickaxe. You are fasting. There is no problem, you are also fasting. They fasted without eating suhoor. I thought, I will call you tonight and I won't let you sleep. Farida woke us up yesterday . He has gone to visit Yusuf , is Yusuf's wife okay? Thank God, he is fine. God had mercy on Yusuf. God had mercy on Yusuf's wife. Yusuf's condition was very bad because of his wife's illness. He was very bad. I didn't know that poor Froud was also bad. The weather is cloudy. It was supposed to rain yesterday, but there was no news. Goats. They ate most of the farm produce by the time we got back from Rocky Mountain Are you moving to Rocky Mountain this year? God willing, I will go. This net is too heavy. Tie the beginning of the net right here. We should keep a part for the cage door. It doesn't matter which side we put the net on. Is the length of the net too long? crush Part of it is extra, we can also use it for the goat pen, it is not suitable, you should put another stick here and wrap the net around the sticks, give it to me, this net is too heavy and annoying, wait, you have to fasten it tightly, I hope it will rain soon, if God wills it will rain, wait a little, the material of this wire net is excellent and it will not be damaged, tie the net here using the wire to close it, the weather is cold, it will rain soon, the goats Take it away dear, it is not fixed, don't worry. It doesn't move. Tie it higher. Give it to me. The pen you built is too small. We don't have many goats. Did Arslan stay here last night? No, he went to Arslan, he asked us how the grandmother was. It has started to rain. Thank God. Thank God for the rain. Go inside the tent so as not to get wet. It is cold. Go my children, God has it for me and you who are short, it is raining, you and I did not grow, height does not matter. A person should have wisdom, Mukhtar is mocking us, what is he saying? God says that it will rain for you short people, so that you grow up, go inside Nasru's tent , come and close this. Are you also celebrating for your father? They celebrated his birthday, don't you have anything to do with us? Thank you very much, may God be with you. Thank you very much. We have to go to wash the sheep. Otherwise, we would have stayed for more help. Thank you very much. Goodbye. May God be with you, Ali. Go sit in front of the car. It's raining, bye, be careful, let me help you, I'll put it behind the tree myself, use the lever. It's heavy, don't do it my son. It is heavy, where is the wood, it is here , my daughter, bring the hammer to break the stone, be careful, be careful that it does not hit your face, don't worry, Prizad, come this way. I'm afraid you will get hurt, Nasro and you two can move the stone We have to put a rock under it, put pressure on the lever, be careful , wait a little, look at this, Nasru, it is dangerous. Be careful not to damage it, move that stone too, break that stone too, I told you not to do this, as soon as the tradition increases, your back pain will start, my love, give it to me so that I can put it here, give me the wire, my daughter, be patient do. Move the stick a little. It is good to close these parts with wire. Be careful not to place the blocks on the other side of the wall. It is difficult to collect them, use a pickaxe, all the plaster parts of the wall must be destroyed, there is still water, come on , just put the handbrake on, he is the driver, he said the right thing , that's right, take the goat . You always repeat this, I close the door myself