(upbeat music) - Whenever people ask to cook at home, the answer is always So I got very excited was developing a new roast chicken recipe. - Julia, roast chicken is fantastic and it's so easy, it's I do feel like people sometimes of a roast chicken, and that's what we're - Ooh. - I know you're curious. - I'm really curious. What have I been missing? - Before we get to that, let's I'm keeping it really simple I've got two and a half and a half teaspoon of I just wanna stir them together so there's no cross-contamination. Now I've got a four pound chicken here. Before we start cooking, I wanna do a little bit of trimming. There's a lot of fat on this bird that we don't really need, The fat in the cavity, you can just kind of comes right off. Which nice. I also check the neck and make sure there isn't a ton of skin. I have a friend who refers (Julia laughs) and this looks like a mock turtleneck, so we're gonna leave it alone. But if it's longer, you So that best part of the chicken that I was alluding to - Oh, that makes sense. - Right? They often get left behind in the pan, but we're not gonna do that today. What I want is for the to not stay trapped under the skin, but for them to hit the There, they'll concentrate, reduce, they undergo maillard browning and pick up some beautiful color. It's exactly what we want. - Oh, so you're gonna - Extra drippings. And the way to do that is to in the skin so that the instead of getting So this little bit right here, you can almost think of it I'm just gonna put a little Any knife will do. That's it. Really simple, - [Julia] Really small. - Quick, quick poke. That's all you need. I wanna feel for the thigh, and right up here where the I'm gonna put a little poke. And that's it. Nice and simple. - Really clever. - And I'm just gonna repeat Just gonna tuck the wings. It'll give the bird a little stability and protect them a little bit. And I'm gonna use our seasoning mix. A third of that salt and pepper mixture is gonna go into the cavity. - [Julia] Great. And now I'm gonna brush one tablespoon of melted unsalted butter onto the top and sides of the bird. You often see oil instead of butter, but I think the milk solids Gets you a nice burnished color. So that looks pretty good. Nice and simple. Little more seasoning. - [Julia] So you're not really just the front and the - Yeah, there's not much meat on the back. I wanna make sure the thighs are seasoned, and the breasts, and the Julia, I've got a half a in a 12 inch skillet, and I'm Just want this oil to shimmer. I find that a 12 inch skillet is great for a four pound bird. Oil's looking a little wavy, we're ready. Just gonna pop this bird right in. (pan sizzles) (Julia chuckles) - [Julia] That's a hot pan. - Sure is, and it's hot for a good reason. What's happening right the cook for the dark meat. It's gonna make sure that at the same time as the breast. So we're gonna pop this on the middle rack. It'll roast until the breasts Takes about an hour, maybe and halfway through, I'm gonna go in and rotate that skillet. - Okay, now that's a little that we usually roast chicken breasts to. So what's the difference here? - So what we've learned over time is that when you roast a chicken or any cut of meat in a hot oven, it tends to carry over a lot more. And at 400 degrees, I can to take that bird all the way up to 160, which is where I wanna serve it at. - [Julia] Sounds good. - Are you ready to take your - [Julia] Introducing the TV Show Cookbook, featuring of America's test kitchen. That's thousands of recipes. - Nut texture's unbelievable. - [Julia] Reviews. - Gadgets you didn't know you needed, - [Julia] And tips. - Yes, there's some terrible choices, but they're also some amazing choices. - We've spilled all of our secrets and included our insider - [Julia] Plus there's So you know exactly what to - And of course it - [Julia] Get your copy today - Ho hoo. - [Lan] Right? See that skin bubbling away? - [Julia] That is a looker. - [Lan] It sure is. - [Julia] Oh Lan. - [Lan] How great does that look? Check out the color on those juices. - [Julia] I've never seen that much juice come out of a single roast chicken before. - Now I'm gonna leave the towel and we're gonna keep using the skillet to make our side with those juices. But first, let's get this outta We'll let this bird rest for 15 minutes and in that time, carry over - [Julia] All right. - So let's get these drippings Let the fat rise to the top. So this has separated nicely. I'm gonna measure out about - [Julia] There you go. - Okay, great. Spoon out two teaspoons - [Julia] Mmmmmm, adding the That's a good sign. - Delicious. So I'm going to add four I'm going to set this to medium low. I just wanna gently toast out that garlic. I'm not looking for a ton of color. I just wanna take that heat off. This usually takes maybe three minutes. I'm going to add three quarters of a cup of couscous to this. I like to use couscous or maybe bulgar or quinoa would also work. They're all starches that cook quickly and I wanted to make that we could get on the table fast. Just a quick stir. All I'm doing here is making sure that the grains are all coated in fat. This will minimize clumping Time for our drippings. Now these are actually so concentrated that we're gonna dilute them with water. So that was three quarters Now I'm gonna season of red wine vinegar and a Just a quick stir. Now I just want this and I wanna make sure that Anything that isn't Last ingredient, I've got of jarred roasted red peppers. I've just run a knife through Gonna scatter this right over the top. It's a nice quick way to get some color and flavor on top of here. I'm just gonna shut this off. Would you mind handing me that lid? - There you go. - [Lan] Thank you. This couscous is going to take about 10 minutes to cook through Julia, this chicken has and it gives me just enough time to carve this while the - [Julia] Okay. - [Lan] I am just going For now, I'm just gonna run Look at this cook. So juicy. - [Julia] My goodness, mmmmmhmm. - Couscous has been and you can see that all has been absorbed. So we give it a quick toss, fluff it up. This looks great. We'll add two tablespoons of chopped basil just for a little color - [Julia] Oh, lovely. - [Lan] And we're done. - [Julia] Lan, that is a beautiful thing because that is dinner - [Lan] Alright, Julia. - [Julia] Oh good, you gave me the wing. Leaving the wing on and I mean, it's perfect for a weeknight. - [Lan] Let's eat, a little - [Julia] That couscous is so pretty. - [Lan] Yeah, it's but it looks great. It looks like you spent more - [Julia] It does actually. First off, I love how crisp the skin is. That nice brown skin on top. That's hard to do. I'm going right in. - [Lan] Great. - Yeah. - So inviting. - Mmmmmmm. It is perfectly cooked the breast is good and juicy. Mmmmmmm. - So much more flavorful than you'd think, considering how little work it is. - [Julia] Yeah, there's a depth of flavor thanks to all those juices that you added. - [Lan] That's nice and savory. You get that hit of acidity. - Oh, and I love the fresh Lan, this is a delicious - You're welcome. - [Julia] If you wanna make for roast chicken, start by Get this skillet ripping hot And use the drippings to From America's Test Kitchen, Lan's all new recipe for roast chicken with and basil, you've updated We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take your cooking to the next level, head over to Americastestkitchen.com and get a free all - While you're there, you can sign up for our free email newsletters and download our app. - With unlimited access to over 14,000 of our test kitchen recipes you'll have everything you - So I ask, what are you waiting for? - Let's make something great together.