The hearty rice is a big seller! Great value for money and tasty too! Here you go! Eggs inside! Supporting the stomachs of all generations It was delicious. All of it. Delicious liver. Raw liver from Shonai. Very tasty! It's so good! I think it looks fancy. I think it's a simple seasoning Repeaters come from all over Japan! Tokyo, Japan Noodle restaurant Tawara-meshi 10:50 a.m. Pork belly Hayamizu Tawara, owner of the restaurant Good morning, good morning! Vegetables arrive Thank you, I will try to get some more! Fill water pitcher with ice Barley tea Water Today's the day. It's the weekend. It's Saturday and Sunday. Basically, today's the day. Preparation is vegetable-based The big preparation is Oil the wok We opened our house 17 years ago In the beginning, it was a normal amount. We started with a normal amount. We've already got Tokyo Gakugei University right in front of us. A member of the football team there came to see me He said, &quot;Don't you have a big bowl?&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Oh, I didn't set that up.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, I'll just take $50.00.&quot; I heaped up about 3 cups for him. And he was so happy. I was like, &quot;Oh, my God, he's so happy just to serve rice. And from there, I'd chop it up into small pieces, like a regular large, medium, and small. If you made a whole bunch of sizes and did something It's like right now. It's like that. The biggest one isn't marked anymore. When I hold it and it's heavier, it says baleful. I mean, if it's a bale of rice, it's probably just rice. I think it would be something like that. Preparing the rice Grinding rice with water Seasonings are set next to pot Cooking wine We only have 8 seats in the restaurant It depends on whether it's pork or chicken So, in terms of meat as a whole, it's about 20 kilograms in a day. Even though it was 30 minutes before opening Great turnout today. The one that comes every once in a while. Long green onions Cutting long green onions Put the tops of the leeks into the Chinese broth Organizing ingredients Cleaning around the table Aprons wrapped and ready to go Opening the store curtains 11:30 opening of store 8 seats at the counter inside the restaurant Terrace seating Fluffy egg and jarred rice 950 yen Gokujo negireba meshi 1,300 yen Rice with tri-color garlic and salt sauce1350 yen Uma Tamago-yaki &amp; Meat Miso Rice Y=1,380 Chicken and pork rice with starchy sauce: 1,580 yen Deca-karaage 300 yen Chashu egg rice 1480 yen Rice size is free up to medium-large (less than 3 cups of rice) Bale size 2,000 yen Lots of orders come in since opening Oil is added to the wok Boils pork Add seasonings to eggs Eggs are mixed Add chopped green onion to egg mixture Soybean white strained oil arrives Customers arrive one after another Rice Boiled pork Adding pork to eggs Cook eggs in wok While turning the wok Serving eggs over rice making sauce with starchy sauce pouring sweet and sour sauce on top of rice Tenshin rice with pork spoon Sauce poured generously over Here you go! Tenshindon with pork. Soup set. Large battered chicken pieces deep fried in oil Rice Thank you for waiting! Abura-gon-chicken rice Oil gonorrhea sauce and soup Large chicken Eggs and rice stir-fried in wok Stir-frying while pressing down on the pan with the bottom of the ladle Add seasonings Fried rice is placed on a plate Add seasonings, pork and Chinese broth Potato starch dissolved in water Served over fried rice fried rice with starchy sauce Here you go! Please wait a moment for the half ramen! Putting noodles in Chinese soup Shredded green onion Thank you for waiting! Putting noodles in a colander for boiling Add green onions to eggs Owner skillfully prepares the dish Large fried chicken Chopping fried chicken Thanks a lot! Thank you very much! It's my first time coming to your store. I'd seen it on TV. I didn't get a chance to go there very often. The sweet and sour sauce was light. And there's a huge amount of meat. It's a great value, and it tastes great. It was a lot, but I felt like I could eat it all in one sitting. Steamed chicken with leek and bean sprouts raw egg Tenshinhan with steamed chicken, leek and bean sprouts Rice with tri-color garlic and salt sauce Thank you for waiting It's rice with garlic and salt sauce Thank you. Delivery staff Pork-leek dipping noodle soup Boil noodles Chop chashu pork into small pieces Boil noodles in cold water to firm them up Two men arrive at the restaurant Ordering menu Thank you for waiting 2 noodles with pork and green onion, served cold. Free up to 2 balls of pork green onion tsukemen. Cold Chinese noodles in hot pork/green onion broth. Steaming noodles stimulate the appetite. Sipping noodles with soup. Now holding the bowl and slurping the noodles Two balls of noodles The momentum of bringing the noodles to the mouth does not stop Finally, the soup is completely consumed. Browning the noodles to a golden brown Cabbage Komatsuna (Japanese mustard spinach) Stir-fried with pork, mini corn, shiitake mushrooms, kikurage mushrooms potato starch Ankake yakisoba Thank you! I usually ask for a thickened type Fried rice with starchy sauce Fried rice with starchy sauce Once a week, usually comes in on a Saturday. I come twice a week at the most. Homemade thick-cut chashu pork Three eggs seasoning Oil pepper rice Original sauce Chashu egg rice Additional soup Thank you very much! bale of rice Thank you for waiting! Bale rice! I haven't been here in 10 years With the same taste. I think what's changed is my capacity has changed. I go to college. I'm from my hometown. I knew I grew up here. I ate a full meal and came here after club activities Remembering how we did it. Thank you! Chinese soup I'll put the set of soup here Homemade thick-cut chashu pork Deep-fried chashu pork in oil Large dishes are washed as the store is turned Is a small portion of rice enough? ordinary medium? Yes, please. I'll put the soup over here. Two alumni of the football team came to the restaurant Shiitake mushrooms Eggs green onion pepper Making fried rice Fried rice Pork, mini corn, shiitake mushrooms, kikurage mushrooms, Chinese noodles, boiled Chinese noodles are put into a pot Gomoku tanmen Thank you for waiting! gohan bean sprouts Raw liver This is raw liver from Shonai It's one that's never been frozen. It's a very fresh one. It's very tasty! It is very tasty! Heat up the oil Mix liver with seasonings and eggs Liver battered and deep-fried in oil seasoning Fry ingredients Chinese soup Potato starch pepper Stir-fried rice with extraordinarily high chive liver 1,300 yen Please take care and take it home! Thank you very much! Combined rice with oil gonorrhea and superb green onion liver Pretty much everyone's first time First time, or maybe second time I've been wanting to go for a while I'm a student at the College of Arts and Sciences. I'm just saying I'm finally here. I'm looking forward to it quite a bit. Chives are quickly blanched in Chinese broth Chives, pork and eggs Sprinkle raayu on top Pork belly with leek and egg rice Here you go! Here you go. Thank you! Negireba today I thought I'd try a variety of foods for now It was delicious, all of it. Liver is delicious. Soft egg Chicken fried rice with garlic and salt sauce Chicken with garlic and salt sauce rice. Eggs inside. This is egregious. Fried rice with plenty of vegetables with meat Rice with meat and vegetables The volume and taste are delicious! The inside of the rice size is Next time I'd like to have a large portion of rice. Cooking more and more rice while we're open for business Sprinkling nilla lebas on top of rice Make a dent in the... Topping with a raw egg Fried rice with leek and liver stamina Rice topped with fluffy egg onion on rice Saute onions and pork Add Chinese soup and seasonings Add curry powder Add potato starch dissolved in water to thicken Rice with soft-boiled egg and pork curry A huge plate overflowing with We will eat it! The first bite is To be able to enjoy this volume in the daytime... And next Thank you for the meal! Oh no! (Staff) When you were active? It still tastes good The curry roux was amazing today I only brought home the curry roux I wanted to eat it at home. American football team at the University of Arts and Sciences SNAILS. Department members wanted! These two are. One of them is in Tokyo. The other one is in some other region When they come all the way over here. The alumni. So I'm happy. In my mind, they've already I always say, &quot;I graduated three years ago, right?&quot; Or, &quot;Oh, it was nine years ago.&quot; I see! I see!&quot; And They're all stopping there. For example, if it's a boy You graduate and come into the workforce Bring your girlfriend. Come and say I'm your wife. Come and bring your children and your family so I can see that. Some people go out of their way to come back each time. I'm very happy about that. Meat Tenshindon with pork Wow! Superb green onion-leaf rice Here it is! Fried rice with chicken and garlic Fried rice with pork belly and leek egg Seasonings in a bowl Boil Chinese noodles bean sprouts Pouring Chinese soup into a bowl draining hot water from a bowl Places noodles and bean sprouts in bowl Green onion Homemade thick-cut chashu pork Seaweed Tawara-meshi no-muten ramen 900 yen The supple thin noodles are Thick homemade chashu pork Simple but full of flavor 14:30 Drink offer from a regular customer Did I win? Amazing! I love umami egg &amp; meat miso rice! (Staff) You ate a lot today Yes, sir. I can eat it because it's from Tawarameshi. I want to keep it simple. I think it looks fancy I think it's a simple seasoning I think that might be a sticking point. Even if it looks like this. Somewhere one place It could be a taste or a flavor. I'm making it with the idea that it would be nice if there was a little something in there somewhere. Thank you very much! Continuing to support the stomachs of many generations