- What's up everybody. It's Enes here. Welcome to another episode. This week's video is very special. We are here in Hollywood arguably one of the most here in Los Angeles. This home has six bedrooms, nine baths, 11,184 square feet of interior space, built on a 38,965 square foot lot. And this property is currently on the market for $32 million. We will leave more information about the property down And before we start our tour, I wanna thank the developer, and all the listing agents for allowing us to tour their amazing listing. Now let's begin. (quietly intense music) This home is nicely set and we have the gates opening up to the private driveway of this home. Driveway is nicely landscaped And going this way we have the staircase bringing us to the front entry, and as we follow the cobblestone driveway, it brings us to the plenty of parking, and going this way, this is where we have the front entry. Here we can get a peek of the which is very unique, but Now this hallway takes us to the entry courtyard of this home, which is very warm and inviting. And as we come up here, we a lot of natural stones, and this space was designed and change your mood as Right here, we have a with solid oak pivoting front door. Now, let's go inside. All right everyone, here Before we start our tour, I wanna briefly talk about This home consists of three all joined together to Right now we're inside where we have the formal living room area. In architectural terminology, these structures are called volumes. So you'll be hearing me as we tour the property. Now, before we start talking why don't we go this way taking this up to the and where we have the powder Beautiful natural stone vanity set up. They use the same natural And Mikey, can you come closer? They use the same stone also Gorgeous. Now let's go back to the and the scale of this room, the natural light coming We have oak siding wrapping all the way to floor-to-ceiling glass, looking towards the and right here is where vein-cut travertine floors And I wanna briefly As we entered the property, which is a little bit lower ceiling comparing to the vaulted ceiling at the main section of the The architect designed it this way so that when you enter the property, you're not overwhelmed because we have 30-foot So as you walk in, first you and then you open up the space and you're immediately drawn They even installed this to really pull your attention towards the incredible views of the city. Right here we have a seating area, and as we go this way, we have another formal living room area. Before we talk about that, there's a really cool detail I wanna show. Mikey, can we pan to We have travertine tiles that beautifully blends in the Going this way, all opened up to the floor to ceiling glass And this is another cozy lounging space. Again, the volume here, and right in front of the seating area is where we have the board Looks gorgeous. You can actually see the patterns in the grains of the wood right here. Really adds warmth and - [Mikey] I got a One, what are these holes about? Two, typically we see these these seams right here are typically overflowing with concrete. Did they sand this smooth? 'Cause this kinda has a different look than what we're used to seeing. - Well, those are both Number one, these are where that actually holds the forms together, because when you pour So you wanna make sure as you pour your concrete. Second part is, when you do these concrete and you want it to have when you have your planks, you actually put silicone in between, so when you pour the concrete, concrete doesn't oozes out. So you have the texture, Generally we're used to seeing this finish on retaining walls. This is a little bit harder to do. It takes more work. Obviously you've got to run but the end product with a So we have a hallway right here joining the center volume to the volume on the left-hand side, Another lounging area and bar area. Same concrete fireplace And there's another fireplace on this side for this entertainment area right here. I love the bar section. It's kind of recessed open on top, with a stone open shelving with LED lighting underneath it. We have all the cabinetry here. Your sink set up. Mikey, our favorites, Check it out. - [Mikey] Get a look at that. - There you go. - [Mikey] We got my - Exactly. This is where you have your spirits, and I always appreciate this detail, when developers put a - Yeah, that's always nice. So this volume, this section of the home And right next door is where Now this is a really nice movie theater. It's a good mix of a lounge We have three tier plush carpet, suede walls. You can easily accommodate This is where you have your projector. And I really liked that so you see where you're going. Now, let's go back to the bar area. All right, everyone, like I mentioned, this section is all about amenities. Right here we have another area, glass sliding doors opening to the side of the property. And right here is where Oak hardwood floors, nice and open space. We have the mirror wall right here. TV is mounted on this side. This is where you get your workout done. Nice little storage area. And just imagine working you wanna cool yourself off. Guess what? You have your minute fridge. You grab yourself a nice cold drink and enjoy your house. Now this space, these pocket all the way to the We have olive trees on each side and ficus trees that gives And right in the center, we have this awesome, I thought that was a really cool detail. And again, complementing your gym area, nice and open, you can Of course, this amazing gym which is right here. Marble slabs everywhere. We have marble on the We have the floating with the same marble as the and I personally love with the shampoo niche that And at the end of this hallway, we have another storage closet. Now let's go back out to the lounge area. And again, this volume the looking towards the view, Even this space right here opens up, these glass panels pivot and We'll talk more on that later. Now, another cool detail of this home, each one of these volumes with this hallway. And right now we're in the center volume. And before we go to the looking towards the view, we have the powder room right here. Again, clad with natural stone. I love the texture on it, and they use the same natural stone to fabricate this with a hidden drain and brass fixtures. Now, right next door is where dining area, and the kitchen. We are in the volume, on the facing towards the view, and the same vein-cut travertine floors Again, we have a family room, and this space also where we have opening up towards the view. This is another lounging area. This is where we have the TV, and between this area and the kitchen is where we have another informal dining eating kitchen area. And now I wanna talk about We don't have any two-tone cabinetry here. Everything is very sleek I love the countertop with the waterfall edge. And they also use the same countertop as the backsplash here. Mikey, I have a cool detail for you. As I was touring this home because when you have islands, you've gotta have plugs, right? And I couldn't find any, I couldn't find any plugs on the side. Guess what? Can we get a close up here? Cool little detail. And even this drawer is soft close. Plenty of storage on this side. Again, natural stone countertops with beautiful waterfall edge. And going this way this is with vent above it. Right behind me we have the kitchen sink. They use the same also here, also as a backsplash. And I love how they kind magnifying the natural stone, and they use the same material to create this floating shelf design with LED lighting as well Right next to the kitchen sink, your Miele dishwasher right here. And at the end of this kitchen is where we have the fridge Overall, I love this space, all open, very cozy, very inviting. Again, even from your kitchen, you can enjoy the incredible Now let's go back to the hallway, and right underneath that staircase is where we have the wine cellar. This is a 200-bottle wine cellar. As you guys can hear it's And I really like how they to maximize the storage capacity here. Now, going back to the hallway, right behind the main the chef's kitchen, the caterer's kitchen. It is literally a small We have the same finishes same countertops and backsplash. Right here we have a wine fridge. Another one of these, You've got your sink. You have your pot filler, induction cooktop, your vent above it, and plenty of microwave And let's not forget is where we have the pantry space. Here's another detail that I really like. Generally, these caterer kitchens are tucked behind the main kitchens, they're closed off, they're Even the caterer's kitchen here gets plenty of natural light. Nice and spacious. Now going back to the we have another powder room. We have a fabricated floating with LED lit mirror. right across, laundry room. Two washers, two dryers. Cabinets above. Plenty of countertop space. And right here we have They used butcher's block here. I thought that was a little unique touch with a drop-in (knocking) cast iron sink with fixed wall faucet. This is kinda like an old-school touch with more modern finishes, with a backsplash and some Now this hallway continues. And right in front one of the two car garages of this home. Clean epoxy floors. Again, these garage doors open up to the motor court of this home that we showed at the Right here we have another hallway that is taking us to an access as well as the other two-car And we have a mudroom right and another staircase going up to the second floor of this home. Let's take this one real quick. Up the stairs is where The reason we wanted to the only way to access here And we are, in fact, right that are front facing. And it's a really good size room. Right here I wanna mention, You can get a small fridge right here. Let's go this way. This is where we have the walk-in closet. Again, very spacious, In fact, not only you can you can use it as staff quarters, because it's really secluded And it's a very spacious room. Right here, we have They use Calacatta all the way to a walk-in shower, and they use the same marble to fabricate this beautiful floating vanity And we have the walk-in shower and again, hidden drains. Overall, gorgeous bathroom. And that wraps our tour on Now let's take the stairs, go back to the main volume, where we have the formal living room area and continue our tour. All right everyone, so we where we have the formal living room area. Overall, I love the but particularly this area And I love how the wood cladding all the way towards this In fact, why don't we and check out the backyard. (relaxing music) All right, everyone, now opened up to the backyard space. These doors are really cool. Actually, once you open them up, they stay in this position and And now we have that and each one of these volumes carries out to their own patio spaces, and they use the same like just like the first to create that perfect Right here we have another board formed concrete fire pit, perfectly focused towards that this backyard gets. And on each side we and again, patio spaces that complement each section of the home. I'm not gonna go there, but on the right-hand side, we actually have a barbecue area where you can access it And let's talk about this This is a 73-feet infinity edge pool, all focused towards the We have the baja shelf right here, spa on this side. And right here, we have to the deep side of the pool. And what's nice about it You're either looking or if you're facing the other side, you're looking towards the of this home. And in fact, from here, we at the overall exterior look of this home. So I wanna briefly talk about that. The design and the setting And this three gable is something I've never seen before. Floor-to-ceiling glass, all And this three gable design is actually a little bit And we have space in on the inside, allows the architects to position the staircase, powder rooms, as well as that beautiful By doing that, each space feels more open and actually draws your And lastly, that gap that space actually joins vertically and kinda uniforms This property is, again, very unique, incredible architecture. And the setting right here is also what makes this home so special. We're up on a knoll, looking towards the entire city, all the way from the ocean to downtown LA. We are elevated enough but yet only three minutes You're in the heart of the city, minutes away from Beverly Hills. Overall, this land, the is very special, and that wraps our tour for the backyard of this home. I hope everybody's If you do, make sure to give us a like. If you have any questions or input, leave us a comment below. If you haven't already, make sure to subscribe to our channel. We literally tour incredible every single week here in California. Soon, we will also be traveling And if you don't want to make sure to hit the Now, let's take the stairs (relaxing music) - All right everyone, so we're back inside here as just like I mentioned, at we have a staircase right here taking us up to the And just like we talked we have the space between each volume, right here where we have the staircase and the skylight bringing as you come up to the So on my left-hand side, we have the left structure where we have all the guest suites, and on the right-hand side we have the master bedroom. We're gonna start right here. With this bedroom, currently Vaulted ceilings, this room And just imagine having looking towards the view every single day and getting work done. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's pretty incredible. It's a little bit hazy today, but you can imagine what this view would be like if it wasn't. - I mean, if I had an office like this, I would literally work all the time. - [Mikey] I think we already I don't know if this would actually help. - (laughing) I know, right. It would kinda make things worse, but in case you're sick of this view and you want some privacy, guess what? You have automatic shades We wanted to show it right here. - [Mikey] Yeah, we really to you guys earlier. We have them in all the rooms off the theater, living room. - They have it everywhere. All right, let's push and right here, although this room is outfitted as an office, this is still a bedroom. You still get a walk-in closet. This is a door that accesses that is shared by all the guest bedrooms. We'll show that later. And right here is where Again, beautiful natural stone finishes, floating vanity design, and the same natural stone is carried all the way to the walk in Now, let's go back to the Again, we're on the looking towards the view, and the door on my right-hand Oak hardwood floors are on this level. Great space. Again, plenty of natural light right here is where we have the walk-in closet, and going across this bedroom also has an en-suite bathroom. Each one of these bathrooms the natural stone in this house. The elements are just we get a floating vanity set up here and just like the other they carried out the same stones all the way into the showers. In this case, you actually you get your shampoo niche. They're all timeless pieces. And like I mentioned in the office, you've got an outdoor deck here. Come on in. This outdoor space is shared that are on this level. Views are nicely elevated and it's nice to have an outdoor space for these bedrooms on the second floor. Now, going back inside. Next door is the third Each one of these bedrooms They all get ton of natural light. Again, they all have an Right here is where we Same oak hardwood floors are also here. Built-in shades are also here, another en suite bathroom. Different kind of stone, finishes with the floating vanity, and the same stone, again, was carried up all the way I mean, they're all very special showers, with the shampoo niche, hidden drains, very elegant clean designs. Now let's go back to the hallway. And on our right-hand side, we have another storage closet. And this is the landing, the loft area right above This section is really cool. You get an overlook at your and you can kind of really because you are closer The wood gives so much warmth and adds up to the and you can really get a good feel of that from this loft area, looking to the scale of this And right here almost serves We have a seating section right here. Walls are perfect to feature your art. And going this way, this is kinda scary, but we actually have a glass walkway here. I can see the front door from here. This is allowing the natural light from this section of the glass to bring it to the entry of this home. Something unique, seeing it in this house, Now this way, on our left-hand side, we have the staircase coming and this door opens up So on my right-hand side, we have the bedroom and two closets, on my left-hand side we So let's start this way. We have some storage area and this is where we have They use the Calacatta marble for this floating vanity design. And they used the same the sinks with hidden drains. Same marble was also used And Mikey, if you get a pan up right here, that marble is nicely flush And if you look above that, we actually have skylights to the master bathroom. Overall, great design, plenty of storage. And I love how they left each side of the floating vanity open for you to stack your towels. On our right-hand side, and going this way, they wrapped around this wall, and we are behind the And this is where we I mean, they bookmatched the slabs from the floors to the walls It's all marble, looks And they use the same marble to create this bench design right here, tucked all the drains underneath it. Mikey, we need to pan up for a second. And it's not for just the rain heads. This is such a cool detail. Right in the center they They didn't wanna leave for that opening. Instead, they used the same marble and custom designed and - [Mikey] That's pretty cool. And it's just like the floors I'll call it. - Yeah, it's a great design. And it, again, goes with the And in this shower, we We have two handhelds, shower heads, rain heads above us. Overall, great bathroom. Gets natural light from the both sides. And going this way, this is where we have Again, they use the same marble, nicely flush, recessed into the walls. And this is a good size freestanding tub. And we have a floor mount Of course, we're in Hollywood Hills, your tub overlooks Now we have another hallway here. And the door on our left-hand side opens up to the bigger master closet. This is one of the two, and I love the millwork here. It's all uniformed. It's all neutral colors, but of course, functionality is important. You have everything. You have storage, you have your mirrors, you have your open shelving, and you have this gorgeous perfect for your jewelry and everything. Mikey, can we get a close up here? Perfect for your watches. You have all the functionality you need. You have your hanger space, - [Mikey] And the little - There you go, you're catching up Mikey. Right next door, another closet. This one is a little bit smaller. Same finishes, but you that you got on the other walk-in closet. And now, I feel like we're zigzagging. It's a big, massive bedroom suite. And right here is the most important part of the master suite. It's the master bedroom, We have the king size bed right here. Obviously vaulted ceilings, it's all open, geared Just like the first floor, we have the minimalist AC diffusers are nicely blended Of course we have the automatic shades, and just like the office, we have these glass doors opening up this master bedroom You can get a little almost like a Juliet balcony, but you can actually step outside. And of course you have because you don't wanna take anything away from the views of the bedroom. On the right-hand side, we actually have a little bit Another unique detail. They actually run the oak instead of horizontally to kinda change things up a little bit. And, I just realized this detail as you can actually close this section off where you have your wet bar. - Oh that's cool. - [Mikey] I didn't think I would say this, but this little seating area over here, this little nook might be one of my favorite parts of the house. That seems like a great spot - It's such a cozy master bedroom. This whole house, although it actually feels very And I love this little as your wet bar. I mean, you get your, some countertop space, so in the morning, you don't have to leave your master bedroom to I feel like throughout these tours, we mention this all the time, but just imagine laying on that bed, waking up or going to sleep We live in Los Angeles. This is such an energetic, dynamic city. And this setting right here is arguably one of the most unique settings we've ever seen in Hollywood Hills. - Yeah, this is really incredible, not only the architecture, but You have Pacific Design Center down here, Beverly Center. On a clear day, you can see It's really special. - You got it all. And we wouldn't be doing unless we spent a few more hours here and check out the property at dusk. (gentle music) Well, we just saw the home at night. Here I am sitting down in enjoying the breathtaking Each section of this home and we could see that even more at night. With all the lights on the textures and finishes. I love the warmth of the and how they left all the main walls open to really draw your At night, the architecture of this home really comes to life. On the left wing we have all the amenities like the movie theater, Right wing, we have the Center gable, we have this and with floor-to-ceiling glass panels, all these spaces flow to the backyard, creating that seamless Amazing location, rare setting on a knoll, private driveway, the stunning modern flat backyard, breathtaking views, and these qualities coming together makes this home one of a kind. And that's what you're paying for, a rare sculpture that is It takes years of a dedicated to build a project at this There's a big team behind the and I'll leave their So make sure to check 'em out. Before we end this video, I wanna congratulate the for turning this vision into a reality. I wanna thank all the listing agents for allowing us to tour It's been an amazing day, touring this home, sharing Thanks for watching. And we'll see you guys next week. (gentle upbeat music)