(MUSIC) (MUSIC) On September 14th, 2015. Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave and its twin detector, 1,900 miles away appeared to make the first detection of created by a massive collision unlike anything astronomers had ever It would be just as 100 years of Einstein's And the first time we on Earth a remnant of the violent warping of If true LIGO's discovery would open up that's dark to our existing observatories and Until now, we have only seen warped spacetime -- spacetime when it is very calm. As though we had only seen on a very calm day We had never seen the ocean broiled The colliding black holes that created a violent storm in the We began filming a documentary about LIGO And we were there, at the LIGO Livingston We arrive on Sunday, September 13th, of Advanced LIGO, the five year, $200 million detectors, which even before the upgrade for measurement the world had What do they hope to measure? Ray Weiss is the creator He describes the footprint, so to speak, Everybody who has contemplated it, especially if they're engineers and that's when they throw you And they say that's not possible. Now, how do I, let's put it into that you understand better. It's not easy to make a context But let's take the distance between And so we want to measure that extra atom, one extra atom, that goes from the earth to the sun. Or another way of thinking about it is from the earth to the nearest star to a It's ridiculous, right? How will LIGO know and measure the waves? stretched and distorted by the wave The magic to do that is that if you you're measuring some absolute size. Interferometry measures the So we have a pair of mirrors that The gravitational wave has changed between those two objects. We send laser light into the interferometer But if they change their length for any reason, then that leaks a little light through And that's where we can read out the to be sensitive to the differential Gravitational waves are really hard what's the medium, you know, what's or sound waves that propagate through air. And it turns out that space is really stiff. to be able to get that space to jiggle The crew and I knew all of this. And the fact that because the mirrors in two long vacuum tube arms, the curvature of the earth when placing We knew this, but we weren't prepared that Sunday. LIGO Livingston had been in Mexico 2000 miles away. We understood immediately that we of the physical world. But looking back, it was an almost It was topped off a year and a half later of the Hanford detector by an earthquake in Africa on the We didn't feel the earthquake. It was the low frequency aftershocks and knocked the fragile complexity Distant, extremely large-magnitude quakes, they can have us offline for several hours and those waves travel around and around, LIGO hopes to measure a wave of in the most precise measurement If successful. Yet an earthquake from thousands of miles away Let's not even talk about the logging trucks or wind across the high desert of that pushed and tilted the buildings Or even what they called But the loss of lock at Livingston We were able to go down to interview Gabriela Gonzalez, who is the spokesperson elected by the 1000 physicists and engineers Some of them, like Rai Weiss have been working It has been Gaby Gonzalez's We are very excited about starting this run, with Advanced LIGO detectors. three times farther than we did But we are making it short. compared to the years we did before, enough sensitivity to see events, until we get better. So we don't have But we could! We could be lucky. so we could be lucky and see an event. that are very optimistic theories that say that we and who knows, they might be right! So gravitational waves, we like to because the frequency of the signals are in the human audio range. binary systems make before merging a &quot;chirp&quot; I'm not good at doing that, in pitch and amplitude I think that the fact that one precision to look at the structure of that will put science and technology Every child, every person will reading about this You can really measure these things and you're talking about black holes That's amazing!&quot; And that that I really want. It's that amazing vision that makes us understand Just before leaving for Louisiana, of Advanced LIGO, after more than and five years of installation in the two They aren't ready. All of the Twelve hours after we talked with at 4:45 a.m. in Livingston Parish William Parker is in the operator's chair He is alone that night. Nutsinee Kijbunchoo, the operator at Hanford, Unknown to them, at 4:50 a.m. Louisiana time, coming from both detectors. And an algorithm for just this purpose sends out an email alert The voice alert system that would isn't working yet. As I understand it, and I'll I was not involved in this but as I understand it, to three or four people: Marco Drago at the AEI and Sergey Klimenko at the And there may be one or two Basically there was an email alert basically automated saying, Marco looks at it and goes, This is a very loud trigger," This was a representation And actually we have the two So this is the data And here we can see in both It was about, I think 11:30 a.m. I did know that just a few days before, we'd had So we put in signals to test the instrument. was just try to figure out whether There was a little bit into that when because you can talk And Livingston told us it was middle of the night. People had already gone home. doing a blind injection, which means that just to make sure that we can detect it. and it was six months We had to get to the point where Sergey Klimenko, I think, Sergey looked at it and said, &quot;This is it has to be a binary When I saw this email, It was kind of so beautiful You know, LIGO is It looks at this unexplored And therefore it's absolutely necessary And this is what I do. And I have to say that it's not very simple It's like trying to find a black cat This is a big challenge. So we're adjusting all our plans, because we've In many ways, it looks We're trying to keep our excitement It was 5 a.m. So it's all still very new. And we see this beautiful wave form It's so nice looking, We, of course, worry that we're being But it really, really looks nice. So we're checking off those boxes. So that leaves the quote everybody &quot;Once you've eliminated the impossible, has got to be the truth.&quot; So then the question is, can someone, either in the hardware at the detectors, and put in a signal There are only, I don't know, you could count, the people who could do that. And these are all people So you just, we just trust. of people that have that We have been working You know, I mean, there's this you know, is there some evil genius This sort of Pandora's Box of questioning. trying to manipulate the gravitational This evil genius gets to be more and more as you delve into this in a So it's not just one evil genius. One of the hypotheses was that someone or some kind of music device and put one and then had some software which timed In fact, two young LIGO scientists at Hanford last week, and they They were here all weekend? Before every science run we do a set Takes about a week to run all over the detector magnetically, acoustically, vibrationally, Is it possible that they left because they were there last week, right? We have shakers and speakers and big And we inject all of these to see what they might produce on We're thinking about, okay, we see Is it a gravitational wave, or is it just It would be astonishing. Astonishing, Maybe they left some timed... So on the night of September 14, Actually, probably September 13 counting the night as ours as well. So at 4:00 in the morning we said, So we looked at our list and was drive some cars around very close to the buildings, brake really hard every few seconds, around the site. And we used to sync our so-called So we say, &quot;Okay, we're going to brake We're going to break six times of six kind of fingers of But the GPS watch had desynchronized Robert at his flight probably at like And we said, &quot;Fine, You know, it's just not Luckily, I think, because the They were here all weekend? Where were you? When did you leave? I know for sure I was in the car and the event was at 4:50. that I wasn't secretly climbing This is the only experiment... Matt Evans led a team that eventually that the detectors could not by what they called a &quot;rogue injection." Hello, everybody. We've all been asking which appears so perfect, and so loud, and it all seems a bit improbable.&quot; for people to ask, In the process of investigating I went through and talked to people And what I found was that there was somebody who had actually taken Turns out the data spreads from and so it's hard to add anything consistently And the security actually on the which I didn't expect for a science project. that it would have conspiracy of evil geniuses I think it really verges on crazy I didn't feel that way when I thought there were ways The idea this might have been rogue injection, some hack But Anamaria and Robert's will become one of the legends of LIGO, Weiss and Evans' elusive evil geniuses, only 15 minutes before the signal arrived, What we had been planning on doing when we made the detection, which was It would have meant that people because we essentially say, Don't believe anything you see.&quot; Had they had a burst of energy late at night, through the time when the signal came. because we wouldn't have been able up to no good at the time So the idea of the event is outside of the collaboration. if you want to call it that, So we're inevitably going to get rumors They might be unexpected. I thought, "Oh, wait, I found something. This is looking more and more real. It was either a double secret committee We asked for a fire drill! I think everybody has heard that chirp noise and This is a -- Time, Frequency. It's a chirp. A lot of people don't believe this The degree of reality has gone up and up. if we find out that this is something So, I'm just now looking at the chat windows We've looked at a lot of the obvious places And so right now we're in this unplanned mode And rather than have to apologize it'll be good to know now whether people This is the time to do the math, I think. But it's new territory. We have hundreds of people People are going to look for any kind There's going to be a lot of devil's advocacy especially for something this big. What if it's a mistake?&quot; When you're detecting something, that's never been seen before, you have If this was the 10th event we were seeing, We know they're out there. uncertainty, you know, But for the first one, you've just got due to some other artifact, that this You worry that in any complicated that you may have made a discovery, but And, I mean, there's many situations You know your apparatus How could, you know, what could mess it up? sealing off all the avenues of doubt, by being your own worst enemy. Gravitational wave detection is, There's a possibility, for example, in such a way that that particular signal on both interferometers. is now to understand how often that happens. a false event to show up So the real challenge now, to try and vet this candidate -- to look at it. that are analyzing the data They want to do everything they can And if all of their efforts fail, that we would announce the world (MUSIC) Good morning, everyone. when everything's kind So I appreciate you taking an to listen to something that But it's really, really an exciting time. should be pretty happy about all the hard So this is something that I took and this is certainly getting What you're looking at is the first possible And this was the signal that came into the There's still a long way to go before we One of the questions that has come up, called a "blind injection challenge&quot;, surreptitiously inject signals into the detector. I have been asked a number of a double super secret blind injection?&quot; This is not a blind injection. No one on my authority, on Gaby's authority, management of the LIGO Laboratory did this. I think we're still coming to terms with the For many of us, it's something that we've been and it almost had taken on a mythical "Oh, it probably will, but it won't be It'll be next year or five years later.&quot; And to see is something that still gives me a shiver of and still gives me a shiver of fright that I don't think it's hit me yet. If the true and profound implications were slow to sink in among the many understandable because they risked their careers and impossibly faint detection. at the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational for whom there would be nothing theoretical September 14th was Serguei Ossokine's in numerical relativity: The field whose are our only way to understand the of a binary black hole Serguei started his postdoc on September 14. some numerical relativity simulation to whether what we had seen really agreed I came in and of course met everyone, got acquainted and talked and then she told me I tried to explain to him also before even telling him the story. And at the end I told him we might have I was almost immediately asked, &quot;Would you if we think that this is correct?&quot; I was He took the work beautifully, and he started So I was, of course, one of part of a big collaboration, which that hundreds of people have contributed to. some time to run on a supercomputer. it can be anywhere between weeks and Of course, numerically, I mean, the only output is just numbers. really understand what happens around And to understand it better, intuitively So the movies in principle are based on So this is really the simulation. This is what it hopefully will look like The problem with these computations millions of numbers and there's to absorb these millions of what's going on without And that's why the movies are made. to &quot;ooo and ah&quot; over. They're made in order to comprehend what's going on. If we hadn't had computer simulations for this domain, we wouldn't have had any because you could not compute those using any technique except brute force Kip really helped spur the field and getting people to take Einstein's and simulate what would happen when two neutron stars, black hole-neutron star, Without those simulations, we wouldn't But they have so much information in them. And they have information because of The way that Einstein's equations are that you can actually solve The problem with Einstein's is it's more like There were tremendous obstacles, Einstein's equations well enough on a computer without having So in terms of understanding the mathematics, You're trying to compute not how something but how spacetime itself behaves when We're building a catalog of simulations of what is the shape of the wave, That catalog then will enable us to look &quot;Yes, that was a black hole where this the mass of the sun, that one has a mass The issue of reverse engineering, and figuring out what's going on in them, And we don't know Because we don't know in advance what the we have to generate a bank of that have many, many combinations that is close enough to any possible that the search pipelines can To do that means that we have to and in the software. We can't do because it would be too expensive. So instead, we use pencil &amp; paper very accurate waveforms. But it's not It's not the full general relativity solution. So the model search that used on the order of 200,000 templates. The last two weeks have been really from the time when these online searches we've been through a whole series of And many of them, underlying them, &quot;Could we have caused this accidents to, you know, to malpractice?&quot; come back saying, "No, this really came from And so then you start almost believing it! The real difficulty with making the I think there's probably been something like that we're talking about, where claims to have and all of them have gone And for that reason, for these 50 years, or terrestrial gravitational wave detection Everybody thinks that the people in it are And year after year, they And in the meantime they've got people and haven't seen them. And so the whole field knows -- knew -- they really had to do it right. Well, there was there was a moment with the happiness of it all. It was the so-called &quot;box opening&quot; ceremony. We're going to listen to the Compact who've collected their data together in And they've done two things. when there's no gravitational wave signal. for the two detectors. where you look at the synchronized that's where a signal shows up. are really impatient to see what's in the box. And The first thing we're going to do though, is look at the closed box. We'll talk the statistics of the detector to draw any conclusions The opening of the box is a walking over to their computer, this data file and looking So if there's nothing sort of further to say We actually broke the teleconferencing because it was set up to take 50 And Alex Nitz will walk through And then we have a discussion of what we do The thing which I think is really is that there may be other There's always gravitational waves in our data. but the further you go away in space, These sources are constantly and these are constantly in our data. the noise of the detector, the terrestrial has been loud enough that it For people who are aren't CBC this is the primary offline deep binary black hole, binary In the last few years I expect many more of these events. hopefully also neutron star-black hole, From each of these sources, we can learn about nuclear matter in extreme conditions, So when this happens, I think the most between finding gravitational waves, what people are rightly focusing on So from finding of gravitational waves, to doing which is the exciting part. To prepare for the box opening, we wanted of the entire code. So the review The things that are the most kind of rewarding And that's, you know, kind of the opposite I started out with things like trying And trying to build electronics that have But some of the really most difficult like vacuum -- getting a good enough getting a good enough vacuum so the It's been a huge amount of time on that. because it's got all kinds of things: it's got all this kind of stuff that And it falls into one of these domains We are signing off on being okay So during the telecon, people were just or the work they had done to come up with the And then when everybody's confident, They don't see any real errors or issues &quot;Pipeline A, yeah looks good.&quot; Same kind of thing: Then everybody says, with the way you've we're ready to actually see what your And that's the opening of the box part. For the box opening we've reached a strong with no major objections Then yeah, we said, Let's take one final round of on any of the things We asked for objections: why we shouldn't be And everyone said, &quot;No.&quot; I guess now, unless there are any objections So Alex NItz, if you could take us We flip the switch. So there was like a precise moment. when everyone saw how how strong And we could scroll down to one particular graph, Yeah. And there it is. ...versus the strength of all possible noise events, how unlikely it was that We'd all had enough practice at box openings. &quot;There's not even one chance in a million And that's the standard that physicists &quot;Okay, if it's better than one chance in And it was right there. It was like a dream. So when the box opened today, So the first box was opened and there But my eyes went immediately because we expect somehow that nature But there'd be this whole popcorn of And there wasn't much evidence of that. and I was a little disappointed This is a little bit spooky. one step at a time. Take what nature Well, look, to be honest with you Why do I have a disappointment? is very proud that it was there. is the fact that, my God, if you have this very there should be a population They're not just, why only one of them? I think this is one of the biggest mysteries in the weeks to months to maybe years. see more events and can start understanding You know, right now we've seen one event. It's loud. It's a system that we haven't seen except if we had more of them. No, but I think that discovery isn't the I have to tell you that. That's absolutely spectacular. And not just solar massey ones, No! And this exists. And if you see a couple more It's something new we're going to be To me, that's the big discovery. Yeah, but then it's going to be hard to say, I think the remarkable thing is not so much I mean, that's remarkable enough, of this whole discovery. That centerpiece that nature seems to have given us, over the years. It's the best source It's the source that says Einstein is right In other words, this is a source than general relativity. The idea of LIGO came to me I was trying to explain to the I barely knew anything. I mean they knew There was a revolution going on in the and I wanted to be part of it. And they thought I knew something about The trouble was, I couldn't admit to the guy that I didn't know anything about it. program of doing things in that I didn't know what the was probably more than I So I was one day in many cases just about So it was an interesting term, let me Rai did an analysis of all the noise sources would have to deal with. Basically But it is probably the most powerful in terms of a vision for the future. thinking about this for a few years. What then happened was I was at that time deeply connected for the cosmic background radiation So they asked me to run a committee in 1975 could do for gravitation and what at that Kip Thorne, who I'd never met before, interested in, in experimental gravitation. I picked him up in the middle of the I don't know if you ever go to Washington, place to stay in the So he and I spent an evening and a And we talked all night. And what was Kip up to at that time? the premiere group in the world If you look at the names of the they now illuminate the whole field. He had not heard of interferometric It was new to him. I was very skeptical because how this was going to be done that we needed. You're trying to make a at a level of accuracy that is Ten to the minus 21 was a number which means a change in length It's a frightening number. People looked at that and they thought And I looked at that when I first heard about it, that I wrote a little sentence in a textbook, called Gravitation with Charlie which said, it seems unlikely And then I spent much trying to help the experimenters because I looked in depth at Rai's but it's going to The estimate was that we had would be where pay dirt is. The the announcement made The strength of those waves was It was right on the money. We even where we agreed on what is our goal: This is 1978. Seventy eight. That's basically Now that's the only way I The book that Thorne, Misner and has been the Bible of gravity It first came out in 1973. the search for gravitational waves, But it was a different, more primitive technology It was called a resonant bar detector, and its would become both one of the most and early seventies and then a pariah You'll get different opinions on this, we wouldn't be here. There would nobody would have done gravitational waves with terrestrial So this is an artifact. It's one of the bars Joe was the first person to take seriously, make a detection of gravity waves. very large aluminum bar, which is suspended. The theory was that if a gravity wave comes that energy would be released Joe was a controversial character, to his claims that he had actually But to me, Joe is a hero because even though he was the person who had the chutzpah If it wasn't for that pioneering work, And he did think of many of the ideas that The laser Interferometers really and there were developments The first real prototype of a gravitational wave suspended mirrors, and all the major parts, My predecessor in my Max Planck was one of the first one, two, experimentally detect gravitational Heinz Billing was already famous in Europe storage system for computers. And then in 1952, Billing got involved in gravitational wave Joe Weber's claims in the U.S. That's what he did. He said, &quot;I will copy the At the same time, at the University Jim Hough and Ron Drever also And with all of this effort, no So the outcome was, of course, clear: to make these detectors more sensitive. Rai Weiss is proposing at M.I.T." Rudiger was the last senior member of the in developing the techniques. They made the first, So what happened? They, the German group, took And with my blessing by the way. calls me up and says, &quot;Have you who are working on this And I couldn't believe it. But then graduate students working out, &quot;Well, is there anybody?&quot; And it turns an exquisite experimenter, David went to Europe and I had been working here in the lab on a small gravitational wave It was clear that he really grasped all the technical details very quickly. due to his ingenuity Honestly, they were a little bit They've been working so long on these projects And I was the ingredient that they needed. And I was full of energy. And I was So I often found myself The Germans were not working on weekends. with a bunch of findings that And he was the guy who And there's an absolutely wonderful paper He's the lead author of that paper. The collection of noise sources that Rai trying to measure each one of those in this something that really brought and gave people a lot more confidence Very important: The German that they could make a thing work It was really spectacular I felt confident that you could I saw nothing that would stand In the summer of 1988, convinced me to move to Caltech Kip was an extraordinary popularizer. and beat them over the head that this was such an important problem. with this incredible preacher And you had to go away convinced that this We took a lot of great work that had and used that understanding to build this big, gigantic, And we faced all the problems of, you know, which is what they did. a project that was ten times bigger than anything The thing that surprised me the how the National Science Foundation to take such a big risk The 1989 proposal was written by Robbie Vogt, and came on as the LIGO project director. and Ron Drever, who had been a leader of the and had come to Caltech to join Kip And then what happened was that between Ron Drever and Robbie Vogt, So what happened is that caused It was in every newspaper that this terrible It got busted up. The director of the NSF informed the Congress the funding for the project, And they told Caltech that the leadership So Barry was asked to be Barry was a absolute breath of fresh air, He'd been through the SSC. He knew how to deal with people. And little by little, the thing took on I think it's quite clear that if Barry hadn't come it would have crashed and burned. We were approved in 1994 to build LIGO. which is maybe only a year longer than I thought. which is five years longer than I thought, and there was no precedent. At that time we knew that the technology Advanced LIGO uses glass which is so But it's so purely made not that you would do this, it would ring 100 million times And that's because it's so pure. In order to detect gravitational waves, that the risks of not succeeding right away to try to sell the whole thing at the beginning. which is the only funding agency would have taken it on. to build a first phase of LIGO for the eventual LIGO. And had and sensitivity to take it seriously. of gravitational waves was possible. And it's really what was behind us It is not just the risk in selling it, but the risk in Initial LIGO ran until 2010. Then LIGO would virtually tear out and build Advanced LIGO from the Let's start from a baseline which wasn't sensitive enough. What did we have to do to get There's a lot of little things, One was that in order to get more sensitivity, at least ten times or 20 times more powerful This high power laser is unusual, You're hitting a target that's about And you don't want just to hit it somewhere. There are no lasers on the shelf that do that. It still may not be solved, So that's the first. The second is that we're limited by the shaking of the earth, Our mirrors are sitting on the earth and are shaken by seismic noise, whether on ocean shores, or from people walking by, or airplanes going overhead. And all The very first stage of that is this HEPI system, Each one of these four piers effectively inside the vacuum envelope. If the ground moves one way, they move And now under our Advanced LIGO system, so that if the ground is moving one direction, direction and keep everything The third is to try to make the mirrors themselves Jim Hough and our Scottish collaborators The mirror themselves in LIGO isolated from all sources of noise. My work on that was in the area to make these super low-noise, all-fused to hold the mirrors almost motionless, just waiting for There's a little thread coming down here. Right, right on the tip of my hands. It's a little bit less thick than a human hair. So these are the suspensions But that itself has to hang from because one stage isn't enough to isolate So the Advances LIGO suspension is, So that's four stages from seismic noise, Norma did a lot of work and took responsibility the head of looking after that process. of the design of the global picture, four-stage pendulum, that we in the UK, Glasgow, helped deliver For me, I have to say that this is a very exciting which I was hoping to see when I started off We're where I thought would be (MUSIC) We've talked about the displacement That might make you think But when the signal reaches us, it does And part of that is because But nonetheless, it carries a lot of energy, The actual source of these two in the final last milliseconds the black holes are racing distorting up spacetime, merging And in the process converts about three times in about two tenths of a second So that makes it, we think, the most energetic Take every star in the universe, In every galaxy, so I'm talking The event that we saw on September 14th Basically, the universe got 50 times during that brief instant If you imagine that every star in the universe that was similar to the earth. a billion galaxies in the universe. in each one of those galaxies. So if and if each of those earths, if the populations the earth's population used in 2014, that gave us this little burst put out enough energy to supply all of We've done something different than This is certainly the first time that we've seen due to a passing gravitational wave, It's the first time we've had an instrument And it's the first time we've been the force needed to make the Earthlings have experienced and the warping of space of starlight going past the sun, for example, What we've never had until whatsoever, observationally, warping of space and time associated There you see the black holes It's a beautiful display as they go around each other. They're going And they're getting close. The collision but you don't see the violence The collision has occurred. Gravitational waves were emitted and To really see what was going on, go up into the fifth dimension, in the orbital plane Here are the black holes, these funnels. The color And this is the gravitational wave form is where it is on the shape of the And we're going to watch the warping end of time become very extreme I'll pause it completely at the moment of merger. Tremendously warped space and time. About half the stars you see in the pairs of stars revolving around there may be binary black holes in the universe. But this is what was detected It's a significant event, let's put it this way. That's the elegant part of it. in a group of 900 people like we call that there would be somebody And I haven't heard that yet from anybody. about this. This is the best thing rather than seeing a neutron star. But here is the thing we really a pair of black holes These theories are pretty extreme. There are all these kind of spooky which from a physics perspective So a black hole is an object that's not It's made from warped space And yet it is an interesting richness of structure When two black holes collide, they create with wildly oscillating rate of flow of time, We're essentially seeing them up close. two of these and we crashed them into That's a really good way to figure and whether they really are And they are! They are exactly Unbelievable. You can't ask for more. It was this massive cataclysmic event, These two massive, dense, giant objects in Each one weighed more They were hundreds of kilometers apart, hundreds of times a second, not even time to blink, they collided. They were It was the most cataclysmic event In mid-October, a second far weaker signal When we got that second weak signal, &quot;Oh my goodness, there is actually a And this is happening for real. We're opening a brand new field of astronomy. that electromagnetic astronomy could And the only way to discover this population And I'm part of this And I just couldn't believe this was actually It is definitely another candidate, of one chance in a million The second signal was never And the reason is that October event had a And that sounds like a high probability. about 15% probability And from a scientific point of view, 15% We discovered for the first time We opened a brand new field of astronomy, one source that nobody has ever seen before. and no other team can ever see again, it lasted point two seconds Nobody can come a year later, "Oh, yeah, I see that signal, too,&quot; So we were in a position amazing claim, changing the way we know it, and So what do you do? You go by what based on your statistics. You can't let go with, &quot;Oh l'd love to so I'm going to use the low just because I'd rather have You have to be honest, based on what The October event is not claimed as a detection, of announcing to the world its first detection A prospect many in the collaboration But then a week after our interview with in the U.S. or Boxing Day in Europe, light up within just over a And LIGO makes a second (SOUND OF THE TWO "CHIRPS") You know, it wasn't 100% sure. that we should have another. we all said, &quot;Ah, this is for real!&quot; but relieved, too. It's difficult to describe but also so reassuring. at a similar distance, Very, very far in the past So, the second detection really tells us It wasn't lucky. We can see these things with LIGO. We're no longer a physics experiment We're doing astronomy. That's Kip Thorne wrote in his book on a film he was instrumental in creating: and the rate of flow of time for me, this is a fascinating LIGO is now on that frontier. So where is this heading? a picture which is pretty complete. depended on Kip. Kip was sort of the visionary If we look into the future of gravitational wave studying things like colliding black holes We also have a future of observing what was The ultimate holy grail of gravitational wave Gravitational waves are the only that it would travel unscathed material in the earliest fraction of a So if we are ever going to actually the only way we will actually see it To see this signal from the early universe will be because we will bring back a snapshot At a time much earlier than when the was emitted that today We can see back to when the universe Before that the matter in and so dense that photons, So with light, we can only to an age of 380,000 years. Gravitational waves are produced basically in a And so we will have a snapshot of This is absolutely phenomenal. Understanding the beginning. Perhaps the most exciting is the unknown. In the era when we were trying to convince for me, this was the most exciting thing: from a phenomena that we never dreamed of. has been opened on the universe, And this will surely This is such a bizarre window It's like Galileo you can say opened up the We have eyes! Perhaps safe to say that no gravitational waves before, or experienced it So this is completely something The wonderful thing about LIGO is things that we don't know about. but my hope is that we're going to find out We're going to be able to break And I'll be honest with you, But, Albert, at some point your And I'm hoping we're I don't think it's likely But things that I thought have come to pass during my career, such as the accelerated expansion of the universe. So I've been wrong before. I think the odds are not high. But boy The dream of every scientist is to to be able to see for the first time things And so moments like that are the The first look And for us, the first touching I thought I was in a dream. I cannot yet believe it. For five And during the last few days, I was because it was so nice and explore it and look at it But I think it's the right time now so that other people Good morning. Without a doubt the reason we believe in the potential of the Laser Opening a new observational window and some of the most violent phenomen Ladies and gentlemen, we have detected I am so pleased to be able It's really, really exciting. I couldn't be more excited. so I was stuck down in New Orleans. I could get here.&quot; And one of the fellows &quot;Oh, but you'll fall asleep.' Oh, I have waited 22 years for this. The frequencies of these waveforms We can hear gravitational waves, Now, I wanted to play the gravitational (SOUND OF THE GRAVITATIONAL WAVE) Did you hear the chirp? There's the rumbling noise. That's the chirp We're seeing something that has And today, a lot of people's What we do is we suspend Here is a sort of demonstration pendulum. And my hand will be the ground motion. or at low frequencies, It follows the ground motion completely. and you'll notice the pendulum That's the basis of the idea. Now that's and, you know, with This is what's actually in the apparatus. And by the way, the principle I just showed you It makes you comfortable in a Cadillac Colliding black holes are not the only source We will see gravitational waves stars the size of Washington, D.C. weighing more than the sun, that, as the stars spin, those mountains long lasting gravitational waves. black holes tearing neutron stars apart. We are searching for gravitational waves from And amazingly we're searching for gravitational from cosmic strings: Giant strings Einstein would be beaming, wouldn't he? It's a very special moment for me personally when I was a graduate student at Caltech the spouse of Joseph Weber, inspire us which seemed imaginary at the time. And look, So this thing stood out like a sore thumb, and Personally, I wanted to represent the engineers and bright, and I wanted to You know, this represents 16 days of And you get one source that's a real home run. that's supposed to run for You know, we're not going to Nine months later, LIGO began But by July 2017, 22 months the euphoria of February's historic announcement had faded a bit. And it had also given way There had been another detection of an event nearly 3 billion light years away. And the detectors were plagued Unanticipated flaws in the high-power laser, And then there were the whims of nature We almost blew it. We were going to and a decision was made to, a decision was made to run through August. a number of things, one of which was and have Virgo be able to say, &quot;Okay.&quot; I think that was very, very Virgo is the three kilometer Italian-French Its second generation, Advanced Virgo, It was now scheduled to launch in early LIGO's second run, before its With multiple detectors about the globe, another second, another third. you to triangulate where that object And the promise of doing that, means that we can follow up with other Light telescopes, radio waves, But LIGO's difficulties weren't over. On July 6th, a 5.8 magnitude hit the Hanford detector. it suffered damage that could not easily Hanford is broken at some level. where it should be performing. And so we're going to have Virgo went ahead and came online And then, amazingly, in further proof that on August 14, Hanford, Livingston &amp; Virgo made And that was only the prelude. LIGO's second run was coming to What we know is there was this loud ping at the same time as there was And this bright thing came up And that's what we A month earlier, Virgo wouldn't We would have had a large area of the sky A short two months later, France world stage again at the National Today we're thrilled to announce that scientists the collision of two neutron stars, This event occurred 130 million light years We have, for the first time, seen from the collision of two dense However, to do it this time, of astronomers and many, We saw a signal at 8:41 a.m. (SOUND OF THE SIGNAL) The signal was much different from the It was much longer. and what we found was that approximately 1.6 solar masses approximately 1.1 solar masses. is just the brief second where they collided. been predicted for decades, and we What makes this event so amazing is across the entire electromagnetic spectrum, involving 70 observatories, including and every continent on the planet. that I'm showing, you'll even see there's a We were able to identify it quickly and then You know, here we are, they happen And we don't really understand how, What's really powering them. We see them to the edge of the Where is it coming from? The gravitational waves let us, in effect, And that's what we're doing. So we've now And we can tell you it's definitely and that's what caused it. two seconds later there was So, I mean, that's remarkable We've never had a picture where we're looking to Now, let me tell you what we saw which are stars that are about the weight of the sun, That means you're dealing with And a teaspoon of it, If you would weigh millions of tons, Astronomers have thought for a long time produce heavy elements. As these neutron stars come together, maybe not all, but certainly most of the collisions of two neutron stars, like for They just didn't easily make in stars. but now they saw that They got that from the This is my great grandfather's gold watch. The gold in this watch was very likely produced approximately billions of years ago. The universe has been expanding since the faster is expands. that sets the scale for this expansion. to pin down this number What LIGO and Virgo have done, is to introduce a new method This is a method that was first proposed who is here in the audience And the idea is to use the signal, from the two neutron stars, And so now we have a new yardstick the expansion of the universe. Yeah, that was something I did in 1986. to be able to apply it. At the time to measure the rate of expansion of the universe. for measuring the Hubble Constant. Here's how to measure distances the expansion of the universe. So Each of those individual Putting them all together I think there's no doubt at this point astronomical event ever in the history of certainly in the history of our This binary neutron star event is going This wonderful event. it's sort of like in two years (MUSIC) (MUSIC) (APPLAUSE) My call came just before Barry's. It was surprising how long they talked to and so the phone rang, I knew it was I knew it had to be coming from Stockholm. I had thought, you know, I had hoped it would go to the team. But we had been expecting it. but in fact I was overwhelmed. So my call came after Kip's, but we were warned this may happen, so we And so I had set the alarm for 2:40 a.m. supposed to be live streamed. There had been no phone calls, (LAUGHTER) so I assumed they had Instead, I went to my &quot;Well, who did they And then my cell phone and whoever here can tell me that I give to nobody, But they called on my cell phone My feelings at the time, I think a complicated mixture between I told Samoan, "I'm going to go take And when I came out of the shower, was in our dining room. He had my cell phone, and our house phone, and And he was fielding all this stuff. About six in the morning, I think, a whole bunch of pictures And actually the pictures went in various newspapers Reuters pictures on our front porch. (MUSIC) Professor Weiss, Professor Barish, you have been awarded the 2017 for your decisive contributions to the Gravitational-wave Observatory and for On behalf of the Royal Swedish it's my honor and my great pleasure to Ultimately this is about, the ingenuity, the creativity of the best So that is the beautiful story that you have Let me just focus on Rai for a moment, Or partly because I want most humble human being But Rai one day needs to understand, yesterday, that without him You started with this. And yes, to smart someone perhaps like that guy, to convince him And you assembled an amazing team, to accomplish an amazing, So Rai one of these days, accept, that you (APPLAUSE) I now ask you to step forward from the hands of (MUSIC) (APPLAUSE) In 2007, Barry was given an honorary PhD He came and he gave this wonderful talk, And at the end of it, I have to remind you was deeply involved in the Iraq War, and One of my senior colleagues, a very a gentleman by the name of John Klauder, &quot;Dave, that guy, Barry Barish, if he were (APPLAUSE) The fact that it took that long, of scientists to get us where we are, The field has had supporters who kept But of course not everybody was a supporter. And in Scotland we have a drinking which I thought I would give to you. and those that don't love us, And if he doesn't turn their hearts, so we will know them (APPLAUSE) Kip, in his talk yesterday, was about where we're going So on behalf of the generations who are going to be able thank you to the laureates for in getting us to the point that (APPLAUSE) In terms of Nobel Week, it's hard If you ask me Sitting next to the Queen, which I did, or all this, that's all great fun. It's hard than the actual ceremony, where you're the certificate, by the king. But I actually got to me much more, The ceremony, afterwards what people and they take away your medal Not for good, but because Each of us have an appointment where And one of the things, you sit down, and this and that. And then a book opened And you just signed it. except that if you look back at the page before that 2015, So I could look back to see Feynman's or anybody that I knew. To actually as these guys had a huge impact It was paging back, which We have a question from our We have about 90,000 watching via that's been echoed throughout the Web: us here on Earth. And will this of things like time travel Oh, Kip, this is tailor-made for you. I think it brings us a much by the combination of the a much deeper understanding of when it is extremely warped. any closer to being able to do time travel. LIGO's direction is really understanding the When we look back on the era of the &quot;What did the humans of that era give I think we would all agree it's great art, Similarly, in a few hundred years, on this era and they ask themselves, culturally from this era?&quot; of the fundamental laws and an understanding of what an exploration of the universe. LIGO is a big part of that.