"Immortal, wisest, and fairest of all beings --" elves used to be my favorite fantasy archetype. wielding magic, making jewelry, doing they're... perfect. So why is there a growing online these fictional entities? And why do I kind of mirrors to the cultures that produced them -- but insecurity, highlighting the flaws of anything elves are uniquely applicable to the obsessions of entangling with shifting notions of power they seem so smug about it. Also, I'm on Nebula now! I've got an exclusive the end of this one, okay, on with the show: What Kind of Elves Are We Even Talking About? categories come to mind: classic elves who will, and modern elves who are sparkly sticks-in-the-mud nearest human 'round ears,' or something. So, little goofballs, and some, like, the mean girls actually not, we'll get to it. Before we can dive which fantasy elves reflect a larger storytelling James P. Sandoval expertly put it "The Specials" before in fiction, even if you haven't heard characters who possess spectacular innate well, everyone stuck in the background. "There's essential to understanding why elves have started elves. A mystically-gifted chosen one elevated storytelling itself: likely originating from how divine claims of human rulers. So: great if you're you're... everyone else. However, I don't think this also just be inherently entertaining to follow ordinary reality. From a storytelling perspective, author doesn't have to spend time justifying their to understand how Legolas can perform incredible pretty much do whatever, without straining getting a little strained. It's getting a little doing? Okay, stuff like this aside, having figures inherently bad; it all comes down to intent and current frustration with elves starts to manifest. unironically prettier and stronger and have tall order to make them not insufferable. Despite are portrayed, I think Tolkien was pretty careful Though vital to the overarching lore, elves are "Lord of the Rings." In fact, they're mainly there a group that are about as 'un-Special' as it no accident: a huge part of why these stories overlooked people finding their courage, just as gifted. I mean, it's not called 'The Elf,' now even 'chosen ones' in the traditional sense: Frodo "I will take it" -- because the more standard their egos. But he isn't 'chosen' in the from stone. Frodo never becomes a king, or a great and his fellow hobbits are no less worthy for it. have neglected to include ordinary, hobbit-esque extra-special elf characters can work if executed uhhh... not super accepting of the ordinaries: the more time is spent with them. Middle Earth but usually in the context of some larger perspective. Elven prejudice in fantasy seems to you've got like, Legolas, who's on a journey of you've got like, the Thalmor from Skyrim, a group need a spreadsheet to understand all the ways they intolerant is always a misstep: in the Thalmor's into the story to be examined and critiqued -- but in there because Tolkien did it: which has not did this whole elves-are-huge-meanies trend get folkloric origins. See, fantasy elves mainly pull the creatures as semi-divine beings largely contrast, the friendlier, more toymaking-inclined Middle Ages -- hence, the current divide was born. elves fall on opposite sides of the "Specials" affects people's reception of them. You rarely say, Santa's elves -- I mean some of them, some North Pole elves, you know what, they're on the fighting to follow his dreams, it's relatable. are better than others is also biased -- I'm doing comes later. Toymaker elves are seldom the main their true narrative opposites have long been more closely with the 'specials' vs. 'ordinaries' no wonder it's boiled over into people picking because the internet, "Never trust an elf!" But in many great enemy duos in fiction. Even, like, whole 'fancy-pants vs rabble=rousers' scale. The and a dwarf is probably Legolas vs Gimli -- and I when I was younger I definitely though Legolas appealing to me than... constant struggle. But running across the country, wearing armor that literally not built for him "would you like me to with someone to which everything comes easily. they becomes friends or whatever, and "What about side by side with a friend." I'll reflect a little on how hating elves probably an idea we've been circling for a while here is houses and fancy bread... kind of resemble fantasy the historical connection between "Specials" if you're going to have a world of magical 'haves' is going to be made. And there are certainly elves but is this association fair to fantasy elves as but it's a bit more complicated than modern fantasy elves are often connected to nature civilization just as frequently as they're ruling when discussing D&amp;D, elves are kind of hippies, in fiction don't just fit into two categories -- Earth? -- there's a lot going on. Elves making non-elves making assumptions about elves in return say. A recent narrative that explores the nuances Meshi, a series about, well, cooking mainly -- groups oversimplifying each other. Dungeon Meshi most elves in the setting do initially fit the even exploring how a longer lifespan can into how elves must struggle against all the basically "the perceived self vs. the true self, can only be overcome through sincere attempts at of understanding elves, I'm now going to attempt textual analysis of The Silmarillion. A broad is a little, it's a little complicated, but also the Lord of the Rings behave the way they do. Over countless tragic decisions, which reframes their and more something learned over endless lifetimes but also makes them seem like huge hypocrites. that? Maybe do some self-reflection? "Men are Go float around in your void. At the risk reading the Silmarillion can help you understand in 'The Hobbit' novel, King Thranduil and his much the same way the trolls or the spiders are. towards the dwarves has to do with this ancient an elven high king over a necklace, which, you But even still, Thranduil basically imprisons the for being lost in an enchanted forest) -- and like, a thousand years ago -- I mean, Gimli does, because Dwarf says to that? Ishkhaqwi ai durugnul." I hate elves again? No -- I don't, *groan,* there beyond in-universe context, there's also a grump about humans (which is more an invention but it also makes his later reversal all the serves as an important plot device for the pacing elves are literary devices, and their shortcomings a nuance that I think is sometimes lost in elves don't have to serve the same narrative and 'The Witcher,' for example, tend to be part focused on their struggles to hold onto their larger human empires. Many elves in these stories traits have a different narrative weight due to perspective, I think the fantasy-elf archetype into a context that challenges their expected portrayals of the elven-archetype come not from are elves in space. The Vulcans of Star Trek are not space elves, you know? And it's not just they live much longer than humans, a lot of a Vulcan. Like, they're definitely seen as elven, even uses this to his advantage. "Is it a It is no myth." He's literally lying in this elf-archetype to sci-fi is a great idea, because "You lied. Oh... I implied." Fantasy tropes in Star Trek aliens are basically fantasy archetypes and Klingons are cool space orcs. But putting new storytelling opportunities -- elven arrogance a galactic empire. And maybe some of the examples elves -- but I would argue the elf-archetype Stepping out of sci-fi for a moment, if you were probably guess on visuals alone that the setting's particularly long-lived, nor magically inclined, Link is, because he's built different, but he's the ground. If you dropped him in your average disown any relation. The actual elf-equivalent in long lifespans, the fancy architecture, the iffy yes, they are weird fish people, but the role they a thematic level, elves are more than their countless of aliens in sci-fi exist somewhere different. Elf-analogues are absolutely everywhere drawn to these immortal, superhumanly-gifted that they're invading other genres, how can we I think that elves -- as these glittery, unconscious not entirely dissimilar to the way we celebrities, you know? Hate their overly-perfect if you look at the size of the entertainment out nonetheless. And I think elves have this if they had phones they'd be posting about how this wave of jealousy, in between seeing hobbit dwarven guides to types of metamorphic rock. In most 'Specials' in fiction -- possess qualities influence, perfect hair, really fancy bread like without some form of envy creeping in. Perhaps the possess is their longevity -- mainly in terms industry is worth 300 billion dollars) but also correlated with the time you get to spend and that's not even getting into the rising, broaden the gap significantly. There are people to live as eternal, shining demigods. "It's the contains radioactive elements" Never mind the fact of tragedy for elves in fiction, as everyone of the Rings films touch on this with Arwen, and human Aragorn will end in tragedy, as her dad so making your daughter cry man, chill out. But, hey, in a bad mood because I watched elf-bowling the I enjoyed that? No. I didn't. Anyway, speaking of series is basically all about the quiet tragedy meaning, that a life without end is hardly a on anti-aging, not just for billionaires, but up clips for this video, I started getting and like -- my life's goal is to become a hobbit, fear and anxiety over getting older has never And I'm not blaming depictions of elves for that, as long-seeded as it is terrible. But I do think drawn to our slow-aging celebrity 'specials' and backlash towards elves, which in the end are, elves are not beyond reproach. If I were to it's interesting that they love to talk about how to the darkness seems to be, like, their favorite tacky. But elves are ultimately not responsible nor our envy -- we are in control of the ways we the pull of immortality, and focus on the now. grow our squashes, and become really hairy. We Earth's true heroes... And the show's not over where I take you through my ultimate elf tier I share more of my genuine, unfiltered thoughts generous towards elves than I am in this video elf-on-the-shelf... F-Tier." Right now, using my 40% off -- just $3/month, or $36 for a year. But support Curious Archive, and a place where you can top-tier streaming service, home to a treasury of like Jacob Geller, Hello Future Me, Tale Foundry, exclusive series, movies, classes and more. with exclusive prestige Originals. I really liked that is the X-Men Cinematic Timeline, it is way. Additionally, signing up for Nebula will regular uploads, and create additional, more I rant about elves for a long while. All that and full 40% off an annual subscription, by following thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, notification icon to stay up to date on all