In front of me is the best Yamaha stage keyboard has the best combination functionality and key action. Whether you are a you won't get anything better than Is it a coincidence that this keyboard has an top-of-the-line Swedish stage keyboard that is to you. In this video I'm going to tell you 8 casual performing musicians before creating this right now! But no keyboard is perfect &amp; I'll also stay tuned till the end of this video. Before we keyboards, digital pianos, music learning apps For most musicians, an expensive $5,000 Nord stage keyboard recognised that their Reface series of mini quality sounds but many owners wanted full well as the ability to save panel settings. combining the sounds from pretty much every full size keys, an expanded interface This keyboard is designed to be performance scenario. I was immediately at in my studio connected to a DAW, or even just noodling with musical ideas on 61 keys version, the portability, battery it ridiculously easy to take this with detailed specifications in the video description. The CK61 is one of the 1st Yamaha stage that was originally developed for Yamaha's adjusted for inflation costs more than $100,000 The FSB keyboard has been improved over the PSR-SX arranger workstations and on Yamaha's exclusively in Japan and a few Asian countries. better cushioned and feels more premium flagship stage keyboards that cost many times between synth action keys and weighted piano and an increased key travel for a wider range velocity curves ensure you find the perfect key comes with Yamaha's GHS weighted graded key action is more suitable that's 2 1/2 times or 16 pounds more. In my of this keyboard for its key action. Serious similarly priced 88-key keyboard from another Both the 88 &amp; 61 keys CK keyboards come with You get the acoustic pianos and iconic 70's the FM sounds from Yamaha's legendary DX-7 found the Reface YC and a virtual analog synth engine the minute you get your keyboard, Yamaha sound containing patch combinations that will cover you like the factory programmed Live Sets, you can of 160 slots for storing your own "Live Sets" - more space. This level of professional great to gig with for a mere $999 is unheard list of all the sounds found on the CK61 One of the biggest advantages of an expensive ability to craft and morph sounds on-the-fly in intuitive interface that makes it easy to tweak manual since getting it. Various knobs and sliders resonance, and envelope settings. There are also envelope generators, and effects blocks which real time while you're playing. I also love samples a gritty organic tone. Just like Yamaha's a dedicated built-in drawbars from the Reface YC classic organ tones. With five different with controls for the rotary speaker, percussion you get to control the various harmonics of the on a real organ. I've found the best bundled deals There is no other keyboard from Yamaha at level of layer and split functionality. You can different parts from any of the 363 sounds on top full-sounding pads and textures. B and C on the fly with the back-lit multi-color easily adjusted with 3 conveniently located fade additional layered voices in real-time on the LCD screen shows which section of the giving you an almost infinite number of layer assign 2 voices to the left of the keyboard and assigned in a single layer with Voice A on the Voice C on the right side. Octave shifts, pitch bends and portamento are also easily This makes it easy to add these effects in real menu dive and fiddle with complex settings. If you check out another Yamaha keyboard I recommend in For those who are into desktop music production sound modules and synthesizers, this master controller keyboard for the price as a four-zone controller allowing you to sound modules or virtual instrument plugins and and transmitting advanced MIDI CC messages. connected sound generators and virtual instrument Set" for instant recall during live performances. a $999 Yamaha keyboard that I've seen so far. the ultimate 88-key weighted controller If you can imagine it, you can connect it. Yup, connectivity options on this keyboard. You get a which not just supports MIDI data but is also a to and from your connected devices. 5 DIN MIDI every keyboard under $1,000 are present on this connecting to other sound modules and keyboards. you plug in a USB stick for you to dump your data with the keys. You get a pair of proper stereo and Bluetooth for streaming backing tracks to the connect a dynamic microphone or a guitar and route effects such as reverb, distortion, compressor 2 assignable pedal inputs that supports half expression pedal for organ players as well as a huge list of possibilities too Professional keyboardists might scoff at the But with these monitor speakers and 8 regular with my band everywhere. I didn't have to lug point. To be honest, the pair of which comes with a fantastic are not meant for you to perform with but they Before I get to a couple of things I wish out my recommended digital pianos, keyboards There is absolutely no doubt we are getting an keyboard but there are 5 features I would are not deal-breakers but would make this a 1. The CK61 does not come with a my sheet music and my iPad which is really music rest doesn't cost much to manufacture. this keyboard as it is meant more as a stage single-track, single song recorder would be can download and use Yamaha's Rec'n'Share app to is an additional step and I had to have a suitable 3. A 73-keys version of this keyboard would stage keyboards which the CK61 is emulating have to reach for the octave +/- switch as often. supports audio streaming from your smart device been nice if we had wireless MIDI via Bluetooth 5. For such a ridiculously competent, full I was surprised an arpeggiator was $199 keyboard has an onboard arpeggiator but Don't forget to check out my recommended learning apps in the description. Smash effort in reviewing this keyboard. My name is