[Music] our net keeps getting deeper Boy B Wow, where are we, where are we, where are we? B, look for our location, OK, Aas, yes, let's look for the valley, what is this, boy, ha, this can't be difficult, ah, it's okay, don't think about it, take a shower straight away Let's just be friends, wherever we are, now we're drifting across the river, crossing the river, today's location is a bit different from the others. Yes, because this location is very good, we'll just make a tent using this tent later. Yes, we'll make a floor so it's taller. right, I'm in the river. Sometimes in the river it's entertaining. Why is this kid doing, washing his face, washing his face, the water is delicious, I'll swim, diving here, words for today, so what are you enjoying? What are you lying about? The water, there are trees, only we can look after them, wherever they are. Let's make a good one first, ah, that 's great, that's good, come on, let's do that. Yes, gas, gas, but let's think about it first. Are you afraid here? What's that? Later, you'll be careful, okay, okay, later, don't forget to take this stuff here, there's a lot more, I'm not tah big big otter we know how to swim Hey yut yut yeah Hey it's safe yeah I've cut it already I've cut it ah cone Cheer up [Applause] Bro ahah it's like this bro the river is a long river Sis Downstream there again yes be careful put the tasb first come on let's help what, friend, is this dangerous stuff? If it's wet, we won't be able to lose it. We don't have any bullets. There's no bullet. There's no bullet. There's Wi in the water. It's kind of like, bro. OK, come in and enter the mask first. Yes, that's right. That's right. Yes. That's right. Hey, we'll make it later. Ah, that's it. dive we dive we ok okay okay okay okay continue continue open B open asalamualaikum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh Waalaikumsalam warahmatullahi wabarakatuh see you again with valley camping and twoah great great okay friends all friends here we will collaborate yes of course but with two channels namely Lembah King and two Adventure we will make it here, it looks like this place is good, it's good, it's good, it's rare, this place is this, who is this? Yes, this is our brother from Papua, there's a video. Thank you, friends, what are you up to now, are you communicating, are you confused, what do you want to make, we'll bring it one tent, just one for the five of us, right, that's an initiative, bro, he said he wanted to build a shelter here later, if not, if you can, the shelter is for five of us, salterja, if not , then we'll spread the tent, right ? I'm going to have breakfast, noon, noon, what time is it 10 o'clock, there's something 10 o'clock, 10 o'clock, not yet noon, not yet noon, get a hat. Okay, okay, let's just wear short hair, okay? That 's cool, like that, can you swim deep? Come on, it's already here. Aungungi, it's stuck, it's stuck. ih ah, this is what you got, bro, here, hab suu first, let's take it again, this is good, ih oh, yut, pull , pull, pull, Hey, Lay y there, Lay OK, friends, Adventure and valley camping is like this, e compactness eh, what BII, our compactness, we are united, sor, we are talking a bit potan also togetherness, togetherness, full of struggles and challenges. Anyway, we want to enjoy this nature on the edge of the river, OK , we're almost careful , it's already finished, we've been waiting a lot Wow, that's enough, this bus can be cut in half, cut into small pieces, you can do it 2 Me 2 me, that's enough, that's enough, that's enough it's okay , I'm at, we want to play in the water first, let's float using bamboo. We 'll assemble it. Watch out for the transverse, transverse. What do you do, bro, Salal ? Have we had enough bamboo? Thank God, we can do it. If it's not enough, we'll look for it, if it's not enough, we'll add more, yes, we'll add, OK, fine. this is this this is this island is bamboo island bamboo island [Music] [Music] why [Applause] here under the big tree the big tree is the same sir OK S now we want to because we can clean it first yes yes yes yes we will clean -clean the location first, let's make firewood. Ah, this is wood Let's make firewood later, we'll make a campfire. If we can't, here, on the other side, we'll make a campfire . Yes, okay, Mantul, Mantup, Mantup, we 'll look for a safe place, we'll be in a high safe position, then it'll be flooded, it'll be dangerous, floods will be dangerous. Yes. that's right, fast, what's the parangnya parangangbangnyaang Sal melembah orangembah yes, that's right, that's right, that's right, manaaji Kita y, where's the kaji, there's no kaji, the one that's worse, the sharper it is [Music] okay, great , oh, where are the lots of veins, okay, great, OK , [Music] nail it up again I've got it [Music] when I 'm told to look for what I'm going to the floor, I'm going to bring this here , okay, great, Yudi, where's Yudi Yudi looking for more bamboo, less Oh, less ah, this is our yater friend, it looks like the King's Valley nihelter is about to become one, friends, with the experts This is Bang Sal and below there is Bangi who seems to be following bamboo and is shadowed by Andona behind him and our goal is to go up to the floor again. Look below there Andona is struggling. It turns out that with his very strong and persistent spirit, he can produce a floor that is very beautiful, friend, wow, here he is and Bang Salbrend is looking for rubber rubber to start a fire because Ma is cooking rice, friend, you can see from his face that he is very hungry, friend. Here he is, Zal Brandi, spirit, spirit, 45, what Parang parangi, borrow first borrow parangi said He, if he doesn't want to, just get angry a little Don, if he gets angry a lot, he'll go home later, he [Music] Bin Ah, it's been a long time , OK, friends, well, this is the temporary appearance for our shter, and on the left, the bangers are still looking for something to look for bamboo up there. Mi, when are we going to make something raft here Mi is the same on channel t Adventure Oh in another day or two more days we'll be here again Yes OK how come the campfire is already lit then so it's already lit OK Ah turn on the fans first my fans are big and there's a hole in them This is the table , let's look here, up, up, great, great, great, this boss, okay, ready, Samson, ha, strength [Applause] superhero, there's a fish, look at Diang, there's an eel. Wow, that's Yudi, back there, you can see he's carrying bamboo, he still doesn't have enough bamboo to use. floor he said y Yud waved to your hand y What's up There's shrimp there's shrimp there's shrimp there's shrimp where's there shrimp let's look let's see there's shrimp here there's shrimp ih ah fall yeah oh oh here it is Uh that's great wis I think it's a big shrimp shrimp look Sal haah this is oh it's delicious here Yud is still there Buu Yud up and down Yud still has a lot of lifting up and down this stage of splitting is still splitting yes it's still splitting let's see first Bang Bang what kind of guy is that, who's at the bottom here, friends, we're all neighbors at Camping Valley, OK, here it is, here it is It's already been cut, so raise it to the top, we're going to look for grilled Don to cook rice Don OK, use direct fire Yes, wait, wait, I'm already hungry. At the same time, cook it and cook for our weak campers, this is sweet fat, not sweet fat, valley, kembing valley, Yes, that's enough. here, yes, the wood is done Hm OK [Music] Haya Pak Don Hah why don't you wash the rice Don cook the rice Don okay guys, I'll make a stove, okay, okay, what kind of stove will we put here, come on in, we'll hang the homework here, well, then it won't slide enough, okay? Yes, yes, we can't move enough, where's the rice, Man? l King is our rice, what's that, where's ad l Why are you Astagfirullah OK, where's this bal coming in? Wait a minute, let's get together. Yes, oh, great, if all of your friends want to donate rice, please come here Yes , let's wait a moment. What's the problem? Do you put it in yourself, Mak, put the rice in, clean it, we want to cook the rice again, let's wash the rice first, I'm hungry, Sir , hungry, this is this, this is already okay, Ah, what kind of less is this? Yes, I don't need to cook the rice. J finger du finger finger Ji the fire has started or that has started AG lacks water , it hurts, it's okay, it's good, it's tied up, it's stiff, OK, it's good , it's good, it's good, I'm going to camp Aventur . After he's done it, he's screaming. If the problem is hot, please have a dream. H. Stir it. Don't give it a love. It's close to the fire. Yes, that's fine, bro. Ii It's hot, it's hot, it's dangerous, it's dangerous [Music] how about it, sir, it's hot, it's hot, try to open it, open it, look first, try to look, OK, okay, lunch, first of all, now we're looking for it, we're going to put it in Jar Ouch Yud Why Yud Why Yud Yud Hey Hah, why be careful Come on, let's go, that's a safe descent. Oh, it's safe, it's safe, it's a little dizzy, it doesn't affect it, okay, friends, in this adventure, we want to put a net in Danan, this is a tributary of the river, so we'll just put it in the child, then if there are a lot of fish in the main, there will be a lot of fish, right, bismillahah? Come on, let's do it, bismillah OK, friends, this event, we're going to put it up. Yes, don't put up a net. Ah, I know there's good fortune tonight for cooking tonight, but we've already got it, what's the matter, what's the food? OK, if we don't get it then we'll just bring it quickly and put it up and understand understand why you let people now now andona Yudi and Bangi and also Bang sabren what do you want to do, what kind of competition is it at night hold your breath hold your breath there, okay, let's count it, OK, one dut gas. Okay, what kind of rice is ours, ah, I've cooked it, friend. That's it. We left it for a long time, weren't we afraid it would burn out? Oh, if I die, you'll be cold. Yes , you lose, yes, yes, Yudi, yes, you lose, yes, yes, it turns out the winner is the one who wins, OK, it's already cooked, so we'll move the location, OK, we want to boil the water, OK, we want to heat it. water, we want to make coffee. Yes, the camera is lost, the moment is lost, the moment is great when we make coffee, OK ? Boil the water first, boil the water, hang it first, let's see, that's about it, don't add any more salt, what's this like, what's the box, the box straight away, yes, it's full. Add water. again , oh, not yet, not yet, can't wait , use more salt, don't use salt, sleep straight away, Dias G coffee, are we even sleepy, friends [Laughs] I'm talking about harming Chinese people. Smoking is calm, it's calm, it's great, it's good, it's good. Yes, this stove is magical. It's hanging, isn't it? I'm afraid it will break. Ah, no, the roots are strong. There's not even a rattan rope, so come on, where's the glass? Come on, here's the glass, Beb. Oh, yes, we can't do it like Sal. The brand is asking for help from Yudi's friends. Is it hot? D Sir Good Jan, rinse your hands OK, then put on the cloth, let's look for durian first, let's look for durian. Let's go drink it . Gas friends, now we are at the durian tree and we got three seeds, three, three of them are the thorns, but there's just a little more left. there's one Wis, it's great, there's this, it's small, we can get two , there's He, here it is, Wis, wow, I got it, but what's going on with the squirrel, ah, it's okay, we're lucky, we're lucky, we got three of these, there's a salak, we're here again, it's great, it's great El, it's beautiful, hmm Ha this is the result dah Weh where is Yudi where is Yudi ah that person took a long time to get it yes yes yes what durian did you get Yud what kind of durian did Yud get cakuk durian Yes this person bit this person for a long time what did the two of you do Yes no it's okay that's alhamdulillah there's sustenance right alhamdulillah four open y here A open i clever be clever open it while eating below Oh Ha open it Take a look C fill it up, it's finished, try it, taste it first, is it good or don't you think it's OK Oh it's soft, it tastes D one, try it first, taste it, let's try it again, sir, what's the matter? If you give it, use good coffee, you know, first give me coffee OK, it's delicious, it's delicious, let's rinse the durian first, guys, OK, buddy, we'll use durian for the coffee, friend, so it smells good. Look at the durian, sir, it's suitable. Wadan, the seeds won't dissolve or not? ni bang jol doesn't want to be late [Laughs] yeah wow that's hot Hey different people's ways are different it's been a long time, ah, this is the durian cut, it's called Wi Wow, Tumpah Tumpah, Tumpah, Tumpah, it's Hm Wow, it's not bad, the squirrel likes it, the contents are great, he's great, OK, friend, e to the adventure, now we've just finished drinking coffee, eating durian, and we're continuing work on the shelter and it looks like Bang Epi and Bang Zal haven't got the brand yet. There doesn't seem to be any movement yet. Wow, we're excited, okay? Let's continue to be enthusiastic, okay? Don't let's put up another tent, put up another tent, Dona climbs. Hoping there's a network, but there's none, but there's no way to get it. There's none, that's it, open Yud, what's the matter, Yud's tent [Music ] [Music] Yes, this was ordered, watch out, that's it , I gur uruh kanuruh Yar, what's the gurgle, this ger I'm paying is already broken Oh, maybe it's not strong enough, sorry, yes, left hand, no problem Oh, the left also accepts it, okay, okay then, that's who's behind you, Don, sir I got this cool, I wanted to look for fish first, he said, under these rocks, there were fish, it seemed like when he grabbed it, there were a lot of them, but don't hurry up, I got one, let's test it, who knows if it's a Pandi or not, ah, here's one, let's try it. yes, let's look, there's a look, you can see the fish is big, Wow, try it, let it go, let it go. Are there any rocks? Unfortunately, our camera can't dive. If we can dive, we can look at it. [Music] Isn't this roaring sound big , sir, because I want to remember the roaring sound ? Okay Tuventcure friends, because we are using tents, and Bang Epi made a shelter , so it turns out we got it ready first. and now we are asking for help and we are asking for help so that Anonda can copy us because we are tired, it seems Yes, we have to be solid, we have to be solid, our solidarity has to be high, what are we using for this wall, pretending to be clever, he is pretending to be clever. pretending you're not good at it [Music] means the same thing as bangul ya ma jasaruhayu bes here's how to do it, friend, how to stand thisama so I'm making the roof carefully now. Well, here he wants to turn the camera first, friends, the rain is coming, the rain is coming, we're going to send a part, so here it is The weather is heavy too, friends, and now we have installed the tape again so that we don't get rained on. Let's switch the camera, friends. Well, it 's also very heavy , that's Paki's good fortune . -same record Boss, it's safe, wait, wait, wait, wait, okay ? Wow , it's raining very hard, friends, friends, Vent Woi, it's safe, God willing, it's safe, trustworthy, handsome, open, handsome, OK, friends, W Ventur. Now we want to look for durian because it's raining. The wind knows it's there. More sustenance for our meal tonight, I've used an umbrella, ha umbrella, we're afraid what we'll do next. You know it's not H expensive for other people. Anjay ah, let's go uphill first, why Y Come on, let's go uphill, we'll go uphill too, come on, let's look for the durian, there's a wihah baah Wih it's big YH Thank God it's not going anywhere, right? Yes, this is durian. Smooth thorns. Smooth thorns. I'm sorry, the law is delicious. Po, we want to look for durian, you know, you can get it, you can get it, big guys, Wih, it's big, thank God, thank God, but we're going to have a squirrel, we're going to have a squirrel mbuk muk guuguk mbuk mbuk Gug tambuk that's the prayer do t that was the first time we found it wasn't a hole now it's a hole in this Mak forgot this Means this is a virgin ah Res don't go where to put our two dap Okay That's great it's not going [Music] anywhere sat what's the one that's just hanging out? Kara's not a virgin anymore, we're the ones who aren't virgins [Music] Dup OK, the search for durian is ready, you're back, Sal again. Yes, let's be careful, it's dark, it's dark, watch out for a slip [Music] a slip, here we go [Music] [Music] it can go a long way again Wow, I've used it the fake friend washes the durian lamp but the light isn't on yet the net is still on first the net Kamang a gaskan Sir we're safe where's the gas OK friendos ventus now we want to see the net that we put up with Yudi earlier Yes, come on, Ma, you know there's sustenance, right? That's right Yes, that's right It's true, is this a hunter, what is it, an adventurer, this is true, tonight it's extreme, it's the fun of the night, looking for durian, looking for fish, looking for fish, looking at the net, shooting wet, wet, our jar, our jar, put it in, the heavy rain also comes in, get another net. Eh, isn't it, Mas Brenor? it's raining, jumping Is there hahationgong Ouch Where is there one steady one ah it's okay there is yut Ah look eh here Gong two one Ha Mountain not anyone one a Alhamdulillah byh Alhamdulillah later we'll be at the river we'll hold on hold on this is the child this is the child's child The river holds on , hold on, hold the net again, let's net, let's run , run, sir, this is the gas. That's why you use pp leaves. That's why you use leaves. Oh, he's cold , ah, now friends, it's all raining heavily from last afternoon until tonight, we're putting up nets. first and for friends Don't ever get bored of watching our videos because our friends are extraordinary without our friends there is nothing there is nothing More help, friends, feel sorry for this, stop by near us, right sir Yes, stop by tuentent stop by first if the Valley stop by too Yes Valley like that and behind it right here it is again installation rise rise weh let's see D let's see first OK How Bang Bang Sal brand an midnight there is there Wih zong Man zong ouch ouch no Adong nah nah dong nah dong the fish ba Hold on then bangamp put on the lights put on these lights the water is getting deeper and deeper Wow it's cold friends Wow friends everyone makes an effort not betraying the results which results in an effort not betraying the results of your land we are nothing cool already understand him thisud coolness oh wow, the process of preparing the electricity installation because our electricity is cut off, we will install it so that everything will be bright and bright, oh, oh, the lights, hang on, it 's getting dark, manaar , ahah, this is what it's like at night. After the heavy rain, we're still wet, haven't changed our clothes yet, guys, OK, later Yes, that's it, bro, Iepi, it's really good to make lighting on that side and for this side, the situation is like this. Yudi is preparing to take a shower, yes, yes, yes, okay, what is this masalen, this is a rank, Wow, so what is this for? Wait, boil it, boil it, boil it or fry it. It's just fried, never tried it, never tried it. What do we say, what do we cook with chili sauce, don't do it, sir, if you can't, Yudi can do it. It 's still drizzling, yes, Aventur's friend, Andona is putting up a net. Looks the same. Camping valley looks. Tu looks. I look. OK. Ah. Be careful, I hope you get lots of fish, Amen. What are you up to? What are you going to do? Do you want to take a shower? Do you want to take a shower? So what are you going to do? We're going to cook again, right? Yes, clean up, Wow, Sian Mania. It's cold. It's not very cold. It's still new today. We're going to cook again. Yes. Ah. This seasoning is already cold and the noodles are spicy - just right for the bikini, yes, the red Ti is there with Yudi. This is our item. OK, the rubbish is finished. Yaya, the water is rising fast. Eh, some of the onions are left for cooking , so we can find the durian leaves. Rubi Bismillahirrahmanirrahim, let's cool down while cooking, okay, in the water, this place is flooded too, friends , people cook in the kitchen, and we are in the water. That's the great thing about people camping, it's extreme , there's something funny when the camera is closed using Da Camera. This is a mix, yeah, mix it up. If there's any red, where's the knife? Let's take a moment. Just bite what [Laughs] you bite. Wow, this is it, ah, yes , is it ready to go or not? Is this fried or how is it fried, fried first? there's chicken ba fried chicken too first then later kaang ap k ouch where did he marry this what ni MB this fried fried that MB Don safe under Don [Music] Ik cut it in half ah [Music] okay gas this is dangerous ni BJ we 'll do that but Ci I'm going in. I'm going to go in. I'll fry it. First the fish come in and it's slow. Like the effect of the struggle. Ha it's like this, my friends, you ha, how to move the camera, going in. It 's still still all, Bal J, one, all, all, all, OK, that's it. Wow, here's something It's old too. Don't Dona. Did the danubi danubi throw away half of the batong? Yes, there are also nails, apparently there are various ways to enter them, various ways to rank them if you want to study . Okay , let's put this in first, okay, later [Music] This is already the JAT wilts, yaan rice Mut rice mouth Yudi How dare you fish fish fish Man eggplant is for this friend right I eggplant eggplant eggplant Ah this eggplant eggplant is chopped fish fish lacks water Oh no or not then it will fall apart Oh salt where is the salt Put salt here ca no Sir no Yes try it cobaerieri yy y kena Well where's the mincin mincin mincin Mincin Wow the vegetables are cooked too Ha it's delicious ah it's delicious this gado-gado dish is called this, wait wait kaw, where's the length of the kac, what's your hand , be careful the chicken flies away [Music] cook less just a little bit of water, that's the problem, just a little bit of it, oh well, wow, it's ready, we're ready to put it in there, bro, what else can you put in there? This is this, this is ajamam digoram Ajam load this Sis, load this in iniat [Music] just repeat it like the Chinese cook, right? Wow great Cisi Hnya I'm cold eating noodles I'm hungry too I want to try it haah How about it Mak Jos mant can you use this Min or what do you give me give it a try taste it first apaeg Peg pegan Dul Bel not yet Oh use ser too so it's fragrant Add a little water so there's gravy h that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's okay, that's enough, make the fire bigger Don oh the fire that can be made bigger the fire is bigger Yes, make it bigger ah Yudi okay that's great H well, add a little more seasoning, OK, so that the flavor absorber will be gassed, the taste of W is finished, hush in the water too [Laughs] OK Ah Here, Bang Jul, we're using meatballs, okay, it's soft, like that, l This is Mi Alam collaborating with meatballs, meatballs, not latolato, not lato-lato like lato-lato Wow, how cool is Mi Wi c, wiih it's all over the place, there's one more left, Mi Mana, Eh, Bangi, corruption is corruption Dia Don Ah, you can't do corruption, it's dangerous Yes Wow hah hah I don't want to make a mess, it's a mess, that's a mess Miah OK, chicken first, May, chicken first, then you'll know Ay Yes W, where's our lot of chili sauce uh Yes, muk Bang muk Bang muk Bang We cook it big It's called mi i Oh, it's hot, it's hot, OK, Bangs Bren, the camera is on standby, we put it back in, you know, with the rod and the fish responded to our net earlier, yes, that's right, ah, the shot was shot, not the net, our net failed to enter, yes, it entered. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim, wis, it's full, really great, friend, it's very appetizing. Those of us who are interested, please come and camp with us, yes, come here, the place is above hand water and we are up there using a tent. Yudi has something to say. Yudi, for you, continue to support us until we exceed 100 subscribers, it's already great, it's a mess, it's a mess. Wi fish is a complement to him, right? so it's a complement to the fish in my friend. Yes, first of all, is it just right? How about it? How manyos? Manyos? That's great? It's hanging around , I'm going to try it, let's try it, C cob. Bang, this is exciting, friends, how about we eat again ? OK, here, friend. OK, we'll just have a plate. Yes. we pear Let's eat eat food P where is this Move here move here we Karis first let's crush it feels like it looks like it looks like it looks hot this is it let's eat again y Eat eat eh this has accommodated accommodating what we are surprised by the cold and this is ahmadanto Mr Lamb's son okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay Boy we'll eat again a invite us to eat okay friends two expentor and valley campers now our food has been served it's time let's eat together at night and make friends prepare your rice and la you guys okay okay Su suu want us to just bbat yes we'll just be the last okay Mr. Cameraman the temperature used to be good the temperature of all temperatures Where is he Here is where Ik I have to hold this fish ouch eh KB all yes, this is for Yuda ni, this is for Yuda ni Where is Yuda here [Applause] [Music] for this u already remember Ouch, you have to hold this if you don't spill it Eh, this is turmeric , what's wrong, how to eat up, OK, Adventure friends and Valley camping friends, we want to Boil some water first, we're going to drink coffee, finish eating, OK, I'm right, OK, Bang, I'll eat it, drink coffee, then we'll go to bed. Oh yes, eat durian, what's the durian? Where's the durian? Oh, here's the coffee. OK, ready, my boss, okay, those who don't like it coffee, no need to drink coffee, OK, okay, I'll take durian, let's take some, take some of the good ones, Yutan D, all okay, okay, okay, okay, that's enough, that's enough, that's enough, what's wrong, what's cold, what's cold, what's cold, but what's cold, what's cold, what's cool, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? that's straight to the coffee Noh no need for this Just go if I If it's not good he'll waste it then he'll waste it okay okay okay okay where D Yud got it Yud don't do anything Yud Well that's Yudi and Dona Dona making coffee Yudi has a problem with his durians He's going fast, here's the spoon, we're washing it, and this one is busy, our cameraman, yes, this is our handsome cameraman, he 's from India, he's from Pengusian, what's a split durian? Oh, Bosnia, eh, it's nice to open it. It's good to open it first. Let's drink coffee too. Then we'll do it later. Monitor the location here, we're looking at the net, and there weren't any mipi installed downstream there, friend, I hope I'll get the love. Yes, let's wash it first, okay, let's split the durian using coffee milk, coffee milk, Bang Epi, it turns out we're cold in the water. This turned out to be very cold, really spurred Arden, we thought it wasn't cold, it turned out to be cold. OK, boss, be patient, Wow, be patient, be patient, guys, be patient, be patient, guys, don't be in a hurry, passion, friends, it's very cold, friends, Naga Puspa's super power Naga Puspa and Ei turned out to be okay, Tu 1 2 t, it turns out all the seeds mate WH are great mate even though the seeds are coming out but the taste of the flesh is really good it's pretty real this is how good it is try this this is this I'll try it first I'll taste it first OK let's try Mar smack it Bismillahirrahmanirrahim Hm bismillah great mate even though the seeds are coming out mate but the contents are very sweet So when it comes out it's delicious [Music] let's try it first OK Wherever it is, just choose the big one, just choose Noodles, how about the coffee? Okay, use the coffee, the coffee is already boiling, guys, let's boil the coffee, we'll pour it OK, ready D, okay, great, Don Okay, Don Okay, D Okay, hot, hot Did you use durian? Look at that, it's already sweet [Laughs] when we both haven't got it, bro. Yes, we C them. This one is just two sitit first , oh, one of these is just three. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim he already has it, but sir, three copies of this durian, three coffees, so that's it. Let's go in all three, OK? Yes, don't put the seeds in. Right in the dikelupek-pelupak, just put it in and go in, no need, it'll fall apart later, yes, no problem, bro, Bren, it doesn't matter, it's sexier, she's aesthetic, right? Oh yes, G Gemo H, open it Oh, that's it what is it, what is this durian Oh, what kind of durian coffee tastes like durian kopiah? Oh, you use your hands, not coffee, KJA gas milk, Bang gas. Hm, well, that's delicious, wow, that's delicious . [Applause] wow, I'm waiting for him to cut open the durian, but I'm already a virgin, Wow, kopien durian coffee coffee H, how does it taste? Yes, it tastes like durian coffee. Yes, that's about the pain of the durian. We get two pana . A, what are you? Watch out for wounds, there will be all kinds of sharp machetes, ahah, here's the durian again, friend. This adventure is on purpose. We're still wet. Why do we Kal still want to have fun, bro? I'm going to bleed easily, easily, easily, easily, because if Let's change our clothes, they'll get wet again, right? Then when we want to sleep, then we'll change, that's wrong, what does that mean, just adventur? Oh Iting yating, don't look at him, OK, sorry, sorry, I can't see you, Sir, protected. Yes, protected. Yes, it 's blocked if we want to sleep right now, anak sanggil. everyone is jugudahiudahuam and also that's it, we're going to say goodbye first, we're going to have to say goodbye first, we're going to have a rest, sleep, Manjul Yes, saying goodbye to ourselves because we're already tired of soaking in here all day Yes, but it's quite fun and relaxing for ourselves, let alone friends, ah, I hope friends -friends, everyone was entertained by our activities. I'm so confused. Amen , don't forget to sip your coffee. After drinking this coffee, we'll go to sleep again. Okay, after that, subscribe, like and also comment below so that we know what you want to all of your friends, so that We're even more enthusiastic , wow , sir, wow, uh, there's one . Sil Bumba what is this sir tapah fish tapah fish Wih pregnant Wow, how many months have you been getting married for clothes? [Applause] first, I've seen you, I'm handsome, I'm coming in, I'm going to sleep, I'm going to sleep now, I'm going to close my head, Allahu, what's going on, is it holding on to our salter ? Thank God, we need to put up a mosquito net, O Allah. Akmar