For hundreds of years, the tomb of sculptures, film, and other visual depictions? What secrets might still the Savior's tomb would have appeared at Over 900 tombs have been discovered in This research allows us to capture a picture of carefully examining statements from the we will attempt to recreate, with most detailed and accurate renderings First, we need to understand some of the key designs in Jerusalem during the first century AD: Shaft tombs were similar to what we observe was excavated deep into the ground where bottom. Stone slabs would then be placed was filled with dirt or rocks. A simple This method only describes about 5% Gospels indicate that the tomb of Jesus the idea of a shaft tomb and indicates one were either carved directly into existing Before we explain those two styles of tombs, let's first dig into some of the common Commonly, ancient tombs were established in once cut large blocks for the construction of an opportunity for an ideal location for family the shear vertical walls for digging In modern-day Jerusalem, beneath what is now the once existed. This quarry dates as far back as by the time of Jesus. Most scholars agree that site of Jesus' crucifixion and nearby tomb. Over soil from higher elevations filling in sections this fresh soil made the location an excellent in particular, connects the site of Jesus's Such unique details are important as we seek Many tombs carved directly from the bedrock provided families with a proper place Because so many tombs were cut from old benches around the courtyard where mourners women sat at the entrance of the tomb of Often tombs featured a stone overhang in who recorded a visit to Jesus's actual entryway. Thus, the tomb of Jesus was likely had a garden nearby. The tomb having a perhaps unused quarry stones, and an overhang Now let's focus on the tomb's actual entrance. A Jesus's tomb is a large, round rolling stone, could this image be completely wrong? What Blocking stones came in two primary perhaps with a slightly rounded bottom that from one edge to the next. This kind of blocking designed and sized specifically for the with rectangular stones were generally into place with only a few men. These openings half a meter in height. A visitor was then knees. Rectangular blocking stones are by far the The second type of rolling stone had the round only four examples of the round stone type have found in Jerusalem. Rounded stones were set into a close the tomb. This track usually slanted towards to close and more difficult to open. In addition, the primary wall to prevent the rounded stone a round blocking stone could be held in place this wedge was removed and the blocking design might explain why the women who arrived expressed concern that they did not know Rounded stones could be extremely heavy, most modern depictions of this scene in paintings reality. In fact, peering inside such tombs would So what type of stone was used to seal the tomb of many scholars suggest it would have actually been now let's discuss the tomb's interior, The two remaining styles of tombs are the of tombs were found in rock-cut chambers, same chamber. Jesus' tomb would very likely The Loculus tomb or sometimes called a Kokhim tomb the first century. loculi were long, narrow measuring about 2 meters deep, and about half for a single corpse. The body was wrapped head at the back of the shaft. With the body Loculi were the most common style of tombs, as removing the stone slab. The placement of the loculus shafts were closer together, more making them more common and economical. Since death was very prevalent in ancient one room chamber for their tomb. As their new shafts could be carved into the family tombs could become quite elaborate gospels mention that the tomb of Jesus was a hinting that the tomb of Jesus would have only The third type of tomb was the arcosolium. This walls of the main chamber, usually with an archway a little more than 2 meters in length. Arcosolium thus less common. Only about 15% of Jerusalem's Let's return to the question of the tomb's stone was likely used. Although rectangular stones only 4 known round examples from archeology-the of it being an "extremely large stone" or the detail that those who entered the tomb had square or rectangular blocking stone to enter on their hands and knees. to imply a tomb with a round rolling stone, The next piece of evidence helps laid to rest in a loculi or arcosolia. John she saw two angels "sitting where the body of at the feet." Unless these angels were very short, fits the description. Mark adds that the angel indicating that the arcosolium "bench" where Luke mentions that when Peter looked into the on the bench where the body had laid, despite tomb faced east, because only an east-facing tomb the Gospel writers provided. If the entrance the angle would become more difficult for clothes on the bench. An arcosolium bench was whereas loculi were most often at ground to illuminate the main chamber and tall of the arcosolium. A smaller entrance, with So what would the tomb of Jesus have looked like? within a quarry and surrounded by unfinished cut other women could sit in a courtyard and mourn an overhang or porch. The entrance had a short, by a round blocking stone. Entering or looking would see an unfinished tomb with an arcosolium By combining all these details we can finally event in human history took place. This overcoming both sin and death. While knowing one's faith, the beauty that accompanies better of the ancient texts is deeply significant! Jewish tombs changed significantly. If the even a few decades later, their descriptions a genuine eyewitness could have included these confirm the truthfulness of Christ's resurrection, Their witness testifies of the truthfulness of Because Jesus Christ broke the bands will rise again. It is through His death be washed clean of our sins through