You're awoken in the night by the hatch Members of your family shriek in horror as space, barking furious orders in German and On the lapels of their coats, the terrifying the glow of their flashlights. This is yet another detachment charged with territory, and despite years of hiding away, You and your family are manhandled out of and screaming, before being tossed into the If you try to escape, they'll kill you. But death might be a reprieve compared to camp. As a Jew, or one of the many other minority and 40s, if you were caught by the SS or the captured, and then sent to a concentration While the possibility of you being snatched a Jew is already a concern, what's more happen. Your journey to a Nazi concentration camp route. It twists and turns, influenced by your background arbitrary quota. To reiterate, perhaps you find yourself here Nazis - communists, socialists, trade unionists, Or maybe you were deemed undesirable for the mentally ill, petty criminal, or simply seen Some unfortunate souls ended up here through in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others faced imprisonment for their religious to bow to the new order. Or maybe you are simply one of the primary of the Jewish faith and ethnicity, considered boot. Even the journey to the camp is designed to and shame, to terrify you, regardless of who or sick. The arrival process is meant to crush your all part of a system that seeks to dehumanize The Nazis will do anything to break you. Once taken, you are forcefully loaded into to a concentration camp chosen by the soldiers. In this vehicle, you will meet other Jews with terror. There is barely enough space in the vehicle, small window or no window at all. You are denied water, food, and even the basic If you or the many other prisoners crammed yourself, you are provided a bucket and nothing Without food or water, you are starved and filled with the smell of vomit, excrement, The uncertainty of where you are being forcefully extricate yourself from. This journey you are forced on can take days... do anything in the face of anxiety and terror Sometimes, being transported in overcrowded family members who were also captured along Worse still, there is no hope whatsoever that Perhaps they die in transit. Perhaps they are executed by the trigger-hungry Perhaps they simply get sent to a different The truth is, you may never find out. You are also never told where you are being This situational blindness makes the entire If you were arrested in the later part of of concentration camps in the East. If you were privy to this information, maybe Maybe you are already aware of the dreadful East. Regardless of what you know, you can do nothing Still, nothing will prepare you for the misfortune fences of the concentration camps. Like the many unfortunate souls being walked itself felt like a march toward certain death. However, whether by a stroke of bad luck or packed into the airless freight vehicles or You see, transport conditions were often lethal Without access to food and water and with trips being a bucket, the airless transport are filled with the aforementioned overpowering Hence, many prisoners died en route to the or illness. You may watch while this happens, or you may souls as you gasp your final breath on the When you arrive at the camp, you are pushed rather despairing situation. At first, you are led as one big group. Then, the soldiers split you and other prisoners children. Afterward, you and the other terrified prisoners one of the scary SS guards in tan uniform your age, occupation, and health condition. As a prisoner who has just been ostracised family, denied access to basic pleasures such miles without food or water, it isn't unusual arrival at concentration camps. Hence, depending on your answers to the questions fit for work when the SS officer points his if his digit points to the left. As a prisoner during the Holocaust, the grim condemned to death with a simple gesture from befell many, including you. The moment those fingers pointed to deem you as you realized the cruel destiny that awaited. Hundreds of thousands of Jews who were considered importance in concentration camps faced this As you are led away towards the gas Chambers, you may kick and fight and beg for mercy. However, there was never a means of escape; whose remembrance of your face is nothing The abruptness of this sentence, the finality spirit. What if you survived? Well, you just have to face and somehow endure After you experience the extremely dehumanizing by equally terrified strangers who shared to coexist with Germans, you are put through You are asked to strip yourself of your belongings; life has no place in these camps. Clothing, valuables, personal items - everything be returned. Passing the selection process might have meant However, even this relief is short-lived. After being forced to surrender your possessions, SS guards attempt to register you into the Registration means you are given a prison In the past, before you were plucked off the if you were a male Jew or "Sarah" if you However, in this camp, the entirety of your number instead. The assigning of prison numbers was a deliberate you to mere numbers devoid of humanity. Sometimes, this number is stitched onto your two-piece made out of uncomfortable fabric. Sometimes, especially at Auschwitz, this number After the registration process is completed, hundreds of prisoners and the watching guards. There and then, your head is shaved regardless groups while SS guards watch you with extreme Finally, you will be given your prison uniform, be allowed in their camp. Life in a concentration camp meant you were to herd you like a flock. In a way, you have indeed become a flock, most barbaric treatments possible. The hierarchical structure in many concentration the first Nazi concentration camp. You will soon discover that the German staff or camp commander and a team of junior officers. Besides these specially-trained officers, whom you had to respond. Similarly, you will also discover that prisoners with prisoner-supervisors or Kapos being considered Every other prisoner outside the kapos, including badges to identify the reason prisoners were Living conditions in the camps are nothing Soldiers, given absolute power by Hitler, no better and thus offered the barest minimum This means you most likely will be assigned fewer people than those that ended up crammed If you are unlucky, your barrack would be that make life even more miserable and intolerable Of course, the guards give you a bed to sleep However, these beds are tiny bunks that are on muddy floors. Don't get too comfortable thinking you get The limited space available in these camps too-small bed with other prisoners. Hence, while the bunks were designed to hold reality, they held up to 18 prisoners with When there weren't any more bunks to spare, extremely thin materials or, even worse, damp You are also provided no bedding or blankets tiny cot. These straw mattresses, if provided, were urine or infested by lice or ticks. As expected of anywhere with such awful sanitation, lice, rats, and other vermin that facilitate Naturally, as one would expect, diseases spread This means you are constantly surrounded by one. In your barrack, heating came in the form sufficient for heating the entire rooms, let Sanitation facilities were inadequate, leading once again, the spread of disease. Still, this isn't all. Your daily battle for survival revolves around meager rations provided by the Nazis. The indifference towards your well-being is to sustain you at a bare minimum, not to nourish The meager portions, consisting of watery piece of sausage or cheese, were far from The mealtimes, if they could be called that, of camp life. The gnawing hunger that eats away at your your body, leaving you vulnerable to illness, desperation. The struggle for even the smallest scraps succumbing to the brutal living conditions the initial sorting process. Worse still, you are expected to provide labor The type of work you engage in while held the camp. However, you may be asked to perform tasks digging trenches, or factory work. You may also be assigned tasks related to clerical duties, crafts, trades, labor on In concentration camps, you are introduced hours per day while being watched like hawks It becomes the norm for you to get beaten or go out of the line of duty without permission. If you manage to survive the living conditions, to stress and dying from being overworked. If you survive those, you are either beaten pigs for medical experiments. Inevitably, given the deplorable living conditions, However, the anti-Semitic regime showed no unworthy of life, denying you even basic medical Minor injuries festered untreated, while grave the fate of many. Typhus, dysentery, and tuberculosis are just the camps, waiting to take you out. The combination of physical hardship, constant toll on your mental state. Depression, hopelessness, and despair became for survival. Still, you have no choice but to suffer day Life for the average prisoner held in Nazi a daily lineup that took place unfailingly Whether it rained, snowed, or was bitterly to always be present for the Appel. You wake up to the chilling reality of another and 4:30 am every day. The air is heavy with despair as you and other by the sound of a loud gong and Kapos yelling. As you open your eyes, the harsh reality of darkness. You are just one among the countless souls It wasn't unusual to find the bodies of stiffly in their cramped sleeping positions, Although now considered nothing more than Germans, these bodies were probably your family Or simply a companion who shared the hard So, you grieve. If you are unlucky, you get to experience to the making of a bed following very strict Following SS guards, you are expected to make However, given the limited space caused by due to stress and malnutrition, and unnecessary will fail. When this happens, you are beaten, sometimes watch. In many cases, you knew this person. They could be your neighbor... your doctor... or a local clerk. If you somehow manage to make your bed, you water available in the camp, and of course, Afterward, you get breakfast in your mess-tin, Dinner is an unappetizing meal of stale bread luxury of milk or sugar. On good days, you receive a thin slice of Like many things that went on within concentration was tinged with maliciousness. Sometimes, Kapos single you out as an act mud. Sometimes, they push you, spilling your watery When this happens, you either forfeit your dust it off as best as you can, and eat. After breakfast, you are expected to respond roll call. Regardless of the circumstances, except for every prisoner was required to assemble for Even the deceased were expected to be present, of the gathering, a gut-wrenching reminder During The Appel, you and your fellow prisoners by the Kapos under the watchful eyes of SS Any movement was met with swift and brutal beatings for the slightest infraction. The counting process, often repeated to ensure standing in formation, sometimes in harsh The physical strain was immense, causing prisoners carries severe consequences. Attempts to evade The Appel were met with facing beatings, torture, or even death as Once the roll call was completed to the satisfaction to your assigned work sites on foot, varying Forced to sing degrading songs for the guards' pace under the threat of violence for any Falling behind meant risking severe punishment, to comply with the guards' demands. When noon rolls around, you will be signaled call. It's like the morning all over again: A to stand at attention, this time under the they had done. Afterward, lunch is provided, which is a small This was the norm in the earlier years. However, later, the German soldiers arranged to reduce the amount of time spent walking amount of time spent working. You are typically released from labor at approximately Sometimes, you may even be forced to work However, when work ends in the evenings, you roll call of the day. While you may manage to stumble back the distance who had passed away during duty will be carried in the evening roll call. Once again, inaccuracies were unavoidable, counted meant that the roll call could take The process is often also made longer as a If you endured the day's ordeal without punishment, you are granted the meager dinner soup. Once again, the familiar routine of presenting the night repeated itself, a reminder of the Or maybe you wound up In the lesser fortunate prisoners. In this case, after back-breaking labor, you they are given free time. You and other prisoners around you may use trading one item for another item you may If you manage to get dinner, you are expected is over. Lights out is typically by 9 pm in many camps, Once inside your barrack, leaving during the To ensure no prisoner attempts to sneak out, the grounds, keeping their eyes peeled for Blockfuehrers were often also called Death They wore green triangles on their uniforms, These soldiers had the power to determine during bedtime. They decided who lived or who died as punishment. Retreating to the barracks at the end of the of the day. However, this also meant you had to live through The lack of essential medical facilities and would lead you to a grim fate. While there were designated sick bays or infirmaries, compassion. In some camps where fellow inmates were tasked attempts to aid you and other ailing companions. However, the overwhelming challenges of rampant shortages of medical supplies rendered these Many diaries that survived the Holocaust featured camps. Regardless of the camps where these diary experiences as you: the infirmaries, typically the camps, had no water, no plumbing, no electricity to those in barracks, and repugnant straw blood. On each filthy mattress are at least two sick almost always covered with scabies, boils, In cases where there is a disease outbreak, uncommon to find more than two sick people They lay shivering from cold, suffering, and Or at least waiting for death. Despite the lousy living conditions that you hope. Hope continues to flicker like an undying You attempt to live life as you normally would, alive. Maybe you keep journals and diaries that detail and the camps. Maybe you write about your daily life on scraps you are forced to live in. Maybe you create artwork instead, creating in a concentration camp. Or maybe you choose to produce jewelry out Regardless of what medium you choose, your prisoner living in concentration camps during reminder of the resilience and humanity that Amidst the shadows of despair and suffering, solace in your faith, traditions, and artistic Amid such darkness, these small acts of defiance intact. Life in Nazi concentration camps was a routine With basic rights stolen from you and nothing prison uniform on your back, Nazi concentration stark reality of survival in a nightmarish Your daily struggle for survival is marked the dehumanizing routines of roll calls that punishment or death for the slightest infraction. Irrespective of the pervasive darkness that of Jews and other unfairly detained prisoners display remarkable strength and humanity in Through your artworks and pieces of writing, despite the Germans' attempts at snuffing These stories are haunting narratives that human spirit... the ability to endure even the power of spiritual strength and hope in Up until all prisoners were rescued through prisoners in Nazi concentration camps endured resilience, and general will to survive. Their liberation from the horrors of the camps filled with shocking cruelty, loss, and trauma, human depravity a silver lining and hope for However, even this liberation did nothing those affected... as well as the world at large. Following the liberation of Jews from the camps, survivors were faced with the daunting grappling with the trauma of their experiences, had faced. The legacy of the Holocaust and the sufferings of unchecked hatred, uncontrolled bigotry, to remember the past... strive for a world that works for the freedom and safety of the Now check out "Real Reason Why Nazi Officers Or watch this video instead!