Transcriber: Min Zhang Thank you. Retirement. It's a word. It's a dream. It's the epitome of living the good life. Yet for many, it's an enigma wrapped We live in a world that More gadgets. More trips. But rarely does it tell us But what if we shift our lens? What if we shift our focus from all to also intentionally Today, I want to talk The shift towards understanding, managing First, a brief background on me. I've worked in the financial services spending the first half of my career at two of the world's And today, I lead my own where we help successful professionals invest smarter and retire on their terms. Now, with that context in mind, let me assure you that of inadequate preparation for retirement many, many times. The impact is often understated, but invariably disheartening. For example, did you know that in the UK, the average income for pensioner couples is around PS2,200 per month? Now I can almost hear your thoughts. Average, but Amyr, I'm attending a TEDx talk. (Laughter) Point taken. But when we delve into the specifics, it becomes glaringly clear that a substantial number of people Let's crunch some numbers. According to a recent survey by the Pensions and Lifetime to live comfortably in retirement, a couple would need an income assuming no lingering housing costs So, while the average income of PS2,200 per month is no pittance, it's far removed from the PS3,500 you'd need to live the good life. But numbers can be faceless. You might have come across a neighbor, an elderly neighbor who is driven by necessity rather than choice. Or maybe you know someone who has had for a smaller, more affordable space, To bring this closer to home, let me one of the individuals I have in my financial planning practice. Sarah has recently found herself facing a financially challenging position When her father passed away, he left behind Sarah's mother and just a small income from This has necessitated a drastic forcing her to accommodate and take over her financial support. These aren't mere anecdotes. They're stark reminders. They highlight the very real consequences of taking a back seat Now, as someone who dedicates to helping successful professionals I've realized that as long as people have enough money to sustain they often adopt a rather So, I invite you all and participate in an exercise with me. And if you can't stand up for any reason, please feel free to join in And if you're watching at home, I'm going to ask you three questions. Ready? Okay. So here's the first question. Without looking in your purse or wallet, do you know how much money If you do, please stay standing. So in my experience, about a third It feels about right. Okay. So, here's the second question. Think of the last time you withdrew or made a transaction of that amount. Can you account for it? If you can and you know what you spent Otherwise, please sit. Typically about half of those left So far, so good. Okay. So, here's Can you detail your expenses If you can, and perhaps you have and you could tell me exactly how much Otherwise, please sit. Now, surprisingly, most people can't account So for those still standing, You are more financially Let's give them a round of applause. (Applause) What's astonishing is that even and personal finance I found these questions continue This lack of financial awareness for us financial planners. Our challenge is not just of what financial planning is but tailoring our message to those who are mostly unconscious And this is especially true for those who seem to have it all together You see, your money has all Today, the income you make from your caters to your current lifestyle and hopefully some of it goes But there's an expiration When the time comes, it's your assets, what you own, that needs to carry the baton and support your lifestyle costs. So how can we ensure that Imagine for a moment I invite you to close your eyes Can you feel the warmth of the sun (Laughter) Or do you hear the crunch as you wander through some trails? Or perhaps you smell the aroma from bustling cafes Believe it or not, folks, But this might be the most towards living the good life. Yes, you need to know your numbers, but knowing how much you need to ensure is completely intertwined with knowing what your dream retirement What gets measured gets managed. So once you have a clear vision how can you figure out the size of Well, let me introduce you to a handy rule So please take a moment and pull out your And while you're doing that, the rule of 375 enables you you would need today whatever monthly spending requirement which incidentally somewhat matches for a couple retiring in their 60s. The rule of 375 is based on a well-known "the 4% rule", but it takes into account the fact that most of us think of our And it also makes a rough as most of us think So let's work through Imagine that you have worked through and you've figured out of PS3,500 per month to achieve it. To gauge the size to sustain this level of spending, simply multiply this monthly So in this example And when you press equal, you'll see So, using the rule of 375, If you were retiring today and planning for the next 30 years, you'd need to have a nest egg Now, let that number sink in for a moment. PS1.3 million. It's quite the figure, isn't it? But this is why we're here today. The rule of 375 serves the importance of being conscious And hopefully, this drives home but planning, strategizing and preparing. Think of it this way: every penny you save, is a step towards your Every financial decision has to that sun-soaked beach But, without a clear financial plan and taking the proactive the gap between where you are now and your version of that PS1.3 million Now, it's pivotal to underscore that The intricacies of financial planning So consider working with to help you further refine this figure. Incorporating elements and other income sources that The effects of inflation, the effects of long-term financial But use this rule of thumb and take a moment to evaluate How much have you stowed and at what rate are you adding to it? Does your current financial trajectory If not, knowing the gap is And remember. Creating a financial plan A static financial plan So regularly review your plan, and ensure you keep the cycle going. Because only by adapting can we hope and the ever-changing realities of life. So don't just dream of the good life. The blueprint is in your hands. Take the steps required with purpose and excitement. After all, tomorrow isn't just a new day. It's your good life waiting to unfold. Thank you. (Applause)