Although it's villain repertoire isn't quite as Dreamworks, Illumination still has more than a few and pretty dang evil - and it looks like we're Illumination's upcoming film, "Minions: The Rise we want to take a look at Illumination's current I'm Kifinosi with WickedBinge, and this Naturally, we're going to be villains before working our way up For our least bad villain, we've selected The the Grinch still technically counts as a as the Chuck Jones incarnation or the Jim Carrey the Grinch can be a bit of a jerk, usually for no the film where he casually messes with people in kid's snowman to purposely breaking a jar of jam Grinch's status as a thief - the guy literally But despite this, the Grinch actually has more kind towards both his dog, Max, as well as his jerkiness, he doesn't do too many actual crimes. Next up on our list is the bunny villain was the leading member of the Flushed Pets after appearance, he was pretty dedicated to his gang more than happy with his life of crime any house pets or humans that get in his revenge for them accidentally killing Viper. being seen as relatively 'insane' as well as an Snowball finds love again through a young girl Captain Snowball in the sequel. He's not the most very least. Much like the Grinch and Gru, who Snowball actually has a pretty good heart Following him is a more recent baddie, Klaus film's main antagonist - and don't worry, enough to earn the antagonist status. He's no jerk and may even fall under abusive, given his perfection from the start, Klaus takes any this through his interactions with Johnny, physically. But even after Johnny becomes a that Johnny doesn't deserve to be considered try and sabotage Johnny during his "Sky Full of If not for Nooshy's encouragement Klaus would have completely ruined Johnny's not a hugely villainous act compared to our and selfish. Thankfully, Klaus does redeem himself Johnny wins their dance battle. Still... would it Getting a quick mention is the secondary Herb Overkill, husband to Scarlet Overkill. chill and friendly guy, even towards the Minions Speaking of which, Herb is also an incredibly say what you will about his morality, is still Herb is still an accomplice to his wife's evil you could make an argument that Scarlet maybe is. We also can't forget how, while not Herb still tried to torture and kill "Following orders" and "being supportive" actions, but his likable and not-too-evil Going back to the studio's Dr. Suess adaptations, we aren't going to be delving into the craziness we're willing to cut the Once-ler a bit of slack, all trees and he clearly regretted his actions Even so, it was still the Once-ler's choice to the sake of both financial gain and the temporary "How Bad Can I Be?" montage also showed how lying about things like having the Lorax's to charity. Even if he did try to correct enough damage and made enough selfish choices Up next is the cowardly yes-man (er, personal assistant to Jimmy Crystal. her job for the most part and is willing to much more blatant about how much he's boss' unacceptable behavior. Jerry is the one who and is also the one who frees Jimmy after Buster to try and kill Buster. But even after that, Jerry innocent" when he sees the wolf getting arrested, seen those yes-man characters who seem to stick how cowardly Jerry is and how much he outright one of the worst - more so than Herb Overkill, Returning to "The Lorax", we have Aloysius O'Hare villain - in fact he's... pretty pathetic Aloysius serves as Thneedville's greedy originally thought of the idea of selling oxygen forcing people to continue to buy his product than Ted starts asking about trees and threatens his him - from not-so-subtly threatening Ted and hopes of destroying the last truffula tree seed. that's pretty much the extent of his evil but he's no supervillain or attempted murderer Next is the first Despicable Me's Miss Hattie, the contempt for the children she's forced to look iron fist. When one of her first moments is her never get adopted, you just know that she's "Box of Shame" that she uses whenever the orphans how unapologetically mean she is - or at least and outright frustrating. This is honestly why not being as big as those from the Once-ler Miss Hattie's evilness doesn't quite Managing to get a good spot on the pecking Illumination movie, "Hop" was one of the studio's Being the head chick of the Easter Bunny's fed up with bunnies getting all the fame and to earn the title of the Easter Chick. He can be given the fake kind persona that he uses to to seize control of the Easter factory and usurp Carlos also tried to kill both Mr. Bunny a vat of boiling liquid candy. Yikes... He also and bird seed instead of candy which, while While he's pretty silly, Carlos shows that even a We're going to be ranking El Macho next. Out seen so far, El Macho is probably the of course. In his hayday, he'd frequently rob over the world using rabid Minions. El Macho Lucy when they became a threat to his plans - and nearly sent them into a volcano. This was kind of El Macho was actually a fairly decent guy. He consoling Gru when he was sad about Lucy leaving learning that Gru wanted nothing more to do with and a good caretaker to his pet chicken. While we both in the past and present, his genuinely It really is a shame that he couldn't Getting into our Bottom 5, we now have Sergei. of Pets 2", Sergei is an evil circus owner He's cold-hearted and very much plays into As such, he's naturally pretty cruel towards his What makes him one of the worst Illumination to go. When Sergei first appears, a scared tiger cub, into a rug if he doesn't he threatens to kill his wolves if they he actually tries to kill the poor tiger! There and the only reason he isn't any higher is simply Up next is the villainous Vector. Being the the first Despicable Me movie, Vector is a He's obnoxious and, if his first can't really take a hint. Vector, however, pretty evil. While stealing famous landmarks may murder or world domination, it doesn't take him In the climax of the film, Vector kidnaps not even keeping his word after Gru gives him that put the girls in danger, and he isn't even much about the safety of strangers or solicitors, Vector is pretty awful, but we felt that he because there's anything redeeming about him, but Earning the Bronze Medal of Evil is the most writing, Jimmy Crystal. If you thought an evil businessman. A bit of a cliche, yes, but Jimmy villain regardless. Being someone who's used and not-so-subtly threaten others when they reputation. With a small army of security guards Theatre troupe in the hopes of stopping their show While attempted murder may be small potatoes when more than enough to get Jimmy a high ranking was to succeeding. We have to wonder though... How how many attempts have succeeded? After all, there Jerry are so intimidated by him. Jimmy is also being dismissive of her and even insulting her Really, if not for our bottom two supervillains, For our Silver Medal of Evil, we have the AVL's 80s child star, Bratt was willing to take 80s themed supervillain. He's just as obnoxious grander scale and is also just more successful Bratt manages to be a threat throughout cleverness and his large array of gadgets. Bratt also terrorizes Hollywood using a it up into outer space. Bratt is selfish, character in the Despicable Me franchise Getting our Gold Medal of Evil is the For a time, she was the world's number 1 villain. Scarlett is ambitious, clever, cruel and VERY and Stuart hostage and threatened to kill crown. Scarlet can also be somewhat technically did what she asked of them, despite success, she still wanted to torture and kill them her glory. Although it wasn't too surprising, we off the face of the Earth" if they did anything affection towards the Minions was conditional, is They seem like a happy couple on the surface, but it's really hard to say how she would take a Beyond Scarlet's low morality and vindictive for being the most successful out of all the she couldn't defeat the Minions in the end, in the meantime, not to mention all the other For all these reasons, she more than earned But let us know in the comment and tell us what we should cover next. Remember to Evil playlist, where we break down the morality shows and movies. But most