Ah Chu did a great job and didn't even kill her. Waiting to see if Princess Zama will let her go. Princess has rested well. If you still feel tired, then don't compete . You are more afraid of being a mean person than me. There is no better way to serve as a slave than in archery. Each person shoots three arrows at each other. Whoever hits the arrow will lose. Princess, you are such a delicate body, how can you be injured? You should shoot at the target. What's the point of shooting at the target? We, the Batu family, are the best at it. It's all about archery. I don't believe that I can't win against a slave . If you win, where will he go? No matter where he goes, he will be dead. But there are nine people to support us. We are afraid that a Yan Xun coward will follow you. Give it to me, give it to you, give it to me today, I will die with you. Mr. Zhao wanted to leave as soon as he came here. What Yan Xun has given you today will be repaid in full in the future. One day, I will make you regret living in this world. You look exactly like you now. Your sister, your Yan family, was really carved out of the same mold. I still remember her red eyes. She was shot from behind by an arrow from me and fell to her death. Yan Xun and Yan Bei are dead . The whole clan was beheaded like a dog , and you are left to linger on . Do you dare to kill me ? You kill me. You are just bluffing. As long as you kill me, the hunting ceremony will be terminated, and we, the Zhao clan, will not do it. Let me go. Don't you like that bitch very much? When the time comes, you can only take her to the underworld to reunite with your family. It's time for you to go and apologize to them. Ah Chu, let's go first. Be careful on the way . Who are you bandits and thieves ? You are from Wei Guang. I tell you that my father is Liu Yi, the king of the southwest. If you dare to hurt me, you will not be as good as you. Where are you going to run ? Who are you? Don't kill me. Don't kill me. The emperor rules the world with words. In chaos, the military commanders and generals are the leaders of the country. The commanders and generals of the country are the mainstay of the country . So I promote talents regardless of their origins. I have a daughter, Chu Qiao, who is versatile in both civil and military affairs. She has both talents and virtues . She is loyal to the king and sincere. I can imitate Mulan. I have given you the honor of being the Archery Instructor of the Valiant Cavalry Camp. I hope you will be wrapped up in horse leather , and you will forget your own interests and live up to my high expectations. Please let me draw the bow accurately, draw the bow accurately, and be steady on the road. Maintain balance, maintain a certain degree of stability, and shoot decisively . Don't be distracted. Don't hesitate to aim for the first time . The body technique must be correct and the force must be straight. The bow must be drilled flat to obtain the magic bow. Everything will come true. I will give you a demonstration. Good, good, great . General Yuwen. General Yuwen. Who shot this arrow? It's a subordinate. Good, good. General Yuwen is good . Great , your archery skills are not bad. The general's archery skills are even more superb. Of course I know that He Xiao has gone to the Ministry of War. Today is the day for distribution. I see that your bows are getting old . I will go to Quanren later to get my warrant . Let her get some new bows. Coach Chu, go quickly. Yes, go quickly. Sister Fu, is there someone in front of me? Male or female? Four males and one female. Is that girl good-looking ? How old is she? It 's okay, isn't it ? She's not better looking than me. Where can I compare with Sister E, Sister Fu, Sister Qing, and they are even more incomparable . I tell you, the master said that the one who can make you Lu Yi say these words must be a stunningly beautiful man. Let the woman stay. The prince wants to ask questions . Did you hear what my sister Fu said? Men, let's go. Women, please stay. Can't you hear what I say? You idiots , I see you don't have a royal card around your waist. It means you are not a noble. A Han woman can get this kind of treatment. You guys should go quickly. Where did the yellow-haired girl come from ? What's so great about this thing that doesn't know how to live or die ? It 's just a soldier. Come on, come on, you woman, you are such a cruel woman, Chu Qiao, what are you doing ? Prince , Prince, Prince, Prince, Prince, are you okay? Prince, Prince, His Royal Highness, my master, Yu. If you are not strict , I will offend you. I say you are crazy. You dare to beat the prince. It is so audacious. This time she has caused a big disaster. Your Highness, Prince Xiang, wants to punish her severely. His Highness deliberately retested the following and committed S. You guys said enough, but you didn't say enough. Just get out of here. You can't be rude to His Highness. But we won't let this matter go . We will definitely send envoys to Chang'an to consult on the matter. As for this girl, if Your Highness refuses to hand over, there is nothing we can do. So please do it first. We are keeping our custody in the future and we will teach the prince . The prince, be careful, slow down, and protect the prince. If anything goes wrong again, military law will deal with it. Your Highness , General Nuo , did not know that he had caused a big disaster. Please punish him. Chu Qiao knew that he had committed a huge disaster and was unable to recover. God , one person does the work and one person does not want to bring trouble to the generals and sergeants. Well done , well done. Xiao Ce, this kid should have dealt with him a long time ago. Why? The prince of Liang is like a girl who wears red and green all day long . It makes me sick to see him. Well done, someone should kill the little girl. If someone wants to deal with you, you have to ask us first. Your Highness, although those who don't know are not guilty. But after all, I am still the crown prince. Besides, he is here to get married. I should also apologize. Did you hit him? Where did you hit him? Why didn't I see you? Did you see it? No , didn't you see ? But you girl is stupid enough . If you want to beat him , you should find a place where no one is around before you attack him. Yes, Your Highness has already studied it with us. As soon as this kid goes on the road, we will put a sack on the place where he is least and beat him to vent his anger. &quot; I didn't expect that, actually, we You 've been there a long time ago. I just didn't show up. Don't worry. Since you are mine now and you are here to protect my subordinates , I will never let you be wronged. Give me my order . No one can leave the Xiaoqi camp today. If the news leaks out, don't blame me. How about the ruthlessness of my subordinates ? Doesn't it smell good? Let's see if what I'm wearing today is quite high-end. It's a good house. She hasn't come yet. Why don't you tell her? She's almost there. I'm in a humble position. The two highnesses are so rude. You don't know them. Madam, Madam , you boldly let go of your hands without looking where this place is . What are you calling? Do you know who she is? She is the bodyguard appointed by this prince. Have you been beaten enough? I am very satisfied with her. Girl, what is your name? Please be my personal bodyguard. Your Highness, Chu Qiao, may have offended you that day. I ask you , sir, not to remember the faults of others but not to blame. It turns out that your name is Chu Qiao. How about I call you Qiaoer? Or Xiao Qiao? Chu Qiao has a low status and a low name. It's not enough for Your Highness. I'd better call you Qiao Qiao. It's more cordial. Your Highness, what do you want to do ? Why don't you just tell me who else in your family has any parents ? Are there any brothers or sisters? In what month were you born? How old are you this year? I'm July. I am twenty-one this year and have reached the age of marriage. Your Highness , if it was because of Chu Qiao's offense to His Highness that day that you acted like this today, then Chu Qiao would be willing to be punished . Where is your ancestral home? I see how you look. She has such beautiful skin and is so supple. She doesn't look like someone from Wei, but looks like our woman from Daliang . Your Highness, can we talk normally ? You are so cute when you are angry . I am so discerning. Your Highness , what do you like in me? All of you. I like everything , or maybe you want to take advantage of me. If you want to kill me , there are many reasons. I am just a small Xiaoqi camp archery instructor with no use value. Jojo, I fell in love with you at first sight. You misunderstood me like this. I will be sad, Qiao Qiao. My hands are cold. Can you warm me up? Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, Your Highness, are you okay? Your Highness, I 'm okay , come, come, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay , it's okay, it's okay, it's so stable, Prince Edward. A Chu is so awesome to be able to fly out. Go, Qiao Qiao, you are too cruel to treat the person you want to protect. Men and women are different. Your Highness, please respect yourself. Qiao Qiao, please help me apply the medicine. I am doing this for your own good . What do you think? If it were someone else. You found out that I was injured. You must be involved. My medicine is very effective in reducing swelling and swelling. You must have thought about it. You really want me to apply the medicine for you. You deserve to be comfortable and comfortable. You are pretending to be crazy and acting stupid to protect yourself with a cynical face. You guessed it right . In fact, I am wise, powerful and full of knowledge. How can you worship me? What should I say? If people often pretend to be stupid for a long time , they will become real fools. Qiaoqiao woman, it is better to be gentle and cute. Why are you always so aggressive ? I already have a lot of control over myself, so what if I don't ? You can try to see if the poison on Feng Liu's arrow is your fault. I'll find someone to harm myself. Qiao Qiao, you don't have to do this if you want to hug me. Shut up, get up and run in front of Qiao Qiao. There are also people. What should I do? Be careful . Qiao Qiao is fine. They are shooting arrows from above . Jump up and jump down . It is impossible to jump. You will drown. Why are you so stupid? I don't know if I am dead . Is it best for you? Why is this so powerful? The guards at the city gate discovered that Prince Yanpao had gone out in disguise and took a few personal guards with him. We followed your order and did not stop him from going anywhere. He hurried to the south of Xiaoguan. It was the afternoon when Prince Daliang left the city, Coach Chu. Following him personally is also the direction of Xiaoguan. Gather all the moon guards on Yue Qi. Be careful not to alert the other generals of the Xiaoqi camp. Immediately send me to the south of Xiaoguan to recover Yan Pao. Qiao Qiao, wake up. Qiao Qiao finally doesn't have that unpleasant fragrance. These clothes have been soaked in water for a long time. They are old and ugly. Just cover them for a while . Don't move. Don't move. Your injury is not healed yet. Don't move. It must be very painful, right? Qiao Qiao, right? What should we do now? If not, sit down and rest. Qiao Qiao, who do you think those people who were chasing us just now are? I don't know. That's what I think. From inside Daliang, if I die, the position of the crown prince will be vacant, and then my brother will be expected to succeed . The person in Chang'an City who wants me to die the most is your master Yanpao. If I die, the city of Chang'an will be in chaos. When Da Wei and Daliang meet at war, Emperor Wei will definitely be unable to move his hand against Yan Pao. By then, Yan Pao will be invincible. But I see you are so desperate to save me. I don't think that's the case, right? You'd better shut up for talking so much nonsense. You won't be afraid that I'll kill you and save you from holding you back. Qiao Qiao, what I like most about you is that you are smart and kind. You are such a good woman. Are you a little thirsty? Why don't I go find you some water? By the way, are you hungry too? How about I go get it for you again? Qiao Qiao, what's wrong with you ? Your wound is bleeding. What should I do ? Kill him and go quickly . I 'm going now . Okay, I'll kill him . Don't come over. Did you hear Qiao Qiao? It's too dangerous here . Let's hide . Come on, I'll help you up . Slow down. Yan Pao disobeyed the imperial edict and pointed directly at Xiao Guan. I'm worried that something will happen to Xing'er. Can the young master get down from here ? Save the time of half a stick of incense, but the cliff is dangerous . We can't waste a moment. Sit down slowly. Come here, Qiao Qiao. Slow down. What 's wrong? The wound hurts again. Are there any herbs over there ? Help me pick some. Come here. Good Qiao Qiao. You can't bear it anymore. What should I do if there is a fight ? I think we can kill them together. What do you think? The first is that I am not us. The second is that there are more than a dozen enemies and I only have one. How many do you think I can kill with my current appearance? Don't blame me for not reminding me. When you have no way to retreat, I am willing to hand you over to find a way out for myself . Then , Qiaoqiao, I will lead the enemy away and you can run away with all your strength, okay ? This is for you . I don't know martial arts. This is what my father gave me. As soon as I turn my secret weapon of self-defense, fifty needles will fly out. Each needle is highly poisonous and will kill you if you keep it. It can save your life at the critical moment. Did you suddenly find yourself falling in love with me? It's okay. Don't worry. Wait until we get back to Chang'an. You'll have a chance. They're coming . I'll lure them away. Be careful. It's okay. I'm here. Why are you here ? Prince Daliang, or should I kill you? How long have you been here since you looked like this? I'm sleeping here like a pig and I'm drinking water. Don't get involved in my affairs . It has nothing to do with you . What do you do ? Don't you like to owe people the most favors? I just let you owe me a big favor and I will never pay you back in my lifetime. Put me down, let me go . Why are you out of the city? Then let's not go back. No, you are injured. Yu Wenyue's help has arrived too late . Your Highness is frightened. Why did you come? Didn't you see that group of enemies just now scared me to death? If I hadn't known how to order them myself. I 've survived nine deaths in martial arts and am as good as ten. Do you know who those people are today ? I don't know. This is what I just picked up in the fight. It should be an address. Maybe someone will find it. Master, what happened today is a bit weird, more than weird. I'm afraid we are being taken advantage of . What should we do ? Xiao Ce wants to use our hands to kill all his political opponents in the country . I also want to meet the Daliang spy who was lurking in Chang'an for a while . If you have the guts, kill me and let me out. I will count to three. You will fall. You will appear to be floating in the Zixia Lake outside Jiankang City. Your feelings will disappear. Your body and soul will both disappear. Leave it to me , Taoye, what's wrong , Lord , I seem to be distracted , Taoye , I trust you just like I trust myself. Thank you, Lord, for our Secret Palace personnel lurking in Chang'an City. Please recite the list again and install Li Yu, the shopkeeper of Shuanglin Inn on Shangmen Street. Wu Fangkun stood still and moved. The hand girl has really good eyesight. This is a bag made from natural raw materials according to the unique secret recipe passed down by history. After you use it, it will be as beautiful as a fairy, like a flower or a jade. Please send it to you soon. Please tell me that it is still available in Chang'an. The contacted spies put down everything in their hands and left Chang'an through their own escape channels as quickly as possible. However, we and Yan Pao have made an agreement that it will be difficult for him to escape Chang'an without us. Someone will continue to do the soul-moving technique for us . She 's overbearing. She's already a little delirious. I'll let her rest later and then continue to interrogate her. Do you want my subordinates to catch all the fish that slipped through the net ? All those who should have escaped have escaped. If we catch them now, there will be no results. What should we do? They have been in business for many years. The industrial store channel is the top priority. Through this line, we can lurk them in the All the spies in Da Liang in the Wei Dynasty have found Xiao Ce for me. If he dares to lend me my hand to do something for him , I will break his bones to see if he will have a long memory in the future. There is also what Taoye Ji said about the Prince of Yan. Remember not to alert others. Is there any definite news about the presence of Crown Prince Nuoyan ? Xiao Ce, please come to visit me and tell me your intention . What a welcome remark. Considering what you did today and my current mood, I am very polite that I didn't draw a knife on you . Picture of the garrison outside Chang'an City, don't look at me like that , Prince Yan, whether it's the secret palace or me, we are all from Daliang , and our purpose is the same. Emperor Wei brutally tortured Zhongliang. I can't bear to see such an upright person like this prince. Justice must be served. Zhengyi helped Prince Yan return to Yanbei safely. He wanted to see me raise the banner of rebellion and fight to the death with Emperor Wei so that you could benefit from it. Not to mention it so directly. The people in the secret palace had gone back in advance . I was responsible for this. But before The plan between them and you didn't tell me that they were walking too fast and were caught by Yu Wenyue if they were walking slowly. But you can rest assured that this garrison map is absolutely true and reliable. The terrain from Chang'an to Yanbei and the number of troops garrisoned in each vassal area. The generals and previous combat experiences are all written in great detail. This prince spent half a year on the road, and he was not really eating, drinking, and having fun. Now that I have finished talking, it is late at night. I would like to wish Prince Yan the next time. I will never do it. Let you go, what are you talking about? You know what I'm talking about. Ah Chu, get well soon. In a few days, everything here will probably be wiped out. It's better to burn the whole of Chang'an. He, Yan Pao, has the talent. Prince Yan Pao is right. Is your attitude here because of Taoye Ji ? He just thinks that I took Qiao Qiao into danger and caused her to be injured. That's good. I originally wanted Qiao Qiao to be injured in Xiao Yu's hands and take the opportunity to provoke a conflict between Yan Pao and Xiao Yu. Who knew that Yuwen Yue would be brought in to snatch this big deal and sweep away all Xiao Yu 's power in Chang'an City ? This was really an unexpected surprise. But Yuwen Yue captured Tao Ye Ji , and how could Tao Ye Ji know about Yan Yan? Yanpao has prepared some defenses. Yanpao doesn't know if Yuwen Yue attacks Yanpao. Will the plan be disrupted ? Maybe Yanpao will escape from Ka'an. I'm not Yanpao. Why should I help him? That's what he did. The business of rebellion itself should be planned. Zhou Liu has a backup plan. If he can't even get out of Chang'an City , even if he returns to Yanbei, he still won't be able to fight others. If this is the case, it is better to die in Chang'an. It's just a pity. Qiao Qiao Achu, wake up and the wound is still there. Does it hurt? Does it hurt? How can it not hurt when you are so seriously injured ? You are too reckless. You are worried about people outside Chang'an city, so I want to take this opportunity. Xiao Ce came when you were asleep. Why did he come to send Chang'an to Yanbei? I knew from the whole army garrison map that he was not an ordinary character . Sure enough, but this prince was naughty by nature. I wasn't sure if the things he gave him were reliable. I'm afraid it was a good precaution. He should stay in Chang'an for a short time. His purpose was achieved. Based on his character, it was time to leave. Does the wound hurt again? I just think that since you have ventured out of the city, why not take the opportunity to escape. You are seriously injured and I have to bring you back for treatment. It's me, I'm dragging you down. Yu Wenyue has already taken us away. Yan Xun, I have something to think about. Let me discuss something with you. What are you going to do with the Xiuli Army ? They opened the gates of Hongchuan and Beishuo for Zhao Dongting. Let me think about it again. Ah Chu, you must be hungry. Why don't we meet another day? Let me go and get you something to eat first. The young master has verified that most of what Momoha-hime said is true . There is no definite evidence , but I think most of them are officials below the sixth rank. They usually seem to be It's inconspicuous , but it will become a big mess if it spreads across the government and the public. If you want to control them, do you want to inform the Chang'an government? We don't need to use our own people to ensure that they ca n't leave the house on the princess's wedding day. But Deng Jia, the guard of the east gate, needs to control them first. On your birthday, the princess brought a jar of Yupu wine from the palace. She said it was the only remaining jar. At that time, everyone thought it was very precious. But recently, I got another jar. It can be seen that the world is also like this. At that time, you were very sure of something. In the end, it may not necessarily be right or wrong. It depends on who looks at the merits of the matter. You are not the only one who has the final say. Are you really planning to marry Chun'er? Of course, I am particularly curious about what kind of betrothal gift you have prepared. I am so curious. Go yourself. I was checking . At the same time, I also found a particularly interesting list. Cui Jia, a member of the Ministry of Works, will be the supervisor . The recent work details of the Ministry of Industry and General Supervisor I found that the Longsheng Canal, Wei Canal, and canals have all been dredged recently. It is Cui Jia who is responsible for presiding over it. He is assisted by Pei Mingshu. It is the rainy season recently. The water level has risen. You have gone through all the trouble. Spent all the money It was precisely these two people who arranged it. Are you planning to send a dragon into the city to congratulate you on your wedding day ? Don't you, Mr. Yuwen, know what I want to do ? There are 80,000 households in Chang'an, plus more than 500,000 troops stationed there. You Do you really plan to let more than 500,000 people bury you for your own selfish reasons ? Then escape from Chang'an through the East controlled by Deng Jia. Back then, Zhao Dongting led 50,000 forbidden troops to surprise attack on my father's land in Yanbei, Beishuo and Hongchuan. The two cities were burned down. Two hundred thousand soldiers and civilians were buried in the sea of fire for three days and three nights . None of them were innocent. You are also a survivor . You should know better than anyone the pain of losing a loved one . However, what you did today has nothing to do with Zhao Dongting. What's the difference ? Of course there is a difference. He Zhao Dongting killed the people Tu Zhongliang, but I was just repaying him in his own way. It's just and fair. If you do these things, will it make you feel at ease? Some things may not make you happy if you do them, but if you don't do them, you will feel at ease . You will definitely not be happy. You can't just be happy when you live in the world. You probably won't understand. I won't let you have it. If you think about it, you can come to me at any time. Other than that , don't even think about other things . In the world's battles, everyone has his own merit. If you want to stop me, you can just come over here. Do you know these things you did ?