I love that the city is so It's almost overflowing. There's action, there's there's noise. Mexico City is a three it. It's a cliche for New York never sleeps, but Mexico I feel that I'm constantly learning the language, living. I think I have ultimately dream outside the U.S. I think that in Mexico you For me that is the Just to be you, just to Many Americans are chase after this dream. In the span of the last population increased Compare that to New York Mexico City is currently America, home to over 9 greater area population With the rise of remote many Americans had the . In 2022, more Americans those from any other just over 30,000 renewed residency visas double the number of Many digital nomads come the real number of people even temporarily, is It is impossible to know currently living in the weather, proximity to and affordable prices, an remote workers are This is Kyla, one of the Mexico City home. She moved here So I fell in love with wanted to live here for And then I met my Mexican Sin hormonas, hormone I grew up here, and I changing. I like diverse city. I feel like there's more Despite the digital nomad Americans taking a settling in to create a term. This is a city of 20 it feels like a small living here is how it is to know your There's always been living in Mexico. The assimilation. So, are we Are we making local effort to be part of the So if you're going to to be here. It is hard to living outside of my But I feel like the community and the friends it. Mexico City, here for many come to meet, work and This is Guillermo, a much of his life in the city. These neighborhoods are gentrification in Mexico So at the moment we're neighborhood and we're Norte. This is Leticia, a local urban communities. This neighborhood, and the concentration of coming to live or permanent, they usually don't go out that So this sometimes can be Disneyland. So Roma and Condesa, t make fun and they're to go to those saying like, oh, now the The digging continues. The death toll rises. More than 250 buildings reduced to rubble. When the pandemic hit in borders open to American This allowed remote to enter the country for up to six months. Americans can also apply visa that allows them to country for up to four The amount of peace and life, I would not, I world. Not more money, None of those things. Adalia first lived in by 2020 she decided to Since moving abroad, the changed the most is how I think about leisure. Here in Mexico City, laid back than in the I am no longer in a rush Life is so much less concern or fear for what what might happen. And it's more about going things as they come, and the moment. She was a public school nearly 20 years, teaching and history. The American Dream is a I had the house, the I did all of that. But even achieving those like it wasn't enough. I was cratering under the expectations that were on I wanted to live a life fear of being bankrupted Here in Mexico, I worry not a factor of I have don't. It is more of the that I've got more U.S. - if things were to Across Mexico, there is inequality. In Mexico City, the top times more than the The top 10% of households make, on average, about . While the average salary $20,000. Compare that to area, where the average a year. I try to be mindful of how speaking, because I am what wages are here. Sometimes gringos, we come it's so cheap or it's so maybe it is affordable dollar, but to Mexicans The strength of the dollar helps Americans achieve they've been searching If you see at the back and just people working It's a weird dynamic. Like since we've been to the counter only If you go out there, that are speaking see again, you know, counter, doing all the meals and serving the But for Black Americans, affords a deeper sense of I've gained a lot of I don't - I don't fear However, Mexico suffers crime, and homicide rates those in the U.S. Additionally, it's crimes are never Even though there is have their own problems i . Here, I feel more that the history of the steeped in negativity and Seeing a person publicly over and over again while really changed my of a lot of people. It feels weird to say that City than I do in the is a hard place to live. Tiara moved to Mexico City worker. I loved it so much here got residency. After about nine months of was laid off from her I decided to finally take restaurant. Thank you for coming out t uneteenth celebration. You want a copy? Tiara opened a soul food 2023. So Black, Mexican and you put that all together So everybody's happy. Some aren't because of gentrification brings. But I think it's great. Like this place is great. The community is great. The food is amazing. How are you? We use this bell when we or sell a house. And this and me. This is going to us. This is also Leticia, a who sees newcomers with opportunity. Everybody wants to move I think that is very good better salary here. I think there is a good So I told the locals, why English? Hey, good morning lady, h You just see the good side experience here. Okay, this apartment is This is the living and And it's in Colonia I think there is a good This is the bedroom. And here is the bathroom. That's a lot of light. And you have everything $500 per month, plus light. The average cost of a city is about $880 a This is in stark contrast In LA, the average rent In New York, it has However, since 2020, rent neighborhoods in Mexico Additionally, over 50% of survey reported facing or mortgage in the city. I think that the see that a lot of they need to put the they will be affordable If you just want to push going to be really sad. I mean, it's going to be being somewhere else. It's not going to be Basically, what happens is effect, where, you know, country come and areas or the nicer parts are forced to go out. I myself have been displacing someone else. And I think that And we shouldn't be living in precarious of the city. Part of the problem is the for housing. issue of short term housing inventory for This is not just happening across the globe. From 2019 through August in Mexico City increased In 2022, the Mexico City Airbnb to promote the working hub. In a a representative from committed to helping destinations and helping Airbnb also collects and says it continually the platform's activities Airbnb's partnership with for many. The short-term rentals are City, and just like in hurts the social fabric a Why is it that it's Barcelona, in Berlin, problem, and then in complete opposite. I think it's fantastic then tourism is But when people are visa and overstaying and, with the locals, not and not understanding in political, economical it's difficult. There are also reports of of their homes, so units for the short-term In September 2023, bill in Mexican Congress nomads after their 20th it remains just a And then peanut butter. There's some spoons. Let's scrape it out. Like if you say my country you'd say his country is Okay. I decided to live in Really? Because of love. This is Caitlin. She was a paralegal in moving to Mexico City in I live in Mexico City with husband and my binational nine-years-old. Mexico culture. I value that my with that sort of we, there's an us, and I Caitlin and her husband in pesos. When I moved to Mexico for a work visa, I just program and it turned out dance performance degree, serendipity of my She works as a other performing arts I'm sure that I would to pursue this thing that little girl, and that I talked myself out of. But I'm just so grateful this one precious life. In response to the tension there is a consensus on impact. Meet your neighbors. Get dirty. Get in the trenches. Let yourself become a because there's so many our minds that can be cultural richness of this experience if we don't being someone from a having those dollars that things. One of the great things people are very, very And the more Spanish I up, the more friendly things get. People will always be on What we need to understand migrating, they're only quality of life. We're all humans, and able to afford our basic to have rest time. As for these Americans, what they've been looking I'm deeply, deeply happy, this strange, have stumbled upon. And the people who have community with me. Now I'm a permanent as long as I want. And that's the dream. I'm I don't think I will ever There's so much to my enriches my experience of that I wouldn't want to It's just a dream that I just to be treated like treated fairly, equally And Mexico City is a to achieve that. And I'm rooting for the But as far as going back, move back home. I didn't know that I to achieve what I have. I'll stay in Mexico for me. I have always seen myself intention was to move here. Mexico City is I expect to be here My dream life is almost consider to be the dream It's not about about having control over That is my dream life.