This is the most popular sports FIFA has sold more copies than When you think about football, you think people spend far more time playing On any given Sunday, 200 million games That's a lot of time. And means a two. Electronic Arts. One of the largest made approx 20 billion dollars just with And FIFA. The governing body of football, the world - who made 150 million dollars per It sounds perfect. Fans are united in their love Until EA decided to kill the FIFA version looks like this. FIFA - But why change the name of your most successful less catchy. That would be like re-naming More importantly, the FIFA name is stopping a rival from snapping up the At first sight, it looks like EA made a it may have pulled off one of the best Welcome to Athletic Interest, this The history of EA's FIFA begins The original name for the game EA changed it to FIFA after making a licensing Although the bosses at EA were never fully into a video game. They gave the project to a The team worked 16-hour shifts to bring the with exhaustion. His child even called the The original game was nothing like modern FIFA. 2D players with no distinguishable It did, however, have no competitors and Within four weeks of its launch, FIFA International Soccer was the The developers argue that this was because gave the game authenticity. An argument EA's success spawned competitors. Which would later become Pro Evolution Soccer. The early 2000s was dominated by an FIFA became known for its fun gameplay. For many, PES was the better it would have been the topic of this video. But As graphics improved, gamers started to look for this meant playing with your favourite player in While one had spent time the other had closed licensing deals for one game you could play with Manchester These licensing agreements created a huge If you want to create your own football logos of the clubs and the names of the first. And usually, this permission Not only did EA make these agreements with some deals were exclusive. So PES and copy. And had to come up with the most Bayern was simply called 'Rekordmeister'. And Ajax 'Museumplein' - after Don't forget legendary players EA's advantage became even clearer with to sell virtual player cards - a bit unlocked those players in the game. This aspects of FIFA. And contributes PES was slow to replicate this. Even then, who wants to buy virtual cards As FIFA grew, PES slowly died. PES 15 couldn't even hit 10% of that. So you could argue that FIFA's success is all down to authenticity. And a big But then why break-up? deal with FIFA was reportedly very cheap. biggest team sports event in the world FIFA has re-negotiated its agreement several times. EA was paying 150 million Each time EA paid because it understood front. It added authenticity. EA has long inside the game. Adding the official Also important: brand continuity. FIFA of gamer vocabulary. Parents knew what So FIFA saw dollar signs. And decided to FIFA assumed that EA would at all costs. But this strategy backfired badly. There had long been rumours that EA was the agreement. EA wanted to introduce new features they wanted to protect their brand. EA was keen And what kind of Athletic be without Nike and Adidas playing their part?! EA had long wanted to partner with Nike but deal with Adidas. Signing with Nike was one FIFA pushed and EA jumped. A risky move. Gianni Infantino was quick to promise to A declaration of war to EA. the giants: the world's most influential sports And FIFA looked like the favorite. They are a about that. They control the most popular sport that sport and their bosses regularly meet But while FIFA was obsessed it forgot where the true value of In EA's agreement with FIFA it didn't actually get right to use player likenesses, team names, badges And this is where EA hit FIFA hard. EA has an army of lawyers that clubs, agents and player unions Often players don't even realise that the game. Zlatan Ibrahimovich once be in FIFA. EA was quick to remind him which includes a clause allowing the Any player or team that joins signs away its rights to be included in EA games. EA has built a complex web of licenses for someone else to replicate. In some Even when PES was able to make agreements with meant that only a few teams from each league were That's exactly why EA isn't scared if someone else picks up the FIFA name. They won't have EA's web of licenses also attracts new partners this is called the network effect. The more the product has for each user. And the less sense Clubs and leagues bundle their gaming entire thing exclusively to EA. This ensures And by now there is another thing. They also in the EA game because it's the most popular. sponsors to hundreds of millions of people more minutes playing virtual football looking at EA probably wouldn't have the biggest FIFA name. It added authenticity at But EA has outgrown FIFA. While EA Sports FC will probably never be as The licenses are what create the clubs and leagues give themselves to EA because virtuous cycle where the two sides come to FIFA may have a brand name 300 million dollars, but without those That's probably why Infantino has revised change of one number, but the sign that So what do you think? FIFA