In February 2017, concrete slabs in the releases from the floodgates, starting a chain 200,000 people downstream. The dam didn't especially for the tallest structure Oroville Dam falls under the purview of in a state with a progressive dam safety program most competent engineers in the industry. So how cracks, both figuratively and literally? Luckily, and prepared a 600 page report to try and find is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, Oroville Dam, located in northern California, at 770 feet or 235 meters high. Completed in Department of Water Resources, every part consists of an earthen embankment which forms that can be reversed to create pumped storage, and an emergency overflow spillway. The is also immense - the second biggest in the state. one of the largest water storage and delivery than 20 million people and hundreds of thousands also used to generate electricity with over also keeps a reserve volume empty during the wet store floodwaters and release them gradually over No dam is built to hold all the water that could having water overtop an unprotected embankment So, all dams need spillways to safely release reservoir once it's full. Spillways are often the and that is definitely true at Oroville. The 55 meters wide and 3,000 feet long. That's nearly control how much water is released and massive dentates, disperse the flow to reduce erosion as is capable of releasing nearly 300,000 cubic feet roughly an olympic-sized swimming pool every in conceptualizing this incredible volume. If garden hose, it would travel at 15% of the speed How's that for a flow rate equivalency? But even Large dams have to be able to withstand their design is based on a synthetic (or made which is essentially an approximation of the most sky. It usually doesn't make sense to design since such a magnitude of flooding is unlikely to Instead, many dams have a second spillway, expensive to construct - to increase their during rare but extreme events. At Oroville, the set one foot above the maximum operating the service spillway can't release water preventing the reservoir from reaching Early 2017 was one of northern California's flood events across the state. One of those storms As the reservoir filled, it became clear to to be opened to release excess inflows. they noticed an unusual flow pattern issue was worrying enough that they decided to in order to get a better look. What they saw large concrete slabs were completely missing There was a lot more inflow to the reservoir in have much time to keep the gates closed while and make repairs. They knew they would have they started opening gates incrementally to test more rain was falling upstream, contributing to faster and faster. It wasn't long before the decision: open more gates on the service spillway the reservoir rise above the untested emergency Several issues made this decision the service spillway was in bad shape, and there upstream toward the headworks which could result Also, debris from the damaged spillway raising its level and threatening to electrical transmission lines connecting the by the erosion along the service spillway. Losing would hamstring the dam's only backup for making repairing the spillway would be nearly impossible factors pointed towards closing the spillway On the other hand, the emergency spillway confident that it could safely release so much and aggressively the erosion happened on the almost certainly strip at least the top layer threatening adjacent electrical transmission and operations personnel were all hands on reviewing geologic records and original design action. Of course, this is all happening with conditions constantly changing and no one making process. Operators worked to find a sweet from the service spillway as much as possible overtopping the emergency spillway. But, every new Eventually it became clear to operators that discharges and flood the powerhouse or let the They decided to let the reservoir about four days after the damage was above the crest of the emergency spillway Almost immediately, it was clear that As it flowed across and down the natural hillside, channelize and concentrate. This quickly creating features called headcuts, which are a are vertical drops in the topography eroded by oftentimes aggressively. In this case, upstream threatening its stability. This hillside competent bedrock. It only took a modest flow true geologic conditions: the hillside was and weathered rock. If the headcuts were it would almost certainly fail, releasing would devastate downstream communities. On February 12, only about a day and half an evacuation order was issued for downstream to higher ground. At the same time, operators double the flow rate and accelerate the lowering emergency spillway crest that night, stopping the Two days later, on Valentine's Day, the evacuation return to their homes. But there was still more was in poor condition to handle additional California DWR continued discharging through the by 50 feet or 15 meters in order to create out of service for evaluation and repairs. nearly three weeks after the whole mess started, Water that started its journey as tiny and concentrated by the earth's topography and structures - had carved harrowing scars Like all major catastrophes, there were a to cause the failure of the concrete chute. geologic. Although it was areas of the spillway's foundation were not good the spillway was designed and maintained as if That mischaracterization had profound As for how the spillway damage started, the structures stay put? Mostly by being heavy. Their other forces that may cause them to move. think that adding water to the top making things more stable. And that would be true Oroville Dam service spillway chute was that it discuss in a moment. These cracks allowed water to the concrete on all sides. Here's the issue or more accurately, their weight is counteracted So, being underwater already starts to destabilize concrete still sinks underwater, right? The in place. That's true in static conditions, We talk about Bernoulli's principle a lot on this flow of water in a spillway. In this case, the it suddenly stops. Cracks and joints in a concrete protrusion into the stream redirects the flow. If happen underneath the slab. When this happens, all potential energy, in other words, pressure. When we call it the stagnation pressure. See how the the flowing water. The equation for stagnation So, if I double the speed of flow in my flume, four times the height the water rises in my tube. a lot faster than this. When this stagnation it creates an additional uplift force. If all it's going to move. That's exactly what it's just a chain reaction. More of the and more of that water can inject itself Of course, we try to design around this problem. perforated pipes to relieve the pressure of the design of these drains was a major reason for the foundation below the slabs, they reduced for the drains. The crack pattern on the chute beneath perfectly. So, in this case the drains they let out from underneath it. The chute also the foundation material below. Unfortunately those design wasn't modified when the actual foundation The root cause wasn't just a bad design, though. into the lack of recognition and failure to Large dams are regularly inspected, and their current practice in dam engineering. Put worse foundations than this. Modern spillway what happened at Oroville. Multiple layers wide. Flexible waterstops are embedded into joints Joints are also keyed so individual slabs Lateral cutoffs help resist sliding and keep Anchors add uplift resistance by holding Even the surface of the joints is offset into the high velocity flow. All these are things weren't done properly. Periodic reviews of the should have recognized the deterioration them before they could turn into such As for the emergency spillway, the a mischaracterization of the foundation material just that: intended for use only during a rare But, it's never acceptable for the structure that the residents downstream have to be able to make conservative estimates of how much engages. Predicting the amount and extent of difficult problem in civil engineering. It takes and even then, the uncertainty is still do under the severe pressure of an emergency. The to rise above the crest of the emergency through the debilitated service spillway, withstand the flows. It's a decision I think The powerhouse was further from flooding and initially thought, and they eventually ramped after realizing the magnitude of the But, it's difficult to pass blame too strongly. of the emergency did not have the benefit small but consequential decisions made over led to the initial failure, not to mention practice's ability to shine a light down The forensic team's report outlines many lessons dam and the engineering community at large, more detail. But, I think the most important The people downstream of Oroville Dam, probably chose their home or workplace without a failure and breach. We rarely have the luxury to means, whether they realized it or not, they and regulators in charge of that dam to keep them that trust was broken. It's a good reminder The repairs and rebuilding of the spillways at Maybe I'll cover that in a future video. Thank