&quot;Liberty Engine&quot; Single-phase 4.0 - Development of a self-sustaining electrical generator. We start by disassembling the truck alternator. We remove the carbon brushes and the regulator. We don't need this. We dismantle the pulley. We don't need it either. We also do not need the current rectifier. We extract the coil... And now we extract the rotor. We have to cut these rotor pieces. But first we remove this bearing. We also don't need the rotor brush collector. We mark with the grinder where we have to cut. And we cut all these rotor pieces. We also remove the copper winding. Now we turn the rotor. This piece is made of a special alloy of silver and aluminum. We fixed this special piece on the rotor. It fits perfectly. Now we must glue these magnets inside the slots. The external face of these magnets are North polarity. And now we are going to glue these magnets that have South polarity. It should stay like this. Now we cut this plastic boat. We also need a CD. We must cut it like this. And we introduce it here. We glue the CD around with hot glue. Now we also glue the piece of plastic boat. We prepare the Epoxy Resin mixture. We fill all the gaps with Epoxy Resin. 24 hours later... We remove the plastic around it, and we remove the CD. It has been very compact. We bend these fins a little. And we turn the rotor again to remove all the plastic. We have to put these fins back the way they were. Now we will leave the rotor at its correct size and perfectly balanced. It should stay like this. We must clean all the parts of the alternator very well. Now we are going to make the supports for the alternator and the engine. This is the engine mount. And this is the alternator bracket. Let's assemble our modified alternator. Now we put these washers on the shaft. And we put this pulley. In the description of the video you have a purchase link. Now we are going to solder the wires onto the coils. We will use this cable to join one of the ends of the three coils. This way they will remain in Star Connection. On each cable we put a heat shrink tube to electrically isolate the contacts. It should stay like this. Now we solder these three wires to the other end of each coil. We also put heat shrink tubing on these connections. We fix all the cables with zip ties. We have joined these ends of the coils. And these three wires are soldered to the other end of each coil. Through these cables we will obtain electricity. We put electrical terminals on each wire. We are going to use this electric motor. It is a 0.37kw three-phase motor. We are going to connect this 20mF capacitor to convert it into a 220VAC single-phase motor. Now we connect this cable with a Schuko plug. It should be connected like this. Now we will put it into operation to verify that it works well. It works perfectly, and the direction of rotation is correct. On this wooden base we will assemble all the elements. We put four rubber feet to avoid vibrations. Now we put the engine support. We also put the support for our alternator. We fix the engine. We have to put this part that we have manufactured in our alternator. We have to heat it so that it expands and enters the shaft. We also put this bolt. We put these washers here. Now we put this piece that we have manufactured. This part is part of the manual starter. We put it here. Now we put this piece. This is the manual starter that we are going to install. We set it here. It has turned out perfectly. Now we put the modified alternator on the bracket. This is the pulley for the motor. It is the same as the alternator. We put it here. And we check that it is well aligned with the other pulley. This is the transmission belt. We place it like this. Now let's check the voltage generated by the modified alternator with a voltmeter. We are going to measure the voltage between 2 phases. When pulling the starter cord we see that there is 230V. Very good! Now we are going to dismantle these plug sockets. We must screw them into these holes. Now we mark where these holes need to be made. These holes are used to insert the screws that close the socket bases. Now we screw the socket bases back onto the wood. And we close the two parts. This new design seems very nice to me. Say in the comments if you would do it differently. We are also going to fix this electrical junction box. We cut these cables like this. We put them inside the junction box... And we put electrical terminals on all the cables. Now we connect all the cables to this connection strip. We have to connect each socket outlet between the phases of the alternator. And we connect the two ground wires together. This is how the electrical connections look. Now we must connect the motor plug into this socket. Let's check if it works... IT WORKS! 10Kw of total power (5Kw in each socket). Voltage: 220vAC Start by manual pull. Perfectly balanced rotor to reduce vibrations and noise. And with rubber feet also to reduce vibrations and noise. Much quieter than its predecessor &quot;Liberty Engine 1.0&quot;. &quot;Liberty Engine&quot; 4.0 Single-phase. Try indoors. We are going to leave these two shots on the screen so you can see how it works from different angles. It does not transmit electrical current because there are no batteries hidden in the motor. We also measure the voltage with the voltmeter. There is no electric current. We turn on the switches of the socket outlets. AND WE START... Let's connect this lamp. It lights up perfectly. We're also going to hook up this angle grinder. And it also starts up without problems. This new &quot;Liberty Engine&quot; is very quiet. Let's do voltage measurements again. We have 226v at this outlet. Here we also have 226v. In this socket we also have 226v. The three phases of the generator are very balanced. Thank you to all our members! Share this video and join the energy revolution.