Victor Nee: I would like to welcome our audience series on "The American State in a Multipolar of Economy and Society at Cornell University. I am honored and enthralled by the occasion to and Director of the Center for Sustainable In the age of specialization, it is rare to and publications span a global canvas, addressing century's world economy and society. The as one of the three most influential Jeffrey Sachs is not an armchair intellectual, as the Director of the Earth Institute He has been advisor to three Secretaries-General and is the President of the U.N. Professor Sachs played a seminal role in across Eastern and Central Europe in His many publications from this period reflect from state socialism and central of the United States to build a constructive Years before this lecture series, Sachs framed development in a multipolar world. His numerous the new era of cross-cutting global networks A development economist, Sachs is the age of sustainable development in which are interconnected. His books detail why, in that local and global politics are inseparable. who speaks to us live from Jeffrey Sachs: Victor, thank lovely introduction and greetings to everybody We are getting perhaps almost an overdose of because of the COP26 climate conference that am very much hoping can align with the a cold war between the U.S. in Rome at the end of October and, of course, the end of September and the beginning of October. some positive, some showing the serious the efficacy of our international institutions. crisis. We haven't even gotten the world on a new living day-by-day, not to mention a pandemic that the whole world, I think and I hope reminds and our extreme vulnerabilities in the world environmental hazards or political instability talk - I was thinking of whether there was in recent months, almost the flippancy in China over Taiwan, for example. but it also really underpins my main point must recognize how strong our potential gains from confrontation with China now or competition a very dangerous misunderstanding in my view of so that's the main theme that I would like to some of the reasons for this but I'll start with a after all so much of the nature of the way interpreted really does fit this canonical We have this dyadic relationship, this two countries in the world, the United States let's say a hardline option, pushed by hardliners the prisoner's dilemma explains how the rational independent, non-negotiated matter in a quite miserable situation. So the story, put is that it is better for both China and the We don't have then the danger of war. We don't And so, as we see in the two-by-two matrix has a return notionally of say five. For each of being in a world of mutual de-escalation. lower right-hand corner and we'll put that as zero comes if one country de-escalates, the other then then imposing predominant power vis-a-vis de-escalate and the U.S. escalate, what's shown matrix is that the United States would get a and China would suffer an absolute loss, by And similarly, if the U.S. were to de-escalate but the United States might lose its influence in Asia the United States and a gain of 10 for China. and put this way, the problem is well known. the United States has the best advantage in certainly behooves the United States to is America's dominant strategy, no matter what China would see that its best strategy is to or escalates and as we know now for the last 70 both countries end up in the lower right hand have lost the benefits of avoiding an arms race. does, it's better for me to be tough and so both who spend a tremendous amount of time and perhaps So, as is well-known, the equilibrium, the lower right-hand corner and realists "Well, I believe in peace through strength. be tough. We must be strong. This is the only so we certainly should not, in any way, think Clearly, there is a mutual gain waiting be able to make a move from a hardline position a position of de-escalation. And, the prisoner's non-cooperative lower right-hand quadrant Now, as I think many know listening this evening, this kind of two-person interaction thousands of experiments of all sorts, in all is that the actual participants in games like their way to the cooperative outcome, while the The puzzle for economists, which after is that in practice there is a tremendous amount get that cooperation is if you have two people talk with each other before they decide on called cheap talk because it's not binding and to mutually commit and then to honor Well, there are endless theories written primed to be able to cooperate, that for various reasons. Darwin and The Descent of Man speculated on the reasons why human beings It's interesting for me also that John Nash, was not very communicative. Some people Certainly, there was a sense that a game was not a what the other country or the other partner or one's best strategy taking as given the strategy and I should say human communication, allows us to and, of course, because we are generally iterated plays, where we honor our commitments, to cooperate in the future, the potential the naive Prisoner's Dilemma framework allows. strategists in the United States and no doubt to the non-communication Prisoner's or they assume the worst of the counterparts based on perhaps the worst assumptions I think that this is an extraordinarily dangerous because it's actually possible to talk with the relentlessly daily with the counterpart and so President Biden, President Xi actually get online for my remarks. But, it really wouldn't hurt of the world to chat a little bit more than once a and I think that this kind of open communication perceived challenges that each country faces. with senior policymakers and watching their that there could be cooperative outcomes. that Chinese actions are both fixed and hostile. just a few weeks ago, there was obviously a big our climate envoy, who is a dove in these for cooperation and the more hardliners in the Council and I thought that one quote of one of story was especially pertinent. This was denying they - that is the Chinese - are going to make This is a perfectly nonsensical statement, by shows, the national interest actually depends it should not be taken as given what the national the two countries. But, if you say they're going do, you end up in the lower right-hand quadrant So, this is more or less how our national Each of our official documents, certainly during administration take the view that China and Russia antithetical to U.S. values and interests, that Indo-Pacific region and so forth. But, the idea in print, is this extraordinary idea that China perhaps different from U.S. values and interests, And, this I think is the mindset of our security increasingly clear that China and Russia want to model gaining veto authority over other nations Well, why is this point of view so prevalent these not clearly - in my opinion, it all relates to a economic recovery during the past 40 years. There economy. China is not the impoverished country modern, innovative, dynamic economy of American policymakers concerns, not China's which is a quite different matter after all. estimates of course, of the share of economy. The world economy means the sum of the notion of a world product and then looking at the back in 1820 the line at the top that you see, .6 or 60% of the world economy, that is the It may seem surprising that Asia had 60 of of the world's population. Everybody was poor roughly the shares of population of each region. the course of the next two centuries, sharply to reach the lowest point This reflects, of course, Britain's, the British increase in control over China, followed by 20th century - warlordism, civil war, and Japan's from 1820 to 1950, and China fell precipitously sophisticated society albeit an agrarian Massive domestic violence and deaths, repeated essentially the lost opportunity If you trace that blue line from 1950 to today, upward. And, in fact, China of achieved more than a 30-time increase of seven or eight years in total economic of the middle of the diagram, which starts 70 percent, is what I call the North Atlantic we became a North Atlantic world in European empires and then in the 20th century economy by far in the world, especially after became a North Atlantic economy. The industrial not only were the North Atlantic economies the and U.S. imperialism dominated the world After World War II, Europe of course lost its newly independent countries and, notably, the other countries of Asia, the notable rapid growth, Singapore, Hong Kong, and so forth, meant that consequently diminished as Asia recovered a normal place, not overtaking the per capita income a large gap in per capita income that it opened roughly around 2020 you could say that the total the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Asia alone - China, Japan, Korea, and ASEAN the East Asian world now is a larger economy than Atlantic plus Oceania. And, if we look at China that is defining the U.S. and China economy at in absolute size roughly around 2014 and now is It's important to remember, please, that China is 1.4 billion people compared to 330 million is in absolute scale a larger economy, of the per capita income level of the United and measured at market prices, even less than China is still a developing country, considerably Europe. But, being a country of 1.4 billion the single largest economy in the world measured at market prices and market exchange a very innovative economy as well. Starting China began to invest heavily graduating hundreds of thousands of PhDs each put that in a positive note, China has become a technologies. This scares the wits out of the benefit for the world because China's innovations play a significant role in human well-being. I've China's anti-malarial medicine, artemisinin, millions and millions of lives. That's an example from China with huge global benefits. Another production systems for photovoltaics, for wind and for 5G. So, many countries are the Of course, unfortunately in Washington it's not that what is supposed to be the American-led and American primacy is threatened by this but most importantly as dangerous. I should concerned about China replacing the U.S. world. I don't think there will be one and one These are the proportions of different income and the line that is upward sloping is about 1.4 billion people including Sub-Saharan India and China, but it's on a path to double in basically triple to reach more than four billion fertility patterns were to continue as projected. East Asian line, the blue line, China's on a the one child policy, but the continuation of the one child policy, and it's estimated that will be about 1 billion by the end of the 21st China probably will have a median age of perhaps tremendous social challenges. China has still massive social challenges of an aging and to me, as remotely being hegemonic in prospect. the American mindset of our policymakers is quite terrified me when I first read it six at the Kennedy School at Harvard, Robert because America seeks preeminent power over In other words, the world really is a zero-sum and it seems to me that the lesson is, if China's much poorer than the U.S., because it's a bigger Washington establishment and Blackwill reached grand strategy towards China that centers on than continuing to assist in its ascendancy. though still far behind the United States and absolute size and because of China's growing to the United States mainly in my view, because world. Or American policy makers and strategists notion of Cornell's seminar series that we have must have a world according to U.S. strategy the U.S. is in the business right now of trying One way is this recent announcement that NATO will expand its focus to counter every way. NATO in my mind is, in any event, an a country that no longer exists, the Soviet and apparently the United States views NATO's to protect American primacy in the of fundamental interest for Europe and I would say but rather the kind of logic that will of the Prisoner's Dilemma. which of our countries is actually the the more unilateral, and I would argue that the So, our attribution to China of ill is more perhaps psychological projection than The United States simply actually decades ago. It's almost a truism in the the U.S. should not accept it. Because, after all, simply the cooperation with the rest of the world. remain unsigned by the United States, while China all of these treaties on this particular page. I the United States has not. Of course, the United reckless destructive and failed military for the last 76 years, since 1945. Whereas China war at all. So, since 1980, which was the end China has not been engaged in one overseas in Central America, it went to war in the Middle the Arabian Peninsula, it went to war in Syria, spent, 800 overseas military bases, and we're the So, simply stepping back and asking, implacably opposed to cooperation with the United If one looks at it from the China perspective United States?" One would be given some pause to foreign policy over the last 40 years. Rejecting and engaging in military and covert conflicts operations - contrary to the U.N. charter. And, of the world whereas China has one overseas small in the Horn of Africa, whereas the U.S. dots China's aggression in the South China Sea, but United States surrounds China in the South are mostly defensive actions to protect its lifeline, in fact, against the potential And, the U.S. also is the unilateral sanctions against other countries, And, so my point of all of this is not express my extreme displeasure and doubt at is somehow implacably opposed to U.S. interests no evidence about it at all. four different alternative visions of our current a long time ago in the 1970s, we the economic historian Charles Kindleberger, where he argued that the Great Depression no hegemonic power in the 1930s Britain was no longer the global hegemon, because ready to accept the global responsibility as it the fact that there was no dominant global This is certainly one interpretation of our but the United States no longer is the hegemonic the world is adrift in part, because there A second view, of course, famous with Henry and we should find stability in the balance of is the Metternich-Bismarckian world the century of relative peace, although there the Napoleonic wars and the outbreak of World War a balance of power. Realism would say because a balance of power prevents aggressive I'm very skeptical of this theory, because I and with change as rapid as it is and with the I don't believe in balance of power as pessimistic about a balance of power, because I can cause a disaster like World War I or the and so the balance of power theory A third interpretation of our current at the Kennedy School of Government who analogizes Persian wars and therefore the competition in 431 BC to the outbreak of the Peloponnesian of the Peloponnesian Wars, Allison has called for war?" he asks, because the rising power of States. Well, this is also a possibility So, my modest contribution to this list cooperation theory. We have to understand in vulnerabilities - massive common vulnerabilities, but to climate change, destruction of and global financial crises and the like - to move us from the lower right-hand quadrant A lot of my work tries to emphasize and, in a way, of this cooperation which I think is pervasive. for this cooperation is what President John when he said the world is very different now, for all forms of human poverty and all forms of human We can't have a Bismarckian balance of power, history. We can't afford accidents. We can't and China. It's unthinkable, or if you're because no one will be left after the war in of foreign policy, but more than that in a this is even more the case, President Kennedy of human life also through environmental on the cooperative side is paramount in our time. with this that we need a global doctrine of collective challenges at all scales - in our in our states, in our nations, in our solve the collective action problems at the lowest climate change needs to be solved globally and global scale. And once we recognize the crucial of various naive ideas, either a naive nationalism problems at different levels by virtue of the In terms of critical areas for global cooperation, human assault, resisting spiraling inequality, mass urbanization and aging, and, of course, global cooperation. These sustainable development for their achievement and avoiding a new I believe that our paramount foreign policy making the U.N. system more effective than it is, but it especially requires the cooperation of global shared values. And, I will stop Victor Nee: Thank you very much for this extremely a new cold war and for global cooperation. We at 6:00 pm and we have now about seven minutes. been a significant centralization of power we are seeing polarization in the among Western nations. How do these trends Jeffrey Sachs: That's a really superb question. not inevitable and in part are, let's Part of the more centralization of power in States or the West or NATO undermine Chinese interest of Chinese statecraft. So, when the relations of China on issues like Hong Kong or extraordinarily defensive response, saying those Taiwan, this really has become very dangerous, even leading President Biden to, I don't know but he invented a new doctrine a couple of weeks Taiwan against Chinese aggression, which This is a complicated topic but just to say is affected by the geopolitical environment. The matter. They're not caused by the outside world foreign policy actions in in response to domestic well it's a long, complicated subject, but I changes of the U.S. economy to a more service-based economy over the last 50 years that inequality in the United States and that has not So, we are coming apart at the seams, but perhaps most importantly across an educational us, not so much of what China might do to take just our own internal divisions are so serious now internally irrespective of the international has suffered now more than 760,000 deaths from deaths, but to my mind, a sign of the disarray international scene other than a virus that that own internal divisions, which are consequently Victor Nee: Thank you. We have time, And, that question is, "The demonization How can we prevent policy makers Jeffrey Sachs: I think that demonization is the media, much less other much less reputable in the U.S. media that China is an enemy. Just that China is trying to design a world that from a substantive point of view, the right is to try to see the world from the perspective of in my remarks to understand China's perspective China's perspective from the perspective of case, in my view, China is far less of a threat And, therefore demonization So, how do we change this in the U.S.? I It is our job to think as clearly as possible, work programs with Chinese scholar, with create many of the sinews of cooperation. I am my colleagues on joint research projects and pre-COVID typically two or three times a year connections that I think are extremely important, a mindless mindset and that I think is our or even viewing this as maybe silly. The situation aggression but because of a mindset and this I I don't want Taiwan to be a flashpoint. I want to I don't want to hear the President war in Taiwan and what the United States would do. and provocative and especially understanding as it was in the 19th and 20th centuries and on these issues I think can take us quite far Victor Nee: Well, thank you very much, and we've well taken. The Republic of China has in its and the People's Republic of China has it in its And the United States in recognizing that is also the position of the United basic agreement on the issue that Anyway, thank you so much and we are very grateful Jeffrey Sachs: It's been a privilege Victor. Thank you so much. Victor Nee: Take care, Jeff. Jeffrey Sachs: Bye-bye.