Many of our viewers have asked us What if we made a big pile of bombs and exploded every nuclear weapon Strangely enough, we couldn't find a good source to answer this question to our satisfaction. So, we gathered together a few scientists And find an answer to this extremely once and for all. Currently, there are 15,000 nuclear weapons on Earth. The US and Russia both have around 7,000, while France, China, the UK, own around 1,000 between them. But, how much destructive power is this really? Let's try to put these numbers into perspective. On Earth, there are about 4,500 cities or urban areas with at least 100,000 inhabitants. Some are bigger than others, we need three nuclear bombs to completely wipe out one city. This means we could destroy with our nuclear arsenal, killing more than three billion people in an instant. And, we'd still have 1,500 nuclear weapons left. Now that's what an expert would call, &quot;overkill.&quot; So, we can say with confidence, and they can do a lot of damage. But, what if we make a huge pile Let's drop our nuclear pile in the middle of the Amazon rainforest; just a show nature who's boss. Our warheads, piled haphazardly, A typical US warhead has the power So, fifteen thousand warheads would be For scale, this is enough with every building and skyscraper using stacks of TNT. The closest thing we can compare One of the deadliest volcanic eruptions on the island of Krakatoa. The eruption was so powerful, that 70% of the island, and the surrounding archipelago, was destroyed killing tens of thousands of people. Its effects were felt around Our nuclear pile contains 15 times So, let's finally push the button. Three, two, one. In a second, a fireball 50 kilometers across and creates a blast wave that flattens Every living thing within The explosion will be heard literally around the world, as the pressure wave circles the Earth Millions of tons of incinerated material The mushroom cloud reaches pushing up against space itself. After things have calmed down, a small crater -- about ten kilometers across is left in the center of the worst spreading throughout South America, And, now, the unpleasant part begins. Extremely radioactive material and a large area several kilometers as is everywhere for hundreds of kilometers downwind. Much of the fallout is carried high and carried around the planet. The amount of radioactive material which still isn't civilization-ending, A portion of the particles will flow and cause a nuclear winter that could lower global temperatures This explosion was pretty bad if The Amazon rainforest is pretty much history, which is not great. But, human life will go on. OK, but what if we explode more nuclear weapons? Let's suppose humanity decided and build as many nuclear bombs as possible. At current usage, it's estimated that there are around enough to power human civilization for over 2,000 years, or to build millions of nuclear warheads. For the sake of argument, let's say we create a pile which makes up a cube three kilometers high of the asteroid impact that ended Except, it's also nuclear. Three, two, one. Our pile explodes in a fireball that it's visible from half of South America, with so much power that forming a crater 100 kilometers across. Bedrock on the scale of whole mountain ranges while thousands of tons of material that it's ejected into space. Some leaves Earth forever, while most of it comes raining down that heats up the atmosphere killing most big animals The Earth's crust rings like a bell struck by global earthquakes decimating cities around the world, while hurricane-force winds flatten and wildfires consume the continent. The abundance of hydrocarbons are cast into the atmosphere, darting the sky and keeping sunlight from reaching the surface, dropping temperatures to near freezing worldwide. The ensuing global winter may last for decades, and results in the extinction We could also mention that every corner but at this point, it doesn't matter that much anymore. This is humanity's extinction event. The astronauts aboard the International Space Station but it's not unlikely that the spray Those lucky enough to be in bunkers, may survive the longest and have to venture out for more. They'll find the world a The planet, itself, doesn't care at all. After just a few million years, and life is thriving, arguably even more so If intelligent life emerges again, When they study geology, covering the entire world, and the other nasty things it decays to, mixed with rare earth metals They would probably be very, very confused.