In March 1943, Grand Admiral Donitz' 108 Allied vessels that month alone. and some fear a German victory in the Atlantic Britain loses its lifeline - and maybe even the limping home in defeat. So how, in just two From 1939, German U-boats threaten Allied do play a role, Admiral Karl Donitz hopes his against British merchant vessels. This means massively degrade British military capabilities, At first, the Germans have some success. in which U-boats easily target mostly isolated war in 1942, this increases to 1,160. The time" or even "American Shooting Season". the Atlantic is the critical theatre late 1942 it is one of the few areas in which In November 1942, U-boats alone sink 768,000 gross war. As a result, Churchill asks his allies for for referring to the German submarine threat: The term "submarine" is to be reserved are those dastardly villains who sink our and noble craft which sink theirs." (Gannon) 1943, US leaders agree to prioritise the Germany until 1944 . Although some commanders impossible to use the United Kingdom as a base But even with promises of more US support, issues remain. Across the allied and internal competition for scant resources. In 1939, Donitz had just 39 subs, but by early Then, when Grand Admiral Erich Raeder's resigns promotes Donitz to the top naval position . Hitler Atlantic, although the admiral remains realistic "The harsh realities of the submarine times lie ahead of us." (Van der Vat 289) navy, the Allies also expect the U-boat menace to Gap, a favoured U-boat hunting ground known to partly thanks the massive expansion of the end-to-end escort, but they're still too few and in the UK, Iceland, US and Canada have been to 1,000-km gap off the Cape of Farewell. Allied - including retrofitted civilian vessels - or but until January 1943, British Coastal Command bomber offensive against Germany or the Pacific. Beobachtungsdienst intelligence service cracked British communications, they organise group of convoys thanks to codebreaking. the 1942 Operation Torch landings in North 1943. The Royal Navy diverts 125 destroyers demands for African operations mean North Atlantic The result is an increase in sinkings German U-boats and surface ships sink 120 tons - 484,000 of which sinks in the Atlantic. the previous month - is often seen as a major "...[T]here is insufficient shipping to allow which have been decided on. Every ship sunk makes evading the U-boat packs and, hence, we shall have A December 1943 Allied report even goes so far to the entire war - was threatened. has questioned the crisis idea. The supposed which suffer disproportionate losses - 22 of only 31% of March convoys are attacked, much lower in the first quarter of 1943, sinkings are building more ships than they are losing, with a Perhaps most significantly, there is nothing in of imminent victory. In fact, within two months, Just as the March convoy battles are raging, the to better pool resources and standardise the mid-Atlantic Air Gap and taking the fight Western Approaches is optimistic: can turn from the defensive to another and Early 1943 also sees several tactical, coming to fruition around the same time. Ultra is the most well-known tool available the only one - or even the most important. U-boats, which are tracked by the men and women in around them - an effective tactic. But Ultra 72 hours to de-crypt German communications. There their settings - including almost all of 1942. the likelihood of evading them decreases. Ultra pinpoint U-boats preparing to attack. By early 1943, more allied escorts are equipped ASDIC sonar can listen for submerged U-boats, reveal approaching U-boats, but allows for like the Hedgehog and depth charges. the new 10-centimetre radar can detect U-boats but when combined with others, they create "The first indication of a U-boat attack would contact... you could hear these pings... and the distance how far the submarine is away. When they the order is 'Fire'. That means the depth-charges it was almost like lightning going fantastic thing to see." (Bailey 67/68) U-188 is on the receiving end of a "Alarm bells shrilled loudly... "Destroyer meters!"... A quick glance at the manometer at the same instant for the first time I heard Now I discovered how appalling loud these sounded hydrophone wondering if I would ever hear Another important Allied development is High "Huff Duff". This can detect German U-boat close enough to pursue and attack. It greatly to be more proactive. The technology existed with at least 2 HF/DF equipped ships per convoy. weapons and better organisation. Previously 6 merchantmen, but civilian experts led by Professor protect 48 merchant ships just as effectively. frees up escorts which can become mobile support And finally, there are more Very Long-Range Coastal Command has 49 VLR bombers, up by the hundreds of bombers attacking German air gap. Aircraft like B-24 Liberators, Whitley become vital submarine killers, quickly The combination of new tools and tactics the battle balances out, as the Allies May 1943 is the decisive month, especially the from Halifax, Nova Scotia, the convoy has 37 with High Frequency Direction Finding and new the convoy and gathers up to 25 U-boats in three approach from the south-east, while Wolfpack attack the convoy in the airgap, but British a system failure means the information is not the attack opens on May 18, the escorts proactive while the convoy also makes evasive turns. Soon Allied aircraft which hound the U-Boats U-boat command abandons the attack. another with no losses. On board one of the sunken Paul, who dies with the rest of his crew. terrible month for the Kriegsmarine, in which operational . Kapitanleutnant Peter-Erich Cremer "This May situation was quite out of hand: as I to return from patrol reached... more than one a On May 24, Donitz orders his U-boats to equipment and countermeasures are available. the U-boats? Allied developments are one factor, the Germans had poor intelligence on Allied Finding, radar, and Enigma decryption. As avoid or compensate for them. Secondly, Donitz's especially before an attack . This gave British them. During the SC-130 battle, there were 104 the U-boats. Thirdly, the Kriegsmarine lacked Hermann Goring's Luftwaffe, but Goring resisted The increase in U-boat numbers also didn't although the sheer number of active "By April 1943 the average kill per U-boat at sea as a sort of sporting score, but the number of was of little significance in solving the problem. was replaced by fifty hunters who averaged one decline in human marksmanship." (Van der Vat 316) experience, were dropping quickly. In two years' experience. In 1943 this was only 1943 had only one or two patrols to their name. for 30% of sinkings. All these so-called "aces" but by 1943, the veterans of the early war were built and crewed during the war - would never the average tonnage sunk per U-Boat per day From 1939 to early '43, the Atlantic is the maintained the offensive. But now even there, meant to be permanent though. He fast-tracks new group tactics, but the U-boat wolfpacks the Atlantic becomes the logistical Two years after "Black May" for the German U-Boat Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Nazi Goebbels commit suicide in the Reichschancellery city centre during the climax of the Battle of produced the most detailed documentary about it: day by day in 18 episodes and runs for 4 1/2 hours. combat footage, interviews with experts like David Weapons. We couldn't upload this uncompromising YouTube though - it would get demonetized in Berlin? On Nebula, a streaming service we're don't have to worry about advertising guidelines you can sign up for just $30 a year and get original series Rhineland 45 and Red Atoms and YouTube. And that's not all, apart from watching Battle of Britain series from Real Engineering, where you can learn useful skills directly I take you through the entire production give a glimpse behind the scenes of what it takes that's nebula.tv/realtimehistory us here at Real Time History directly As usual you can find all the sources for this watching this video on Nebula or Patreon, thank more about two battles directly influenced check out our videos about Tunisia and production of Real Time History, the only techno version of the Das Boot title theme