"We need to get the people off hold the rig... the rig might be going over." emergency radio, his voice barely The Ocean Ranger, once a towering fortress in the it from all sides, as frigid water poured in. their only hope for survival, as others from the gigantic oil rig into the ocean faced with a terrifying reality - would Only a few hours earlier, the Ocean Ranger gigantic oil rig was leaning dangerously far over, as if the ocean itself was determined to pull How did it all go so wrong? How did become a deathtrap? And with time running out, They thought it was unsinkable. Even though the Ranger was technically a self-propelled drilling time, it was by far the largest platform of or 28,000 short tons, and standing at While it towered over the crew aboard the main itself was concealed deep beneath the water. 400 foot pontoons equipped with ballast tanks rig afloat in harsh seas. In theory, it should at it. Unsinkable... or so they thought. Newfoundland, 166 miles, or 267 kilometers, burrowing 1500 feet deep into the natural oil an area known for dangerous weather, The crew aboard the Ocean Ranger had trusted from the sheer force of the sea. But that against the combined forces of the elements, February 14th, 1982. listened to the weather forecasts, the reporters 90 knots and waves of up to 37 feet was to a large cyclone further out in the Atlantic. was designed to withstand so nobody saw any immediate cause for concern. against powerful waves and storms before. The Banks hadn't been understated to the crew them aboard had any reason to believe that this After all, why would it? The crew still had to prepare the rig and Some were responsible for finding carried overboard by the fearsome winds and with meticulously checking that weathertight Then, most critical of all, was the need to control system mediated the amount of seawater could maintain the Ocean Ranger's buoyancy in If that failed, they were all as good as dead. beast. It's designed to withstand 110 foot tall Despite how intense this incoming storm is crew from going about their day-to-day duties taken... but they wouldn't be nearly enough in Little did any of the crew know, the decimate all of the Ocean Ranger's defenses. Ranger could withstand the weather, or out of fear Mobil if they abandoned their station, the crew conditions on the rig made it harder to work. the fierce winds of 80 knots, or 92 miles It was dark out at sea. Even with the lights Drilling quickly became an uphill battle. The most crucially the ballast control system, Before long, the waves battering increasing in height and gradually pushing the was in constant radio communication with the keeping them all up to speed with the situation 7:15 PM. crew aboard the neighboring oil platform overheard Ranger, reporting that the waves were getting There was also something about a broken Only moments before, a rogue wave had come larger and stronger than others in the storm. The bombarded by increasingly powerful waves... The wave directly struck the side of the Ocean the porthole windows... One that just so happened to water surged into one of the most essential rooms vital for keeping the Ocean Ranger stable. the rig now had a way in. the tech in the ballast control room. The porthole seawater to gush inside with each big wave - from the ocean's surface, any wave higher than 9:00 PM. aboard the nearby Sedco oil platform overheard Their crew says that there's something seriously They now seemed to be "opening Back on the Ocean Ranger, the furious waters the whole rig to list and tilt violently A way to manually control the ballast Beneath the ocean's surface, more water floods the support columns for the rig. Thanks to the and the Ocean Ranger tilting forwards, the the corner support columns began to flood. The eventually spilling out onto the upper deck. to the knee, crewmen needing to wade through spread to the oil platform, it looked like the under the icy depths of the storm-frenzied sea. room were still battling the elements Ranger. But the water isn't the only problem There had been a startling lack of crew The crew had no idea how to operate the ballast the storm and the water disrupting the system. the Ocean Ranger had accidentally increased the far worse. The early hours of February 15th, 1982. reporting that their platform was listing the MV Seaforth Highlander, sailed out to assist. the airwaves, helicopters owned by Mobil and heading towards the rig. Hospitals in St John's Out at sea, despite help being on the way, the while at the same time, the stern of The ballast control system was located in the their footing and risking serious injury To make matters worse, the pumps used to fill the power to send the water up such a steep incline Each hour, the list of the Ocean Ranger crew were either going to need to abandon the and emergency procedures are quickly underway. but it was now time to start seriously considering members raced up and down the lengths of that weren't deemed essential. Everyone had But as if the severity of the and the increasing tilt of the platform weren't to regaining control of the ballast system, formal training in the safety procedures for the They were on their own, working off what which was limited at best, and not helped by being inadequate as well. The standby vessels on protocols to follow, which would mean that that successfully evacuated aboard lifeboats. crew of the Ocean Ranger exercised their right to enlisting the support of the MV Boltentor and for the Sedco 706 and another nearby However, these boats along with the MV Seaforth that were battering the Ocean Ranger. The high approach for the boats, making it just as big the crew they were sailing out to assist. desperately to find an exit strategy, the support They had every intention of reaching the unstable but the harsh conditions were making it all wasn't the only factor hindering the rescue woefully ill-equipped for the task and hadn't crew members if they managed to make their 1:30 AM. Ocean Ranger was transmitted: "There will be no comes the foreboding broadcast from the radio Afterward, the support vessels could listening in for radio chatter only received Aboard the rig, the crew was in the midst of as hopping into a lifeboat and sailing to the people all clamoring to get off the sinking rig. being aboard one of the first lifeboats, or were gear they could carry. Some were putting the rest the life jackets had been passed out among the Others were trying desperately to ready the listed and titled more and more around them. them was the knowledge among some crew that, even reason that evacuation was a last resort. it was just an exchange; Swapping a huge vessel tiny one that could just as easily be swept the Ocean Ranger, the crewmen would still be at water while huddled together in the hopes them and be able to reach them in the storm. for evacuation, with little preparation or this, the others were starting to panic. Tensions as to what had happened, while others were rig became their watery tomb. But not one of them All their lives were at stake. were designed to launch in adverse and extreme the angle the oil platform was now listing at. In relied on gravity to drop directly down into the level - which it certainly wasn't anymore. was able to successfully launch, containing all jammed inside the tiny vessel. the water, the MV Seaforth Highlander Only to see bodies floating in the water. floating in the choppy seas, according to later Combined with the others aboard the lifeboat, that water, one way or another. The MV Seaforth Highlander spotted one of the lifeboats. It drifted towards the Ranger's crew members. As it pulled up alongside able to hurriedly throw lines to the lifeboat, and But the storm was still swirling the waters into of the lifeboat and brought aboard the Seaforth hard against the hull of the support vessel. snap and overturn the lifeboat. It capsized in the men clambering out of the lifeboat now clinging to bone, their hands numb from the icy water. the swelling waves to reach the By the time the boat reached them, Only one of the Ocean Ranger crew was seen in a almost chopped him to pieces with its propellers rescue crew aboard hurled a grappling hook into Even though it hooks onto his life jacket, the Despite trying desperately to save someone, anyone Seaforth realized they couldn't pull someone waves making it dangerous to attempt to save As if battling with the tall, icy waves and hard enough, the standby vessels just hadn't 2:30 AM. helicopters had arrived. Much like the standby severity of the storm. One made its way to hover lowered a rescuer down to pluck the Ocean Ranger The choppers battled against wind speeds of 90 in those conditions, the thrashing to recover bodies from the waters below. was try and guide the support ships towards bodies to get closer, it was clear to the crews aboard boats, that they were putting themselves in harm's risked being knocked overboard themselves by the Ranger's crew in their grim fate... Another of the rescue teams reported that was still listing heavily, waves were crashing standing high above sea level. From a distance, and all the lifeboats were gone. They could remaining crew had managed to launch them... vessels and helicopters working in tandem handful of the inflatable life rafts from the One of the boats found one lifeboat that crew members inside, but the rescue crew were That lifeboat was never seen again. it was already too late. They could do little the boats below, but they were having just as hard Each and every member of the Ocean Ranger's had either succumbed to hypothermia or had survived aboard the capsizing platform, The Ocean Ranger was listing so 3:13 AM. completely and disappeared beneath the water line. of the ocean. The disaster was finally over... attempts by standby vessels and helicopters to The wave that started it all by crashing through ballast control system, had taken eighty-four In the immediate aftermath of the disaster, the recovery mission. Over the next few days, of bodies were recovered from the North Atlantic A few days later, debris from the Ocean washed up on the shores of Newfoundland. had subsided, the combined forces of the Coast Guard conducted an extensive search for Over several weeks after the sinking, they the ocean that the platform had gone down in. feet to the southeast of the wellhead it had The main structure of the Ocean Ranger lay surrounded by its own debris. Everything that oil rig's derrick and the cranes on board now Determining the ruins of the Ocean Ranger to marine life and seafaring vessels alike, toward deeper waters, where it was allowed Now check out "Why Is Titanic Still at the