This episode is supported by, SquareSpace. Over the past seven months, Starbase has been the first Orbital Flight Test of the largest The amount of incredibly difficult and labor the team at Starbase in this time is astounding. In my opinion, a lot of this amazing work acknowledgement. And in some cases it's gone completely unnoticed. Take this for example On August 31 of 2022, Booster 7 performed Launch Mount. At the time, this was the most engines ever quickly working their way up to a full 33 As an outsider looking in, it was really starting Orbital Launch Mount structure was nearing Well, at least in terms of the mechanical Which is a reasonable assumption considering But, there was something extremely important Nearly 1400 miles away from Starbase Texas, a second launch ring structure for the Pad While there are still no public images of guarantee that the second one is going to original here at Starbase. Essentially this is the same iterative design booster, raptor engines, else you can think of. This means that before constructing the second upon the lessons that they have learned so to improve the overall functionality and design But unlike ship 20 and booster 4 that were 24 and Booster 7 were ready, SpaceX can't This means, any critical mechanical changes to become retrofits on the first one. With that being said, our team was on the SpaceX started assembling the launch tower Watching the upgrade process of the Orbital been like witnessing a caterpillar evolving its appearance when I say this. SpaceX added tons of new automated safety improve the operational efficiency of Stage This includes a relatively large network of from colliding with edge of the Orbital Launch a legit concern for SpaceX So, how do you upgrade every major system the middle of a super heavy static fire campaign? Well, that's what we are going to learn My name is Zack Golden and welcome to another [Music] Hey Starship Addicts, thanks for joining us. I gotta tell ya, I'm really excited to cover In the last deep dive investigation we covered had to be performed on Ship 24 in order to would not collapse during Max Q. Today, we are going to get back to discussing some pretty awesome discoveries that I think the insane amount of work the SpaceX team Speaking of getting it right? Are you looking to build a stunning website values? If, so then look no further than Squarespace. With Squarespace, you can create a professional Squarespace offers a variety of beautiful makes it easy to design and launch your website someone to do it for you. But Squarespace is more than just a website It also offers powerful features to help you SEO tools, social media integration, and email Plus, Squarespace's reliable hosting servers running smoothly. Whether you're an entrepreneur, a blogger, everything you need to build your online presence. So why wait? Head over to SquareSpace.com/CSIStarbase and or domain. You can find that link in the description Alright, so before we discuss the Orbital Launch mount upgrades I want to new change at the production site which will have some relevance to what we Many of you may have seen this new platform Megabay. This stand was installed near the rocket Garden and Boosters. This garden contains Ship 20 which will never final upgrades ahead of the first Orbital only permanent residence here considering land during the Suborbital Test flight campaign. To the left of that is Booster 4, which is its position in the garden...for now. Overall, the Sanchez site is a great place But, It's also a great place to perform other on Starships. As you will notice, this stand is much taller are resting on. The reason for this is pretty straight forward. SpaceX needs a location where they can install new Starships that have successfully completed This new stand alleviates a rather significant site as soon as the Raptor Integration process Typically, the moment a ship moves out of begin stacking another Starship now that there Before the arrival of this new platform, SpaceX engines into the ship, and each of them came The first option involves pausing the stacking incomplete tank sections out of the Highbay next door. When engine installation is performed in the a stand that looks very similar to the one This stand features a removable lateral support while holding one of the 3 Center Gimballing As you can probably imagine, this simply doesn't nozzles. SpaceX does not have a transport stand tall underneath the aft skirt of the vehicle while So for this reason, they have to actually see in this example from Labpadre. Damn. You know what, Its Actually it's kind of hard this angle. Let's go down stairs really quick so I can Alright so, The first step to this process to lift the RVac engines over the rails and After all 3 are in, the ship can be lowered From there the engines are lifted and installed Until this install process is complete, stacking The reason for this is because SpaceX has Starships in the Highbay. We believe that with this new method, the to the ship during the entire stacking process If you want to know more stacking method that SpaceX is using for their ships than I will leave a link to this twitter description. So yeah, if the bridge crane is going to be a problem since there is only one bridge crane Until now, the only available alternative, Suborbital test stand. But this involves transporting all six engines, required to perform the job over to the launch As you can tell, neither of these options why this new engine install stand is a much site in order to enable There is a secondary purpose for this stand though. And for that we need to take a step back and I know, I mean look at it, it sounds pretty The very first step to assembling this stand This pad is similar to the ones used on the It has large steel embed plates encased in A lot care goes into making sure that each Once the vertical support frames were lifted a process of completely leveling off each You can see the laser total station sitting The reason it's so important for this to be goes on top of the legs before the platform A clevis bracket like this would typically would allow it to pivot to different positions. That makes it a bit odd for this application thing isn't moving anywhere. The reason for this odd design has to do with to the base. Some of you may have guessed by now that these What we are actually looking at here is a We've come across these several times in recent them before. This is a different type of load cell from This is actually referred to as a load pin is designed to be directly swapped out with integrity. These are typically used in applications where directly to a pin or bolt, which is why you of cranes. These can be used to measure both tension able to measure some axial loading as well. In this case we would only be considering is pressing down on the pin in the center. There is also a reaction force from the double end. These forces are measured using internal strain changes proportionally with the amount of This signal is then converted into a weight So essentially, what we are looking at here By taking the sum of these six measurements, ship once it's fully outfitted with engines So this raises two questions. First, shouldn't SpaceX already know how CAD software to design it? Well, yes and no. For one, CAD software isn't going to give because the accuracy of this weight estimate density and volume data used in the CAD model. So you need this information for every component Of course they do have the capability of doing data points here and each of those values It significantly easier to just set your starship far less error. So the second question is, why would they accomplish the same thing? Well, I did mention that a lot of cranes use hoisted. So once the ship is lifted off of the stand, final weight. What the crane cannot do however, is locate For that you need a minimum of three reference Using the load pin on the crane you would do the trick. Now some of you seasoned Starship veterans because you are probably aware of the fact of doing this with a crane. The second method is by using a special load Starship from its nose. This has been around for a very long time. We call this the squid because of how it looks the top. Each of these straps have blue shackles that ship. These shackles are actually wireless load unit that we found online. I'm going to avoid getting too deep into the Looking at the starship from an overhead position, cone. When you draw a circle connecting each of a radius of 2.4 meters. The six load cells would be equally spaced When you take the force measurement at any from the center you end up with a value that the circle. Once you know the magnitude of the torque vector math to determine the exact center the center of the circle. For this example you would also have to take which makes the math a little more difficult. By doing this on the ground, the equation But the most important thing overall is that moving this operation out a significant 1 to 2 week disruption in the Of course, they would probably rather perform summer months and the rainy seasons. In the future I expect that they will be able or...Highbay 3...whatever you wanna call it, After that, I would expect this work station Anyways, I'm sorry for that there, but I promise, in a few minutes you will understand why it was important to cover Alright, well let's move back upstairs and Orbital Launch Mount. If you are enjoying this episode so far, than The first of the new systems upgrades to the September of 2022 shortly after Booster 7's As I mentioned in the introduction of this these upgrades ever since construction on The first sign that these changes were on began lifting new some new hardware onto the It started off with a pair of new electronic wall of the structure. Attached to the control box were 7 steel conduit to their destination. 6 of these made 90 degree turns into the table, be for something on the exterior of the structure. This was installed about 2 months ahead of performed a 7 engine Static fire Test on September 14th, and then finally an 11 engine test on November 29th which also of the autogenous pressurization of the booster. The moment this was complete, Booster 7 was then the REAL robustness upgrades started SpaceX began setting up scaffolding around panel. These two 19inch pipes are used to deliver Heavy booster. In this image from Starship Gazer you can removed from both the liquid oxygen and liquid A few weeks later on December 15th everything day difference from the original configuration. First of all, speaking as a former project I just want to say that these guys did an here, and I'm sure that was not an easy task One of the more noticeable changes were these supply lines. The red valve you are seeing up top is for There is an identical valve hidden behind This was something I was really happy to see double isolate the discharge end of the liquid This is an extremely important safety upgrade. I'll give you an example of why that is. After the liquid oxygen and methane are finished is to shut the valves on the booster Quick of the two flex hoses. I believe this has to be done to allow the There is a lot of weight inside of those flex Also, if the vehicle were to suffer from some on the pad. It would more than likely obliterate this the massive steel cover or not. If that were to happen, the only valve holding lines has now been eliminated and from there the fire. And that's a lot of fuel because we are from here....all the way back to the fluids is located. So by having these new valves located here, is drained out, there is a significantly reduced in this location. Which is really good, because an explosion all the way back to the orbital tank farm At the same time this was occurring, on the the pre-press manifold system. Let's do a quick review of how this works. This manifold is used to supply pressurized to bring them up to their ideal operating The line on the left is used to send gaseous methane tank, and the one of the right which gaseous nitrogen to several different locations. Let's start from lowest branch which is barely Once this valve is opened, nitrogen gas is then turns towards the center of the table. From there it goes into this circular manifold Using this downward facing nozzle right here, at the water supply. As many of you may know by now, this is referred For the sake of time, I'm not going to go but if you would like to know more you can channel! Next there is a large nitrogen supply that Truthfully, this is one of the many things this point I'm not sure if we will ever figure Above that, there is an additional nitrogen This is one is used to pressurize the liquid Lastly, the one on top is a crossover valve I believe this was designed to allow SpaceX for the upper tank of the booster. All 5 of these branches have blue pneumatic the system. To the left of those valves were 5 manual as a safety mechanism. If work is being performed on any of the systems the closed position. They also have locks on them to prevent them individuals have the key's needed to unlock This should ideally prevent any unexpected while crews are performing maintenance. In early October after the 7 engine Static valves and replaced them with pneumatic valves all the others. After the 11 engine test in December, they and this is what it looked like after it was On top of the valve actuators you can see present on the original actuators. The ones that were originally installed had indicator of whether the valve is open or that. These position marking dials were removed which are sometimes referred to as limit switches. These are used to allow SpaceX to remotely So if a valve is stuck open even though it's of the issue. Without this, it would take much longer to You will notice that the grey ones on the These are similar to the gold position sensors, likely part of a feedback system which allows position. In other words, this more advanced sensor pre-press gasses while, the gold sensors are valve is opened or closed. I believe this is important for enabling the automatically regulate its own pressure. Another thing that stands out here is that and two sets of grey ones. You can see them just behind the first pair. So that means this connection right here is different directions. By doing this SpaceX is adding some much needed This means if one of the valves fails, it doesn't result in a complete The system will automatically swap to the any outside intervention. This redundancy was also added to the LOX And, If you thought that wasn't complicated There are 8 additional smaller valves arranged We won't discuss the purpose of these today, next deep dive investigation. Again, it is extremely impressive that they like they did. SpaceX went from having 7 pneumatic valves That's 12 additional valves, and 8 sensors, remote solenoid valves, and an intense network the table, and over to the new control box QD. So installation was just half the battle because amount of work. I mean just look at the amount of terminals Now that we are on this side of the table loading system to see what else was added Just like the position sensors used on the system into a smart one as well.. Comparing the before and after images we can group of triplicated sensors on the side of We were able to identify these devices as for short. They are mounted inside of what we refer to liquid oxygen supply. Many of you will be familiar the liquid oxygen bleed valve which can always be seen venting large amounts of gaseous oxygen If you are totally unfamiliar with how this this video where I gave a super in-depth analysis But, here is a quick refresher. When the large supply valve inside of the liquid oxygen to the Launch Mount, the cryogenic pressure gas as it comes in contact with the This gas travels all the way to the launch off valve to release the pressure in the system. Boil off within the pipes will continue until At this point, the gas coming out of the vent Even though you can't actually see the liquid occurs because it will go from looking like Usually if the wind is blowing in the right covered in a cloud of gaseous oxygen as the But, even though they are receiving fluid which started off at ambient temperature, matching the temperature of the cryogenic Until that happens the liquid oxygen will system. Even though it may no longer be boiling off, chilled state. The issue with the original design of this way of knowing when the transition to the Without the presence of these sensors to monitor the bleed valve, the only way of guaranteeing is to run it way longer than necessary. By adding in these temperature sensors, SpaceX This probably results in a significant reduction the pre-chill process. The reason there are 3 sensors instead of If there was only a single sensor, you wouldn't readings. With two sensors, the readings should match to fail. At that point you would be reading two different correct. By placing three sensors in this location, two of them will still be functioning properly at fault. These removable caps bolted onto the flanges sensors, should one need to be swapped out. On the methane side, it is the exact same to open atmosphere, the methane is diverted returns it back to the tank farm so it can the gaseous methane back to liquid. Increased efficiency on this side means that inside of the heat exchanger because there Reducing the amount of waste where ever possible the fact that it took 158 liquid nitrogen what was lost during the Anyways, they did made several other changes yet, so I'm going to skip over them for now this is where things start So at the same time this electrician was wiring another control box appeared on the side of control panel for the outer 20 raptor engines. There were several workers busy mounting 6 boxes. Initially I thought we had no chance of sleuthing directed towards the inside of the table. There were no other areas on the outside of sensors being installed so this new system won't be visible to us. So I gave up on this one shortly after I first But now thanks to the arrival of the new Starship information we discussed at the beginning re-evaluate what I was seeing in these perfectly Now let's take a look at this view showing control panel. When we zoom into the middle of the screen...we Because of its size, I initially thought this of pneumatic tool being used inside of the But what we are seeing here, is actually a that we looked at before. These things are absolutely massive. So large in fact that you can see them from Looking closely you can actually see two shiny There is also two darker cylinders as well pins which had already been swapped out. You can see it a little more clearly when Given the size of these load cells, there be meant to go. The only location where it makes sense to mount is on the hold down arms. And unlike the raptor install platform, this Looking at this animation from Ryan Hansen look like. There are 4 clevis pins used on each of these There is a large one here that connects the ceiling. A smaller one right here that joins the two the lower constraining arm to the hold down The fourth clevis pin is located at the bottom like the one up top. This one also makes the most sense to be used hold down arms. But, I think the most accurate measurement would involve placing load While the booster is resting on the hold down while the upper one is in tension. I'm not 100% certain how they pulled this these large clevis pins out for load pins After going back through photos taken from of them on the ground in this image which So this means that it took at least 2 months Alright so let's talk practical applications Why would SpaceX want to monitor the load Well, one of the most basic reasons this would of the fully stacked booster and Starship. And just like with the raptor install platform, the center of gravity. It would also be useful during the propellant to verify that the sensors inside of the booster accurately. SpaceX should already know in the tanks but this is a way of verifying that information because ideally the calculated actual. Theoretically this could the propellant tanks and having to release excess fuel out of the depressurization vents in that way. Another possible application here would be wind loading on the vehicle. Looking at the Starship from this angle you is for this vehicle, especially while the Typically the wind at Starbase blows in from So if the wind is blowing towards the tower, in that direction. As you can imagine, this means the load on distributed. The load pins on this side of the table would ones on the opposite side. Being able to detect when high wind loading it could potentially trigger an automated its becomes necessary to re-attach the chopsticks stability. While both of those are valid possibilities, be applied which I think is far more critical I believe that the purpose of monitoring the is related to ensuring that the thrust output all 20 hold down arms after the moment of I think this is an extremely important capability Most of you have probably seen this footage I showed it on my most recent during the intro. This little maneuver is famously known as This power slide was initiated after one the This instantly reduced the thrust to weight a few meters above the ground. The reason it slid to the side was a result the vehicle to tip over until the thrust vector it again If something like this were to occur with be much different. The reason is because the Super Heavy Booster's below top of the launch deck. As you can tell, it's a bit of a tight fit lot of room for error. Let's do a little experiment to see why that For this we are going to use the Starbase play with the engine configuration a little it to. Alright so now we have ignition of all 33 a lower throttle so the booster isn't trying Now let's disable 3 engines on this side in Okay, next we can throttle up the engines.... happens. As you can see, due to the uneven thrust, to the side where the engines were deactivated. Now the thrust vector control should be able doesn't happen before the clamps release than of these engines are going to contact the booster is able to get clear of the structure. This would be a major issue and would likely zero depending on how bad the collision was. Now, that may sound a bit extreme, but hopefully After speaking with Ryan Hansen Space about with the hold down arms is actually significantly the table. The hold down arms only have a few inches booster. So even the slightest amount of sideways motion out of the way could cause damage. By having load cells on each of the 20 hold Once the unbalanced load is detected after throttle on the opposite side to compensate 13 gimballing engines, prior to throttle up Now this theoretical situation is assuming launch the moment one of them doesn't ignite. I mentioned this topic to my followers on replied were under the general consensus that would result in an aborted launch but... I'm not so sure about that. So yeah, I'll let you all be the judge because any of this. But I am extremely confident that these load sensors and relays that all work together In reality, the launch mount is actually an refers to it as Stage Zero. I can only imagine how hard it must have been controls the flow of all of this critical This is an extremely advanced system and that One thing I didn't mention earlier when we things aren't really meant to just function Just like a lot of measurement devices that some sort of calibration at least once a year. So how would you calibrate something this? The natural answer would be to put the booster the value reported by the load cells is equal by 20. As simple as that sounds, there are several Number 1 doing a calibration like this requires you are using to calibrate it. At this time, the booster had a lot of external there is no way SpaceX would have an accurate Number 2 to perform a proper calibration on the weight to be evenly distributed on all Like I mentioned earlier even the slightest to throw off those values during calibration. And number 3 its just overall not a good idea at the same. And, keep in mind its possible there are actually The best way to do this by testing opposite same reference weight on both of them because I'm sure a lot of you can probably see where At the beginning of January, exactly one month blue load spreader assembly arrived to the Once it was assembled, it hoisted into the a trey of counterweights. Each of these 12.5 ton counterweights are There were 48 of these for a total of 600 resting on which would be a known value Sooo, it turns out everyone was wrong about Myself included. SpaceX was not using these as a stress test survive with a fully loaded 5,000 ton Starship Instead, this was being used calibrate each into the Orbital Launch Mount. They performed this on all 20 arms, lifting the counterweights repeatedly on the sensor output and then make the necessary You might remember that the Versabar load on the hydraulic pistons. The value measured by these load cells should the hold down arms are experiencing. This means they can perform a dynamic calibration to 300 tons on either side. The alternative would be a static calibration to data points. In this case, that would be a line between You know, this just goes to show that, sometimes glad we have the chance to come back and correct Anyways, now that we know all of this, it fire test that occurred a few weeks later This was originally intended to be a 33 engine informed us that one of the engines auto aborted, engine before T-0. Well lets ignore the engine that auto aborted Because had the flight computer not detected engine test. The only reason I can come up with for why would be to intentionally create an unbalanced In the process they should be able to verify launch mount are detecting this shift in weight flight computer is making the proper adjustments the sensors. Finally, they would measure whether or not commanded by the flight computer was successful And if everything checks out, the booster throttle. Once the load management system detects that a value greater than 1, the booster can command The clamps will immediately retract into the rises into the air with zero sideways motion. It would be amazing if SpaceX were to provide to see this view during the launch but I won't In the meantime, make sure you check out the animation depicting the first orbital flight And prepare to be blown away...literally. Matter of fact, I'll just at the end of this video. Anyways, I'm sure that some of you who are that I haven't considered here, so I am looking the comments section. I hope you all found this as exciting as I If so than do us a favor and hit that like haven't already. On the next deep dive investigation we will made to the orbital launch mount. You may think you have seen it all, but I easily visible I want to say a huge thank you to those of monthly supporters on Patreon after the last I can't understate how valuable your support my full time job. Not only are you helping me to continue to enabling us to continue to use a majority the people who make all of this possible. Without the photographers who are out there details that enable our 3D Forensics Team see on these shows. And without the hard work from these artists, of these topics the way that we do. So if you would like to help contribute towards consider becoming a monthly supporter on Patreon join button. Doing so will give you access to exclusive of all of these episodes. You can also gain access to the CSI Starbase You can find a link to each of those options Before we go I want to also thank my team of the information needed to explain this And shoutout to our team of admins and mods into a mad house! Last but not least, Thank you to Squarespace And just in case I happen to not get this Test, I want to wish good luck to the incredible Thank you for all of your hard work that inspires Alright everyone! Hope to see you all next time Stage Zero Zack, signing off.