Former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and President Trump's longest serving national securit adviser, John Bolton. Mr. ambassador, thanks so much for being here with us. I just first want to ask you about the breaking news that we've been reporting on President Biden, President Biden approving Ukrain use of these long range U.S. weapons inside of Russia. What do you think about that mov Well, it's the right decision. I'm just worried it's too little too late. This should have happened two ye And it's emblematic of the sad r that all the United States wasn't able to deter the Russian invasion. For this two and a half years, Russia has largely deterred the United States and NATO from adequate assistance to Ukraine on a strategic basis. It's been one long public debate after another, going back to shall we supply attack arms to the Ukrainians at all? First, it's no then there's a debate, then there's yes. Should we supply the Ukrainians Abrams tanks first? It's no. Then there's a long debate. Then it's. Yes. Should we supply the Ukrainians with F-16s? First it's. No. Then there's a long debate and i Now, can we allow the Ukrainians to use attack arms inside Russia after a long debate? Now it's. Yes, but but it's two months until Donald Trump is inaugurate And I think there's little doubt what's going to happen here. Aid to Ukraine is most likely to diminish signi And it's I think the failure of the past and a half years to supply weapons systems on a strategic basis to major contributing factor to the military gridlock we see Yeah, the timing of all of this is pretty specific. And as our Kevin Liptak was repo it really, he says, in the eyes officials, comes at what they're of as an inflection point. Well, the inflection point was the American election. There could have been an inflect point two years ago, the Biden administration, after completely bumbling the initial Russian attack, reme the intelligence assessment or the political conclusion about the intelligence was and briefed to Congress, briefed to Congress after the Russian attack that Kyiv would fall in a matter and the whole country would fall in a matter of weeks. That was one argument that persuaded the Biden adminis not to put more weapons assistance into Ukraine. Even before the Russian invasion in February And I want to ask your opinion. Russian President Vladimir Putin has previously warned that allow Ukraine to use these long range weapons inside Russia would mean the NATO allies are directly at war with And that, quote, appropriate decisions would be made to those threats. We just heard Fred Pleitgen reporting there about how they've changed the wording around, their nuclea Are you concerned about that pie No, there are two, two aspects t Number one, this threat of a wid That's the phrase we've heard, day after day after day in the last two and a half years from the Biden administration. Could be conventional, could be If it's a conventional threat. Where's the Russian army that's going to provoke this wid And by the way, if it's so good and so extensive why isn't it fighting in Ukraine in the first given the miserable performance of Russian combat arms so far? And as to the nuclear threat, look, that change in Russian doctrine was insignificant. We have never renounced the first use of nuclear weapons if we need to. And basically, that's all they'r We have testimony from the heads intelligence agencies in public sessions that despite multiple rattling of the nuclear saber by Putin an there's never been a redeploymen of Russian nuclear forces. I'm not saying you don't take it seriously, but if Putin turns out bluff us, he gets what he wants for free. I want to move on and talk a little bit more broadly about the incoming Trump adminis And you note that that's happening very soon. And then that will change not only the positioning likely in Ukrain but but more broadly a lot of foreign policy. I want to talk first about who the president elect has selected for his director of national intelligence, former Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard. You have described her as a national security threat. What do you think? Just letting having now had that information kind of set in and seeing that h he is confident in pushing her f What do you think generally about that pick? If we can just get a little more thought on that. And then also to what might that for the war in Ukraine, where she has been known to spou some Russian propaganda? Well, I think, in the transition period, there's always a lot of blue smoke and mirrors from the incoming administration This is a very serious mistake. If Tulsi Gabbard is allowed to t as director of national intellig to begin with, she has zero experience dealing with the intelligence co And that position was set up by Congress, mistakenly, in my view. But they set it up to coordinate all intelligence agencies within the government. She doesn't have the slightest i of what the job involves. As a member of Congress, she got intelligence briefings, that she often said she didn't b I don't think she has any basis on which to manage this huge and critically important, function of the federal governme And number two, she has, over th spouted delusional beliefs, abou in Syria, about events in Iran, about Russian policy, that her o fellow members of Congress have said amount to repeating Russian propaganda. She's not capable of doing it. Her judgment is nonexistent. And the idea that somehow she would be put in charge of this critical function should be giving our adversaries in Moscow and Be a lot of relief. Do you expect the Senate Republi to push back on this? Well, I certainly hope they shou The Gabbard and Gates are the two worst appointments. There are others that are in con but those are the two worst. Just because Donald Trump won a fairly narrow majority, maybe less than two percentage p and an Electoral College victory all of six Electoral College votes bigger than his 2016 win is no e for the Senate to abandon its constitutional function. And I think there will be enough Republicans, maybe not a majorit but enough to block these nomine And and if they're not, we're in deep trouble. Yeah. And I you bring up Matt Ga I did want to ask you about that You've called him the worst nomination in American Elon Musk responded to you on X, calling you a, quote, dumb warmo saying your opposition to this pick is a good sign. I want to let you respond to tha I also want to get your thoughts on the role that Elon Musk is playing in, this incoming administration Well, I don't particularly care about Elon Musk's opinion. He has no notion what the qualif for attorney general are. And I think somebody with Matt G characters, is is, is a person that I'm surpris anybody wants to associate with. Look, Musk may have a big, big r It's not entirely clear what Trump is going to do with this Department of Government efficiency. If we can save a couple hundred billion dollars, I'd be delighte we can spend it on the defense b which desperately needs an incre In the meantime, I do believe th a sufficient number of Republica senators would say they will not abandon the separation of powers They will see gates, as the threat that he is to, the kind of professional Justice Department we want. If the complaint from Trump is the Department of Justice has been politicized by the Biden administration, then the remedy is depoliticize Matt Gates is exactly the opposite of that. He will make it worse. And I think it caused problems in the depart It could take decades to repair. And I know you've called for the to investigate both Gabbard and Gates before any Senate confirmation h We know that the Trump administr is looking to not do these FBI, FBI background, investigations and checks before putting them up formally for their nominations. How do you think? Again, just getting back at this just what Senate Republicans, might say about this. And do you think it's worth, the really pushing back on this if they're not getting all of the information they need to properly vet these individual Yeah. Look, these FBI background investigations are absolutely customary for all cabinet nominees. And most of the senior appointme below the cabinet level. They're not singling out Gates o to put them through this process And particularly when you're talking about the top law enforcement of of the federal government, who has an enormous national security role overseeing the FBI, overseeing counterintelligence o seeing prosecutions by the National Security Divisio as well as as the law enforcement functions. We can't have somebody, with the kinds of flaws it looks like Matt Gates has. And similarly with Tulsi Gabbard the ultimate keeper of our secre is somebody if she can't get through an FBI full field investigation, who in his right mind can vote for her for that job? And we really have to go. But I do just want to ask you qu So many Americans say we don't trust the governmen They want Trump to kind of rhetorically, you know, burn it down. Essentially. They don't want norms anymore. What do you say to them when it comes to this sort of th We don't want the norms. It's fi Let them blow past what's normal Well, you know, it's it's, the proper functioning of the Justice Department, serves everybody. And people have to say, if if we burn it down here. This is like the quote from, Tho Moore and a man for All seasons. Once you flattened all the laws who will protect you against the winds that will blow across this country.