Then I had a room with cracked walls . Wall peeling with broken eaves and full of garbage It's already in tatters . But the moment I opened the window Horse wins 10 years I have a house. I plan to give Xiaoyue a good start from beginning to end . Free When I got the key He is like this Um Uh, I can only describe it in three words. Damn it But fortunately, the house is filled with these old furniture The landlord said he left everything to me. Woo Renovate these old furniture Maybe it can turn waste into treasure to be treasure in the old furniture I met love at the corner. This watch might be an antique. original clean out the room by myself. I never expected that I still overestimated myself cleaning up the boxes on the first day, then The next day , the whole family came together to clean up. After learning from yesterday's lesson I packed it all up today. Use pesticides Spray every corner of the room After spraying Just clear out these cabinets and clutter. While we are cleaning My dad 's here The rescue panels have been removed . I have to say there is strength in numbers. Less than two hours I cleaned the room . After cleaning The room immediately became spacious and transparent Now it's time to start the real transformation. Does anyone have any good ideas or suggestions ? Today's task is to shovel Wall skin Because the old house is quite old Plus the wall is made of soil It falls off at the touch of a finger So I decided to put the wall Looking at so many walls I'm numb How long will it take for this person to finish shoveling ? Although the sisters were tricked by me But in my personality and big cake Under the temptation He finally stayed Hehe, sure enough With the addition of sisters Efficiency doubled Just when we were shoveling hard new problem has come Look at this dust Mom no longer has to worry about me choking on dust After 7749 hours of struggle We finally finished shoveling it. Why do I feel broken? A week ago I rented this courtyard for 180 yuan. I plan to spend 50,000 yuan to give him a major makeover. When I was hesitating about how to start After a careful inspection by my father I found that several of the houseboats on the roof were broken. So we decided to start with the roof. My dad and uncle were unloading tiles on the roof I will catch the tiles from below Good guy, you don't know until you tear it down A surprise when I opened it This houseboat has been eaten away by ants . All broken ones must be replaced When my dad unloaded the broken-down houseboat This view Wow No high or low The entire skylight So we immediately ran to the building materials market I bought a transparent lighting tile and installed it. Once the skylight is opened You can lie in bed and watch the stars. Watching my dad and uncle on the roof The appearance of flying over the eaves and walls I decided to try it out too. Indeed, standing high and seeing far This scenery is different . But yeah Apprentice mode on When we have almost widened the road My dad and uncle have also repaired the roof . Next is to continue to dismantle Look at my uncle 's skillful technique. I feel like giving him a crowbar move the entire earth Finally , remove the windows. It has become the current leaky 's what's going on recently rented this old house for 180 yuan. I plan to spend 50,000 yuan to give it a major renovation. The house is a bit dilapidated. But this window view is really dark So I'm going to change it from this to this First of all Just take down this old and broken window . This window is removed. outside the window made me cry So he came Never expected Open the window as soon as you arrive My second uncle 's white clothes I'll have to sacrifice here today . Wait for this picture While the second uncle was cutting the earth wall removed the extra soil . as the window opening is in full swing Here comes the problem A wooden frame was placed above the original window. To support earth bricks What is the size of the window I want ? It happens to be the same size as this piece of wood . this is opened directly This house is probably going to collapse. But there are always more solutions than problems When we use our smart little brains He became like this What After all the efforts Finally got this window open . Let's take a look at my window view. of the previous videos Many netizens said that the reason why everyone thinks it is a dangerous building is because Maybe it's because this kitchen is so shabby. Today I 'm going to give him a makeover This wall has already opened up the Great Rift Valley of East Africa So our first step is to reinforce this wall. The first one is to weld steel frames on both sides of the wall. Then use the iron sheet to pass through the wall and weld it On steel frame in fixing and preventing subsequent collapse The second option is to remove these cracks. Tie it up again The third option is to tear down the entire wall and rebuild it. It sounds like the latter two options are more feasible. To reinforce the wall , we have to remove these tiles first. when I was struggling with how to remove so many tiles My uncle got a bamboo After three times five divided by two He became like this Smart indeed . It will come down in no time . Um Quickly come, quicker go Let's just use the hand lever. After I took this one down, Reinforce the wall After my dad 's fierce operation The wall became like this Next is to install the top Because of the wood on the top It's basically all broken. So we spent money on a meal Bought a bunch of Wood removed from someone else's old house After processing these woods Then press him up. install the tiles that were removed earlier . So I decided to smash the window in this wall . When planning , first make grooves inside and outside the wall Then put the stick in the groove Support the soil bricks above and then dig After the masters finished one wall I think the other wall should be fine . I went to cook for the chefs . When I come back from cooking My goodness , why did they start digging? Wait, this wall has collapsed. Now that the wall has collapsed Then we can only rebuild it. This time I stayed close to the masters and watched them build the There were no mistakes . But the master of this wall may have also discovered this problem While I was cooking again I found a wooden stick to stretch it. Ah, let me ask the master , is this okay ? The master said it 's not a big problem Wait until the wall is dry before pasting it. Cement is stable . Since the master said so Just trust the master for now. The next step is to open this small window When the time comes This small window is much smoother to open It will be opened in a short while. The window is open. You can borrow the pink wall Whitening walls is the specialty of the masters . This wall is finished. The kitchen immediately became spacious and bright Especially the windows It's so beautiful that it touches my heart How come a two- meter- wide window is only 1.96 meters wide ? I have customized the window . How to put it in ? No choice but to start over already sewn wall and sew it again Thinking of the various unreliable things of the master I suddenly feel a little worried about the wood I forgot about before . Friends , you say a window just a wooden frame and a piece of glass ? We can do it ourselves First, the old wood left over from the kitchen renovation Flatten Then cut the wood strips according to size My dad could n't stand it anymore. then I hired a carpenter from the village for 200 yuan . really Some money still needs to be earned by professionals Look at this wooden push. Can you believe he looked like this before? When it comes to splicing windows I took out the hardware I had prepared. Wildebeest connector I didn't expect the master to look down on me. He showed me the mortise and tenon technique . Wow value This 200 yuan is really worth it This is not the time for us to cook . The master has already gone to the step of installing the windows . After the window maker installed the window Let 's polish this window inside and out. Finally, install the glass and hardware on the windows . Apply some wood wax oil and the atmosphere will come out. I'm in this small room of less than 15 square meters. Installed a loft Two months ago I rented this old house in the countryside for 180 yuan I was a little scared when I first entered the room . Can only be described in three words After two months of transformation, It became like this In order to give this small room more space I made the ceiling a sloping ceiling I didn't expect that the height of this floor would reach 4.5 meters in an instant. After thinking about it I decided to install one in my room. So I immediately invited a carpenter After the master 's operation Our little attic is finally taking shape Wow Next is to build a staircase for the small attic. carpenter was making the stairs, we were also busy . Because our attic takes up half of the room There is not enough space for stairs. So we need to build a countertop at this location Make a corner for the stairs In order not to waste this space We decided to make the countertop hollow. also be used for storage later Through our unremitting efforts It looks a bit like this . But the master said he was crooked the bricks laid so neatly be crooked? My goodness, how is this deviation? So In order to After the masonry is finished, let 's ask the plasterer to come. the plasterer finishes laying the countertop? Next is to watch the carpenter 's performance This small staircase is installed The attic smell is there immediately Lying in this little attic Full of security More and more looking forward to This is what the room looks like after the renovation . Follow me and witness his changes So before we start the transformation After waiting for more than a month, Finally the door and window master is here the door and window master does when he arrives Just take down this big iron gate. Never expected hard to dismantle this big iron door . It fell directly on our entire construction team . Once this big iron door is removed It looks much better . The masters began to assemble Let's lay out the wiring . I originally planned to install open wiring So when the wall was painted , no wire trough was reserved. But the following count My dad and our masters have worked so hard . Because of my wandering thoughts Made them return a lot of work you arrange the line window master has almost knocked the door down . This small glass door is installed Our small courtyard has been changed to a rebellious son Originally, we were going to go on our own. But look at the master 's method Um Think about our previous experience of bricklaying Let professionals do professional things . We can't help in the house. Then let's move these plants in the yard. Clean it up I thought Just pick up the dead branches and leaves . I didn't expect to clear out so much garbage. It took me two hours . Just finished cleaning it up Scraping putty seems to be quite stress- relieving But it's really hard to scrape it . The masters spent two days Just scraped it all off This putty is scraped you remember what it looked like before ? Let's take a look at the comparison Follow me and witness his changes . Our house is finally just one door away from being habitable . Today, the door we have been longing for finally arrived. But when I unpacked it, This color, this texture At first, we were going to install it ourselves. But after my dad and I studied it for a long time I didn't study it clearly. So we invited a professional master in installing a door is to install the door frame . My goodness , why is this door frame only halfway there? It's come to this It's impossible to retreat. Only hard installation If you follow the normal installation method Door opening is too deep And the places that can't be wrapped don't look good either . Place the door in the middle of the doorway Cut off the excess door frame Use plasterboard on both sides . Make up this work ? Is it possible? try it and you will know When the master is cutting My heart is really bleeding this is done That's all good. If you can't do it That's really irreversible. But fortunately, the master has excellent skills The door was installed in no time . The next step is to use plasterboard to fill the door frame . After the plasterboard is repaired , Feeling good Next is to scrape the putty It's just this small area We don't want to bother the masters . Mixing putty is just adding more water and powder you add more water to the powder ? We can do it ourselves We repeated this process n times. And after successfully scrapping a barrel Finally got a bucket of smooth Glossy putty powder Putty on the wall For our 10 -year art students That's much easier . Have to say We really have some skills. Can you believe that he looked like this before? The next step is to lay wooden floors in the room. Let's look forward to it together just a dry toilet . You can imagine the taste yourself. It seems that the hard decoration of our courtyard is almost completed. So a whole new bathroom is imminent So after the bricklayer 's operation He became like this again because he wanted to disappear I bought the same insulation bricks from the Internet Let the master put it on But after this brick is put on , How could it not be No, definitely not. It must be because the master hasn't finished pasting it yet. It will look good after it is posted . You know how to use your own PUV As for the toilet , I chose a squat toilet. friends like me? I can't get it out on the toilet . The bathroom of my home has been built since its construction I have always hired workers . Please master , the speed is quite fast the last bit of ceiling work ourselves. Making the top or 's quite simple As long as you measure the size Cut out the plastic plate Then fix it to the wooden keel with screws. That's it From day to night Finally, the ceiling is finished. 's check the progress together . uh uh yeah yeah kuis I invited a master to paint the cement in our kitchen. Putty on We invited a stove master to build a stove for us. This small stove together The feeling of the kitchen comes immediately So the wall tiles I bought are the same checkered bread tiles The countertop tiles I bought are pure white matte tiles . the master put the bricks on This effect The partition wall below was originally intended to be tiled But we didn't buy enough tiles. So I decided to paint it with cement and then scrape it white. Although we haven't been fans before But before, when the masters were painting the walls After more than 10 days of observation I think I can too Mainly to save budget painting the wall , you need to use a board to build a membrane. Make sure the corners of the wall are straight This is called professionalism Then apply cement . Why can't I get up there? I remembered When the masters were painting the walls There is water spraying on the wall Sure enough, it was much easier to apply after spraying water Although the one we painted is a bit ugly But it's not a big problem . After the cement dries a little Just scrape it smooth . After our unremitting efforts I have finally reversed it . The next step is to scrape the putty . I am the master . I want someone to care about me Have to say We really have two brushes Next Steps Let's plan to make a cabinet door ourselves. Let's look forward to it together. I installed a suspended ceiling and opened a skylight in the room. Installed a small attic also made a minimalist frameless door I can move in soon . But after painting Well may take some time before check-in. Tried many ways I didn't even get the paint off . So I bought the wallpaper . I plan to cover all these beams with wallpaper . Measure the size first Cut the wallpaper to the appropriate size Then just stick it on the beam. This wallpaper I won't tell anyone that it's fake. Then add the other two rooms . After pasting it , it immediately becomes advanced I just feel that this staircase doesn't match the beams. Next time , let 's change the color of this staircase. Let's look forward to it together Let 's grind the stairs . Then brush it with wood wax oil Without further ado Use 60 mu sandpaper to sand the first time Where angle grinders cannot reach Manual grinding Then apply 320 sandpaper and polish for the second time This is the second time After polishing , it is very smooth. But when I check in later , I want to go upstairs barefoot This needs to be sanded again with 600- step sandpaper . I was covered in dust after polishing the stairs. I really can't stand it anymore Today, I will stop here I will continue grinding tomorrow. Third time After sanding, you can apply wood wax oil After applying wood wax oil I feel like the changes are huge It has become more textured After the color darkens It also matches my roof beam better. The express delivery is getting better . Next time , let's decorate the attic . Let's look forward to it together Month ago bathroom in our yard. And dry and wet separation The bathroom is available But it is really inconvenient to keep the door locked when going to the toilet I originally wanted to decorate the attic first . But think about it later Installing a door for the bathroom is the most important thing Let 's install the door today . To save budget iron door that I had removed from the old house. Modify it and install it in the bathroom First, grind off the rust on the door. Clean it up Then paint it with metallic paint This is the effect after the first brush. After it dries, apply a second coat there After brushing, you can't see the previous appearance at all. You can install it tomorrow after it dries. The door is installed. But why does this not look good? So I pulled out my secret weapon This is my treasured treasure. add some color to this door. Without further ado Start learning your talent right away I finally finished painting it from day to night. Let's take a look at the effect read the goody down day sir Today we finally ushered in the last step of hard installation That is painted wood floor Because we've never laid it before. So I decided to try the attic first . mat on first Then cut the wood board according to the size The next step is to put the wooden boards together . Then I kept hitting it with a small hammer. when we thought everything was going smoothly Here comes the problem A small piece of the wall still has a crack no matter how it is lifted The most annoying thing is that the corners of the wall are actually warping I took it apart and repaired it again. Still tilted The master has already pasted more than half of it. Then let's clean up these uneven places on the ground. Pry it off These raised cement blocks in the corners also need to be removed After cleaning the room It's time for the masters to take the stage Let 's clean up this mess on the ground. This time the hard decoration of our house is completed. Next is the soft furnishing part. Let's look forward to it together I have been in Xiaoyuan for more than two months. These two months We have always lived with relatives two kilometers away. Let 's decorate the attic today. When the master was laying the baseboard before moving in Time is too tight The edges of the attic are not paved . Let's lay it out first. After cutting the wooden floor to size Glue it with structural glue It looks much more comfortable after laying it out . Then clean up the sanitation After cleaning my new mattress upstairs . Because our loft is too low. The bed can't fit. Just put the mattress directly I advise everyone to buy a mattress Be sure to distinguish the front and back before disassembling Otherwise you'll be like me It 's too much effort to turn him over . So comfortable newly bought four-piece set is also laid out Put down a blanket Assemble the bedside table bought online Put it next to the bed Put the books you like to read on the shelf And my trendy toys Put some small ornaments Then put on the atmosphere stickers The paintings drawn by the little sisters were also displayed Finally, let's add some green to the attic The arrangement is complete . be my little nest from now on Good night friends So now the priority is Clean up the kitchen quickly Today we will first do the floor grouting After watching many tutorials online Bought the tools and prepared to do it myself Use a wind knife to clear out all the dust in the seams. When encountering this kind of hard cement block, it is difficult to hook it out. Tilt the shovel at a 45 degree angle . It can be easily shoveled away Vacuum along all the crevices Suck them all All the dust in the gaps needs to be sucked out Apply the sealant on both sides of the gap. This step is for the subsequent production of glue Easy to clean Seam beautifier 60- degree warm water for about 20 minutes in advance. Before applying glue, you need to squeeze out 20-30 cm of unmixed waste . I saw what netizens shared Angle between the plastic box and the ground About 60 degrees is the most suitable This way the glue will be fuller. was full of confidence before the fight. my eyes would hurt when I played. The hands don't So the glue that comes out is kind of um, terrible . Run the seam pressing tool along the seam This step is easier . After waiting for the glue to dry overnight You can use a spatula to scrape off the excess glue . Shoveling is really stress-relieving. After scraping off all the glue The seam is finished . Although you can still see a little bit of seam But I can make this effect Already very satisfied Next time we will DIY a cabinet door Let's look forward to it together Since the renovation of the old house I have done many things that I never imagined before. I used to think these tools were dangerous. Very scared Now it's just a piece of cake for us . The foot pads I bought are this kind of straight curved full cover foot pads The cabinet door can just block the wooden board . After adjusting the position, you can screw in the screws . There is a gap between the two cabinet doors Just turn the screw on the foot You can make adjustments Then repeat the previous operation Install the other cabinet doors . I am from day to night Finally installed these cabinet doors Now the only thing left is this cabinet with a larger span. When I went there, I thought about installing some pots and so on . More convenient There is no separation for it But it's really hard to install cabinet doors now . We decided to make one ourselves After measuring the size Cut out 4 boards of the same size Then put the pulley on it Aluminum alloy guide rails customized from the Internet Use structural adhesive to stick it on the upper and lower sides of the cabinet Then install the cabinet doors you just made . Finally, add a small handle to it and it's done . Next is the soft furnishing of the kitchen . Let's look forward to it together First, apply the cloud mousse sticker to the stove top. Use stickers to change the color of the cabinet door There is still a big difference between posting and not posting After all the pasting The kitchen immediately becomes cozy . Then I installed my new sink . The sink is installed Let's set up the kitchen. Let's put a curtain on the window first. Build two shelves on the walls on both sides of the window Used for storage There is only one main light in our kitchen. The light is a bit insufficient a light strip along the window as auxiliary light light strip lights up The atmosphere is immediately there. Then you can put things on the table. After the seasonings and kitchen utensils are placed The soul of the kitchen is here As a coffee lover Of course, you also need to have your own coffee foot. From day to have arranged the kitchen I have always dreamed of . now My heart ca n't wait to cook . Next time , let's make our own dining table. Let's look forward to it together When the master was painting the wall By the way, I also painted the wall here pink . now he has become like this When building the bathroom in this copy bricks were laid Let's use it to build a flower bed first. After all the materials are prepared , Before I knew it, it was dark. But we have to move too much cement at one time. There is no choice but to challenge the night battle This is what it looks like after it's built. After it dries, you can hang it in white. Spend 50 bucks I bought half a bucket of real stone paint from the building materials market . Then it's like scraping putty . Scrape it against the wall After shaving all The appearance immediately became higher Then plant the plants you prepared earlier . they changed dramatically . Who could have seen him like this before? Finally, water the plants Even if the transformation is completed Let's take a look at the effect overall effect is this on the left. I still don't know what to do Friends , do you think it is good to use it to raise fish ? better to fill it with flowers? There used to be a big water tank in the yard. I think he's too much of a hindrance. So I asked the master to help smash it. Smashing the water tank Found an area under the mango tree Just good for cooling off usually tired from work. It would be really comfortable to lie under the tree Let 's clean up this area today . a braid around this piercing iron tree Clean up all the dead leaves. During the cleaning process , a large grinding wheel was found . Hey, I suddenly have an idea that is Let's make these concrete floors wider . these up . Make it spacious Then put this grinding wheel on a table and place it here Just do it So we immediately started hoeing mode But I never expected This episode is full of stones this all stone ? We really are finding work for ourselves. But I dug it all. We can only grit our teeth and persevere Look at this stone You should know It's not easy to dig this land. Some large stones for a flower bed Small stones are used to fill the ground Finally, a circle of bricks You can harden the ground. sand, stone and cement evenly Spread it on the ground Then just keep repeating this operation Busy day Finally the mortar was filled I 'm exhausted at this moment . But this is not the end You also need to use a shovel to smooth the floor surface. After it dries, wipe it down You can put the table. In the village before A large wood pile found in someone else's firewood pile Finally it came in handy Let's move it up. Table legs made of stone It means putting this big millstone on the wooden stake . But after we worked hard for a long time The wooden plate didn't move at all . no way We can only call for help. The rescue finally arrived It has to be the landlord . This is not easy A matter of a second Then we put plants all around . clean this wooden plate. Put a small stool I worked for 4 days. Finally finished it. Then let's have afternoon tea Let's reward ourselves for our hard work. Let's invite our friends to our courtyard today. Come and play There must be a gathering place . But our living room is still empty . Nothing around in the yard . We are in this area Replicate the popular silver coin bar on the Internet a lot of stones to build the bathroom . Just suitable for flooring A wheelbarrow was used to move bricks . Not only is it tiring , but it is also inefficient. This time we are smarter It can be done easily in half an hour by electric car Use white cement to surround the stone Prevent subsequent movement Kick the stones everywhere Um Not bad, not bad It has that flavor. Now all we need is a table. From the old house door panels were removed. Let's pick one to use as the desktop. this piece look so familiar? Let me think I remembered the toilet door before. Just use it First knock off the parts that are about to fall apart. Then use a power saw to cut off the excess So you get a desktop Pick a piece of wood Divide it into four Used as table legs it to the desktop with a right angle bracket This should be a prison, right? Then install the other table legs . Then Use an angle grinder to grind it inside and out After polishing, it becomes bright and beautiful It's not that toilet door panel anymore. Finally, brush it with wood wax oil The table is finished . our yard quite well. Put some chairs and it will feel like camping. The most important thing about the bar is the canopy. Hang up a night light for an atmospheric feel Just put some green plants on it and you're done . Prepare some BBQ drinks Just waiting for friends to come later cheers bought the curtain accessories from the Internet Prepare to assemble it yourself A small window plus a French window The total cost was less than 500 yuan. Friends who need to install curtains but don't have enough budget You can refer to For curtain rods search for long wooden sticks Not only worth it but also cheap A worthwhile stick . to buy this base to put the curtain rod on the wall Just search for curtain base Less than 5 bucks each usually sell curtain bases There are also curtain rings for sale . Just buy according to the number of curtain hooks I also ordered the curtains online. Compare several more Find the store with the best value for money I only spent 370 yuan on this All the windows are fixed. If you think this wooden curtain rod Installation is more troublesome You can buy this telescopic rod bought this telescopic rod for my largest floor-to-ceiling window 3 meters long for less than 30 yuan And install it much simpler and more convenient than wooden curtain rods Tried it for everyone Heavy curtains are no problem at all After all the curtains are installed The effect is pretty good I just feel like there 's something missing on the windowsill in the room. Then take the wood from the house and pile it in Find some wood planks Give it a planing Polish it Cut to the appropriate length Then join the two pieces together Apply wood wax oil Put it on the windowsill A window bar is ready. Open the windows Curtains fluttering in the wind That 's the effect I wanted . Of course you can't look out the window. Because the yard is still overgrown with weeds The bougainvillea at the door also fell over and over again. Why did it fall again? What to say today Let's put up this flower stand. from the building materials market for 270 yuan . Bought back different specifications of wood I'm going to use it to make a flower stand Of course, before that, you have to draw a blueprint first. Let's start making it according to the drawing Make the legs of the flower stand first Cut the wood according to size After determining the location Screw them together Wood joints with wildebeest is also needed. When it's done, it's like a ladder. The finished part is even simpler . After the wood is cut to size Like building blocks Put them in place one by one fix it with screws Next Steps Just put the upper and lower parts together . The connection points also need to be reinforced with wildebeest Paint it with water -based wood paint Let's stand it up and see My goodness, isn't this a bit too high? No matter what, let's plant it and try it out . Not bad, not bad Not high, just right The next step is to put the bougainvillea on the flower stand. all over my face Then our Master Lin and I tried every possible way After all the hard work Finally got this flower up there But this is not the end We still need to cut the board Then splice Screw After installing the lotus leaves, put it on the flower stand Finally, paint it with wood paint That's it ! Look forward to it together after leaving the courtyard ? We found an old wooden board. It can be used as a dining table. First use an electric planer to plan it Then use an angle grinder to grind it inside and out. After polishing, it is very smooth. Table legs ordered online Let's put it on him. After the table legs are installed A table is complete. Apply wood wax oil to it Move to the kitchen I really feel like I got a great bargain. this board for 50 bucks. Such a beautiful dining table Now that we have a dining table Don't make a meal. Let's reward ourselves for our hard work. Let's take a look at our Master Lin for us tonight ? Wow, it looks delicious . Why is this light so dim? It seems that this lamp has to be replaced . Then I'll replace it with my new high -value lamp . Not bad, not bad This light is changed I feel like the kitchen has been upgraded to a higher level. I just always feel like there's something missing in this dining table area . Well, let me think about it. I see Lack of ambient light The ugliest plate in the cupboard Let's take it out and make a hole in it. Use structural adhesive Glue it to the prepared lamp head Then install the light bulb Finish Install a wall light fixture Hang up the lamp you just made . Let 's plug in Let's take a look at the final effect So I spent a huge amount of money to buy a Roman umbrella Have to say 's expensive for a reason. This umbrella is installed. Our courtyard immediately upgraded to a higher level This is the flower pot. It seems a bit out of place Inside the pile of wood removed from the old house Pick and choose Pick out some usable wood I'm going to use them to make a flower box Before you start I have to draw a blueprint first. Previous flower stand painting Let's polish the wood first. Then cut to the appropriate size He had to cut 22 pieces of silver Responsible for polishing I'll be responsible for cutting After a busy day, Finally, I cut out the wood I needed. Finally the last piece . Harvest After sorting the cut wood You can set the location Then put the boards one by one Fix with screws The bottom is finished Then use the same method to make the side of the floral scent Side section completed the bottom and sides together It's probably like this Then nail the front and back This floral scent is ready. Finally, paint the floral scent with anti-corrosion wood paint That's it ! Feeling one is not enough We made another one Bring the fragrance of flowers to the yard Plant flowers and see the effect Not bad, not bad This is the effect I want Finally, install the atmosphere lights for the courtyard Let's check today's results together . lighting during the day I always feel that our yard lacks soul bought the antiseptic wood from the building materials market . Prepare to use them to build the platform Before that We have to level this uneven ground first. Once the ground is leveled, you can build Build the framework first The antiseptic wood is laid on the floor one by one Then punch the hole Plug the expansion sleeve and cover Fix with screws Then lay the antiseptic wood strips Also fix with screws Cut off the excess on the sides The wooden platform is ready Because I want to sit on the platform and meditate in the future So we have to polish the surface smooth . After we scrapped a set of clothes Finally got a smooth and clean wooden floor Paint it with anti -corrosion wood paint The wooden floor is done ! The window that was previously removed from the cell Let's find it out Use it to make a small coffee table Fortunately, I didn't Burn it as firewood Polish it first. Then clean it Install the table legs Fastened with wildebeest and screws Apply wood paint A small coffee table is ready. Let's put it on the wooden floor and see Perfect This is where I will meditate. Follow me the changes in the courtyard . After this We finally own a stranger's kitchenette. This is the kitchen storage . It's really hard to do. so messy no matter how I clean it up I found this shelf online. happened to be some old wooden boards. Let's make one ourselves sand off the paint on the old wood. Then trim the edges all the wood boards are processed Let's start making Measure the size Cut the board to the appropriate size The cut wood planks are put together into the shape of a wooden box Fix with screws One drawer is ready. Then let's copy two more Connect the wooden box with four wooden boards The two boxes above are tilted slightly It will look better Remove the excess Our fruit and vegetable storage rack is ready Finally, paint the rack inside and out with wood paint Finally it's finished burning Then wait for the paint to dry. The vegetable rack is almost done. Let's move it to the kitchen. Not bad, not bad With this vegetable rack Storage is much simpler How can decorating a house be associated with rural life ? That's because our house an orchard of more than one acre . The orchard has not only mango , longan, papaya, loquat fruit trees such as dragon fruit, jackfruit , etc. Take good care of these fruit trees . Plant some more vegetables From the pile of waste wood Find some usable boards Measure the size Cut to size Paint the wood in its original color Polish it off New wood paint Nail wooden keels on windowsill Then, place the newly cut wooden board Nail to wooden keel Paired with two dining bar stools A window bar is all you need Sit at the bar and enjoy the view outside the window Just don't be too comfortable This desktop is empty. If you want some food That would be even more perfect. I just bought an oven. Let's bake a pizza today . you play every night Eating delicious food Looking at the beautiful scenery This moment is just too cool our courtyard have not yet been ceilinged. the beginning I want to polish these houseboats . Keep the feeling of the old house the experience of polishing the wooden floor before I bought a 10- square-meter bamboo curtain online for 200 yuan . to make a bamboo curtain ceiling by myself I bought doesn't match the size of the eaves what to do Use 502 glue to apply to the places where you want to separate the bamboo curtains Then cut it with a knife That way it won't fall apart. If the width is too wide Can be rolled up Cutting with cutting machine Then fix the bamboo curtain to the houseboat with screws. Many netizens are curious the ceiling in our room made? Uh, this one It's not difficult actually first put a coat on all the beams Then nail the gypsum boards to the houseboat piece by piece. Finally, put putty on the gypsum board Stickers on the beams Our ceiling is finished . If you do it yourself I still recommend bamboo curtains. Because it's really simple to operate We two girls only spent one afternoon It's easy to do. The effect is still very good Compared to gypsum board I think it's more suitable for a wooden house. at last Let's check today's results together . Since we used waste wood After making a dining table Many Networks just bought it when I was renting a house in the city. It doesn't quite match our dining table. A wooden chair left by the previous landlord It just matches the height of the dining table. But one is definitely not enough . After wandering around the village for more than half a month Finally found a pair that matches The height is suitable But this style doesn't match our dining table. Let 's give him a makeover today . sand off the original paint on the wooden chair. I'd really thank you. Polish half It's raining The rain has stopped. Look! rainbow Then polish After polishing Repainted it with matte wood paint Then I took out my kraft paper rope and cut the edges After editing Let's put it on the dining table. See the effect Yeah, not bad, not bad This works perfectly But there are only two chairs There is no chair on the other side. At this time Our waste wood boards come in handy again First cut the board to the appropriate size Then polish Only three pieces of wood are needed to make a stool. Fasten it with wildebeest and screws Add a piece of wood horizontally in the middle Secondary reinforcement Fix with screws Our stool is finished . Paint him with substance paint Move to the kitchen Our dining table is ready . at last Let 's check today's results together . If you rent a yard in the countryside also comes with an orchard of more than one acre. Then you will have endless fruit to eat Bigger than my face . It's so sour, of course there's endless farm work to do. hot I can't do this job Especially the more than 50 mango trees in front of and behind our house After fertilizing , pruning and thinning It finally grew out Hmm, a bunch of ugly mangoes The main reason? We feel that we If you eat it , you don't need to use pesticides . I didn't expect it to be so ugly. The most urgent task now is to quickly compete with insects for food. Hey, the little red bag is like this Tighten the pocket The insects can't eat it. I don't believe I can't win over the bugs this time. Small mango tree Take it Take it down Take it Take it down Take it I can't carry it anymore Too hot I'm going to replenish my mango energy What is Mango Energy ? That must be the Yunnan people's own fruit. never mind Peel and slice green mango Add salt, sugar, chili powder and stir it delicious ? It's delicious. Eat sea cucumber But it was already arranged and I already lived there This is downstairs . nothing but a bed . Today we are going to decorate a Maillard bedroom. Remove the quilt first. Change the mattress When you came to play with me before A mattress I bought temporarily in town It's really too soft It's really uncomfortable for people like us with lumbar muscle strain . This time I bought this mattress after paying attention to my homework this problem at all . Because it has unique materials and designs Make the mattress Let's decorate the room. put on my newly bought four-piece suit It's comfortable, right? The sun is a bit big The rain is a bit heavy So I decided Add a roof above our windows This will provide both sun protection and rain protection . bought the materials online for less than two and a half years. Getting ready to start production Build the eaves frame first After determining the size of the eaves Start cutting the Rubik's Cube After the Rubik's Cube cutting is completed Let's start assembling You need to use three Rubik's cubes to form a right angle triangle Fix with right angle clamps and screws This is what it looks like after nailing it. Then copy two more The main body of the framework looks like this Use expansion sleeves and screws to They are fixed to the wall Well Actually , I think so too Today we're going to give him a big makeover First, put the Knock out the cement blocks left behind Then I got out my pressure washer Clean the dust on the ground Good guy , you don't know until you wash it. A wash scares There are cracks all over the ground . so We also need to use cement glue to fill the cracks After playing with the cracks You can now apply floor paint I bought this floor paint Ready to use Very convenient Waterproof and dustproof primer The window has been changed Now there are 3 left Today we picked up a transformation Don't look at me now. I'm in tatters . Big change in a short time First remove the hardware at the skylight opening . The bad parts also need to be cut off Keep the relatively complete part Then you can polish it. After polishing Clean the dust off the glass Then dry After drying, receive the wooden You can draw on it Friends, let your friends draw one too. Stop yelling What to drink ? Thanks What to drink Drink as you like gate in our yard has been blooming beautifully recently . 's put the flowers in the basket today . So I found some clues from the landlord's house. I plan to transform it into a washbasin for lunch. First remove the broken cabinet doors and drawers . It's the bookcase Such a narrow panel is definitely not enough Also want to dismantle it Then change to a wider panel Disassembled to only the frame 80 cm A bit high for an absorption cabinet Let 's remove the drawer part. Cut two new boards Countertop for laundry cabinet Use an angle grinder to clean the countertop and cabinet Polish the round panel of the cabinet After cutting, it is used to make the interlayer board of the cabinet Next you can put on new wood paint 4 pieces of glass fell on the ground Today we will use it to make a sealed and water-proof coffee table Clean the glass first and let it dry In our firewood pile Find some usable wood Then start cutting the size 12 different sized blocks in total. Then sand the wood strips clean. After sanding, apply wood paint to the wood block was taken over by my cat. I can't get rid of it no matter how hard I try. To get my coffee table back So I found the materials a cat climbing frame like this for my cat. Deal with the dead branches first. Hey, don't say that This bark is really hard to peel off We changed 3 tools It took two hours to peel off the bark . The broadcast is over But the branches have become numb and rotten . So I still use an angle grinder Polish it all over. Finished branches Let's deal with the base. The same is also peeling bark and grinding grandfather Do n't scratch our cat . Secure the pedals to the rack with wildebeest and mousse Cut a groove in the tree trunk Install the space capsule I bought online Here it looks like a cat is standing Randomly grab a kitten Experience it Old boards and blueprints stolen from the old house Add a wooden board to the turtle that has been touched After cutting, just grab a pickle randomly Let's give the wood a SPA I really like old models. The older my daughter gets, the more upset she becomes. After sucking the thumb dry Let 's start assembling . assembling now such a foot washing area at home I don't know how to use it special too difficult . There are still many So we participate ourselves Added wooden planks If you don't have a wooden board at home Can hold the size chart Go online to find manufacturers for customization After the board is ready They also need to be painted wood. After drying, you can start assembling . According to the drawing Separate the long hair into the secondary dirty area and the hanging area Connect the longboard and shortboard together Fasten with long boards and screws After the connection is completed, it looks like this Take advantage of it Ask me to buy it for my family in the countryside are going to do today is I want to buy a model bookcase today First remove the hardware near the box. Then there are traces of time left on the surface of the box. Polish all clean Cut the middle of the door 10 minutes mechanical head and body Draw eyes and mouth on the head Add a partition in the middle of the cabinet Reinstall the cabinet doors superior At this time, the robot was introduced again. Cut out the robot's arm from wood This is not right, I 'd better do it myself . Just before, the master said There are still some leftover wood blocks in the warehouse Today we will play with wooden block decorative painting First use sandpaper to smooth the surface of the wood block . after the big devil is really beautiful To make it more textured Need to apply a layer of wood paint While the air is drying, let 's make a background board. You are the leftover feed from the previous ceiling project , right? I'm just a Han