It is perhaps one of the most reviled moments in that it single handedly killed a beloved 15 years later, and I'm here to say that Hello Internet! Welcome to Film Theory, the show have to be snakes? So are you all hype for Indiana has definitely struggled to find its footing in when it was first introduced back in the 1980s, Steven Spielberg and movie star Harrison Ford. time. You had the guy behind Star Wars, and one of Hollywood's hottest, most recognizable how could you not? They were perfect action the world exploring tombs, punching Nazis and The Indiana Jones trilogy was rock solid, and I when Indy and his friends literally rode off thereby cementing this character's legacy the shameless cash grab. Greed gonna Lucas Spielberg and Ford teamed up for Indiana Bring in Indy out of retirement to play the hits, with his first love and introducing him to his He chose... Poorly Now, to say that fan reception to Kingdom of the Crystal Skull was mixed would be Watching it again today with fresh eyes I don't people said at the time. But it's certainly mid, of all, just lost the spirit of the original Skull was where the franchise jumped the shark, silly, too irreverent, too unrealistic. the fact that Lucas and Spielberg were suddenly be done practically. Yeah, I think that was what with some of these guys. All of a sudden, this than the old serials that they were inspired by. monkeys, a guy gets eaten alive by ants, aliens you heard me. Mind. Bullets. But of them all, one died, the moment that it went past the point the fridge scene. Since this movie was released spared from this. Let me explain. At the climax run from several Soviet spies at a U.S. military hide from the Russkies, but soon realizes that filled with mannequins, not people. If you've ever recognize this as a doomtown; a fake neighborhood how atomic bombs affect the average American. Indy hears an alarm blaring in the distance. in a conveniently lead lined refrigerator to bomb goes off, he's blasted away from Ground the blast radius to pose for a real cool shot Yeah, I don't know about you, but I can audience's suspension of disbelief. Surviving being a refrigerator? Yeah. It was so ridiculous than jumping the shark, nuking the fridge. In realized that this was just too much, with blame for this, quote, silly scene back in 2011. a New York Times interview that he was the one who Lucas drafted up a six inch thick dossier The odds of surviving that refrigerator Of course, that dossier has never been you know me loyal theorists. I can't just take a bold claim like, Oh, Indy would have survived need to run the numbers. So let's just end this survived nuking the fridge? I'm going to be 100% you. But even more surprising than the answer is and tip those fedoras. It's time to swing into it. fridge and our bomb. The type of fridge standalone refrigerator. But since this was a obviously there wasn't any hard information we pulled out our classic theorist pixel rulers one inch tall. Using that information, I roughly 4.69 feet or 143 centimeters tall We're going to be assuming that it's even rectangular prism. Older fridges like with either asbestos or fiberglass. The like this was about one inch, so we're going That being said, we should also mention that shot saying that the fridge is, quote, lead lined ridiculous for a home refrigerator, which we're But for now, we're just going to run with it. about, let's talk about the other main factor Though it's easy to think that a nuke is a nuke instantly vaporize anyone. That isn't necessarily Boy a point. Though you'd be hard pressed to you're a little bit away from it, even as close impossible. For as much as we think of dropping decimation of a city. Hundreds of thousands and Nagasaki. So it can be done. There's just a So, just how powerful is the bomb that we see in thanks to military records. Kingdom of the Crystal to be the exact time and place where the U.S. a series of 29 explosive nuclear tests with underground and as we see in the movie, in want to test bombs in the air with balloons and that militaries will maximize the destructive bomb's energy is distributed over a wider area, damage on the ground. This is a concept known as bombs were detonated over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Jones was on a tower, this then narrows down and shape of the mushroom cloud in the film the explosion most closely resembles that from of 44 kilotons. That's equal to 44,000 tons of Additionally, the Smoky test occurred right Given the comically large 51 on the hangar obviously supposed to take place there. So it's his way to the Smoky detonation site through Also, I couldn't find any evidence of during the experiments. It seems like something going to be taking data from doomtowns used in for these tests were built approximately one but again, lines up nicely with what we So now that we know all of that, it's time When it comes to death by atomic bomb, there are heat of the explosion, the blast wave that the behind. So let's just start off with the heat. ton of thermal radiation. Like, a lot-a lot. can reach temperatures equivalent to the degrees Celsius. But the further away you get heat becomes and it falls off fast. According miles or 3.21 kilometers of the explosion would That said, if you were, say, inside of a building that, it would actually be far less intense and Akiko Takakura survived the Hiroshima bombing bomb's hypocenter. Much, much closer than her 5280 How did she get so lucky? She was actually the building shielded her from the worst of want more proof from an even more applicable Apple two bomb in 1955, a Frigidaire chest freezer 0.89 miles or 1.43 kilometers from ground zero. the damage, they found that the freezer and when they later plugged the freezer in, it still the nuke. So all in all, it is feasible that Indy So what then about the actual forces and these sorts of incredibly powerful explosion tends to work in three stages. which is the initial shock wave that radiates of the three. Then you have yourself the dynamic that blows things away in all the videos that you This is caused by air literally being pushed explosion. The dynamic overpressure is by we have the receding flow, another gust of wind in to fill the temporary vacuum created by the So how powerful would these blast waves be for a the worst of it would be in the range of 0.81 psi, resulting in wind blasts up to 500 miles an once you're outside of that zone, things drop off doomtown is a bit outside the range, one mile five psi. Resulting in blast winds that are 163 get me wrong, that is still the equivalent nearly five times less what it could have been. wave have launched the refrigerator like we see the movie. In the movie, the fridge is launched so sent it flying in the first place. That right in general would the acceleration have rocketed that number we're going to need to figure out the the explosion. And to do that, we use the classic acceleration. If we switch that equation around a by mass. Thankfully, we can figure out both the the film. So let's just start off with mass. 250 lbs or 113 kilograms. Indy was roughly 60 and the average weight of a 60 year old man But we also have to remember that this one is lined with lead for that superior If there was a one inch sheet of lead on every 3717 lbs or 1686 kilos right there, totaling out the steel and Indy inside of it. Yeah, all lbs refrigerator is just a wee bit ridiculous. 1/10th of an inch of lead lining for this of 817 lbs or 370 and a half kilograms. Spoiler difference. For force, we found the number using I'm not going to bore you with all the numbers you see on screen right now for force with drag, In the end, the fridge experiences the equivalent Ironically, the immense weight of a lead saves him. Even with our much, much smaller lining number, the G-forces Indy experiences a bit higher than some intense roller coasters. easily. Fighter pilots are trained to withstand up G-forces this high would absolutely be fatal. The movie, likely not enough to actually kill But ultimately, it seems like the forceful So that is surprisingly two for two. But then bombs release an intense amount of radiation without any protection. This might actually situation. Though thin amounts of lead are able to Even a foot of lead would be unable to completely released by these sorts of atomic bombs. That's is impossible for Indy. See, the most deadly in a very small area. And according to NukeMap, Smoky explosion would have only been within 1.59 distance that Indy's fridge starts at. from Ground Zero by the blast wave, he would Indy and the fridge starting out inside of a house Frigidaire freezer that survived the blast of like I said, there was food inside And when scientists examined the food, they found the food was declared safe for human consumption that the building it was in took the brunt of the to be fair, the building was made of concrete, of more traditional stuff like woods and metals. radiation. Without a doubt, Indy would have developing cancer later on in his life at plausible that he survived the radiation too. So, it. But George Lucas wasn't entirely wrong here. nuclear explosion inside of a refrigerator like a lot of things would have needed to go Indy's very stupid scene. But by the numbers, say it be 50/50" thing is kind of plausible. would still be guaranteed to die. No, the nuclear refrigerator would have. See, refrigerators used airtight, to keep the contents inside colder and someone were to spend any extended amount of time This right here is known as refrigerator death. modern refrigerators use magnetism to keep their first hitting the market, it was a massive public using mechanical latches on the outside of the from the outside using that latch. especially when children would hide inside there were 54 reported cases of children becoming those, 39 died of asphyxiation. This led to decades of public service announcements warning Even G.I. Joe got in on the action. Eventually, this outcry led the American Act of 1956, making it illegal to manufacture the inside. And so you can probably it's more likely than not that this fridge able to open from the inside, turning this Now, before some of you call out that Kingdom the Refrigerator Safety Act was passed one fridge in the country didn't just immediately you'll see that the changeover on the fridges a full year after the events of the movie. the fridge, proving that it was one of these better chance at surviving an atomic blast than radiation and blast waves in the world that fridge and shut the door, he was a dead man. math in today's episode. We even had to cut a lot there are ways to understand this stuff without test it yourself. One of the best ways to do a free and easy way to learn all about STEM taking stories that you love and then use them to breaking down these really daunting topics with running away from a boulder. Brilliant is doing learning experience with interactive content that range from basic algebra and logic puzzles to Above all, though, Brilliant just wants to help aggressive they might be. Brilliant is quick and So whether you're a student with an already to ruins across the world, Brilliant can help someone with something to do basically every Brilliant's approach. I found their physics of up on how everything from toilets and fridges work So if you want to check out all the offer all for free for the next 30 days, check out the top line of the description. Again, that is the link so you don't have to spell it all out. get themselves 20% off. Brilliant's annual Brilliant. And remember guys it's all just