June 1941. German Army But at the powerful naval the Germans encounter Originally produced this is the story of Russia's and the Red Army's long road 13th July 1941. Soviet DB-3s dropped their bombs and turned for home. The target was hidden by low cloud. But the high-explosive had found its mark. Romania was Hitler's main source of oil. Now just three weeks into this crucial supply line was under attack. The Unirea oil refinery The flames could be seen for many miles. Romanian oil facilities by bombers of the Soviet Black Sea Fleet, The Crimean peninsula had barely been But now it was giving Hitler On 23rd July 1941, which gave increased priority to the On 12th August, he gave orders to occupy he declared, posed a great threat The Soviet bomber crews had caught German forces were now heading south The first weeks of the war But in one arena, they had reason The Soviet Black Sea Fleet was It included 1 battleship, 5 cruisers, There was no fleet to rival it It was commanded by the 42-year Oktyabrsky joined the Russian navy he'd gone as far as to change meaning October, He'd commanded the Black Sea In the summer of 1941 Stalin issued and demanding they hold Most had little effect. But at the Black Sea port of Odessa, The defence was led by which would soon be under the Petrov began his military career By 1941 he was a Major General commanding named after its legendary Within weeks, Petrov would be promoted to command of the Independent The first battles for the city against the advancing 4th Romanian Army. The Romanian generals thought But Soviet soldiers and civilians had been They had dug more than 100 miles Odessa would mount a stubborn defence, while it was kept supplied by In September, Romanian troops and began shelling the harbour. Supported by amphibious landings they routed two enemy divisions. The siege lines were driven back As the Coastal Army prepared to carry it received dramatic new orders. "Soldiers and their commanders who have shall be evacuated Von Manstein's 11th Army and was about to cut-off the Erich von Manstein with a long history of military service. He was seriously wounded in the but went on to become In 1940, he devised the plan He came to be regarded as one Von Manstein was poised to break the gateway to the peninsula. including the main Black Sea To try to save Sevastopol, Leaving behind a small rearguard, approximately 90,000 soldiers were They left leaflets addressed "We're leaving our beloved Odessa, Those miserable killers, those Fascist We will be back soon, comrades!" At dawn on 16th October, That evening, German troops advanced through the Crimea, As they rested, shells suddenly Dozens of vehicles caught fire. They were under attack from dubbed by the Germans Fort Maxim Gorky I. Batteries Number 30 and 35 were Each battery had two turrets, They had originally been built for Construction of the batteries began in 1912, they weren't completed until 1936. Electric engines were used to load A light railway carried the half-ton shells Only the towers, protected were visible above ground. The rest of the battery was housed in It included storage rooms for ammunition, sleeping quarters, The battery was commanded As the Germans continued their advance, Soviet troops retreated south along the Yalta highway, and to Sevastopol. Marines, supported by the heavy They bought crucial time These included the Coastal and Fleet Commander Sevastopol's defences The first covered the harbour at Balaklava. The third, the central And the fourth, the road from Bakhchisaray. Wounded soldiers and civilians On 6th November, the steamer 'Armenia' In the chaos of the evacuation, many passengers were not entered The next day at noon, she was attacked The Armenia sank in just four minutes. From an estimated 7,000 passengers, an escort vessel picked up Franz Halder, recorded in his diary that the assault and last no more than 5 days. But summer rains intervened Von Manstein had decided to make his main At first sight the Yalta highway The open country on either side of the That was why the Soviets But Von Manstein knew his artillery would dominate the harbour. With no more supplies arriving by sea, Realizing that Sevastopol the Soviets planned to land troops at Kerch, and at Feodosia. The landings would be led They would seize the ports, and clear Two days before the landings, the Germans They made rapid advances. The Stavka High Command received "Should further attacks the Sevastopol garrison can hold out Desperate measures were required. The 79th Brigade was immediately At Sevastopol, warships bombarding German positions The Germans were finally This was the name the Germans held by the 365th Anti-Aircraft Battery. It was not a real fort, although the for its four 76 millimetre The Germans had nicknames They included the GPU, the Cheka, Some of these defences dated Grygory Zamekhovskiy was at Fort Stalin. "A detachment of sailors was formed We fought the German infantry hand to hand combat inside the barbed wire. Most of our detachment was killed'. Sacrifices such But the situation remained critical. The Germans could break through It was where all reinforcements To break the stranglehold, Advance detachments landed But they were able to secure Four days later, a risky night-time A Soviet submarine laid navigational Then it turned on its searchlights A small raiding party led the way. They captured the lighthouse Now the rest of the landing But one last obstacle remained: the boom Feodosia's boom was a floating A Soviet submarine had made a night-time It had been tightly shut. A boat was supposed to blow up the barrier. But its commander He was two hours late, It was a dereliction of duty for which The entire operation was in jeopardy. Only then was it discovered The first Soviet craft surged into the bay. The signal went up. The German commander, believed his forces were about The Germans abandoned the Kertch peninsula. For his decision, Von Sponeck, would later be court martialled and shot. The landings had exactly Von Manstein was forced to suspend He even had to give up ground. Von Manstein "It was perfectly clear that it was to the endangered areas. Von Manstein's 11th Army The Soviets withdrew to a new defensive The loss of Feodosia prompted to send its own representative The man they chose was Usually the Stavka sent a senior general, a fanatical Bolshevik His presence undermined and threatened chaos Over the Black Sea, nine German torpedo The transport ship "Svanetti" She carried wounded soldiers and refugees. Her skipper successfully But he couldn't dodge them all. In 1941 in the Black Sea, the Germans sunk 23 Soviet ships Luftwaffe air attacks were proving lethal. Most dangerous of all was Werner Baumbach, He led an elite bomber squadron and had recently transferred Without adequate fighter protection, In just two months, German aircraft available to the Crimean Front. For the new year, 1942, was to capture the Soviet oil fields But first he would have to eliminate Otherwise his southern flank was exposed. "The main task of Army Group South and take Sevastopol, To achieve this, von Manstein was reinforced He would also be supported commanded by Wolfram von Richthofen. This unit was considered when it came to close air support. The German offensive was codenamed , Meanwhile in the Kerch Peninsula, Soviet soldiers were digging a second The commander of the 44th Army had given But under pressure from Commissar Mekhlis, General Kozlov put an Instead the men were told to prepare Neither Kozlov nor Mekhlis were discouraged Their offensive was set for 20th May. Meanwhile a Croatian Luftwaffe He warned of an imminent German attack. General Kozlov expected the attack where he'd positioned the 51st Army. Half his tanks were also dug in An advance along the Black Sea shore So only the weak 63rd Rifle Division The Germans assault boats approach For a while the landings were held up But only until they ran out fuel. Then the main barrage began. German artillery targeted the minefields They blew lanes through them, through which Meanwhile the 8th Air Corps Once the Germans broke through the Kozlov had spared his men Now they had no protection Chaos and panic soon took hold. On the second morning of the battle, Von He was, on a smaller scale, which had led to the Fall of France. After breaking through to the Soviet rear, trapping the Soviet 47th army. It seemed that the battle But on 9th May Soviet armour fought back, Late at night, Kozlov They proposed to withdraw to a new But Stalin was not optimistic. "If you manage to reach we'll consider that quite an achievement". Soviet units withdrew along the shore But the Germans were first They followed on the heels of hidden in the clouds of dust. The Germans launched an immediate Now the Crimean Front was ordered around Kerch itself. In the open terrain, the Red Army The losses were terrible. At the outskirts of Kerch, the Germans were briefly held up as T-26 The guns of the Black Sea Fleet joined in. But unlike Sevastopol, The Germans entered the city, driving Soviet survivors Their only hope now lay in across the 6 mile-wide Gulf of Taman. Every available boat or barge "Dunka's Fleet" - the soldiers called it. But here, there was to be In the face of a merciless 120,000 troops got away. Many more did not. There weren't enough boats. Most of those who tried to swim As the Crimean Front collapsed, 6th May 1942. The German bombardment A heavy shell had smashed through the roof It was soon repaired... Enormous shells were raining down 2 metres in length, They came from two giant mortars, The 600 millimetre guns had been Now they had come to Sevastopol. Their shells could smash through three or 450 millimetres of steel plate. They mortars took 10 minutes to reload. But the Germans had brought The railway gun 'Dora' and remains the largest gun ever It was manned by an artillery which included transport units, gunners, Its firing position was prepared Assembly and preparation Dora fired 48 shells during the siege. It destroyed an ammunition store Dora was in action for 13 days, before At that moment, 11th Army contained Von Manstein believed it was a record: "In general during the Second World War, Germany never used as much artillery As the siege went on, ammunition became For the defenders of Sevastopol, There weren't enough ships The orders were to hold out at all costs. There were few illusions An immense German bombardment Thor and Odin fired 54 shells But they failed to destroy the turrets. The Luftwaffe flew 1,400 sorties. But German infantry advancing were only able to advance It cost them dearly - Witnesses described the whole horizon The German onslaught was unsustainable. Von Richthofen's bombers His pilots had strict orders The artillery magazines were almost empty. On the night of 9th June, the 345th Rifle Division. Supported by fire they were able to stem the German advance. But four days later, disaster struck. As the transport ship Georgia bringing reinforcements and ammunition, Massive explosions quickly sent her The loss of men, and 500 tons of Vice Admiral Oktyabrisky "The shortage of men and ammunition On 13th June, Manstein was able which had held up the German It had not fallen until three of its Von Manstein convinced Hitler He persuaded Hitler to give him and not to redeploy The main German summer offensive could not start until Sevastopol fell. Its garrison's bitter resistance But step by step, On 17th June, the Germans The minefields were destroyed by artillery, and the infantry were able The gunners withdrew underground. before Battery Commander Major Aleksander to blow up the turrets and the generators. The next day the Germans broke in Aleksander and a few others But while dressed as a civilian, Major Aleksander was taken to a prison The Germans had reached the North Shore. It meant no more supplies or reinforcements The cruiser 'Comintern', en route But at Kazacha, Kamyshova, submarines and small craft Douglas DC-3s of the were used to ferry out the wounded. "Thousands of wounded lay at the airfield. A pilot would point to those "How many eyes looked at them At most, the aircraft could bring But Sevastopol needed On 26th June, the submarine S-32 and mortar shells. Southwest of Yalta The explosion was seen 20 miles away. Soviet defences in the north had collapsed, In the south, the German 30th Corps on the Sapoun Heights. In his memoirs, "The obvious way out of that situation was to redirect the main blow But redeploying an infantry division to the south would have taken many days, giving the enemy time to rest What's more, Manstein had lost which had finally been redeployed north. Perhaps Sevastopol would make it after all. The sailors were building a jetty It would be complete in just a few days. Reinforcements and ammunition At 2 a.m. on 29th June, from Sevastopol's North Shore. Under cover they crossed the bay Suddenly the Germans were behind Von Manstein Crossing the bay had been The same night, Von Manstein launched over the Sapoun Heights. These twin blows led to the total collapse Small units fought on, but were increasingly Stalin ordered key personnel That evening Vice Admiral Oktyabrskiy Other senior officers As they boarded in full view of hundreds a riot looked likely. Shots were fired, injuring a Marine officer That night the submarine left on the eastern shore of the Black Sea. Some commanders chose Chief of Staff Kobalyuk of the Coast Guard Colonel Mikhaylov gave up and was killed near Sevastopol. Colonel Rubtsov, commander of an NKVD and shot himself rather General Petrov tried to shoot himself but was prevented by those around him. Those left behind felt doomed, As many as 80,000 men -- now faced death, or the horrors But some refused to give up. They put to sea in whatever boats remained, One group of sailors built a raft Many rafts were sunk by German fire. But this one made it to the open sea. After a few hours it was met by After taking the survivors on board But heavy German fire meant At dawn, the patrol boats picked up Then they turned back to Novorossiysk. In two years these soldiers In May 1944, it would be German hoping to sail them to Romania. The Red Army would come to settle a score, and exact a bloody revenge