You want to learn jazz guitar, but you don't want to waste practice time. So let's start with some things that you should not spend time on in the beginning. Don't learn modes because most jazz is not modal. It's not about isolated chords next to each other. It's about harmony flowing through a song or progression. Don't learn full arpeggio positions because most jazz lines use one octave arpeggios. So that's also what you want to practice. And this also explains why you don't want to practice arpeggio inversions. You don't really need them. Practice the things that you can use in your solos. Now, I already saved you a year of technique practice and you haven't played a note yet, but let's look at what you should be doing in your practice. I'll explain this first using arpeggios and then move it over to chords as well. Jazz is often made way too complicated with a lot of theory. And instead, you want to know a bit of basic theory and how it all fits together because that's incredibly powerful. You'll see what I mean. I just told you not to practice arpeggio positions, but how do you then practice arpeggios? Now, one thing that's very difficult with learning jazz is that you practice all these separate things like scales, arpeggios, and licks, and then you have to spend a lot of time getting it all to fit together. Let me show you a gigantic shortcut for this, something that I learned from Barry Harris. In jazz, the arpeggios that make up the harmony are the seventh chords. Those are the basic chords that you'll see in the songs that you want to play. Now, later in this video, I'm gonna show you how to connect several arpeggios to each chord. Here's a systematic and easy step-by-step way to start learning them. An arpeggio is a part of a scale, so start by just practicing the scale. Chords and arpeggios are built by stacking third intervals in the scale. So to ease into playing arpeggios, practice playing those third intervals, which is this exercise. And if you stack two third intervals, then you get a basic triad, which is the first basic chord that you want to check out. And now, adding another third on top gives you the seventh chords, and you're just gradually getting them into your fingers step-by-step. Like this, you can play all the seventh chord arpeggios in the scale, and you can go through this process with any scale that you want to use. You should also try to play through the arpeggios of the songs or chord progressions to have an overview of them for when you're soloing. And of course, work on combining arpeggios with the scale and other vocabulary, which is how you want to end up using them in your solos. Here, I'm adding an enclosure and a chromatic run to a Cmaj7 arpeggio. I have another video that really digs into how to make licks by starting with an arpeggio. I'll link to that in the video description, but another essential point is to have more arpeggios that you can use over each chord, which is very efficient since you're anyway practicing all the arpeggios. Let's look at that. In the beginning, you want to focus on making lines with the arpeggio of the chord itself. So for a 2-5-1, you want to use the arpeggios of each chord. The basic exercise will be this. And then you take that material and work on turning that into jazz licks, which could give you something like this. There are only so many things that you can do with one arpeggio for each chord, and it's difficult to make many great-sounding lines. But luckily, there are more options for arpeggios. To understand how the other arpeggios work, you need to understand why arpeggios work in the first place. Now, luckily, that's pretty simple. If you're soloing over a Dm7 chord and you use the Dm7 arpeggio, then you're using the same notes as the chord you're playing over. And that's, of course, why that sounds good. With that logic, it's pretty easy to find other arpeggios that also work. You need arpeggios that have a lot of notes in common with the chord and also add other notes that sound good over the chord. I'm gonna show you four types of this. Some of them work most of the time, some of them only in a few places, and then one that really sounds great but pretty much only works for one chord. But then that's probably Barry Harris' favorite arpeggio. After that, I'm gonna apply this to chords. of course as well. If you look at the notes of a C major seven arpeggio, so C, E, G, and B, then you can see that the diatonic arpeggio from the third of the chord, E, is an E minor seven arpeggio, E, G, B, and D, and here you have three notes in common with the C major seven, because the three top notes of C major seven are E, G, and B, and then you're adding the D, which is a ninth on top of the major seven, but the ninth is a great sound on a major seven chord, so you have. So this is a great arpeggio to use in your solos. You could play something like this. This works for all the chords in the 2-5-1, so D minor seven to G seven to C major seven. Now I'm gonna discuss some examples where it's less effective in a bit, but for that 2-5-1, you get over the D minor seven, an F major seven arpeggio, over the G seven, you get B half-diminished, and as you already saw, over C major seven, you have the E minor seven. And now you can mix the different arpeggios, making it easier to make lines that flow, something like this. The chords where using the arpeggio from the third is more difficult are the ones where the ninth in the scale doesn't sound good on the chord. So that would be E minor seven and B half-diminished, which both have a flat nine. That doesn't mean that it's impossible to use them, but it's not where you want to start. Instead, let's just look at some other options. With the arpeggio from the third, you're using the arpeggio that shares the three top notes of the chord, but you can also sometimes use the one that shares the lowest three notes. And this works really great for a C major seven, so. The arpeggio that will share the three lowest notes would be A minor seven, so A, C, E, and G, which of course shares C, E, and G with C major seven. And you can use that in a line like this. This is the arpeggio from the sixth of the chord, and that works the best on major seven chords in the scale. So an A minor seven arpeggio over C major seven, and a D minor seven arpeggio over F major seven. It gets complicated with the other chords. The next one is great for both the two and the five chords, and also has melodic motion built in, which is a really nice effect. And then we of course still need to check out Barry Harris' favorite arpeggio. After the arpeggio from the third of the chord, exploring the next note in the chord, the fifth, makes a lot of sense. Now here you have a few useful options. The most common ones are for the two and the five chords, and the arpeggios do one thing really well. They target the third of the chord. So notice how the A minor seven arpeggio is really framing the F on the two chord, D minor seven. And also how the D minor seven arpeggio is really framing the third B on the G seven chord. Keep in mind that I'm not thinking of these arpeggios as substitutions. It's really useful to start thinking strange chord progressions that are anyway not what you're hearing in the music. So get used to using the other arpeggios as something that goes on top of the chord, which I think is also how, for example, Barry Harris describes them. I think that makes a lot more sense. And of course, if you don't agree and you wanna shout at me about minor conversion, there's a comment section as well. One of the arpeggios that Barry Harris talks about and uses quite often is the arpeggio on the flat seven of the dominant. And this is of course not exclusive to him. Most people use this one quite often. And in this key, that's an F major seven arpeggio over the G seven chord. And that's the foundation of a lot of Charlie Parker and Josh Benson licks as well. Applying these principles to chords only works when you're using complete four note chords. So it's not useful for things like shell voicings, but it's really great for stuff like drop two voicings. So if you take a two, five, one with basic drop two voicings as a starting point, then that gives you this. And here you can also use the voicings from the third of each chord in the progression, which would then give you a ninth as an extension. So on the D minor seven, you can use an F major seven voicing like this. And in the context, that's going to sound like a D minor seven with a nine. Now the chord on the third of G seven is B half diminished. And the chord on the third of the C major seven is E minor seven. And that gives you this much more colorful progression. So you can also reuse voicings from different chords and in that way, not spend time learning them as new grips in the same way that you can get a lot more out of the diatonic arpeggios that you practiced in the scale. The important thing then becomes that you develop your skills in making the arpeggios into jazz licks, adding scale melodies, chromatic notes and enclosures, all the building blocks that make it sound like jazz. And that is what I talk about in this video, which will give you a good overview of what to learn and more importantly, how to use it. Check it out, learn jazz, make music.