The Bog Witch is here!A brand new NPC in Valhiem potions, and new feasts but are far from the only most broadly impactful patch since hearth and home Lets dive in! Found in the swamp, the bog witch is discoverable but this time with a round cauldron you will see a friendly greydwarf outside who as found inside accompanied by her broom mate I'd have to warn you against attacking it Once interacting with the witch you will find recipes and useful items available for gold. I their costs, use cases, and how to unlock them video description with all the information about use case for the items found here are feasts, system like the hearth and home update before it. is that it is as forward looking as it is backward late game. The ingredient required to craft each witches shop following the defeat of the biomes after defeating a serpent. As explained, each Whole Roasted Meadows Boar Followed by the Black A Hearty Mountains Logger's Stew, The Plains The Ashlands Gourmet Bowl and finally, for the and the newly added feasts can be crafted and stands after purchasing the Serving Tray for 140 a menu with tabs associated with the consumable foods, meads, and feasts from your inventory. consumed a total of 10 times to keep both you and great buffs to your stats like previous foods, a whopping 50 minutes long! But now you might In short, the cauldron received significant it and two new cooking stations in the food uncooked food recipes will be found at the table, the kitill, including, the new potions covered finewood, and leather scraps while the kitill, And that is not all! Multi-crafting has been instances of the same item!. When at a crafting of your choice, granted you have the resources to to food as all crafting stations now have many of the bog witches ingredients enable the kitill, and fermented as with existing meads. In a mysterious 8th which is purchasable and covered go...well...BEZERK!. With this mead popped you take BUT get a massive reduction in stamina usage This thing is BONKERS but is high risk, high unlike most other meads, its effect lasts a mere might be my personal favorite granting a 15% your run skill by 10. Imagine this combined granting you mad hops in the Lightfoot Mead usage while jumping by 30%. Fourth, the Draught viable with its massive 80% reduction in stamina is the Mead of Troll Endurance granting you troll Sixth, making you friendly to wildlife in the Brew to half. Typically when taming a creature you but with this mead popped, that tick timer is tame a creature from 30 to 15 minutes! I foresee of taming! And the 7th craftable new mead will Anti-Sting Concoction which when consumed makes roam freely without fear. The 8th and the final which unlike the previous is not crafted but is coins. To the best of my knowledge, this potion is When popped, nearby trolls will immediately aggro of sight. While nearby, pink hearts will appear testing, yields no tame or baby troll. The best valheim discord is that using this mead will force proved difficult to confirm. While you take a let me ask you: What do you think? Are we being if you have any theories! Next up and maybe even favorite part of this update is the inclusion skills in Crafting, Cooking, and Farming. First as well as placing build pieces. Increasing this This is most evident when crafting 5 items which hammer durability, and stamina usage while placing cooking skill allows Vikings to gain experience level of this skill the faster you will cook your tray tool and further, increase your chance of my absolute favorite in the farming skill. Like cultivating, planting, and harvesting your have an increased chance of yielding additional stamina consumption while using the cultivator. as you have just seen, this update introduced a handle for 200 coin from the bog witch and combine and further, increase your harvest radius with the as a weapon... Speaking of a weapon, remember, the you will be in for one heck of a fight as it does you with his broomstick trophy to add to our there are 6 other miscellaneous things included in event has been added featuring wraiths and ghosts! must be met to add the raid to your eligible pool spine will bring forth 3 ghosts and 2 wraiths. hildirs location, 3 new pieces of clothing have dress, and straw hat. When combining the you will get the set bonus from it providing plus base stamina use from the tunic or dress. Third, available. Fourth, two new furniture pieces are from the witch and barrel rings from haldor in the resin candle and storage containing barrel which ivy seeds purchased can be planted and function them next to a wall and in no time, green vines absolute favorite are two new console commands. 'all' as an input allowing you to reset your your the new command 'sortcraft' has been added that items at your crafting stations to be sorted as they are originally. And if you're considering make sure you follow these 18 steps to get the