1961: Berlin Germany. Tanks and The nation's divided. And the Wall separate families, separate friends. What happens when a country and Today, Germany is a leading and its capital city is a popular tourist destination. The story of a divided Berlin, and the begins with the fall of Berlin and Hitler's It happened at the end of WWII, a global war that was the Dr. Rainer Zitelmann is a German author, Germany became the location The country was divided into two parts. Two very different economic and political The victorious armies divided Germany into four zones. The three zones occupied by the United unified, and became what was called West Germany. While the zone occupied by the became East Germany. East Germany called itself the West Germany called itself the and it was a democratic, parliamentary republic. The capital city, Berlin, was inside East Germany. Berlin was also divided into East and West by a border that wound its way and through neighborhoods, Wolfgang Zawatski is a caretaker at [Speaking in German] The early days after WWII were So much of the country was destroyed, In West Germany, almost one-quarter [Speaking in German] A lot of East Germans, like entrepreneurs, managers, farmers, creative people, young professionals, towards the freedom of the West, and They were moving from a to what they hoped would be but not everyone was Even after the failure of many West Germans weren't convinced But, by a narrow margin, West German for an economic system He hoped that this would and lead to more wealth and West Berlin, and the rest of with a free-market economy. East Berlin and all of and had a planned economy. In a market economy, entrepreneurs and in the end, On the other hand, politicians and civil servants determine The market economy in West Germany resulted in higher prices, at first. But it also created a flood of consumer goods, which were less expensive than in the East. And shortages in the East were common. Christine and Manfred Schreiber and were married there in 1979. [Speaking in German] Products that were or imported were When shops got people had to wait but a lot of them had [Speaking in German] Some things were If you could buy something you could trade it for Some people think that can determine what instead of leaving it up to millions These lines were created For the next twelve years, the West German economy Shops were filled with housing improved, and the But, not in the East. People didn't want to follow the so they had to be forced. How were they forced? The East German government created a large state security Dr. Hubertus Knabe is &quot;So the Stasi was of controlling the society [Speaking in German] &quot;So, your friends, your colleagues [Speaking in German] &quot;My case, for example, I was living in the West. I smuggled forbidden My best friend, he was a And I did it together with him. It came out that he was the informer Despite firm government control, people were and although it was illegal most East Germans could [Speaking in German] They watched &quot;Democracy In Action,&quot; commercials for refrigerators that and a lifestyle that These day-to-day problems educated, and talented Companies were also leaving, taking The Brain Drain continued. By 1961, more than two and a half including nearly It's really important to remember: Almost and almost no one moved And fifty percent of all these The East German government So, what did they do? In August 1961, The East German government to keep Western fascists out. But in truth, it was a wall A wall to keep people out has But the Berlin Wall has [Speaking in German] And so, people could no longer [Speaking in German] Many people tried to One famous defector was an who threw down his rifle and jumped across the barbed By the 1980s, the Berlin Wall was 100 miles long and surrounded West Berlin. It was topped with watchtowers It was a piece located in the middle 262 people died while over the Wall to where they could or rail to the rest Half of those killed They were shot, drowned, As times went on, socialist East continued to fall more and more The planners made their plans, Low prices on essentials were like vacuum cleaners and making them unaffordable. So-called luxury items that were not up to West Stereos, T.V.s, and cars were as those that you The Trabant is a perfect example. East Germany was famous for The Trabant, or &quot;Trabi&quot; as it was had a two-cycle engine and used a mixture of oil and gas, We may find them funny, but the blue smoke that came out but caused a lot of An even bigger problem It's the dirtiest coal there In 1988, East Germans' unfiltered smokestacks polluted the atmosphere with ten times more particulate matter and ten times more sulfur dioxide per square kilometer than West Germany. It was very dusty, it was stinky, But it was not allowed to Nobody feels responsible. So if it goes out here, who cares. It's not my problem. It's owned by A lot of people think that capitalism but in fact, East Germany, the had the highest per capita air pollution worldwide. [Speaking in German] Almost half of the major rivers in [Speaking in German] And nearly half of the residents couldn't get But drinking water wasn't the only Look at this house. It looked like this. This East German government that was implemented by National The result were low rents, which but on the other hand, there was no money Ten percent of all buildings Forty percent of all apartment buildings and many undamaged [Speaking in German] In West Germany almost every Only two percent had to share But in the East, 27 percent had to that was outside their own apartment. [Speaking in German] The East German government attempted blocks of identical apartment buildings, [Speaking in German] Tragically, the once beautiful villages At least two hundred old town And it's hard to believe, but even to get one of But for most East Germans had to wait from 12 to 17 [Speaking in German] To get a car more quickly, people could buy a [Speaking in German] This black market was illegal, but the In the West, you could buy a and drive it home that afternoon. When I was young, we and our telephone looked And even our telephone But it was much thicker. Why? Because in the West, 99 and in the East, [Speaking in German] The East German leaders always promised to There was economic stagnation, political The socialist planned [Speaking in German] In 1987, President Ronald Reagan, delivered a message the leader of the Soviet Union's &quot;Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this Wall.&quot; President Reagan gave East but Gorbachev didn't The East Germans had What were called the Monday It was a start of a peaceful revolution. In October of 1989, between seventy- and a hundred-thousand Their most famous chant [Speaking in German] In 1989, a government spokesman announced that That night, Germans from Fearing violence, East German At the Brandenburg Gate, people chipped I remember exactly the night when I saw on T.V. that And I'd always dreamed and now, this dream And I called my mother, and this was the only time in my for political reasons. On October 3, 1990, East Germany as one country. Today all that's left of the that we keep as a reminder of this This is the former East Germany. And it's very hard to say where and the new East Germany begins. Once the Wall was down, people were freer and once companies were no longer owned by standards of living began to rise. It proves that increasing free-market This is not only good for but it is also good for average people.