-All right, where every time It's GTA. Welcome to an insane challenge board with an even worse twist Each time my car hits something the gravity is going to increase. With each section I complete, Alex has given me all these cars Let's do this. Welcome to my worst nightmare. Gravity force 40. How this works is every time I crash, the gravity will increase on my bus Now, in order to let me know Alex has put together and then eventually the gravity goes Oh, god, not again. [laughs] As you can see, this makes completing What I have to do Does that count, Alex? Almost anything oh, no, and then the gravity increases Right now, in just the beginning, Now, there appears to be so I assume I can ramp a ramp car. It takes a couple of seconds and that should buy me Yes, so I jump in the air, gravity kicks and hopefully, I can make the distance I can't even run over stuff No, [laughs] I can't where I can change my car out. All right, I want to give this thing just to say I did it. Oh, my god. Don't touch the phone booth No, not today, Satan. No. It shot me backwards. [laughs] On the plus side, I got to stick the landing, Driving this thing with extra gravity I can't even lightly bump or the gravity increases. I love how there's like of whoever died I'm not dying trying to cross the street. I'm dying just trying Oh, big dodge, big dodge. Oh, I'm so dead right now. I'm not going to lie Just let me fall to my death. All right, we're picking something with a little bit more control This looks like Once I leave this, so if I hit something like that, I'm going to end up dealing with gravity. Now, how does this do with gravity? I think it does pretty good. I'm surprised the axle Oh, god, no. The problem is I have to time when the ramp cars jump out right there, On the plus side, my car has a giant fist so someone else gets to feel my pain Metallic pancakes. Does that count if I touch the-- Yes, 24 hours, 24 hours of agony. I love how there's just trying to walk across the street [laughs] Man, it is dangerous to be anyone All right, let's do this. The middle one is definitely the best. I just need to time it right. I need more speed. Okay, ready? Okay, here we go. Yes. Oh, finally. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. [laughs] Oh, come on. Gravity pulled me down. I got hit by a motor. Now, [laughs] my car's on fire. It's finally taken so much damage that it's on fire. The engine's blown. Well, that's two bad choices I almost died just then. You know what? Sure. Oh. All right. Oh, no. I was going to say It's so wide. I need a smaller car because the problem is It's like back-- Oh, no. It's like using a beluga whale to backhand the side It's an unfairly-- There we go. Yes, that's got it, Finally, I made it to this level. I never thought I would get there. Now, it's just a matter of whether or not I can keep this thing what the next challenge is. Okay, so now we had-- Oh, god, We have a busy crosswalk Oh, there's a gigantic 18-wheeler, and we have random cop couple of motorists Dude on a motorcycle. No. I just barely clipped some human being and now I get to experience Wonderful. Oh, got the back tire. I knew that was coming. This cop has no idea what he wants to do. Okay, that's spun on top of me. That shouldn't even count. Oh, god. Oh, what is it? Bad day for parachuting gravity force 50. I have to use this jump, but it looks like-- Oh, no. anytime I hit anything, He put a little barrier so I have to-- I'm dead right now. I'm so dead. I feel like an idiot. Alex actually put the jump I never really thought to check. I dive really didn't think Yes, I have had a jump the whole time. Does me landing It doesn't. That's going to count. That's a double crash. In fact, Now you'll notice she is totally fine. You may have seen a-- I told you she's fine. You may have seen Now I'm just messing things up for myself. That's because she was carrying in her back pocket. That's what that was. Now that I know that I have a jump-- Oh, god, I just have to worm my, oh, no, worm my way through this, stick the jump-- That counts as a crash. Back to the beginning. Making it past this traffic signal-- Oh, my god. The gravity just saved me. I was totally going off the side and the-- Oh. [laughs] Not today. I was totally going off the side so I need to jump this but it's fine if the gravity hits me now Now we're at gravity level 50. Are those just human bodies falling? Oh, my god. It's like a downpour of humans. Very normal day Oh, it's like a little bit of a-- No. Okay. I was going to say-- Oh, boy. You know what Humans are falling. We've got a little bit It's not a true wall ride. It's just got a tilt. What happens is the humans-- No. I think we're going to try a new car. We're going I decide to go with almost and it can also jump. Go number 69. Gravity is trying to drag me to my death. Oh, yes. The only problem is Wow, what was that? Oh, god. Alex, how did you program these cars? Their traffic pattern doesn't make-- Epic dodge. Their traffic pattern Jump. Perfect. I don't hit anything. All right, We're going to speed right through this, Boom. Bang. Oh. [?] Oh, no, the drag. It is true though. The car does a lot of things really good If I turn while I'm on this semi, oh, god, while I'm on this kind yes, I start to skid off the roadway. That's a problem otherwise the precipitating Florida men-- What is going on with this guy? Oh, my glitchy mess. The precipitating Florida men I made it someplace. That's good. This is fine. Now I can survive. Now if gravity hits me, Oh, those are big gaps. Oh, those are really big gaps. If gravity does hit me, that I'm not over one of these gaps I just have to time this, except for that one. Oh, no. I got sucked into, This is what it's like getting Wonderful. The mommy car. The mommy car has a history of success. All you have to do the same way Oh, yes. Look at that first try, big barrel roll, sticks the landing. Oh, my god. This thing takes a lot of damage. One hit from all the-- My rear axle is broken, no. One hit from gravity No, not the corner panel. [laughs] Look at what happens now. All right, we're fine. That is 75% of the normal insanity. See, things are just worse Jump, but you hit the barrier, and it shucks me right and now I'm dead. If I manage to beat I deserve a medal, I would say, but realistically, I am broiling alive. Actually, Now I'm just burning. Now the car has blown up. Now I'm flying through the air violently, and I have- and I'm flying again. We're picking a different car. I like that he put Grays because, yes, Yes, just like my side-by-side. I have spectacular driving skill. Oh, you-- Yes, almost kicked that one motorcycle. It's like a field goal and murder me. Oh, no. Now luckily the shocks so I should be able I believe-- I was going to say, I should be able Oh, my [laughs] Oh, yes, this is why you always upgrade No. Yes, there we go. Okay, so we're-- Oh, the barrier's gone so I don't even have Just line up much distance as possible, and I missed the other sign. Fantastic. No, no gravity there. Go around all of the falling kin of mine. Oh, nol. No. No, no, no, no, no. Back to the beginning. Oh, yes, I'm doing good. This is probably one of my best runs, yet. I haven't been bludgeoned [chuckles] Just a normal part Oh, yes. Oh, this is happening. This is happening right now. Just don't hit any No, no, no, no, no. Yes, yes. That was I just came Now we have another-- What is this? Is this like military exercises Look at them, All right, so on the side oh, there's a parachute I don't know what-- Is that someone Oh, now they're hitting the side. Now they're hitting the panels. Okay. Oh, things are getting real. Do not want to get any humans Well, first try. Look at that. Perfect. Oh, here we go. Now we are on gravity force 60, Oh, it's like teleporting thumbnail holes. Okay. This shouldn't be that bad because I'm not falling off Yes. Even if I hit this, but as long as my car Are these breakaway floors? Alex, did you seriously-- Oh. It helps you to get through. That's amazing. That's so great. See, I wasn't small but because I got hit through the-- Oh, no. No. New car. Me, say to yourself, &quot;Gray, the next time I know. That's pretty much Through the ramp cars. No problem. Through all of the pedestrians. That guy just got absolutely This cop car is break dancing. It's not even driving. Oh, the barrier's back. All right, so the barrier does regenerate. I think I just popped a tire. Oh, we're doing great. We are doing great. Look at this. This is a-- Oh, no. I wanted something even faster. Watch this. Oh, my god, the height. Oh, the paneling flies off I guess it's a great way to shed weight. Oh, no. No, stop it, stop it. I can do this. I just barely missed it. The supercar takes damage Luckily, this stay-in-lane sign and my ribs. All right, we're doing good. This run's looking good. Now, you may notice Yes, that is true but the car is not on fire This hasn't regenerated so as long as we-- Well, I hit that and now I'm going to hurt. This is a new personal best in this car. New personal best, look at the speed. We're going to get past all of the-- Oh, no. Well, actually, I should be fine. Do not suck me down. Yes. I can't believe it. Somehow it flipped me Oh, this is the most that was-- Did I hit that parachute? Okay, I've gotten all the way here and the car is still looking pretty good. Oh, yes, look at it. Oh, no. Oh, god. Oh, there goes the door Luckily, the water put out the fire I'm just drowning. I'm not going to lie, if I get some-- Did that count? Did that hit my wheels? If I get some mutant power, X-men style from all this, I have never burned so much than I have here. Now we're doing good. Okay. Oh. No, no, no, no, no. Oh, yes. Yes. I haven't touched a single thing yet. Yes. Okay, patience, Gray. Patience. Do not let because that would be unbelievably bad. Can I squeak around this? I just need a little bit of space. Oh, yes. I got plenty of space. It's fine. This is like playing operation, except instead of killing the patient, All right, so you do have to jump here. I think my tires must have Let me tell you about falling to my death. I am an absolute pro at it. Me, say to yourself. &quot;Gray, looks like Yes, I sure am. Oh, god. All of my car is in one piece. No. No, why? I'd be doing so much better Oh, slow, Gray. Good. There you go. I'm pretty sure I just touched the wall. Oh, sweet Taylor Swift. I hate my life. I shouldn't say car. I'm picking this. This is the smallest, If it matters, so maybe the increase in gravity I like this thing. There we go. Just slow down before you hit the ramp taking no undue damage. You'll notice that really I've minimized Oh, man. No. [laughs] Just by knowing how to get from one platform to the next and doing it without hitting anything, except for the ramp car. I basically have to run into a ramp car to get from one transition to the other Look at this. Didn't hit a single human being, and to me, that's a big deal, okay? I know not murdering another person shouldn't be that hard but for me, it's quite the achievement. Okay, so I'm just going to let the gravity no problem. My four-wheeler is so narrow that getting through, right between, getting through This part, Right, past the little [?] I got to do a little jump here. There we go. Now I have to go under this no big deal. Oh, yes, oh this is happening. Big jump, nice landing, through, another jump. Oh, it's like Tetris, except I'm doing-- No. No, no, no, no, no okay. As long as I'm not near the edge-- See how it pulls you to the edge. As long as I'm not right on the edge, I think I'll be okay. How am I going to get I have no idea what speed and it looks like All right, here's the plan. I'm going to try My goal is I'm going to try if I-- Hold on, let me just do this. Oh, my god, that's the right choice. You know what? Yes. Yes. Oh, my god, the checkpoint. That's a checkpoint. I got a checkpoint. Yes. Oh, wow, I'm almost going to make it up this hill No. It's okay, I got the checkpoint. I got the checkpoint. This is called gravity force 69 because, [chuckles] We have of rocks being shoved down That's great. All right, so as long as I understand-- Oh, there's no rhyme You have to just guess because every once Yes, look, that touched me. Now I'm going to get but because there's a bit of a decline, it does absorb a lot of the gravity. I don't take a lot Well, I do take a lot of damage, I don't take a lot of vehicular damage Ooh. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. We're going to just nice and slowly, nice and smoothly. What is that? Come on man. I hate you, Alex. Basically, I had won that, [chuckles] Okay. Oh no, we're doing this in one shot. Ready? Oh, yes, middle, over to the right, and that allows me to clear all the forks. Look behind me because I'll end up We have a winner. I learned about gravity today, Anyway, folks, Until the next time,