- [Narrator] Have you ever or any other information within a blink of an eye? This has been made possible which are laid under the The cables which carry are optical fiber cables. They are also used in medical equipment. (upbeat music) Let's learn how optical fiber cables work and how they have revolutionized Optical fiber cable is of fiber strands. And a single fiber strand Optical fibers carry information Let's first learn some to understand the workings The speed of light changes when And this change in speed is expressed by the refractive index. This variation and the speed of the light leads to another interesting phenomenon. Refraction, to understand what it is, let us carry out an In this experiment, light You can see that at the interface the light gets bent This phenomenon is known as refraction. Refraction occurs when with a one refractive index to one with another refractive index. The light bends towards the interface when it goes from a medium of high to one of low refractive indices. Refraction is the reason in a glass of water. This simple refraction technique is effectively used in optical fibers. Now, let's make this Using some dopants we are able to increase the refractive index of As we increase the refractive index, the light will bend more and After a time you can see that, the light will pass through If we increase the the light will suddenly come as a pure reflection. This is called total internal reflection. The total internal reflection is possible if we increase the incident angle rather than increasing In this case at a certain angle the light will come back This phenomenon of total is used in optical fiber The simplest form of optical Cylindrical glass with If the laser strikes the interface at an angle greater total internal reflection will happen and the light will reach the other end. This means that light can be confined in the optical fiber over a long distance. No matter what complex Remember, total internal between the high refractive index glass and the low refractive index air. However, optical fibers A protective coating is not possible with this configuration. The introduction of protective material will replace the position of the air and cease the total internal An easy way to overcome this issue is to introduce a low above the core glass known as cladding. This way total internal and we'll be able to Both the core and the cladding use silica as their base material. The difference in the refractive index can be achieved by adding The optical fiber we have just constructed won't be able to carry signals This is due to various losses This loss of signal strength is generally called attenuation. Absorption and scattering for signal attenuation. This is why you see amplifiers and cables after a certain distance. They boost the signal to be transmitted over a long distance. The power required for the amplifier is drawn from nearby sources. Now, back to the main topic, how does the optical such as phone calls or internet signals? Any information can be represented in the form of zeros and ones. Assume you want to send through your mobile. First this word will be converted into an equivalent binary code as a sequence of zeros and ones. After the conversion your these zeros and ones in the One is transmitted as a high frequency and zero as low frequency wave. Your local cell tower picks up At the tower, if the electromagnetic wave is of high frequency, a Otherwise, no pulse is generated. Now these light pulses through optical fiber cables. The light pulses which have to travel through a to reach their destination. For this purpose, the with optical fiber cables. These cables are laid under It is mainly the mobile service providers that maintain these underground cables. AT&amp;T, Orange and Verizon are who own and maintain the A detailed cross section is shown here. You can see that only a is used for holding the optical fiber. The remaining area of the for protection and strength. Now the question is, where from under these deep oceans? Well, for this a thin copper Which carries electric so that the amplifiers can be powered. This whole discussion simply means that if optical fiber cables do not reach a part of the globe, that part will be or mobile communications. If we compare optical fiber cable to traditional copper cable, is superior in almost every way. Fiber optic cables and transmit data at much higher This is because the speed of light is always greater than The flow of electrons in a copper cable generates a magnetic field that can cause On the other hand, the light which travels through the optical within the fiber. Thus the chance of interaction does not exist. One more interesting feature is that any light signal has a minimal chance of Thus the optical fiber cables You might be amazed to was first used in endoscopy even before it was used in In telecommunications, through the optical fiber cable. However, in endoscopic cables, visual signals which are transmitted to the other end. We request your support at patreon.com to help us continue And thank you for watching the video.