AMY GALLO: All right. You're in a job interview. It's going great. You've answered all their And then comes that question you know the one. So, do you have any When the interviewer you don't want to And you don't want to to prove your right for the job So it's a good idea Luckily, I'm here to help. I've got 38 really you can ask to show that Ready? Here they are. [MUSIC PLAYING] Oh, still there? I guess I owe you Obviously, you're not going So let's break them down. And I'll walk you through going to do in that Keep watching. First, let's talk you want to accomplish with You have two goals here. One, asking smart you assess whether the job And second, those demonstrate that you're the To achieve those to pay attention to how First, make them personal. Instead of asking generic how they pertain to you. For example, instead of asking like, try asking, what would a look like? According to John Lees, Love, this is a great that gets them to He says, &quot;As soon as they it's hard to let Second, you want to build to what's happened so far. For example, you might ask about or a responsibility that didn't The key is to make this like a continuation This requires that you be and that you adjust your But it's helpful to have a sense and to have a few Of course, as I not going to ask all about to share with you. So choose a few that your interests, and And write those down. Have a glance at them before so they're fresh in your mind. All right, let's get to those First up, questions These will help you is a role you really want. These are pretty basic questions you'll have, the projects how your performance Here they are. Number one, what are for me in this role? Number two, what's the I should accomplish Three, what's the performance And how often would I Four, what metrics or be evaluated against? Five, what are the that I would take on? Six, how long before I will here, meeting with clients, for my own accounts, interacting et cetera? Next, here are some questions on the team. You'll be working with. These get into the nitty fitting into the larger group. What the team's needs are, who be managing people, and you'll be working with. Let's look at those questions. Number seven, what is the team missing to fill with a new hire? Eight, what are the might face in this position? Nine, do you expect my in this position to change in 10, can you tell me about the 11, who will I work What other departments or 12, can you tell me What are their strengths and A lot of times the will be your potential boss. If that's the case, here These will give you a sense their relationship to and whether you want Here are the questions. Number 13, how long have 14, how long have 15, what's your favorite And here are some to ask about the company itself. You want to get a good sense goals and values Here they are. Number 16, what are that the company is focused on? And how does this team work to 17, what gets you most excited 18, how would you describe 19, how has the company changed 20, what are the company's plans One important note here. Don't ask things you can find You don't want them to think Of course, understanding the So here are some questions Number 21, how do you 22, what do new find surprising 23, is there anything read before starting me have a shared understanding 24, what's your favorite 25. what do you and the team 26, do you ever do joint or teams? 27, what's different about else you've worked? 28, how has the company John Lees warns that to these questions about It's highly unlikely is going to come out and say to work or that it's That's why slightly indirect what do new employees find They get at company asking about it. One tip related to remote work of Bring Your Brain to Work. If the job you're is going to be fully remote, about how remote employees into the company culture. Another critical element of the is what your growth and career You need to be sure you can that you're currently but also that you can in the organization. Here are some questions that get opportunities. Number 29, what learning and will I have in this role? 30, how does the team to grow professionally? 31, are there examples of with this position? 32, what are the common career 33, how are promotions 34, where have successful OK. These last four to conclude with, though, covered all your bases. And that what's happening Here they are. Number 35, what am I not 36, is there anything with that would be helpful? 37, is there anything about my qualifications? 38, what are the next steps When wrapping up, to ask about salary But that's probably It's too early to ask because you're not yet in Let them fall in Then negotiate. Here are some examples of other Can you tell me about What are your paid So, do I have the job? So there you go, 38 and a few bonus ones not to ask. As a reminder, you're not Be mindful of the And if you have just choose two or three that You will always have time to have the offer in hand. Good luck. Thanks for watching. All of these questions which is linked in Do you have a piece of advice or is there a topic you'd like Comment below. Bye for now.