Welcome to my channel. In this video, I share the method of recovering weak orchids. Helps them quickly take root and grow strongly. I picked up a rotten orchid that someone had thrown away. All the roots have rotted. This original part has completely rotted so it can no longer be used. Wash orchid branches with water. Then take 1 clove of garlic and mince it. Add 500ml of water and soak for 30 minutes. Let the flower nutrition completely dissolve in water. AFTER 30 MINUTES. Wiping orchid branches with garlic water helps disinfect and eliminate fungal diseases. Then soak the orchid branches in garlic water for 10 minutes. This helps stimulate root and shoot growth. 10 Minutes Later. because this orchid has many scars from previous insect bites. So I waited a day for the orchid to dry completely before planting it. 1 Day Later. I recycle sponges as orchid nursery tools. Soaking the sponge in garlic water for 20 minutes helps disinfect and kill fungus. 20 MINUTES LATER. Insert the orchid stem into the sponge and place it in the vase. Pour some water into the jar and change it every time it gets dirty. Spray moisturizer every 3 days. and Place in a cool, well-lit place. 5 WEEKS LATER The roots have grown very healthy. With this simple method, the roots have grown and the orchid has revived very well. I planted it in a pot so the orchid could grow better. If you find the video interesting, please like and share so more people know this tip. Water orchids regularly to keep them moist. Subscribe to my channel to support me and don't miss any tricks on my channel Hello friends. In this video, I share how to take care of orchids to help them grow and flower You see my orchids. New flowers always grow after the old ones fall so my orchids bloom all year round. bloom from branch to branch. flowers bloom on long branches Flowers can be kept on branches for up to 6 months Many flowers grow on the same tree New roots grow a lot to help absorb nutrients best chubby flower buds Help flowers bloom long on branches brilliant flowers How to make fertilizer as follows: Use 1 small carrot weighing about 30g Cut into small pieces Add 1 liter of filtered water Puree filter out residue Add 1 liter of filtered water How to use Use a cotton ball to soak up carrot juice Wipe both the top and bottom of the leaves help get rid of insects and open stomata Orchid will have better photosynthesis and metabolism At the same time, orchids also absorb some nutrients through the leaves Help keep the leaves green 2nd way Water this carrot for orchids Carrot juice is a good source of nutrients for orchids, including vitamins and minerals like beta-carotene, potassium, magnesium, and phosphorus. When the carrot juice is poured into the orchid pot, it provides nutrients to the orchids and helps to promote their health. In addition, carrot juice is also acidic, which helps regulate the pH of the potted soil and enhances the orchid's ability to absorb nutrients. You can soak the orchid pot in this carrot juice for 20 minute Do this 1-2 times a month 3rd way mist moisturizing carrot juice for orchids Spray both the top and bottom of the leaves help wash away dirt, wash away insects on orchids Nutrients in carrot juice help orchids thrive and bloom However, be careful not to over-water the carrot juice as it can clog the water lines in the orchid. Do not water the flowers because the flowers fall off quickly Hope the video content will help you in caring for orchids at home to bloom easily If you find it interesting, please like, share and subscribe to my support channel Next To help you have many choices when caring for orchids at home with organic fertilizer. In this video, I continue to share new methods. Subscribe to the video so you don't miss any tips on my channel. No.1 To make this fertilizer you need apples. Apples contain potassium, an important mineral for orchid growth. Potassium helps orchids develop stronger leaves, roots and flowers. I took the apple peel and put it in a bottle. Soak in boiled water and leave overnight. No. 2 To make this type of fertilizer you need more eggshells. Soak the eggshells in boiled water and leave overnight. Leave overnight After 1 night, filter the water. So we have fertilizer from apples and eggshells. FIRST METHOD. Water this fertilizer solution on the orchid roots. Eggshells provide natural calcium which is very good for orchids. Helps orchids stay healthy and increase resistance. Apple peels contain a lot of Phosphorus, which is also an important nutrient for orchid growth. especially during the flowering and flower development stage. Do this 1-2 times/month to supplement nutrition and increase the orchid's resistance. SECOND METHOD. Spray this fertilizer on the entire orchid. This method is similar to using foliar fertilizer. Calcium in eggshells helps orchids stay healthy and increases their resistance to pests. Apples contain nitrogen, an important nutrient. Helps orchids develop green parts and increase photosynthesis ability. Do not spray on flowers. Because wet flowers will easily fall off. THIRD METHOD Clean the leaf surface with this liquid fertilizer. The leaf surface will always be clean and airy. Orchids will photosynthesize better. Fertilizing regularly 1-2 times/month will help keep the leaves healthy. No. 3 You can reuse eggshells and apple peels to make fertilizer again. RESULT. This type of fertilizer stimulates rooting very quickly. After 1 month of use you will see great results. Many flower buds develop and do not fall. Blooming flowers stay on the branches for a long time before fading. Flowers can remain on branches for up to 6 months before falling. 4/4 if you have orchids after blooming. If all the flowers have fallen, don't rush to throw them away. Let me tell you how to help these branches continue to bloom strongly again. These nodes can continue to bloom very well. When you eat bananas. Don't throw away the peel. Thinly sliced banana peels contain many vitamins and minerals that are very good for the bud formation process. Soak banana peels in 1 liter of boiled water. Then take 3 tablespoons of coffee grounds. Then soak this coffee grounds in 1 liter of boiled water. Then wait for the water to cool. After the water cools, filter to remove sediment. Dip a cotton ball in water extracted from coffee grounds and wash the leaves. Helps eliminate pests and diseases of orchids. and leaves will photosynthesize better. Mix these two types together. Dip cotton balls in this water and clip them to nodes that are likely to continue blooming. Do it once a week. will help stimulate rapid sprout growth. Keep the cotton pad on the branch like that for 20 minutes and then remove it. then water the roots once a week. Soak it for 10 minutes then lift it out. And spray this water once a week to help supplement nutrients through the leaves. After 20 minutes, remove the cotton pad. Then place the plant in a place with lots of light so it can bloom easily. 1 MONTH LATER. Many buds have grown. Continue watering and spraying the orchid with this water once a week. Then place the plant in a place with lots of light so it can bloom easily. After the next 1 month. From the dry branches, many beautiful flowers have sprouted and bloomed. The leaves are strong and sturdy, very resistant to pests and diseases. The flower color is also more vibrant than usual. Hope the video will help you a lot. If you find it interesting, please like, share and subscribe. to the channel to help my channel reach 1 million subscribers soon. My videos have subtitles in many different languages so you can choose the appropriate language. Hello friends. You see here a withered orchid. Maybe it's because you didn't water it. or due to direct sunlight shining on the orchid. If you want orchids to be nourished and grow quickly. Please watch this video carefully. Now I will share this amazing trick with you. You need 1 aloe vera leaf. This aloe vera gel is great for reviving orchids. Now apply aloe vera gel on the top and bottom of the leaf. Aloe vera gel has a very good moisturizing effect. In addition, aloe vera also contains vitamins A, B, and C and minerals such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Do this every 5 days and leave the orchid pot in a cool place for 3 weeks. Next, take 1 liter of warm water and put it in the bottle. Then take 1 spoon of rice and soak it in this water for about 30 minutes. Let the nutrients in the rice completely dissolve into the water. Chop the remaining aloe vera leaves into small pieces. Then puree with 300ml of water. Filter out residue half past four Add 2 liters of water at room temperature. After soaking for 30 minutes, filter this rice water. Mix rice water with aloe vera juice. So I ended up with about 3 liters of this wonderful liquid manure solution. Cover the pot with moss to retain moisture better. Now you use this solution to water the orchid every 5 days. Soak the orchid pot in this water for 2 hours. After soaking for 2 hours, remember to lift the orchid pot and place it in a cool place to let the orchid recover. 2 WEEKS LATER. Fertilize after 2 weeks for fresher orchid leaves. New roots develop very well. Many new roots are growing. New roots will help transport water and nutrients from the roots to the stem. If the leaves are provided with enough water and nutrients from the roots, The leaves will gradually become lush again. 1 MONTH LATER. You see the leaves are very fresh. and the orchid grows a new leaf. after the next 2 months The orchid has grown two branches (two buds). But the leaves at the base have turned yellow so I will cut off these yellow leaves. Instinctively, when an orchid buds, if the plant lacks nutrients, the base leaves will turn yellow and fall off to provide nutrients for the buds to develop. Now I need to supplement the orchid's nutrition by taking 3 spoons of rice. Then soak in 2 liters of water at room temperature and wait 30 minutes for the nutrients to completely dissolve in water before using. 30 Minutes Later Add 3 tablespoons of milk Rice water and milk are excellent sources of nutrients for orchids to grow Now you water the orchid with this solution once a week to help the orchid recover quickly. After the next 1 month. After 3-4 times of applying liquid fertilizer from milk and rice water, the orchid had many roots. Hope the video will help you a lot. Next, I share how to make orchids bloom at the same time with many flower branches. Orchids after flowers fade. We cut off all the spent flower stems. If the plant has never bloomed, it must have 3 or more pairs of leaves. and healthy roots. Sprinkle cinnamon powder on the wound to help it heal quickly. Then wait 1 day for the cut to dry. Then take 1/2 small onion and cut it into thin slices. Add 1 liter of water and bring to a boil. Wait a day then use. Next take 3 spoons of rice. Then soak in 1 liter of water and leave for 1 day before using. After a day, filter out the residue. Mix the two types together. Clean the leaves with this water. Helps eliminate fungi and bacteria to help orchids grow better. Do it once a week. Then use this water to water the orchid roots. This will help stimulate root and flower stem growth. Do it once a week. Place cotton balls between 2 leaves Then spray this water on the cotton pad. This stimulates flower stems to grow. and spray on the top and bottom of the leaves to help supplement nutrients through the leaves for the orchids. This should be done early in the morning, so that by noon the leaves will dry before the sun shines. After 30 minutes, remove the cotton and repeat once a week. and take out the orchid pot. 2 Months Later. Many flower stems grow at the same time. Orchids also grow many new roots. With this simple method, you can easily care for blooming orchids at home. If you find the video interesting, don't forget to like, share and subscribe to the channel to easily follow tips on growing orchids. Now I share with you a wonderful organic fertilizer, And anyone can do it easily. Just 1 to 2 ripe bananas, And the orchid garden will bloom all kinds of flowers. Now I will revive this orchid with new flowers, You've seen this orchid lose all its flowers, leaving only withered branches And here are the withered orchids that have been revived with lots of new flowers. STEP cut off the withers Apply toothpaste on the cut This will disinfect and help prevent rot Don't throw away banana peels when eating bananas Use 1 to 2 ripe banana peels Clip the banana peel to the place where the flower buds can grow and note to remove after 6 hours This helps to create the right moisture, provide essential nutrients and stimulate flower sprouts, do this once a week STEP 2 Use a banana peel to wipe the top and bottom of the leaves, Helps eliminate insects, fungi, bacteria hiding on orchid leaves, and at the same time provide a part of nutrients through the leaves for orchids Orchids will be protected and will not be affected by yellowing and rotten leaves. After wiping, you will see green leaves, Orchids will photosynthesize better to increase resistance. STEP 3 1 liter of water Leave in a cool and dark place for 1 day AFTER 1 DAY banana juice is darker Use this absorbent cotton Clip a cotton ball where the flower buds can grow and note to remove after 6 hours This helps to create the right moisture, provide essential nutrients and stimulate flower sprouts, do this once a week STEP 4 Normally after 3-4 weeks flower buds will be formed and develop like this, With a flower sprout this big, there's no need to sandwich banana peels with cotton balls You will be surprised how amazing this is Don't forget to subscribe to see my next videos STEP 5 Add water to make 2 liters Water this banana for orchids once every 2-3 weeks Banana peel is rich in potassium, phosphorus and essential vitamins. will promote the growth of orchid roots In particular, the potassium in banana peels stimulates flowering very well. In addition, you need to combine using other organic fertilizers for orchids, like manure made from soybeans, peas, fish poop... as I shared, then make sure the orchid will grow healthy and produce many flowers The flowers stay on the branches for a long time before fading Hope this sharing content will help you in taking better care of orchids at home To help you have many choices when caring for orchids at home with organic fertilizer. In this video, I continue to share new methods. Subscribe to the video so you don't miss any tips on my channel. Now, let's get started. To make this type of organic fertilizer you need black tea (or tea grounds). I use 3 teaspoons of black tea. Add 1 liter of boiled water. Incubate until the water cools. After the water cools, filter to remove sediment. Add water to make 5 liters of black tea solution. Next add 1 teaspoon of baking soda. FIRST METHOD Water this fertilizer solution on the orchid roots. Black tea contains many minerals and organic substances that help provide nutrition for orchids. It contains nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus, Important nutritional factors for orchid growth. Baking soda (bicarbonate soda) has the ability to increase the PH level in orchid pots, This is helpful in reducing acidity if you use too much chemical fertilizer. Baking soda has the ability to kill insects and fungi that are harmful to plants. SECOND METHOD Spray this fertilizer on the entire orchid. This method is similar to using foliar fertilizer. You can use it as a natural pesticide to protect orchids from insects and diseases. THIRD METHOD Clean the leaf surface with this fertilizer solution. The leaf surface will always be clean and the stomata will not be clogged. Orchids will photosynthesize better. RESULT Plant roots are protected and supplemented with nutrients so they grow very healthily. will help orchids absorb the most nutrients. Because they are provided with enough nutrition, the flowers bloom more brilliantly. Many flowers bloom on the same branch. The flowers stay on the branches for a long time before fading. Thank you for watching the video. Wishing you luck and success in life. Goodbye and see you again in the next videos.