Transcriber: Amanda Zhu How could you tell if your mind or your mind has been hacked, or you've been subjected to mind control The people who want to persuade The authoritarian cults, including Putin, which was a political cult, The psychology of influence and I'm here to share with you. It was 1974, February. My girlfriend dumped me. I was an upper junior at Queens College, the youngest of three kids of Flushing, Queens, New York. Yes, I grew up 1.3 miles from Colt 45, dt. And these women approached me and deceptively recruited me into a friend group And within two weeks, I was believing that Armageddon was coming, that Moon was the greatest man And for those of you who are too young he's best known for the mass He did 30,000 couples but who believed in him as the Messiah. And within two weeks, I left my Judaism, and I'm bowing to an altar reciting a pledge to fight I'm not joking. And I was elevated I guess they saw me as a nice American - tall, whatever. And so I was privy to these secret about how we talked He talked about taking over America and make it a capital offense regarding the marriages. And I was a fanatic. My family freaked. My friends freaked. "Steve, it's a cult. I knew I wasn't brainwashed, I'm educated. I'm from a good family. I didn't feel brainwashed. I was having a religious experience. And guess what? When Moon said, "We're all going to fast for three days for Nixon despite Watergate." And I called my father, I voted for McGovern. I said, "Hey, Dad, I'm fasting thinking he would love it. He said, "Steve, I said, "Dad, you don't understand. God is working." He said, "Steve, now I know And my father got his chance I fell asleep at the wheel of a van I should say I was sleeping seven days a week, for no pay, working for Father. And I fell asleep at the wheel of a van, drove into the back of a tractor and nearly died and was trapped while the rescue workers saved my life. And there I was in a hospital And by the way, this was 1976. So there were no cell phones, right? So I was away from And I called my sister - I called my sister Thea, and she said, I want him to know it's Uncle Stevie. I'm like, "Don't tell the parents. I think I can arrange it And she did tell my parents, And it's a long story. But my father cried, and he said, "How would you feel if it was your son dropped out of college, quit his job, donated his bank account How would you feel?" And he cried. And that got me right here. He said, "I'd probably do But I thought he was brainwashed That's how I was indoctrinated. So I said, "I'd probably ... He said, "Just listen to these ex-members, and if you wanna back I'll drive you there myself." I said, "Done," because I was so fanatical, And little did I know on day four when I learned about Chinese from former military intelligence people it ticked off every box. But wait a minute. We were God and communism was Satan. But it was the same But that still wasn't enough The following day, the deprogrammers and said, "What do you think, Steve?" And I read it. For the first time I had a negative thought. I thought, "What a liar." Moon was talking saying how much he loved America and he was surprised that he was And I had heard him speak in person how stupid Americans were. Right? But once I had that thought, that means he's not trustworthy, that means he can't be of God. And it was like a house of cards going And I cried for three hours. And here I am, 45 years later, trying to share my experience because everyone needs to understand You've heard of MKUltra, The Russians were doing it. There was a Cold War run-up. I was MKUltra 3.0. I would have died on command, And thank God, my family rescued me. So I'm here to tell you there's a dual identity that happens. There was Steve Hansen of Flushing, Queens and then Steve Hansen, the true parents of the universe. The real Steve reacted And I want to tell a fast story. I know I'm running out of time. Fast Story. My father called me up thinking that he could get me out Sounds familiar? He said, "Steve, what kind of Messiah Little did he know I was trained which is cognitive behavioral technique. I was like, "Crush Satan, crush Satan glory to heaven, peace on Earth, So my father's intention but he drove me deeper in. And I have a little party prop It's actually called Chinese handcuffs. Have you ever seen this? The harder you pull, the tighter it gets. But if you explain to the person, by just putting your fingers together, using your thumbs to push." And voila! So what I'm here to share is a reality testing strategy. It's remarkably simple, and it's based on the BITE model of authoritarian control Step one: Disconnect. We are addicted to our cell phones, and people who were in mind control cults So we need to take ... I'm challenging anyone If you're sure you weren't take a time out. Turn off your phone, Okay, step one. [Step two] Learn about Chinese Communist brainwashing And I'm here to tell you that I did the first quantitative study on the BITE model And the B is behavior control, the I is information control, the T is thought control, And the model basically says you have to think about an ethical for example, where you know, upfront, who the people are, what they believe, versus deception, outright lying, withholding vital information And I have a much more robust but for simplicity's sake, I want to tell you that Cognitive Dissonance Theory, formed the basis of this. I added information control. But I have detailed behaviors in a relationship a political situation, And the next step the best critics and most high-level Why? Because if you're in a mind control cult, you're programmed, "Don't listen to the media. Don't talk to apostates. Take the position: "Hey, I'm an adult. It's my mind. And I get to decide. I can look at the evidence And it's subversion of this as opposed to yelling And listen for the facts. Next is honest self reflection. Think back to your first And for those of you born or religious groups, there's a special variation Or if you were born it's a little bit different. But honest self reflection - I was writing poetry. I wanted to teach English, right? And I wasn't interested in money. I wasn't interested in power. The higher I got up in the cult, I was, like, being told things like, "Hey Steve, you should think when we take over the world." I was twenty-one years old. But that was my Moony self, Honestly self-reflect thinking over key experiences, "If I knew then what I know now, "The women lied to me. If I knew they were Moonies, I would have told them to get lost. Honest self-reflection. Look at yourself in the mirror. It's your life; it's your mind. You should control it, right? I'm part of a group We're trying to do a MeToo moment. This is the call to action, if you are ever a cult of any type, And I haven't mentioned trafficking. Trafficking is illegal worldwide. Faud, force or coercion, and fraud and coercion So I did my dissertation connecting and I say there were millions of us. But we need to get educated. Help yourself first. Really learn about cults and mind control, and then tell your story. Reach out to your family and friends if you've cut off people that you care There are methods, and it's basically respectful, curiosity, and being quiet while you wait Thank you so much. (Applause)