Very popular family-run okonomiyaki restaurant in Hiroshima. Warm hospitality and delicious okonomiyaki. Naka Ward, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture. Yuki was born and raised in Hiroshima. She fulfilled a childhood dream and opened an okonomiyaki restaurant 11 years ago! The guide, Orihara-san, works for a tour company headquartered in Canada. Hello This can't be accounted for individually, can it? Yes, you can! If you tell me how many people. Is everyone alone? Yes. Is it okay if you ask us one at a time? <Beer?>One, two, three, four, five, six. Six. Yes, thank you! Okonomiyaki, They are asking. Abby, so I recommend you choose Green Onion without Pork. OK, perfect! these are the vegetarians. The restaurant receives a variety of orders, including vegetarian, vegan, and no pork. No fish powder. Seaweed powder, sprinkle it on. Please! Her brother, Yuudai-san, helps out at the restaurant in the evenings. Oyster, udon noodles, cheese topping. Edamame (soybeans) Now 9 noodles are in. One udon noodle is in. You can take pictures and videos as well. That's seaweed. The base? This is the base? This is the base. Exactly. What is &quot;Onegaishimasu&quot; mean? Oh, "please." "NIku nasci onegaishimasu", without meat please. Bake 15 sheets at once, so always check the count. Share edamame. From Blake. Please do. This is only seaweed powder. Don't put fish powder on it. Here you go. How many poached eggs? Two. Mika, do you cook mochi (rice cake)? Yes, I do. Thank you very much. This is without meat. I'll finish it up. Ron Special, Beef Intestine, Chicken, Chicken, in that order. These two placed vertically are meatless. Two tomatoes and udon noodles topped with a poached egg. Yes, mochi (rice cakes). Burner, please. Yes, please! Say please, and I'll start with the first one. Okay, Chicken Cheese Oyster Tomato cheese Chicken cheese Green onion, no pork Kimchi? Here, with kimchi toppings. What's this? Orange juice. Draft beer. Thank you. Okay, without pork. Enjoy a meal Would you like to take pictures? If you tell us, we will take pictures, so please instruct us. Everyone is very good with a spatula. Shall we take pictures together? photo? Since you're here, please join us, madam. Yeah, Smile! Use the spatula as if you were cutting a griddle, not an okonomiyaki. This tour is coming from UK, Australia, Canada, Norway, Ireland and Belgium. Is the age group younger? That's a tour to the 30's. I see them at various restaurants and many prefer spicy ones, such as habaneros and jalapenos. EXCUSE ME! Welcome to my shop Thank you It's delicious! Thank you. Yeah, yummy, yummy. I've had many okonomiyaki, but this place is the best! Wow, great! Thank you. The man is eating the okonomiyaki of the women's group. Can you eat it? Yeah, thank you. I look forward to working with you in the future. Toothpicks. There are all kinds of restaurants, look around, find one you like. Yeah, it was really good. I think so too lol. It was delicious. I don't speak English, but I was trying to serve my customers better. Also, I appreciate that you give me an individual bill. We will make it clean. Next, the individual customers. They are waiting in line. During the busy spring season, they are very busy with groups, then individuals, then groups. These free customers come before and after the groups. Two of them are from France. Since there are many customers without pork, there seemed to be a slight misunderstanding in the explanation. This time, they are from France, Germany, Korea, and Japan. 12 sheets. Sorry. Would you like to drink it when you eat? Shall I freeze a glass? Sorry. Fish powder. Fish powder and seaweed powder. Seafood is only for Ron Special, right? Mika, sorry for being persistent. I have the oil. Are you waiting in line? One person? Draft beer. Here you go. No tomatoes ordered. Two cheeses. Let's go butter. The two on the right are the Ron special. Chicken without pork. Please put some sauce on it. Mika, one green onion. One green onion with poached egg on top. I understand. One, two, three, four oysters on top. Beer? One draft beer, please. No. 3. All done! Yuudai, tell me about the menu. He let me film the eating scene. Merci. Wagyu beef Koune. It is one of the soul food of Hiroshima. Please eat a lot. They came back for dinner later and gave them a tip and a message. It is displayed here in the restaurant. On this day, the order stops with this customer because a group of customers will arrive at 8:00 p.m. They have been studying Japanese for almost 5 years. Thank you for making it. Thank you for waiting. Are you okay? Yes, Delicious! Today she is making dough in between customers. Don't you feel thirsty? Would you like a drink of oolong tea? Their Japanese is beautiful. Have fun! It's so much fun. Oh, good for you. How many days are you in Japan? One month. Wow, that's so nice. Off work? While working? We are off. Great, have so much fun. After tomorrow, they will be cycling from Onomichi to Imabari. The customers from 8:00 p.m. were from England, Scotland, and Ireland. Their guide, Mr. Kalik, is from Jamaica and has been studying Japanese since his college days. Fish and eggs are allowed, but not meat. Checking with the guide. Size of beer mug. The madams packed the seats and let Mr. Kalik in. Yuzu Chu-hai (Handmade Yuzu Jam Sour) (To the regulars) Sorry, I'm really sorry. What is it without meat? Yuudai. Look at the noodles. Yes, sir! Mika, please prepare 17 eggs after washing your hands. Double the vegetables, no meat. No meat, topped with tomatoes and green onions. Are you sure? Yes! Are you OK? Thank you for your help. There are a lot of green onions. Please put out the fire. Thank you. Five green onions. Seafood. This no sauce. The man in the back said, &quot;Why don't you take a shot from here?&quot; He called me over. Okonomiyaki, ready to serve. Tomato &amp; green onion without pork. Okonomiyaki Special Seafood Do you want a beer for Ron Special? Yes, a beer! &quot;Slainte". Cheers to Scotland. Where are you from? &quot;Slainte". Cheers to Ireland. The guide, Mr. Kalik, is from Jamaica, where the official language is English, and they also have a local language, Patois. I met a Jamaican for the first time. I am so glad. Tomatoes to put on the very popular tomato cheese okonomiyaki. It's time to clean up after business. Today's free customers are from Taiwan, Canada, New Zealand, Germany, and Japan. Customer turnover. In the back are long-time regulars. It looks like he was very considerate and sat in the back of the restaurant. Today's tour group starts at 8:00 p.m., so the free customers will have their last order at the next session. They are from Germany, Singapore, Romania, and Japan. I will start grilling teppan-yaki after I finish this. Sorry. If you can sit in front, you can take a realistic video. Here you go. Grilled beef intestine. Yuudai-san, may I ask you to take a picture? Reservation at 8:00 p.m. Until then. (Regular customers) I'll be back! Sorry! Yes, welcome! Plum wine, please. Please Water her. Tour customers from 8:00 p.m. The guide, Mr. Marco, is from the U.S. He loves anime and video games, and has taught himself Japanese. A large serving of vegetables is a lot, but is it OK? OK, I will try. They do individual accounts and will confirm the number of people. Yes, Beer. An order of beef intestine was placed. What would you like? Green onion. Cheese topping, please. Maybe the vegetables are bigger than expected. Excuse me. Can we still go in? We're done with this group. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to have bothered you. Yes, Thank you. Many customers will be coming. There is a reservation status for the group for the day on Instagram and Google. Please check if you plan to come. What? Are the calories high? Not high lol. It's a lot of veggies. Yes, Half Noodles special. Yes, Half Noodle's Vegetables Green Onions Without Pork Mr. Marco's Okonomiyaki. Sorry, I forgot already. Nah, you did great. Thank you. Red ginger, she seemed to like it. This is a story about a visit to Los Angeles, the hometown of Yuki's husband, Kotaro. They stayed in San Diego where he had a friend from his college days. A customer asked where I bought the T-shirt. I was overweight in the U.S. and had nothing to wear, so I bought it at ZARA. Five dollars. Shall I give it to you? Which hotel are you staying at? Rihga Royal. Are you there tomorrow? We're going to Kyoto tomorrow. At what time? Around 8:30. 8:30 in the lobby? OK, I'll bring it. My bad is that I immediately wonder how many okonomiyaki this money is worth. Prices seem to be going up in England as well, and eating out in Japan is about half the price in England. I hear that rent is also expensive, so they don't go out to eat much. Keep the change. Thanks. I'll buy some snacks for the kids tomorrow. They are cleaning up a little late today. Ed is from Serbia and used to be a flight attendant. Everyone seemed to be having a good time with Mr. Edo's help. He is very fluent in Japanese. Oishii- Thank you! Checking with the guide to see if there are any ingredients that are not allowed. This looks like a nut, but it's not a nut, because it's a tenkasu. Seaweed no? I think it was OK. Two seafoods, right? Yuudai. Yuki's homemade potato salad is very popular. Weekday daytime. Ron is very busy at night and sometimes can't get in, but this is the time to aim for. You can eat relatively slowly. The woman talking with Yuki-san is an American woman who was in Japan until she was 11 years old. She came to the restaurant this time during her trip to Japan with her husband. I am learning English with my child. Hello and I love you. Live cooking, which you can see in front of the griddle, is a lot of fun. How many staff members do you have? At night I have my brother and a part-timer. Three people. During the daytime, there are not many staff available, so Hide-san, a former regular, helps her. Are there more Japanese or foreigners? Before the Corona Disaster, it was mostly Japanese. Now it is mostly foreigners. I had oysters topped with green onions. I will have it. This is the best. Misaki-san and Phillip-san. They promised to meet again in Los Angeles, her husband Koutarou's hometown. With her husband, Kotaro-san.