- We can try it now. So, yes, the game just launched, We're back from the Game Awards. I think that was the most stressful thing I've done in a long time. We knew it was supposed to go And the premiere still hasn't happened. I went to epicgames.com, the store, whatever the URL is, we can edit it in. I went to the store and it was and Greg is like basically into his veins to see 6:10 happens, and then 6:15 happens, and no one is talking about it. And no one has seen the www.playhades.com 404s, And that's the URL at (acoustic guitar music) - Hello, my name is Greg Kasavin, and my title is creative Supergiant Games is a here in San Fransisco, California, and we've been around for And we say we want to make games that spark your imagination like which means something to us, hopefully means something to you. Supergiant Games was Amir Rao and Gavin back at Electronic Arts in Los Angeles, on a command and conquer series But at around that era, we started to see this kind of growing trend among smaller independent developers. And there were this games like Braid, and Castle Crashers, that were made by teams of like 10 or fewer people, give or take. And Amir and Gavin, you well, what if we could do that? It just so happened that Amir's father had a vacated home in And one day in, I believe Gavin and Amir dropped moved into the house in working on the game that became Bastion, the first game from our studio. The team, you know, starting grew to the size of seven, over the course of Bastion's development. I reunited with Gavin and Amir as Bastion was going into full production. Thankfully, that game when it came out in 2011. Two years flat, it was kinda You know, working out of a house, so Gavin and Amir were both I by the time the project was over. Gavin's car would like you know, not being operated for many days at a time, and things like that. - We were interested, after and hopeful world, I mean it after the bright colors of Bastion, and upbeatness of some of going to like a more serious place, going to a tone, like an And going away from the action gameplay of Bastian, tactical type of play with Transistor. You know, we kinda knew we wanted to make a sci-fi love story, and we wanted a game with but we had no idea what until we started working on it. We took like three years on that one, and then we made a game called Pyre, which took another three years after that. - With Pyre, it was similar. We wanted a game with a that you could get closer to, and it wasn't clear to us until we spent a lot of time on it. It was something that we And I think we were just ready to have a game where (laughs) as a starting point. There was so many lofty in terms of being a larger game from us, but without us growing the team a bunch. Like, Jen drew every You know, Darren made every piece of music and every character in that game, from the shopkeeper to the XLs you meet all have their own musical theme. Greg did like an ending that based on what you decide to do So you spend a lot of time and it's a complicated process, and it was a laborious process, and it's not that we were interested in doing something uncomplicated or that didn't take our best efforts. I think we were just interested in doing something we And start working on really quickly, and start making good really quickly. - And here we are, about to announce, as well as launch, our fourth game in less than a month from this moment when I am speaking right now. For us it's very exciting, and we're really anxious what everyone is gonna think (lighthearted music) Our fourth game is called Hades. It's a narrative driven, in which you battle your way out of the Underworld of Greek myth, defying the god of death We wanted to create a game that could be replayed over and over, but that still had kinda of our past games, the the attention to narrative, a style of play that really and let you kinda find your One of the aspects of the theme that was fun for us to explore well, for a game set in what happens when you die? You're already in the land of death, you're just there already, the protagonist is attempting We kinda pitched it to ourselves Instead of trying to fight you're trying to rise up to the surface. But every time you get close, you know, you die and back down you But in our game, you not just in a random but in the house of Hades himself, because you play as his son. And his son and Hades himself do not, they're not on the best of terms here. There's been some kind of His son has basically said, &quot;Screw you Dad! I'm outta here.&quot; Climbs out his window, is but Hades is like, &quot;you &quot;you're an idiot if you think - Be on your way, indeed, what do I care? You shall never reach the surface. Go, see for yourself. - So, to remind ourselves where we are at. Today's November 12th, our game comes out in early access on December sixth. The Game Awards are December sixth. We are in the last week of the last full milestone we There is a play test tomorrow. Next week is a short week, the office is closed We have always treated So you know, we can email and stuff on Thursdays and Fridays, Between today and the 30th, there are three or four So one is we are going to We will wrap a trailer also. And we're sending a hopefully the end of So you may get bugs that are like, &quot;Hey, this is affecting trailer capture,&quot; or something like that. If you get a bug like that, just make sure to try and bump it up or to if it seems like something - To us, it seems boring to see a dude running through this environment, but I think it's just you're seeing the isometric - Yeah, there's a lot to take in. - There's a lot to take in and like, it's pretty awesome looking. - Yeah, I think my feedback is coming from the part where, is framed really weirdly, - By comparison to Red and winding up in the pose there. It's like, as an introduction it's just, you don't Of course, thankfully, you got We give you the, kinda like, and then we're like, I don't know, just as much as possible as we can bridge that for people, the more that we could even though it's like a costly-- - I'm hung onto the feedback, I just don't think we - The thing I want to is that we have the, that we know exactly what all the shots actually are, so then we can like focus, alright? - We toil on games for a long time, and they come out and that's it. You know, we often support them and you know, we go to and that kind of thing, but we're really interested almost in collaboration allowed us to make games - A lot of developers I you only feel truly at your peak, kind of working on the in the last few months of development. It's almost tragic, you're or whatever, not quite and at the end, you feel a You're like, you're at your prime. But you're having to wrap up, and then you move onto your next project. So with early access, it means that we can sort of keep working on it for the longest period of time. We could keep iterating on aspects based on feedback that we get. And we can make really over a longer period of time, and then, do new things with the storytelling that aren't possible deliver the whole story all in one chunk. So there's just a laundry it was exciting for us to explore. It will have it's twists and turns as we develop it over time. Of course, for the player who wants the more traditional with a beginning, middle, and end, you know, they can always until we're done with early access. And one day, the game will be complete from start to finish in that sense. But for everyone else, we're kind of along for the ride, as and then evolve it based on our own plans and the feedback that we - It is, what is the date today, December? - November. - It's November (laughs) And this is our play test day. Once a month, we all sit and play the same version And then, we get into a room and share our high-level thoughts about our experience with that build. And we try to talk through, that we might want to change as a result. And then that helps us determine what we're gonna do for - I came in early, I got And now I'm fixing some that are caused by the play test. Right now, there's this really weird one where the swarmers aren't getting the Ares curse applied correctly if you like have this very I'm trying to figure out why. - This one is kinda special before the early access build comes out, so like, our audience has been almost entirely just people on the team. And there's already a million So it's like harder for me to play it. But I, too, must do my 90 And what's kinda cool is like, no matter what you do at Supergiant, you've gotta play test the builds, you've gotta bring your feedback, and you've gotta send your notes. - I also for the first time, played with the keyboard knowing that our primary This game's way harder with keyboard and mouse was my experience, just like, aiming was a Like, it took me like five runs to last more than like four rooms. - I always play with keyboard and mouse. And I just wanna say and I beat the whole thing without dying. (laughter) - I did feel that secret You take a decent amount of health damage just to get a regular reward, you're giving up on like, you try to not lose any health or you can just give up and take 13 damage and - I'd mention secret rooms, I had like an unfortunate experience where I spent 19 health to and then only got 19 health (laughter) So that was sort of frustrating. - The biggest set of changes we're making in the last couple weeks there's the whole category of like, stuff that just still needs time. Like, it just needs a little bit of art, it needs one more You know, it needs better it needs better visual effect, it needs more clarity in what's going on, the game needs to slow down or pause here, the gam needs a better sound effect, it needs a more appropriate sound effect, oh my God, we left an oh crap, we have to switch that one out. The other kinds of changes are like on the experience. It's like, hey, no one ever no one every uses this everyone's avoiding using And so we have to start And typically, this is a because we shipped the And I've tried to like assuage my, my anxiety around this, hopefully, when players play it, they will tell me if it's bad, but the kinds of changes are trying to make it (laughs) Or not embarrassingly off-pace. Or not embarrassingly outside We had, you know, 12 weapons on Bastion, and I was getting feedback about the same set of weapons a lot. And what that meant, I think what it meant is that no one was using the other ones. So we did a set of play-throughs where we split up the weapons. And so finally people and some of these other things. And like, that's when people Like, when you just have to use then suddenly, we had these like passionate advocates for the bow, and what it's upgrade trees were, and what it can do, and what it should do. And so, for us, I think we're still, we're kinda at that point where you know, I need a lot of information everyone's trying different stuff, and we're finding out a And trying to push on and kinda, you know, tidy up the stuff that is maybe a little messy. - I hadn't played since and it took me a couple runs to remember the door icons, I kept getting confused Aphrodite is the heart, and - The safe slot activation I like, didn't know that I after selecting a safe slot. I kinda wanted to just It was just kind of a - I think we were talking two and a half weeks, or That actually calculates down because it's also gonna be Thanksgiving, and because it's early access, encourage the team to kind of because it's gonna go into early access, and it's not like we get to We're just gonna have So we gotta maintain our So I've been working on polishing, a lot of polish at the studio. We like to call it going to so that we can polish, Polish And then, I'm also like, in the middle of, and kind of tying up some of the loose ends on marketing art, finishing and composing key and then also working on the art that will go into the trailer eventually. - We carve out lots of time for fixing ang polishing. There's tons of important happening every single day across all dimensions of the project. Like art assets that are still being touched up or polished or replaced, audio being updated, new voiceover and events and stuff still going in. So, so much of the game, is really, truly taking - Hey, did we change something about the Aggro one's light range? - Sorry, what? - Did we change something - No, I never actually committed that. - You never committed that? Okay, I think there's a bug, They have no interest in fighting back. Why does this bastard Do we know? Will we find out before it's too late? - We have to keep telling ourselves it's a marathon, not a sprint. All of our colleagues in who have worked on early access They say, prepare yourselves, the beginning of a whole new chapter. (suspenseful music) - Alright, if I may be so bold, my Lord, perhaps the merest sight of me still stirs in you a memory It gladdens me you used to like my songs. Drama. - Yeah, thank you. - Yeah, no problem. - Well done. - Also just him talking about - Not actually being glad or happy. - It's Monday, November is gonna be announced Normally, I find this part of the process to be one of the best, because usually so much you're finally getting that you might have postponed But this is a unique thing for us, 'cause we're actually announcing it and launching at the same time. It feels like so much more can go wrong, but also, we'll be okay, to working on the game so everything is gonna be fine. So, what you're hearing of rationalization that I on this game, to try and (ukulele music) - Are you remixing the trailer music? - No, I'm just fidgeting. (rock music) - What am I doing? This is, I should not be doing this. - So let's actually, if we could, wanna just see this whole - Oh, with the new-- - Yeah, I changed it. (rock music) - Dude, it's gonna, you think... Are you sure you're gonna? Let's go to the death moment. That's gonna be a better version - Well, I would jump cut like, it is pretty fucking cool as - I could try it a couple - Where is that effect, - I mean, I wouldn't try... - No no, like maybe I could just ask Josh to render me, like that effect, separate and I can just put it - So, to remind yourselves the week of the Game Awards. The Monday is when we're Tuesday, some of us go down to LA. We're down there Wednesday, Everyone else will watch the Game Awards from the office up here, and then launch the game that Thursday. And then, work on the - And then work on it (uplifting music) - It is Wednesday, December fifth, and tomorrow is the Game Awards. Those of us who are back doing something that we don't which is playing the game, where we're not constantly and things we would fix. It's actually really hard to play a game that you 'Cause we don't want to So we're doing that, I think a lot of us wish we had more to do In terms of our emotional state, I think there's a lot of excitement. Epic just announced and people seem really exited about it, and we're gonna be a part So there's just a lot of I wish tomorrow was right How are you feeling about - Um, pretty nervous. - Mostly excited, yeah. - I'm like, super excited. I know like a bunch of people are nervous, but I'm just like really excited. - I'm just like extremely excited, but also unsure what's gonna happen. - Mostly just focused on the work, put the rest of it out of my mind. Whatever happens happens, and we're ready to just keep going after that. (suspenseful music) - We somehow survived. Where are we, Darren? - We are at the Burbank Airport, across from Guy Fieri's burger joint. - We should film the sign. - We should, yeah, it's Yeah, it's a good landmark for Logan. He's gonna meet us here in a minute. - Hello, good sir. We are filming for the documentary. Good to see you, sir. - What documentary? - We're doing the Noclip thing. - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. - It's been a while. - Nice hat. - Thank you. - [Jen] Hey man. - [Joanne] I got, no, we want. - [Jen] I don't know. - [Joanne] I bought six of both. - [Greg] Hold on Jen, we're - Okay, okay, okay, I'm sorry. I come from a Chinese family. - [Greg] Too many layers. - [Gavin] Wait, can I - [Greg] Are you not partaking, Gavin? You're just eating cookies and watching? - Watching here for a moment. - They critique, and make snarky comments. Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer Had a very shiny nose - From this angle, Jen, it looks like just the - While you're on it, because - Oh, wait, just, if you're gonna stand. - Don't believe Jen, it's stable. - Don't believe her lies. - Aahh! - Look, it's snapped in, you're good. I'll hold the side, good luck. - [Gavin] Does it have or could it be like second tallest? - [Joanne] No, it's supposed - [Jen] This is a team building exercise. - To both? - Yes. - [Jen] Does it stay? (laughter) It's perfect! [Joanne] Put it lower to the base of that. - [Alice] I love it! - Supergiant Games presents. - Put it lower to the base so you can't see the battery pack. - I need to make the if shit goes sideways document right now. - The doors open to the Game Awards in like 45 minutes or So we are getting ready to head out there. There have been some news items that did leak today, so we dodged a few of Gonna be an interesting night. I think afterwards, yeah, and just figure out what and try to help manage the most of the folks back at the studio are gonna help us make We're the lucky ones who get to just show up to this thing and smile and nod, and cheer for ourselves if nobody else does, once - Alright. - [Amir] Pre-dinner for the-- - Pre-celebration, We have so much pie, it's crazy. - [Amir] Oh yeah, I don't think we've seen this yet tonight. - No, look at this beautiful pie. Alice made this one. - Homemade, store-bought. Has anybody touched the siders? - [Joanne] I have. - [Amir] I have as well. - [Joanne] It was great. - And the winner for goes to Monster Hunter - [Amir] Oh, they're doing awards already? - Yeah, the pre-show awards. - [Amir] Does that go on Pre-show award winner? - My good man, we're doing (laughter) - What are you watching on Gavin? Are you on Twitch or YouTube? - YouTube I guess, random link. - They put the game live early. But we can't do anything So people can start buying the game now. - What do you mean we can't do anything? Like, promote it? - Yeah. Man, you've not been reading Slack chat. - Do you think it'd be good for me to try and do those purchases now, too? - Yeah, mine isn't working, but I think it might have to do with like the address on my credit card or something like that. - I can give you my card hop on it myself as well. - It's going up, oh my god! - Really? - Yeah, on the epic games store. - Oh, online? - It's online. - If you have the store open already, like before they updated - Nope, nope, it still wants me to buy it. - Trailer is playing! - Oh my God, aahh! - From the Pyre of Bastion and Transistor. - Camillo, turn it up. - Who do you think you're talking to? Nobody gets out of my domain, You wish to learn the hard way. Fine, then go, get out, - (chuckles) Wasn't (electric guitar music) I'm home, well, time - Death is your only family. Death and delight. - Yeah, whoo! (applause and cheering) - There we go. - [Geoff Keighley] from Supergiant, that is They're gonna be updating over time and it's available tonight, right now. - So, yes, the game just We're back from the Game Awards. I think that was the most stressful thing I've done in a long time. There is some parts of it that for me, so I had my phone, in a Slack channel, and I And they, the whole idea was, Geoff was supposed to go and then the store was And I got a text from our friends at Epic saying hey, we need to set the store live, basically right away, And I thought, that wouldn't because they needed time, five and 15 minutes for and for everyone to be able to see it. And Geoff gave us the towards the beginning of the show, but we didn't know exactly when. So he couldn't give us the and you don't know what's gonna happen. So I had all this pressure, on one side, because I wanted to make sure that the store was gonna be live, because there's a URL at the end, telling people where to go to buy it. And I also wanted to make because we were so fortunate sitting in our seats around 5:30 that no one knew about the game or anything about it, And I really wanted the world premiere at the Game Awards to be a world premiere. Ended up going up around 6:08, at least the store started to propagate. Or that was when we were It was supposed to take and I think it took 45 seconds or something before it went live. And so suddenly, I went to whatever the URL is, we can edit it in. I went to the store and it was and Greg is like, basically into his veins to see 6:10 happens, and then 6:15 happens, and no one is talking about it. And no one has seen the game, and the premiere still hasn't happened. We knew it was supposed to go And then, some other stuff www.PlayHades.com 404s, And that's the URL at And thankfully, one of and at the beginning of the trailer, I went to www.PlayHades.com and it 404ed. It wasn't working, and at I went to www.PlayHades.com So I don't know what magic It went live and it's live and and you know, the team is talking about it and I have no idea what they're saying. - Jesus Christ, it's - I have never made it to the hydra. - If you can beat it and - That's been less true lately, but he has a really good build. - He's at 98 health, though. - What's the bug that someone has? - I don't think it's a bug. - He has two sandwiches - Yeah, die, die! - The thing is, he's gonna win because he's invulnerable all the time. And he's got one more death insurance. - But this is really - All you have to do is get hit, though. - Oh, she did it! - Yay! - No, goddammit! - Alright, type in a Congrats from the Supergiant - Are you serious? - Oh my god! - Are you fucking kidding me? - I was looking at it, he - Being permanently - Is that the guy talking? - Oh my gosh! - I mean, he had a fun time. - He's gonna be said when it's over. - Yeah, he just understood what. - Is this the end? - There's more, there's more, don't worry. - That's as far as I can get for now. - We got you, fam, it's like - Nice, thank you, thank you so much! - You're welcome, bro. - There's more, talk to Hades. - Go talk to Hades dude, come on. - I guess we just have - Alright, thank you. - Well that's good, - It was a blast, oh my god! (laughter) - That's pretty good. (sentimental music) - We've always wanted to help show how games are created to the idea that game development, while fraught with It's something that is achievable if they have an internet connection, and the time and the and learn the trade and learn the craft. We hope, in developing the public eye, that, you know, yeah, hopefully but also if it helps some folks out there on their own journeys to discovering where they stand with respect I, on a personal level, since that's how, yeah, since that's how I got into it myself. (sentimental music) - Should we do the They can use as little - There are like more than in like, all of Queens. - Yeah, than in all of the There are more closets in this house. - Just me staring, and I'm where, well it's our internal name, it's the house of Hades, where These little ghosts, I picked So sometimes I just watch them to make sure they're since every ghost's patrol path is done with great intention and gravitas. (electronic music)