My name's Ed Calderon. I'm a former Baja police agent. I currently work as a security consultant in the United States. This is how crime works. Gun smuggling has armed the people that killed a lot of the people A lot of these groups are actually stockpiling these firearms for long periods of time. It's hard for anybody and what gets found and in a country where realistically I think the flow is this. Drugs make their way north, and firearms and money 70% of all firearms come from the north, from the United States. Operacion Hormiga, they Basically, individuals across the border is a very common thing. So, how many times can Well, if they're to how many times they It's a pretty easy process taking it apart into its basic components, putting it in a backpack, and just walking across some of the ports of entry. Another one is just basically having some of these firearms duct-taped and/or shrink-wrapped onto your person. So, let's imagine I have five mules. Each of them is capable of carrying around probably two guns on their legs, duct-taped to their legs, maybe two more higher up on their thighs, and maybe two on their chest. Just multiply that by the amount of people you have doing that on a daily basis, filling their pockets with ammunition, filling Corn Flakes boxes Tijuana is basically Silicon Valley when it comes to finding in through one of the most-watched borders on the planet, basically. There's body shops. There's places that install radios. There's a bunch of people in modifying vehicles down there. These businesses have been some of these concealment Many occasions, we would of different kinds in in and around some of the Things like pushing the and then pulling the brake on the car will release a latch on revealing a concealed firearm. American vehicles are the preferred kind. You'll see recreational vehicles utilizing festive days where, you know, spring break, where you'll see a surge of traffic going from the north to the south. A lot of the smuggling concealment related to from the United States into Mexico of agricultural equipment, A lot of these companies are And/or without knowledge they get loaded up with extra stuff on their way towards the border as they pick up a load and try and introduce it into Mexico. Another aspect of it is Again, firearms do get moved that have been operating Some of the most interesting was French-style trebuchets, which are basically giant catapults flinging things across the Drone technology. The that I directly saw was a large quad drone that crashed right on the border where the Tijuana River We saw remote-control vehicles. Small ones, toy ones, basically, loaded up with firearms, being driven across the This is not my opinion, but the Border Patrol is one of the most corrupted federal institutions There's been many cases and And it's, these gun runners and have and own people in and pay corrupted officials It is interesting that at all at times crossing into Mexico, but if you cross into San Diego, your vehicle gets scanned, you sometimes you have to and put it into an X-ray Density scanners might be some of the firearms but those X-rays are used sporadically. Every now and then and it's rare that they find something. There's explosive-detection dogs that are out there that are Munitions, for example. But, again, you have to realize, to not only create a dog, canine program that is able to detect but to maintain them, In my experience, most of the arrests that we made were pitazos. A pitazo is a Mexican slang word for &quot;somebody told on them.&quot; Usually it's a personal thing, or usually it's somebody Those vehicle hides, a that have been caught in the past were random acts of pure luck or somebody trying to 20-year-olds, 18-year-olds get hired to buy some of these And then they get gathered Somebody that has a vehicle, that crosses the border regularly somehow, maybe goes camping in is a perfect candidate to And you'll load a bunch of cars with people that are not to stop at the border. So they basically utilize people camouflage. What do people expect to see on the border as far as a drug smuggler? So they're going to shy away from that. Women get utilized a lot, a Older women, because of Mexican police agents as far trying to search, much less a female that is older in age. Social media is a very big part of it. Not only the advertisement being sold in some places, but also recruitment of on the US side. Cartels will troll places like TikTok, will have social-media accounts related to one of their members or showcasing some of and you'll see wannabes and stuff like that on the US side. Kids that want to be a It's easy money for a kid, you know? The economy, the lack of opportunities for a lot of the young people. Even with educations down I was approached several through my process of turning and it only takes you doing something for a criminal organization like any of these cartels it only takes once for to know how to contact you, to know that you are able And the first time, it's voluntary. The second time, they're going The person buying that to somebody that's going to he got probably $200. So that's the first payment, you know? And then that gun is now going to be probably doubled down south, or maybe 80% more of the value's going to be added on to it. So you have something and now it's worth $1,500 down there in the hands of somebody The further south you go, the That's kind of the rules about it. The closer you are to the The gun runner might have connections, and he might have paid somebody off. Usually if it's a large shipment, he'll have security with By this, I mean people and move with him. You know, some of these to a body shop or they might drive it to one of these beach resorts where you can park your camper there, and that is when the deal happens. That could be where some It could have gotten exchanged but that's when the guns become property of whoever's going to get them. I've seen some of the gun runners put guns into places like Tecate, which is to the east in the desert, and basically in traditional can avoid military Or sometimes they don't even care because they actually paid off It is not an easy process to procure a legal firearm in Mexico. Mexico has a single blanket firearms law. There's a single firearms store in Mexico. If anybody wants a you have to be able to pay and you usually end up and not a lot of ways to unless you belong to a shooting club. And if you belong to a that's a very expensive thing. So, in essence, legal is something that upper-middle-class So people are desperate, usually in Mexico as a civilian, you'll go into the black market. Most of the gun-friendly are usually where these Texas, Arizona, sometimes where person-to-person are more permitted, where gun Somebody will walk into a gun store and buy and purchase a couple of firearms. And some of these things or a place where firearm laws are pretty, you know, pretty open to places like California. is because they're actually being utilized to pay drug loads sometimes. You also have a lot of people ordering some of these firearm which is a new method People will buy some of these and then mail them down to and declarations as far as for accessories, for in a private home, packaged and then sent south There's been many cases military bases in California, for example. Grenades that are clearly coming from military installations and/or are taken from military Every now and then you'll see bigger-caliber equipment down there. The truth is those account for about 70% of illegal firearms found in Mexico in the hands of cartels and murder scenes and in the heads of dead sicarios. The truth is that it's They assassinate political candidates. They use explosives, terror tactics, psychological tactics, they Right now currently that's historically been and a big part of Mexico, but now there's the New Generation Cartel, which is a very new almost guerilla force that has taken over. And with groups like these, they have very specific So they're not only looking for a gold-plated AK-47 anymore, they're actually looking to install on their firearms. They're looking for suppressors to put on a .50-caliber precision You'll see these making a very cool, It's obvious if you have a gun company creating a gold gun for a civilian market that they're trying to tap into a fascination and/or a culture that is currently going to be A narco cultura, or narco culture, is something that's been going The fascination or the treatment of some of these criminal organizations as almost a Robin Hood-type character, where they're robbing from the rich and stealing from the poor. I can't tell you that making guns impossible to get or restricted or illegal, something like you would see in Australia, would be a solution to anything, because guns are already out there. There's a lot of people that want to blame the Like, I think they clearly when it comes to some of the You have the United States basically outsourcing and counter-cartel policy The United States, I would say, should do a better job of keeping track of what that money's Some of the arrests that by American law enforcement sharing some of their like sights, lasers, for accessories for firearms, basically, this is what every now But, again, it's a drop in the bucket with what actually gets through. When we saw some of this Do we tell the same that didn't let us know about all those guns that ended up killing a bunch It was my experience to &quot;Fast and the Furious&quot; in the form of some FN on some of my friends This was an ATF operation. The ATF would approach places of gun sales and keep an eye out for certain types of purchases of firearms. The ATF wanted to let these guns walk so they can track them down to Mexico to see if they can somehow make But realistically, all they did was let almost 2,000 guns walk across the border. And most Mexicans saw that as a major, not only betrayal by the United States, but also a bunch of conspiracy theories started popping up of, you know, why would you introduce so The anti-American sentiment in Mexico is at an all-time high, I think as a Mexican, somebody who was actually born down there and experienced some of the violence that some of these firearms I think the biggest is that these guns, somehow there's a lot of by the Mexican government to stop these guns from The straw purchasers up here I think, yeah, some of those The Mexican government has basically sued a lot of the major American gun manufacturers. The only group legally allowed to sell firearms in So it's interesting that did a lawsuit against but they didn't mention in that lawsuit the people that they Mexico has a very big And it has attempted many times to curtail this corruption by to try and keep police honest. I was put through FBI background checks. I did polygraph testing every year. But even with all of people flipped. And when they left, they didn't hand over their so they would take them with them. I was a Baja police I did that job till it was, till it was time to leave. The corruption levels in the institution that I was in became And anybody that wanted and be honest about it was not in fashion or I had to leave my job in a hurry. There's no retirement, It's a pretty hard job to do. It's a thankless one. But there's a lot of people A lot of people that are honest. A lot of people that never took a dime. I somehow made it out After concluding my 12 I came to the United States, and utilizing some of the that I got from that I've now become a subject-matter expert and do training for civilians, private companies, and the Specifically gun smuggling that killed a lot of the people It definitely has had an effect. Not just on me, but on And I want to give a voice to the countless people down some of the experiences Some of the widows left behind, some of the orphans left behind by some of the conflicts I'm trying to keep that memory and that voice alive for them.