Darth Bane would appreciate our efforts. Darth Bane's early years. Carrying Bane's seminal years. What the circle than by mimicking We weave ourselves into the warp Based on the data I am of being purified into The percentage is consistent By whom, Master? Of no consequence. Could you not shout your In due time, Darth to elevate the properties The probe is running an analysis. Why has it stopped? The M2 unit informs me pocket of gas directly I'm sorry to report, sirs, that the gas is The M2 unit predicts that the Jacks will ignite an explosion The original report made I know nothing of that, sir, What's more, my own programming unusual to find pockets of methane Hurry the probe about excavating The M2 unit recommends employing that very Ask the probe to proceed. Tell the probe to stop. Why are you interfering? The map indicates a more massive You're correct, sir. Droid, did the probe No, sir. The M2 is not responding. Is it still within range? Yes, sir. Then run a communications diagnostic. I have, sir. And all systems are nominal. The unit's refusal to respond Deactivate it. The M2 unit has overridden my command. Impossible! Clearly not, sir. In fact, it is executing a deep-seated Who procured the probe? This isn't the time for questions. It's the ore. I'll go down. This can wait. As you say, master. Continue your attempts I will, sir. To do that, however, What of it? Should I fail in my explosion will surely You've been useful, droid. Thank you, sir. You waste your breath. Master, allow me to lead. Be mindful of your place. What? No! Master. Stop, apprentice. I can bring help. There's time. I'm dying, Darth Plagueis. I did all that I could, master. To be strong in a force oneself to be all-powerful Remember that even in the ethereal Better this way, perhaps, As Darth Bane would have wished. Who supplied the mining probe, master? Subtext. Subtext Mining. I will avenge you. Will you? Of course. You are fated to win the Sith It falls to you to bring And save the rest of the At long last, the mantle is conferred. But I need to warn you. Warn me about what, master? You. Yes, master. You said yourself purpose is the way Go to your grave knowing that you are last And that the new order begins now, and will Bane, for the last time, Yes, and I applaud its skillful Perhaps I was wrong to The dark side guided me Tenebrous. You sensed it, but your lack of Even before we came to Bal'demic? And yet we came. Because we were fated to. You've risked everything to undo me. The entire future of the Sith. My instincts about you I'll find a way home, Tenebrous. As will you. Claim your stake to the dark side. Act now, and be done with this. No oversights this run. We take your meaning, Captain. Ineradicable errors. Dumbass mistakes. I'm serious. This ship operates as a democracy. I'm your captain, because at what is just something Do I ever tell you how to pilot? Do I ever question your No, Captain. Either we turn a profit on this run, or we think about going And don't any of you fool yourselves into Because no bank worth its assets is going No! You are fated to bring the It falls to you to bring and save the rest of the galaxy's You're not listed on the I confess to being a stowaway, Captain. How did you survive in there? Those sea creatures make a comfortable bed. Those creatures are how And right now they aren't I apologize for spoiling The coolant. How did you survive that? We Muuns have three hearts. Two of them are under voluntary control, so I was able to keep my blood circulating Speaking of blood, you're leaking some. The result of an unfortunate accident. But thank you for noticing. We have a medical droid. I'll have it take a look at your injury. That's very kind of you, Captain. You're a long way from the Braxent clan. And probably the last species we'd expect I can well imagine. Kon'meas's spaceport has You couldn't wait, or To be honest, I wish to Are you a fugitive? I do, however, value my privacy. What brought you to Bal'demnic, Muun? I'm not at Liberty to divulge Banking clan investments? Or lawyering. Not all of us are bankers or lawyers. No more than all Togrutas are pacifists. Be better for you if you To avoid being jettisoned from our ship. Captain, I appreciate that you and But perhaps for the two of us could speak Strictly in the interest of I won't be long. We'll be returning soon enough. Thank you, Captain. Enough of the polite jabber. Who are you? And why didn't you leave Bal'demnic Before we go into any of that, suppose I've stood away aboard hope of arranging quick Fortunately for both to reward you And of course I'll cover the cost of You need only quote a reasonable I assure you, Captain, Leaving aside your identity for the Your onward passage is a matter I'm not sure I understand. You are the Woebegone's We're equals aboard this ship. In that case, Captain, I You're going to have to Take as much time as needed. The closer we get to Ithor, How do you know we're bound for Ithor? The same way I know I'm not a telepath, Captain Lah. After I selected your ship I sliced into Bal'demic's spaceport network. Why the Woebegone then? I don't gamble, Captain, unless I know That's not gambling. When have you ever known a Muun to do that? When have you ever known a Muun, period? All right then, when have you ever What's your gut telling Is he willing to cover the He's as slick as they come But either we take him back to or we drop him off at our first stop Or we could just jettison him now. We don't know if he told someone His disappearance could So, what's the verdict, Captain? I think we should get him off You don't want to even discuss I've never been on the Braxent Run. Is he willing to cover the He said he would. Then maybe we take him to Ithor. If he proves to be a could consider taking Certainly wouldn't hurt to get I don't know. I'll go one step further. I mean, this Muun could be a Weren't you just saying that no bank would Well, Muunilinst is the bank. And this Muun can provide Our reward for years Meaning what? We hold him for ransom? We don't have to call it that. We've never done that. Well, once, maybe. But we're not about to do it again. I agree. Same. Okay, so I was just thinking out loud. Captain, if I may, it is regarded to travel unaccompanied In fact, most Muun are any purpose other than to That's exactly what I There has to be some financial Some major deal in the works A construction project, maybe. Let FourDee finish. Go ahead. It has yet to be determined just Suppose, however, the is going to impact Should word spread that lent their support to the then what might become of the You may wish to include calculations regarding an So, are we expecting in case our services are What about what the Muuns They've got a reach as What are they going to do? Downgrade our portfolios? Freeze our assets? Ruin our credit rating? Our only assets are this for doing what we Goes back to what I more than what he These banking clan types But we've got ourselves a live Muun. And no matter who he is or I guarantee you he's years of dealing in Captain? I'm not buying any of this. You think he's dangerous? Muuns are cowards. The lot of them. My gut says otherwise. Here's a compromise. If he's wanted, we return him. Otherwise, we negotiate a price That sounds reasonable. Do you, uh, want backup? No. No. We're going to have to keep Does that mean you've I wouldn't go that far. We've decided we need before we agree to And since you seem reluctant to tell Captain, I've told you all We're dropping out of hyperspace. To we who dwell in the Force, Our only actions of significance are those I can't permit this, Captain. You'll have to. Don't, Captain. No! You dishonor your heritage You could have used the Force I've not only seen If you so little will, then you What name do you respond to? 114D, sir. Can you pilot this ship, 114D? I can, sir. Do you wish me to relocate the survivors Leave them. Captain Lah remarked that I do, sir. Set a course for these coordinates, then Anything else, sir? Prepare food and drink. I'm famished. Sir, we are approaching the How do you come to be Formerly, I served the needs of In what capacity? Research, in addition range of surgeries on Thus your many appendages. Yes, sir. But the ones I wear when I became the so that I might better serve And how did you become I believe, sir, that I was awarded for payments due for the It is also my belief that the But Captain Lah decided to keep you. Yes, sir. She decided to keep me. I'm sorry to say that I her reasons, and I That's a good quality in a droid. I understand how it could be, sir. Transmit this code over the com. Unidentified freighter, deep space demo and Give us a moment to Holding fast while you authenticate. Freighter, you are cleared for docking. You will accompany me in the landing bay. Raise the boarding ramp behind us No one is to board the I understand, sir. Magister Damask, I had no foreknow- This isn't a social call. Of course, Magister. Regardless, do you wish me to Is he on station? No, sir, but he can be reached by com. That won't be necessary. I'll contact him myself. As you wish, Magister. What services can the station provide? This ship is to be sealed and slagged. Without salvaging anything? I said sealed and slagged. Do you need to hear it a third time? Do you know who you're talking to, Muun!? Who is this callow pup? Pup? He means no disrespect, Magister. Boss Cabra's youngest progeny. What are you called, pup? Answer him, and with due respect. Darnada! Darnada. Perhaps young Darnada from endangering his His brashness reflects Trust that your orders regarding I will also need a change of Can we provide the pilot Muunilinst. Of course, Magister. And what are your Is the droid to be slagged How much of your memory can be wiped without I'm modular in design. My entirety, or according to Remain with the ship I will expect a complete At your service, Magister Damask. We came as soon as If you had contacted us from Deep a ship, rather than have you rely No one seems to believe that I'm I don't understand. It's not important that you dispatching a ship would only You were expected days ago. Events of an unforeseen nature A successful journey, You assume correctly. We shouldn't tarry here any longer You're limping. Are you injured? Healing. Make no further mention of it. We could postpone the gathering. No. It would take place as scheduled. I'm relieved to hear your guests are already The droid will ride with us. A new acquisition? A door prize of sorts. You'll be going to your Directly to the island. I'll make the necessary arrangements. Are we secure in here? Completely. Rugess Nome is dead. The Bith? How? Where? Of no relevance. But that won't be for it's unlikely that his We'll allow a standard year to pass. Then we'll petition the probate At the very least, for whatever You are the executor But there are several antiques I'll prepare an inventory. In the meantime, I want you to familiarize Once you have, you're to entire northeast peninsula Purchase as much property as you can from I'll provide you with specific coordinates. Are we venturing into When the time is right, use I suspect that you will have to go all the The indigenes will be with, but I'm confident Bargain might you mean it, Bal'demnic is that important? A hunch. What can we expect at the gathering? Gardulla has requested an audience. I'm not in the habit of She asks your help in mediating a dispute. With whom? The Desilijic Clan. This has been brewing for some time. What else? Representatives from Good. Hollow transmissions Members of the Trade Federation and the There's no pleasing any of them. There's another small Extend a personal invitation I can't recall having Does this have anything For a time they advised Nome. Make certain that they understand If the Bith partnered with them, One would think. But in fact, I don't see You will come to find yourself I'm certain I will, Magister Damask. In time we'll see to appendages restored so I look forward to it, Magister. I recognize that you related to species but I must confess to the examples of fauna and few of the arcane Is this data available for upload? Some portion of it. Then the task will require I'm aware of that. Are there some urgency? I understand, sir. Is there specific Start with this. I have multiple listings One defines the Sith as to the study of the but guided by different principles. That's close enough for now. Magister Damask, if I may be so bold The goal is to extend my life indefinitely. To conquer death. I have access to data on alleged elixirs but all living things At present, 114D. I have experience in organ genotherapy, and carbonite Then you merely scratched the surface. My blood, my essence, The midichlorians, they defy my will. Despite my amplified powers, The ancient Sith immortality, yet their Darth Bane had referred to sorcery as Yet his disciples believe that essence Is it their power that wanes, or has None of this amounted to their survival. Corporal or not, I will achieve it. Nothing less than my body I've been admiring your Particularly the Twi'lek singers. Perhaps you could help me procure some. We've a Twi'lek who supplies the females. On to business, then. A busy schedule affords me I plan to make a grab for Tatooine, Magister, An arid world in the Arkanis By support, I presume we I'm aware that you But there are profits to be made Not moisture farming, then? You mock me. I tease you, Gardulla. I know little about Tatooine was heir to an ecological And that its vast deserts ne'er-do-Wells, scoundrels, I've heard it said that and that beings who reside Fortunately, longevity But I don't want four enemies Enemies who would like nothing The Desilijic clan. They are precisely the reason I and from the likes of Jabba Desilijic Tiure, and the rest. With your financial assistance, I know that you have befriended Hutts It's true that Drixo and Progga But their successes came at a high cost. What are you offering in A podrace course that will and on your own, you In addition, the renaissance of an of thousands of gamblers to Tatooine And I'm willing to take A silent partner? As you wish. In addition to a percentage arrange for Boss Cabra to The Dug crime boss? You know the one. I can't make promises, Magister. Black Sun is deeply entrenched are grooming Alexi Garyn to They may not appreciate or Find some way to allow Kabra Black Sun, and we will support This very night, I can arrange for the Bank of Aargau, who will advance I accept your terms, Magister Damask. Promise me, Magister Damask, that you Our dealings with the than our dealings with Rumors abound of Gardulla's on Tatooine, and enter into Surely you haven't come all this Promises were made, Magister. And fulfilled. As a means of from podracing, the cost of That sounds more like a We will take it up with the steering it a starting point for discussion. The favoritism you show We merely help them secure The Directorate was doing perfectly well And in exchange for what? shipping monopoly they What's fair is fair. Fairness has no part in it. You're interested only in having the Even a great hike for holdings and the Trade He can't let him go. If we're to benefit from Senate, we'll need to find I disagree. We need to find a way We were stunned to receive We had no idea we were We keep a close watch you've been enjoying our More than you know, Magister. More than I know. That's very funny indeed. Allow us to show you how we execute some We'd be honored. Hold it! We're directly beneath Each cargo symbolizes Republic. Practices we It's whole theater, you understand. Obviously a real crowd pleaser, Magister. Then you must join in. Climb aboard. Go ahead. Climb aboard. Have we done something A good question. Have you? Precisely. How did we come to your notice? A mutual friend brought you to our You recently supplied him with a We can make this right. Then be quick about it. Plasma! An untapped Enough to provide energy Where? On what world? Naboo! Naboo! Something of a hermit planet in the Mid Relatively close to Tatooine, in fact. Once a source for the veermoks we had Who hired you to conduct the mining survey? A faction in opposition to This Naboo is ruled by a royal? A king. His detractors wish to see This plasma reservoir is Unique among known worlds. Transport them to the most remote And make certain they remain there Magister, the eastern It's possible that one of our guests We think we have something. Will you be alright, Magister? Go, but keep me informed. A Force user. A Jedi spy. A Bith? Tenebrous? You're well-trained. I sense the I knew I could draw you out, Darth He made you in his image. You're an old fool. He took you as an apprentice. I am Darth Venamis. Darth. We'll see about that. Your death will legitimize Your master left orders for you to kill me. Even now he awaits my return. Awaits? Tenebrous is dead. You wish it was so. What's more, he died by my hand. Impossible. How powerful can you be if you Even now your thoughts In killing you, I will become the Sith Lord he The Sith he wanted me to be. But enough of this. Now make a worthy effort. Yes. No. Yield. I submit, Darth Plagueis. I accept You presume too much, Venamis. Around Is it true, master? Dead and deservedly so. The future of the Sith no longer hinges on A new Sith will rule less by brute And what is to become of me, master? Consume it. I know this plant. It will poison me. It will. You may be Tenebrous's His brain continues to recuperate from His physical condition, That's good. In the same way that to plunge into a river, events give rise to the current of the Force, You are such a one. You are of our blood, Hego. But we In truth, and in ways come to understand, We Sith are an unseen Where the Sith once wore But the Force works through us all For the present, the more covert we Our revenge will be achieved not Our campaign has been from the leaders of Something has to be done to Counter-allegations made public by way toward undoing the initial But a new wariness has strengthening the position Audio cancellation. Are all the Naboo as his suit and They are traditionalists, The style of dress and facial to the regalia of Queen Elsinore den They are not, after all, In addition to humans, amphibious species Perhaps indigenous, perhaps not, What was the nature of the First, they leaked word of the but the revelation failed because several members of the electorate Then, when they learned of our the nobles accused us of selling Naboo a shady extra-system You understand, Magister, overcome a long history of The royal houses realize and are now advocating for Naboo to oversee But, frankly, we lack both the funds How were the nobles able to We haven't been able We need to consider organization may be The royal houses need to the business of transgalactic Naboo will need funding, logistical support, and it is precisely Damask Holdings can Actual funding would come from and other conglomerates would be involved and in the construction size to handle the ships Bon Tapalo will certainly want to You mentioned certain counter-allegations Yes, and I confess that we are as It seems that our group the advice and support Roughly sixty standard of a war between the our monarch was killed, that some members of that opposed Tapalo a mercenary group to intervene in the war Fortunately, the conflict was resolved In fact, as a result of has since been an elected You say that the information The information had to have been Veruna is correct. We were able to information to the young In the hope of avoiding a scandal the head of the royal house has chanced on the information when actually only the family archives What is the name of the royal family? Palpatine. We may have found a potential ally, someone willing to keep us informed An inside man, as it were. We wish to visit Naboo in order to A public appearance refute any allegations Then all of us will have something to gain. It will be our great honor to As I said weeks before, we And as I told you then, we Especially you, I suspect. Aye. When the time is right, you Clearly you've put a good but is there no room in your The last thing we want is projects be seen as Our partners wish to work closely with and the Theed Space Vessel to make certain that the improvements When the construction phases are completed, the refinery and the spaceports Yet the opposition contends indebted to the Banking Only until the Plasma begins to flow. I understand your trepidation, but the question you whether you can win the I suppose so, Magister. But perhaps it's better rather than ascend to Dishonor? Have we crossed the galaxy to be insulted? Wait! We mean no insult to Damask Holdings. Yes, we must be mindful of the but we shouldn't allow cripple our chance of and raising the profile of I suggest we act boldly. To avoid being perceived I say we use this unprecedented visit that we and we alone are capable of entering and others that will allow achieve favorable world and provide for tax and endless opportunities for We must seize this Do you have anything Only that we couldn't better than Theed's future Hear, hear. One day soon, Veruna I'm looking for a student named Palpatine. I know him. Do you know where I Is he perhaps attending a class? He comes and goes. Maybe I saw Maybe? I think it was him. Can you direct me there? Young human, a moment of your time. Palpatine. How do you know my name? I know more about you than just your name. Normally, I take exception of people And since I know something about What is it you know about me? You're Hugo Damask. The President? My father said that you were coming Your group is showing Did your father say that I might Why would he? And what exactly is it you want with me? I believe we have something in common. I very much doubt that. Perhaps I'll allow reason Palpatine. Who was the man you My mentor in the youth program. His name is Vidar Kim. He's an aide to Naboo's Republic senator. And will likely succeed her. And not a supporter of Tapalo. Are you interested participation in the I'm not sure what I want But you've some interest in politics. I didn't say that. I said I wasn't sure. I'm a stranger to Theed. Would you consider showing me around? Listen, I'm... Theed is a beautiful city. If you like museums. You've no interest in art. I enjoy art. But I'm more of a minimalist. In all things. I wish Theed weren't so crowded. I wish the winters were milder. I wish our king had fewer That sounds like a political statement. It is simply my personal opinion. They're not mutually exclusive. What are you attempting to draw out of me? It has come to my attention release of some information How? That isn't important right now. What is, is that you did so wishes of your father, your Are you planning to divulge this? What might happen if I did? To begin with, my father would murder me. Literally. He would disown me. It's true then. You and your father find sides of the issues that It would be far stranger to find I want to see Naboo break with the past. I want us to belong to the greater galaxy. Is it wrong to want to play an important Governments rise and fall. You have a better idea of I'm just an old Muun who Just how old are you? In human years I would be well over 100. I envy you that. Why? All the things you've What would you do? Everything. This vehicle is yours? A prototype patrol-grade Flash I race competitively. Do you win? Why else would I bother racing? Who knows? Perhaps you'll go into banking one day. Unlikely. Magister Damask. I suppose there are Credits don't interest me. I'm beginning to wonder just what does. Palpatine, I wonder how you Damask Holdings, I mean. In what capacity? To be perfectly blunt, as a kind of spy. I won't say that you and I Because clearly, and about architecture, you My group, however, is less it is in Naboo's plasma, and what If you had phrased it any differently, I And you accept? You're willing to update us machinations your father's Only if I can report directly to you. Is that your wish? It is. Then by all means, you'll I'll see to it that the necessary I could take you for a ride tomorrow. If you have time, I mean. Show you some more of If I have your word, you won't go too fast. Only fast enough to keep it interesting. Exhilarating. Maybe I'll become a professional racer. And Naboo might expect more of I ignore the expectations of others. Was the speeder a gift from your father? A bribe, but one I accepted. Does he approve of your racing? My father hasn't ridden with me for years. He doesn't know what he's missing. It has nothing to do with my talents. When I was younger, I was responsible At the time, my father But he eventually relented. What made him change his mind? I wore him down. I'm sorry. I didn't know. There are some ancient ruins in there. But that's Gungan territory. Have you had any dealings with them? Personally, no. But I have seen the ones that What are your thoughts about them? Aside from the fact that they are Aside from that? I don't mind them. So long as they keep to the Not get in the way. Exactly. There are many worlds in of who has the upper That's because most beings Think about what the accomplish under the I have given thought to that, Palpatine. What does the Senate do in It dispatches the Jedi to on without addressing The Jedi could rule the I suppose we should be grateful I don't view it like that. I think the Jedi have dedicated They wait for the Senate to tell them when When in fact they could their will on the entire I'd have more respect for them if they did. Do you grant your father respect when That's different. The reason I don't not half as intelligent If he could admit to his Before long, I would own this human. House Palpatine is wealthy. But not nearly as wealthy And not nearly as influential Despite my father's attempts to take he lacks the political our house to a position and along with it the awareness to Naboo to exploit its matchless Instead he and his cronies, political ineptitude, want to Does your mother share his views? Only because she Only because he has As he has my well-behaved brothers and And yet to my father, And yet you honor your Well, for a time I thought about I haven't rejected the I've rejected the name I was given. But not for the grandiose Just the opposite actually. I'm certain that you, of all Could this Palpatine be the one? He could. Of course I understand. But when you were young, did Especially when they ran I never asked why this or why that. What if this or what if that. I simply responded to my own determination. Some of us are required Have you picked a winner, Magister? I believe I have. Why is it that we never see They're having the talent for it. The favorite to win today is the Perhaps Gardulla will be pod racers in the course she So it is true. You support the Hutt. It's simply business. Is this the purpose of your visit? Yes. I don't... don't compound the offense. From whom did you learn I don't. From whom? We were approached by unexplained disappearance The ones I encountered They were in fine health I am certain they were. Why did Subtext approach you? To inform us that you are First, you strike a deal with Gardulla And now, Naboo's plasma your offer to increase the cost So why shouldn't we have yours on Naboo, when you You harm yourself by The Protectorate could as the Trade Federation We refuse to be demeaned. Again, I remind you, Magister, We are not without allies We can crush any legislation We'll arrange for contracts to languish We'll put one of our own We'll deny the Trade Federation's shipping We'll turn the Dugs loose onto the moons. And you'll never get On the contrary, I Order the Sun Guard to retrieve the Execute them and have their of Subtex Mining's corporate Curious, Ars Veruna was Hold it right there. Which one of you is Magister Damask? That would be me. What is the meaning of this? Someone important wishes to speak with you. We only ask your cooperation and follow us. Ah, I see now. You need not worry, Hill. I will be gone shortly. Today, I fully intend to Beautiful work, isn't it? As is the view. My, I'm so glad that you decided to accept The presence of armed guards suggested Well, they were for I never thought of Naboo For some, it is. But now that you are here, That is Varykino, a Once owned by the poet Omar Berenko, and Are you perhaps familiar with Berenko's Sadly, no. I'll arrange for you to be A copy in the original text would be fine. I'm fluent in your language. Perhaps you'll take up a study Let me tell you a short story Seventy years ago, some two the Gungans found themselves embroiled in Fortunately, the Gungans prevailed, though not without many deaths and Very little was ever cause of the war or the But I'm willing to let you in on in the hope that you'll The reason for the war was plasma, and the houses that mercenary army were House When my grandfather challenged Tapalo's and eventually succumbed to The duel took place just there. How utterly romantic and human. Ah, perhaps you failed to grasp Tapalo, Veruna, and thugs are interested at whatever cost in Naboo. The discovery of a plasma was the worst thing that And now, they mean to with the aid of influential This is why Tapalo must never be king. It would appear that the For now, yes. But we have plans for bringing Beginning with an struck with the banking I wasn't aware that it had. Why do you think we stopped We still wield enough power to And you may as well The Republic Senate has been to meddle with and destabilize Naboo have a legend about six House Palpatine is one of those gates. Damask... And we Muuns represent chaos. We are not opposed to having Naboo join the But not now. And not like this. Tapalo's promise of tax Those are the very tactics primitive worlds into The Naboo admire philosophers, Tapalo's election to the throne The defense of Naboo. The poem you mentioned. What about it? Whatever became of the author, Berenko. He was abducted by Are you threatening me here in my own home? I thought we were discussing history. I only meant to ask what might happen if And Tapalo wins despite your best efforts. I've already told you And here is why. Because you're going to tell and the Trade Federation that That you found better slavers and spice You're a very long way from I strongly suggest that you the Chommell Sector as Lest anyone fall victim I take your meaning, Cosinga Palpatine. And one more thing. I don't know precisely a keen interest in But you're to have no Your son has great potential. Potential I don't want to We're moving him out I'd been given to believe that But then the Gungans Enough of this! Guard! Get him out of my sight! I knew you would come, Magister. How did you know? I just knew. And just how often are Almost always. Curious. He doesn't know you. We'll have to keep this meeting brief. Your father may have He's monitoring my off-world communicators. But even he wouldn't have me watched. You underestimate him, Palpatine. I spoke with him at Convergence. The lake house? When? How? He threatened, too, to He can't do this. He hasn't the right. I won't allow it. Can this human truly been when in fact he seems You have to help me. How can I help you? He's your father. Tell me what to do. Tell me what you would do. You could use this incident as a Naboo doesn't honor that practice. I'm in his way until I'm 21. The legalities of And they shouldn't interest you. I speak of freeing yourself. Of completing the act of recreation you You mean... disobey him? If that's as far as you're willing to go. And without thought or consequences. I... Uncertainty is the first Courage comes next. What would I do? What do you want to do, Palpatine? If the choice was yours and yours alone. I don't want to live as Do you fancy yourself extraordinary? I... want to live an extraordinary life. Make no apologies for your desires. Extraordinary in what way? Why are you holding back? If you're going to dream, then dream large. You hinted that you I have an interest in politics. How deep does your interest go? To what position do you aspire? Republic Senator? Monarch of Naboo? Supreme Chancellor of the Republic? You'll think less of me if I tell you. Now you underestimate I want to be a force for change. I want to rule. There, he admits it. And who better than a human while an immortal Sith If that can't happen, if If not power, then nothing. Suppose I said that I would be What would you expect of me in return? Nothing more than that you that you grant yourself whatever is necessary at whatever risk to and to full expectation of I want to tell you something about my past. I was born and raised not on And not to my father's primary I only experienced Muunilist as a Due to strict population laws, only someone of my non-indigenous half-clan Despite this, my father's lacking the social grace The Muuns detest non-conformity, My siblings were model citizens, insular, It angered me to be downtrodden, but rejected They had to accept me member, entitled to my But I had to prove my financial forecasts and I passed my tests and trials, On his deathbed, he advised me to even using harsh means if needed, as lesser My father died of a rare genetic disease, Panicked by the siblings searched for and found one who claimed to have a cure. Confident they had avoided the including my clan mother, and then focused Little did they realize that and the treatments he provided Gradually, they began to I watched from afar, gloating, even and indifferent at rituals that Eventually, I outlived all of them, and inherited everything. You think me a monster. You underestimate me, Magister. Palpatine, your father is here. When did he arrive? An hour ago. They didn't tell me. You already cleared Chandrila customs, Just discharging your orders? Is that it? It's a job, kid. Why wasn't I informed of this beforehand? Your mother and siblings are aft. I'll join Our course is set for Chommell Minor. For the foreseeable future, you're going Clothes and other items we thought you'd You and Janus got along A change of scene will do you good. You decided this without What about my university courses? My obligations to the youth program? That has all been arranged. You can partner with Janus The Greejatus' hatred of non-humans Their chauvinism nonewithstanding. I approve of them a lot more No. This is for your own good. No. Father of Lies, how would Have you ever even cared? This is about my friendship Is this what you think it is? Damask is merely using information about our Of course he is. And yet you continue to befriend him. Would you consider the rape Hego Damask is a blessing. He's powerful, influential, and brilliant. More so than any of Head and shoulders above you It begins to sound to goes beyond mere You know it does. You are using this to put Which wouldn't be necessary slightest ability to conduct My social infractions and trespasses. I refuse to go over old ground. You're easy on yourself, considering I have brought no more shame We're not discussing me. All right, leave me on Chommell Minor! But I won't remain there. I can see to it that you do. By assigning some of in line, I'm a lot smarter After what you already for Tapalo, there can Have you no idea what's at stake for Naboo? And for you, your mistress's And you will get the lofty position It'll be so good to have you gone. Finally, you admit it. You're as much a mystery to me Because you lack the Grandiose as ever. Grandiose, in fact. No one does. I know that you are of my blood, because But in truth, I don't know who or what you've Yes, there is. That glow I have been on the As if you want to murder me. Murder has always been You've merely been waiting for I don't need anyone's permission. Precisely. You're an animal at heart. King of the beasts, father. I've known it since the first And you fought me with the strength I was born mature, fully Aided you more than you know. Enough to want to kill you from the start. Well then you had better do it now. What was that? GUARDS! Oh father, where do If the Force birthed you, then I curse it! As I do. Cosinga?! We are all in this now. If the force birthed you, then I curse it! Magister Damask, there is Hill? No, it is the young human, Palpatine. Where are you? I'm not sure. You're in a starship. A family ship. Read aloud the navicomputer coordinates. Rimward of Exodeen, along the Hydian Way. Contact the Sun Guard. ship and prepare yourself Yes, Magister. Are you capable of The autopilot is engaged. Tell me what happened. My father arrived After the launch, I learned that I was Tell me what happened. I killed them. Over and done with. Now to read them in Did anyone on Chandrila Only the guard. And he's dead. We need to return you quietly I'm sending help. I droid among them. Offer no explanation of But follow every command without question. You're not coming with them? I will see you soon enough, Palpatine. But the ship... the evidence... I'll make No one will ever learn of this event. I trust him. And Palpatine, congratulations You said soon. A standard week is not soon. I had business to attend to. Was I supposed to to the predicament Forgive me for believing Together? How so? Am I not your agent, on Naboo? You did provide us with I did more than that, Magistar. You share as much responsibility Has it really been only a week? Or you seem greatly changed. Were the Chandrila and Naboo As you promised. Where there We searched extensively, but found nothing. But it is you who have changed, Did I suspect that you and your Of course. But you seem to be implying that the confrontation You are lying. What an odd way to put it. But since you've grasped the Yes, I deliberately goaded you. You came to Chandrila to ensure Once more, correct? You used me. There was no other way. Was any of your story Some of it. But that scarcely matters now. You asked for my help, and I provided it. Your father attempted to thwart you, And by killing him, I have My father was right about you. And you're free and wealthy. So what now, young human? I continue to have great hopes for you. But before I could tell you Free from what? From fear of expressing your true nature. You know nothing of my true nature. You never asked about the killings. I've never been one for grim details. But if you need to I executed them with these. And with the power of my A weapon strong enough to warp bulkheads I was death itself. Oh, what a cautious But what an ally he might make. What an ally. I'm not sure I know what Have you always had such powers? I've always known I was Here is where the path Here and now you need to decide or to venture courageously and no matter the consequences. You could devote trying to make sense Or you could consider a different option. It's a dark path into a trackless Not without a guide, at any rate. But it is also the shortest, quickest In your studies, have you A Jedi sect, weren't they? The result of a kind of family feud. Yes, yes. In some ways, just that. But more, the Sith are destined to return and overthrow the Jedi. The Sith are considered to be evil. Evil? What is that? Moments ago, you You said you were death itself. Are you evil, then, or are you simply Who gives more shape to sentient history? The good, who adhere to the tried and true, or those who seek to rouse beings A storm you are, but a much-needed and prune the galaxy of dead weight. Is this the wisdom you offer? The tenets of some arcane cult? The test of its value is whether If I had wanted that, I parents years ago to instead of transferring me And of what possible of your nature would You're heartless, and without shame or empathy. More, you're a murderer. Careful, boy. Sadly, you are not the only being in this I can sense it. What you sense is a fraction Might I be of some use to the Sith? Possibly. Perhaps even likely. But we would have to wait and see. Where are the Sith? Just now, there is only one. Unless, of course, it I do wish to join you. Then kneel before me, and pledge that it is destiny forever with the It is my will to join my destiny Then it is done. From this day forward, the truth of Sidious. In time, you will come you are one with the and that your power But just now, and until abiding submission is It was on this world that I first became Unlike temperate Muunilist, but I adapted. By age eight, I could venture But I haven't brought you If you were adapted to these conditions, If you were an aquatic, I would The true divide between the Sith and but for you between naked cold and warm. Distress and comfort. Entropy and predictability. Your blood is close to frozen. Too much time here and you will die. That is what you would When the dark side has sniffed you will think, I will die. And it's true, you will You must take deeply into yourself the You must feel it in the because it will never be this. Do you remember killing them? Y-yes. Do you? Yes. Very good. I can feel your move I can't have your will tempered You were brought into being to lead. Therefore you must see everything has to move you to your destined place. This is our galaxy, Sidious. Our reality. In this pitiless place Even a Jedi can surpass of fear or hatred and But no Jedi who kills in anger or merely rationalizing their actions. The Sith embrace the dark from the start, focusing on power without excuses. We stalk the force like hunters, rather than surrender like I am your torturer, Sidious. You will lie and making yourself shine to the dark side. So appease me, Sidious. Tell me again how you killed them. If you don't already want The urge to kill one's My strength, wisdom, and This dynamic set by Darth Bane Then we must work together, without Until then, you must prove your Transform your hatred into How much longer, Master? Perhaps a moment, perhaps an eternity. Stop thinking about the future A Sith apprentice learns pain A Sith goes for the throat just as I meant, how much longer Hard to tell. Your body isn't meant to It is easily injured and slow to heal. Your olfactory and tactile but your auditory and visceral Have I no strengths, Master? Of course, you have the force, More, you have the though we need to hold violence serves some We are not butchers, Sidious, We are architects of the future.