Thank you to Policygenius for supporting PBS. I think that life is the most fascinating, and I think that's uncontroversial. I most complex structure that we know of. but we are a long way from understanding how that really, if you wanna ask what's the meaning of life, and secondly, we understand consciousness I think it's a little unfair that everything explain things about the origin of the universe So, are you saying that it's not the inherent poetry in my construction of sentences 60/40, we'll call it 60/40. We'll go with that. 60/40, I'll take that. I recently sat down with Science Communicator, Brian Cox. Now, he's a physicist, but our alien worlds, the strangeness of black holes, or to be alive. Now, life is one of those things But what is it exactly, that So maybe by looking to physics and asking some universe, we can understand the meaning Hey smart people, Joe here. Y'all might know the biological sciences to be exact. So why would Well, next to why are we here? And where is here? there. And it's one that people have asked But in every era before today, it's typically new idea, just in the past couple of centuries, And one of the things that inspired this change in living thing that has ever existed is a product of from the swirling of the galaxy to the life, they all have one thing in common. They all a textbook, you get to some paragraph that lists organized into cells or that it can grow. That it get this like checklist of what is life. Then I realize that there are exceptions to these things. Soap bubbles have very particular just the water and the chemicals dissolved and stability. Just consider a simple flame. and even form complex structures, but you As you said, biology, that's what I've that is the science of exceptions, isn't it? And so it makes me think that what we totally insufficient for really Yeah, absolutely. So I'm surprised and curious, why a physicist I think, ultimately, cosmology, so what I do, profound questions. The first question I get when people, from audiences is, &quot;What does it all you are saying?&quot; And that word, meaning, doesn't meaning exists in the universe, 'cause it means said, I remember there was a great And he showed that the arts and the music and These are some of the things that hydrogen atoms But in any case, that's true, isn't it? It's true. that life is absolutely fundamental So, let's look at life through Carl Sagan's and see what we can learn. This view actually goes back to the physicist, Erwin &quot;What Is Life?&quot; Schrodinger asked, if we very small things like atoms, maybe we can use bunches of those atoms can form complex different approach versus someone like Charles ecosystem sized lens. My conversation with Brian can help us understand what makes life different universe. Energy is the first big thing that is what is a useful definition for energy in I mean energy is, it's notoriously, I mean kinetic energy is half mv squared, and things then you end up saying, it's the component of the It's a thing that's conserved. That's why it's This is a deeply strange truth about the universe. From the Big Bang to today, all of the energy can change from one form to another, but all there that energy has been getting more If you imagine a cup of coffee and you delicately so that's an ordered system. So, we have created underneath. And then if you sit there and maybe and it mixes up so it becomes more disordered. But in the process, you get complex structures, So, a pattern emerges spontaneously These patterns can be so complex that no other like this one. But eventually as time goes on, perfectly boring cup of coffee. And the The universe started off in a highly ordered more disordered and increasingly boring state. The described by the second law of thermodynamics. is evolving towards increasing entropy, aka more And in the process, there can be swells in in the coffee. So, we're almost like an inevitable I think maybe the basic understanding that most that it's supposed to run the other direction. interesting and complex. They get more or No, you can have local complexity emerge. So, in in entropy, so things can get more ordered, as the environment has to get less ordered. That's how do you cool the inside? That's making order it, it turns into ice crystals. So by cooling emerge. But how you do that? Well, you've got the refrigerator is not something to do with the which is throwing disorder out into your to do that come from? It comes from a power or it might be nuclear power, whatever it is. and you're probably gonna say, &quot;Well, okay then, And it's a very good question, it's the Big is why was the universe born with a reservoir? You unravel over billions of years and allow complex Our Sun, like every other star in the universe, in a universe becoming more disordered. that original order from the beginning of the giving it up over billions of years, in a more You probably know that all life on Earth today through photosynthesis, or indirectly, or eating the things that eat the But ultimately it's the Sun, our little clump that's basically the furnace powering the this reservoir from the very first moments of the Yeah, so it's a good approximation. Now, the it receives from the Sun. 'Cause if it didn't, it is sitting in that cascade of energy. And it's just siphoning a bit This is a really important and kind of entropy, not all energy is created equal. Earth in the form of infrared radiation energy. But that the original sunlight. When a leaf absorbs visible it uses this order to do interesting things and to make sugars, then it pays the universe infrared radiation. The Sun isn't just order. When cells borrow that ordered DNA and ATP, we send back what we owe as But it is true that as you sit there, you're you personally. Because what you're radiating disorder out into in order that you can live and process information making the universe more disordered as faster than it would be if you didn't exist. So life doesn't just run on energy. It runs how can you use order to actually do stuff? DNA. For a minute, let's leave thermodynamics ways of harnessing energy to do work, the water not much is gonna happen. There's no current more accurately on the molecular level, That's disordered energy. You can't we have a situation where all the water is This moving water has more order. So we can Believe it or not, this is essentially what living energy to power molecular machines. Only, instead protons. The details are complex and definitely food using oxygen, we borrow some of its ordered Or in a chloroplast, ordered energy from the And when we let these piled up protons flow out, [Brian] Then sticks this little thing in it called and then you do all this stuff. It's literally a We're sort of glorified like turning water wheels, they're just very small is just a way to use the Sun to rip water apart same thing. It's a little bag that rips things that we can wash them through this water wheel things in cells. Literally why the mitochondria One of the great commonalities in all living thinking in particular of the fact that all living as far as I'm aware, that's common to everything. Believe it or not, this universal trait can give Or at least where it started. In the rocks pockets with lots of protons on one side rivers are a natural energy source that many powered the first transition from I tend to think of it, initially, the origin biochemistry, which it must have been. You have to chemistry gets sufficiently complex Information, this is the other key living things from nonliving things. So in addition to the energy or molecular machines example of complexity and order hiding in DNA and the genetic code. One of the biology is that there is a physical molecule DNA. The information is in the structure. It's and that lets us extract some meaning from it Now, spoiler alert, eventually you and me and itself will go on, thanks to this information that information with you. I share some with instructions for living are a form of information My picture is, that really the Earth is a giant is stored in little local objects. So there in blades of grass and so on. 'Cause what we're gradual change in where the information But this brings up one more big problem. And we could somehow go back through time, meeting to single celled microbes, all the way back to only chemical reactions. Well, at what point It's a label, isn't it? It's semantics, I think. It reminds me of the debate in astronomy 'Cause I first of all, don't care, but that's They spend ages having meetings, and defining what that orbits around a star. It might not clear its and so on, but it's just an interesting world. truly understand how life could begin, when we see is so interesting and so important, because It's interesting to note that if we're interested be easier to see that on Mars than it is on Earth The only evidence we have is in our genome. It's by 3.8 billion years or so from the first living little geology and no weathering for well over we may well have more pristine evidence of how it Of course not everyone thinks that these had a professor in college, a biochemistry useful definition for life well, science &quot;It was a question for poets.&quot; And I Our presence in the universe is probably the most, well it's amongst the most interesting most important and interesting scientific And that doesn't just mean, how did the universe how did atoms get complex enough to start the categories of objects that are created by the nature. Another one are stars. So we understand, stars and we know what we're talking about. So I say, well, let's understand the origin of the a structure in the way that stars are a structure. profound question, how did life emerge in this question, what does it mean to live a finite, Then I immediately say that I don't know At least you're honest. Or actually, When we look at everything that we know it down to protons and the movement or that the letters of the genetic code are that can be uncomfortable. I mean, being Nature forces you into Often, when you look at it. And that's good I hope that that idea applies to life. And it's what sets you at the edge of when of human knowledge. I mean stepping forward is I think it's one of the great unanswered questions that's what I'm interested in. I'm interested but we have a chance of groping towards an answer. Stay curious. If you enjoyed this episode about Professor Brian Cox and all you can check him out here. Or just Thank you to Policygenius for supporting PBS. not an insurance company. Policygenius combines and education library on all and guidance from humans to get you covered. For Policygenius offers info and quotes for can get personalized quotes, apply online, Additionally, Policygenius offers advice from handles the paperwork, scheduling, and negotiating as part of the service. For more information, And as always, a huge thank you to everyone a way that you can support this show directly. this science and you wanna see more of it. If support the show, check out the links down in the And one more thing before you go, what can video games? How did Anime become a $25billion on goats? Those are all great questions. And answers those questions and so many more, folks that have had a major impact out over on &quot;PBS Voices.&quot; There's a link in our Really? Really? Really? Erwin Schrodinger. [Man] Schnell! Schnell! If you must have the Erwin Schrodinger, remain inquisitive. [Man] Nailed it.