stop Catch Him Catch Him Don't run Don't run Don't run Brother Xiaoshan You get up quickly Don't run The bandits are chasing us soon. Go fast The boss Not good The army surrounded the village What If I can't catch it tonight Marshal Lu's son is held hostage We all have to die Chase hurry up Don't mind me, baby. You go quickly Go fast Brother Xiaoshan I will definitely rescue you Baoer will never abandon you Stop for me Brother Xiaoshan Hide now hurry up etc. So what do you do? Brother Xiaoshan Believe me I'll be fine This is me and my dad before we got separated. Wearing the same heart pendant One piece for you Give me one wait Escaped from the bandits You just bring the jade pendant to find me No baby Don't go ah What about the little boy? Where are the people? I I have no idea Please let me go. Help! Help! There are bandits The bandits are coming Shut her up Help! Help I thought As long as you control the army Going to a high position I can find you But fifteen years have passed BoA Where are you? Young Marshal The wedding procession has arrived Walk Go to the wedding hall Young Marshal I know You don't want to marry The Dumb Daughter of the Wen Family But this marriage It was decided by the Marshal. Do you want to change into wedding clothes? Go get married again I can go This has already given the Wen family enough face. I want to really get married Absolutely impossible yes Young Marshal BoA My bride can only be you You wait for me I will find you Brother Xiaoshan Why can't I find you? Are you really like what your father said? No longer there oops Stop crying The young and promising young commander Know sign language You marry in? Just to enjoy quick Cover your head with a veil Marshal's Mansion arrive The groom picks up the bride Let her come in by herself Happy Mother I'll do it. ah ah Bride's wedding dress On Fire a shame Send her to the west wing. cousin Yingge doesn't know sign language I learned from you still I'll take my sister-in-law back to her room. We haven't worshipped heaven and earth yet. Will send her to the east wing That Room But Lu Shuai's taboo Miss Good means Only I am worthy of being the young marshal's wife If my cousin knew Wen Shiyi Enter this room without permission She will definitely be kicked out of the Marshal's Mansion elder brother I can't walk anymore Come You get on my back I carry you Brother Xiaoshan If I married you You won't let me Suffering such grievance The military side Is there any news about Baoer? Back to the young commander Still searching waste Given so much time So much manpower was used Why haven't you found it yet? That's not what I gave Is this the room that BoA prepared? How come someone Oops, cousin. My sister-in-law doesn't listen to my advice. Ran into the east wing secretly What Wen Shiyi Who let you live in this room? ah How dare you ignore my rules? I tell you No one is qualified Live in this room Including you The so-called Mrs. Lu Let me go open I warn you Don't let me see you again Near this room Get out of here! lady This way please I didn't mean to come in. Yes oops Sister Wen Don't mess with me again Brother Lu is angry Yes ma'am Come with us out of this room first. You obviously brought me here. Why are you lying? What did you say? Sister Wen I clearly told you You can't enter this room. How dare you slander Miss Biao? Enough Shut up You believe me She brought me here. Look at her It doesn't seem like a lie Lu Miaoqing Wen Shiyi's Room Obviously on the west side Why would she Appear in the East Wing Marshal, please forgive me I took the wrong path. Shut up I want to hear you say Miao Qing is wrong Cousin, please forgive me. Lu Miaoqing Because you are my cousin That's why I let you Temporarily staying at Shaoshuai Mansion If there is a next time You know the consequences Get out of here! Thank you, Brother Xiaoshan Baoer likes it very much What is this When I grow up I'll definitely give you one Bigger and more exquisite hairpins More beautiful than this Brother Xiaoshan The hairpin is given to the first wife. You can't just give it away. You are my baby Hairpin I only send it to you Thank you, Brother Xiaoshan Baoer wants a lifetime With you Never separate BoA I shouldn't have let that woman Enter your room It's all my fault. The hairpin I promised you I already built it But why You haven't shown up yet Dead dumb My cousin actually Didn't kick her out. you you Go and take the Take out that hairpin. Find someone to deliver it to Wen Shiyi Just say It was given to her by her cousin. Wedding Gifts yes Miss That hairpin My cousin has always treated me like a treasure If Wen Shiyi wore a hairpin Appearing in front of my cousin Dead dumb You just wait to be kicked out. Shaoshuai Mansion You said this was given to me by Lu Qingshan Yes, husband. Shaoshuai said This is for you. Wedding Gifts Put it on now He was so angry yesterday. Why are you giving me a gift today? I won't take it. I'll give it back to him. Hey Madam I know you're angry. But the young commander wanted to make peace Why are you pushing it out? Where do couples gather to hold grudges overnight? yes I'm married to Lu Qingshan I'm married to Lu Qingshan If I really have a knot I'm afraid the days will get harder. Brother Xiaoshan Does Baoer play the flute well? Good sounding Baoer plays the best The Voice BoA finally found you Wen Shiyi Why is it you? What's wrong with you This hairpin Who asked you to wear it? Ahhh You dare to touch this hairpin? You are sure Don't I dare to take your life? Isn't this what you gave me? For you You deserve it too I am your legally married wife Even if you don't like me You can't hurt me like this. Marry in a formal way Your father, Wen Wancai At the price of a shop Sold it to me, Lu Fu If you really count it You are just a concubine. How do you insult me? It will be all right But you can't slander my father. Then take a good look at this This is impossible. how so I don't believe it I don't believe it No Written clearly in black and white You can't help but believe it I tell you If you do it again I'll take your indenture. Sell you to Cloud City Come Teach her the rules Where can I go and where can I not go? What can be touched and what cannot be touched yes Young Marshal Go Faster I brought you my cousin. You framed me. It doesn't matter who framed it. The truth is not important. What matters is who my cousin trusts. What are you going to do? If it weren't for you The father who sold his daughter for fame Send you to the Marshal's Mansion My cousin married me. You dumb bastard How can I be worthy of my cousin? Since my cousin Let me set some rules for you. I will serve you well today. Miss Miss, are you okay? Dare to hit Miss Tired of you Dead dumb You dare to hit me My father never hit me since I was little. Hold her down for me ah Ahhh How about it Does it hurt? Weren't you very arrogant just now? This is in the Marshal's Mansion What happens if you mess with me It's so noisy Shut her mouth. How is it? Is it delicious? It's delicious. I'll give it to you. Try something new Clip it for me My cousin fainted. Since she fainted We threw her into the pond. Sober Are you too harsh on your wife? She is the one the Marshal asked you to marry. I can tolerate other things. But she touched BoA's things I will never forgive her. This knot It's exactly the same as what Baoer taught me. Not so This should be worn on the left. Look, isn't this good? Could it be Wen Shiyi? It's BoA go Call Wen Shiyi over to me yes etc. I went there myself My cousin, she won't drown, will she? What are you afraid of? I'll tell you then The Marshal's wife fell into the water Unfortunately died But she is the young marshal's wife after all. If something happens If you keep talking, go down and accompany her. yes Wen Shiyi Arrived in the underworld Don't blame me. Wen Shiyi Ah, my cousin, Wen Shiyi Wen Shiyi Wen Shiyi, wake up How do you take care of the lady? Marshal, please forgive me It's the lady herself who is not careful Falling into the water Shut up Who pushed you in? Lu Miaoqing My cousin Young Marshal Urgent Can't you see I'm busy? The military side There is news about Miss BoA Is the news accurate? precise That person has a jade pendant There can be many ropes But there is only one jade pendant Miss, are you okay? Dead dumb How dare you tell your cousin about me? Someone hold her down. ah In his eyes you are nothing Where are the people? Everyone has left Just leave this Jade Pendant This is Baoer's jade pendant. Did that person say anything? That man is the pawn shop owner. Said a girl came here a few days ago When jade pendant But where are the people now? have no idea It must be BoA Mobilize all resources immediately Must find her It's the young commander Since my cousin I don't care whether you live or die. Then you go to the underworld Sue me. Dealt with her Yes|cousin\ ah No no Who will save me? Miss Cousin's Order Even if you become a ghost, don't come to me Oh, little... Young Marshal Dare to murder the Marshal's wife So brave Young Marshal I was wrong. I was wrong. Please let me go, Marshal. Someone drag her out and feed her to the dogs yes Marshal, please spare my life. Miss cousin Miss cousin Please save me I warned you many times Are you really not afraid of death? cousin It was you who made Yingge Discipline Wen Shiyi I want to help you discipline her. You are just A dog attached to the Lu family What qualifications do you have to discipline her? Drag her out after Never step into the Lu family's door again Someone will bully you in the future. Do you remember to fight back? After all, I can't protect you every time. Thank you for saving me Wen Shiyi Let's get divorced. Why Why do you want to leave me? You are not wrong only I found my soulmate Mrs. Lu It can only be her But I will give you enough money You don't have to rely on the Wen family. This is a divorce book. You should move out tomorrow. Brother Xiaoshan I got divorced after only three days of marriage. But it's okay I am free I can go find you now Taoli Street is us The place where we first met I will go to Taoli Street tomorrow Will you wait for me there? Young Marshal The military side There is news about Miss BoA Where She didn't show up. She just made an appointment with you Meet her at Taoli Street tomorrow Taoli Street That's me and Baoer. First meeting place Unexpectedly She's still there Tomorrow we will go to Taoli Street Brother Xiaoshan is not here Such a huge world I'm the only one left This is me and my brother Xiaoshan. The place where we met At that time I just lost my father. Daddy, where are you? I can't find you, Baoer Little Bunny How dare you steal my buns? Don't run away it hurts You are injured It will leave scars when you grow up. It will leave scars when you grow up. Wen Shiyi What is she doing here? Young Marshal Do you want to go say hello to the lady? What's the greeting? I have divorced her. No need to call me madam anymore yes Let's go in Wen Shiyi You got me kicked out of the Lu family. It ruined my face. I will never let you go girl What are you doing here? Please give me some money. Child for you Thanks You are Sister Bai Mudan He's a mute. You know me I am Baoer I see It's you BoA BoA The person my cousin has been looking for Could it be Wen Shiyi? What are you doing here? I came here to find Brother Xiaoshan He also has a jade pendant in his hand Have you met him? I know where your brother Xiaoshan is but You have to go in and help me for two days. I can tell you He is there snort It turns out that Brother Xiaoshan is in your eyes Isn't it that important? Isn't it that important? He told me a few days ago He told me a few days ago I've been looking for you for a long time Oh, forget it. I do That's it. Come in and change your clothes. Come in and change your clothes. Entered my Paramount It's going to be hard to get out again. The jade pendant Wen Shiyi is really Baoer Mr. Zhao Mr. Zhao You see Where did this beauty come from? She's really good looking. Come come come Sit, sit, sit Let my brother see hey-hey Ouch What's your name? Let me give you a kiss, please Come give me a kiss Kiss What's that sound? Young Marshal A place like Paramount It's normal to be noisy ah You dare to hit me Catch her for me Wen Shiyi Brother Xiaoshan You are Baoer Stinky Dumb It's your honor to be favored by me You dare to hit me? Ah ah Young Marshal BoA Young Marshal Miss Boa is not feeling well Should we take her to the hospital? Bring me the wine. I'm gonna kill you today. Help! Lu Qingshan Save me He hates me so much Not even willing to save me You don't know the young master. Give me a drink BoA Do you remember Why should I send you peach blossoms? I can't remember Peach Blossom is me and Baoer The most important agreement How could you not remember? You are not Baby I am I have a jade pendant Different color The jade pendant is fake You don't have any scars on your legs. You are not Baby Get out of here What a waste Turn around immediately Back to Paramount ah Don't come over here Don't come over here. Stinky Dumb Do you think I care about your life? Cut Cut it quickly! Cut it quickly! Cut Let's see if one dies. Cowardly Cut it quickly! Kill one of them for me to see. If you don't cut today I will strip you naked in public On you Brother Xiaoshan Baoer can't find you anymore few Young Marshal You dare Touch my Lu Qingshan's wife This this She is obviously dumb How could it be the Marshal's wife? Dumb ah You are not qualified to talk about her. Is he bullying you? Is he bullying you? Didn't I say that? Who bullies you? You have to go back Young Marshal Spare my life, Marshal Spare my life There are three of them, right? Marshal, spare my life She brought you in. Young Marshal Marshal, please forgive me. You want Don't handle this cleanly Dead dumb You actually made my cousin so concerned. Why This is Wen Shiyi is really Baoer but Start now I am I am my cousin's baby. I wanted to find someone to pretend to be Bao Er Join forces to take away your surname Lu All the power in your hands I didn't expect a careless move Failure That's not necessarily true. Lu Miaoqing Why are you here? Adjutant Qi I want to make a deal with you You were kicked out of the Lu family. What deal do I make with you? The mute girl you found can't help you But I can As long as you help me Replace BoA's identity Let me get Lu Qingshan The wealth and glory you want I can satisfy BoA is dumb But you are not Who said dumb? It won't heal. Besides, Lu Qingshan doesn't know Has Baoer changed? But all Lu Qingshan's power So what? I just want him Happy cooperation I didn't expect you were a lunatic too. Why did Wen Shiyi go to Taoli Street? It will also appear in Me and BoA The place where we first met The place where we first met Why does she have a scar on her leg? Could it be Young Marshal Young Marshal Already checked Why did Madam go to Taoli Street? explain She seems to be Looking for a childhood playmate Childhood playmate I seem Found my baby Are you really my baby? Are you really my baby? But why do you Will become the daughter of the Wen family These years What on earth happened to you You woke up Wen Shiyi The scar on your leg How did you do it? To save a brother. I was hit by a car and injured. Then do you remember What's your brother's name? His name is Miss Shi Yi Not good Miss Shi Yi Not good housekeeper What happened My master is seriously ill Please go back and have a look. Time master You said it well Wait until the baby in my belly is born The Wen family's inheritance But it's all for him. rest assured The doctor said This is a boy My property If not him, who else should I give it to? Master is the best Let's go eat OK master The lady is back Shi Yi is back Shi Yi is back Come come come Come here soon Didn't have dinner? housekeeper Give the lady a set of bowls and chopsticks Dad, you are not sick. Why did you lie to me? It's the right time Daddy just misses you too much But the Lu family has strict rules You can't come out again I had no choice but to resort to this Don't blame your dad. Yes, it's time Your daddy I just miss you so much I won't blame him. Since you are in good health Then I'm going back Time I'm back It's not easy to come back Have dinner at home Yes, it's time Today, Dad I have good news for you. I have good news for you. Your aunt Already pregnant and It's still a boy Congratulations, Auntie Time Your aunt You are pregnant with your only brother. You are pregnant with your only brother. Look Can you follow Marshal Lu? Five textile factories To your brother Make a greeting gift But I have divorced him. What What did you say I divorced him. You unfilial daughter I tried my best to form an alliance with the Lu family You didn't even make it three days He was kicked out by the Lu family. I thought you were the wife of the Marshal's Mansion. What can I do for the Wen family? I didn't expect you to be so useless. He was the one who divorced me. Don't blame me You must have offended the Lu family. otherwise How can it be within three days? He was kicked out by the Lu family. master I heard She went to Paramount the day before yesterday With some dudes Mixing together privately What I guess the young commander I think you are not careful. So I quit your job You evil bastard You have brought shame to the Wen family. No They bullied me. I didn't hang out with them. Still dare to quibble If you don't go That kind of messy place How could they bully you? How could they bully you? Visitors Hold her down for me I will Kill you, you disgrace. stop Young Marshal How come you are here? Are you here to ask Wen Shiyi for punishment? Don't worry\ I will deal with this unfilial girl now. I will deal with this unfilial girl now. stop I am Lu Qingshan's wife You can move it too. Let her go Young Marshal What are you doing? My wife from the Lu family I was bullied here. Of course I'm here to support her. Young Marshal You misunderstood We just think this girl I made you angry Just thinking Teach her a lesson for you yes Since it was a misunderstanding Just explain it clearly Don't let it affect you. Our Wen and Lu families' business Our Wen and Lu families' business You bully my wife of the Lu family like this. Still want our Lu family Doing business with you Adjutant Qi Immediately terminate the cooperation between Wen and Lu In the future, the Wen family and the Lu family No more connection stop Lu Qingshan You're waiting for me here. If you dare to cancel Cooperation between Wen and Lu I'll kill this damn girl Going to Paramount Inform the newspaper I don't know where your Lu family can put their face. I don't know where your Lu family can put their face. You dare Wen Shiyi is your daughter You do it for money She doesn't even want her reputation anymore. But if If you can get the Lu family's Five textile factories for me This matter We can write it off. You dare to threaten me If you don't agree Then we all tear each other apart No one should think well. Especially this damn girl good I agree This is the title deed to the textile factory. It's yours I do not agree Wen Shiyi What are you doing Father You tricked me back just to Five textile mills? Hey you dead girl Hey you dead girl If you're smart Just give me the title deed. At the beginning, the marriage with the Lu family You said it was for my own good But in fact I just Is this the tool you use to form a marriage alliance? Now that you know Then don't ask me anymore. Why do you treat me like this? I am your only daughter. You told me before I got married Say I'm your pride Is this all fake? Hahahaha You are such a fool. He said you believed it. Your father has long despised you for being mute. Your father has long despised you for being mute. If you weren't worth marrying If you weren't worth marrying I'd have thrown you out long ago. Let you fend for yourself If Lu Qingshan doesn't want you today Your daddy I'll still find a home for you. Sold you out Father Is what she said true? You love me the most Am I not your only treasure? It's the right time Of course you are my only one My only shame Why are you dumb? If you weren't dumb I can marry into a higher family. But it's because you're dumb It's a shame I have to endure the surrounding All the noble families laughed at me Why is this? But we are father and daughter. Now Not anymore Your aunt is pregnant with a boy. Male Do you know what it means? Our Wen Family There is a successor And you A useless daughter No longer of use value so Are you going to abandon me? No, no, no How could I abandon you? Lu Qingshan, don't you like her very much? I can sell her to you again. I can sell her to you again. As long as you can Five textile factories for me she It's yours Don't give him I'm not worthy Of course you deserve it You are my wife, Lu Qingshan Deserve the best of all worlds I promise From now on No one dares to bully you The entire Lu family The entire Cloud City All your support This is the title deed. From now on Wen Shiyi With your Wen family No more connection A dumb man for five textile factories One dumb man for five textile factories Worth it Hahaha Visitors Take them down Lu Qingshan What are you doing? Of course it's a reckoning. You just threatened me You think I'll just leave it at that. Lu Qingshan I am your father-in-law. You can't do this to me You treat me like this Aren't you afraid of God's punishment? Yeah Just now I have severed ties with your family. Where did my father-in-law come from? Time You can't let Lu Qingshan do this to me Please save Daddy I am your father. Yes, yes, it's time Oh no no no girl My dear daughter Please save us. I'm pregnant with your own brother. Did you see My daughter will save me. Hahaha You forgot Now You are not my father I'm not your daughter You're on your own. Adjutant Qi Bring your wife Go back to the hospital to rest Wen Shiyi You can't ignore me You dumb bastard I should have let you die outside. Wen Shiyi Brother Xiaoshan today I have severed ties with my father. Jade Pendant Where's my jade pendant? BoA I finally found you BoA Lu Miaoqing cousin Cousin, I was wrong. I shouldn't hurt Wen Shiyi I really know I'm wrong Don't hit me, cousin. How could you be Baoer? I just want my jade pendant back. I'm leaving now Let's go This jade pendant This is me and my dad before we got separated. Wearing the same heart pendant One piece for you Give me one After escaping from the bandits You just bring the jade pendant to find me This is my jade pendant. It was Wen Shiyi who stole my jade pendant That's why I treated her like that That's why I treated her like that No jade pendant Brother Xiaoshan can't find me I must not lose It's all Brother Xiaoshan's fault It's my brother's fault that he couldn't find you Sorry for you It's a piece The jade pendant is a piece You are really my brother Xiaoshan BoA I finally found you BoA Baoer finally found Brother Xiaoshan Pretending to be weak and crazy It really made Lu Qingshan lose his vigilance The fastest way How could they Hug together The doctor said you need to rest more. I'll take you back to the ward first. I'm going to live here But this is Wen Shiyi's ward You let her go I'm gonna live here. I like it here This is the jade pendant that Brother Xiaoshan gave me. I must not lose it How is she now? How is she now? The patient may be injured I fell on my head and got a hypochondriac syndrome Don't stimulate her during this period. If she recovers during this period, Her illness is cured. well We'll live wherever you want. Wen Shiyi I'll arrange someone for you. Arrange a new ward You move out of here now Why I won't move This ward is obviously mine. You owe her this. If it weren't for you Will she be like this now? Because of me Have you forgotten At that time in the Marshal's Mansion What did she do to me? ah How about it Does it hurt? Weren't you very arrogant just now? This is what happens when you mess with me in the Marshal's Mansion Don't hit me Don't hit me I know I'm wrong I didn't mean it. Don't hit me Don't stimulate her. It's okay. Don't worry. don't want don't want fine I am here So can I live here? Then I'm going to move in now. I promise you everything you want to do. You go to the door first Wait for me don't want Miao Qing is afraid So when you come in again You can be happy Live in this ward Go ahead idiot I said I won't move She's the one who's been bullying me. You deserve it. You say I Deserve the punishment alright There's no need to mention the past. I just want you Just give up the ward Wait until you are healed Just move out you tell me What is your relationship with her now? You were clearly at the Wen family just now Then protect me Have you forgotten everything? This has nothing to do with Miaoqing Miaoqing can't be stimulated now You pack your things now Go quickly I see You don't have to say it. Don't give him I'm not worthy Of course you deserve it You are my wife, Lu Qingshan Deserve the best of all worlds I promise From now on No one dares to bully you The entire Lu family The entire Cloud City All your support This is the title deed. From now on Wen Shiyi With your Wen family No more connection One dumb man for five textile factories One dumb man for five textile factories Worth it Lu Qingshan Everything you told me was a lie. Yeah Just like Daddy said I'm just dumb I'm not worthy Remember this, dumb bastard From now on Lu Qingshan is mine You are no longer Mrs. Lu Dare to approach him again I'll let you die here. You dare to hit me, dumb bastard? You dare to touch me again? I will definitely pay it back Miaoqing Are you okay? I'm fine It's her It's all her cousin She was angry that I stayed in her ward Push me down intentionally You're the one threatening me. If you dare to do it again Don't blame me for being rude. You said it. Who bullied me? Let me return it Lu Qingshan You liar cousin I'm so cold, let's go back to the ward good Brother Xiaoshan is the best It seems that he has fallen in love with Wen Shiyi I will never allow this to happen. Lu Qingshan can only have me in his heart Wen Shiyi After tonight Lu Qingshan is mine Miaoqing's current situation I really can't leave If there is a problem with the military You report to me at any time Don't hit me Don't hit me Don't come over Don't hit me Don't hit me Don't come over Don't come over Miaoqing Miaoqing, what's wrong with you? I'm so scared There are many people in my dream They kept chasing me and beating me I'm so scared Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. Now stop dreaming. I'm here They appear as soon as I fall asleep I'm really scared You can sleep with me Okay? I... I'm really scared I'm afraid they'll show up again. Miaoqing Your hand is injured I'm going to see the doctor Brother Xiaoshan You accompany me Don't go Okay? good It's so hot Brother Xiaoshan, I will help you Brother Xiaoshan What are you doing Brother Xiaoshan BoA is cold Hug your baby Okay? You let go Brother Xiaoshan, please don't leave. You accompany me Miaoqing, I'm going out Sober Brother Xiaoshan Didn't Adjutant Qi say The one who said the love fragrance Absolutely unbearable? Damn A rare opportunity Can't let Lu Qingshan get away Brother Xiaoshan BoA What are you doing? What happened to him? ah Let me go We have separated Wake up I am Wen Shiyi Not Lu Miaoqing Ms. Miao Qing It's late at night Lu Shuai ordered that for your safety Don't move around randomly I'm just taking a walk good I'll be back soon Don't touch me, let me go open Wen Shiyi You actually got it You wait I will never let you down I yesterday Really and Wen Shiyi Wen Shiyi Wake up doctor Yayoi How is the situation? Back to the young commander Well Madam's. The high fever has subsided. No life-threatening situation at this time but Needs careful care Needs careful care To fully recover knew Well Young Marshal Madam's body Not so good That room shouldn't be too... Get out Miaoqing Brother Xiaoshan Why did you last night Will be with Wen Shiyi Things are not what you think Things are not what you think How is that you tell me Why are you together? Listen to my explanation I don't listen I don't want to see her You let her go She is unconscious now. No way to go Xiaoshan|Brother Is Miaoqing not good? Is Miaoqing not good? What did Miaoqing do wrong? You don't like Miaoqing anymore How come? My favorite is Miaoqing. Miaoqing I promise you When she wakes up I asked her to move out immediately. I don't believe it You are lying You don't let her go I don't trust you anymore Miaoqing Lu Qingqi actually protected Wen Shiyi It seems that forcibly driving Wen Shiyi away now It's impossible. Only Another way What did you call me here for? Isn't it agreed? Try not to meet in private? I need you to get me some medicine. This drug is too toxic What are you going to do with it? Poisoned Lu This medicine is prepared for Wen Shiyi Since Lu Qingshan doesn't drive Wen Shiyi away Don't blame me for being cruel. How do I Body aches Lu Qingshan I was Lu Qingshan Don't come over here Wen Shiyi What are you doing Stop it. Take medicine You are not feeling well now Drink the medicine first. You don't want to drink, right? Then you bear it yourself Miaoqing cousin You are so affectionate now Coaxing Wen Shiyi to take medicine It seems you are real I don't like Miaoqing anymore Miaoqing It's not what you think drink Jade Pendant You are Brother Xiaoshan Who let you touch this? Who let you touch this? Don't you remember me? I am doctor doctor Increase the dosage Marshal, can I take a look at that bowl of medicine? Young Marshal The medicine that Madam drank is poisonous. The situation is very critical now I'm afraid my life will be in danger. How is it possible? I brought this bowl of medicine myself. How could it be poisonous? Adjutant Qi Young Marshal Seal the hospital immediately Without my permission No one can leave yes I don't care what means you use She must be saved Young Marshal Madam has Out of danger Take a few days to rest You will fully recover. Madam wakes up How does it feel? Madam, everything is fine. Dead dumb Life is tough This won't kill you. What else An uncomfortable place? Brother Xiaoshan He really is Brother Xiaoshan? I don't Uncomfortable place Uncomfortable place That's good I want to ask you something. What's wrong You really cousin Why don't you care about Miaoqing? Did Miaoqing do something wrong? Miaoqing will never I won't lose my temper with you anymore Can you accompany me? Miaoqing is obedient I am dealing with Very important thing You go back first etc. The bowl was poisoned just now. Not yet resolved Why are you in such a hurry to leave? Young Marshal What do you mean? The bowl of medicine just now Except me Only you guys Doctors and nurses have contacted It's not you who poisoned Could it be me? Young Marshal It wasn't us who poisoned yes We have no reason Poisoning the lady No reason I am Lu Qingshan In recent years, The position of the young commander I don't know how many people there are Overtly and covertly Want to murder My life and the lives of my family I can't guarantee that you are among them Mix in some unclean people Young Marshal We the people Try your best to get your wife Rescued You are indiscriminate You are indiscriminate Say we poisoned you You're taking it too far. Why do you say yes? The poison we put The poison we put Where is the evidence? Adjutant Qi exist Take them down Careful questioning Visitors Pull it down I know who poisoned me It's her I saw her go to the pharmacy. Miaoqing It's you Not me Not my cousin You have to believe me Young Marshal I saw her go to the pharmacy. I saw her go to the pharmacy. Not me Not me cousin Don't you believe in Miao Qing? Don't be afraid What evidence do you have? If you dare to lie to me You know the consequences I No evidence Just talking nonsense here Visitors Take it down No evidence No evidence Don't detain people at will What are you talking about I'm looking for your murderer. Young Marshal I have a way to prove it The entire hospital only There was ashes on the floor of the pharmacy I want to know this lady Have you ever been to a pharmacy? Just look at her Is there any ash on the soles of your feet? That's it I don't want cousin They are bad people They're trying to frame me. You have to believe me cousin Miaoqing, don't be afraid I am here No one dares to hurt you Show them the soles of your shoes. cousin What do you mean? You doubt me I'm helping you clear suspicion. Let them see the soles of their shoes I don't Why do you doubt me? Miaoqing You don't believe me, do you? You just don't believe me Believe it or not You'll know after you look at the soles of the shoes Walk Away Cousin, I'm afraid Ash Ash on the soles Useless things Why you Never let me go So you advised me to take medicine yesterday Just to poison me. no Not me It's her They want to frame me. Cousin, you have to believe me Since you didn't go to the pharmacy Why? There will be ash on the soles of feet I really don't know Don't be so fierce I really don't know She's already like this. How could I frame you? The evidence is all in her feet Are you still going to protect her? She is my person What happened to me protecting her? this. This person really is My little brother? Why did he become like this? Adjutant Qi Bring Miaoqing back Let her take a rest I won't leave I want to stay with my cousin. Cousin, please don't chase me away OK Miaoqing is obedient Wait till I finish my business here. Find you again I won't leave What kind of fragrance is this? When is your hospital? This incense burner is placed Wen Shiyi You bitch I'm in the incense burner I took such a strong drug. My cousin actually went to look for you Get angry now What else is it for? The surname Lu originally Suspicious by nature Don't let him know. It's us who put the incense In the incense burner The matter of love fragrance It has to be directed to Wen Shiyi. This incense burner does not belong to our hospital. We did not give the patient What incense burner? Why this incense burner? Will be in Wen Shiyi's room Young Marshal This incense burner of unknown origin It's better to let the doctor It's better to check It's better to check Any questions? This incense burner is filled with fragrant aroma Mysterious incense cousin yes Was it Wen Shiyi who poisoned you? Not me I don't know this incense burner. Why is it here? Cousin, look at her Caught red-handed but still refuses to admit it Wen Shiyi I always thought You are a self-respecting person Missy I didn't expect you would use this. Despicable means You thought you did this Will I not leave you? You forced me that night Is it really not her? If it wasn't you who did it That incense burner Why are you in your room? I have no idea But it's really not me Visitors Young Marshal I ask you These days Who are they? Entering an overheated room Back to the young commander In the past few days, except Besides doctors and nurses Just you and your wife Been to this ward and... And what explain and On your night Just before coming to the ward I saw the lady's hand Take the incense burner No You are talking nonsense He is framing me. Enough Frame you He is my soldier. No grudges against you Why do you want to frame you? I don't Wen Shiyi You really disgust me I didn't expect you to be such a calculating person. If I really have a plan If I really have a plan I won't let anyone hurt me. I won't let anyone hurt me. she she She framed me. She just poisoned me. so The incense burner incident was also an injustice to me. Don't hit me Don't hit Miaoqing, don't shoot Incense burner thing The soldiers have proven that it was you who did it. Miao Qing and the Soldiers No contact How did she collude with the soldiers to frame you? Wen Shiyi I know you don't like me Want to steal my cousin But I beg you Can you please not hurt me? Wen Shiyi I will find out who poisoned you. But if you dare to do something that hurts Miaoqing I will never forgive you Adjutant Qi All people who have entered and exited the pharmacy Arrest them all and interrogate them one by one We must find out who poisoned us. All people who have entered and exited the pharmacy Arrest them all and interrogate them one by one We must find out who poisoned us. Wait, Marshal There's something wrong with this scent. Of course I know there's a problem. You don't need to tell me What I mean is The material of this fragrance and the medicine that the lady drinks Counteraction So the lady was poisoned Someone drugged her. But she first inhaled the smoke from the incense burner Then I drank the medicine That's why she was poisoned. Wen Shiyi You've done it to yourself You deserve it I don't Wen Shiyi How could you treat your cousin like this? cousin What are you going to do with her? Adjutant Qi Murder of the Marshal What is the crime? Back to the young commander Sent to the Military Prison Severe punishment You two Take her down Ahhhh Ah...no Not me etc. She can actually speak ah Ahhh I I... Can... Say Si say something doctor What's going on How can she speak? Maybe it was when he was poisoned before. Took a lot of medicine Accidentally cured my throat In a hurry Stimulated her to speak Well... There have been precedents for this before. Ah I I. without! No Drugged Not me Look at her like this Did I really wrong her? you No.... Trust me Now we have the witnesses and evidence What can I trust you with? What can I trust you with? You used to... very... Mutually... Mutually... Believe me before I have only known you for half a month. Where did it come from before You forgot I I Miaoqing Miaoqing He only has Lu Miaoqing in his eyes now Don't remember me I don't remember Bao'er. Miaoqing Miaoqing, you woke up How are you Cousin, I'm fine. Now finally You can accompany me well. Wen Shiyi, that bitch Can actually speak If she tells her cousin She is the baby My cousin will definitely kill me precious.... Baby, what's wrong with you? Don't call me baby Why is Miao Qing so interested in Bao Er's name? The reaction was so intense You are not as you used to be Do you like me calling you baby? I don't mean that. The name Baoer It reminds me The days I lost you Every time I think of this I will be very scared So I don't want to hear it anymore The name Baoer well Since you don't like to hear Then I won't call you anymore. cousin Wen Shiyi hurt you like this What are you going to do with her? I'll take care of her. The doctor said you are cured. I will be discharged tomorrow. It's not good to keep forcing him now. Dealing with Wen Shiyi It would be bad if it backfired. Anyway Wen Shiyi was charged with drugging Wen Shiyi was charged with drugging Lu Qingshan will definitely not let her go Lu Qingshan will definitely not let her go good I listen to my cousin. Return home tomorrow Now Wen Shiyi, that bitch Now Wen Shiyi, that bitch Left the Lu Mansion She didn't have a chance to see her cousin. I'm no longer afraid of exposing my identity. My cousin looks very happy Is there something happy? The stumbling block is gone. Of course I am happy besides Soon Soon You're going to call me Madam. Good lady You are quite clever, little girl. Return to room lady That is Wen Shiyi Why is Wen Shiyi in Lu Mansion? My cousin actually took him back home. Miaoqing Why are you here? What happened to her cousin? Why is she here? She is not in good health Abandoned by family Such a chaotic world It's hard for her to live alone Then you take her into the house. What am I? Brother Xiaoshan Do you want me to serve your wife? Miaoqing Don't let your imagination run wild In my heart You are my wife So why is she here? So why is she here? She has no relatives Going out is also a death And I promised her To take care of her future life To take care of her future life Take care of her future life cousin You want her to continue to be your wife Be the mistress of Lu Mansion? Don't you want a baby? BoA I have divorced her You are the only mistress of the Lu Mansion. Down My cousin cheated on me You've been lying to me Baoer has been looking for you for so long I just want to stay with you forever Brother Xiaoshan You have changed You don't have a baby in your heart anymore BoA The long-awaited brother Xiaoshan Become unrecognizable And it ruined my innocence My father also disowned me. Such a huge world There is no relative What's the meaning of my life? What does she want? Your throat now Not fully recovered yet You should be given some medicine. but You are pregnant What You are pregnant So the medicine for the throat I can't eat it anymore child At least I have a child. Can depend on each other for you Mother also needs to become strong To live well Why am I nervous about her? Wen Shiyi I'm going to kill you oops What's the use of losing your temper? You go out Wen Shiyi, that woman It's really haunting What to do now You also asked me With the blessing of Baoer's identity I can't even beat Wen Shiyi If you come here to quarrel Get out now you Since Wen Shiyi is eager to die Then I have another plan. Can make Wen Shiyi completely finished What strategy? how I don't dare What's there to be afraid of? Don't go into the tiger's den How can we get a tiger? I advise you this time Don't make any more mistakes My patience is limited. If my partner If you keep holding me back Don't blame me for being cruel. You'd better be polite to me. We are partners It pissed me off Everyone together* madman strangeness Where's my jade pendant? Why can't I find it? Wen Shiyi What are you looking for? What are you doing here? Are you going to drive me away? Now you can speak fluently. Little dumb You are not welcome here Please go out What are you doing Let me go You are the one who should leave You are so shamelessYYYY I've divorced my cousin. He still stayed in Lu's house. You think I like being here? Yeah I can't wait to leave Lu Mansion now Far away from you all Then why are you still with your cousin? Let's go back to Lu Mansion together Really good at pretending Believe it or not What are you doing What are you pretending for? Do you really want to leave? Or is it better to play hard to get and seduce my cousin? You think everyone is like you You only have eyes for men, right? You are amazing You are noble There's no man in your eyes Then why do you I also need to find a like-minded partner for Brother Xiaoshan Return my jade pendant What are you grabbing? Don't you have no eyes for men? This is my jade pendant. Give it back to me Your g|&gt; But he IY gW It's mine now Give me Warm and timely My cousin loves me now 3 What are your qualifications? Take back this jade pendant pp, This has nothing to do with you Give it back to me My cousin doesn't even remember you anymore. You take back the jade pendant What's the point? you're right This doesn't make sense anymore. You take it away The fish hasn't taken the bait yet. Why did you give up? no I have to stimulate her What do you want to do? You know cousin Why do you love me? I don't want to know Because he's been looking for someone. A childhood playmate The wedding room you accidentally walked into on your wedding day Design with me The peach blossom hairpin you brought They are all Lu Qingshan Prepared for that playmate Do you know who that playmate is? It's you, baby. Hahaha Lu Qingshan is really stupid He loves whoever has the jade pendant Wen Shiyi The friendship between the two of you That's all. Give me back the jade pendant. You want Then you come and get it. Wen Shiyi, don't come over here Return my jade pendant Miaoqing Lu Miaoqing You led me here. That's the idea. That's the idea. Adjutant Qi Call a doctor yes cousin My head hurts. Wen Shiyi If Miaoqing has any problem I will never forgive you Not me I didn't push her It has nothing to do with me Shut up You're still arguing It's not me who pushed it. roll roll Lu Miaoqing She's not the baby you're looking for. What did you say I tell you Lu Miaoqing is not Baoer at all Wen Shiyi You keep talking nonsense Don't blame me for being rude to you. Don't blame me for being rude to you. cousin My head hurts. Will I die? Don't be afraid The doctor will be here soon. Get out of this room right now I don't want to say it a second time no For the children I have to let Lu Qingshan know I am the real baby Wen Shiyi, what are you doing? Don't come over here He is acting crazy I didn't push her at all. She's not the baby you're looking for. Shut up You wicked woman Poisonous Woman You said I was a vicious woman You go away I don't want to see you Get lost Stop acting crazy. There's no use for you. cousin You let her out Let her out Miaoqing good Wen Shiyi You apologize to Miaoqing now I don't apologize I didn't push her at all. She fell down by herself. Still dare to quibble I clearly saw the stairs I clearly saw the stairs You pushed her down yourself. I didn't push her I chase after him Just to get my jade pendant back This is your jade pendant. right This is my jade pendant. This jade pendant I have carried it with me since I was a kid. Never took it down. But a few days ago When I returned to Wen Mansion I suddenly discovered My jade pendant is missing. But that day... In the ward I saw Miaoqing holding This is the jade pendant. v Brother Shan You doubt me This is my jade pendant. It's our token of recognition. Why? I've never seen you wear it. Because I have been Hide it in your clothes This is our token In case you get it out and lose it How can I recognize you? How can I recognize you? Brother Xiaoshan Brother Xiaoshan This woman is a liar This woman is a liar She wants to steal you away She said the jade pendant was hers She has no evidence. Lu Miaoqing You can take the jade pendant You can take the jade pendant But my past with Brother Xiaoshan You can't take it away no matter how hard you try. Since I met Miaoqing She didn't really mention it. She didn't really mention it. Our History About BoA and XiaoShan's past Only the two of us know Is it right Brother Xiaoshan You have to believe me She is a liar Get her out of here. Get her out of here. Enough Who of you is lying? Just verify it and you will know You two have different opinions. There must be someone pretending to be someone else. Who of you dare to lie to me? This is the end cousin You say it first You asked me before What's the scar on my leg? This is to save you. do you remember This scar I will never forget At that time I just lost my father. A person stood in front of Paramount and cried And you And I Because I was so hungry Stolen buns The boss of the bun shop Chase to the Paramount At that time a car Opened towards you You stood there in fear. I didn't even think about it I pushed you away you You are really me The treasure I've been looking for Brother Xiaoshan Lu Miaoqing You are so brave. You dare to lie to me I didn't lie to you Brother Xiaoshan Did you forget The first hairpin I ever owned It's the peach blossom hairpin you cut for me. How do you know about the peach blossom hairpin? That day You are in the peach blossom forest where we often go I picked a peach blossom by myself But You accidentally fell from a tree. I'll help you go home As a result, on the way back Encountered bandits That's right It is like this You were captured by bandits. You were captured by bandits. Almost beat him half to death Because they said You are Marshal Lu Long Lost Son As long as I catch you It can threaten Marshal Lu Let them go They locked you in a woodshed. It's me I grabbed it at that time Saved you That's right It was indeed Baoer. Escaped from the village with me Then the bandits Leading two big wolfhounds Chasing us desperately from behind Chasing us desperately from behind Your leg is injured Your leg is injured I hid you. Someone led them away What about the little boy? Where are the people? I have no idea Please let me go. Help! Help! There are bandits The bandits are coming Shut her up Help! Help... And my throat I was injured because I was trying to save you. You lie My throat was injured. My throat was injured. But it didn't become dumb It was cured later No Brother Xiaoshan do you remember The medicine in that bowl is very strong. The medicine in that bowl is very strong. I was already mute. I was already mute. You remember that, right? Brother Xiaoshan You have to believe me You lied to me BoA's Voice I was indeed dumb at that time. I don't Young Marshal go out Well.... Urgent Miss BoA's Story Lu Miaoqing Why do you know My past with Brother Xiaoshan you guess Wen Shiyi In this world There is no such thing as an impenetrable wall You want to fight me? Are you worthy? Give me back my jade pendant. Is this all you know? Wen Shiyi, you are too weak Not worthy of Lu Qingshan at all Too lazy to tell you I'm going to find Brother Xiaoshan Do you think Will Lu Qingshan still believe you? What do you mean idiot I tell you When he comes back It's your death date Little Mountain Brother Don't call me that. This is Adjutant Qi. Materials found in your room It contains all my childhood information. How do you explain this? What information Still playing dumb What information See for yourself These They all belong to me and Brother Xiaoshan. Childhood Wen Shiyi Until now What are you still acting in? What is Brother Xiaoshan? What childhood experience? When the time comes You still don't repent I have no idea What do you mean? You and your father I've been investigating my background From the beginning You just want to pretend to be Baoer You just want to pretend to be Baoer Gain my trust Yes or no No I am Baoer It's her It's her She's been pretending to be me. No Brother Xiaoshan, I am Baoer Brother Xiaoshan, I am Baoer Miaoqing, don't be afraid I trust you What's hateful is I almost By this scheming woman The woman was deceived Deeply scheming If I'm pretending How would I know? Only Baoer and Brother Xiaoshan Only then did I know the past You can find my childhood information. These past What's the hard part? It's you Why do you Harming me again and again Don't hit Brother Xiaoshan BoA is scared Wen Shiyi In front of me How dare you lay hands on her? I didn't mean to do anything to her. She's been hurting me. Enough Adjutant Qi exist Investigate you. Tell her everything Miss Wen Just confess and be lenient. We have already checked You are the enemy spy. What Enemy spy It seems that the enemy's spies The training was good. When the time comes You still don't repent I didn't make excuses At the beginning...it was a marriage between the Wen and Lu families. Sold me to the Lu Mansion You know all this. I was careless at first. I originally thought This is just a An ordinary marriage Unexpectedly Enemy Forces It has already penetrated. Enemy spy Now I'm an enemy spy again. Now I'm an enemy spy again. If you are not an enemy spy If you are not an enemy spy Why? Since you entered the Lu family My military whereabouts have been leaked repeatedly Several battles I almost died on the battlefield How do you explain this? What's this You know Lu Qingshan's whereabouts Informed his enemies Yeah, what's wrong? Wen Shiyi has not been driven away yet You started to attack Lu Qingshan It's your business to drive Wen Shiyi away My goal has always been to get rid of Lu Qingshan I advise you to abide by the agreement. I'll help you get the rights Help me get rid of Wen Shiyi Otherwise, don't blame me for being ruthless. But now the confidential information is leaked Lu Qingshan already suspected me If I don't kill him, he will kill me. What are you afraid of? us Isn't there another Wen Shiyi who can take the blame? You said I was an enemy spy But I don't even have your military secrets I don't know where to put it. A cunning person like you How could I not know where it is? Miss Wen The Marshal's Military Secrets It is usually placed in his study. You are the young marshal's wife. In and out of his study No one should dare to stop it. No one should dare to stop it. Madam Marshal Ever since I married into the Lu family No one Treated me as the Marshal's wife The first person to embarrass me Still my husband The title of Madam Marshal All it brought me was hurt and insults Now we need someone to take the blame. This title became me It's a great honor. Enough Wen Shiyi You now It just makes me sick. Miss Wen Stop struggling. Since we can say that you are a spy It means we There is enough evidence to prove There is enough evidence to prove What evidence No matter what I say now You won't believe me Wen Shiyi You first pretended to be Baoer Stealing my military secrets I'm going to put you in jail. I'm going to put you in jail. You are there Stay forever You are not Brother Xiaoshan My little mountain brother No matter what happens They will stand by me And you Too strange Enough Wen Shiyi Until now You are still shameless Fake BoA roll Lu Miaoqing You keep saying you are Bao Er You keep saying you are Bao Er Then I ask you Song by BoA and Xiao Shan Can you blow? What's the meaning Did you forget Song by BoA and Xiao Shan Just the two of us. Will she? Did she blow you? Did she blow you? cousin My head feels dizzy Please take me to the hospital. Please take me to the hospital. etc. Miaoqing Do you remember our song? Young Marshal Don't be fooled by this woman again. She is now To alienate you from Miss Miaoqing alienation It's just a song If she really can blow Then what can I use to alienate you? unless unless You can't blow at all. You can use money Get the past of BoA and XiaoShan You can steal the jade pendant and disguise yourself as her. But no one in the song Can be recorded No one can teach you If you really are Baoer Then you will blow Then you will blow Adjutant Qi Go get a leaf Young Marshal Go cousin What are you doing? Miaoqing, I ask you Do you remember A song for both of us? Of course I remember Get it hurry up cousin I... I feel really dizzy. cousin Holding elder brother Holding Enough What are you blowing? Just a broken song You just trust her. She's alienating us. Broken Song Lu Miaoqing You are not Baby You dare to lie to me Young Marshal Calm down. She is dying now. Lili separates you and Miss Miaoqing Yes, cousin. She may not be able to play the music. She will. Brother Xiaoshan Does it sound good? Brother Xiaoshan Does Baoer play the flute well? It sounds good. BoA plays the best. Baoer plays the best Good sounding Baoer plays the best Fifteen years I've always wanted to blow you again But I can't find you sorry It's all my fault These years You've been wronged run Lu Miaoqing Where do you want to run to? I was wrong Let me go You're such a vicious woman. In front of me Murder of Wen Shiyi Do you think I will forgive you? Cousin, I really know I was wrong I beg you to let me go I beg you to let me go Let you go Will I let you go? You know best cousin You see, my father For saving your life I beg you to forgive me. To repay your father The life-saving grace of that year These years My Lu family has done everything for you. I didn't expect you to dare to do that in front of me. Murder of BoA I won't mind killing you. Kill me\w Ha ha Lu Qingshan Lu Qingshan You want to kill me, Lu Qingshan Do you really love Baoer? You have been looking for her for so many years. Is it for her? Or is it for a thought in your heart? Shut up If you really love her Why is she standing in front of you? You can't recognize it If I were the one playing the tune today You're holding the gun now. That's her. Shut up There was a misunderstanding between me and Wen Shiyi It's all because of you, this vicious woman Instigate I instigated If you really have a clear mind Are you afraid of my instigation? Lu Qingshan You are A heartless person We are all the same You are not more noble than me. Adjutant Qi Drag her out Beaten to death stop I am here I wonder who dares to touch Miaoqing To ensure that the plan goes smoothly We have to ask Marshal Lu for help. The charge of a spy Already able to defeat Wen Shiyi Do we still need to ask Uncle Lu? need Wen Shiyi is already pregnant What sit down My source at the hospital told me If she Use this killer trick There is no guarantee that Lu Qingshan will not waver. But Wen Shiyi She is pregnant with Lu Qingshan's child Uncle Lu will definitely favor her. That's the bloodline of the Lu family. If I tell them then Wen Shiyi has been to Paramount The baby in her belly Whose It's hard to say. Father How come you are here What are you going to do? In front of me Kill my brother's daughter Father It's this woman Framed Time She deserved to die Wen Shiyi I'm coming today Just for her For the sake of time I ask you Are you pregnant? Time You are pregnant I am pregnant with Qingshan's child real You are pregnant, it's true But the baby in my belly Not necessarily Qingshan Father What do you mean? You stupid idiot Being played around by this woman She used to stay at the Paramount The baby in her belly Whose is it? That's hard to say. No This is Qingshan's child. Time I trust you Father Time at Paramount I am also Bastard I think you were caught by this woman Blinded by the heart Today anyway The baby in her belly Can't stay Father Lu Miaoqing You must have told the secret. stop Put the gun down cousin I told my uncle But I'm doing this for your own good. Wen Shiyi, this woman is not decent The baby in her belly It will mess up the bloodline of the Lu family. Where can the Lu family put their face? Father This woman is provoking She wants to use you to kill Shi Yi Is it provocation? I know better than you Initially I shouldn't Let you marry the Wen family now The Wen Family Falls This woman's belly Still pregnant with unclear wild seeds How can I be assured? Keep her with you Father She is Baoer She is the treasure I have been looking for. She saved your life That's her blessing. not to mention You have divorced her. She even took a pregnant Take the abandoned woman home Where can we put our Lu family's reputation? She is not an abandoned woman She is my wife cousin Wen Shiyi goes to Paramount Wen Shiyi goes to Paramount You were there that day A daughter of a good family Would you go to that kind of place? No I went to Paramount Because Bai Mudan told me As long as I help there She will tell me News from Brother Xiaoshan Wen Shiyi What does Bai Mudan say? What do you believe? Are you stupid? Or do you think This lie can deceive us. Miss Wen No matter what you do at Paramount No matter what you do at Paramount But you went anyway. Who knew you were in Paramount? Who knew you were in Paramount? Is there any With those dubious people No You must believe me I believe you Father No matter what you say I believe in time. This divorce letter It doesn't count anymore She is my wife, Lu Qingshan. If she really has a bastard in her belly Our Lu family's ancestors Isn't it a shame No matter what you say I believe in time. good good My good son For a woman who dares to disobey me Since you choose She becomes your wife That's my Lu family's daughter-in-law. As the head of the Lu family, She should listen to me. You can choose to commit suicide To prove innocence What are you going to do? Our Lu Family A woman who has never lost her virginity Since she chose Be my Lu family's daughter-in-law OK As long as she dies You can enter our Lu family's ancestral tomb Wen Shiyi Don't you like your cousin? Then you definitely don't want to Let him be ashamed. Be decent Suicide For the children I have to be strong I can't die I obviously didn't do anything wrong Why risk your own life? Prove your innocence If you don't do it Then I will clean up the mess myself. Then kill me first. Bastard You are threatening me yes cousin You are for Wen Shiyi Disobeying Uncle Lu? Shut up good I can't kill her. The baby in her belly Must not stay What Absolutely not No negotiation No matter the baby in her belly Is it from the Lu family? As long as you have been to the Paramount You have to die Uncle Lu I've prepared the abortion pills. Feed now? No Qingshan This is your child You can't knock him out. Father I won't allow you Anyone who hurts Her life And the life of the baby in her belly You can only choose one Qingshan You know my methods You must choose one today Time The child is gone We can have it again What do you mean You want to abort this child. Lu Qingshan He is your child Time I can lose my child But I can't lose you again If you can't even protect your child How can you protect me? Time I promise you As long as you eat it I promise that no one will I can bully you again You are hurting the child now You are hurting me Don't come over here Don't come over here Let me go ah My child Lu Qingshan I kill you Time sorry Wen Shiyi Qingshan Are you okay? This is what you taught me Who bullies me? I'm going to give it back Wen Shiyi I kill you Father don't want This shot I owe it to you. Father Uncle Lu What a good show! You are the spy. I just discovered it now. It's late Young Marshal Thanks to Miss Miaoqing. If you hadn't called the Marshal I really don't know Do I have a chance? Get rid of him yourself. It turns out that all this This is all a conspiracy between you and Lu Miaoqing I teamed up with her Get rid of you and Wen Shiyi You've been by my side for so many years Been with me for so long On weekdays I treat you well Why did you betray me? Because I want revenge revenge I'm afraid you can't even dream of it. The one who kidnapped you and Wen Shiyi Bandit leader It's my father Your father Your father is looking for you Killed all our people in the village My father died in front of me That scene I will never forget it in my life So I want your dad Die in front of you That's your dad. Bullying men and women Do all kinds of evil Your father deserved to die But he is my dad Lu Qingshan You think your Lu family How clean is it? You are just wearing this skin Isn't it the same behind the scenes? Are you committing murder and arson? Who is nobler than whom? Less for a woman You two, father and son Can actually turn against each other It's so beautiful I'm still thinking How can I kill you? Unexpectedly It's so easy to get revenge. You can kill me You let Wen Shiyi go otherwise None of you will leave alive today. Ms. Miao Qing Are you willing to let Lu Qingshan die? Lu Qingshan I'll ask you one last time Do you wanna be with me? I wish I could kill you oops Miss Miaoqing It seems that the young commander doesn't like you very much. I'm infatuated with you Wrong payment In this case Then you go die. Are you really willing to let Lu Qingshan die? What I can't get No one else can get it I'd rather he died. Don't want to be cheap Wen Shiyi good I like Miss Miaoqing This fierceness Not as good as Be more ruthless Wouldn't it be better to kill Lu Qingshan with your own hands? Kill the person you love with your own hands His life is yours. Qingshan Didn't expect that? You finally fell into my hands I knew you were a wolf that could never be tamed. Initially You should be left to fend for yourself. Untamed Wolves Lu Qingshan I have loved you for so many years Why can't you Look at me more If you look at me more We won't fall Today's Field You forced me to do this. I forgot to kill you. It's you You killed my child. I want revenge for him. We can compare Whose gun is faster? A woman compared her shooting skills with me I'll send it now I'll send it now Time Are you okay? roll Time Time I beg you You haven't eaten for several days. Have a bite. Let me go You know I don't want to lose you anymore I won't let you leave Lu Qingshan You won't feel yourself Very affectionate, right? Do you really love me? Don't you forget When I married into the Lu family The first person to embarrass me It's you sorry Sorry Shi Yi I didn't know it was you. So what? You don't know it's me You can bully people at will, right? If today You don't know I'm Bao'er So I'll never get it? Your apology Sorry Shi Yi It's all my fault I should die As long as you can Forgive me You can let me do anything. Yeah Then go die. I don't dare Your confession It's just talk. It's a matter of life and death. You won't die. Time I know I know you're still angry so You stab me As long as you can forgive me You can stab me any way you want. Lu Qingshan What on earth are you doing? repent A look of deep affection It makes me sad Let me have mercy Still good for me Unable to withstand moral kidnapping Then forgive you BoA What do you want? To forgive me unless June Snow The whole city is in mourning otherwise I will never forgive you In fact, Lu Miaoqing There is a saying that is true Who takes the jade pendant? Who do you love? Lu Qingshan I should say you Affectionate Or should I say you Stupid The love between you and me To the end It's just a jade pendant. I want to find you so much I was momentarily obsessed. I've done so many things that I'm sorry for. I don't know where you are suffering But I think I should suffer with you. Lost with you Every day I feel like I'm falling into the abyss | Before I found you I think I don't think I deserve happiness Don't deserve happiness oh So what? Lu Qingshan I beg you I beg you Let me go Wen Shiyi Don't go too far how The nature is exposed I can't pretend anymore Lu Qingshan actually You are not a sentimental person. You've always wanted to find me It's just for Make up for the part in your heart Guilt So that you Just live in peace Stop talking If you really love me Please respect me Respect me I don't want to see you again Respect my intention to leave You shut up Your whole life Don't even think about leaving me Lu Qingshan I hate you Hate it Hate Me Better than not seeing me You really want to Let me go Extra Young Marshal Lu Qingshan fights with bandits Yesterday, Lu Jiajun completely annihilated What do you want? To forgive me Unless it snows in June The whole city is in mourning Last year on this day, Last year on this day, The face of a man and the peach blossoms complement each other No one knows where the face has gone Peach blossoms still smile in the spring breeze