Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. The Earth is spinning and we are spinning along with Earth suddenly stopped spinning? gain weight. But that would be the least of your worries. The spin of our planet is important and literally giving you the time of your life. At the equator, the surface of Earth, and everything on it, is spinning around at As you move closer to the poles you Earths daily rotation. east at 368 meters per second. independent of the Earth's rotation, the this quickly. Pretty cool. But, of course, the Earth doesn't move underneath me We are all spinning with the Earth and magical planetary breaks that caused classically called earth to stop Immediately everything that wasn't Earth, and wasn't safely at the poles, and be flung due east at more than a You wouldn't be flung into space because but your body would instantly become a 9.5 inch caliber bullet. Well, really more of a supersonic tumbleweed. Because the atmosphere would more assuming they could navigate the chance of surviving. Astronauts aboard the ISS would fare even better. But it is unlikely that anyone would be waiting for them down on the ground. Runways would just be entrances to the new planet-sized graveyard, created by the no longer spinning Earth. People really really near the poles only at first. Gusts of wind, as fast as would blast, pass the surface and up into the of unprecedented magnitude. The friction alone, caused by the now stopped Earth colliding massive fires, unparalleled erosion and damage to after the initial braking. The Sun would became not 24 hours long but 365 days long. Without spinning innards, Earth's and we would be dosed with deadly The oceans would surge onto land in all dry land, before migrating to the poles, where gravity is stronger, no longer held to Earth's spin gave them, until Earth itself, no longer bulging an extra 42 of its rotation slowly compressed into a more perfect sphere than it is now. Possibly allowing the That is what would occur if it actually happened. woah, its rotation is slowing down. More on that later. First, if the Earth why can't we feel it? Why doesn't the Earth's rotation make us dizzy? Well, lucky for us, the change in velocity is just too It's like driving in a car that takes 6 hours and six thousand miles to make left turn. It's not sudden enough to with our senses. But that change in velocity is real and it makes us way less, because of inertia. On our spinning changing but always tangential to the circular path you were Now, because inertia is a property of your body, without a force acting upon us we would slowly leave the surface of Earth. Luckily, the Earth is exerting a force on us. centripetal force, delivered by gravity. The centripetal force required to keep from Earth's total gravitational pull on you. The remaining force simply pushes you down, toward the centre of the Earth - it gives you weight. At the equator, if the Earth didn't spin, keep you with the Earth, you would weigh 0.3 percent more than you currently do. If Earth spun you around 17 times faster than it currently does, would go toward centripetal force and you would be weightless. So here's a diet idea. Hope that the Earth starts spinning faster and go back for guilt-free seconds. Seconds. We know exactly how long a second is. The outermost electron of an atom of cesium 133 is alone. When the atom is undisturbed, only the nucleus interacts with this outermost electron, tickling it regularly and rapidly between two levels. After 9,192,631,770 oscillations between those two levels, Exactly. That is literally the definition of a second. We can measure and count those oscillations. It's how atomic clocks work. Making atomic clocks, the most accurate measurement device We can't define a second more simply, as say, 1/60th of 1/60th of 1/24th of a day because of Earth's spin. It's too irregular. Little changes in the distribution of mass on Earth, or man-made dams or technically even you walking up stairs or downstairs, cause Earth's rotational speed to change. Like a figure skater moving their arms Now add on top of that the fact that tides, caused by the Moon, drag against Earth's rotation and you unstable rotation speed that is predominately slowing down. Now, these changes are incredibly incredibly they add up. In 140 million years, a day on earth will not be 24 hours long, it will be 25. That might not sound like much but in order to do important things, like we need a more accurate timekeeping device than that. So, as a solution scientists keep the pace of seconds TAI time. And other scientists measure the changing speed of Earth's and quasars. Now, every few months they Earth is running, and if it's getting too off, they decide to add or subtract the The result is the time used almost everywhere, including your phone: UTC. Since this system began in 1972 25 leap seconds have been added. What this means is that clock time is, and has to be, a manufactured product with upgrades and tune ups administered periodically, after defects are noticed. The time we give to now and the future is only ever approximate. That's weird but it's also entirely not weird. As Demetrios Matsakis, the Chief Naval Observatory puts it, &quot;we save lives and we end lives. We add time and we but in both cases we do so understanding exactly what life is, or what time is.&quot; Regardless, thank you for spending some and as always, thanks for watching.