Hey everybody, Happy Monday. Today, in light of COVID 19 I really wanted to talk with you about And hopefully lower our panic response. And I talked about this last week a little And what that really is. But if you haven't seen that video, What fight, flight and freeze is, is really a way Our brain is always seeking out threat, To find it, so we can either run from it, We can find ourselves in a freeze state. And being in fight, flight and freeze Make us impulsive, right. If we are going to run away, We don't have time to think about it. And so it can narrow our vision, And overall make us really But, really good at running from a threat. Also our stress response puts Instead of our wise mind. And our wise mind, I like to Or you know, quality of thought Because I know being an adult doesn't necessarily However, being in a stress response puts Where we are run by impulse And we don't really take the time to make And we really need to be When we have a lot of variables Like with the Corona Virus, We don't have a lot of information. We are not really sure. There's too many variables. And so we need to be In order to make thoughtful and And I believe that this struggle, We're in fight, flight, freeze, Our brain is like, really emotional, We have all of these variables, There's so much information, We find ourselves in a sense of panic. And if we find ourselves Or sense of panic for It can lead to all sorts of &gt;From increased symptoms of Depression, thoughts of suicide, And that's why it's really important that we talk Self sooth, and just find some And my first tip, Is to shake it off. I know that sounds really crazy. But if you remember way back to my videos She talked about a Somatic Experiencing. And I will link the video in the But if you don't remember, Psychologist, Peter Levine, He saw animals in the Let's say, a bear is about to eat me, I run, and once I have I do a full body shake, As a way to regulate my system. Or to bring it back to like So moving our bodies can actually help Now I know, everyone's body is different, So do what you can. Maybe you do a quick stretch, I love yoga with Adriene, You can check her out. Or maybe you do a more intensive workout. Whatever you can do to move Can help our nervous system regulate Now one of the reasons that Is because we build up these resources to You know, because life So along with moving our bodies, We need to have other ways And one resource that can help is Sure it's easy to be like, I'm super anxious, But take some time during your day Are you feeling sad? Because, I don't know about you, But I have been sad off and on, because How they are doing, Are they coping, Are they healthy, Are they safe. Maybe you are feeling angry. Or possibly tomorrow you will be Taking the time to tap in and be Helps us, not only notice what's But it also gives us an Instead of, just stuffing it down. By simply noting the emotion, And then using it in a sentence, Or thinking about maybe It can help us feel so much better. So give it a try, And let's just start by trying to come And we'll work towards coming up You know, after we kind And next, Let's make time for meaningful conversations If friends and family are not safe, It's okay for this to be your As I mentioned in my COVID 19 video, The antidote for this constant Is to connect socially. Since we can't meet up with It's still important to set Whether that's through skype, zoom, Make time to talk with others. It not only reminds us But also lets us vent And hopefully laugh when we can. My next tip is to allow Grieve the loss of events And how life used to be. I know many of you have let me know Family reunions, Milestone birthday parties, Dream vacations, And much much more. Also I know many of you have Or have personally been harmed by it. It's important to acknowledge our losses, And feel how we need to feel about it. We can't just pretend it's life as usual, When it doesn't really It's okay to be sad, mad, And even mentally, you know, So give yourself the time. Grieve. Feel it. It's a hard, difficult situation that we're in. And my next tip, Distract. Sometimes we just can't Instead of letting that spiral Distract with healthy coping These could be things like, Organising a part of your home, Playing a game, Colouring, Calling a friend, Watching funny animals I love that. Or really anything that And it gets you to think about And I know that you all have a lot of So please feel free to leave You never know who you could help. And my next tip, And something that I'm Having healthy boundaries. Now I know this sounds really weird, And this was like a last minute Because I realised this morning that I'm Meaning, I'm worried about Sarah, Because I don't know I'm worried about my And are hourly workers I'm worried about my mom, And if she's going to come Because she was in Mexico I'm worried. And that worry and that pre-occupation It's been so draining. And so, what I would encourage you to do, And what I am going to do, Is, when those thoughts pop up, I'm worried, what if, I wonder how they are, I should check in, I should check in, -Deep breath- I'm going to breathe. I'm going to use some And I'm going to do something else. I'm gonna distract. Because that only takes energy from us, And at a time when We really just need to know that we can When we have the energy, And it's okay to just focus on ourselves. Just for a minute. The best thing we can And tap in. And my final tip, See a therapist. If you are feeling hopeless, helpless, Or feel that the anxiety of what is For you to do anything during the day. Please reach out for help. I know we can't go and see a But thanks to technology, We have so many so many other We so desperately need and deserve. So check out resources like Or even just crisis text line for And if you don't know, Crisis text line is 741 741, And you can just text, Howdy, Hello, Help me, Whatever. They have people there 24/7. They are not professionals, They are not therapists, But they are trained crisis counsellors. If you are currently seeing a therapist, Email them and see when they have We need professional help So don't wait. The sooner we reach out, The sooner we can start feeling better. I know this is a really And I hope you don't think this video is in any way Instead, I hope it offers some insight And overcome this time of panic. Thank you so much for watching. Please take care of yourself. Stay home. And I will see you next time, bye. Subtitles by the Amara.org community