(upbeat music) - Hello and welcome to here at the Smithsonian brought to you by Boeing. I'm Mike Hankins. I'm one of the curators to be joined today by who flew in this airplane Thank you so much for joining us today. - Thank you, Mike, I'm glad to be here. - Alright, we wanna talk to you about your experiences in your life. So let's kind of start What got you into flying and made you wanna join the Air Force? - A long time ago when I was I saw a movie. It was called The Hunters and Robert Wagner in it, and they were flying F-86s, And when I saw that, I said, I wanna do. And then, someone said, to do this. And I said, sign me up. And that was the beginning of wanting to be in the Air Force. - So you were originally an and, eventually, get in the Blackbird. So what is that selection process like? Is this an airplane that you sought after or how did you get onboard this program? - Well, long story to actually fly because of some things that happened to me or was happening to me during my early childhood. And so I decided I wanted to So I went to Howard University, majored in mechanical engineering coz they did not have at Howard at the time. And because Howard was a I was in ROTC now. I was helped to be an ROTC coz of number five. So I was going in, really I went to a nap. So that process got me into the air force and got me going into avionics. The SR-71, this is a late 60s You kind of heard about it but you didn't know anything about that. The thing I wanted to to get into the f4, f-105 Wild Weasel, that's where I want to go. - You wanted to do Wild Weasel. - That's what I wanted to do. That's what I want to do. That's a long path to Everything happened in a different way. I flew Air Force, I And that taught me right then and there that the C 130 was an But when you got shot at, you and you couldn't shoot back. So I wanted to get out of the And I ended up getting into the f-4. And I flew it for almost five years. The F-4 is about a 1.7 mock airplane maybe about 50,000 feet. That's, a dash not a cruise. And after flying that I had an F-111 is a high speed, that airplane could do 800 the ground at night, in the weather. And I enjoyed that. And from that assignment So it was a long period It wasn't that I decided I'm going to fly the SR-71. It didn't happen that way. - So what's the training on the Blackbird? I imagine that's pretty grueling. - Well, it is grueling. I had a an excellent instructor, his name is Kurt Astor Hill, he happens to be in the audience now. If you can imagine going in for a practice root that's about what the ASR You spent almost a year in the simulator. And each one of those to four hours long, but the debrief is nearly as long, about another three hours. So about a seven to eight hour ordeal, about three times a week, almost as long as the shuttle training is. The only difference is, by you've flown about 1000 I'd already been through three airplanes. And about the eight month you start flying. And that's when you instructor whispering in your ear. All of those things that you saw in the simulator, start to I was really fortunate because everything that Kurt told me, that could happen to me bad, happened to me bad. And the fact that he prepared me for it, really made the difference. And a couple of times. the difference of being - Yeah. So tell us a little bit What is it that makes it so special? What did you like about it? What's it unique? - As you look at it, it's a big airplane, it's 107 feet, from the nose to the tail. It's 55 feet from wingtip to from top to bottom. In my life of flying, there The internal fuel of an of a T-38. The internal fuel of a F-111 The internal fuel of this of F-111. So you could go right along that way and know by the way, the weight the internal fuel of a C-130. So they all relate. This airplane is unique. When I flew the 111 they said, this airplane will do about 2.6 I thought, Man, that's great. An F-4 is about 1.7 miles. And when they told me this airplane is a Mach three airplane, coz in the F-4, once you put you had maybe about eight This airplane cruise If you're not doing 2000 miles an hour, it's like driving around on the brake and one foot on the gas. I was blown away when Kurt told me, okay, once you get to speed, you're to point B, that was about 1600 miles. How are we gonna do this? He said you're gonna cruise at 2134 miles, it's not gonna take you an That's that's kind of how it was. That was the most unique thing about it. Because you would take off in and you would be in London and a half hours. When you think about most people from California to New York. It is the most unique And that's the thing that Because its designed for 60 miles up over 85,000 feet and moving at 2000 miles an hour. It's faster than a bullet. - I'm just curious what that feels like you're up 80,000 feet, you're going three times What's that experience? - Okay, Hollywood has When you see the Hollywood we just went through the speed of sound. You see these colors and are grunting and groaning. No, that's not what happens. You're at, essentially one G. You may see the mach meter And because as you go transonic, and then it proceeds over. So you don't have that big rush or a whole lot of physical feeling. The biggest thing that in a spacesuit and inside the spacesuit, everything that you do, you share it with yourself intimately. I'm trying to be delicate. But you tend not to go to the Sonic and buy the extra large coat with the chili dog, with the extra onions. Because as those of us and in particular spacesuit know very well the air comes around your and up under your nose. So if you had that chili dog, and you feel as if you're When you do get relief, it - So you're wearing a what is the pre flight to fly this airplane? That's got to be pretty taxing. - The pre flight, there are if you will. Let's let's deal with the Normally you know a few days in advance where you're gonna go and you're doing your mission planning, maybe the day before, because the day of, you don't have time for that. So you've done all your mission planning. You know what's gonna happen, they told you what kind of And that's the one about my cockpit. Once you've done that on as you go into the planning area or into the operations area, you're gonna take a minute physical. They're gonna take your blood pressure, they're gonna take your temperature, they're gonna ask you what you had to eat. They're gonna ask you when was the last time you- those things. And then once you've gone through that, you go into the mission briefing. And because you have that spacesuit on, you're not gonna do like 111, going around and knock You're not gonna do that. You have a pre flight crew So in that day as you you have all of your information with you, and you get into the airplane. And once you get into the airplane, that's a whole nother set of pre checks, because we don't take off and pass every one of these pre checks, coz at 80,000 feet and 2000 miles an hour. That's not the time to You should know about this Part of that pre check portion is when you bring the baler and the faceplate down you're gonna be in that situation for about 25 minutes to a half hour, which purges your body off nitrogen, which gets rid of having the And once you've gone through that and gone through all your The inlet checks, the engines, that takes you about a half hour, then out to the end of room where you go, and you're not talking to anybody. Everybody in the world So you don't have to tell the tower you're gonna go to 80,000 feet you're going anyway. So the picture that you're who's sitting in the second row, back when he had a lot darker hair and probably a 28 inch waist. - Got it. - That's that's the one if you have the spacesuit on in October, and you tend to go to for Thanksgiving and for Christmas dinner and then you had a big New Year's celebration dinner, well, when you put that spacesuit on, and attempt to stand up, its gonna grab every little place where that pumpkin pie went, every little place and dressing went. It's gonna tell you, you You're gonna know. So at that time, we were all pretty much, whenever weight we started because those suits were The helmet's about $15,000 each, and each person had a primary Everything was backed up. The airplane had a series But Kurt taught me he said are very important, Walter, but if the MA one computer doesn't work, doesn't matter what they're saying. Well, where do we keep He says, well, look inside your helmet, when your head is in I get it now. (laughs) - So you're wearing the spacesuit, you're up this high and the exterior plane is at least 600 degrees. Something like that, is the cockpit, is this a comfortable experience? Is it pressurized, is it air conditioned? How's that feel? - The cockpit is pressurized. Brian and I, I guess we just a little cooler than maybe others. The suit itself once it's fitted The airplane itself is not to fly in. I couldn't imagine but because you're so focused on what's happening around you. The physical things kind of drop away. You don't know that you're And one of the first things in here, there's a post mission picture and you can see by looking that experience we had over was traumatic on our body And then you see I'm not pale here. But what happened? This is the picture here. This is a post mission picture and that paleness comes how to adjust your helmet, because you adjust the helmet up here and it tightens the face seal. Well for someone who is your complexion, you may not notice it, but someone my complexion - Yeah, yeah. So I want to talk a little of specific things you were doing, coz there's two seats here. We've got the pilot at the front. - Brian Shul was my pilot. - Right, so you're the And you're dealing with cameras, and electronic warfare stuff. So tell us about those kinds on a typical mission. - On a typical mission, there that we could do, a number It depended on who we The biggest thing that is Brian's cockpit stayed the same. The J-58 inches in the The hydraulic system didn't change. The liquid oxygen system didn't change. But for us in the backseat, we may have an all optical sensor package, we may have a radar package, we're always gonna be doing some type of electronic intelligence, if you will. And we're always responsible for defending the airplane electronically. The hardest thing about all of what's going on with because things are happening at 33 miles a minute. And because things are coming up fast, you got to anticipate them. I had an instructor, and he'd just say well, the is not necessarily be And because you're not if you passed it, you passed it, and you're not going back to it. I enjoyed being able with the various system packages, and that's what I liked about it. The thing that got your that somebody was looking at you, and they intended to end your weekend. And when you pick up those signals, that was a time when you and Brian, Brian and I had to be able to communicate. So okay, here's what I think is happening. Here's what's going on. And please, sir, if you got a chance, let's go a little faster. And because if we can go faster, we can defeat most threats. You asked me earlier about intercepts. Every place we went that could try to intercept An NSF process, especially and further north, near the Soviet Union. The Soviet guys, they like to play games. And they realized that as long as you're in an international area, But what they're looking to make a mistake, or for the airplane to have a problem, and So now they can be a big of the sky. But most often, the You will see them come in, because you can see their contrail. And what they're doing, to do what we call a snap up attack. They try to get it exactly and try to pitch up to but in this process you're they're doing maybe So it's a 3000 mile closure. Well as they start up this ramp you see their contrail stop. Well, that's good news. And the good news is, what's happened is they've started their engine over and he doesn't He's more concentrated on trying get this hydraulics back on past him. But if you had a problem he would, he would make sure that you didn't get to spend the weekend at home. - Right, right. So the importance of this airplane then is in this intel capability. Can you tell us I mean, to the - Yes. - what types of information There's photographic reconnaissance, there's other types of reconnaissance and what locations kind of- - I'll be generic, because you that has a shooting range, where and then we take you down range, and they do what they need to do. But Brian and I operated on this globe, in the European in the Southeast Asian area. We would go out to ascertain what our adversaries were doing. A lot of times we went out Okay? If they set all of their ships to in port, are they in fact in-port? If you told us that you of T-72 tanks in this Which gave the national to be able to negotiate from a position of knowledge and power. Ronald Reagan was Brian and I flew the mission during what was called El Dorado Canyon, which was the raid on Libya in 1986. And Muammar Gaddafi had for a bombing in Berlin that killed a couple Army soldiers. And the United States of their resources in Libya. We did pros in pre-trike to ensure that the F-111s hit their targets. The guys in the F-111s about two years before. I knew both of the guys. One of the guys who lost their life, guy named Fernando Rivas, who But that's the kind of But the SR has been known to It was a guy named Joe McHugh and his crew who went out and found a And no one else could find him, but they could go out and survey the sea. This airplane can survey 100,000 So you can do a whole And I was really surprised has gone away from our inventory. But I will also tell you, it costs about a million dollars an hour to fly this airplane. And some people would say a lot of money. Yeah, a lot of money. But just think about it this way. If you wanted to make a military a whole squadron of F-35, of Marines and Army soldiers, when the guy's giving a speech. And this airplane makes It interrupts his speech, That has happened before. - Wow, that's incredible. So, are there any particular missions, you mentioned El Dorado Canyon, and I know you flew in Are there any other kind that stand out to you - Those two, the El Dorado I've talked about Southeast Asia first. Brian I had a mission to in And when I was in a C-130, I of a bomb that was about 16,000 pound bomb that went off on an And that bomb was dropped for the USS Midwest. And that was one of the last things I did before I left Southeast Asia. Well, when Brian and I one of my navigational and I could still see the hole where that bomb had dropped years earlier. That was really interesting about that and Brian said what do you know this place so well? And I said not only its not too far from here been shut down. So we knew that area well. Probably the most known mission that Brian and I flew was because we flew consecutively three days. That normally didn't Normally an SR crew would fly one day, then your backup crew for the next day. And normally you're down the next day, and then maybe the fourth But Brian and I flew every day. I didn't realize how much of But, it was so much adrenaline running that I didn't think about it. We would launch as primary crew The next day, we're the as a backup crew. And then the third day, we launch again, and that was a lot of work. A lot of backing up and we were We were at Milling Hall at a time. But that was really one because we knew without a doubt We knew that that was, in fact, one of the things that to refuel in the Mediterranean, of a KC-135, no KC-10 and every time we will hook so Brian said, what were you doing back there? and I said I'm not doing anything. So I can't stay on every it kicks us off. And I said I know what they're doing. They're trying to talk and every time they talk they would kick us off. So I said, Okay, all right. Let me give them a code, and try to find out what something very important. So long story short, I got to the KC guys and I said, Okay, what is it that you're trying to tell us? He said, Hey, be careful. I said, hey, we just dropped of bomb on them. Yes, they are gonna shoot. Ain't not about that And oh, by the way, we're still going in. I said, thank you very much. We'll jus have the rest of the gas we go. I appreciate them. What they were trying to tell us is, the Navy would back this up. So if we had any problems, they would be able to back us up but I knew they were going to shoot at us and that day, I believe they did. Everything I got all the indicators I got. Said they fired at us. Now there's some people who wanna argue that we don't have any And to those people I say, well, you weren't in the cockpit, and everything that says they shot according yap, they shot. The only good thing is they missed. - So you and Brian Shul had to work together very closely, obviously. Can you tell us a little bit about how that relationship between over time and gets built? - Brian was a single and AT-38 and A-7 before we got together. And Brian would often tell there used to be a time in my life where I would rather have than have you. And I said yeah Brian you would but 165 pounds of gas going makes you just as dead. But that process of bringing to be able to get us to between the two cockpits. You can't see him, he can't see you, you're just a voice at That was a reason why the That process to the sim, was getting you to be able to communicate that you didn't have to use all of the words to communicate a problem. Now Brian was a typical fighter pilot. Every knob instrument gauge for it. So I had to learn what and what the MF was, and how this works. And once I understood his language, I can now understand what And the difference is most We had to learn both cockpits. They didn't have to learn our cockpit. We had to know cockpit far better than we knew our own cockpit because their cockpit got us home, you'd be nice to bring back some stuff. But that front cockpit got us home. So Brian and I has been a lot Everything we studied was classified. So we had to study in the squadron or at the assembly, and had to learn our how we communicate it to we didn't just fly the SR-71, with a T-38. So we would go out and fly a T-38. So we would get used to in and out of airfields and approach how we So we got real used to The beauty of it was we we've been around. So we kind of knew the language. So that was a process, the first seven to eight months of it was getting us to be able to communicate because I don't know how many it would start off with Kurt would say, you didn't communicate. That's the reason why you and Brian was telling you another problem. You were not communicating If there's an in that problem, you work in alpha within limits, and you go into that I wanna say like somewhere between 64 and 107 emergency procedures that you had to have to remember. You didn't have time to go to You had to have those remembered? So you'd go through those things. So as soon as something that checklist you had to onstart. The first thing Brian alpha within limits, because he wanted to make sure rollover and start down. That was the biggest part of that training process, - Now you have the and I believe only African of the SR-71. Can you tell us about what it's like to be an African American in the 70s and 80s. Were there any kind of to overcome? - So we're gonna be here all day, right? - We have a few minutes. - Often when I sign my I will say, as you see this picture here, you can see all of the African Americans who have ever flown the airplane. If you look on your far and I don't know who I'm looking at. But that's Kurt behind me, actually over to the left behind me, along with Joe. I often sign the first, last and only. There is some hesitation because I never thought it would be only. I always thought there'd be In fact, EPA had been in I ran across some 111 and they said, well, there was a guy. His name was Sam Johnson who But long story short, Sam was killed in a F-11 accident. So I ended up being the first guy there. I often tease, Brian, In the SR, you don't normally Brian and I had an oil problem, and we landed at Colorado Springs. So when I got out of the airplane, I said, Okay, I'm gonna keep my gloves on. I'm gonna keep my helmet on So my job was to get out So I got out of the airplane and I pin the landing gear in I And as I got towards the cockpit, somehow a crowd had gathered So I waited till the crowd and I took off my helmet. And you can hear the people gasp. Someone said he's already burned up. (crowd laughs) And so a lot of times people will say, are you sure you're the or someone started telling about this black guy, and I But historically speaking, my wife and I've been in or me and another guy. And one of those other guys, is a reason why I'm His name is Leon Armor. And I Leon on my second F-4 tour, and Leon told me, he said, hey, to do to be successful and I thought, I've in the air force a little about being successful. And Leon said, No, you don't. And Leon's a black guy, when I was in elementary school, and I took great pleasure because I stayed in the same dorm, I was in the first grade when he was in that dorm as a freshman. So I always tease him about that. So he said, hey, you as you go out here, you're You're representing all of us. When I was in 111, there to the wing later. And when I was in F-4s, I who was a black guy. Graduated from Air and the one time that we went on a practice bombing the air traffic controllers lost us and the squadron commander, he said, well, when did they lose you? We told him, he said what We told him, he said, oh And I thought, that's not too funny. You see two black guys in the There's no way you're gonna find you guys. And I said if that were I'd believe that. But it has been an inspiration the SR, it gave me an and talk to people and what their ethnicity to make your goal, your passion. If you want to be an engineer, I said, there's no reason wearing this SR pin, because of the things that happened to me, and I'll share those with you now. When I was a little kid, I had something called to have operations on my eye. So I had a patch on my of the first grade. They should call me, all kinds of names. You know how kids are, pirate, patch, whatever it is, cyclops, whatever they could call me. But, that didn't bother me nearly as much. But what did bother me the teacher told my mother said, hey, the best grade he's ever is gonna be a D because as they looked at it. Now nowadays, they have a big word for it. And I don't know if that applies to me, but the word is dyslexia. They said, that's the reason why you're having such problems. Well, my mother was an aspiring and she said, hey, what I was interested in airplanes So all the books you could to do that. My father was an electronic technician. He says, if you're interested in science, I'll encourage you in science. So I did science projects, and that's saying I overcame those things. But I was able to get I was able to earn a One of my classmates His name is Mike long. We struggled through engineering. Michael's much smarter than me. He didn't struggle as much, And on top of all of that, you got a guy who had operation on his eyes, had some type of reading problem. Well, the one thing that I know for sure, and my wife, Joyce will tell you this is I am definitely colorblind. When you look in the little book, to do the color blindness test, I see the six. And after that, did that I have no idea. One of the guys asked me he said, how do you cure yourself I said, well, I don't know of being left handed, You don't cure yourself. You overcome it. They gave me a different type of test. My flight surgeon taught me and I passed the test. And the rest is history. - Yeah. We are about out of Thank you so much Colonel Please give him a round of applause. - Thank you. - And thank you to all of Thank you for Boeing, for and we will see you all next time. - Thank you