Hey there guys. Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video, we're going to be covering essential chiller terms. Now, these are terms you when they talk about chillers to understand exactly So, by the end of this in chiller terminology. Now, we're going to cover amount of time so I advise and that you also make We'll cover the basics of each then you can check the links Just before we get started to thank our partner Danfoss Danfoss wants to help longer-lasting and more efficient chillers and they have a wide range of solutions to make that possible. In fact, they have up to for your chiller systems AC drives, system valves, electronics and even sensors. It doesn't matter what kind of Danfoss have products that can increase reliability and reduce the impact on the environment. All of these solutions design and create better You can get started by heading Refrigeration cycle, this is moves around the inside of the chiller or any refrigeration system. The compressor is the driving The refrigerant leaves the high-temperature gas and The condenser cools the refrigerant and rejects the thermal The refrigerant then leaves the condenser as a high pressure liquid. The refrigerant then heads which reduces the pressure a low-pressure liquid vapor mixture. The refrigerant then passes where the unwanted heat This boils the refrigerant As it evaporates, it takes which the compressor then Refrigerant, this is a which moves around the collecting the unwanted and moving this over to the condenser so that the heat can be It changes states between liquid and gas during the refrigeration cycle. It is moved around the The refrigerant stays within the chiller and is always kept separate and the chilled water. The refrigerants will have strange names such as R134A, R1233ZD Condenser, this is where the is rejected to the atmosphere, either through an air cooled The refrigerant which from the evaporator over to the condenser will enter as a high and as the thermal energy is rejected, it will leave as a high pressure liquid. Condenser water, this between the cooling of a water cooled chiller. This picks up all the which was transferred It also collects the in certain designs. The condenser water is where the heat is removed and it then returns back to the condenser to pick up more heat. A typical temperature would or 89.6 degrees Fahrenheit and a return of 27 degrees and these numbers are just typical and they can and will vary from this. Air cooled, this refers These are located outside the building, usually on the roof or down Very rarely, these are but they can be fitted with These types of chillers do not they instead use fans to which is why they are Water cooled, this refers which uses the condenser to remove the heat from the condenser. These are located inside the building, typically in the basement. Evaporator, the evaporator of the building is collected over to the condenser. As the unwanted heat it will cause a refrigerant As it evaporates, it over to the condenser. The refrigerant enters the evaporator as a low pressure liquid it will leave as a low pressure vapor. Chilled water, the chiller This chilled water will between the chillers evaporator within the building. A pump will force the chilled to the coils within the air handling units and the fan coil units where will be transferred over into the water. This cools the air down and This warm chilled water then returns to the chillers evaporator As the heat is dumped, it and carry this heat away to cool down again. Once it is cooled down, it'll to repeat the cycle and collect more heat. A typical temperature of the chilled water are a flow of six degrees Celsius and a return of 12 degrees Celsius or 53.6 degrees Fahrenheit. These numbers can and will One pass, two pass and three pass. This refers to a water cooled and the way that the water refrigerant is piped through this component. In a one pass, the fluid but for greater heat transfer, back on itself, one or two times to increase the transfer This will allow more Compressor, this moves the to collect the unwanted and move it over to the condenser. Some of the different designs are centrifugal type which to induce a centrifugal which forces it around the system. Turbo core which is a of the centrifugal type rotating impellers to Screw type which uses two to squeeze refrigerant and thus compresses it. Scroll type which uses two spiral disks, one is stationary and the compressor refrigerant and squeeze it into a smaller space. Reciprocating type which to compress a refrigerant Cooling tower, often referred These sit on the outside of the building, usually on the roof and are only used with water cooled chillers. They will be either wet use fans to move air through the tower. With wet type, the condenser and the water is sprayed which removes the heat In a dry type, the and the water passes where the air stream blows Additionally, some cooling over the cooling coils Hot gas bypass. Now, this is only used on some chillers. It is used to create an to stop the chiller from as well as protecting the under low load conditions. A control valve is used along to recirculate hot refrigerant discharge line and send of the evaporator thus so that heat is added to the evaporator to create a false load. This is a pretty inefficient strategy. The energy that went into the compression of the refrigerant will provide If you're using this is likely way oversized. COP, COP stands for the It's simply a ratio of per unit of electricity you put in which is a way of measuring To calculate COP, it's simply divided by the kilowatts of electricity. For example, 2500 kilowatts of cooling divided by 460 kilowatts of electricity equals a COP of 5.4. So, for every one kilowatt of electricity you put into the chiller, it will generate 5.4 kilowatts of cooling. It is useful for measuring the efficiency at a specific point in time Motor starter, large with single compressors can have enormous inrush This means a large flow of power through the building's electrical system and into the chiller. This can cause damage to the and deteriorates the equipment. You might have experienced of a fridge in your house turns on and all the lights dip for a split second. To combat this, chillers which limit the inrush These are either built into the compressor or they're housed in a case on the chiller or they're housed remotely There are many different Variable speed drive or VFD. Some chillers will use This effectively does but they also control the to allow it to operate more efficiently of part load conditions which can lead to large energy savings. They will however result in at for low conditions only operate one to 2% VFDs can also be fitted to and allow the pumps to to better match the cooling demand, typically using a pressure Rated load amps or RLA. RLA refers to the maximum amps drawn by the compressors The RLA will vary the compressor has to do. If the RLA is exceeded can overheat and destroy itself. There are safety features built to measure and prevent For example, a 1,272 kilowatt water cooled chiller but the chiller will cut if it reaches 455 amps. This limit and value will vary between chillers and manufacturer. Load, load refers to the Full load means that at its maximum cooling capability but this is only for around one to 2% of the year, typically. Part load means the chiller than its maximum capability. This is normal for most of the year in a typical application. Low load means that the at very low capacity. Faults can often occur at these conditions and chillers typically do at these conditions. If a chiller is operating at throughout the year then and alternative options to replace it. This will save energy as The cooling load is refrigeration tons or kilowatts. Cooling demand, when the from the chillers evaporator, to collect unwanted heat, it returns back at a higher temperature. The amount of water will determine the cooling demand. For example, a flow rate of with a flow temperature and a return of 12 degrees in the cooling demand or 710 refrigeration tons. Capacity, this refers to how much cooling the chiller is designed to The capacity can be so that it closely matches of the current time. The capacity is usually or refrigeration tons. Relief valves, relief valves and lines are fitted to chillers and operators from a dangerous within the chiller from the refrigerant. It is rare that this scenario This might occur, for instance, Typically, the chiller will which opens automatically is more than the spring pressure. This will allow the refrigerant and the valve will close again once it reaches a lower pressure. Fouling, this refers and organic substances on the which effectively insulates the surfaces and reduces the heat exchangers This is very common in the condenser of a water cooled chiller which permits dirt and bacteria Good water treatment should be implemented to reduce this. Chillers are designed to of fouling under normal but if this is exceeded unable to reach this design capacity. Lift, lift refers to the between the refrigerant in the condenser and the refrigerant in the evaporator. The higher the difference, is having to do in order to achieve this. The chilled and condenser and the approach temperatures Reducing the condenser water setpoint and increasing the chilled water setpoint will reduce the energy Approach temperature, this refers to the temperature difference between the chilled as it exits the chiller of the refrigerant within the evaporator. For example, the chilled might be seven degrees Celsius and the refrigerant might or 37.4 degrees Fahrenheit. The approach would therefore or 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit. A difference of three or five to eight degrees Setpoint or active chilled water setpoint. Setpoints within the chiller refers to a desired temperature or pressure, although, this usually has a focus on the chilled water supply temperature. The desired temperature is and the chiller tries to A temperature sensor at or outlet of the evaporator will and the chiller's controls to meet this or operate as Chilled water pump and These are pumps which and condenser water around the building between the chiller, the cooling coils as well as the cooling tower. They can be either depending on the design of the system. Variable flow is increasingly popular in secondary science significant reduction in Flow rate, this is referring passing through the chiller of the distribution pipe work. It is a measurement of For example, a gallon per or a cubic meter per second. Mass flow rate, this is flowing through a chiller, in the distribution pipe work. It is a measurement of For example, pounds per minute Flow meter, a flow meter or chilled water systems to and from each chiller through the de-coupler as well as ensure efficient operation. It is also used to signal a second chiller to start or stop. These are often clamp-on meters to calculate the flow rate. Chiller tripped, this turning off by itself due to a detected default of a design setpoint. For example, a high or low The chiller therefore turns itself off to protect itself from damage. Coils, coils refer to a heat exchanger. There are a few coils in a A cooling coil would mean a heat exchanger in an air handling unit or a fan coil unit which receives the chilled water and exchanges its coolth into the air. A condenser coil would of an air cooled chiller which receives a hot high pressure refrigerant to condense this into a liquid. Delta T, this refers to between the flow and return temperatures of either the chilled or condenser water. A typical temperature difference between the chilled water flow and return would be six degrees A high Delta T means the and the efficiency should also be high whereas a low Delta T is likely operating inefficiently and there is likely design issues with the cooling system causing this. Superheat, this refers a that the refrigerant is at a particular pressure. A reading of four to eight If the reading is higher is not operating efficiently and if it is low or zero and it's possible that liquid refrigerant can reach the compressor which Sub-cooling, this refers to a refrigerant which has been condensed lower than its boiling point so it is therefore in a liquid state. It is difference in the and the actual temperature Expansion valve or device, this is a device used and the evaporator. These cause a pressure as well as controlling entering the evaporator which is used to control their superheat. There are many different Some examples of chiller are orifice plate, float valves, thermal expansion valves, as well as pilot operated Chilled water reset, this used to save energy. The strategy raises the chilled to reduce the lift which will reduce the amount of work done by the compressor. This will also result in a which can lead to increased pump speeds in variable speed systems. It can also lead to low Delta T syndrome and needs to be carefully Lead and lag or duty and standby, the lead or duty refers which is designated to and handle the cooling utilizes multiple chillers A lag or standby it refers which will turn on if the lead or duty is either unable to handle the full load or if the lead/duty due to a fault. The lag/standby will either or it will take over The designation of will usually rotate to of all the equipment or according to the most efficient equipment running at the current Low profile, this is the plotted onto a chart, usually by hour, covering The 24 hours can be or it can be averaged for example, by seasonal over a specific year perhaps This is very useful for and can allow for better energy efficiency and energy forecasting. Package chiller, this refers to a chiller which comes from the manufacturer with all the major in one package. This is the most common type of chiller. They can include water Chiller economizer, an economizer is used in some centrifugal type chillers to reduce energy consumption. The design is fairly simple between the condenser and the evaporator. The refrigerant is partly and any refrigerant which to the second stage of the compressor. The rest of the refrigerant will continue to the evaporator. This reduces the work and thus saves energy. Primary and secondary, this used for chilled water systems. It refers to the chillers being placed into one pipe work loop being placed into another second loop. Both are connected but The pumps on the primary are typically constant speed and the pumps on the secondary side are typically variable speed. The chilled water is and the cooling load pulls on the secondary side to meet Decoupler, this is common in It is a pipe place at the end of a set of parallel connected chillers the primary and secondary sides and allows the secondary The chillers on the primary a minimum flow rate to prevent damage. The decoupler allows chilled to flow in either direction and secondary loop pumps. The flow rate through the whether a second chiller Free cooling, this refers to which rejects heat without of the compressor. This strategy can only be used in certain ambient conditions. It can be enabled when the is below the setpoint temperature. Some chillers have this function built-in, others can be retrofitted or to accommodate this. That about wraps things I want to thank Danfoss one last time for sponsoring this video. Don't forget to check out the wide range of chiller solutions over Okay, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope this has helped If so, then please don't forget and check us out on and of course theengineeringmindset.com. Once again, thanks for watching.