The demigods are, each and all, the direct There was Godwyn, Margott, Mohg, Radahn Rykard, Ranni, Miquella and Malenia, Blade of Miquella. Malenia. Blade of Miquella. Blade of Miquella. and Malenia. Not again. All of these demigods had fallen from But in this video, I want to mostly talk who these demigods were before the fall. And some of these demigods before he became this unsightly mess, Godwyn The Golden was quite He was born of the promising union and he achieved great renown at least. The war of the ancient dragons. This war began dragon, rained calamity down the only time in historical record It's not clear but fortifying themselves The Knights of the Erdtree weathered However, this was only the beginning and a bitter war During this war, the Erdtree Sentinels had an epiphany the Erdtree was to become dragons And so, despoiling the corpses of their foes, the But fought with the claws of the enemy In the end, In a graveyard of swords The end of the war is commemorated. we learned that during battle, Godwyn, Fortissax, However, he did not kill Fortissax. Instead, he befriended him. And it was in this act dragons truly became a part of After all, only those loved by dragons can survive the ordeal So from an unlikely friendship, an ancient Dragon cult was born in the capital city, learned to worship the dragons sister of Fortissax even took human form It was officially decided dragons did not conflict And it was all thanks to Godwyn, lightning But now let's talk about Morgott and Mohg, The Omen twins who were also born of First, what is an omen? Well, to put it simply, seen as impure as they are When this happens, the correct thing to cut off the horns of the Omen, an act Pretty messed up, but some omen do survive this process and some specifically for them Although these weapons are bestowed we find one such omen in an Erdtree camp Before you fight it, you might have noticed another omen It said that omens And I think this omen is dreaming. Haunted by the vengeful spirits of It's This brings us to the Omen killers, who are horrifying They wear these horned masks nightmares. And these butchers hunt the Omen The first Omen Killer was named Rollo, a famous perfumer to rid himself of emotion Remember, it seems many omen have their That's definitely disturbing enough in my book. However, if the Omen is born of royalty, But the Omen is kept underground, unbeknownst to anyone By way of example. You would have seen all kinds of omen But why are Omen considered Some of them are clearly intelligent. So what's inherently wrong with being born Well, it's important to remember, might only really exist After all, those afflicted with Omen to the Erdtree for rebirth and are said But why does the Golden Order Well, it's hard to say for sure, to do with the crucible. According to this ancient incantation, horns were once an aspect of the Erdtree's primordial crucible, And with the exception of a couple of We know that the Golden Order from most things While things like horns, knots, grew on the human body and were considered now they are disdained as impurities, We learned this from the knot, scale all of which are gaurded by omen Unfortunately for the order of the seem to crop up in some births, Almost like it's a genetic trait, as if it touches upon the crucible And so you have to ask, is it really Well, as with most curses in these games, In any case, and thus they were born into a wretched Here they were kept under Each of them were bound with charmed or thorns and bathed in golden magic. It seems very few people were supposed Morgott, for his part, renounced But his brother Mohg, embraced it. Deep underground, Mohg stood before mother who craves wounds. A being capable In this moment, Mohg's accursed blood with the defilement that he was born He would go on to build a dynasty of blood something it seems he never truly had. As for Morgott, he was born into the But despite not being blessed with grace, and even took it upon himself and become the Erdtree's protector In the end, he rightfully became the Omen He was, after all, born of Godfrey Of course, the marriage between Godfrey And before long, a champion named Radagon, He became the second Elden Lord but he also brought with him that he had had with a Carian These children were Ranni, Rykard Stepchildren with Queen Marika. Possessed of his father's flaming Radahn was fond of its heroic implications to be born of a great champion. Yet he also looked up Lord, Queen Marika's first husband, But Radahn wasn't just the son of Radagon He was also the son of Rennala, of Raya Lucaria and Queen of Caria. So as a Carian royal inclined towards his will towards mastering well. collapsing stars. These techniques were taught to him all so he would never have to That said, before long, cosmic purpose than simply Radahn was taught gravitational magic a member of a race of ancients who was said to have risen to life and when his lessons were complete, Radahn uttered these chilling words For now, I can challenge the stars.&quot; And of course, he did conquer the stars would be halted by his strength. But of course, you kind of Why was it necessary Well, I have a couple of theories. Theory After all, according to the sword What's more, gravitational magic has destructive power are proof of that destructive power. A being named Between in the past and destroyed What's more, positioned So there is an argument to be made purely defending Sellia But it's possible for Radahn and to have made the first move as well. So this is theory two, as a preventative measure According to a set of astrologer items, The night sky cradles fate. There's even a banished who live deep below of the coming Age of Stars Long ago, these people invoked So it would make sense will might have sought to arrest the stars What's more, and he seems to have more loyalty Finally, the telescope item once writ in the night skies So surely this is referencing Radahn's actions and it levels But putting Radahn's motivations aside, and that this had great consequences especially for the rest of his Carian [Iji] Let me explain. The fate of the Carian the stars, as is the fate of Lady Ranni. First heir in the Carian royal line. But General Radahn is the conqueror of the stars who stood up to the swirling halting their movement And so if General Radahn would once again resume their movement, as would lady Ranni's destiny. [Vaati] Lunar Princess Ranni was the daughter of Radagon and Rennala, and sister Interestingly, if you look at her true it looks like she might have Cool detail. But unlike her brother Radahn, she quite Who was Rennala, The House of Caria one that seems to go way back We find one of their treasures, It reads, Astrologists established themselves in mountaintops and considered the fire Rennala herself was an astrologer, Then she met the full moon, and in time, the astrologer became a queen, as royalty. Caria appears with multiple princesses and Carian Now, however, there is only one Princess and at the time of her birth, to inherit quite a lot of power Indeed, for the Carian and her mother was not only queen, of Raya Lucaria having Bewitched them with leading the young Ranni by the hand, Rennala guided her daughter What Rani beheld was cold, dark A dark moon, a sort of twin to Rennala's own full moon. You can even see if you stargaze from the heights Another who guided Ranni was a character who the young Ranni encountered When you look at Ranni, it's witch that you're seeing as the doll Ranni's soul was modeled after her, Clearly, She became Ranni's secret mentor, Teaching the young Ranni to fear it So what do these moons represent? Now it's just a theory. But I think the moons kind of act Nokstella, for example, What's more, Ranni and Rennala were Rennala's moon bewitched academy Dark Moon, for its part, a voyage in the Age of Stars ending. They could even be outer gods. And yet, for all of this guidance Caria as a whole have experienced Radagon betrayed the house of the moon. Radahn locked the stars out of motion. The academy town is flooded to the North. Caria has been ruined in the West, have gone their separate ways. Nevertheless, Ranni, remains Sibling to Ranni and Radahn was a man named Rykard, There is evidence that Rykard He conspired with his sister Ranni later on, hung in the Volcano manor, of Rykard himself before the fall. Item descriptions mark Rykard as stern, ambitious, heroic and blasphemous. was opposing the Erdtree, to his banner for Rykard just as the gods did, and clearly many The Armor set of the Gelmir Knights reveals to us The crest of red feathers as Lord Radagon's son, piece represents However, as Rykard delved of Mount Gelmir, an ancient deity And so Rykard fed himself so that he might devour, grow, this was too much for his knights, heroic ambitions So they searched desperately for a weapon And they found it too. The immortal Serpent and so there was also a weapon to kill it A Serpent Hunter. But it was too late so too did the Knights lose their master. Not that it bothered Rykard. a god, together&quot; Next we need to discuss Malenia, And Miquella. These two were twins as they were born (TOGETHAAAA) Anyway, as you know, Radagon's Afterwards, he returned to the Golden But what I haven't yet mentioned with two demigod children, Now, in the last lore video, were born after the shattering, had merged together However, I've since changed my mind. I think Malenia and Miquella There's just so much proof that were influencing the world Anyway, specifically in the Japanese text, It said Miquella was born and Malenia, for her Interestingly, Malenia's Scarlet Eot is actually an outer god. This outer god Like many others in the game, to be imposed And Malenia was that vessel. And while the Scarlet Rot you can sort of argue According to Gowry, It's a cycle of death and rebirth, which is a flower that blooms I actually have art of this flower I always loved the symbol of it. I actually have lots of art about all of this artwork Anyway, so Malenia to, and afflicted by, the Scarlet Rot. There was said to be no cure to this. And while fire and consecration at warding it off, millennia would slowly Interestingly, old legends of the scarlet for generations, and we learn more about The dancer in blue represents bestowed a flowing sword The swordsman sealed away Specifically, this god was long ago that is downstream And wherever rot appears, These are pests and servants of the rot. And now, in the current age, these are servants who is their new goddess. So this blind swordsman actually So technically, it's him that The prosthesis wearer A talisman Though born into the accursed rot, mentor and his flowing blade, Malenia's ridiculous attack And aesthetically, would counter the effects of rot, Stagnation turns to decay. Thus, warriors must remain ever drifting, and indeed, There's a lot of evidence but through sheer will and sense of self, And only when she is truly this will and bloom into the goddess Malenia's first bloom and releasing her that would forever Radahn. So whatever she was fighting for Somehow it was worth this terrible act. In general terms, at least, it's clear for her brother. Apart from the times where she relapses she is known as the blade of Miquella. She actually goes to great lengths I don't know if you heard. Despite being the toughest Boss in she's actually fighting for his right In Malenia's own words, her brother possesses the wisdom, the allure of a god. He is the most fearsome Empyrean of all. For his part, Miquella not the least of which and a prosthetic of unalloyed gold. And it's not just his sister Many people did. The bewitching to turn enemies into temporary allies. And it reads &quot;Indeed, he has learned very well how Radagon, a fundamentalist incantation Radagon and incantation These interactions with his father And yet, the young Miquella for it could do nothing to treat This was the beginning of unalloyed gold. So what is unalloyed gold? Well, an alloy is a composition of metals, gold is pure gold, This gold apparently can ward away And so Miquella bent a lot of his efforts towards Specifically, this needle was crafted for and forestall the effects of the incurable We see the bond When we visit Miquella's Haligtree, we see a statue of a one armed woman Miquella. In this place, we see the biggest example and the society that was built This was a promised land, seen or persecuted, provided of course. and like many other had the will within them And his is an order that's somewhat The biggest thing is that the Haligtree but the difference is that Miquella's of all, even those the Erdtree shuns. Miquella himself was once and he watered it with his very own blood Tragically, during the shattering, to grow into an Erdtree, But that's the story for another day. There's also a ton of cut content and he's one of the most mysterious demigods But there is one more thing It's kind of one theory So Miquella and Malenia Malenia's is the Aeonian Butterfly, and a rumored to come from the wings And I think it's fair to say that Miquella's which appears as if it's just emerged from its cocoon for its entire life. This is a reference to Miqurlla's eternal But there is, of course, There's the smoldering butterfly. It's said to be an eternally burning Now, bear with me. But it's my theory that this butterfly of caling calls, the kindling maiden, This might suggest that Melina Again, that's just a theory. But what I really want to talk about here Melina is almost certainly We learned this a long time ago from and we can further infer it that refer to mothers and one that says So her being the daughter of Marika But this one is much more concrete Although the reason I like the butterfly is that it gives us a hint as to who Her parents would have been Radagon Marika herself alone, Honestly, Melina, as a character, since the game was released. And I'm really only scratching the surface But speaking of times a long time ago, I commissioned this piece And now I'm so excited to reveal it This storybook scene is heavily we had at Elden Ring with a red haired Spirit companions, a mount that looks and a few other hidden details This piece and all of my other prints where you can actually buy them They actually ship with a beautiful frame. The frame itself is a nice black satin and you can even opt for a white border which I think looks really classy I think these posters are a cool way and for you to actually get something in return So check out my prints But this is the end. I'll see you next time. Captioned by in2thevoyde