I'm entering the global headquarters in the world. But you probably wouldn't know that because hiding in plain sight And from the shadows, they've been doing the dirty work for basically every brand Like 450 of the Fortune 500 companies. I'm talking big soda, big tobacco, They've been called the single greatest of anyone, They also work for the Saudi, Chinese and on whatever the hell this is. 9 million residents So who are they? McKinsey is now accused of helping unquote, turbo Behind President Vladimir Putin's until recently, You worked for a company No, I worked for a consulting company that may have been involved in fixing, Today we're talking about McKinsey, consulting firm at the heart of nearly McKinsey claims to operate on a &quot;no policy policy&quot; But we tracked their history and it places the consulting industry in the war on working people. So what do consultants even do? Okay, but what do they actually do? When I first applied I really had no idea what a BA does. The amazing thing is that what we do Communicate, present, model, plan, Be ambitious and find ways we can No, but what do they actually actually do? I had to ask some experts Well, in an ideal world, consultants add their brainpower to any company. That was Mike Forsythe, a New York Times journalist They come in as outsiders, and give good advice. Consultants claim to help organizations solve problems to solve themselves. This is Garrison Lovely, a former McKinsey employee Whether that's entering a new market, reducing costs, helping government That's the idealized version. In the non the advice they give is bad advice, or the client they're working So where did this lucrative problem McKinsey was founded right after a period of historic 1800 companies were crunched into just 157 megacorporations, U.S. Steel, Nabisco, You might also remember So in 1933, the government which stopped banks from speculation, with the money But, it was basically preventing businesses from sharing information with each other and so they couldn't standardize practices Consultants were a way to get around this and figure out what they're doing for a bunch of different companies these companies behave in more or less In 1951, General Motors the first ever study The project was led by this guy, He noticed that laborers after World their wages were rising and went to companies and said, &quot;Hey, are actually getting raises and they were shocked by this.&quot; And this pioneered the field of executive compensation The average CEO was paid about 20 times Now average is hit between 2 and 300, Thanks, McKinsey! They're management consultants. They've been working with management. There is no equivalent of McKinsey for labor. When it comes to labor, they've got one M.O -- layoffs. If they're not laying people off, and recommendations A very common thing is a CEO wants to enter a new market or lay off a bunch of people or close down McKinsey will do a bunch of analysis with all these clever seeming reasons And this is a way for the CEO or whoever else hired McKinsey In 2005, associate was roughly $17,500. Its employee costs were going up them, were staying they didn't see a really big boost So McKinsey came on board to help reduce health care expenses And one of the findings part-time workers because they don't have McKinsey also recommended that Walmart in profit sharing and 401k programs, life insurance coverage, and move employees Walmart wasn't the only client In the 1990s, McKinsey and one of the areas they looked at And mind you, you have to keep in mind record. At that time, Disneyland They made the rounds all day, tightening screws and bolts as needed, and checking So the idea again, cut maintenance costs, crew to mostly work The ride mechanics sent Disney McKinsey asked him coaster were inspected daily He replied &quot;The reason they don't fail It's like a pilot saying, Let's just skip the preflight.' &quot; Disney never responded to his complaints Not long after this, after falling out of a ride He never walked or talked again Another serious accident occurred when It's just extremely dangerous. You need to have very well-trained people Apparently the wood in the dock was rotted just shot out one person and injuring somebody else. And another person was killed Mountain Roller coaster. The cited causes of all of these accidents This is not the Disney and they all happened But did McKinsey face McKinsey escapes accountability in a way It's all about secrecy with them. Our advice is to you, If you guys do great, wonderful. You take all the credit. If you screw up and things go bad, It's not us. If the project fails, and your decision ends up being bad, it's like, well, clearly you hired the best consulting firm, There's this symbiotic relationship When something goes wrong, and all the client did was follow them. It's a way to cover your ass, which is a very common expression This system is great for short-term but not so great So what happens when you apply to the industries That's when things start to get even Health care is pretty much McKinsey's Bread prices. Hospitals, for sure. Insurance companies. Managed care companies. Pharmaceutical companies. Top five McKinsey Johnson and Johnson and the big managed care Aetna, Blue Cross Blue Shield. Let me say that again. McKinsey's biggest money and it's also where they've done In 2018, McKinsey was contracted Medical to design a program to get more Providence Hospital is They're required to provide and they were looking And they turned to McKinsey to find a way to convince poor people to pay bills, even if in many cases they actually McKinsey literally wrote a script for Staff were not allowed to take no for an answer and were told to take If they didn't pay, if they didn't they would refer to a third party debt It would destroy these people's And now Providence is being sued not being held accountable legally, And while they're working for private for the government agencies Two more McKinsey clients were Philip McKinsey was also working at the same time they had these clients. that said that actually the people the FDA did not know that McKinsey And this is the same with Juul. This is when the FDA was cracking down on these And most infamously, they're working for Conflicts of interest They're like business class mercenaries. They'll fight for any and sometimes even ones that don't. In 1997, the state of Illinois They needed help, and McKinsey generously One of the tricks McKinsey does, they will And this is often a way Once their foot was in the door, by some of the same state officials to help, this time And this time, it wouldn't be for free. Around the same time, It was found that they were in services, while sending It was also found that under McKinsey's $63 billion to seven private insurers, four of whom were also McKinsey clients. this taxpayer money was spent with less Like a vampire, McKinsey got themselves and now they were sucking Illinois dry. They're on all sides of the food chain in the health care industry, On their own website right Illinois should be improved So cool that the solution to these problems they have actively helped It's like if someone came over and used all your dishes according to my research, This is a done man. Once they sink their teeth they stay for as long as they can. They make sure these agencies don't You just end up relying on these people what a civil servant will be paid and aren't really accountable And may just come through for a few months at a time And so you don't build up this expertise to to do things that states need to do. They do all this while hiding the decisions. This guy, Richard Elder, was like, Look, We just do execution. We're not here to make choices All the values having an obligation to dissent. But that doesn't mean But that doesn't mean Just means you're not going to get fired A former McKinsey employee told Michael to wedge yourself in Once in you should spread yourself In other words, act like "a Trojan horse." He was talking about their clients, amoeba has wedged its way So what should we do about it? Well, the DOJ is investigating criminally for the first time, and some politicians have even talked about banning McKinsey But most of these problems If we just banned one consulting firm the others would likely The reality is and Boston Consulting Group and they are offering and they are offering And I don't think that the results Ultimately, we need to on consulting McKinsey Things are set up in such a way cut off the consulting firms, that capacity overnight. Like this is like a kind of and I think that requires, paying people more and creating workplaces that are more appealing as well as like Public-private partnerships and government should actually learn And we've done it before. And we've done it before. And what about the army of young MBA to keep the consulting industry I would tell them that, you know, that you can do work that is exciting with smart people, that pays well. You can have it all. And I would just tell them that I think I'm really much happier than the cohort of people Even though I make, like, And my life and career is like, But you have privilege and you have some kind of opportunity, some extent an obligation to use that And I think you will