It's time to play &quot;Family Feud!&quot; Give it up for Steve Harvey! - Good to see ya today. Thank y'all very much. I appreciate that. Thank y'all everybody. Well, welcome to &quot;Family Feud&quot; everybody! I'm your man, Steve Harvey! And we got a special show It's comedian, actor, &quot;Easter Sunday,&quot; Jo Koy and family. And they're playing for the They are playing against Jo's movie mom, actress Lydia Gaston and family. And they're playin' for - Tapulanga. as I can get, baby. (audience laughs) - I felt in my heart that I had nailed it. (audience laughs) I was completely in. I'm tellin' you right now, I (audience laughs) I could try, but I was committed. (audience laughs) Also, everybody, the new is all about what happens when a big crazy family comes on August 5th. Let's go meet Jo Koy and family! Hey, man. You have my utmost respect, bro. - [Jo] Aw, thank you. - You're a funny dude, man. Let me tell you something, it's one thing to sell out theaters. You have a successful but when you sell out arenas, - Thank you. Man! - Arenas, you're doin' good, You get into arenas, that's your father? - Yep. right there. That's a bad, bad man. (audience cheers) I very rarely get to hang We've never hung out, but I know his work 'cause he's a stand up and he's just a monster, man. He's a bad dude, bad dude. - Man, Steve! - Welcome to the show, bro! I'm honored. I wanted to give you them flowers, dog, 'cause people don't know, man. You gotta check out his Netflix special. I'm tryin' to tell you (audience laughs) How you doin', man? - I'm honored that that you're saying. You're the reason why I do what I do, man. You knocked down all the doors. (audience cheers) I'm just following your You know that and- - And I'm just happy that for comics like us. - Well, man, you a cold cat. I watched your, I mean, look, I know a little bit about the Philippines 'cause actually- by that word you said. - Nailed it. - Better than me. in the Philippines. - Yeah, yes. - Yes, you are. - Started out for the wrong We did Miss Universe in Manila after I announced the wrong name. (audience groans) - Yeah, I gave it to the wrong person. Wasn't my fault really? But, whatever. But they wanted to wait till in the newspaper and I said and gave it to Pia Wurtzbach and she won. So we did Miss Universe when I got there, it was the king then me. I was just like, I had 16 armed guards. I was driving around Hey, Koy, introduce everybody, man. - Ah, thank you. This man right here is my best friend and it's also my sister's husband, Andre. I've known him since We graduated together, so- - Yeah, he's been part of the family and it's just really cool of my family. - Yeah, yeah. Yeah! And then, and this is who That's my right hand, my best I don't trust anybody else. When she's gone, everything just crumbles. I don't even know how to I don't know where my credit card is, when my phone's disconnected. I'm like, &quot;What happened?&quot; - And then I have to call her. Even when she's on vacation, I call her. So that's my best friend right there, Gemma, and then her beautiful, this is their beautiful daughter, AJ. (audience applauds) AKA The Star Athlete. She's played for several and then, of course, she's - Wow. - Yeah! - And, yeah, I love AJ. And then, of course, right You know what? My son. You know what I mean? But he's so talented! - [Steve] Yeah, yeah, yeah. - And I'm just so and share these memories with him 'cause he works with me and he rides- - He does? Yeah, he goes. - I'ma just tell you a little People like him don't do good in college. They don't do good in college. Don't even worry about it. - I put mine in there and I might as well just set - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - He went to college. The Dean was talking to &quot;Mr. Harvey, you should be about college, higher education.&quot; (Steve scoffs) I got a high school diploma. I don't know what you talkin' about. I'ma just take my boy outta school. We gonna go see the world, see what we can make out of it after that. So that's how we did it there. How do you pronounce -- Ajaya? - Ajailon. How old are you? - I am 23. Oh my goodness. Wow. She's gorgeous. My God! - Thank you. that's the one I was telling you about that really don't do college, and I heard you mention and all of that. Gonna be a little drop off there. That's good though. Welcome to the show. Gemma, you run his career, his life? - Yes. Dre, what do you do, man? - I am a high school basketball coach. - Oh man! Come on, man! Only other gig in the world I would want if I wasn't doing this. - That's the only, I was a junior high I've never forgot that. - Yeah, junior high is different. - Yeah, yeah. But I could do high - Yeah! - I thought it was really cool when he started coaching for AJ. I thought that was a cool the daughter before she - Yeah! - Yeah. - She also plays basketball. - Yeah, of course, did you hear Gemma? She's like, &quot;Yeah, he - No, she plays basketball. - Pretty good too, I bet. - Yeah. Hey man, welcome to the Enjoy yourself. Have some fun today and win - Yes. Hey! Let's go meet Lydia Gaston and family! Hello, Lydia, how are you? - Hi, Steve. You forgive me for gettin' the name wrong? - Tapulanga. That's what I said. - I said that. - Karl, you can't say it either? - Oh no. And we've been married, how 25 years? - And I know one thing in Ilonggo. - Don't say it. It's a bad word. - No it isn't. I swear it's not. It's not. (speaks in Ilonggo) - That's what I try to - Yeah. - Well, whenever I learn the language, I wanna learn cussin' first. - Yeah, well- I don't learn it well, - That's right. That's definitely true. (Steve speaks in foreign language) I dunno what that is, but Lydia, how've you been? - I'm good. I'm really excited We had a great time - [Steve] How long did it - Two and a half months. - Almost three months. - Steve, can I say something? I know it's her turn, but to Steven Spielberg. He's the one that produced that pushed this all the way through and- - Wow! for Steve givin' the okay, our Filipino voice and our because it almost didn't that made this happen. - That's when your life to Steven Spielberg as Steve. - [Man] I (indistinct) he did that. - Yep, your life is on a rocket ship! &quot;Yeah, you know, Steve and Well, Lydia, introduce your family. - All right, so this is - I knew it. I knew it, yes. Karl, Karl Greenberg, who's But that's not my real name. I mean, that's- - Yeah, it's not, it's a hyphen. It's a hyphenated name. - Miss Lydia, where are we goin'? - I dunno. Like when the repairman he asks for Mrs. Greenberg, and then he looks at me and he says, &quot;I want Mrs. Greenberg.&quot; And I was like, &quot;I'm Mrs. Greenberg.&quot; So this is Karl Greenberg. - [Steve] Show him your - This is Karl. He works in marketing for - NYU Tandon School of Engineering! And I know it's dangerous 'cause of the Ramblin' Wreck. - [Steve] Yeah. Well, it don't matter. I don't even know what that is. - I don't- - And this is my niece, Nina. She's in high school in Princeton. - High school? She's a junior, right? - A junior in high school and- She's been busy looking at colleges. And this is Nicholas. - Yes. Upstate and- Do you know Nicholas? - I'm just afraid I'm I'm afraid I'm gonna get things wrong. - Oh, okay. No, don't worry about that. We gonna edit it all together. - [Nicholas] I swear I wasn't kidnapped. - He is my nephew. He's in the family. There we go. - [Lydia] My sister's son, I'm kidding. - Wow, wow. - Oh, this is right from the movie. - This lady right here. This what the movie about right here. (audience laughs) - Yeah, we gonna take a good It's startin' look a - Oh my God! - It's so true! - Okay. - [Lydia] And this is She looks different from the rest. So does he. - Whose mother is that? &quot;That's our niece. She looks different. She's the only blonde up here. I know you're wondering Susanna, what do you do? - I'm getting my PhD in - At Yale, at Yale, at Yale. - At Yale? - Oh, okay. Is this your aunt? - Yes, she's my blood aunt. Yes. - That's your aunt? - You're blood related? They're blood related. Nicholas, what do you do? - I study computing But, other than that, I'm usually - Help me out understand When you say applied math, - It's computer science for people that don't like themselves. I'm joking. It's basically- - [Jo] Oh man. - He said, &quot;I'm joking.&quot; I was like. I'm usually pretty good at that. That's a good way to describe it though. So what are you studying, Nina? - I'm still in high school, so- - Everything. - So obviously at this high - What do you think if you, have you thought about - Yeah. I'd really like to be a lawyer. - Really? - Yeah! - Is she your niece? - [Lydia] She is my niece. Yes. - Well, - Thanks, thank you. - This is gonna be way more 'cause of her! Hey, y'all, let's get it on! Give me Jo Koy! Give me Lydia! - Let's go! Let's go! - Top seven answers on Name something shocking your mom announces on the family Zoom call. Jo. - She's preg- She's pregnant. - Hey! Ready? We're gonna play, - Hey, Dre, gimme something on the family Zoom call. - Sick. (audience applauds) - Constipated. - She wants gifts from everyone. - [Steve] She wants gifts from everyone. She wants gifts from everybody. (audience applauds) - Yeah. name something shocking your mom announces on the family Zoom call. - Finances. - Good answer. (buzzer buzzes) (audience groans) - Joseph. - My man, we got two Gaston family can steal. Something shocking your mom announces on the family Zoom call? - Grades? - What? What, what's the question? - Grades, grades? - Grades? (audience laughs) &quot;You gonna bing up these You thought this was a good time?&quot; Brought up the grades! (audience applauds) - Name something shocking on the family Zoom call. - She's divorcing my father. - She's divorcing the father! Number Seven- - Six- - Four? - Three. - Let's go to question two. Gimme Dre! Gimme Karl! (upbeat music) - Thank you. - All right, guys, top Name a traffic sign a at a bar says, &quot;What's your sign?&quot; - Dre. - Stop. - Yeah! - Play, play, play, play! - Hey, Gemma, name a traffic when a jerk at a bar - Yield! - Yeah! - AJ, do you drive? - Okay, this'll be good. Name a traffic sign a at a bar says, &quot;What's your sign?&quot; - Slow down. - Yes, yes! Good answer, good answer! - [Steve] That was a good answer. Joseph? - Yeah. - No. (Joseph laughs) hopefully you lookin' out the window. Name a traffic sign a at a bar says, &quot;What's your sign?&quot; - I'm gonna say, go. - Go. - [Gemma] Good answer; that was good. - What? - That was a good answer. All right, we gotta be careful The Gaston family can steal. Name a traffic sign a at a bar says, &quot;What's your sign?&quot; - Railroad. Railroad. - It's a railroad. - It's a railroad. - You don't wanna, don't I've heard, a lady said I was like, &quot;What's your name?&quot; And she's like, &quot;Train is crossing.&quot; And she walked the other I swear if they would've it would be one point. It would be number six. - Yes, yes! Use that! You know what? Ladies, use that. If someone walks up to you Go &quot;Man, railroad, railroad, railroad.&quot; - Good answer; good answer! It's up there, Steve. (audience laughs) - At least you have low &quot;It's up there, Steve. It's six.&quot; Railroad crossing! - Man! - Lydia, name a traffic sign at a bar says, &quot;What's your sign?&quot; - Curves ahead. - Curves ahead! - Yes! - Number six. (bell rings) - Exit! - Five. - Four? - Two? - Well, Koy family got 79. Gaston family got 43. Remember the goal is 300 points We'll be right back. Welcome back to &quot;Family Feud,&quot; everybody! Koy family 79. Gaston family 43. Give me Gemma. Give me Nina. Ladies, point values are doubled. Top six answers are on the board. Name something from work that for taking home with him. - Gemma. - Important paperwork! (bell rings) - Yeah. - [Jo] Play, play, play, play! - We're gonna play, Steve! They gonna play. - AJ, name something from in trouble for taking home with him. - A hose. (audience applauds) - Now, Joseph, come on, man. - I got this. - [Steve] I got a feeling - Me too. up against the wall, baby! - Joseph, name something from in trouble for taking home with him. - I'm gonna say the fire trucks. (audience cheers) You cannot take the - Number one! - Name something from work in trouble for taking home with him. - The boots. (audience applauds) The boots. - Yes! - Dre, name something from in trouble for taking home with him. - The ladder, Steve. - The ladder! - Yeah! - What? - Well, see, folks. Let me This is game of luck and guesses. You can actually give a be on the board. Ladder should have been up there, but the hundred people &quot;What the hell I need to carry a ladder? I got a ladder at the house already.&quot; Gemma, name something from in trouble for takin' home with him. - Oh man, the mascot. - I love that. - At (indistinct). - My wife, man. My wife. I'm a defender. - Dre says, &quot;It's my wife, man. (Gemma laughs) - I'm ridin' with her. - Hey, Gemma- - Just for me. I haven't been in the on the field trip in school. I don't know what I missed. What mascot did they have? - They have dalmatians - Oh! - Yeah? - Oh! - I was looking for a dummy you know like at the game. Keep the stress level down, have a pet. - Okay. You just gonna She goes, &quot;Reduce the stress level. Take the dalmatian home AJ, we got two strikes - You got this, AJ. Gimme something from work a for taking home with them. - A co-worker. - Yeah, good answer! (buzzer buzzes) (audience cheers) a better answer. - Name something from work in trouble for taking home with him. - An ax. - Six! - Gaston family 201. Koy family got 79. Folks, it's still One of you gonna win it when - All right, let's go! All right, guys. Here we go. Point values are tripled. We asked 100 women. Name a sport to grab the players' buns. Nicholas. - Football! Pass or play? That's okay. Just go ahead. Get you ass- - We asked 100 women. be fun to grab the players' buns. - Baseball. - Lydia! - We ask 100 women. Name to grab the players' buns? - Wrestling. - Hey Karl- - Only one strike. Talked to 100 women. be fun to grab the players' buns. - Base, uh, soccer, soccer. - Soccer! - Not that I would do it. (bell rings) - One answer left. Nina, if it's there darling, If it's not there, you're We asked 100 women. be fun to grab the players' buns. - Basketball. - Basketball for the win! Appreciate it. We gonna make a donation You're a bad man, boy. - No, for real. - Thank you, Steve. - Hey, I need two of I got Nina. I got Nicholas. Get your ass over here, man! Did I ask you to come over here? Thanks for playin'! We gonna make a donation for being good sports. We'll be right back. Welcome back to the &quot;Feud,&quot; everybody! The Gaston family won the game! And now it's time to play- - [Audience] Fast Money! - All right, now, Nina, I'm gonna ask you five If you can't think of If you and Nicholas together look right there, tell 'em - $20,000 for the Friends of Tapulanga. - All right, you ready? - All right, 20 seconds We asked 100 men. How often - Every day. the most often at the supermarket? - Milk. with them to the laundromat. - [Steve] Name an instrument you associate with country music. - Guitar. from one hole to the - Walk. - That's good. Yeah, you can turn all the We asked 100 men. How often You said every day. Survey said. Name something you buy the You said you buy milk. Survey said. Name something people take You said detergent. Survey said. Name an instrument you You said le guitar. Survey said. (bell rings) Name a way to get from one hole to You said walk. Survey said. Nicholas, you're into applied math. So let me ask you a question. Nicholas, how many points - Hopefully 200. - I got ready to push Okay, well, she didn't get 200 or else you wouldn't have Give me your best guess. - 150. She got 170. That is an outstanding score! We need 30 points to win the money, you focus and we gonna win a lot of money for your charity, okay? All right, I'm gonna ask You cannot duplicate the answers. If you do, you're gonna hear this sound. (buzzer buzzes) I'm gonna say try again. It's gonna be a little so we're gonna give you 25 seconds. You ready? - All right, let's remind (electronic beep) 25 seconds on the clock, please. (bell rings) How often do you call your mother? - Once a month. - [Steve] Name something at the supermarket. - [Steve] Name something to the laundromat. - [Steve] Name an instrument you associate with country music. - Try again. - [Steve] Name a way to get from one hole to the next on the golf course. (buzzer buzzes) Didn't you hear me? Name a way to gift from on the golf course. - Walking. - Try again. - All right, here we We asked 100 men. How often You said. Damn. - That's not me. That's not me. - Well, who the hell you - The 100 men. and your ass is a man and you sitting up here Call your mama some more! Once a month, you go, That's 11 people going to hell. Number one answer was once a week. 20 points, name something you buy the most of at the supermarket. You said. (scoffs) Jesus. - That's what I buy a lot. - Oh now it's about you now? - You're right. You're right. You're right. a minute ago about them men. Now all of a sudden you gonna Bananas! Survey said. - I can't believe- 19 people said bananas! There is- - There is no way! We have got to have, this boy got to be rigged for celebrities. There's no way in hell Who the hell go there and All them grapes sitting over there and you'd have bought You are one point away. I don't know what you said. Number one answer was milk, by Name something people take You said. What, what did he say? (electronic beep) A bin? (Nicholas sighs) - Yeah. Survey said. Detergent, detergent was number one. Guitar was number one and Well that's $20,000 for the- Tapulanga! I'd like to thank Jo and for coming on and hanging out with us right here on &quot;Family Feud.&quot; Hey, listen, don't forget to go see the new film &quot;Easter Sunday.&quot; It's in theaters August 5th. We'll see you next time.