The grass beside the ancient road outside the pavilion is green and the sky is full of wind. The evening wind is blowing and the sound of willow flutes is lingering. The sunset is outside the mountain. How long is it ? Five minutes. It's okay. It's awesome. It's ironic. Can Yi Xiao stay under the water all day? Irony, your sister is in the water. I can breathe . How can this compare? I can do it better than Yi Xiao. Why can't I be Brother Jiang and be my boyfriend? It's so boring to watch over an old woman all day long. Who is this old woman ? Touch my things. The eldest sister is nice and won't steal your boyfriend. I'm sarcastic. She didn't move. What I'm talking about is this eldest sister. You bought a box of gold soup and big diamond rings and you still care about this. I've found the gold soup hole and I'll come with you. Be obedient and good. Stay in the car and be careful. The water monkey will turn you into the river . The sea contains hundreds of rivers . The water contains thousands of gold. The Lancang River. Yijia water is easy to use . How can I marry you if I don't earn enough betrothal gifts? Don't let me get lost. Listen to your sister, I'll leave the flute and ask you when you're going . I'll be sure to sing a song this time. When I come, I'll be at the end of the world . The corner of the friend is half scattered, the pot is full, the wine is over, the rest of the fun is over, don't dream cold tonight, it's easy to die soon , 025, the sea is full of rivers, the water is rich, the water of the Lancang River is easy to open the golden soup, have you finally made it in? Hey , I've been thinking about a question, what question? Why can't even the Jintang acupoint block your harassment signal ? Our water communication system is at the deep-sea level. Is the environment big or grand? We agreed with Yi Laoxie that I will hide the secret of Jintang from you. You gave me the whole process of oral broadcasting. The liar , the heartless, the heartless man found it and calmed down. Tell me how many heads the Naga statue behind the coffin has, nine heads and nine heads. The nine-headed Naga is a symbol of the royal family. This is the tomb of the Khmer king. I'm sorry, I'm looking for death. You boss is so skinny. The tender meat can really run. Your name is Zong Hang, right? Since your surname is not Jiang, the things on your body don't belong to you. Hand it over . How much money do you want? My dad doesn't care. But this is our family's ancestral handover . Thank you, it's fake. Don't move and fish it up for me . There is no gap between the lid and the coffin body. This is a jade white and purple coffin with excellent sealing properties that can protect the body in the coffin from decay for thousands of years. When opening the coffin, the ancestral tablet must be embedded in the center of the coffin lid . The body will quickly frost to release the pressure, and the surrounding pool water will also freeze and become trapped. What's wrong? Is there really a mechanism ? Can you pick out the key points first next time? Can you listen to me next time? Back then, the Khmer royal family came to your Yi family. Use the golden soup cave to build a water tomb to offer water burial. Now it's better that you dug up the employer's tomb. 888888888 The employer who stole the water is still a thief. Hong Rui Jingshui compiled the secret book of the three surnames of Shui that has been lost for thousands of years. Since Yu the Great ruled the hundreds of rivers in China, Xingluo, a secret place in the water. It is said that the golden soup is difficult for the world to find. Only water can be entered and exited freely with the ancestral sign . The ancestral source golden soup is the origin of the three surnames and the source of the three rivers. It is dangerous to enter and die alone. What's wrong with the pot? How is it possible to feed the Lancang River Yi family? Come at me? The Ding family in the Yellow River is not guilty of making friends. Try the water kou from the Yi family. It's such a coincidence that we haven't seen each other for a long time . Yi has been close to each other since we haven't seen each other for eighteen years. The three surnames are all members of the same family. If you have something to say , go back and tell Uncle Changsheng that the Jiang family's ancestral brand is on the Lancang River. The ones found should be kept by my Yi family. It's not easy for me to explain. The three surnames are all members of the same family. We have something to say. Yi Laoxie, I really believe you. You finally answered the phone. You scared me to death. Ding Yudie will fly over now. What's up? You're about to die. I've found Jiang Jiazu's brand. Oh oh oh. I'm booking a flight now. Hurry up . Yi Laoxie , ghost brother , calm down, ghost brother , Yudie. I'm flying to you, ghost brother. Hello, ghost brother. Do you want to take your hand? The little white in there is the wife of a black ghost. If you dare to throw it away, it will definitely ruin your beauty. You are ruining my face now. How can the towel for wiping my body touch my face? How can a girl be so unrefined? What woman? Can you be as exquisite as you? The record holder of the new generation of the Yellow River Ding family's water boiling golden soup. At the age of sixteen, he vowed to fly all over this colorful world to live up to this life. So many wines and so many wonderful things , right? Ding Yudian, Ding Yudie, don't call me by my original name. I'm really I've had enough. Even the iron-headed dragon kings of the Yellow River have fought here. Yi Laoxie, your luggage has been stolen from this wretched place. I tell you , if you don't get back those fairy water masks of mine, I will break up with you and I will suffer today. That's enough. Who of you Ding family dares to drain our Lancang River water ? That's Ding Changsheng's extinct family. That's his dog. What does it have to do with me? If your surname is not Ding Xiasi , then you know that Ding Changsheng and I have never dealt with him as his boss . You must be my Shui Jingwei , right? How could I have known that he was sarcastic about me and was your only friend ? Go in. I took a shower before going out. Jiang Jiazu is in there. You really have a heavy taste. Read this and swallow it. Go back and look carefully. I'm going to Iron Man's place. Is it the ancestral brand of the Jiang family? There is still a heartbeat that has been soaked in the water for a long time. The big hole that I had in the morning is all healed now. It's impossible for you and I to practice hard for so many years since we were little. This little white pig stole an ancestral tablet and became it . How can it heal itself ? What the hell is going on? Doesn't it still bleed after self-healing ? I didn't see any nosebleeds just now. Why don't you take a shower here just now ? Pretending to be dead can really self-heal the ancestral brand 's dying golden soup point. I guess these three things caused him to accidentally hit me and become a heretic . Ding Yudie is the best sister in the world. Please give me a number. My mother will definitely collect the money for you. She will never call the police. I am a man. Show me your dog eyes clearly. I can't see. I can't recognize. I will forget. What does the goddess next to you look like? Goddess Yi Qi , when did you become blind? Where did that brand on your body come from? Open your eyes and say, it is passed down from our family. You farted. This is the ancestral brand of the Jiang family in the Yangtze River. If you are not honest, I will fuck you. Really ? I'm not lying to you. Our family was a big salt merchant in Jiangsu and Zhejiang during the Tang Dynasty. The Jiang family's ancestral brand was passed down at that time. It was about that time that the lost time was faced with an eternal mystery. White Pig, I'm going out for a trip. What are you going to do? I'm looking for a shovel for Dingtuo. The water in Yi's house is actually drugged. She has disgraced the three surnames. Go and find the leader of the drug smuggling business in Phnom Penh . Don't get involved . I found an injected syringe on Yi Xi's boat. She was probably infected with poison. This girl doesn't look like someone who is easily addicted. Unless she has an intolerable disease in her body, it would be difficult to find Yi Xi and invite her back. I think it would be difficult. Think of other ways to remember it alive . Oh, by the way, you said that the Jiang family's ancestral tablet was embedded in the body of a young man. Yes, Yi Xi took the ancestral tablet and the body away together. Maybe he took them all with him. Come, brother, all of us are here . Wait, wait , wait . Sit, sit, sit. Sit quickly. Sit quickly. There are too many things at hand , which has delayed everyone's time. It's not in the way. Come on. Come on . Move the chopsticks. Move the chopsticks. Come on . Today. It must be a cliche that all the house chiefs rarely get together. In fact, Chang Sheng has long wanted to give up the position of being in charge to Yudie. But the current priority is still the Qinghai tragedy. The Lancang River Yi family was almost wiped out, and only the child Yi Xi was left alone and helpless. If Yiruo doesn't find out the truth , I'm really sorry for our ancestors of the three surnames. You are the one who's sorry for occupying this position . We, the heads of the Ding family in the Yellow River, have always been top-notch people. If it weren't for the Panjin eldest brother who lost his sight and gave it to you. You, a landlubber who is afraid of water, can you be the boss ? Do you deserve it ? Ding Changsheng , don't think that just because you have earned a few stinky money, you can make a show of yourself. How did you lick it in the first place? Everyone here knows that Ding Wei is presumptuous. Brother Ding Wei said that Changsheng is ashamed. Look. Why don't you wait until Yu Die comes back and I'll have a good talk with him? You see how to walk faster. Kneel down and be honest. Otherwise , your name will be buried. Zong Hang's background. Father Zong Bisheng. Mother Tong Hong. Our family has opened several big hotels in Cambodia. Authentic The only child chews the old rich second generation. Do you know who we are? We are the three surnames of you: the Yellow River , the Ding family, the Changjiang River, the Jiang family , the Lancang River, and the Yi family . Each of the three families controls a water vein. They make a living by helping generals, ministers, princes, and princes to deposit and withdraw property , because the land is hidden. There is always a risk of the treasure being stolen. It is not as foolproof as the underwater Jintang Cave. So you are the Swiss bank under the water. What is the Jintang Cave ? It is an underwater space in the Sanjiang River Basin suitable for hiding treasures. Only water can guide the way in and out of the treasure. The golden soup cave is the lock for treasure hunting. If something happens to Kaijin Tang , it will turn into water. The three surnames are divided into water, grape, shake, water and eight legs according to the weak to strong water properties. The strongest one is that water can breathe directly under water . The physique is far beyond normal. Among them, the Chinese Yellow River Ding As expected, Ding Yudie's skills are what you said. Listen to my explanation. I think this kid Zong Hang is quite interesting after we have been together for a long time. He is fair, clean, stupid and cute. Let's not hurt innocent people with this bluff. That's enough for your little mind. Now that you know it, you don't have to tell you again. I want you to come with me to the Zuyuan Golden Soup. Edited by Hong Rui Jingshui. I saw that the golden soup that our family used to cook did not belong to the Lancang River at all, but to the Quan-Yu period. There is Zuyuan Jintang. What did the Jintang acupoint look like five thousand years ago ? You have to read it to know. It is recorded in the article that Zuyuan Jintang must collect three waters and three ancestral tablets , otherwise you will definitely die. The Yi family's ancestral tablet is in my Jiang family's ancestor. It's not difficult to find your lost card . You can go back to Uncle Changsheng to get it back. As for the water, there are only two of us now, two and a half water. The most difficult thing is underwater breathing. Zong Hang has already mastered it . You can teach him the rest . Aren't you the best in the world, right? Wait a minute. Can he learn it in a stupid way ? It will kill people if he drinks the ancestral gold soup. You have a family mission. I won't give up until I reach the Yellow River, but he is a mortal and I am willing. Because Yi Xie saved my life , it was too obscene, I didn't expect you to have such abilities. Water and water are two completely different worlds. To become water and to be the master of the underwater world, you have to master the six arts of water . water ghost move It's too casual to jump over the river and fly like fish. Don't worry about the details. Listen to the music and look at the jade-colored water ghost moves . It's a unique way of communicating and observing underwater. It's also the basic skill of water. I've carefully formulated a rigorous and scientific training plan. You go back. Just brush up the questions. Pay attention and listen to the water Buddha sitting , which means breathing under water. The Book of Changes says that water is the first of all things in the sky . You can breathe in the amniotic fluid before birth. The water Buddha sitting practice is this return to the original state of return to the ancestors. Of course, it is also Concentration is the most difficult among the six arts. I am really listening. I am imagining . Anyway, you have the Jiang Family Ancestral Card. Skip this section before entering the second class. These four skills are collectively called Shanshui. They talk about how to survive in the underwater world. To become a master of three surnames, Shui , you have to know how to control the water . The two domineering physical skills behind it are the following two. The hand of turning over the river is Shui's internal control method. The so-called war is impermanent, the power is impermanent, and the water is impermanent. When an ordinary person exerts force in the water, his strength is greatly reduced . Water knows that water can transform impermanence into something tangible. Leverage force to push the boat along the current. From the world to the soft, breaking the world to the firm , flying fish will greatly increase the speed of swimming. This technique is divided into two schools: the north and the south. The north school uses itself as a fish, stimulates the flow of water through rotation, and swims like a flying shuttle in our Yellow River. The trend-setters are especially good at it. The northern style is too wasteful. Three times is already the limit. I am exhausted. It's not like our southern style, which relies on black ghosts to pull you around. As long as the wine steward is enough, you can work day and night. Can I learn from the southern style? Can you drink? I can drink beer. You drink three cans first and then talk about it. Then your liver is considered useless. Don't kill me. It has nothing to do with me . I'm here. Boss Dingtuo , do you know this person ? I've never fucked your woman. She has such an imagination. It's none of my business. Is she? I have purchased goods from you. This is veterinary anesthetic sold by Chen Tuzi from Dongle Sap Lake. He said it is veterinary anesthetic. There is a man named Chen Tuzi in Tonle Sap Lake who sells this. He said that Yi Xi was injected with veterinary anesthetic . It can cause death in people. That's right. She already has clues. She can be found in two days. Let us go. What's the situation ? Why is such a local drug smuggler just finished the trial ? How many times have I told you to do things cleanly, otherwise in the future? Ding Wei, who wants to recruit gossips, you died miserably. I'm sorry, godfather . What's your name? Jing Xiu, quit the drug . Boss , I'm here to pay off the debt. What's the matter ? Satire, do you want to go to the toilet? What are you doing? I'm practicing water. Don't you already know how to sit on the Buddha's seat and sit on the water? I want to consolidate the power of water. It's too sudden and too simple. I'm afraid that one day I'll lose it at a glance. Yes, how can there be such a good thing in the world? You like Machi so much. Looking at other people's legs, isn't it? I'm wondering why you have those two words &quot;go die&quot; engraved on the chain on your feet ? Don't all people die? It's normal to die one step at a time. Stopping will be bad. What is this? This is what I gave. The new anti-mosquito anklet you bought seems to attract mosquitoes, so I don't like the color. I have to use the toilet. By the way, can I borrow your mobile phone? There are spare ones in the cabinet. Pick one. Thank you. Hey parents , don't worry, I'm fine . I met a bad guy a few days ago. Thanks to the kind people who rescued me, I originally wanted to go home , but now it seems that the person who saved me is in danger. I want to stay a few more days to see if I can help. Take care of your health. Brother Die, where did he go? Go back and get the Ding family ancestral card. Their family is all crazy and can kill people at every turn. Don't forget that your brother Die is the crazy water in that family. Besides, Uncle Chang Sheng doesn't know what Zuyuan Jintang is. Take care of yourself today. If you pass the fish-breaking test , you will be considered a real swimmer. I am good at breaking fish. Our family loves to eat fish. I have followed my father in the kitchen since I was a child and learned how to break fish. Crocodiles and Siamese crocodiles are not the most ferocious , although their bite force is relatively high. A lion is big but has the strength to open its mouth. If it is tied, it will not die. In addition, the eye is the key point of the crocodile , but you must pay attention to its tail. It will be comminuted and fractured in a matter of minutes . I am a flying fish and I haven't practiced my skills yet. I will go back and consolidate it. Come back to yourself. Didn't you say that you owe me a life after drying the dried fish? You do n't want to repay the favor. I owe a life to Tie Tie , but I don't owe those crocodiles. If I go down, I will be dead. But how can this level become water and how can it be an ancestor? Where is Yuanjintang? I have only been practicing for a month and it has not been ten years yet. I am still sharpening a sword. I am just a nail clipper at most. Why don't we wait any longer ? We can't wait. The reason why you can become water is because the ancestral card contains a An ingredient called water essence, water essence, is a mysterious substance from ancient times that can change genes and allow humans to directly evolve into water . However, impure water essence is very unstable and can cause fatal sequelae. In the early stage, blood vessels swell and burst irregularly, and then the disease becomes more and more serious. The more frequent 05:11 and accompanied by the symptoms of spectrum disorder , in the end the body will emit a putrid smell like the dead because basically all the hematopoietic cells in your body are necrotic. The incubation period of this sequelae varies from person to person , but most of them can't survive it for thirty years . Mutated water will kill people if they are allergic to river food. If you want to be completely cured , you must get pure and complete water essence. This thing is written clearly in Zuyuan Jintang by Hong Ruijingshui . What I showed Ding Yudie is Fake, the Ding family cannot know, so they went to Zuyuan Jintang not for me , but for you and yourself . Don't call me Xiexie. I'm not that familiar with you , and don't give your heart and soul just because I saved you. You have to believe in people. You have to fulfill your own needs. If you want to be water , if you want to survive , go down and I'll help you. Yi Xi Zonghang , you are a kid. Okay , Ding Peng was stuck like a dog-skin plaster when he was a child, and he couldn't shake it off. You weren't like a rabbit when you were a child, and you got into trouble and ran faster than anyone else. The old man asked you to go back. You and I were picked up from a poor family and couldn't make a living. Why are you working so hard for the Ding family if you don't have the future ? I can't help but work hard. I'm sorry. Come on, come on. Liar Zong Hang, " I 'm not a man. Why are you crying? You big liar. What did I lie to you? What did you say? Just for myself. I don't want it." For other people, I will do it for you. I will dig my heart out for you. You are doing this for me. Nonsense. If it weren't for you, who would be a bastard? Isn't it better for me to be a rich second generation? I still have to provoke these things. Crocodile , crocodile, ok, fish , I guess you're broken. You've been the real deal since Ling Tian. Let's go . If you don't leave, Ding's family will wake up. It's unreasonable. You're holding on like this. You're not afraid of falling. It 's okay. It's okay . I'm fine like this. Slow down. My mother said that there are millions of roads that are safe . The first one is irregular driving and accidents . She is sarcastic about what happened to you. Are you here ? Yes , it hurts, but it bites, so bite it, retarded. Two feathers. Imagine the loneliness of three walls. I really didn't mean it. The most charming splendor. Stop and sing a song for you. The warmth of the most beloved, stay together. Dance, I am your golden color, I am your grass fragrance, I am your hope, I am your direction, hello, why did it take so long for my adoptive father to answer the phone? I lost two brothers when I arrested them. You are right about that name. Zong Hang's is not dead but has become a fruit. Ran , bring it back to me quickly. They have escaped temporarily. It's a bit tricky to capture him alive . I will find it. I picked it up by the Yellow River. Do you know why? Because I will definitely be devoted to my adoptive father because you are not Ding. My family is sorry for my adoptive father, I will handle it well and I will definitely not dirty the Ding family's face. Boss, it's okay . Let's go . Save me . It's too miserable. Save me. I ca n't save. I found the Jiang family ancestral card you mentioned. The interesting one is the ancestral card and a When a person with a foreign surname merges, he becomes water , and it is clean, unlike you. I guessed it right. Those of you who have gone down the Zaqu River, including Yi Xi and that Zonghang, all became water because of what they came into contact with. However, This kind of mutation is not perfect. Sooner or later, it will become a nondescript defective product like you . Tell me, is there something hidden under the Zaqu River? Jiang Jun , don't you want to make a perfect water? Tell me , only I can help you water essence. You are saying that there must be Sanjiang water and the ancestral brand of the three families, water essence and gallbladder. Sanjiang water and the three surnames ancestral cards. Sure enough , it is said that the director Yudie is here. He wants to use the ancestral card to call the old man to be smarter. I'm in a hurry. I'm going back now. Aren't you Jiang Jun? Because you have never asked anyone in the past 20 years. Who is your fiancee Yi Xiao ? Zuyuan Yin Yang Wheel Hui Zhong. The third surname is the ancestral brand. Water essence, gallbladder, golden boy and beautiful girl . It's a pity. My breathing quickened and I arrived at Zuyuan Jintang in two days. It was great. I could finally see my Brother Die. They are here. Sister, be obedient and sarcastic . Are you okay ? I want to be quiet for a while . Then I will accompany you. Be obedient and stay in the car. Be careful, the water monkey has lured you into the river . Do you miss your sister? I haven't seen you for twenty years, even a stranger. I will always go back. I miss the most charming splendor of a person. Stop and sing a song for you, the warmth of my most beloved love . Come down and dance. I am your golden color. I am your grass fragrance. I am your hope. I am your direction. Brother Die, he is back. Brother Die, Yi Laoxie, is dragging the little white pig into the water. Why is it not sarcastic? A person wants to be quiet. I didn't do anything , why did you taunt me? I left for two days, just two days . Young people nowadays, Zu Pai, I didn't want it, I didn't want it, why did you come back? Why do you know that you still ask such nonsense ? Yi Laoxie, are you loved? It got carried away. You and I took it out and finally got it together. The old man didn't ask anything . What can he ask? Dingjia's first brand water. Take an ancestral tablet. What dares he ask? It's wrong. It 's too fast. I'm ridiculing you. Why did you break the ancestral tablet ? It's Brother Die. His ancestral brand is invulnerable to water and fire . It's impossible to break his head. His brand of water is really easy to fool . I hate liars the most. It 's been a long time since I've seen Yi 's ability. Uncle Changsheng. You are also too arrogant, smelly old man, how dare you lie to me about my ancestral brand? Ding Yudie, you are Zong Hang, okay, okay, Yi is sarcastic, we Ming people don't tell secrets, you are going to Zhaquhe, right? The tragedy of the Yi family back then is still before my eyes. How can you, the three juniors, be responsible for such a dangerous matter for the three surnames? We, the three surnames , are one family. Okay, with Uncle Changsheng in charge, we can rest easy and win. We can adapt to the situation . Just as many sets as four sets. Hurry up. God is coming. Why are you vomiting? Your mother didn't teach you to protect the environment. What a wonderful place. Why did you kick someone? It's really the ancestral source . Okay , I 've received the equipment . What do you want to watch? Little White Pig . I seem to be in a bad mood today. You go and see her. Brother Gui Gui Gui won't bother you this time. Come back and have good fish and good wine to accompany you, okay ? He Yu, Yellow River, Ding Jia Shui, Ding Jade, Ding Jade , He Yu, Lancang River, Yi Jia Shui, Yi Jiang Jia Shui, Zong Hang Kai Jin Tang to ward off all evils. In order for the truth of the Yi family to come to light, I must descend from the ancestral gold soup. I am lucky enough to be rewarded in this life but not destined to die in the next life. I am still hypocritical . Yi Lao Xie , neither of us owes anything to the other. I, Ding Yudie, can swim all over the great rivers so that I can live my life in vain. Three animals clear the way for me. I am also Yi Xi. It is my great rivers and great rivers that lead the way. I go to the golden soup and keep my distance. I receive three pieces of my ancestors that are scattered across the river. The cards are sarcastic together . What the hell are you doing? Eat people. It's sarcastic . You still want to reverse the food chain . Zonghang, you are seeking death. You clams. They can eat people and explode. Clams are considered river food. No wonder they are allergic. Do n't move. I'll give it to you. Take it out and be patient. I'm so stupid that I can hurt you. It's okay . I'll come here by myself. What's there to be ashamed of? I'll come here by myself. Where are we? Brother Butterfly and the others won't be eaten by clams, right? Then we would have been eaten by clams, right? After eating, they are probably somewhere else. The key now is how do we get out of here? Apart from these smelly clams, we don't see any entrances or exits. Sure enough , we are all dead. Sure enough, the entire cave is made of soil. Are you talking about Dayu? Is that the soil that controls water? You all know that when I was a child, I loved reading the waterproof bag of the illustrated version of the Classic of Mountains and Seas . Be careful. This kind of clam is photophobic. It should be in a dormant state now . It is said that the soil can emit light and can grow by itself. According to modern science, it It's more like a collection of single-celled organisms that can reproduce quickly. I think it's not just this cave. The tentacles we encountered before should also be soil. The soil here is too active. The clams exploded probably because they ate the soil. If they rushed out like this. We will definitely be trapped in the cave wall. So what should we do ? Are we trapped alive? It may not always be the case that one thing descends on another in this world. Dayu used soil to control water. Water is afraid of soil. Why should we be afraid of water? Fire, water, and fire cannot tolerate each other. Give me the rope. I went back and filled my bag with clams. Go quickly. This is simply a shipwreck museum. Why are all the ships sunk here ? I always feel a little nervous here . It's too quiet here. It 's more like a thousand-year-old boatman than a museum. When the Kobe Maru was 4 years old, the Japanese knew that they were about to lose the war and began to make money crazily. They used the two thousand-ton Kobe Maru to smuggle goods to Japan , but it suddenly and mysteriously disappeared on the route. No one has found it for half a century. Hurry up and find it. Go, Yi Laoxie, little white pig , Yi Laoxie, little white pig, Ding Yudie, hurry up and return the ancestral card to me . What can I give you back? I am the water ancestral card. Put it in front of me. You are playing tricks on me. I haven't asked you to settle the account yet, Ding Yu. Die, I've wanted to tell you for a long time . Don't try to make yourself look bad all day long. How can you, a bear like you , have the nerve to be the Ding family's water? There's no way God will reward you with food , unlike your ancestors who rewarded you with a bunch of pigs. Isn't it a shame to have a landlubber who is afraid of water come out of the Ding family in the Yellow River ? Hand over the ancestral card . Ding Changsheng , your gun is pointed at the Ding family. Have you forgotten the rules of the Ding family? Ding Yudie , you are a monster. You are here. Try the gun. They are both named Ding. Don't let your brothers feel cold. Little white pig butterfly brother , I miss you so much. I thought you were dead. Okay, don't throw it away . Oops, where did you two go? I'm worried to death about us. Let's wake up. At that time, we were on a Northern Song Dynasty ship. This ship was really too big. We only found it after hearing the sound. OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK, OK , OK, OK, OK, OK, let's go , where are we going? Uncle Changsheng , this is the Kobe Maru Hikari. The treasure on the ship is enough for the three of us to enjoy for a lifetime. Is it worth it to open the golden soup ? I haven't found what I want. What do you think it is? Have you noticed a problem? Why is there not even a single household in such a large ship tomb ? No residence Hehehe , let 's go in. There's what we want there. The ancestral Yin-Yang wheel and the clock were found. The people here are all from different eras. It's so spectacular. What did you just say ? Xie Yi Laoxie, what did you do to get rich ? Hurry up , Yi Laoxie, what are you running for? They are coming. Boss, don't touch those petrified people. Ding Tuo, go and protect the boss. Why are these petrified people resurrected? They were not dead in the first place but were killed. The soil is stored here to freeze people. That's right. Once the water essence in the soil comes into contact with a living thing, it will absorb the genes , activate the stored human body, and fuse it with the foster father. Boss , run to the wheel of the clock. The ancestral brand water essence of the three surnames is fast . Insert the ancestral tablet in , come here and dig out the Jiang family's ancestral tablet for me. Zong Hang, please hand over the ancestral tablet so that the Tian family can live. Are you just watching Yi Qu die ? If she really dies, it will be your fault. Damn it , don't listen to his nonsense. Hand over the ancestral card quickly . Zonghang, little white pig , you'll be fine. Little white pig 's water essence is perfect. It's so perfect. Look, this is the water essence that can make you perfect water. What did he say? Didn't Yi Tie tell you that she could become water not by herself but by an accident more than 20 years ago that gave her the ability to become a water spirit? Ding Yudie, don't you hate liars the most? What a coincidence . This woman is the biggest liar , and Zong Hang, do you think she brought you down here for you? This ghost girl can't even maintain a perfect water spirit. She only has one. She just uses you to save her own life. I know , but I want you to know that in fact I knew it when I was riding a motorcycle. I'm sorry. Save me . You're at a loss. Zonghang. Little white pig Zonghang. Little white pig Zonghang. Wake up. Zonghang . Don't you like to listen to me? Wake up. Zonghang. The pain of people around you leaving. I can best understand the Yi family who were in trouble back then. I locked them all up and they were tortured by the mutation to the point of death . I personally solved their pain . By the way, your sister Yi Xiao was also the worst when she was dying. The most disgusting thing about her was that she looked like a ghost. How could she have the face to see her own sister? I was afraid that you would be sad. I threw her into the stinking ditch with my own hands. That place was the most suitable for her. Ding Changsheng's godfather, Lao Ding , although I I hate liars the most in my life , but it also proves that I, Ding Yudie , am the most orthodox person in the world. What I am most unhappy about now is this scum of the Ding family . There are still residual water essences in Zong Hang. Maybe he can be saved and avoid me. Ding Changsheng is the most The strong water forgot to tell you that the new mutated water is most afraid of allergic reactions to river fresh water. Old Ding is quick to tell you that you are also wiped out. The little white pig feeds you water essence and you are resurrected with full blood. Sorry , I owe you again. You only have one life, Zong Hang. If you continue to be so disobedient, you can commit suicide. I will give you your life now and take it back. I will listen to the sarcastic words in this life and the next life. Don't raise the flag in the next life . You have to live in this life. Let's talk about it. That old man is not dead. The water spirits are about to go berserk, we are here, the ancestral source, the Yin-Yang wheel, the bell, the three surnames, the ancestral tablets, the water essence, the gold soup, the water, the next life road , the ferry, waiting for thousands of boats, we are here, how did this smelly old man turn into a big strange fish, this throwback to his ancestors It must be too ancient. Here we are. Who are we? The water spirits in this cave may contain the genes and memories of another group of people , or they are not the Kobe Maru. Zong Hang and I are looking for weapons. Go save the Ding brothers , I'll attract attention. You go find the mines. Why won't I leave any of the Ding family members? Except for that old pervert Brother Die, the mines are looking for death. Hurry up and move Zonghang. The water is about to overflow. If you don't leave, everyone will fall into the water. Ghost , sister, we will meet again. There is an exit under the water. Everyone goes into the water. Ding's family enters the water. Zong Hangqian . Why do you want to fight? Gong Ying welcomes the new manager. He yells, let's go. Do you dare to ask the new manager if the water requires artificial respiration? I just did it knowingly. What is it like in a dream ? In the dream, we are much older than we are now. We can finally make a beautiful beauty mask. Even if the sky falls , don't ask me to move my butt. It's finally over. It's a pity that I can't help this time. It's not a waste of time to get water essence gallbladder . Before that, I saw in the hallucination of Xirang Cave that there is also an ancestral golden soup under the Yellow River. There should be water essence gallstone hidden in the Yellow River. Isn't that my king's territory? Why did he move his butt away after just a few words ? I am in charge, of course, I have to act like a landlord. Besides, who are we that old pervert said? ER IV. Why is the water essence gall hidden in Zuyuan? Why are there so many petrified people in Jintang and Zuyuanjintang ? And why do you have hallucinations ? Why don't I have hallucinations? It's so messy and complicated. Don't think so much. Let 's go quickly. Yi Hang, you call me SXR . Aren't you married? What's wrong with your uncle named Yi Laoxie ? All the people who turned over the pot were killed in the Zaqu River. They didn't even drink the Zuyuan Golden Soup. So how did Yi Xiao know the exit? Unless she wasn't Yi Xiao. Xiao , she is them