We often hear of remarkable people who, through with their craft. An example of such a person is Tsao-fu, a to become a skilled charioteer. So, he seized the opportunity to apprentice mastery. Years passed, and Tsao-fu served his master he just worked and followed commands. But rather than becoming disheartened, he that he was worthy of his teachings. One day, the master finally offered him a But it wasn't what Tsao-fu expected. Instead of jumping straight into charioteering, the ground and had Tsao-fu jump from one post After much practice, he could glide effortlessly And so, the master revealed the essence of or skill but about the union of intention With the reins, hands, body, and mind in harmony, himself. The action was effortless as he found himself The master stated: "When your mind is clear and your body is confusion, and twenty-four hooves will step Then the wheels of your chariot will move right with precision and control. You can drive on mountain roads with the same Your driving will not be different whether of a cliff or running on flat grassland. That is all I have to teach, so remember it End quote. The flow state, or 'being in the zone,' It's an optimal state of performance, an aren't able to create at will. We can't will ourselves into the flow state. On the contrary: the more you force it, the And the more frustrated you become by not until you're so done with trying that you But precisely in those moments, it appears hook, just after he gave up trying. The flow state is unreachable but not outside You can't grasp it. It grasps you. But only if you let it. I've been dedicating quite some words to a Taoistic philosophical viewpoint, including to 'effortless action.' With this video, I want to revisit the flow dimension. What's happening in our brain when we're What does academic research say about it? Why is it so elusive? And, perhaps most interestingly, what can This video explores the psychology of flow. By the way, if you enjoy reading, check out meets the musings of a modern mind. Let's begin with a personal story. As far as I remember, I've been an overthinker A significant part of my life I've spent the past and future, not paying attention Now, I only recently learned how to drive challenging things I ever had to learn. My driving instructor [@Mariyana: I attached it would be fun to show him this ] told when learning this skill: I overthink and After much practice, I finally got my license. As I've been driving for a while now, I I get a bit anxious when it's busy on the But often, all of a sudden, it's like I'm as if the crowded highway is one giant organism In those moments, I experience the flow state. When contemplating the flow state during driving, my mom and sister to the Ardennes, a forest into France and Germany, with hills, ridges, flatlands I come from. When you're used to everything being as happening in most of the Netherlands, driving The first thing I noticed is that my car responds to descending one, which is the most basic However, for some reason, it startled the has no software installed dealing with elevations This was my baptism of fire. My first time driving abroad on a different At the beginning of the trip, I felt slightly I was about to expand my comfort zone. I tried to plan, analyze, and sort out all I wanted to impress my mother and sister with I was a bit worried about the Belgian roads the traffic rules of our Southern neighbors. So, I was driving and driving, passing the toward the border when dark clouds, thunder, It was raining cats, dogs, Democrats, Republicans, I could barely see the driver before me, let ahead. My baptism of fire became a baptism of lousy I remember that that moment pushed me into I had no choice other than to ignore all discursive I stopped trying to drive well and just drove This sounds paradoxical because it is. When my desire to drive well ceased, I actually What started as this overanalyzing galore delightful experience. Mountain sights and curling highways came I overtook them as if we were bees, a swarm something greater than ourselves diligently between Liege and Namur. Oh, and the Belgian roads were pretty good, What baffled me was how euphoric it all felt. Just being there, one with the highway, the And the deeper I fell into this state, the something far away, unable to touch me. Looking back on my experience, I couldn't It was weird, considering how dangerous driving wheel as sitting on the couch watching Netflix highly unpredictable and fast-changing. But any attempt to analyze and sort out what I did it didn't generate any satisfying I remember my driving instructor saying before You learned it." It's a simple statement but profound. When we practice something and practice well within us; they become part of us. So, most of the time, it's not a matter It's more about removing the intellectual to speak, to allow these abilities to arise. The flow state is elusive, an enigma of the Yet, there have been people who attempted works and what triggers it. So, how does it work? The remainder of this video touches upon research the flow state and how we can arouse it. One of the leading experts on the flow state and university professor who wrote a book To maintain the flow of this video, I'll Mihaly reveals that what makes an experience consciousness called flow." Mihaly defines the flow state as being engaged one's skill level and intrinsically rewarding. In the flow state, we tend to experience intense loss of reflective self-consciousness, a merging sense of time. It's what constitutes an optimal experience, "It is what the sailor holding a tight course when the boat lunges through the waves like an a harmony that vibrates in the sailor's It is what the painter feels when the colors with each other, and a new thing, a living creator." End quote. He also noticed that such events of optimal People in horrible conditions, such as imprisonment optimal experiences, or flow states, as well. In fact, according to Mihaly, the flow state his body or mind to its limits to accomplish So, these moments aren't necessarily pleasurable or being at the height of a battle in a computer take a toll on one's body and mind, yet But we often hijack the flow state by what of inner disorder and chaos in the mind; it's Instead of being focused, our attention is moment, we're all over the place, lingering Instead of action and awareness being merged, by an information overload. In a state of psychic entropy, generally, less than smoothly. Mihaly stated: "Whenever information disrupts consciousness of inner disorder, or psychic entropy, a disorganization Prolonged experiences of this kind can weaken able to invest attention and pursue its goals". End quote. Psychic entropy can have different causes. There could be too many distractions; for your WhatsApp web application runs in the in while listening to a podcast with the television These are constant interruptions of information Similarly, multitasking can also cause psychic scatters one's attention. Another cause is interpersonal conflict, as repeat arguments and imagine confrontations, constructive and enjoyable tasks. Whatever the cause is, it always comes down consciousness. A prevalent example of this is worrying. When we worry, we try to impose order onto I drove to the Ardennes, worrying about the impressing my mom and sister, and the weather Essentially, I only had one task: driving But an overload of information overflowing to anxiety and scattered attention. And amid the psychic entropy behind the wheel, and effortless experience on the road, something frustration, which added another layer to All this 'trying' to drive as well as paralysis. I was standing in my own way. The action was taking place on the road. My awareness was taking place in my thoughts. Something needed to happen, some kind of sudden a stick shocking me out of my head into the The satisfying challenge of navigating my roads did that pretty well. The problem with the flow state is that it's into a flow state using effort. It's as if the more we try to be in a flow And that only when we stop trying to conceptualize it, it may grasp us by surprise without us So, it seems, as from my driving experiences, something to allow. But does that make the flow state something a random experience that may occur when we're According to Mihaly, the emergence of the He noticed that there are conditions for the The conditions become apparent when we engage as sports, rituals, art, and, I'd say, gaming These activities are designed to make flow Mihaly, as they facilitate the conditions Flow activities have rules and clear goals We have a sense of control over these activities But all flow activities have one thing in place by making it more complex. With 'complex' Mihaly means the development example, mastering rock climbing or painting. Flow happens when such transformation takes When engaging in a flow activity, Mihaly distinguishes and boredom. Anxiety occurs when one's skill level is Boredom occurs when the activity is too easy Hence, there's hardly any fun in playing a Gold-rank player (which is an average skill So, the match will very likely be a boring no challenge and no opportunity for growth. But playing against a level 2 Conqueror isn't in regards to 'skill level' that the average When the activity means just being repeatedly a flow state won't likely occur. Therefore, playing against players of around above) is optimal. However, when one's skill increases, it's to prevent boredom. So, there should be a balance between challenge A caveat is that the experience of challenges, people need more 'challenge' than others, in different activities. My sister, for example, finds her flow state which is where I experience it. So, for a significant part, where one's So, after all, the flow state doesn't seem it's a consequence of certain conditions, The flow state while driving was a fortunate Now, the question remains: what can we consciously When the poet becomes the poem, the driver the flow state. It's when trying has ceased and the conscious has waned. It's when the mind has stopped telling you It's when, as Taoist philosopher Zhuangzi come to a stop and spirit moves where it wants." It happens when you stop trying, and when Crave for it painfully, and it will elude Forget it and enjoy what you're doing, and There's no direct way of catching it. But when the conditions are there, it may So... how can we create these conditions? Here are some practical tips derived from your challenge-skill balance, set clear goals, on the task at hand and, thus, let go of planning, all the way, into whatever you're doing. When it comes to the focus part, there are such as mindfulness and meditation. Rituals and warm-up routines can help, too: task, which becomes more effective when they that reduces discursive thinking. Near the end of his book, Mihaly says that invade the mind and cause us so much anguish the mind. They're products of a vastly increased complexity In simpler times, humans were closer to animals psychic entropy in times of danger, hunger, worries brought about by the complex societies Is there a way back to such a simple mode It would be very difficult (and almost impossible) Thus, the challenge we face is to return to mind state in the face of our highly complex, Solitude, therefore, can help achieve flow, I mean, let's face it. Solitude allows us to turn away from the world, from certain media outlets. The constant flow of information, the noise of people's lives, and the consumeristic your time are significant birthplaces of distraction. Hence, for some activities and some individuals, So, what do you think? What triggers the flow state within you? And what prevents you from having it? Please let us know in the comments; this often If you're interested in a more philosophical view on the flow state I recommend that you watch my older video 'The philosophy of flow' which explores the flow state from a Taoistic point of view. Thank you for watching.