Why I've stopped using Google Search. Hi everyone, askleo.com. A quick reminder, I have a weekly where you can stay up to date that I publish throughout the week. So Google's search engine They made a better search engine at that time and they were very, I definitely ran tests periodically to just see who gave me the the best results that I cared about. Unfortunately, there's a term it has started to apply to Google search. That term is and shitification. It's a four step process. In the beginning, they're they start to abuse their users Stage three, they start to in favor of their bottom line. And then in stage four, well, they die. Google, in my opinion, when it comes between stages two and stage three, And I want to show you how that happens. So we'll head over here to google. com as my search engine. I'm going to search for coffee makers So here are some search results, In fact, there is not a search result If you look carefully over on the left sponsored that tells you that this entire displayed are not the result of your paying to be displayed on the page for this particular term on. So for example, maybe Keurig, but these companies are coming in I don't know, a nickel, say on a search related to coffee makers. And of course they set up try to make themselves appear for. And appearing at the top of is something that you can pay for. In other words, yes, you can Google search results and that's what In fact, if I scroll down, And it's unclear to me whether My guess is they probably are. My guess is that this sponsored row, but also to the second. But I'm not sure these could We just don't know. If we scroll down a little further, And then finally, after scrolling down we get what we would really consider to the term that we've been searching for. Google has been termed these days to occasionally show search results. And that's really unfortunate because What they're clicking on are not are, but rather they're clicking to put in that position. So with that as the problem, Well, there are of course several. They each have their pros and cons about those and which ones I'm actually We'll start with bingo. Bing is probably the most obvious it's ubiquitous and that ubiquity I'll talk about that in a second. Once again, we'll hit coffee makers. Same thing here, though. We start with the results This top row once again is as pointed out These are ads for coffee makers. They are not necessarily the results They are the result of advertisers It's not until we scroll down a little bit search results for coffee makers. Now, in this case, Bing has shown us They've been marked as ads. It's better. But I resist Bing on principle, Microsoft is trying so hard to ram Bing that it's the search engine used in many search engine specified, bugs me. Similarly, as with edge sometimes being what your default browser is, to using Bing as its search engine. These are things that I I think our choices should be respected if if they want to be the search engine to be a better search engine. They need to be demonstrably And honestly, right now, You've seen how bad Google is right now. So if I'm avoiding Bing, Well, this is one that you've It's duckduckgo. And once again, Now, to be clear, And you can see here that it, too, Then there's another ad. Then there's another ad. The good news here is that Yes, they are still ads. Like I said, DuckDuckgo needs to everybody else with advertising revenue. Now, the reason DuckDuckgo is better still my opinion, are their privacy policies. The ads that show in the search engine We've all seen ads that Well, that's because those ads the things we've looked at, the sites and that also affects the search results. Ads in both Google and Bing, it does not. In DuckDuckgo, these are ads and search term, not your prior behavior. Again, it's a privacy enhancement basically more favorable browser. And in fact, it's what I've for some time, and it works fine. I get the results that I want. Now, there is one other alternative That's kaji. The reason that kaji. com has no ads is that it It's not expensive, and you do have, do for free as a trial to see if it's But the bottom line here is that Kaji simply asks you to subscribe, If we now look for coffee makers here, There are no ads on this page. That, to me, is worth It's now clear what I'm getting. Now, one of the issues with they get their search engine results. As it turns out, they get So in a sense, we're We're actually using Bing indirectly, using them through a third party. That, in my opinion, gives us better The other thing, of course, But I know that Kodji also relies on results based on the nature But again, none of this And in the case of Kaji, there are Now, there are some other search engines. In fact, there's probably many more Four more that I want to at least experiment with them, include AOL. Yep, they're still around. Brave from the creators of focused search engine perplexity, AI. This one I find interesting. I haven't played with it too much yet, to maybe gather or or enhance in response to a search and@yahoo. com dot@yahoo. com has been around forever. They are yet another search engine Some of these, once again, other search engines like Bing, but clearer and perhaps more useful to you. So bottom line, what should you do? My recommendation is simple. If you want to avoid Google Microsoft, my recommendation If you're interested in getting rid then I actually do recommend kaji. I've been using it for a while. The results are good, and it any ads intermixed for updates, to this topic and more, visit askleo.com/170290. I'm Leo Notenboom, and this is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.