Let us all please stand for our prayer. Please close your eyes and all around you Please pray with me. Mother, Friend, Beloved God, Jesus Christ, Bhagavan Krishna, Mahavatar Babaji, Lahiri Mahasaya, Swami Sri Yukteswar, our guru Paramahansa Yogananda, saints of all religions, we bow to you all. O immortal Guru, I bow and touch your feet. Your love and your wisdom is ever guiding my path. O blessed Guru, in the stillness of meditation awaken my heart and mind with your joyous omnipresence. Help me to feel ever guiding and blessing me. Aum. Peace. Amen. Please be seated. Good morning. Thank you for joining us. It's a beautiful March morning. A special welcome to any of you learning, and seeking. Our service this morning The lotus flower in India and Asia of the human consciousness symbolizing the consciousness you know, and unaware But then the lotus gradually the opening of our consciousness to -- divine potential. And then the fully open lotus the light of the sun And you see on top of both in the closed position and also down at the lake. So everywhere you go These were selected by as a symbol of our We also want to explore the meaning and purpose who comes to bring light and into the darkness and to help guide us So let us now have a meditation "Thou art my life, Thou art the sweetness This is a Cosmic Chant composed by and he is making an invocation to the personal God within us, Cosmic Spirit that dwells within us, and making a declaration that this Cosmic Spirit of our love and our consciousness. Thou art my life, Thou art my love, Thou art the sweetness Thou art my life, Thou art my love, Thou art the sweetness In the thought by my love brought, In the thought by my love brought, I taste Thy name, so sweet, so sweet. Devotee knows how sweet You are. Devotee knows how sweet You are. He knows, whom You let know. He knows, whom You let know. Thou art my life, Thou art my love, Thou art the sweetness Thou art my life, Thou art my love, Thou art the sweetness In the thought by my love brought, In the thought by my love brought, I taste Thy name, so sweet, so sweet. Devotee knows how sweet You are. Devotee knows how sweet You are. He knows, whom You let know. He knows, whom You let know. Devotee knows how sweet You are. Devotee knows how sweet You are. He knows, whom You let know. He knows, whom You let know. Sitting straight and erect, with the hands resting close your eyes and lift your gaze, focusing at the point between your eyebrows, lifting your mind and your eyes and draw a slow, gentle inhaling breath. Exhale, and relax. Now keep the body motionless and relaxed. Feel relaxation throughout your body. Feel relaxation melting into stillness. Draw a slow, gentle inhaling breath. Exhale and feel. Feel comforting peace Feel the lotus of your heart and mind gracefully opening to receive the light of God. Let us take a moment to feel and enjoy the safety and the comfort sharing our hearts and minds and Feel that you are sharing your peace with all those around you. Now ask God to bless your life, to bring in strength, comfort, Out of formless Cosmic Spirit there flows the great song of God known in all religions This great voice, Cosmic Voice, through creation, sustaining it; It is omnipresent. We can feel it as we chant Aum together out loud. Let us now chant Aum feeling the power So this morning, the opening lotus -- it's a symbol from India and Asia where the lotus symbolizes the human It is opening to receive the flow of, you know, cosmic light and new understanding. And so this lotus of enlightenment, is something that we all experience. And it goes from a small bud, a tight bud of not knowing about the real purpose of life, it begins to receive Our paramguru, Swami Sri Yukteswar -- he's the wise gentleman he composed a book of profound sutras and in this book he talks about the unfoldment of human potential, spiritual potential; as an evolution of the heart, a journey of the heart. It's very beautiful, it's very concise but it helps to guide as to how we are unfolding, how we are growing into He defines five stages the heart's unfoldment. The first one is the closed lotus bud -- he calls the "dark" stage of the heart. The next stage, the bud begins with seeking and striving He calls this second stage, There is a sense of seeking, welcomes in the illumined teacher to bring in the light of and a greater personal potential. There is a third stage and Sri Yukteswar calls this It is a stage where we have discovered our life and consciousness. The fourth stage is "devoted," which is a stage of great gratitude of a loving experience and then finally the stage of being transformed of our pure spirituality. And so, today we are exploring We're not going to try to cover it all. We're exploring the second stage, that is, the stage of seeking. And if you are new here to us this is a perfect message for you. Because not only will it give you some where you are in your search, but it will also, I think, help you to know that this is a So, the beauty of this is and it's universal. We're looking at how the journey -- this journey of the heart a darkness of unknowing, a darkness of ignorance -- and then it becomes a quest. So, the journey becomes a quest, And then, under the guidance the quest then becomes a path, the spiritual path that we can actually and then reach our ultimate goal, So, this darkness is a state of unknowing, It's very frustrating, and sometimes we wonder And gradually we begin to question. That is, "Is this all there is? Is there something more here? My heart and mind is yearning for a greater experience I find, you know, the short-lived love you know, the pain of this world that I cannot understand. There has to be a way And so, the propelled stage of seeking for a greater truth and And just as questions and a search must precede discovery, so this yearning of the heart precedes an illumination. And this is God's design. And so having questions that seem to have no answers -- this is a stage of the propelled heart. That is, it is a part of the I remember that is, the crisis of "Who am I? Why am I here?" I remember these big "What is my purpose here? Where was I before I was born, I was caught up in these ponderings. Now, the people around me couldn't and yet these questions persisted. And I also remember "There's got to be something more, you know, it can't just be this." There was a feeling on one side and there was another feeling "There has to be; if I've been given and the desire for growth, there that is all worthwhile." And so, this is the propelled heart, and it's this propulsion that drives the search for truth. And it drives us, it moves us from darkness to light. So, seeking always precedes finding. The questions are vitally important. The discontent -- the sense of rebellion, -- this is a vital force. And if you feel this within you it's part of your propelled And those of you meditating and absorbing the wonderful you know exactly Because not only is this deeply personal, it's also universal. Everyone goes through it A man told me, he said, "Ever since I was a little boy, I would go to my father 'Where do I go after I die?' Why is there war?'" And he said, 'Don't waste your time asking questions And he said, "I stopped asking. But the questions didn't go away." He said, "They continued. And I found myself compelled to be reading and searching." "Finally, I found in the teachings he said, "especially these amazing that go into the cosmology of our growth He said, "It was that I started to get I shared with you a podcast interview and the skeptical host was not believing, So, the conversation goes you know, wanting to know And then finally, he said, "You know, I've been reading a lot of books, but they're not satisfying." And I said, "Well, you have to understand like we're talking about, Sooner or later, you need to And that's where you will And I saw the light go on in his eyes, "Ah! this is personal. It's also universal." Now, the propelled stage of the heart And this produces what I would call an inner soul call, an inner soul call. So, my rebellion you know, Not to a God, because to an empty, silent universe At that point, I didn't But I did believe that there was or omnipresent consciousness And so, either way, whether, you know, it's a God it's a formless empty universe; the soul at this stage places You just place a direct call to It's, "Help, I need help.&quot; There have to be answers, There has to be wisdom here; I have to understand What is my purpose, And that is when The Creator responds and sends And Paramahansa Yogananda ancient script from way back, identified by the sages who recognize that there is that's been programmed there is an order behind the chaos. And when we seek -- and the deeper that we seek -- In his little book, Whispers From Eternity, it's a beautiful book I'm presenting the one in Spanish a number of languages that our publications are presented in. And in this book Paramahansa Yogananda to his guru Swami Sri Yukteswar. And the tribute is very beautiful he describes, in this tribute, evolution of the heart. And his opening line is: "O, light of my life." He's addressing his Guru, "O, light of my life, thou didst spread wisdom's glow And so, the darkness open into the seeking stage. And at the point when it that we need answers, we need to have proof, then God responds who brings light, the light of experience, the light of direct perception. And so, Paramahansa Yogananda how Sri Yukteswar came and brought this wisdom glow, into his life. And then he describes and how it was transformative And then he, with gratitude, He says to Sri Yukteswar, "Thou art the Thou art the divine door leading to the temple of salvation." And so, this describes in poetic form, the purpose and mission of the illumined teacher and is able then to impart to us There's a classic story in India It's a scriptural story about who was a very good king. he was always an advocate He was always holding up dharma against He was well loved by his kingdom. The people there, and he ruled a very, very long time. His name was Muchukunda and if you have read some you will know this one. I'm giving a but the short story here is that Muchukunda becomes very weary and all the responsibilities, you know, And so, he literally checks out and he leaves his kingdom And according to the story, he goes and finds a cave. And he told everybody, "I just want to And so, he is in this cave and he's resting and And he's in this cave and then according to the story, is out on a small military campaign, and he stops by the cave And so, the Bhagavan walks into the cave, radiating this beautiful light and he discovers King Muchukunda And Muchukunda, in his dream state, recognizes that someone has entered. And he wakes up and and he doesn't know what it is, he looks and he sees a form, "Who are you? Are you a divine being? No, no, you are greater than this. Are you Surya, God of the sun? No, even greater. You must be Narayana himself, So, he has this recognition. He sees the light. He sees the form. And then he knows that the light of God with Krishna. And he gets up and he very reverently he very humbly, And then we can envision him with his hands in pranam. And Krishna says to him: "Muchukunda, you are a good man. And you are a great king. Your mind is noble I would like to grant you a wish. What is your heart's desire?" And Muchukunda's reply is famous. He says: "Oh Lord, I have withdrawn and still I am tired. I realize now that my weariness I want true happiness and lasting peace. Lord, my one wish -- please grant me a place so that I will have no more sorrow and no more suffering." And then the story ends with Krishna And then grants him grace And so, this has a wonderful interpretation for our theme today because we can say that -- our journey is struggling within a certain amount And when the intention to discover more becomes strong, the illumined teacher, an illumination of new understanding And then we find our response of what is being presented to us, and a yearning in the heart arises. A yearning in the heart to learn more, to experience more, and to follow. There is a yearning that wants to follow Krishna says, in the Bhagavad Gita "O Partha (Arjuna)! in whatever way people in that measure All men, in every manner of seeking, And so, the scripture here is illustrating the universal stages that we go through and even the personal drama that we And when that drama it's not experienced or shared by others, we have this feeling We feel maybe or maybe this isn't something No, this is God's design. And when you come to this temple, you are surrounded by people who have been It's so unique. And so, our yearning inside and he finds us in the darkness, and he brings in the light. We recognize the divinity and we feel the loving response. And this is an opportunity for us to say, "I want my life to change, and I believe that this is a way Because when we get to these we don't have a guide. We don't have a rule book, We don't have anyone around who has actually followed the path. And that is the purpose one who has gone before. Paramahansa Yogananda "When you are moving blindly stumbling in the darkness, you need the help of someone You need a guru." So, Self-Realization Fellowship and its international work It is not a church that, you know, baptizes families We follow an ancient legacy of seeking -- Your freewill-choice is vitally important And we honor this. Lake Shrine especially -- you start to recognize that And they first come down and they kind of wander around and and they sit quietly and they They come back a third time and they pick And then they look up above "What is that place up there?" And so then they show up here. So, really, it's a pattern. I'm the Minister here And I see this reaction, So actually, from the there's some good news, because people have been pushed It's like, "I don't agree with all this stuff. This is not good. It's aroused in people, this rebellion against what is They want to have something more. for themselves. And so, during this past three years, many new quests have been launched, many new quests, and some of you And so the journey then becomes a need for answers, a And when I'm greeting after a I'll be talking to people, on a person who's off and they're just watching. And I can feel their trembling heart. They're seeking; I was at the Lake level not long and I saw a young woman And I saw the fear in her eyes. And I broke away from the And I walked up and I said softly, "Don't trust your And her eyes popped wide open "Are you reading my mind?" "No, but I can relate." Her story is also my own. You know, our story travels with us. We never forget where we have come from as And this helps me to get back. A man came out of the and he just walked right up and he said, "That service today What should I do next?" And I looked right at him "Keep coming back." He said, "That's it?" And he did. And I saw him coming out of the and he started to smile. And the smile got wider and wider. And then one day he came "I want to thank you." He said, "The Master and these amazing I want to thank you, and do you remember when I asked you, 'What should I do next?' My heart was afraid of I was afraid that what comes next But you made it simple and you said, 'Keep coming back.' And I was so happy because And he said, "Now I'm and it's making all the difference." So these people are all around us. You have been one of them, too. We share this in common. And we need to respect this. I give respect to all seekers; all seekers. Your search, your quest, and it's going to lead to your So how did this propelled our prayer is like a voice And God responds then and and this Divine intervention comes with a special gift -- a gift of recognition. We recognize, just as who was bringing light into we recognize who the guru is and what what the guru has to offer. And you can relate and then someone It's like you can't wait to and they don't care. They don't care. It's like they just don't get it. And that's part of this unfoldment. Jesus was preaching at Caesarea, and then he met with his disciples after meeting with so And he looked around at his disciples, "Whom do men say that I am?" Yeah, he knew He'd been healing people. "Whom do the people say I am?" And the disciples discussed, and they or one of the prophets," And then Jesus stopped them, and he And then Peter gave "Thou art the Christ, And then Jesus said, "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jonah, for flesh and blood hath but my Father which is in heaven." The Divine intervention and the recognition is a gift of God -- to be able to understand and what the Sat-Guru offers us. So the recognition is very important and it actually precedes So when we cry for help, God and we recognize the power and that he has the ability to Paramahansa Yogananda and the role of the organization he I use this frequently in Master says: "The aim of Self-Realization the exact techniques of widening so that truth might flow in without obstructions of Yogoda points out not only the words but the path of concentration It teaches the from belief to personal realization and individual Isn't that beautiful? It's very complete. It's a package in of itself. And he's saying, "Here's the gift. You asked. This is the answer." And he's essentially describing the This is part of the which we desperately want and need, and it's God response to not only And when we make a commitment, because the Guru is there trying We have said, "Help." And the Guru says, And we say, And Guru says, "Okay, let's go." He becomes a divine friend. These are divine doors through from darkness into light. We all love the swans at the Lake, sailing along serenely. The swans are a symbol in India. The Sanskrit name is paramahansa. Paramahansa is the supreme swan. And in ancient scripture, the paramahansa is carries the disciple across the ocean It's a very beautiful image, and if you'd like to get do a web search -- not now, but later. Do a web search on a mother swan And you can see the but it's especially good you know, there's mother swan and then there's little She's carrying them around until And so this is the symbolism the divine swan that carries the soul across the ocean of delusion to And in closing now, I would late president, Mrinalini Mata, on the event of Guru Purnima, which is honoring the Guru in India. In 2014 she expressed these words. She said: "Often devotees that they could have known -- that is in body. "While those of us are eternally grateful we have seen in the years how he continues to of all who inwardly by practicing his teachings And then she summarizes, "Our relationship with the Guru uncircumscribed by time and space." So this is the journey of the heart. It is the early stage starting to move how the journey through the and how the quest produces a soul call; and God responds and sends an and then how we then follow, and the quest becomes a path defined by the guru that we can use to transform our daily life and our So I hope this message and it's something that you can because the experience and it's also universal. So you have your own story but at the same time, because all those around you, everyone is going So we're all in this together. And in this sense we have a real We can honor and respect each and the work that we that is so invisible to the world, we can assume that those around us and coming to their own steps forward So this is really a very beautiful for our life at the and the new potential that we Let us now stand Please fold your hands and pray. Heavenly Father, Thou art omnipresent. Thou art in all Thy children. Manifest Thy healing presence in their bodies, in their minds, in their souls. Please raise your arms. Let us chant Aum. For healing of the mind; Aum. For soul realization; Aum. And for greater peace in our world. Aum. Please fold your hands and let us pray together. Heavenly Father, Mother, Friend, Beloved God, Jesus Christ, Bhagavan Krishna, Mahavatar Babaji, Lahiri Mahasaya, Swami Sri Yukteswar, our guru, Paramahansa Yogananda, saints of all religions, we bow to you all. O Immortal Guru, I bow and touch your feet. Your love and your wisdom ever lights my path. In the stillness of my meditation awaken my heart and mind with your joyous omnipresence. Help me to feel and know your loving inspiration ever guiding and blessing me. Aum. Peace. Amen.