Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship and violent periods of Chilean history. Thousands of citizens This was the period &quot;the disappeared,&quot; emerged. Chile was seen until the Pinochet regime. They said, &quot;This is the one we want.&quot; They told me and make sure that I didn't run that they showed me, General Pinochet's regime I think that's I believe the Pinochet dictatorship radically changed Even today, the discussions are rooted in things both in terms of human rights violations and in terms of the economic policy This is a battle that's still going on. It's actually defining our own time. The question of neoliberalism We remember Pinochet but also because of a new global economic order. You can't underestimate of what he actually did. In the summer of 1973, the government of socialist president The commander in chief of the army, His replacement is Augusto Pinochet. Within a month, a coup would be launched that left Allende dead I was a medical student and the coup happened and I was going normally I did reach the university In fact, we stayed and we heard the Hawker Hunter planes going towards the center of Santiago and passing quite low and bombing the Moneda Palace. We heard that. Pinochet was appointed by Allende He trusted Pinochet. Pinochet's predecessor, because the trigger was the wives of the senior officer corp Prats was a minister He was briefly vice president, Allende had full confidence in Pinochet. General Carlos Prats He was appointed in 1970 by right-wing extremists. It was a coup attempt General Prats was a constitutionalist. He believed in the elected government. He was loyal to Allende until the end, and so elements that were right-wing were opposed to him. They thought he was a block Carlos Prats recommended that he appoint because he believed Pinochet was loyal He believed that Pinochet because Pinochet or having political views. He'd professed He'd said, &quot;I'll lay down my life &quot;and the elected government.&quot; Carlos Prats In August 1973, Pinochet became commander in chief By September of 1973, it was clear that Chile in a long line of coup d'etats that had recently overthrown After his recent promotion, Augusto Pinochet in the overthrow of his new boss, Allende. Certainly, I think, He was convinced, or he sounded convinced, that the armed forces in Chile and that they were never going Chile had a relatively long history so there weren't many precedents and I think that also led many people because there was no real tradition There had been some at the end but certainly not in the past 50 years that even that agenda I think that we always felt wrongly. We can see now that in Chile, They were not going to have There wasn't any tradition of that. We were wrong. Pinochet must have been thinking of increasing instability, and a sense of paralysis I don't doubt Although he himself, discussed planning seditious activity there's no evidence of that as yet. CIA documents from the time during Allende's government. I think one document refers but not Pinochet himself. This is why I think I suspect When he realized that the coup plans were so far advanced that they were going he must have also known that he, the biggest part of the Chilean military, would just by taking part That would open huge opportunities for his own power I think this is what happened. On the Friday before the coup, seditious officers, went to see Pinochet, and demanded to know They'd been demanding for some time, and it was only on that Friday that he would support them. The coup happened four days later. When the coup started to unravel many different events started to unfold, and Allende learned pretty quickly The first movements and the Navy started to retreat that they were going It became clear for everyone Salvador Allende who was working at La Moneda Palace, and he asked them Then he just stood there, He was warned that a military coup He was offered and leaving the position of president, That he had a democratic mandate so he was going to stay there Then the rest is history, like they say, when the military Salvador Allende killed himself with a gun His family managed The coup had succeeded, and the heads of the Chilean Navy, comprised a new junta but it was Augusto Pinochet This is La Moneda Palace in Santiago. There's more than enough for the takeover of that palace, destroyed by remarkably by the Chilean Air Force, but now the military regime Having won the battle for the palace, they have to win and that means they must try to convince that they shouldn't have done so. Salvador Allende's presidency had come but the forces had not just come from within Chile but from even more powerful forces Salvador Allende was a doctor He was determined to improve but by 1970, there was a real thirst People liked his call to end inequality, to reduce poverty, However, the United States as its sphere of influence, its backyard. This was the Cold War. All US governments were terrified and fearful of left-wing governments Remember, Fidel Castro and US politicians were determined another left-wing leader, Henry Kissinger famously said of Chile, &quot;Why should we stand by &quot;just because of the irresponsibility The issue that was raised was whether somebody elected with 36%, and frankly, pursuing policies that we considered hostile or should be enabled. You have the zeitgeist of an era, and the zeitgeist of 1970 The Soviets seemed and so Allende comes into this febrile mix with a radical socialist program. It is not communism, but it is He increased the incomes of the very poor. He made all education free, What Allende was actually introducing was no more which we have today this one included. That is all he was doing on that front. In fact, 45% of the GDP but that's pretty much the norm In fact, it's quite considerably less. The vulnerability, I think, the ideological silliness, and confiscation because, by doing that, you alienated America, The general population That's something that penetrates. It's a very good weapon It's going to be communism, and to say People tend not to understand Kissinger and Nixon started to think about a strategy of how to unseat Allende Since he was democratically elected It was a complicated operation has always been or trying so they didn't want to intervene overtly. They decided to try to destabilize Then they did that and when the coup took place, Nixon and Kissinger facilitated the coup. They coordinated everything and the para-institutions of the US state. Transnational corporations and so on, with the assistance of local actors and other governments like the British which we now know, this seditious activity Fundamentally, as it were, the elite, institutional capacity, by 1970 to overthrow Allende I think this is clear when we think despite this huge economic and social-political pressure like the terrorism campaign, it still took three years to destroy Chilean constitutionality and create the space That's why I think it's less facilitation Once the coup d'etat was successful, the notorious caravan of death This Chilean army death squad while thousands more were arrested, We were detained by the police and treated quite roughly where they were concentrating people I heard a lot of shots and people being... We didn't know We didn't know if they were killed We didn't know at that time. Later, we learned that some people That was the situation. They took me to a van and blindfolded me. There were two other people in the van, and they took me to one Villa Grimaldi, a notorious place, I was there for 24 hours, to another secret house, detention house, where I was kept for about two weeks and where I was interrogated I was then transferred to another place, It was not the secret detention houses, but it was like a prison, but nobody knew. Until that moment, for a month, Finally, after a month, where it was mainly a place but I wasn't blindfolded. I was with other prisoners in one cell, and it was a place mostly to recover from the injuries, whatever had happened with the torture. After a week, one of the many concentration camps I was there for about a year. Only when I got to that place and then they could visit me once I was bruised. I was never unconscious. We were hit with rubber truncheons to create internal hematomas but not to have an open wound in the skin. They even took Their main objective, the main thing was to frighten us, and to see if we could give them As I said, where they were not targeting Cleverly enough, electric shocks don't leave which they can... Electric shocks in certain parts which was the main type of torture Some people would get punched, It was mostly electricity, hanging, and things that do not leave obvious marks in the body after a week or so. It was to recuperate mentally We were certainly not given any medicine. I was taken to one of the very notorious secret torture houses that they had, because of the type of torture in addition They also used a dog that had been trained to make sexual advances on women. I was taken to that place these tortures. It was also well-known I was certainly raped twice. That was the fate that were in that place One of the defining characteristics was the drastic economic experiments that were conducted The question of Pinochet is the great million-dollar question. We have the Chicago School, We have Milton Friedman's book Pinochet does something because previous dictatorships They've been about the fatherland. They've been about national power. They've been about ethnonationalism, etc. They haven't been about free markets. Dictators tolerate free markets, but what they ultimately seek and secondly, control. With many dictatorships, we're really talking Chile was about something far different. It was about shrinking Pensions were privatized, and health was privatized. They privatized everything they could. There was when I was in prison and coming over here. This new model implanted with a military boot to help it out, I should stress that people only as a brutal torturer and dictator, but the economic consequences He could do it only and pushed a program in a completely uncontrolled way. One thing to understand is that they went His economic policies were carried out by a group of technocrats They were economists in the Chicago School of Economics, and they believed in monetarism, and this meant policies reducing the state, and opening It was really but at the same time, the armed forces and killing trade unionists, banning independent trade unions, making it possible These were part and parcel that you cut public spending but you made sure by brutally repressing the trade unions. It was the first country to do that, When we speak of the Reagan we're speaking Pinochet was a generation ahead What he was offering for a completely different way of being, where the state was a mere skeleton. It was to create a new order, a new economic order, a radically new way It captured the imagination of people When the conservative government and Margaret Thatcher the relationship between the UK There were both sides of it. On the one side, because of the human rights violations, and basically, all countries Then, when Margaret Thatcher and she had a similar view and then when the Falklands War Chile actually helped the UK in that war. The Secretary of State for Defense has just come over and I think you'd like to have it at once. The message we've got is that British troops shortly after 4 p.m. London time. They have now successfully At about 6 p.m. London time, the white flag was hoisted in Grytviken and shortly afterwards, the Argentine forces there During the Falklands War, Britain relied but for many years, Even if you look at the declassified about the Falklands conflict, most of the information It's because it's viewed particularly for relations What we know is that the Chileans They passed on intelligence. In particular, they gave data in Punta Arenas in the south of Chile. Key information for British forces. They allowed British aircraft and carry out reconnaissance flights so they helped in all sorts of ways. Chile intervenes radically but it gives Britain It forces Argentina to retain troops It does very many other things with Royal Air Force planes At the time, nobody knew much about this. They knew Chile was being helpful, there was a great importance and remaining silent on the huge magnitude Britain wanted it to appear Chile didn't want to alienate so frankly sympathetic to Argentina, The relationship went deep back Pinochet was a huge Anglophile, she took a very clear dogmatic view. Chile had helped save our bacon and therefore she'll never renege. She would never betray Pinochet. She would always support him because she felt for what he'd done and a blaze which, given what we know is rather amazing. She took a fairly simple-minded view. You have to be loyal to the people That was it. After that, after the Falklands War, Britain attempted, attempted to repay Pinochet British diplomats, for example, worked really hard behind the scenes trying to water down of the Pinochet regime. Margaret Thatcher to the Pinochet regime and sold all sorts of material, to the Pinochet regime. By the end of the 1980s, and it would finally come to an end where a referendum was held on whether Pinochet's rule Deprived of even the most basic expression of democratic rights they gathered in Santiago today It was the culmination Moderate Christian democrats, socialists, The flags making up &quot;the command for the no.&quot; All of them united in opposition It was the biggest political rally The end of the Cold War essentially meant that the regime to Western governments. Suddenly, it no longer mattered. You didn't need hard men and toothbrush mustaches. You didn't need fascists anymore, There was no longer a binary division Pinochet could hardly really fit in. It actually occurs where he has The collapse Once the plebiscite had been agreed, there was obviously going There were social elements a media element to that campaign, One of the Christian Democrat leaders a man called Andres Zaldivar, has left the testimony to get funds for this &quot;no campaign.&quot; I think he talks about gathering which is quite a lot of money and that this money is what was used the advertising campaigns, the TV slots that were given They recruited a very able team who decided, rather than using rather than reiterating to focus on a positive future. That's why they used It was remarkably successful. This morning, the army took position around key government buildings With so much international pressure they're keeping a low profile so far. The opposition's final opinion polls The government insists otherwise, On the eve of this vote, to question what General Pinochet In theory, this is Pinochet's last chance. In practice, though, so democratically. It was an important year, was open for everyone to go Political parties were able to organize and provide a campaign and also the incumbent government. In this case, political campaigns Then, after a very heated campaign where television was very important were going through and also a lot of rallies and people and having a conversation in the previous 15 years. There was a big discussion about whether he would accept In fact, there's evidence because he enacted a constitution in 1980. In the absence of electoral registers, anybody could vote There were no international observers and yet that produced a chronogram that would allow ideas for the continuation of Pinochet. That referendum led which was a 55-45% rejection of Pinochet. Pinochet did not take the results and attempted to hold on to power, but his influence and a genuine democratic election Pinochet remained as commander in chief and was made a senator for life, but in 1998, he was indicted in Spain and he'd be arrested in London, where he was receiving in a stunning legal event When he was still at The London Clinic, people who worked in The London Clinic, There were interested enough people and somebody gave a tip that Pinochet The Spanish thing was quickly accelerated, The Scotland Yard arrived at the clinic, and Pinochet had his own guard, and military looking after him, but the Scotland Yard and now he was under arrest. That was certainly, I think, for Chileans for what it meant to be able to do that and for Chile, because I think in Chile, it was a shock for them to realize He was untouchable at that time. People were not responding. They were paralyzed with fear The fact that he had been arrested and certainly in the UK there was a strong solidarity movement The people here were trying to support Pinochet's arrest here in London and to his image within Chile. Also to the image held by those even after finding out The fact that he could be arrested showed them how much of an outsider he was and how universal In the end, after a long legal battle. However, he soon faced but now What happens is he loses immunity. He has immunity as a former president All that goes, There is a great problem. He has a magnificent defense, He said, &quot;and if it didn't happen, This is how he is able to elude a trial. He is never actually put on trial. They are pursuing him in the end Not only what was done the torture but also the corruption, and the tax evasion. He accumulates a fortune of $25 million, though well disguised He dies under house arrest. He was given a military funeral, He's given a military funeral During that funeral, the grandson of General Prats I believe the Pinochet dictatorship that Chileans treat each other, what their aspirations are, the police, the army, their neighbors, How much faith they have I think I have to give credit Although he was he was extremely foxy and pragmatic in some respects. For example, he reserved 10% of the sales of copper to fund the military. This didn't go They went directly to the army. He funded, and this meant support from his fellow army officers for him of diverting an important part to what later on He was corrupt just like the Central American dictators He was never brought to justice but he is not the only one. There are still detention, kidnapping, and assassination and some who have been brought to justice and were then sent Others, the trials We've been waiting for a little bit I said we, myself, who were with us in the torture houses. For over 20 years, I think the problem with Pinochet He is an authoritarian. He is a brute, but he is not actually a genocidalist He's not actually an ethnonationalist He's not a mere authoritarian What he is is an ideologue, and that ideology suffuses our own times, He was the alpha of the world which is but he turned his entire nation into a unique kind of economic experiment, Pinochet became also because there was protesting against Salvador Allende His idea of a peaceful road to socialism, had inspired people, and they were horrified You saw across Europe, and across the world. It was also for that reason as one of the most hateful dictators