Learning data science These skills open you up paying jobs in a rapidly growing field. Data is everywhere and companies need people with these skills If you're a beginner, for very low cost online. Don't get me wrong, a degree will certainly be very helpful Now, a great platform to learn because they offer high quality courses for a low monthly fee or even for free You also get certificates In this video, I'm going to cover So let's get started. First on the list, Now, data science is a very popular field from companies to decision making to chat They're all trained on data for data science. So learning Python specifically for this will set you up Now the course itself has a 4.5 rating with no prior experience or any programing And yes, because it is a course for beginners, but All that it means some of the other courses on Coursera, going to be a little bit more challenging Also very rewarding. Now it takes about four months and the schedule is flexible, There are five courses The first one is an introduction Next, we have applied plotting, sorting Then we have applied machine learning and finally applied a social networking Now what about the pros and cons? Well, I think it's a really great course University of Michigan I've taken courses from them myself all of the reputation on a bad course It's also affordable and financial aid But the best thing is to focus not just about learning abstract concepts, The main issue that I see for a role towards the analytics, it's But the next course definitely is. Number two, the Google Data and well known course, that much about it, It has 4.8 stars, six months, a 10 hours per week and nearly The courses in this program are structured according to the data analytics lifecycle. So you start by asking questions, preparing data, processing and also some programing an hour The purpose of this course It's also a very well known course The downsides are It's very beginner level and you'll learn more instead of Python. A Next up, even better, and we have the advanced And before we get into all the more advanced courses, Now, this is an extension of the original you'll work a lot with Python instead, Oh, it says advanced level really is just It's not an advanced course by any means. A beginner can still take this, first course first, but you can take it If that makes sense. It's also six months, 10 hours data science skills, not just the classic The first course is foundations. Course, too, is about introduction into insights course for about statistics Next, you learn about machine learning for 37 hours, Of course, not go super in-depth because you don't you'll have a capstone project. The good thing about this course and focusing on a lot of different data focusing on data analytics mainly, Now the big downside no sequel in this course All right. Moving on to number four, This course has a 4.6 rating of over score. It's a beginner level course Supposed to prepare you for a career like data scientist, Now, I personally think it's slightly misleading because if you don't it's going to be very tough to land if not, absolutely impossible, So let's go through First, You learn about all the tools, the methodology, and then get working You'll do a project with Python which is a huge but they're also really useful later Since the portfolio make you stand out from the competition, about databases and sequel and data And as you can see, and that's a very good thing Finally, we have machine learning in a capstone project, The pros and cons of this I also like to focus on projects It's also very general course but it can also be If you're looking for a specific thing, Could be a course So consider the opportunity cost If there's a course that's better for you, Instead, let's move on to number five, I promise and but I just had to mention this one. This is a relatively new course the skills that really focus on power to 4.6 out of five And it's for beginners, of course. Of course. One is about preparing data with Excel. Next, an introduction to Power BI modeling and Power BI data analysis. And this in power by creating, designing, and a final capstone project. And in the last course for the PLF 300 exam, If you do decide to take it. The main benefit of this course who owns Power BI, and it's going to help you The downside is that you'll definitely other courses, for example, It doesn't really cover those aspects BI But still really useful All right, next up, by Andrew, a very popular instructor I mean, look at the 4.9 review. It's for beginners looking to break into a course are just two months, It comes with three main courses advanced learning algorithms For this one, it's more interesting to So you're going to build machine supervised models. You will apply the best practices as well as deal You'll also build and train and you'll do a lot more stuff. The point of this course isn't to make you but rather give you a nice introduction of machine learning. And then you can continue from there The certificate looks great as well So if you want to move more towards for machine learning. ML and A.I. skills are highly in demand. It's a top quality course and one of their most famous teachers and deep learning A.I., and it's available It's also really nice to, that's generally difficult So I highly recommend this course. All right. Let's move on to number seven. This one is slightly different, but I need to include this one The IBM Data engineer To be honest. There are not that many students but a 4.6 rating from these people, And I think it's an untapped opportunity No specific programing skills are required or 10 hours per week. We have an introduction to the field and more specifically, And this one was actually included like a few of these other courses, between the data scientist, they download this data engineer, Next, a Python project for Data to Relational databases and Relational Of course, five is about skill and Python, a course about relational database and data pipelines, which are very, Then we have some data warehousing and finally some big data They are really throwing in a lot And finally, Now, what about the pros I think it's a very comprehensive course, too many things in this course, as a data engineer. You know, it doesn't cover the exact skills, and then it kind of covers The engineering is a very exciting field And what I don't like job ready in less than five months as a data engineer, I haven't seen it myself very hard to land it the engineering role This seems like a little bit of a stretch, unfortunately, All right, we're nearly there. But first, This course is over. 1.5 million students enrolled, 4.8 stars in total from over 200,000 people. Super popular course at only 10 hours And the purpose of this course but then it gets more and more advanced and the focus is on analyzing data The course Next data structures in Python using Python to access web data. Finally, databases with Python processing and visualizing I think it's a great course. Professor Shook and Perfect for Beginners their Python knowledge from scratch What I will say though, I recommend combining it with like with three schools or something I did take a part of this course and I kind of realized and not as much practice but the videos can be very helpful that you don't necessarily You also have to learn the I'm going to leave a link and if you're considering I promise you that in the future for starting today. That's all for this video. Have an amazing week, guys,