This is against all the rules! Russia cannot be so rich and sanctions! Russian industry and farms should thoughts of an average foreigner, who has watched Russia! Your brainwashing news is your reality! And our reality is prosperity and My dear viewers, this is Marina and channel Festival I have ever visited!!! Foodies from all this cheese festival! It's really fantastic! I've been meaning to visit this great cheese look at this huge territory. And so many right now, because after just few minutes exhibition. I'm great cheese eater, you know, my 300 farms, from all over Russia. Honey from Bashkiriya, the best honey in the world ! It's just the start of this festival and can different delicacies! Everything is really very Can I try this bread? Rye bread - traditional Russian. Very tasty! It's made in Russian traditional stove. And what's here? Let's see. Amazing sausages! I asked to try something. I ask for something the most delicious. Okay, pork neck, very tasty. Guys, it's really amazing! If I taste all, that they offer, I will be very made of sawdust. I'm like on the farm, guys! Russians adore festivals! You can see it! How to go inside and how all I do - I do for you. What's here, in this cheese. Everything, everything this sausage. My favorite degustations are unusual. Black cheese! Mmmm, with lemon, guys. It's Mariy El,it's a republic of Russia - Mariy El. They say, thay have the Let it be like this. Mmmm, it's you don't have Reggiano Parmeggiano, it's here! Do you remember my videos from Yakutia? I So, I found it here, at this exhibition, have a Truth be told, everything is unbelievable and Because of huge territory, huge space world! I need your help, guys. Welcome This is only the second Pavilion and I am this. I will be crying all the time! Tell me the truth, my dear viewers, and watering again, when you see all these Treasures? Long long lines everywhere, What do you think, am I going to try this fish? I think, it's something extraordinary! Guys, this is sturgeon. If you be crazy, like me, because all these My video will be lasting for 3 hours Even for me, it's Why do I say, even for me? Because I'm used to visit such festivals. But even for me really amazing and terrific. And I want to is crying and I'm not going to try delicious And this is goat cheese. Different Both cheeses are fantastic, atmosphere of a Fest! And I would like to try this. Parmeggiano? Yes! Real Reggiano Parmiggiano? From Italy? No, it/s Russian Parmiggiano! Alyona, nice is the best place for celebrating birthday! Have a look at this! Would you like to try something? Prosciutto Crudo. Don't envy, guys! Please, don't without you. But I will tell you, how is it - to live Exactly after 5 minutes, my face will be bigger than camera. What can I do? My dear Festival, because I don't know what to today. By the way I decided to buy for 100 grams. Not cheap, for sure, but very Tuimen markets, so, I It's normal tradition in Russia to hold at the same time today a wine festival is held is held in Moscow. You can visit all of Let's go further. Another Pavilion and too much people again! I Oh, hello, where you from? Nice to see you. Okay, thanks a lot. Oh cake! The name of this cake Cake with the sour cream and let's see what's inside. I want to try, I This is for me! Thanks a lot! Very tasty, guys, I have no words again. It's with the honey and sour cream and... this is cake to die for! I have wonderful idea! First of all, you can the favorite wine, buy it and come here and try It draws me like a magnet, you know, because all this is perfect. Will you The best sweets because it's nuts with candes are covered by delicious yogurt Cranberry in yogurt, let's Oh, my God... Cashew covered by dill sauce... Very strange, but interesting taste. A real dill! Almond in Blackberry Russians can't live at this handmade homemade cakes. something? Cake with pumpkin and with berries Girls say, this one is the best. You know what's inside? Without sugar! It's great! As for beetroot- chocolate? Rather good, but I think And now, guys, I'm not going to explain exactly, what does it mean. It's Russian please, what is this? I'm great fan of yogurts I'm asking for the best Great! Let's do it together, something. Guys, it's new level, next Level! I didn't sugar. It's better than wine, champagne vodka and lifestyle. Guys I was sure, that nothing can I haven't ever tried. Do you know, what's butter with cream. To cook it, you have for 5 days. 5 days, guys!!! If you have Russian I want to try it. It's very interesting, very A little bit weird taste, but you can cook, you can fry steak, using this whey butter. and I don't know what else. Interesting taste, halwa. I don't know, what to start with, very full, but I think I will try something I think, this is the last dish for today. And guys, you can buy all guys. Very very fresh sunflower seeds halwa! Great! The taste of Russian nature, really. different very very interesting characters. With different amazing things, handmade delicious farm food. I think, it's enough see something else. I know that of farm without animals. Let's see some My dear friends, I couldn't stop a real life, right here right now. And about you? Here are the links