Let's play a game. Imagine this situation: you're interrogating a defector who is ready to tell you all his secrets. As the head of the CIA, I'm sure that there's a pretty bulky file prior to his presidency, I'd love to be able to have Do the Russians have something on him that they could use or undermine his support At the beginning of 2024, Ukraine was struggling In 2024, On the campaign trail, Donald Trump has threatened and to stop supporting NATO Allies I remember the head of a country said: &quot;Does that mean &quot;you will not be there?&quot; That's right, that's what it means, The question is, why is he saying this? Who is suggesting these things to him? These are the questions and I'm sure continues to ask. When he was president, what is it that he wanted to share that he didn't want anybody Answering this question on a labyrinthian operation It started 40 years ago in the final years of the Cold War. At the time, Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin There are still some gray areas but some people I was in charge around the world. I had several hundred people Putin was one of my subordinates. Was Donald Trump controlled by the KGB? We did know something about him. If you think you know you don't. The name that I'm carrying now That's an American Jewish kind of name, but I wasn't born as Jack Barsky. They acquired a bona fide who had passed away at the age of 11. When I was 26, I was offered a job by the KGB eventually going to the United States. In Moscow, under Andropov, I was trained This was like the dream, the crown jewel of the KGB. Everyone wanted to be an illegal. There was a lot of romanticism I can understand why Putin Like his colleagues, Putin dreamed of being part of the elite, to be infiltrated in the West into the US. We primarily focused to the point Apparently, Putin was considered so the job that he did in Dresden Putin didn't go to the US and instead ended up In the KGB, and its mindset. Posted to Leningrad for four years, Kalugin was a legendary master spy, the youngest general in KGB history. He was the head of Soviet espionage I'll probably sit this way Yes, that's perfect. In the mid-1980s, at a time when his country At that time, the KGB's main target That was really an extraordinary tension. It was the height of the Cold War. The US was rearming, supporting Afghan rebels deploying missiles in Europe, and launching the Star Wars program. All of this was driven the most anti-communist There was nothing good about Reagan. This was an uncontrollable and he was viewed by the Soviet leadership It's always felt that was a plan However, there were some weaknesses Absolutely right. The illegals primarily followed I would not talk but during my time in the United States, I came to the United States with a plan First, I went to college. Then I started working I had to inject myself very carefully so as not to show Jack Barsky's mission which broke with previous methods. &quot;Stop working in the old way.&quot; &quot;Make a huge effort to recruit Americans.&quot; &quot;Don't just work with people To this end, Jack Barsky infiltrated close to the Reagan administration, where his mission In 1987, he married a woman and they started a family. He was assigned a new mission. The KGB wasn't only interested but also in the business world, which was traditionally close Then there was a plan B: start a company. The plan was to funnel money about $10 million. The KGB knew how to do that. At that point, money talks. I would have to learn I was going to join a country club. People at high levels if you had a high standing in society. That's a long game, a very long game, but it's possible. There's a lot of coverage in here. Was a wealthy businessman Oh, absolutely. Actually, when I worked in the KGB, business people were very important because they often had access and also to business relations To identify suitable profiles, the KGB provided its agents &quot;Are arrogance, &quot;among the subject's character traits?&quot; -That's nice, I love you too. -Thank you. This is the man, Donald Trump, the flamboyant New York At the age of 39, Donald Trump has become presiding over a real estate empire Nothing escaped Soviet intelligence. Reports in the Wall Street Journal stated The Trump Organization confirmed today that it is in meetings with bankers One of the issues was on the Taj Mahal, Kenneth McCallion, investigated the businessman at the time. They had taken enough losses and other failed companies. Therefore, he was in desperate need It's getting a little ridiculous This was around the time Russian oligarchs given the instability of the country. Meanwhile, Donald Trump Over the next few years, around a third of his apartments with links to Russian organized crime, in particular, the dreaded Semion Mogilevich. Assuming that it was known to the KGB that Mr. Trump was always operating I think he may have been vulnerable. We know something. If I'm sitting in Moscow, and I'm looking to get one of those Trump was known. He was also a womanizer In 1987, the Soviet authorities via the daughter During a diplomatic get-together, Personally, I don't think which is the operational means of the KGB. However, I think the KGB &quot;Dear Mr. Trump, &quot;The Soviet Agency for Tourism, &quot;has expressed interest &quot;to construct a hotel.&quot; The Intourist agency, was controlled by the KGB. The golden rule was to find something to the person in a positive way. Trump had the project so they facilitated This is how they brought people together. However, when he was in Moscow, He went out with a few prostitutes KGB cameras Do you think I would not rule it out. I would not share details, all foreigners, particularly those would be under control, as much as they could. All this was documented. It could be used 10, 15, if and when the person in question One thing was for certain. Barely had he returned from the USSR, and while discussions on the tower block the developer, who had never been involved made a surprise declaration. Developer Donald Trump The question arose in The New York Times, and The Boston Globe It said: &quot;America should stop paying &quot;that can afford to defend themselves.&quot; In his attack, and the bane of the Soviets, NATO. Looking at their payments to NATO, they're totally disproportionate Was Donald Trump controlled by the KGB? No, but we did know something about him. What did you know? It's something Is it because No, no. There are some things I know or knew that I never really talk about publicly. Donald Trump says he could negotiate with the Soviet Union. A little wave at the press Some people laugh and hype could work Okay, come on now. Trump never got to build Four years later, For the Americans, Numerous KGB spies were arrested. Jack Barsky was unmasked. I could have made friends at high levels. I thank God today that this failed because I would have become Barsky cooperated with the FBI. In return, far away from the new Russia. In Moscow, the KGB men determined to take revenge and to continue their Cold War In 1998, Putin, a former minor agent, was named head Those who weren't hardliners, were sidelined. I was chosen to become the chief but there was some resistance. The man who took over, called me a traitor. Ever since, I had no choice Two years later, in 2000, Fifteen years later, Putin is plotting and thus reconstitute The Obama administration since Putin annexed Crimea in 2014. Therefore, but to weaken In the US, attention turned and a surprising candidate. The real estate developer was supported by the conservative People are tired, they're just tired I think what people want today... Donald Trump hadn't yet made any statement It's better than most politicians, -Sorry. I'm visiting from Russia. -My question... Putin is a good friend of Obama. -My question... If you were elected president, especially in relation to my country? One of the worst things is if Russia ever gets driven to China. I believe I would get along Okay? However, Trump was still Seven months out from the elections, he was behind Hillary Clinton and a thorn in the side of the Kremlin. Just as Donald Trump Peter Strzok took over in charge of countering Russian espionage. The department was much smaller as Russian spies When I joined the FBI, It was nothing at all In May 2016, a worrying event Hackers had managed to get into the Democratic Party's They stole emails and private messages and members of her team. The following month, the FBI found out had been approached by a Russian agent. The Russian government named George Papadopoulos, saying: &quot;Hey, we have information &quot;and embarrassing to Hillary Clinton.&quot; Then they made an offer The FBI decided US intelligence agencies believe hacked into the computers belonging Anyway, a spokesman for the Kremlin The head of the CIA to warn him of the Russian maneuvers I was in the Trump Tower in early June and sat down with Donald Trump to give them a briefing on the extent Donald Trump listened to the briefing. He was very skeptical. I think he kept trying He kept saying I think he was interested how we knew what we knew, which really worried me, because I was very concerned whether they be technical Quite frankly, The FBI opened an investigation suspected of collusion It was run by Peter Strzok. I was not prepared for that. I don't think anybody was prepared for the type of interaction Russian agents of influence, and the people in In my mind, that had not existed and had not been seen The investigation revealed working for one of the candidates for the presidency had been having suspicious dealings These included his political advisor, his national security advisor, and even his campaign director, Paul Manafort. The FBI received some crucial information Kenneth McCallion, who was now a lawyer. Paul Manafort had supposedly linked to the Russian We were able to follow the money trail, so we turned our evidence over to the FBI. The third silent partner The Russian godfather of godfathers, who was one of the first investors was suspected of having started This led to an American associate His father was a fairly high-up lieutenant in the Mogilevich Felix Sater was working in Trump Tower, Thank you, sir. Trump certainly would have known Bye, everybody. This is perhaps the heart Money. It is Felix Sater who suggests to Trump that they can build and get the approval of Vladimir Putin, which is something Trump got all excited. This was during the presidential campaign. While he was running for president, was secretly trying to get Putin that could make him That's a good economic never to say a bad thing An easing of tensions from a position of strength only, is possible, absolutely possible. In the months leading up to the election, that they would see their candidate He was rocked by a huge scandal. A shocking video of Donald Trump bragging about sexually assaulting women. You can do anything. Grab them by the... It remains to be seen whether Donald Trump's campaign from the video that is sending shockwaves. I was talking to the head and this person was distraught. He said: &quot;Well, it's over, However, WikiLeaks suddenly makes a dump that shifts the attention back to embarrassing things rather than Donald Trump. Clinton's camp facing of hacked emails released by WikiLeaks. The CBS News Battleground Tracker think Clinton has different motives The hacking carried out was now revealed by WikiLeaks, dealing a fatal blow In a tight-fought election, Donald Trump was elected president I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear... I, Donald John Trump, do solemnly swear... The office of President The office of President As Trump celebrated his victory, visiting one of his I will never forget what you have done Working with you You have been an example for me. For the cause, All this will go with me in life, The best of health to you all. When Russia wants to do it can do it very quietly. The question remains then, in a way that would very clearly I think the Russians that they were very interested so that if Trump were to be elected, I think they wanted to be able from that assistance. Seeing the White House over whom he had control was undoubtedly an achievement However, would turn out to be more difficult. It was unknown territory The president who entered the White House A very strong voice. Trump had to get rid of his entourage, who were too visibly compromised He wisely surrounded himself who embodied Good morning, Mr. President. The intelligence community has never faced such a diversity I want to thank He recruited John Bolton, We'll do a fantastic job. -I appreciate you joining us. The allegations about Trump's collusion made Trump paranoid about the allegations that he was elected It made him very nervous about undertaking anything When Trump met Putin he was clearly uncomfortable. Nice to be with you. The new president Very little happened at the lunch. Trump rephrased The annexation of Crimea was illegitimate. Despite Trump's campaign promises, the Americans did not lift and, in fact, increased them. Trump allowed his administration to sell The American president as he found himself under the threat which occupied Given all those connections, is it likely that Donald Trump and had every intent to help make sure that he could I would rather not answer other than to tell you would have him work with anyone. One other question. Was he directly involved of the Trump Tower in Moscow? The answer is yes. Around 15 people in Trump's circle by the Russian state. Do you swear that the testimony shall be the truth, the whole truth, so help you God? I swear. The idea that an advanced, would be inserting themselves to undermine the will There is no greater responsibility The way we do that, the underpinning of what we are As Peter Strzok prepared to testify, Political chaos in the US for the former KGB agent. Putin was certain of the American president. Sir, do you or the Russian government on President Trump or his family? I have heard these rumors from President Trump's visit to Moscow. It is hard for me Every US intelligence agency has concluded President Trump, who do you believe? If anyone watched Peter Strzok and I was in Brussels watching it, It was a disgrace to our country. You would say Thank you very much. In front of Putin, Trump attacked the FBI's head Within the committee, Trump supporters attempted to sabotage As we continue our investigation, prior to his current assignment, Mr. Strzok, when you're talking how terrifying it would be for him to win, No, Mr. Gowdy, I wasn't. I do not have bias. You're talking about the impeachment -The idea that... After a 20-year-long career, accused of political bias. Unable to prove Trump's complicity the investigative committee than implicate Yes, I'm extremely disappointed. I understood was to do It looks like, for whatever reason, or was done on a very small... Looking at a couple of avenues, I think that was unfortunate. Even if he no longer Trump remained under fire The former KGB agent During the G20 summit in Helsinki, he insisted on meeting the American Many people thought during the one-on-one meeting. Putin knew perfectly well that Trump, could not be seen to be indebted to him When you deal with hard men like Putin, Putin played on that. I thought he saw Trump as an easy mark. I think it helped Putin's obsession, He put the idea into Trump's head which had caused him so much trouble, It was Ukraine who had supposedly hacked Trump wanted to believe, this unlikely scenario, which enabled him of his collusion with Russia. Why did the FBI never take the server? Why haven't they taken the server? Where is the server? I want to know where the server is With that being said, Thank you. Thank you very much. He heard stories in the 2016 election Trump had decided that her famous server A short time later, a businessman claiming that he had key information. Trump sent his personal lawyer They were so eager that they were interacting who had been announced as agents, not suspected, The man claimed With documents to back up his claims, They were enough to destroy Democrat Joe Biden, who was to challenge him in the elections Joe Biden had allegedly been corrupted that his son Hunter In the summer of 2019, Trump's lawyer informed him Volodymyr Zelenskyy was hiding proof of Biden's corruption. When Zelenskyy prevailed, I did hear Putin ridicule him and he played on Trump's suspicions He was hearing all these theories. To me, it didn't make much sense. Had Trump been duped, or was he knowingly doing We can't know. However, the fact is... He wanted something back from Zelenskyy. Yes, you can hook him up. You tell me when. How are you? Mr. President, thank you very much. It's an honor... I was at the White House I listened to it as I typically listened with foreign leaders, and I was very surprised. Trump: &quot;Congratulations Zelenskyy: &quot;We worked hard for this.&quot; The president: &quot;There's a lot of talk about Biden's son.&quot; &quot;Whatever you can do &quot;Mr. Giuliani, He essentially began threatening until Zelenskyy and other information. Thank you. So long, thanks. Goodbye, president. Immediately afterward, Trump ordered the suspension that Congress had allocated to Ukraine. Zelenskyy was desperately in need of it, but he was powerless to do anything just like the hacking affair, I don't have any indication We never spoke about it and never indicated concern if they did have it. The revelation of this conversation of Donald Trump's time in office, Putin could not help him win again However, division in the US as he prepared his big project. During the last year, in helping the Ukrainians prepare not to include what ultimately resulted Putin considered himself A skilled manipulator, The former KGB agent hadn't foreseen the level supported by the delivery Bogged down, Vladimir Putin once again resorted I congratulate all those such unique operations. Thank you and congratulations. As in the days of the Cold War, Russian intelligence hopes once again This is the final battle. With you at my side, we will expel the warmongers We will drive out the globalists. Putin is banking To get Donald Trump re-elected, how much money is that worth? It's worth an extraordinary amount. What are your limits I would argue In this way, Putin hopes to halt and to negotiate Trump's personality He is manipulatable in terms of his ego and in terms of his fascination I think because he himself To have a president under his influence is the finest operation carried out launched on a headlong rush