Han Sheng 7 years We are finally getting married today Really beautiful Han Sheng: Am I beautiful? Ah Mei This is Han Sheng's It's been seven years since I last met you under the white moonlight Han Sheng, can you please not answer his call today? What happened to Qiqi? Don't worry, I'll be there soon. immediately Today is such an important day So many people are Could you please not leave me alone? Didn't you hear it just now? Qingqing has something to do I have to go there right away You wait for me at home. I'll be right back Day by day Why does he have so many things to do? Our Love Anniversary He calls you away with one phone call Go have a candlelight dinner with him Have you ever thought about That time he had a stomachache and couldn't eat I finished my meal with him and came back to accompany you, didn't I? Stomachache He has stomachache every day You promised me a concert half a year ago He called you away again. That day I was alone at night The cold wind blew all night Did You Know He sprained his ankle. I have to go to the hospital with him. Can you understand something? Can a concert be more important than someone's life? And didn't he come back to pick you up later? Last month, on my birthday, I waited for you at home all day. From morning till night You promised you would come back to have dinner with me Where are you? Tower Striker His cat is lost. I helped him find it for a long time. His life is more important than mine. Now even his cat is taller than me. My whole family is important. Can you stop being unreasonable? Now he's more important than our wedding again, right? He is outside now In the hospital He did it on purpose Xu Xinran Your mind is too complicated Qingqing is not that kind of person She is much simpler than you. He Aisheng Are you really leaving? You really have to leave If you leave, don't come back Come back to cancel I'll find a chance to fill it in for you later. I love I have loved you for 7 years. in the end But I will never hear a call from Bai Yueguang Xu Xinran After all, I am still the white moonlight. He Hansheng's seven-year obsession I Xu Xinran let it go This time never look back ah After being He Hansheng's bootlicker for 7 years, he is down again Get lost Alas, a slut who was slept with by my brother for 7 years Why are you pretending to be so noble? You dare to hit me You are just a slut who has been trained for 7 years. snort You are not even as good as Xia Qingqing's toe At least they know how to respect themselves. Yo what's up I hit the pain point. Hey, why don't you follow me? I, Xu Xinran, will never marry He Hansheng in this life If you break this oath He Han will not die a good death Xu Xinran came over and gave me a head massage Xu Xinran Xu Xinran gentlemen Miss Xu hasn't come back since yesterday. This is happening again They said they would hold a wedding ceremony What on earth is he doing? Do I have to coax him? He Hansheng, we broke up separate Are you willing to give up? He always comes back obediently. Book a ticket to attend an international conference in France Mr. Xu didn't come back all night. Aren't you worried? After all, you have been together for 7 years I looked over here She's had enough. I will come back Don't mind her. Oh yeah You tell Xu Xinren I only gave him a week. Otherwise, don't come back. Contact Xu Xin Let him go to the Starlight Restaurant and wait for me. Mr. He, no one answered Do you want to call again? So there needs to be a thread Walk back to the villa. Where is Xu Xinran? Ah, Miss Xu, since that day Never came back I called her a lot. She doesn't answer Sir, I am very worried about Miss Xu. Will she be upset? My He family is in its heyday She wanted to be the wife of the He family so much Is she willing to die? Almost there Xu Xinran, you are too willful. Block me Check if Xu Xinran is from Dongqiao Mr. and Ms. Xu Xiangcheng hometown So what? Go pick her up. yes Wait a moment I have finished reading this document. Go with you I want to see how tough he is. Miss Xia Mr. He is going to pick up Miss Xu Xu Xinran you bitch They're all gone Why is it still haunting? I haven't had such a comfortable sleep in a long time. It turns out that staying away from dog men is the hard truth Today I made fried pork with peppers No more worrying about that dog man not eating spicy food Mr. He, this is it. You go down and see Miss Xu, Mr. came and asked me to pick you up. You kneel down and beg me I'll go back with you Ms. Xu, you have to understand The relationship between you and your husband is not equal. Sir, let me pick you up. I'm already giving you face. You keep on being a demon. It will only backfire Be self-aware how Xia Qingqing provides you with reading Let you get out of the mountains Just to let you speak up for him. This has nothing to do with Miss Xia Mr. Xu The gentleman doesn't buy your hard-to-get tactics. He doesn't care as much as you think. A canary must have the awareness of a canary Don't be too proud. So you have to know when to stop. Otherwise you are playing with fire I have self-respect as a human being, but I still need you to teach me a lesson. You are just a dog beside He Han You are not qualified to talk to me about self-esteem shrew As expected, only Miss Xia is worthy of Mr. And you are not even as good as Miss Xia's hair Miss Xia is so gentle Yes, they are turtles with green beans Of course it's a perfect match You see What is that You said I If you send your face to He Hansheng You're probably not even qualified to be a dog next to him. I'll say it one last time He Hansheng and I are over From now on I don't want to be with him anymore Anyone around him There is a little bit of involvement You'd better keep your word Never come back to He Hansheng Only Miss Xia is worthy of you, sir. And you are not worthy of He Hansheng If you don't leave, the dog will bite you. Be careful not to kick the dog to eat shit Crow's Mouth ah Mr. Xu doesn't want to go back She didn't say a word to me Ignore me I've been advising you for a long time. She didn't even look at me. Sir, why don't you just forget it? It's better for him to be so indifferent. Taking yourself too seriously You can't even do this little thing. Go to the HR department tomorrow to get enough self-blame Mr. He, I'll try again. Ms. Xu It never ends, right? I'm sorry Miss Xu. I just had a bad attitude. You are a big man who doesn't remember the mistakes of small people. Just forgive me That gentleman still cares about you. Just come back with me, okay? Assistant Qin is really flexible. Are you deaf? Didn't you hear what I just said? He Hansheng and I are over Get out. You are not welcome here. Ms. Xu go out Xu Xu hey hey hey hey oh Okay, Miss Xu. Then I'll wait for you at the door. Change of mind All have abilities It's really haunting Looks like I have to run away. Mr. Miss Xu ran away What ran away Xinran, why are you doing this to me? Have I ever been sorry for you? Sorry, the user you dialed is currently unavailable. Mr. He, go back now. Not knowing what is good for you He will come to me What Korean businessman waited at his door all night? No, I can't just sit there and wait for death. I heard from Doctor Chen that you don't look well. I made ginseng soup specially for you. I'll feed you. Is the wound better? Brother Han Sheng is here You will always be able to turn danger into safety Mr. said that Miss Xu found Walk Brother Han Sheng I want to go too After all, Sister Xinran was angry because of me. I want to apologize to her You are just not feeling well Running back and forth Rest at home, dear. Help me book the fastest flight to the cinema Thump thump thump How come you're having so much fun here? ah Yeah Why don't you answer the phone? The previous number is gone. Go back and re-hold the wedding Now pack up and follow me back to the capital Mr. He, we have broken up. Because I canceled the wedding. Qingqing's brother saved my life Before he died, he entrusted it to me I can't let anything happen to him. yes You gave all your preference and responsibility to Xia Qiqi What about me? I deserve to be abandoned by you again and again. Ignored by you Your people scolded me No self-respect Xu Xinran, no one scolds you Okay, don't make it difficult for me. Come home with me I'll put down my work and come pick you up in person What else do you want? Your dignity is not so noble that I want it so much And said since you are here Then I'll say it again in person We are over The end means we broke up. That's all I don't want you anymore I don't want you anymore Do you understand? Don't want me Are you willing to do it? Are you willing to do it? Willing to What is there for me to miss? I'm at work Brother, I'm so scared Can you come hug me? How many times Xia can call you away with just one phone call today Don't you know that he is afraid of thunder? yes He is afraid of thunder Thunder hahahahahaha He said Qingqing, he is not as strong as you He is weak and cannot be stimulated. Don't say anything Now you look like a joke to me Xu Qingshan, why have you become so fussy? So unreasonable It's my fault that I'm like this now. It has nothing to do with you. So we broke up. Why do you care about what we look like and what we do now? I Love You I regret it so much Please get out now. I will give you a more grand wedding Is this okay? I think Xia Qingqing will like this wedding more. Xu Xinran, stop making trouble You know I'm busy We need to do this for such a small matter Is it like this? roll roll Xu Xinran has changed You used to be so well-behaved and obedient I took a flight here last night and didn't even look back. Even if you like to do There has to be a limit, right? Let's go Come home with me He Hansheng, we are over Where did you and I come from? Chen Yin also made soup at home Still waiting for you I don't care Okay, if you don't want to leave, then I'll go. You're overthinking Just for fun I found that I couldn't reach my hands anymore. Just bear with it, I will call your white moonlight to save you Xu Xinran He Hansheng, this is what you deserve Xu Xinran Xu Xinran Xu Xinran Do you really want to accuse me of being cold-blooded? I haven't even dialed the number yet. You came Xia Qingqing came quickly You listen carefully Only you like to torture brother sea cucumber This world Only a bitch like you likes to torture me so much Why are you speaking so foul language? Who is the bitch? Such rude words No wonder brother sea cucumber doesn't like it What is literature and art talking about with dogs? I was flattering you by saying you were a bitch. Bitch is a person first I don't want this dog man anymore You pick it up and play with it. Xiangxiang, you finally came back Brother Hansheng Are you okay? gentlemen Mr. Sea cucumber brother I bought you some millet porridge. Please try it. I'll do it myself gentlemen What's wrong I'll redo it later. Oops Mr. You must be missing the stomach-nourishing porridge made by Miss Xu. I can't do that. He usually gets up at 4 a.m. I also looked for the traditional Chinese medicine recipe. I can't figure it out I have been raising a stomach for 3 years Finally feeling better Even if it's hard, it's worth it Taste it just out of the pot Are you tired of eating every day? Han Sheng, where are you? My chest hurts. I'll take it right away ah Where is Xu Xian Ranren? He went to Huacheng to play Xu Xian dyes you Really cruel heart Go to Flower City Go to Mr. Hwaseong Seoul Brother What are you doing? Do you even want to give up your body for him? I will worry about you You are not feeling well Let Qingran take you back I'm not going back Your troubles are caused by me I want to personally apologize to Sister Qingran If only she could forgive me I can even kneel down Let me say it a second time Sir, Miss Xu is clearly playing hard to get. She doesn't even want her own self-esteem. You accompany her to torment yes You gave all your preference and responsibility to Xia Qiqi What about me? I deserve to be abandoned by you again and again. Ignored by you Being scolded by your people I don't know how to respect myself. So that's what you usually think. Sea cucumber brother He certainly didn't This is between me and him. It's your turn to point fingers. Sorry sir I signed the contract Brother Han Sheng What happened to you today? Sister Xian She's just making a fuss. She always comes back obediently. Your body is important now You can't run anymore. Qin An sent her back good Xu Xinran, wait for me. Don't think it's him who's taken away Only mine Who is number 9? I asked me You are lucky Free today yes As expected, I became lucky after leaving Lairen Airport. Please come in Yeah, come here. Miss, please follow me. Come inside I'm alone No box required Just find me a window seat. Well, please come in. You are a dog-skin plaster, right? Don't you want to eat steak? I can afford this steak myself. Xu Xinran, I didn't agree to break up I agreed that you should go find your Did I agree to the moonlight? You're still thinking about this You're too fussy. Just give someone a taste of their own medicine. He Hansheng, isn't he? You can't stand it. How could I bear it before? Xu Xingran, don't go too far. Let me go, let me go Xu Xinran, you hate me so much OK very good I didn't think carefully about the wedding banquet. You've been wronged I won't do that next time. I promise you Give you a bigger next time The next wedding won't be you and me. Who do you want to marry? Anyone can kill you Don't do this I'm sorry. I was wrong. It doesn't matter I'm not getting married Xu Xinran How many times have I told you Qinqin is just my sister I don't have any sexual thoughts about her. Why don't you believe it? I don't have any feelings for you now. Why don't you believe it? Being jealous quiet I just want you to be a man. Let's stop bothering each other after we break up, okay? I'm pestering you Who has been entangled with whom in these 7 years? Don't forget that you were the one who provoked me first. Xiner Don't shout my name I'm really sick Your voice The most beautiful sound is when the strait is silent. nausea You think I'm disgusting Open the door Otherwise I'll call the police. Have your people open the door Sit down and eat I won't argue with you about what happened just now Don't touch me. I won't eat a bite of your He family's food again. Xu Xinran He Hansheng You and I have come this far We can never go back to the way we were before. Do you understand? Because I think Xia Qingqing is disgusting I think you are evil Feel our feelings It's such a pity Open the door Let me out Not open I won't let you leave good Do you really think I can't leave? before I don't want to leave I thought you hated me That's why I stayed Now I want to go I can go Wrong, my illusion How did he change? Stay away from me from now on Stop annoying me. Otherwise, I will settle all old and new accounts together. Including your good sister Xia Qingqing You threaten me How did you touch your anonymity? So, for your good sister Don't hang around in front of me anymore. What are you doing to me? Let me go. Let me go Let me go, let me go Don't move again I'm not sure in this public What will I do to you? What is wonderful What do you want to do? go home drive separate I don't allow Also disagree He Hansheng, you are still so selfish You only have yourself in your heart No one else I hate you, I dislike you, I'm disgusted by you But you love me too, don't you? Be less sentimental I don't love you anymore You you love me I love you Regain your energy first Find a chance to escape Xu Xinran, how did we become like this? Who made our little brother unhappy? I'm going to beat him up Sweets can cure everything Only children know You are my little child You said that no matter what happens I will always be by your side We will always be together I want you to be my friend forever Xue Xinri Why don't you keep your word? He Hansheng, stay away from me I'm so miserable, yet you can sleep? Your emotions can no longer affect me. He Hansheng, you're a pervert You lunatic, you're never going to stop. The whole villa is mine. Where can you escape to? He Hansheng's forced melon is not sweet What to do Don't come over here. Don't come over here. Ahhh We have been rude to each other countless times on this bed I want to see how you can be so rude. I also want You are crazy Yeah, I'm crazy. ah ah doctor I hate you Mr. Xu Don't you like me doing this to you the most? You know it was before The trick of playing hard to get becomes meaningless if it is overdone. My patience is limited Whether you like it or not You can only be my woman in this life Fall in love I don't love you anymore Mr. Xu Don't forget Who was the one who tried so hard to get into my bed? Miss Xia and Mr. Xu in the bedroom Haven't been out for a long time. They may Xu Xinran Why did you come back? Why did you take my brother Han Sheng away? I shouldn't have been kind to you 7 years ago Since you are unkind Don't blame me for being unfair Give him this to drink. benefit Indispensable You Xu Xinran You just wait to be abused. We Xinxin don't drink. You are her boyfriend Great! Xinran is so hot Help Xu Shiyuan I didn't expect you to be so mean. You actually gave me drugs? No, I really don't. I really didn't sprinkle that medicine. I don't know what happened, Your Majesty. Then you keep showering me. When you know you are wrong, Walk He Haisheng, do you really think you are such a popular person? You thought I wanted to sleep with you? No, you're overthinking. I'm just playing with you Then you got addicted. People saw you bending down. You're still making excuses. Did you see it yourself? Believe what others say I told you that you wouldn't believe it Because you don't believe it He Hansheng You're a complete coward. You've always thought of me like this. I told you the truth but you can't accept it Have you ever thought about having a love relationship? You only come to see me on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month Am I a dog? You only think of me when you have nothing to do Xu Xinruan You looked indifferent when you saw me I shouldn't have taken the exam. Consider your feelings I shouldn't be soft on you. Then I have to say thank you to you. Come on the 1st and 15th of every month Come to bed As soon as I got into bed, your white moonlight called me away Then why don't you just go find your white moonlight? I really spoil you. I can't go home. Don't touch me my shoes are dirty Now we're going the wild route, right? Okay, continue. I like your expression now. Come on Don't continue otherwise. Yuxin What should I do with you? Don't pretend to be wronged I said just let me go Not only are you ungrateful And I feel disgusting Something Brother Han Sheng I feel so bad. My chest hurts. I think I'm having another heart attack. Not a doctor But I need medicine Only when you come, I can be well I'll let Dr. Kang go. Han Sheng Brother Han Sheng Mai Sheng, don't act like a kid It makes our relationship so unclose. No matter what happens, Han Sheng I will always be by your side We will always be together I want you to be my friend forever Haven't you always wanted to break up with Xu Xiangya? how Can't bear to leave Who is reluctant to give up and still stubborn? Hey, ok, ok I was wrong. Don't drink to drown your sorrows. Xu Xinran finally managed to get her stomach in good condition. You want to go to the hospital for gastric perforation again? well Don't mention him if I were Xu Xinran Don't say it's been seven years. I can't hold out with you for seven days. You are my brother Elbows turned outward Have you really forgotten what happened in Hancheng? Today is Han Sheng's birthday I want to give him a surprise Propose to him Xu Xinran, don't mention him To be honest, our Xia Qingqing is the best. Much gentler than Xu Xinran But Xu Xinran is indeed good-looking Although he has a sloppy personality But the body is good Who among the men present here doesn't want this? I'm telling the truth. He except Looks OK Look at you, you have never seen the world. I'll find you some prettier sisters later. Oh good Brother Han Sheng I read online that walnuts are nutritious I have a bad stomach Can I ask my beloved sister to peel a few for me? Qianqian is our guest You knew she had a bad stomach but you didn't prepare any walnuts. Yes I'm ready for a bigger wedding to make it up to him. What does he want? Love again Being teased, being ignored, being looked down upon It will dissipate little by little. You mean he was angry because of Xia Qingqing? That proves that he still has me in his heart. Then everything is still in time Believe what others say I said you never believed it Because you don't believe it You have been wronging me for so many years. He Hansheng, you are a complete coward Help me check something Xu Xinran Open the door Xu Xinran Open the door heavy snow Xu Xinran opens the door Stars, I know you're in there You open the door You open the door. Hello What's going on with you two? Not letting people sleep late at night Keep doing this Be careful, I will call the police to report you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Xiangxiang, I know you won't ignore me You still love me, right? What's wrong with you? Why What about hangover soup? ah I want a hangover soup Mengpo soup is enough for you to drink Get out of here! I'm not your babysitter. Xiang Xiang You were so well-behaved and sensible before You do whatever I tell you to do. Never refute You know that was in the past. I used to think you were a human being. Now they're all dogs. Smile, my head hurts. You deserve it Why are you so heartless? Have you forgotten me after these years of relationship? Love is useful to the right people. Otherwise, you might as well throw it in the trash Xu Xinran, what did I do wrong? Why are you doing this? I have asked someone to investigate the drugging of me. If you are innocent I will give you justice I don't care about your justice. Are you awake now? Mr. Xu, are you sure you can survive without me? I, Xu Xinran, can live well without anyone. Don't take yourself too seriously I was born at the top of the pyramid How many women have rubbed me Don't even look at it And you I have bowed my head and apologized to you What else do you want? Looks like he's awake. The words are still so arrogant Then you stand at the top of your pyramid I can't accommodate a big Buddha like you here roll roll Wake up! No matter what I did before You don't make any noise I am a hundred times better than before. You're getting further and further away from me What went wrong? Am I so reluctant? Is it so difficult for you to go back to the past? Xu Xinran, whether you agree or not This life can only be mine Aunt Chen Feeding medicine Sir Usually these things are sorted by Miss Xu herself. gentlemen Hello, Ms. Xu Is Chen Yi okay? Miss Xu, please come quickly Sir, he is dying. If not, call Xia Qingqing He'll be fine if he comes. Miss Xu, please don't It's too hot. Take medicine. Come on, sir, I'll take you to the hospital. Just go Sir, this is not okay. Let's go to the hospital. Just go Oh, I'm finally back. Hehe, I miss you so much. Come on, you've been abroad for so long and finally came back to see me I heard you were telling everyone that He Han was dead or alive Isn't this what a qualified ex should do? Seeing the humble The stars without internal friction are back I'm so happy I've already said it He Hansheng, that scumbag, is not worthy of me at all Don't mention his bad luck He Hansheng is also unique It actually exhausted all the love of our little sun Those who betray their sincerity should swallow ten thousand Don't mention him. Men can't always rely on Besides, I don't need him. Just based on our words I'll order you half a bowl tonight You, you are so dishonest. So you broke up with me because of another man Why didn't your white moonlight come? Don't we come to places like this just to eat dessert with girls? Check out the scenery Are you following me? Do you know what I went through last night? Now I still want to find another man Come here Hey, wake up, wake up Let go and wake up Heart heart heart heart Heart Heart Heart I'm fine, you go back first He doesn't dare to do anything to me You wait while I go get the key from the boss. I'm not your golden retriever. Don't lock me up I won't let you go Xu Xian, I won't let you go. Xu Xian is not allowed to leave Let me go I won't let you go I really lost you I won't let go, ... He Han Shang never belonged to you I only belong to myself This was the mustard seed at the beginning Return you It's so beautiful. This is the first ring you gave me. I declare that no matter how expensive the ring you give me is, This one is my favorite Xiangxiang, I was wrong I can't live without you No one in this world can't live without anyone else I used to be childish Now you are childish I'm a joke now. Find someone to arrange a wedding that's even grander than before Everything must be of the highest standard Sir, are you going to have a new wedding? With whom? Who else could it be? Who else could it be except Xu Xinren? Please judge immediately Every detail is perfect Miss Xia, I have something to tell you. 33 Xinxin, are you okay? He Han is his mother Xu Xingran, you are quite resourceful Dare to let my son personally pick you up Your son is looking for me I'm not looking for your son. Why are you mad at me? I am doing SPA with my little sister Come over here and give me a foot massage Okay, then you wait. Xinxin, you won't really go, will you? You are such a bad ex-mother-in-law. Aggressive And always bullies you, of course. I used to respect him I serve him entirely because of He Hansheng. Now He Hansheng is nothing. He counts it as your fault. good job Xu Xinran, this damn girl is too much Blocked me You dare to play tricks on me? I waited for two hours in vain. I lost face in front of the sword spirit. Auntie, please don't be angry. How can that little bitch compare to our dear? You and Han Sheng are a perfect match. A match made in heaven What's wrong Han Sheng bullied you Taiyi, it's okay for me to suffer a little injustice But I just feel sorry for Brother Han Sheng I heard that Han Sheng was drunk and went to find him. He was kicked out directly Then I came back and fought for Tong Yun What? This little bitch, wait for me. I want him to look good. Xu Xinran Open the door Open the door for me Xu Xinran Xu Xinran opens the door Na This mother and son have the same virtue Open the door. Open the door. You're just a bunch of idiots. Xu Xindian, you have learned to play tricks, right? Not only did he humiliate my son You dare to play tricks on me? Do you know how embarrassed I was yesterday? Ms. Zhang gave herself the face Not given by others You are ashamed because you have no shame It has nothing to do with me. You call me shameless Hey, you said this yourself. How did you talk to me? You are not presentable. I still want to be the wife of the He family If you want to be my daughter-in-law, you have to listen to me. Serve me well You have to kneel down and apologize Otherwise you won't be able to get in. Entrance I didn't want to enter the He family's door What do you mean Literal meaning Humph, you are playing hard to get, right? Don't So that I can agree to your marriage with my son Get your paws off my face and I won't Oh, ha My son is the best in the entire imperial capital. The youngest person in power Can curry favor with him It is the blessing that your ancestors cultivated for three lifetimes. I don't want this blessing. You keep it for your own use. This is my home Get out, hey, you Aren't you just asking for money? My son won't give it to you. He is a child of destiny. A great man You're not worthy Only a good girl like Qingqing Only then can you enter my He family Then I have helped He Hansheng and Xia Qingqing. Is there anything else you are dissatisfied with? Of course buy no What do you mean You won't marry my son. Not Marrying no Didn't you always want to marry my son? Now you've changed your gender I'm too lazy to bother with you Hey hey hey hey Son, you came at the right time. This jinx won't bother you anymore Don't you always like kissing? Mom will arrange it for you. Who likes to kiss? My son Who asked you to come? Come here early in the morning to play handsomely What are you going to do? Ouch Son, you don't know that I asked him to massage my feet yesterday. He stood me up I was laughed at by my sisters for a long time. He is not a maid. Isn't there a technician for foot massage? Okay, from now on it's not your turn to take care of my affairs. If you come to see him next time, you must go back to East City. For Xu Xinran, you actually want to drive your own mother back to the countryside You are crazy If you don't leave here now I'll take you back to East City right away. I'll just take a bag, okay? Waste Hey, Xixi I'm sorry I apologize to you on behalf of my mother. Xu Xinran: Do we have to do this? Wait a moment Thank you, I knew you would. Thanks Gladly Sister, please don't be angry with Brother Han Sheng, okay? I apologize to you on his behalf. Don't recognize your sister randomly I am the only one in my family A sorry It's all my fault My body is not in good condition That delayed your wedding with Brother Han Sheng. If you really don't have enough energy, just hit me twice But you must not hurt Brother Han Sheng You really hit me No more, no less, exactly two times Brother Han Sheng, I love you so much The green tea flavor is so strong It would be a waste if I didn't open a teahouse. Apologize to Xixi now I apologize, brother Ha Sheng. It was Xu Xinran who hit me Why am I apologizing? Did you call Xu Xinran too? Apologize. Sister Xinran sorry It's all my fault. Don't let anyone send your Bai Yueguang to the hospital He will recover later. Money to send him to the hospital It's Miss Xia, let's go. Brother Han Sheng Wake up, I'm cleaning for you. Don't get stabbed. Hua Ansheng, you are smart now I can see Xia Qingqing's little trick. I'm sorry I've finished sweeping the floor. Listen to me The glass slag has been swept away The scum has not been swept away yet Please sweep yourself out. 1 million RMB received via Alipay Thank you. Let the past be the past. Let's start over, shall we? He Hansheng Without us From now on, I'm the only one living my life. Finally quiet Are you an agent? I want to sell my house Why hasn't Brother Han Sheng come out yet? How could this happen? Miss Xia, shall we still go to the hospital? Where are you going? I'm not dead. I won't let you have an easy time You are very familiar with Xu Xinran You should know what he likes. Tell me I want to tease him Why the scumbag Hey, show me the latest jewelry in your store. Pack all the bags for me. Let's have spicy hotpot tonight He Anshang is becoming more and more capable now He even started breaking into people's homes. There are so many, there must be one you like. A pile of garbage The hairpin I gave you before Are you happy? What do you want now? release Aren't these better than the old rubbish? You send it. Sao What do you want? I want freedom I want freedom without you impossible Monk, please put away your bullshit affection. Stop pretending you're a man. The breakup was so inconclusive I look down on you I installed You were very happy when you received the 1 million yesterday. The money I've spent on you over the years is more than 1 million. All my wages All spent on taking care of your daily life Life Takes Back All Why am I not willing Xu Xinran played hard to get too far Be careful not to play with fire. You're overthinking I don't want to play with you I am the distant future Sorry Star I didn't mean it. Don't touch me You don't like these gifts It's okay. Don't you like steak? Today I pushed away all the memories I'll take you to eat Wang Aisheng doesn't know. I don't like steak It was because you liked So I said I like it too I actually prefer vegetarian noodles. You don't forgive me because you're jealous, right? I will change it later. I'll eat vegetarian noodles with you Ahhh Xu Xinran will not allow you to escape from my palm I don't allow Xu Xinran Okay, the wedding is over. Xu Xinran I know you are inside opening the door Who are you? Xu Xinran Are you sick? This is my new purchase. Replaced someone sick Mr. Xu You are cruel enough Even if I dig three feet into the ground I will find you Sir, you have heated up the rice three times. You should hurry up and eat something. Too filial, right? Give a call to Yi Mei Zhong Xin Bring forward the date for his scar removal I don't believe he will come. It's Xu Xinran Don't let me find you Otherwise you know the consequences Why scar treatment is brought forward Doctor Jin is going on a business trip He's waiting for you inside. Why are you here? Calculate me Smile I'll accompany you for treatment today. Scars can be treated with cold instruments But a dead heart cannot be cured He Lansheng Don't you think what you are doing now is a bit redundant? The equipment here is the best in the world. Thank you. I will be the best to you in the world. As long as you take good care All scars will fade Huo Ansheng I really regret blocking that knife for you. That knife should have been stuck in you Then you You have no right to stab me. Be careful with your hands. I'm fine. I'm fine. Xu Xinran I beat him. I scolded you. This matter is over. Yeah, we're done. So why do you bother to keep pestering me? Xu Xinran: I was not good before No matter how long today I'll be here with you What's wrong Brother Vincent I fine The past is like this scar on my body I don't care anymore You don't have to remember to wash your hands. Don't push your luck. Don't forget it was me The best medical team was transferred from the imperial capital You're already dead. I was hurt because of you and Xia Qingqing I never owe you anything Mr. Xu, you won't let me treat you. I'm afraid I'll see you without clothes. I'm afraid you can't tell good from bad with your dog eyes. Xu Xinran You really want to hurt me like this? The one who hurt me The one who stabbed me It's obviously you Now you are pretending to be an angel in white How can a person be so hypocritical? I really want to heal you. Not my savior Don't pretend to be so great So loving you is my fault, right? Because your love is as cheap as that straw No talent today Whatever happens I'm here with you The belated sincerity is shallower than the grass He Hai is not worthy of true love Miss Xia and Mr. Xu Xinran are inside Do you know what to do? Can Qian'er Don't forget if it weren't for me You are still farming in the poor mountain valley If it weren't for me You can be the president's assistant Everything you have now is given by me You have to remember As a person, you should know how to repay kindness good Brother Han Sheng Doctor Jin is looking for you It seems like I want to talk about Xinran's sister's scar The fun is about to begin Ms. Xu Sir, let me come over. Send you back first Today is Miss Xia's birthday The gentleman hurried over to accompany her. Was it Xia Qingqing who asked you to sow discord? I don't understand what Miss Xu is saying Whose dog are you? Is it He Hansheng's or Xia Qingqing's? you Only Miss Xia and Mr. A match made in heaven You don't deserve sir. A person must have self-knowledge Too much stalking It will only make Mr. hate you more. Then I can only show you something fun. Brother Poseidon You are drunk, I will accompany you Thanks Qingqing is here Brother Poseidon, go to sleep. So, Ms. Xu You have to face reality Qingqing and Mr. are in love with each other. So you were lurking beside He Hansheng An undercover dog for Xia Qingqing Look how skilled he is in administering the drug. Was that incident of mine also his doing? I warn you Xu Qingchang, please stop throwing dirty water on Miss Xia This is urgent It seems I guessed right. That incident was Xia Qingqing Who gave you the courage to be so strong? He said before, I didn't believe it It turns out that he really beat and scolded him behind my back. Sir, what do you want from me? I didn't call you But Miss Xu's scars have healed well. Please don't worry, Mr. He. gentlemen It's Miss Xu. Only then did he scold me I couldn't help it I took heavy measures gentlemen I don't have it. I really don't Lu Jun Check it for me He is in the company What kind of shady shit have you done? Gathering evidence Goudan in jail Mr. I don't I really don't Listen to you believe I said Who instructed you? gentlemen No one instructed me I made my own decision I just can't stand Miss Xu's usual arrogance Bullying us workers Don't treat us as assistants or human beings You are really a ghost Go fast Why this signature? So for Xu Ms. Xu How is the investigation into the drug use going? I didn't find out it's been so many years. All clues are broken You go out first Small Now everything is clear. It was Qin An who sowed discord between them. Please stop being angry with me. So you are innocent We are fine Is it that difficult? He Hansheng Between You and Me You are the culprit all along. Xu Xinran Why don't you believe that I am Qin An? He pretends to obey but actually disobeys Are you still suspecting that there's something going on between Qingqing and me? I've told you countless times. I have only responsibility for her. She's just my sister. You and Xia Qingqing are not good people You have been in cahoots all along. How come you become so cruel now? In the past, you were full of me It will never be like this Cruelty, you know cruelty The one before only knew how to please you Xu Xinran who loves you without knowing how to love herself You have already killed him with your own hands. Isn't he standing in front of us now? How did he die? Okay, stop messing around. Let's get married marry The previous Xu Xinran is dead You want a divorce? Xiaoxia The wedding will be perfect Your favorite ocean theme You said you were a star Want a sea-themed wedding? Say we will be together from now on, no matter where we are No marriage, that's all. Burial at sea Ha ha Xu Xinran Does it hurt? Xu Xingren He Hansheng Every time you left me to go to Xia Qingqing My heart is real Please remember this feeling Five fingers connected to the heart I'm in so much pain I feel like I'm being torn apart sorry Your apology comes out as easily as your love As cheap as the street vendors good I don't deserve it. I don't deserve it. As long as you can forgive me Let me do anything to live up to it A sincere person should keep half of the promise Why did you treat me like this? In the final analysis Only love yourself Xu Xinran I It's always you and Brother Han Sheng The line in my heart that is hard to climb out of Even if I don't make the decision Brother Han Sheng would not choose Still want to get married dream I am happy to go to Shanghai to exchange and learn about things How are you thinking about it? This opportunity is really rare. Professor Dyson has always said You are the most cultured girl he has ever seen. It's just that I haven't been able to contact you in the past few years Principal, I've made up my mind. I decided to go Really It's really been 7 years I wasted my youth for someone who was not worthy Lost myself I missed too many opportunities to see the world. I won't miss it this time. Great! Xu Xiran You are crazy Xu Xinran, what did I say? So determined to me Do you admit that you want to break up? Have you guys been colluding with each other for a long time? You beat me for a man headmaster Walk Xu Xinran, do you want to break up? You want to date another man I tell you Don't even think about breaking up with me in your life. come over Letting go Principal, I'll come by myself. He Hansheng Look at how you look now It's like a candy bar. A 3-year-old kid throwing a tantrum is really ugly Don't go, Xia Xinxin is just pretending She didn't She was just posting pictures of delicious food on her Moments Xu Xinran, look at what you have become. It's really ugly So you are taking revenge on me. revenge There's no need Su Xing, have you already fallen in love with someone else? Is it? Is it? Is it? Yes, I've already fallen in love with someone else. I've changed from loving you to only loving myself Director, please go. I'm not allowed to go I'm not allowed to go Stop pursuing what happened between them. An outsider should not interfere. Xu Xinran, you hate me so much yes sorry Now I'm trying. Not considering your feelings Xu Xinran, are you really going to do this to me? yes No matter how much trouble we had in the past, As long as I stay with you in the car for one night Aren't you fine? Helansheng I am not a broken car stereo Okay, I have to sing for you. Didn't you like this the most before? You want me on you. Leave my mark Stars Stars I love you I love you Mr. He, you don't love Xu Xinran But a woman who can bring you vanity He Hansheng It's getting cold I have a fire and can go by myself You too rise He HanshengHe Hansheng Wake up Okay? I'm sorry I scared you again today. If you feel bad, just cry. I'm not uncomfortable It's all over Every day from now on will be sunny Gladly You are the bird in the sky One day I will spread my wings and fly high When will we go to Magic City? 3 days later Okay Why are you here? It's not for your family. Xu Xingran's story I found it Qin An embezzled money He has taken you all these years Let him pass on the gift to Xu Xingran All embezzled No wonder Xu Xingran misunderstood me Let him spend the rest of his life in jail It's really too big Yeah Look at this This is the truth about you being drugged. Give him this to drink. You will benefit from it So I have wronged him all these years. Hey, where can you find Xu Xin? Thanks Thanks I'm sorry I wronged you back then. You have wronged me in so many things. Which one are you talking about? Actually, I never blamed you for what happened to Xia Yao over the years. But now that things have been clarified I really wronged you. It's my fault Don't say you're so innocent. Neither you nor Xia Qingqing are good people All known How did I hit the mark? Since there is evidence Then take it out. evidence Qingqing is just a little kid Confused for a moment He must be joking with you. Besides, didn't I drink that glass of wine? Wine is fine. You are wrong If there wasn't that glass of wine I won't stay with a bastard like you for so long. So what are you going to do now? Do you want me to kneel down and apologize to you? Kneel Heart Ye Xin I will never allow you to bully Han Sheng Xu Xianren, what are you doing? People like him stay outside instead of going to jail Will you continue to harm others? Xu Xianren is enough After all, Brother Qingqing saved my life. You are not the one who saved me Sister Xinran I know you don't like me But how can you make Brother Sea Cucumber kneel down? Yo I smell it again Sister, what are you doing here? Brother Han Sheng Don't blame the newcomers. Sister, I won't argue with him. I know he is jealous of your kindness to me. I understand But I don't know how I offended Sister Xinran. You know I've always had a bad attitude. That's why I keep bothering Brother Sea Cucumber. If Han Sheng is not feeling well If you are wrong Then I really deserve to die. Your acting is so explosive Why doesn't the Oscars give you a golden statue? Why does my chest hurt? Almost got an apology Forget it, Brother Poseidon I won't argue with the fairy sister I mean you apologize to Xu Xingren I didn't do anything wrong Why should I treat him well? I will do whatever my brother tells me to do. sorry I don't forgive Xu Qingwen, don't go too far. I did it for Brother Han Sheng's sake. Otherwise, what are you? Xia Qingqing, come here You need to apologize to Xingxing for drugging her. Give someone a taste of their own medicine Look, Xia Qingqing God won't let me go That medicine is really not mine. I don't know what's going on, doctor. Then keep showering me. When you know you are wrong, come back Brother Dasheng I have so much body Ask you how old you are I will die I will faint if I get excited. If my hands are cut, I will faint. The hospital will close down without you. Xia Qingqing Don't make me say it a second time. Brother Han Sheng Watch me die with your eyes open? Don't push your luck Brother Han Sheng My brother saved you back then. Are you sure you want to save him? Miss Chen, let's go. Leave it alone good As long as sister Han Chun doesn't let me do it As long as you decide to study well with Sister Xinran I'm dead Xu Xinran You wait for me My sister took her to the hospital Yeah, got it. Let's go well This play is so boring My eyes are dirty. how You need to seek justice for your white moonlight. This matter is over Now, let's talk about our business. I have nothing to talk to you about. Money lets him bully you I fired He pockets all the birthday presents every year. He will learn his lesson. Qingqing, he framed you Also learned a lesson I see Xu Xinran These 7 years between us Is there nothing worth your nostalgia? Xinxin We are all ordinary people No one is infallible Then you live your life I live my My future will only be better than now. And garbage belongs only in the trash can You do this to me over and over again Is digging my heart with a knife Doesn't your heart hurt? He Hansheng The more pain you feel, the happier I am. The days without you are the most beautiful and happiest What I'm most looking forward to Thanks Obviously I came to apologize To redeem How did it turn out like this? Miss sister, Miss sister Xu Xinran, why are you always so inseparable? Always standing between me and Brother Han Sheng Die Die Brother Han Sheng I know you won't ignore me You still have me in your heart Right? Brother Han Sheng I've been burning for a day. You're here now I really want to Love Brother Why are you doing this to me? Don't do these little tricks anymore. Brother Hansheng I don't understand what you are saying I will send you to the Magic City in these two days Don't you want to learn dancing? You can go and learn You want me to learn dancing? Or do you want me to stay out of your sight? So that you and Xu Xin can play the role of living together and flying together Xiao Qiqi Did you also call Xu Xinran? I'm sorry. I was wrong. Brother Haisheng I can bring you together with Sister Xinran Please don't chase me away, okay? This matter is settled. don't want Brother Poseidon I love you and I want to be with you forever Qingqing From the beginning to the end, I just treated you as my sister I don't want to I won't be your sister I want to be your wife I want to be your Mrs. He I want to be with you forever So this is why you have been bullying Xu Xin Is that why you've been targeting him? Brother Ansheng I'm going to the Magic City. Don't tear up our last bit of dignity. I don't want to He Haisheng, don't forget that it was my brother who saved you. If it weren't for my brother, Died long ago You owe me this. Can Qingqing A great favor will always be repaid one day. Why is this happening? Where is the lack of modesty? He is my brother, why did you choose him instead of me? If that knife I'm the one who blocked it for Brother Sea Cucumber. Give someone a taste of their own medicine Xu Xinran wants to snatch Brother Han Sheng from me You are not qualified to understand Brother Han Sheng Send me to the Magic City Aren't you just afraid that I'll delay your wedding? I want your wedding Unfinished I dare to give you medicine They're going too far. Just let them go. No I want to give them a big gift before I leave. How to please a girl? If Xu Xinran was my sister I will definitely not let her marry you So beautiful Who made you my brother? Why Think about it carefully. Between you and Xu Xingran Have you ever had a special touching and most cherished moment? The most cherished It's so beautiful. This is the first ring you gave me. I declare No matter how expensive the ring you give me is, This one is my favorite Maybe I know Mr. He, why did you come to me so late? What's up? This is the legendary true love Representative of Mrs. He There is only this one in the world yes So I'm going to give it to the one I love most. Please help me carve our names. Another punishment Western Xia You finally came out My family has no shortage of gatekeepers Do you think you can ward off evil? He Hansheng, you are the biggest evil in my life Okay, don't be angry. I have sent Xia Qianjin to the Magic City I will never bully you again. Yo You sent Bai Yueguang to the Magic City. How can he illuminate you? Maybe the moon in the Magic City is rounder. I won't contact him anymore. Who cares if it's round or not? Xie Qing Before you Always saying I don't have time to take you to meet my friends There happens to be a banquet the day after tomorrow. Can you play with me? Xu Xinran, you dare to sow discord You wait for me banquet You forgive me Then I'll go back and prepare well. Wait for me. Thank you. Don't worry. This time I will give you a grand An unforgettable wedding Xingran, are you really going to the party? I heard that He Hansheng is secretly preparing for the wedding How can I not go? I want to give them a memory they will never forget. Xu Xinran, go to hell Xu Xinran, I see you have lost this face Will Brother Sea Cucumber still marry you? Dead Face Star Qiqi I have tolerated you for a long time. Xi Ran, you bitch Not only did you sow discord between me and Aunt Han And asked him to send me to the Magic City How can you be so vicious? You slap yourself in the face Xu Xinran You crazy guy No wonder Brother Han Xin didn't love you for so many years Just love me and pamper me He loves you and pampers you Then what are you doing here? Or has he spoiled you like a lunatic? He shouldn't be too fond of you. Are you saying I'm crazy? Yeah, looks like a clown. Boo you're the clown You are the crazy one I'm going to kill you Kill you What is going on? Brother Han Sheng I know I was ignorant when I was young. I did a lot of stupid things. Sister Xinran was wrongly accused So I came to apologize to him. But he didn't forgive me. I was also hit with sulfuric acid I said a few words to him. He beat me up. Brother Poseidon You just made the decision for me Didn't I send you to the Magic City? What are you doing here? I'm here to pick on the stars again Brother Poseidon I know You sent me away to protect me But I really miss you Brother Ansheng Brother Ansheng You forced me to drink this for Xu Xinran this time I don't believe that Brother Han Sheng doesn't feel sorry for me. I didn't expect to come here to apologize today. Causing this situation Brother Han Sheng I have chest pain If it hurts, go to the hospital Are you injured? You know that sulfuric acid is fake. What injuries can I suffer? Brother Han Sheng Don't you feel sorry for me? You weren't like this before What's wrong with you now? Hey, if you want to argue, go ahead and argue. This is my home Why are you locking me out? What are you going to do in there? Brother Han Cheng He's a piece of trash I bailed him out. He actually gave me fake sulfuric acid And it hit us right away. Cicia I want to take away the humiliation of your family living on me A thousand times the return Brother White Bear It can only be me Sissi, ah Sissi I'm venting my anger on you I can handle it better without you. What do you think about the banquet? Not interested Just this once, okay? As long as you promise me From now on I swear Our bridge is back to the bridge I won't bother you anymore. Then I'll take that as your agreement. I thought as long as you could show up Can attend wedding We have a long way to go As long as we are together One day I will hold your cold heart Xinran, why did you agree? If that was real sulfuric acid today I'm afraid I'll be disfigured. Cut the grass to remove the root I can't let Xia Qingqing do whatever she wants to me anymore. This is the one I want. Tomorrow, I will wait for Brother Han Sheng and Xu Qingya to have a falling out. I am his most beautiful bride Sorry, Miss Xia. This wedding dress is made by a famous designer Hand-sewn in Italy There is only one in the world It has been ordered by Mr. He to Miss Xu. Gave it to him Xu Xin Smile, you are so beautiful Um Really beautiful Han Sheng, am I beautiful? ah beautiful Star, will you marry me? I am willing to take care of you forever The whole world The best for you Best He Ansheng You told me this was a normal party. Would you come if I didn't say that? Okay, I know it was my fault before. Not anymore. Can you give me a chance to make amends? The sound of falling cold Can't fight Xie Xinran, I have already said You can't win Brother Han Sheng can only be mine Hey, Sister Ying Miss Cai, you said that Brother Han Sheng is really Just have a wedding. I have to give people a surprise Sister Yin, please don't tell Brother Haisheng I already know Okay, I understand Only I can be Brother Sea Cucumber's bride Wait, come here right now. Star There must be some misunderstanding here. I clearly engraved the lives of both of us. I think you're disgusting. Listen to my explanation What happened to Mr. He? Explain it to me Mr. He, this is according to your request. Any questions? The bride is Mr. Xu Not Xia Qingqing Mr. He Aren't you going to hold a wedding with Miss Xia Qingqing? Yesterday, Miss Xia Thank you, that's not the case. Please listen to my explanation. Bad people do bad things What's a good explanation? This matter is worse than when you forced me to jump into the river. Please don't hurt her. I can give you anything you want. Want her to live I'll let that little bitch replace her Xinxin, please hug Qiqi. Can you hug her? Brother Poseidon I'm afraid of Qiqi You have always been stronger than Qiqi She couldn't stand the torture. Don't worry, you'll be fine. The police will be here soon, believe me. You've always remembered this. I thought you had lost your memory No matter what I also have to thank you for leaving you, you bastard. Not only did I lose my memory, All my heart diseases are cured. Thank you It is like this I had my reasons. At that time, I was Qingqing only has responsibility He saved my life. Until now, I only love you Don't call me Xinxin Heart is what you want too This is my family's name. Shut up But didn't I dance with you later? Doesn't this prove that I love you? Love me love me to death You are so ridiculous. Xiaoqiang, that's not what I meant. What do you mean? How can you forgive me? Thank you. Thank you. Kneel down and maybe I can forgive you. Why do you feel so wronged? good I kneel As long as you can forgive me You can do anything Xixi Xu Xinran, you vicious woman You actually made Brother Han Sheng kneel down Aren't you tired of kicking the wall every day? So sad Why don't you kneel with him? I won't argue with a vicious person like you. Brother Haisheng Get up quickly You are a CEO. Why kneel down to him? This is between me and Xinxin. Don't interfere How can I not intervene? You are such a proud and excellent person. How can I do this for such a selfish person? People who are not worthy at all kneel down. Brother Hansheng I love you I love letting go Star I know I hurt you I know I can make up for it anyway Can't eliminate the hatred in your heart Then, Star, can you hit me? Hit me. Isn't it you who likes to hit me the most recently? Hum, hit you I don't deserve it Xiaoxia Xiaoxia I'm sorry. I was wrong. Too late Where are you going? Today is our wedding day Go outside and take a look The outside is all the wedding I carefully prepared Please don't leave. not good There are so many people watching. Don't be like this. Let's start over. Han Sheng, today is such an important day So many people are Leave me alone I didn't hear it just now He has something to do today I have to go there right away You wait for me at home. be right back He Hansheng, you have come to this day too. Brother Han Sheng You haven't understood yet? He's playing you. He doesn't want to be with you at all Xiangxiang is impossible Why do you come back if you don't agree? Xiang Xiang He said it was false, right? How could you possibly fool me? So you never intended to forgive me from the beginning Aren't they still children? You just want revenge on me Make me lose face in front of everyone yes It's Xu Xinran He Hansheng Yes Why do this? I have made up I've admitted my mistake Why do you still want to take my heart away? Wan Xin He Hansheng Do you have a heart? Are you happy to see me like this? Yeah, I'm so happy. The more pain you suffer, the happier I am. Because you now I finally feel 1/10 of the pain I felt back then. He Hansheng You will never let me become your bride in this life I curse you to never find true love in this life He Hansheng's seven-year obsession I Xu Xinran let it go This time, there's no turning back I, Xu Xinran, will never marry He Hansheng in this life If you violate this He Han will not die a good death Song Alien Brother Shan, are you okay? look have no idea It's because of you It's because of you. It's because of you that I left me You are the culprit. It's because of you Is that right? Brother Han Sheng I am dear Han Sheng I am Xia Ming's biological sister. Start Today Don't show up in front of me roll good I am dead Are you happy? I have magic. Don't play these little tricks in front of me I don't love you I don't love you But today is my brother's death anniversary. You choose today's wedding Marry someone who doesn't love you at all Have you ever thought about my feelings Don't mention him to me. He Hansheng We grew up together Childhood sweethearts A good match I have loved you for more than 20 years But why in the end I have no weight in your heart Have I ever told you You're just my sister I didn't love you before I don't love you now I won't love you in the future Then I'm dead Can you remember me? Mr. Xu You hate me It means you love me This life You can only be my woman Lu Jun, find me 100 love teams I want to get Mr. Xu back Xinran, you just let Xia Qingqing go. Kill him directly I'm afraid of getting my hands dirty But the hidden thread has been laid In this world Is there anything more painful than not being able to love someone? Besides The person he loves will stab him in the heart Seeing you like this makes me feel more relieved I was afraid that you would be so upset that you would die with them. After all, you and He Hansheng have been in love for seven years. Hey, I'm not stupid Die with these two bastards Okay, I'll change my clothes and we'll set off. Okay, pack up and let's go to the Magic City Bro, I need your help The filing team has been found. Oh no Qin An was released on bail by Xia Qingqing The strangest thing is I checked his account and found that there was suddenly an extra sum of money Guess who hit it? Xia Ming Xia Qingqing, how many things are you hiding from me? Ah, it's finally here I'm so tired. Then you should have a good rest. I'm going out the opposite door Call me if you need anything Um Then I'll go first Gladly What happened to the senior? Senior Xinran You are good Thank you Am I OK? Of course, you are a financial genius of our Jin Dynasty. At a young age, he is already a tech upstart worth hundreds of millions But Senior You will have your own happiness Gladly I see Then I'll stay by your side I believe you will notice me one day. I shouldn't have chased Miss Xu back like this. You can't do this at all Mr. He, listen to me. Look at my plan. How come this doesn't work? Not good Oh no! Xu Xinyan is missing. Get out of here How many times has Xu Xinshan been here? Hello The phone you dialed is powered off 3 days Xu Xinran, where have you been? Where is Xu Xirang? I don't know. Even if I knew, I wouldn't tell you. Scumbag Hey, where are we going to his house so late? Xu Xinran, get out of here! Xu Xinran Xu Xinran, I beg you Come out to me What are you knocking? For several days Not back Late in the evening The child has to go to school tomorrow. Hey, is this guy a fool? Been standing here for a few days. I won't be rejected by my girlfriend for asking for reconciliation. I'm so handsome. Still so infatuated Oh, it's rare. Where did Xu Xinruan go? Don't ask me for company matters Found the airport surveillance footage showing he went to Shanghai Xu Xianshan No matter where you run to, I'll find you. It sounds really good Anyway, it's out of town. No one knows me I gave up painting and dancing for a scumbag. Now I'm gonna dance It turns out that girls only want to please themselves The happier the happier Catch a thief Bitch careful Wait for me. Are you okay? Thank you It's my senior. You were the one playing the violin just now Very good If you like listening to it, I will play it for you often in the future OK, I'll go over there to look for the owner first. Be careful So relieved OK What an interesting person. Little sister You two are destined to be together. What's the meaning ah Don't you always say that your piano doesn't need dancing? Because you think No one matches your rhythm and beat Look at this girl just now Close all your rhythms, beats and tunes Seamless Oh and more We were just dancing here, playing with bamboo A heroic A hero saves the beauty What is this fate? Do you think I can catch up with him? It seems that Master Zhuang from our imperial capital is interested. Isn't Xia Ming dead? Some people are alive But you have to play tricks Mr. He, let's go to the bar tonight. Good, I haven't tasted this girl in the Magic City yet. Isn't this allowed to be appreciated? My brother is going crazy looking for him How did he hide here? elder brother Isn't this my illusion? Qingqing, I think Xu Qingran discovered something about me He ran to the Magic City. Brother Sea Cucumber The imperial capital is about to turn over It's really worth it Burn him to death if he doesn't obey my brother That's it, brother Thank you bro I still Like immortality strangeness Why did I dream about that dog man? Xu Xinran opens the door Xu Xinran Wake up, wake up Yes Xing'er, you can't die You can't leave me alone You can't leave me Xu Xinran, why are you so lucky every time? OK I should have confessed to you earlier. What's going on? Am I dead? How come even the Black and White Impermanence belong to that dog man? Where are you going Going to a place without you Xu Xinran I saved your life last night You treat me like this I've blocked a knife for you before. Even Xu Xinran Xu Xiran almost got it You always gave me the cold shoulder before Scheming against me at the wedding I've hurt so many friends and relatives Embarrassment in front of partners We're even What else do you want? how You're still wronged let go Let me go let go I'd like you to let go, but you can't hear me, right? I said why did you do this to me? Just this kind of stuff You fled to the devil's city Xu Xinran What about your self-esteem? Where's your self-love? You can insult me You insulted my friend. What kind of good stuff are you? You apologize Apologize to my senior I apologize. Why should I apologize? He is an outsider who interferes with our relationship He's also right, right? You are the outsider Xu Xinran, I don't like you like this. You like me, it's scary Senior, let's go. I'm sorry. Sorry to bother you. I hope you're okay. Xu XinranXu Xinran Senior calls me Director Zheng Did you two sleep over? Don't use your dirty heart to maliciously speculate about others Sir, you are great. Brother Han Sheng Xu Xinran is fickle Why can't you let go? You just can't see How am I treating you? Senior sorry I'm responsible You were also scolded I would rather be in tears for the rest of my life A man like He Hanxuan is not worthy of you You deserve better You deserve better, sir. Compared to men I love myself more No man Women can live well too. Not better Cher It feels so good to regain what you lost. Then I will be brave enough to confess to you in the future What the police said Still investigating Isn't Xia Ming dead? Some people are alive but they have to act like ghosts Senior What happened to the senior? It will take a while to finish choosing a house Why don't you stay at my place first? No, I live in school. More convenient If He Hansheng still knew that I was living with you I will still find me If I cause you any more trouble I will feel guilty Oh, it's up to you. I don't have anything to give you right now. Otherwise I'll take you home. Okay, it's an honor. Xiao Jiang please Mr. Xu, what are you busy with? It turns out that he was secretly hanging out with Yin Deren every day. I almost thought you were going to die last night because I saved you Didn't you ask me if I was hurt? I think you are doing well. Full body up and down And your mouth is so hard. You're so heartless when you talk, aren't you? Let's go small Don't mind him. Okay, you two should just treat me like air. The air is more important than you You are a mudslide Xu Xinran is my woman Don't try to hit her. If you know where to go, get out of here right away. He is my guest You should be the one to go. You protect him That's right He is my friend You dare to touch him? I can't in my life He Hansheng I'm laying my cards on the table I just like Xu Xingran I am more qualified to love him than you are Why do you Because my name is Zhuang Yuanqing The future heir of the Imperial Capital Banker In terms of identity and status, I am no worse than you So there is this stupid identity but In fact, crops are not worthy of being a king. Xu Xinran is Please also consider the banker's side Don't interfere with other people's feelings I'm glad to follow someone like you This is such bad luck. You just want to call me Jiaojiao Gentle and generous I really have deep feelings for her. Enough You two go. I'm sorry, sir. Sorry to bother you. Then we'll meet again. You don't leave Don't like the stars He likes me Stop begging for mercy. Xu Xingran He is just a A wealthy family In terms of status, I am not as strong as you In terms of character, I am not as bad as you. I will never allow you to have other men around you Never allow Why? Because you're not a man yourself. So I'm not allowed to have a decent man by my side? what It's better to have important time Brother, have you caught up with your wife? Since you left The old guys in the company started to make trouble I just can't stand it anymore Come back soon Xinxin, I did a lot of stupid things in the past. I admit my mistake You used to be good Don't change it, really sorry I can't make up for the past. I don't even dare to expect your forgiveness We report to the police Since you don't like the wedding Why don't we just get the certificate? If you want to get a certificate someday I will go by myself I won't bother you anymore. I know you're still angry You must be deliberately provoking me Want me to leave You also invited the Manor Street to perform. Right? Communicating with animals is really hard. Xu Xinran: No one will never make mistakes in his life. I will and you will too But I still love you now Isn't that enough? Such a cheap thing Do you have to keep it in your mouth every day? No, still sad? I love you I still love you Why don't you love me Why don't you love me Why I don't want to argue with you again and again These repetitive There's no point in asking this question. It's okay if you don't leave good If you leave today Do you want the necklace your mother left for you? Xinxin, this is your coming-of-age gift from your mother. I hope you are healthy and happy My daughter is really beautiful and sensible You will definitely find a boy who loves you in the future Live a happy life He Haisheng You threaten me You threatened me with my mother's only relic. You forced me to do this. As long as you promise to be with me I will return the necklace to you. Where does the dream necklace come from? It doesn't matter The important thing is that it's in my hands now. Give it back to me No need to pay me back. I'll give it to you. Kiss me and I'll give it to you Let's go Well, you took the initiative before. Now it's my turn Say you love me Say you love me Xiaoqing Say you love me He Haisheng Don't forget what you and Xia Qingqing did to my mother. Mr. Cheng, have you seen the pendant my mother left for me? It seems to be Miss Xia Let you entangle or Then let your dead mother die without a burial place I'd better leave this piece of Feng Shui land to my dog. Brother Han Sheng Do you think Diandian will like intelligence? Don't worry, you have such a headache. The dog will feel at ease What are you doing mom Aunt When did you die? I'm sorry. Thank you I really don't know what happened to my aunt. Yes, besides Xia Qingqing, what else do you know? Three years ago we first talked about getting married My mother is busy from morning till night I made a table of dishes for you. I want to discuss marriage with your family That day I waited and waited Wait and wait I can't wait for you He Haisheng I can't wait for you Thanks My aunt's death was an accident. right Accident If my mother hadn't been waiting for you at the door that day He didn't worry about you. He wouldn't have been hit by that truck. That Day What are you doing? You are accompanying Xia Qianqian to do a manicure You keep saying she loves me Is it to make me lose my mother? What do you owe me in exchange? With what you call cheap love? You and Xia Qingqing are both murderers. Let the auspicious past pass by. OK Just let him go. I can't go I can't go I can't live my life I beg you and Xia Qingqing's mother to give it back to me. Give me my mother back So many years You all hate me Still hating my sister Shouldn't it be You hate me so much So what should I do? I should compensate you. I should compensate you. Xu Xinran, you bitch And use some old things to provoke others How come you are here? I finally see you. Never return to the company Something big has happened to the company. I called and said you were at the airport. Walk Look at his helmet. What nonsense are you talking about? Sea cucumber brother I heard from Chen Yi that you were here I'm afraid you won't be able to let it go So I followed you here. I'm just worried about you. Then you came at the right time I know that Brother Han Sheng will miss me too. Kneel down Brother Haishan Are you kidding me? Never joke Start from the waist down Everything you have done should be torn down. Brother Haisheng How could you do this to me? What has he done for you? And I can die for you Can he? You are sick, I am not good Han Xin What do you want me to atone for? You want to be with this bitch? When I die, I can make you happy Star I know you've suffered a lot. I am He Hansheng I don't mind if you kneel down Why do you think I will forgive him if he kneels? We can't just sit there and wait for death any longer. Otherwise, I will completely lose He Haisheng Dad, I asked Qin Yan to come and help you Brother Poseidon It's me. No one else can take him away. Xixi I want you to die Sure enough, no one Thank you, Senior Don't be so reserved. We are friends He Hansheng solved it Senior, is your hand okay? These hands are for playing the violin. Fighting for the girl you like It's my honor Senior, stop joking. I have no plans for love right now. Sorry. Then I'll go to class first. good Xing Ran We have a long way to go Even Xu Xinran can't get it You brought me to this lousy place, you're crazy. You're a piece of trash You don't want to take the cab so you can tie me up I'll be your slave Have you ever respected me over the years? One mouthful of waste Where are you going? I tell you You are He Hansheng's lapdog. He doesn't even bother to look at you. impossible elder brother He Ansheng has found out I faked the car accident and pretended to save him. Sooner or later, you will be discovered I'll turn myself in to the police in a moment. elder brother I will take it all Died my mother early We grew up together as brothers and sisters I have the responsibility and obligation to protect you I just can't be by your side anymore Accompany you outside Tige is alive and well elder brother He Hansheng is a good man But he doesn't love you He's not a good man. Let go of your obsession. otherwise Bro, I feel bad elder brother Infatuated I want you to die Xu Xinran, go to hell I can't talk to myself Xinxin sorry It turns out that Xia Qingqing's brother saved me once. He caused the accident himself. I'm a complete joke For a rare responsibility of mine and the coldness of you I can't forgive myself It's so beautiful. This is the first ring you gave me. I declare that no matter how expensive the ring you give me is, This one is my favorite It's too hot. Take medicine. I, Xu Xinran, will never marry He Hansheng in this life If you break this oath He Han will not die a good death He Hansheng You will never let me become your bride in this life I curse you to never find true love in this life Thank you gentlemen Master, you are awake. You've been in a coma for more than half a month. The doctor said your wound has almost healed. But you, the devil Why did you save me? brother Where is Xixi? Did he come to me while I was asleep? Did he say anything? How is it possible? He loves me so much I'm having a wedding soon. How could he not come if I was injured? How is it possible? Drive a car This is amnesia. Doctor, this is my brother. This is post-traumatic stress disorder It must be caused by some strong stimulation. Can it be recovered? It's hard to say. Heart disease needs heart medicine Marine Xia Qingqing Xia Ming Qin An and the others are in jail Except for Xia Qingqing, who was sentenced to five years The other two were sentenced to life imprisonment Glad I'm back My stomach problem comes back. Is the millet porridge ready? Raised for 3 years My stomach is finally feeling better now. Even if it's hard, it's worth it Mr. is ill again. The past five years have been good and bad. Aunt Chen What about wine? Give me wine Only when I'm drunk I won't remember where you went Why What a sin Hey Chen Yi Remember to make pancakes tonight. Come back first to eat He loves to eat this. Why Mr. hurt Miss Xu so deeply Can she come back? Why Mr. Zhuang It's a pity that this hand doesn't play the piano Someone also said that But it's no pity Only standing higher I can protect the people I want to protect. He is also the leading person in charge of the Beijing circle. Better than a pianist Now even the one from the He family has been outdone by you. I have to thank him for today. Xu Xinran is just a little girl in the golden circle. Can I be one of the abandoned children of a wealthy family? I don't know which girl is so lucky. She's the best girl in the world. Today's Star Art Exhibition I hope he can accept my confession. Five years You finally came out Today I must become Brother Han Sheng's bride Xu Xinran What if you pretend to be an art exhibition? Brother Han Sheng can only be mine Brother Han Sheng Xu Xinran is back In my star After 5 years, I finally found you Xiangxiang, is that you? You are back Xiangxiang Brother Han Sheng really has me in his heart Xu Xinran, you lost Xiangxiang You are finally back Did you know How much I missed you in these five years Little Brother Why is it you? You're out of jail Where's Shin-chan? Where's Shin-chan? Brother Han Sheng Do you remember that today is the day I was released from prison? You have me in your heart Just admit it. I asked you where are the stars? Stars Stars Your wife is dead You are talking nonsense I said Brother Han Sheng I'll ask you one last time today. Are you going to marry me? He Hansheng, I can die for you Can't you just look at me? You are not even as good as a hair of a star What a irony Brother Han Sheng You've said this to Xu Xinran before, right? You said he is not even as good as one of my toes Stop talking I have been suffering every day for the past five years If you dare to take another step forward I'll jump from here. Oh no, Xu Qian is back. Zhu Yuanqing is proposing to her Where Sun Road But Han Sheng, I'm not kidding you. I will really jump down what ever Thank you He Hansheng I don't believe I'm dead. You won't shed a tear for me Wow, that's amazing! Congratulations Congratulations to Ms. Xu for winning the Alexander Club Award This is the Nobel Prize of painting. Thanks Let's congratulate Miss Xu for winning this honor. Congratulations Ms. Xu Rest I like you You and I can't Don't think you can beat me in business. In terms of emotions, Who does Xingran like? Let him choose. He Hansheng After so many years Why haven't you learned to respect women? Sharp teeth and green mouth That's all. Xiaoxiang, I have waited for you for five years Do you know how I got through these five years? I think about you every day Every day in digital Can we get back together? Gladly I fell in love with you from the first time I saw you No matter what happens in the future I will love you forever My House Car Stocks As long as you want I can give you my worth. Xu Xingran Can you marry me? Please shut up Shut up I don't choose anyone Please go back, both of you. My exhibition will continue. Flowers in full bloom Butterflies Come Xu Xinran is very happy that you have become who you want to be. Mom, I'm fine now. And you Can I be the abandoned child?