So this review has to begin with a bit of Back in 2011, a little-known game hit the t heard of it but it s essentially an RPG Tank Engine. did attract a very small cult following of made mods for Skyrim. Most of these were of more quality of improvements than anything changes to the game s character creator. to offer up an expansion like experiences, voiced characters and a lengthy, narrative One of the most celebrated of these mods was is lulled into an ancient ruin and discovers his own life leaving behind Through the menacing door lies not only a back to when this ancient ruin was a small mystery afoot there, and only you can solve ability to travel through time, resetting you please to begin tugging at new threads The mod was widely successful one of the most 3m downloads, but even more impressively it in the category of Interactive Media , the by the incredible community feedback, and Pearce put together a small core team of 3 they decided to spin off their mod into its years doing that, they rebuilt the whole game new setting, they rewrote most of the story game will arrive on PC with Playstation, Xbox s selling for around $40 USD for the console it should be in that ballpark. for you today The Forgotten City, I played You may have noticed by this point that I video I recommend this, I do not recommend t done that for this video because I m sort this but nor am I like no, don t play this. things that I really enjoyed, and really delivered it up. I will say that having spent the 10 enjoyed it. No doubt about that. shortcomings here. The small budget and small and I think that s going to prompt some people and design choices made that really piled-drived me off. Stuff that really robbed me of the that I think are central to an experience In addition to all of that, I think I was for this type of game a time loop game. I playing The Outer Wilds, and Sexy Brutale touches on time travel mechanics. This format and I think my biggest disappoint with The much with the time loop mechanic, making the it could have been. a first game from an entirely new studio of off for 5 years plus to make this, and I don that they didn t succeed. The Forgotten City stuff that a certain audience is going to stuff in there that many people won t, which a little tricky. Alright, enough pre-amble. -- [Karen opening bit] opening that sets the scene for the game tonally, a riverside with no memory of how you got so clearly we re in for a mystery of some make a joke about her name here and you begin a good 70% of what this game is: standing them while they serve up exposition, answer (however you choose to wield it). out based on the footage you re seeing. This this very perspective staring at people s and lip syncing isn t great. Faces lack convincing their eyes look like those eyes in creepy lip syncing is really, really off. facial animations it s not easy. I mean large wrong. So I get why we arrive here, but at when it comes to an experience like this. you have a lot of opportunity to observe this s biggest reveals happen in these dialogue their heft when you re staring at these lifeless, one strained eyebrow raise at a time. of the game are much stronger. I reviewed 1440p. I had almost no problems with performance. but what was really about it. I had no crashes bugs except for this dude who uh, yeah he Other than that though all perfect. It s funny I played, and there s further patches coming it really solid technically so hats off to One of the biggest strengths of the game is of this forgotten city and navigate the devastation, past is certainly transportive. It s set in with palaces, villas, forums and temples. cosey sort of way. The Forgotten City is very minutes, but each of its landmarks play an inch of space is used meaningfully. Each new which one scene of this little play will unfold, to get put that scene in motion. City really nails exploration and more specifically See this is a non-linear adventure. There but a lot of those can be done in any order. either a narrative prompt, or through simply who informs you that an important item you just chance upon that item yourself as you NPC exists until you meet them, hidden away corner of some palace. Ingeniously, the story meet someone, it all still manages to make are always the same, the order in which you very different. game design because as worlds become larger them is all but removed. It s vast tracks monuments, map markers and UI HUD guiding need to observe the space you re in you just that immediately gets a lot of points in my that. This is a small space but it is dense, know it that s definitely one of the Forgotten There s a little bit of combat in this game are puzzles, and these are interesting. They you to use the limited tools at your disposal solution wasn t whispered in your ear the Lemme explain. hearing the voice of a mysterious figure, littered about the Forgotten City. At first to add to set the scene and deepen mysterious this voice was sentient, and they didn t have times I would encounter a puzzle and be like, and figure out what to do next . The normal game communicates to us: hey time to solve with the puzzle the voice says here s the you what to do, and not like 5 minutes after Like 5 seconds of being somewhere the voice I looked in the menus and there s no way to for me it really pissed me off for two reasons. out please. Like cmon, have a little faith. die in a boss battle and the game s Did you like fuck you man how dare you ask me that? me what to do. of the potential inherent in a time-loop based a lot of opportunity to experiment, take risks, the cost of failure is typically just a little puzzles that are more demanding, not less. to them 2 or 3 times in different loops to the first time. None of that has space enough or discovery is immediately taken from you ear. disappointment with the game, and that s the of just the puzzles. Like I said, this is a long time. Most of us will have played Majora universe in a gameplay sense, where specific know those schedules to take advantage of time to engage certain NPCs or access certain The Outer Wilds is one of the greatest videogames s a discussion for another video, but it is implementation of a time loop in a videogame. loop, where a planet crumbles into a black crashing into it and one planet becomes filled these events create unique windows, some as can achieve things. sort of Metroidvania of the mind. In timeloop through power ups or mcGuffins, but by understanding The Forgotten City has its own time loop. you like, or can wait until the end of the for you. Waiting for that event is pretty gets in this game. NPCs do not have set routines There are no specific items only usable at that are only accessible if you are there The most a player will ever use the timeloop mean by that? Sometimes you will say something to them and that point essentially shut down need something from them, the only way to point you can chat with them again and keep you, it s sort of what I was talking about things wrong to the point where stepping back is honestly the most you will ever utilise This is a murder mystery of sorts. It s set them with their own secrets to keep. When NPCs having secret rendezvous as certain times they go for their morning constitutional so picking up a key that an NPC puts down for were going to do that, making their house that happens and all of the potential inherent -- I do think it s utilised to great effect in a fascinating place and having met is inhabitants I m not remotely surprised that this won an Here s the set up an Ancient Roman city, hidden There s only one way in and no way out. There them citizens of the Roman empire just trying re incentivised to live these peaceful lives Upon arriving in the city on of the first The Golden Rule. As decreed by the gods, The What this means is that if a single person city will die. out beautifully throughout your playthrough. of it is it a sin to think an evil thought? indentured servitude? What about suicide? with violence if the circumstances call for The Forgotten City is a philosophical game, the Stoicism movement, the ancient Greek Mythologies Epic of Gilgamesh. You re going to ask every Sword of Damocles hanging over their head, for, against or indifferent, with each of politics or spirituality that they most adhere One of the most interesting threads the game Golden Rule is used as a political wedge issue the Golden Rule is real, and it s just a myth the population. If this sounds on the nose of this game pre-date COVID, but it is funny conceit takes on new currency. mystery that you re trying to solve here is the Golden Rule, condemning everyone to a that is to avert the looming disaster, and chatting with people and asking them invasive ask that to every person you meet btw it s Getting to know the residents of The Forgotten experience. Each of them is written so distinctly, accents, perspectives and a complex web of There s no shortage of madness, honour, greed, s inhabitants. You ll encounter it all in each other. really satisfying. There are four different their own way but the final, true ending is ends exactly as you d hope they would be. in. that pulls you into the mystery, and gives you pressing onward, and it finishes strongly ll be pleased that you played this one. earlier are going to make this a tough sell great puzzles, and they were there but they I had hoped for a more ambitious implementation t there either, meaning the game was far less that mechanic had been better utilised. In feels like a narrative led walking simulator However just because it feels that way doesn the exploration, the people, the story, the those were all great. And bottom line I enjoyed, matters most. It would be perfect on that because it s very because I think this will pleasantly surprise that more a few people who pay $40 for it If you are still keen for this experience you re on the fence perhaps wait for it to giveaways. If you get the chance to take a there s more than enough here to justify a Finally I just want to say that I think the that has so much going for it, and if this their next game because there s more than re doing and their approach to game making. That s my review. Thanks for watching.