-Oh, I love being -Yes! -What did we do to deserve this? -Well, I can't speak for you. -No. -But I can say, for me, decades Thank you. -Hey, hello, little one. Little boy. You know, it's so amazing. I just realized the three of us since we were at the border You know, it's been a while. -That's correct. That is the last time I believe. -I'm excited. I wanted to do I wanted to do the show one more [ Laughter ] -Well, you're here. Thank goodness you're here. -Are you promoting? -Yes, I'm promoting my new which has not been -Okay, congratulations. -Congratulations. -But this is the greatest show because there is no host to care the way you do. -Thank you. And I love that. -Oh, no, no, no. -I mean, no one captures It's a gift. -And I love that suit. -Oh, my God, it's -- I love the way it conceals -Yeah. -And when I'm home, you know, which is rare. -But -- no. No. I think, &quot;Wow, for somebody your teeth look great.&quot; [ Laughter ] -You wear like a rubber thing -- It's a whole system. -You proved that tall, can make it in show business. -You have such a -- You have such a -- And then I want to hear -Sure. And that's a -- that's hard I suggest that whatever you're you should double it. -That is so nice. -Wait a minute. Do you -- do you smell Febreze? -No, that's Jimmy's new -Yeah. -It's fresh. -Steve, it's been a while since -Jimmy says it's been a while -Oh, yeah, yeah. It has been a while. And I'm doing good. A little older. I learned that today. I was at a street corner waiting for the light to change. There was a 16-year-old kid next We were both standing there waiting for the light to change. Finally it changes. And I turned to him, I say, &quot;Well, I guess it's time And then I realized, that when I was 16 &quot;Well, I see you have [ Laughter ] -No, you are timeless. Really. I mean, although he just smiled and a hunk but I caught it, -I heard you. -You heard that? -No. I heard you I go and I say, &quot;Just some He says, &quot;Give me the full That's true. -No, you know, Steve -- And I'd tell him Steve... You know, but Steve is, people think he's older because they think because there's no blood really -I'm not pale. -Oh, please. -Steve puts on sunscreen [ Laughter ] -He did a 23 and me DNA test, and it came back 23% -Wow. -That is a pale human being. -It means a lot to me on the fifth anniversary of me hosting -We're excited. [ Cheers and applause ] -A little sarcastic. -No, no, no, no, no. -I'm trying to get it down. -That's good. -No, it's appropriate, because and Steve Higgins every night. To me, you are Chuck Schumer, without the sexual tension. I think it's so brave of you, and to decide suddenly to I think it's a good -- -Dude... We learned from your show, watching the monologue, and we realized, &quot;Wow. He must put the laughs [ Laughter ] -At least you're learning -Congrats, five years on NBC. That's 125 in Megyn Kelly years. -That's great. That's great. -I don't get it, but I laughed. -Yeah. -No, I'm not a conspiracy but I think it's amazing that this show started And almost two years later, -Guys, let's talk about... -No, let's go on. -No, no, I want to -- He just wants to entertain, -I want to say congrats Last time you were here, we were talking about your -Yeah. It was called, &quot;You Got -No, no, no, no, no. No, the other special. -Oh, I'm thinking -The other special. The one we shot in Europe. -No, it never aired in this -Now it's coming back. That was the other time. -I hope you two are having fun. -When did you get here? -I never felt so alone. -Happy Valentine's Day. -I'll tell you one thing about It was nominated for four Emmys. -That's right. [ Cheers and applause ] Well deserved. -And I don't know how many for four Emmys, Because I'm thinking, &quot;How do we Is it two in each arm? maybe you carry two, Then there's the jealous looks I'm thinking, &quot;You know, we don't even win one.&quot; -Yeah. And luckily your wish came true. -You guys are the best. What is it like working -Well, you know, Steve is -- it's so amazing, all the things He performs magic, he juggles, he plays the banjo, -Yeah. -I'll tell you what, I'll tell about touring around No paparazzi. -Zero. -I don't care. -The new tour is called &quot;Now You at the upcoming tour dates, at Wilkes-Barre in Pennsylvania That's on February 15th. February 16th, you're at That'll be fun. You've been there? -Mm-hmm. [ Laughter ] -It's called conversation. -That's when I had my gambling -And it was amazing. [ Laughter ] -You wouldn't believe it, they -Yeah, yeah, yeah. -Foxwoods in Connecticut. -Why don't you come -I would totally. -Oh, you want to be Yeah. -Yeah. -What's your problem? Like, every time I've ever &quot;Oh, I got to be -That's not fair. -March 2nd in Syracuse, I can go to that one. -Yeah. -And we'd prefer it if you [ Laughter ] -I understand. -You guys are going to stick But first, you said you had You made something for me? And we don't want -Yeah. but because we know how you hate -No actually, we -- to celebrate your fifth year -And we have enjoyed the show so and picked our favorite bits We looked at all the rap, and the impressions. It was so much fun. And so we put together a little from your show -I love you guys. [ Cheers and applause ] Steve Martin and Martin Short. [ Cheers and applause ] [ Laughter ] Wow. -So many great moments. -Cheers to us. Guys... Steve Martin, Martin Short, Catch them on tour, &quot;Now You See