(RAINFALL) &quot;Mr. Iwata is gone, but it will be years before and the full video game industry He was a strong leader for our company and his attributes were clear to most everyone. Intelligence... creativity... curiosity... and sense of humor. But for those us fortunate what will be remembered and especially... his friendship. He was a wonderful man.&quot; - Reggie Fils-Aime On July 16 and 17 of 2015, despite storms from Typhoon Nangka, more than 4,000 people attended It spoke volumes about the man. On the surface, he was the president of Nintendo. But for those who knew him, he was much more. A programmer. A gamer. A leader. A husband. A father. A friend. During his life, Iwata had it seems unbelievable. His knowledge of programming was unmatched, and he routinely saved games He became a president in his 30s, hand-picked by the most despite having little experience. But Iwata's greatest achievement that video games weren't for everyone. He tore down walls and introduced Even when others doubted him. His philosophy was best &quot;Above all, video games are fun. Fun for everyone.&quot; This is the life of Satoru Iwata. (ACOUSTIC GUITAR MUSIC) He was born in Sapporo, Japan, the largest city on the island His father was Hiroshi Iwata, a prefectural official who wanted nothing more than to see his son follow in his footsteps. But Satoru Iwata had other plans. He would read encyclopedias His greatest fear was earthquakes. His favorite food was chukadon, a mixture of rice, fried vegetables Iwata was also active in school, serving as student council president, class president, and club president throughout the years- an early sign of his leadership qualities. But one day, on the way to school, Iwata encountered a device At the Sapporo subway, a local telephone company It was Iwata's first experience with a computer. Every Sunday, he came back to the subway to play a simple numerical Iwata became fascinated with and wanted to learn more. In 1976, as a sophomore in high school, he worked part-time as a dishwasher to buy an HP-65, the world's first programmable calculator. Iwata now had the means to make his own games. And his passion was born. After high school, Iwata enrolled Since studying video game design and he majored in computer science. Around the same time, an immensely popular arcade game was Space Invaders. Iwata loved it. and wondered how he could With the money he received Iwata purchased a Commodore PET 2001, the very first all-in-one computer. His days of programming on a calculator were over. Iwata's love for computers grew by the day. He would disassemble his computer and frequently played games Their dorm room became Playing games was fun, but Iwata wanted to learn more by However, due to the cost of personal computers, few people owned one. Iwata was one of only ten students His thirst for knowledge brought him where he befriended an &quot;Iwata was stopping by my office He helped me make test programs, and did other minor things. He was helping so he could obtain as well as technical information He and other students - Yash Terakura Iwata's internship with Terakura During this time, he created &quot;Car Race,&quot; a simple racing game for the PET User's Club. Iwata also helped Terakura for Commodore's Color PET prototype. But his first big breakthrough came the local Seibu department store. A group of computer enthusiasts sharing programs they stored on cassettes. Iwata was happy to be around like-minded people, bringing in his own creations One member of the group who worked at the store took note of Iwata's talents, and asked him to join a new company HAL Laboratory. Iwata was still enrolled in school, so he agreed to join part-time. He was the only programmer on staff. The company of five worked out of a developing peripherals and including the MSX and the Commodore VIC-20. One of Iwata's works was Star Battle, a clone of the Namco shoot 'em up game Galaxian. In 1982, Iwata completed his degree at the Tokyo Institute of Technology and happily joined HAL Laboratory full-time. Meanwhile, his father, Hiroshi Iwata, had just won the mayoral He was not happy with his son's choice. A year after joining HAL full-time, Iwata's choice paid off. The Nintendo Company was known as the Family Computer, or Famicom, for short. It cost Y=15,000, making it significantly cheaper And it was made to play video games. Iwata was stunned by the He said, &quot;I feel like this is going to change the world. I want to be involved in this, no matter what.&quot; As luck would have it, the Famicom of the 6502 processor, a popular CPU that was used including Iwata's own Commodore PET 2001. Through connections with HAL Laboratory, Iwata set up an introductory Engineers at Nintendo were more than happy to give Iwata and HAL Laboratory work. Iwata seemed more familiar with the Famicom than Nintendo's own programmers. It was the beginning of a beautiful relationship. Before the Famicom was released to the public, Nintendo was working on a deal with Atari to distribute the system in other territories. While Nintendo had a Atari had a much better worldwide presence. The deal stated that Nintendo would while Atari would sell and Atari also requested that Nintendo program One of those games was Joust, the popular arcade game by Williams Electronics, which Atari licensed for home consoles. Thus, Iwata was given his first job from Nintendo: create Joust for the Famicom and have it done in three months. He finished it in two. Unfortunately, the Atari-Nintendo deal fell apart and Joust wouldn't be But Nintendo was impressed by They gave him a new assignment. He had to fix their game Pinball which had fallen way behind schedule. Iwata got it done and the game was released in February of 1984. As time went on, including Golf and F1 Race. HAL Laboratory, and especially Iwata, quickly earned the trust of president Hiroshi Yamauchi. He invested money into HAL, officially making them Iwata was promoted, becoming a development manager He was dubbed &quot;the Super Programmer.&quot; One notable title he worked on was Balloon Fight, a game where you pop Iwata's programming was so good, the Famicom version of the than the arcade version. Iwata had found a way to on the screen much more accurately. Nintendo was amazed and used the same calculation of Super Mario Bros. In 1987, HAL Laboratory was working on but has having trouble finding a way It was at this time Iwata would first work with Shigeru Miyamoto. Miyamoto had been with Nintendo since 1977 and created some of their biggest hits, including Donkey Kong and Super Mario Bros. To Iwata, it seemed like everything &quot;Why does Miyamoto-san always succeed?&quot; Iwata's programming skills were undeniable. But there is a difference and making a smash hit. Miyamoto took a look at the &quot;just wasn't fun.&quot; With Iwata, they remade courses, added Mario as the main character, and made the game compatible which made the racing action The final result was one of only eight games Iwata learned a valuable lesson during that project: content was king. &quot;I found out then that engineering as imagination,&quot; he said. From there, a friendship and mutual It would be the first of many collaborations. By 1991, HAL Laboratory They now had 90 employees and were building a brand new with a clear view of Mt. Fuji. However, all was not well. HAL Laboratory was suffering and they had borrowed a significant amount To make matters worse, the Japanese economy was In total, they owed Y=1.5 billion. Hiroshi Yamauchi, President of Nintendo, agreed to help HAL Laboratory pay Satoru Iwata would be named Iwata, who was currently Head of Development, was hesitant. He had little experience as a manager. But he finally agreed. &quot;It isn't a matter of what I like or don't like,&quot; he said. &quot;But rather when I think that this I'm prepared to do it.&quot; He quickly prepared himself to lead HAL Laboratory through repaying Y=250 million a year over six years. He was 32 years old. Iwata had the daunting task through paying back Y=1.5 billion of debt. But somehow, through all of this, he managed to accomplish things that and a leader. One of his first jobs was to speak with This helped him not only learn more about them but himself, too. Iwata believed the company that everyone could believe in. He led similarly to how he programmed, making decisions by gathering information, analyzing it, and assigning priority. &quot;When I did that,&quot; he stated, &quot;things around me begin gradually getting better.&quot; Iwata shifted HAL Laboratory's It seemed to offer endless and it would be the key to saving the company. Luckily, they had one game Tinkle Popo. Created by 19-year-old game it was an action game with universal appeal. Anyone could play the game and have a good time. But when initial orders of the Iwata grew concerned. He consulted with his old rival, Shigeru Miyamoto. Miyamoto liked the game, but thought the name He suggested they rebrand the game and have Nintendo publish it. This was a risk. Iwata would have to cancel 26,000 orders. But he agreed. Higher-ups at HAL were stunned and asked Iwata to reconsider. But he refused. He knew the magic of Miyamoto. The gamble paid off. &quot;Tinkle Popo&quot; was renamed to &quot;Kirby of the Stars,&quot; also known as Kirby's Dream Land. The game became a huge hit, selling 5 million copies. Iwata would never forget the could pick up and play. In 1993, Shigesato Itoi, a well-known Japanese writer came to HAL Laboratory with a problem. His company, Ape Inc. was busy working on their latest game, Mother 2. However, development was moving too slowly. Itoi was concerned the game He asked Satoru Iwata for help. Iwata took a look at the code &quot;I don't think you're going to be able Iwata gave him two options: either he could take what they or they could start fresh The choice was obvious. Rather than solve the issues one by one, Iwata and his team at HAL developed tools that the staff at Ape could use that would move development along more easily. In less than a year, they were For his remarkable help, Itoi referred to Iwata as &quot;Superman.&quot; Iwata followed up this this time by helping Game Freak, the studio behind the Pokemon franchise. Iwata assisted with the Western localization of Pokemon Red and Green so Game Freak could focus on their sequels, Pokemon Gold and Silver. With the sequels, Iwata created graphic This allowed them to include in the same cartridge, essentially doubling the size of the game. When Game Freak was creating Pokemon Stadium, Iwata was able to port the battle by simply studying the original source code. Game Freak designer &quot;What kind of company president is this?&quot; he said. It seemed like Satoru Iwata took no days off. Around this same time, he helped Kirby creator Masahiro by programming the game on the weekends. By 1999, Iwata's shift to focusing Literally. HAL Laboratory was able to Hiroshi Yamauchi couldn't help but be impressed. He offered Iwata a position at Nintendo For all the help Nintendo provided Iwata felt he owed them one and accepted the position. The next chapter of his In his new role at Nintendo, Satoru Iwata's job was to create a strategy for making their latest console, the Gamecube, a success. Iwata once again focused on game development, establishing new procedures to while maintaining quality. He also encouraged developers to Shigeru Miyamoto, now a co-worker of Iwata, took the challenge to heart, trying to find ways to make the interact with the Gamecube. Even with all of these responsibilities, Iwata still found time to do what he loved. During the development of he helped debug the game He loved being, quote, &quot;in the trenches.&quot; In Iwata's first two years as Nintendo saw increased profits However, the Gamecube was still In May of 2002, Hiroshi Yamauchi called Iwata into his office. Iwata thought he was being fired. Instead, Hiroshi Yamauchi told He wanted Iwata to become a position that had outside of the Yamauchi family. &quot;The reason for Iwata-san's selection comes down to his understanding of An executive, regardless of his vast successes, is fundamentally an executive who doesn't intimately understand our products. Over the long term, I don't know whether or lead the company to even At the very least, I believe him to be the - Hiroshi Yamauchi It was now up to the 42-year-old Satoru Iwata to lead Nintendo into the future. His first task was to come up with a plan to get Nintendo back on track. They dominated the handheld market, but saw decreased home Said Iwata, &quot;If we continue down the same people may become tired of gaming.&quot; He concluded that the video game industry was becoming more and more exclusive. The creation of new, technologically had driven a huge gap and beginners. Something had to be done to draw people back in. He recalled his work on Kirby's Dream Land and how making a video game resulted in great sales. The philosophy of keeping would be Iwata's strategy. Deviating away from what would be a huge risk. But Iwata was determined. &quot;Creators only improve Nintendo's first big decision between Iwata and Miyamoto in the spring of 2003. The topic was Nintendo's next handheld console. Before departing, former president Hiroshi that the next handheld similar to the old Game &amp; Watch Although he was now his boss, Iwata trusted Miyamoto more than anyone and wanted his input on new hardware. Miyamoto suggested one of which could be used for controls. The other screen could display the action. Iwata loved it and the basis for the Nintendo DS was born. Unveiled later that year in November, public reaction was mixed. Sony, who had just teased their wrote it off as a gimmick. When it was released a year later, sales were slow. But Satoru Iwata was convinced that Nintendo made the right move. To go along with their new hardware, Iwata produced a game to Brain Age. Based on Dr. Kawashima's the game contained simple to stimulate neural activity. Miyamoto produced a game of his own, a pet simulation game called Nintendogs. Word started to spread on the Nintendo DS and skepticism about the system vanished. The DS sold 13 million units in 14 months. That number would have been higher, if Nintendo could have kept up with the demand. Iwata's instincts were correct. With success in the handheld market, Iwata wanted to move his Genyo Takeda, who had his hand in every was put in charge. Iwata asked him to &quot;go off the road map,&quot; to focus on innovation They needed a system that They gave it the code name &quot;Revolution,&quot; an appropriate title for the system The final product was eventually Hardware-wise, it was basically The innovation came with the controller which utilized motion controls. Packaged with the system was Wii Sports, a perfect title to show off &quot;Today, there are people We'll help destroy that wall Once again, critics were skeptical. And once again, Iwata was right. The Nintendo Wii was a resounding success. selling 20 million units in just over a year. For the first time since the '90s, Nintendo was #1 in the video game market. Satoru Iwata had to convince not only Nintendo but the entire industry to believe in his idea that gaming should be less exclusive. In only four years, he had succeeded. He infused his vision into workplace culture, merging divisions to encourage collaboration, and regularly meeting with employees. During his tenure, Iwata made several changes to open up the doors of Nintendo and love of games with the world. In 2003, in order to gather more data, he created Club Nintendo, a reward program that in exchange for taking short surveys. In 2006, he launched &quot;Iwata Asks,&quot; a series of text and video interviews hosted by Iwata himself. It provided never-before-seen information and unique insight on game development, something Nintendo usually kept under wraps. In 2011, Iwata launched &quot;Nintendo Direct,&quot; a video series that detailed news It was a chance for the public to You are very busy now since there are Huh? What? It looks like I'll be delivering the directly to you. He would regularly speak at conferences and do media interviews, something his predecessor rarely did. It was clear to everyone that Satoru Iwata was more than On my business card, In my mind, I am a game developer. But in my heart... I am a gamer. (APPLAUSE AND CHEERS) In 2009, with Nintendo riding high on development began on the next wave of systems. For handhelds, Iwata wanted to having worked on it previously Nintendo experimented with 3D ever since. In 1995, they released the Virtual Boy, a system that resembled a pair of goggles It wasn't successful. Nintendo experimented more on 3D displays with the Game Boy Advance even going so far as to modify the But these ideas never made it past Iwata was still encouraged and pushed forward with that would use 3D displays. What resulted was the Nintendo 3DS. Released in early 2011, the handheld could display 3D effects without the need of special glasses. The technology was impressive. Sales were not. In the second quarter alone, the 3DS only sold 710,000 units worldwide, way under expectations. Hardware sales across the as the Nintendo DS and Wii became older. Iwata slashed the 3DS price drastically from $249 to $169 in order to entice gamers. With profits declining, Not wanting to lay off employees, he slashed his salary in half. In 2012, Nintendo followed up the It featured HD graphics, and a tablet controller. But once again, sales were disappointing. Many consumers were confused by the name, thinking it was some sort of rather than a brand new system. Nintendo also continued to a market that the tablet and cell When asked if Nintendo would begin Iwata stated, &quot;Absolutely not.&quot; When asked why, he responded, &quot;If we did this, Nintendo For the 2011 fiscal year, Nintendo reported $461 million in losses. It was their first loss in more than 30 years. For the 2012 and 2013 fiscal year, Nintendo experienced their second While the 3DS was selling better, the Wii U was failing to catch on with consumers. Something had to change. As he so often did before, Iwata handled the problem like a programmer. &quot;If the system doesn't work, it's definitely your fault,&quot; he said. Iwata took full responsibility for the decline in sales and enacted changes to put Nintendo back on track. He took over as CEO of Nintendo of America, and killed the expensive E3 presentations in favor of the online Nintendo Direct videos. In order to drive up software and hardware sales, they would focus on releasing including Pokemon, Mario Kart, and Super Smash Bros. In June of 2014, Nintendo announced the Amiibo toy line, which could connect to Nintendo With these changes, things began to look better for the company. In the summer of 2014, during a routine physical examination, Iwata was given bad news. Doctors found a growth in his bile duct, a form of cancer. He quickly underwent a successful Due to his medical issues, he announced that he would miss When he reappeared in public he was noticeably thinner but in good spirits. Nintendo's software and and the Amiibo toys were becoming In 2015, after three years of operating loss, Nintendo announced they Iwata continued to shake things with mobile developer DeNA in March of 2015. One analyst described the move as &quot;the most drastic, bold shift in strategy Nintendo could have undertaken.&quot; Iwata had finally recognized the legitimacy of mobile gaming. In June of 2015, gamers eagerly anticipated the E3 expo, the annual convention where game companies, including Nintendo, usually made their biggest announcements. But before the event started, Nintendo announced that Satoru Iwata would not be attending for Iwata stated it was no cause for concern, as there was no new hardware to announce and he had business to deal with in Japan. Later that month, he attended where they reelected directors and Two weeks later, on July 11th, Satoru Iwata passed away at the age of 55. The cancer had returned. &quot;In a previous column, for those around them, it's simply as though But for the deceased, However, even for other people, Mr. Iwata's presence was too great to Mr. Iwata's world is gone, leaving a massive impression on those around him. Yet, even so, our world continues.&quot; - Masahiro Sakurai &quot;When I'm parting with a friend, I find it best to just say, 'See you later. We'll meet again.' After all, we're friends. That's right, nothing unusual about it. 'I'll see you later.' You went on a trip far, far away, even though it was planned You wore your best outfit and said, 'Sorry for the short notice,' though you didn't say it out loud. You always put yourself last, after you'd finish helping everyone else. You were so generous as a friend that this trip might be your very first selfish act. I still can't grasp what's happened. It feels like I could still get a light-hearted email asking me out to lunch at any moment, after you made sure lunch wouldn't You can invite me out whenever you want. I'll invite you, too. So, for now, let's plan on meeting again. You can call me up whenever you like, and I'll give you a call, too. I still have a lot to talk to you about. And if I come up with any I'll let you know. So let's meet again. No... I suppose we're already meeting. Right here, right now.&quot; - Shigesato Itoi (SOMBER PIANO MUSIC) Iwata's death was a shock to everyone. The outpour of emotion was an indicator of how It came from everywhere. Executives. Employees. Rival companies. Developers. And gamers. Their words varied. Visionary. Leader. Inspiration. Mentor. Legend. His legacy on the video game Time and time again, Iwata redefined what it meant to be a developer and a leader. When games were in development crisis, he saved them. When a company was on the verge of crumbling, he built it back. When things got bad, he took responsibility. And he did it all with a heartwarming smile. Satoru Iwata embodied what Nintendo was all about. That video games are meant to be just one thing: fun. Fun for everyone.