- I love to cook outside to grill, to do, and that's Today in our menu, a grilled salmon. We're going to cook strawberry in the sun, but to start with, we're going to start with a very sophisticated dish, a souffle you know, and the souffle is always And the souffle we're going to do today is a souffle of spinach with ham in it. And with of course, a lot of So I start with a little bit of butter. I have about a tablespoon of butter here, and a dash of the oil to And with this, we're going That is a mixture, which is a thickening agent The roux is done a great a great deal in French cooking. It is still done, but in the so-called nuevo last few years. In any case it's still done in New Orleans and so forth. So it's a mixture of flour oil that you do in approximately You want to cook that a little bit. And of course, if you then you would have those which cook for a long, cook 25, 30, 40 minute, and So there, the roux is hot. The milk should be cold. I am putting a ski milk here and that has to come to a boil now. We put a dash of salt in and we just have to wait for it to come to a boil stirring occasionally. And during that time, we are going to prepare Now conventionally, we do the but here I'm doing that in a slightly the bottom of that You can do it with your finger also. And what we have here is fresh bread crumbs and parmesan cheese. I put a little bit of To mix it together we're going to use that in the bottom of the mold of doing it is to put Let me check my bechamel here. We know it'll start going on the outside. So you have to be sure to palm of your hand and go around. The other is going to start. It's starting thickening now, but it will really thicken. So what you do here, You can bring back the thing around to put back the This is when you realize that I didn't have any butter. I did that on purpose to show you. So I put a little bit because you want it to be coated all over. So this is the mold for the souffle. Actually it can stay right on top. It's going to go in the oven on this. It can stay there. Now, the bechamel, as you but I'm gonna put spinach in it. And I have spinach right here. You know, they are nice spinach young. So I take the end of it. And if I do a spinach then I use the root. But not today. You know, we used to take those spinach and cook them in water just to blanche them a little bit before And this is basically what I of years ago, I was cooking with my daughter and she was doing cream spinach. And she came and put the I said, you cannot do that. She said why? I said, because we always She said, why? I said, I don't really know, So then, you know, I'm I'm putting that directly I know like this, I have no loss of nutrient I have quite a lot of spinach here, probably maybe a bit We cleaned up my table. And now with this, we I have in there five eggs, as you can see. In there, we're going to into the copper bowl. The best way to separate eggs the bowl. You're going to beat them, then take the eggs and We need three egg yokes for our recipe. And we have two extra one here. We are always trying to that is I'm using five egg You know, here we are for a large souffle. So here it is. And now I'm putting the three egg yokes, which goes into my recipe here, can take it out directly. Here is going to continue as you can see, and in which goes in there. I have a beautiful color. As you can see here. All I need now is to bit my egg white. So I use large balloon it goes much faster by have a little piece of And first you start very fast. (whisk beating bowl) To break the eggs and make them liquid. Then we start slowly. Now see that I'm moving the wrist. You know, I'm moving my to lift up the mixture. You know, and very often, of If you move the whole And this is a balloon whisk a balloon whisk meaning that there is a lot of little thread and they are very flexible for me. This is the difference You know, the whisk very often it's stiffer harder and a whip in my opinion of more thread to beat like this. You see the advantage of whole mixture in one stroke, instead of going from this is basically ready. You know, I feel like a minute. Yeah, I can see it. As soon as it hold a good peak holding a peak, you see, when it's fairly flexible At that time, we tighten the egg white, we're going around way like this, and around to make them tight. We take a mixture, some of it like, a third of it and mixing it in there. You wanna go very fast? You know? So the eggs don't And with the whisk, I'm some of the egg white in we're going to fold it in. So again, this is always on the thread at the end. Lick your finger. Then I'm putting this in there And now I start folding and you I'm bringing it around, lifting it up the movement is the same all the move the ball around. Okay, this is nice. Now, this is the time this is a six cup mold, usually one cup. And now we are going to That is we want to make Then you can do a bit of a of your spatula to As you can see. You can clean up the to make a clean edge there. And if you wanna be a bit fancier, use a piece of cheddar cheese like this, like I have two little strip like that. I'm cutting lozenges out of it. And I put those lozenges Nice effect, you see. I could use some little crisscross around or put here, there, here all around, you know, because this is going to mark and you're going to be Very impressive without much of thought. That's about it you know. You wanna put maybe a little have left, or you know what all of the go in the souffle. I forgot it. That happened very often. It's okay. It's very good without the less calorie. So that's fine. A bit less flavor. I'm gonna put that 350 degree oven for about 30, 35 minute here. The middle of the oven. I have one which is just about ready here. It's always a certain amount of suspense from the making of a souffle. And here it is, I have the And you know, the souffle You wait for the souffle. (bright music) Now we're going to get to use the grill, which is nice and hot. I just look at it the way it should be. I have a slab of salmon here. You see the whole filet that I But I left the skin on. The skin, of course, has to be scaled. I took the scale out of it. And then we're going to That's what I call steak of salmon. Sometime people call through the two filet, one or the other, you know, but I mean, I like it this way. And those steak are going to six ounces. So what I want to do here, pat them dry, you know, those beautiful, fresh salmon, a little bit of salt on top of it and brush it with a bit of oil. We want to cook it on you know? So the grill has to be really So here is what we're going to do. Just take it there. (grill sizzles) And I'm going to put two to I want to cook some I have large so-called one with the gill, totally apparent. Those are type of mushroom, I also have some special mushroom Those are morel, very expensive. To what we are going to do whole one there the same with a little bit of oil and put them to cook I'll put a couple, maybe three, Pop in the sun is more and those are really available They used to be kind of rare, but now they are all I see, So here we put them right there. My grill is really hot. We wanna cook them on each side. So while this is cooking, I can't even check my salmon, these seem to go pretty fast here. Yeah, it goes a bit fast. So I'm going to move it to the on the other side. Could I see that my skin, the skin of the salmon is what I want. So I put it right here up the happen when the stick, you know, I can take that salmon now and it slowly in the oven. Or I could put it on the outside with like a cover. Or if I have a grill on my cover, I put it down on it and What I have here, which go I just have a bit of water. I'm going to put something I have asparagus here and I wanna show you quality of asparagus. Look at those two asparagus here. This one are a very tight you know, tight together and quite firm. This is a good asparagus. The size of asparagus has Look at those. Those are, it's like a flowers where the petal are That's an older asparagus and This is a much better quality than this. People think that the tiny tiny asparagus is the best quality. Size has nothing to do with it. It come out of the ground, smaller or big. You want it tight. Like We use a vegetable peeler here to peel the lower part of the stem here. As you can see that part meaning that the whole thing is edible. This is just our standard of this. If you peel the part of it, which is getting fibrous at the end here, not that I leave the I roll it this way. I keep my vegetable peeler flat. This is a nice vegetable peeler, but any vegetable peeler So we cut that on a bias and we're going to do a you know, so right into the water here, we put our asparagus with a lid. And as I said, we are going to which is quite different, because we used to do that hollandaise and so forth. So what we cook here, we cook it for a few minute then we put a little bit and let's see now our portabella mushroom. Yeah, they are and cooking here. Let's say they're about cook, you know, they are dark and very meaty. So let's see my asparagus are on a boil. You have, you should have maybe two, three tablespoon of water at the end. You know, when you finish cooking. If you feel that you need a I'm going to take a bit That's it, just to cook it mixed with the butter and create a sauce. So we use about two tablespoon This of course is unsalted. See the asparagus will I don't, even though they are I don't think I put any salt in it. No, and I can put a You want to keep your You don't want them too crunchy. I like them a bit al dente, but that again is a I think that I am going to which are cooked enough. You know, I see that they are cooked because they are rendering water. You know, the water is coming out of it. My grill is really hot. I'm going to stop it. Check my salmon. You know, I see that the salmon is tender and I see that it flakes, you know, if you can see that it's flakes, I may open this one just to show you, but you see the center of it is going to be still slightly So this is the way I like it rare inside, but that's Some people like it very well done. I like it more rare for me, I'm going to remove it and keep it here. I don't wanna cook it more than that. This one is a bit messed up. So maybe I look at the other side, hey, that side looks good. Then I will present it on this side. That side looks better. Just present it on the You know, there's no rule for that. I have a large dicon here, which is a radish and that radish, we're going to use a which is kind of a bit spicy, you know, to put on top of the salmon. So I can use, I could actually use the vegetable like this and make a little bit of, again, a julienne out of this that is presenting that this way together and Here we are here that really a nice crunch to it. So what we'll do now I wanna present first, I will put the mushroom in there. I would not really mix my mushroom with the salmon on the same plate, because you see the tend You can put a little bit of olive oil, if you want to splurge, on top, I put some, I brush it nice color around. And I could put maybe on top will go well and just break the basil like this, you know, don't worry too much. You wanted to have a kind And now our salmon, I want to finish my asparagus here. You see, there almost no water left. I break the pieces of butter here. And then you can see at that point, if the butter get incorporated here, it will mix with the water. And that to together will create what we call un beurre formant, a forming butter. That is an emulsion, of course there are The amount of water than butter, which make a very light creamy sauce. And this is the way you wanna this way, it's ready. I have salt in it. We put it right in there. Again, you know, if I serve don't worry about the center of the plate. You can put your asparagus right there. After they are there, we can use the bowl of your spoon to spread That also will go well with the salmon. I will present my salmon maybe the other piece, the other way, a few thyme leaves on top. We have thyme flowers, timely, which will go well with it spring. And this is the main course for today. Oh, we, I forget my dicon here, which will go on top of it too. (light music) And for our dessert, I'm going to make for you in the world. It's cooked in the sun. What you do, you have fresh, you have to have nice, beautiful, you can't do it with the second hand or damaged berry, you know. You do a syrup that I have here, and that syrup is water and sugar. And that is going to cook We put the berries inside. Like you would do a jam, but you see, you don't you don't want to stir it. Cause you know, you want that is, but not with a spoon to break it. Then you cover it like that. And you would cook it for everything is nice and smooth. So what we do next, a bit When the berry, you will see and very limp but still whole, you know, without being broken. So what we, we do, we put all of the berry See the, the, the sugar, the but within four, five We spread that into a roasting pan. And by then you have a lot and you put a screen on top of it. So the bug don't get into it. And you put that in the sun. It takes a couple of days to absorb the liquid again And if you cannot do it in the we have a lot of rain. You can do it in the oven. I put those in the oven look at the thickness which come down to it. And that, of course, as I have here to give make the best strawberry jam in the world. And this is what we can You know, this is very rich. So you don't serve, you still per person like this, in my Maybe three berry should be it's quite rich, but you see the syrup is And the reason for that is into anything three or four are fine. With that, I would put maybe especially the cookie, which are kind of earthy type of cookie, and maybe a little flowers, you know, eatable flowers for decoration. And you have an absolutely My menu today really exemplified especially my strawberry, my which are always a winner, you know, at a jam for breakfast or we start with the souffle. The souffle has a lot of spinach in it. A little bit of cheese. You can even eliminate the ham. If you want cut down on your and it's already an impressive start to any dinner, a souffle. Then the salmon, nice a little bit of dicon on top. Don't worry if the skin stick like mine, put it on the other side, beautiful asparagus And those large black portabella mushroom. Even though they are black, We have a salad with that and And with that, we are going which is from the with a special grape called the Melon de Bourgone. M-E-L-O-N like a melon of burgundy. And it's a very sprite, a little bit, effervescent and clean wine. Terrific with a summer. Service it chilled. I'm sure you will enjoy I love to cook for you. Happy cooking. (light music)