All architecture begins with a concept. If you're struggling to find one, curious architects begin their projects, this short use and some of the techniques I rely on to with one of my residential projects. Very simply stated, a concept is an idea that To an architect, the concept is what distinguishes At its core, architecture seeks to solve problems. It's the questions we ask that will determine Developing a concept allows us to frame the design process. Choosing a starting point for your design block for designers of any skill level. But it doesn't have to be. Your concept shouldn't be rigorous; the In fact, most architecture can't be reduced informed by many concepts working in concert. There may be organizational concepts, material concepts. So, don't fret if your design idea isn't on a page. It's best to illustrate concept development use our Squid Cove Residence as an example. Before we can develop the concept, we have Now, my design process begins only after gathering a project. Now, this primarily consists of three types There's information derived from the site winds, the solar aspect, vegetation, neighboring unique liabilities or opportunities. The site of course also comes along with legal where and what we can and can't build. The second type of information we'll gather Now, every client has a set of cultural beliefs Of course, we'll want to determine their and organizational politics which might also The client and the building type together - which is essentially a detailed accounting And the third type of information I gather Is it a museum, a home or a school? To learn about a building typology we often historical precedents. We want to know the essential problems these Understanding the history of the archetype perspective. Now, all of this necessary information it's project. This inventory can also serve as the progenitor And, rather than shunting creativity, these As with a good film, the setting, the characters, to make it what it is. It's the experience you'll recall rather Sure, the concept sets the film in motion follows. But this concept - the one or two-line description and depth of the finished film or in our case Yet without it, the work is unfulfilling and necessary for all of our work as architects. Once we've gathered this information, it's form. Of the three, the site inventory is the most For our Squid Cove project you can see I've information onto the site plan. This diagram sets the real boundaries of our We have property line setbacks, a setback to avoid and this is shown on the topographical There are a number of trees on the site and avoid, but for the most part the trees and Next I add to this the solar path, the prevailing There are site utilities and an existing logging here, I worked with a soils scientist to define the well which needs to be a certain distance Now, this can often be a stringent limitation much granite locally, so it's important And, the one last piece of information, is we want to avoid looking at. Now, I like to diagram these constraints on information becomes a part of how I see things Visiting the site of course will leave a different allows me to overlay the two in a way that Now that we have this diagram we can start Still quite a bit of territory. This video won't cover the programming phase, to this I've worked with the client to define - as you'd imagine - strongly interrelated. There's no sense in beginning any design cost of the work which at this stage is directly sizes of those spaces. So, having completed the programming exercise home and overlay that on the site when the Because I work solely on residential projects so I'm not doing an exhaustive precedent But knowing the typology allows me to reinvent If I were working on a building typology I precedents and use that information as an and possibly as a launching point for my concept. Now you should look at the work of Bjarke who uses typological reinvention to inspire So, we've visited the site and we know what We know something about the building type design we're about to undertake. What's next? Well, this is where the building concepts Parti is sort of architect lingo for, "concept" prendre parti which means, "to make a decision" a starting point for the design. Now, I've come up with a few of the most there are an infinite number available to We'll start with the simplest, and it's information gathering phase. Buildings interpret their surroundings and The site demands specificity from our architecture. It must react to it. So, using the site to inspire the building any. We can react to: views, light, topography, structures. When a building concept references the site between natural and man-made; in urban and you can design and control and what you can't. Your design inspiration can editorialize this local surroundings or complement it? Will it disregard it, or adapt to it? Will it impose order on it or will it assume For our project, the site was an important It was important for me to work with the landform Of equal importance were the view to the water strong organizing forces that shaped our early I imagined one arriving to the site and being the building. So, I knew I wanted to site the home to the than on the crest of the hill. The sloping landform presented an opportunity I began thinking of ways to zone the organization too. I used the view to the cove as well as the site for the home. Now, often competing site factors will force For example, the prevailing wind direction about arrival to the site. If we were to position a taller mass to the it would impact our afternoon sun and prevent rather than the building. Not all problems will be solved by assuming What was most important was the idea that Unfolding along the hillside allowed the building transition spaces mediating inside and out. We could then use these to establish intermediate Using the hard-edged site retaining walls and contrast the soft edges of the site. Equally, I could have positioned the home monitor or viewing tower or I could've completely on top and concealed the home. And, although these were ideas I explored helped shape the decision making. The site helps to shape other dimensions of and structural concept and we'll get into But, you'll begin to see and it's worth the design. You'll always be referring back to it as on a design problem. The site will obviously inform the organization How one arrives and moves from the public spaces. It shapes where we locate windows which would And, the site informs the formal concepts This site concept is like a marriage. The architecture shapes the site and the site So, this is not enough you say? Well, I agree, there's more meaning to extract So, inspiration number two: the client concept. Every work of architecture requires a client. For residential architecture, the client is Not only from an aesthetic point of view, The client determines the program and which And, they obviously provide the financial Successful architecture artfully addresses Now, client-driven concepts can take the form or they can be purely functional. For example, a request for all living to be For this project, our client expressed a desire for friends and family but also that it accommodate Because we live in a seasonal community, the guests and visitors. So, those who live here year-round are accustomed This inspired the division of spaces into a unique aspect or view to the site. Now, as we begin to organize the spaces of develop a concept is to divide public and their relationship. Now, perhaps you overlap them. Perhaps they're in separate pods or nested. Perhaps their relationship is inverted. From here begin to diagram your concept and For our project, we continued on by layering a near constant schedule of expeditions to This lifestyle helped fuel a story about what and, when they were home and traveling and to each other. And this, brings us to inspiration number The Narrative Concept. Inspired by an attitude about how our client and how they plan to move in and out of the to me the imagery of an encampment by the I envisaged the home as a place for family together'. Uniting in the evenings around the campfire quarters for sleeping. The village concept provided for both social Expedition travel allowed the house to expand and flows of visitors. And, this story, as we'll see begins to floor plans and exterior elevations later. Nested pods provided for escape within the scales mimicked the site beyond and my client's by friends. Each one of these ideas exists in various presented. Now I created this cover sheet to describe not be important for you to convey this to It's sort of up to you. I think it adds a level of interest and a see the value. It's most important that it exists for you They will of course care most about what the stage I present very loose sketched plans the program on the site and within the home. This process usually incites reactions both to pivot moving forward. So, as you can see, it's not a singular There's a narrative that ties it together on the site. There's the site topography and natural the home and there's our client's life can inform the architecture. So, I'd struggle to produce the diagram but it's still a concept. And, it's informed every move I've made Sure, I revisited it and refined it. I've tweaked things based on client feedback But it's still there and I continue to layer When there's a question I know how to answer to help. Now, there are as I said, infinite other ways you're still stuck. Materials. Architects like Peter Zumthor, Herzog and materials of building as the starting point Every line we trace on the page represents make our architecture. Instead of rendering our work in pure white the materials we'll use to construct it. Local stone, or wood, aggregates, tradespeople, into service of the architecture and the spaces Materials have very specific properties by Steel conducts, it's strong in bending, Stone is heavy and thick and imposing. Glass is light and ethereal. Bricks are the size of the human hand and Ask yourself how these materials or combinations For my work, I'll always use the underlying concept. Here we're using dark stained local cedar The spruce, pine and fir forest here is a The shingles and the wood grain replicate helps the building to recede into the site. Board-formed concrete references the wood Its patterns will host mosses and lichens Is this a separate concept? No, it all feeds into an attitude about a Next, a structural concept. The expedition and the camping narrative that the structural strategy too. The gable form is a tent, glazed walls let cabling elements reminiscent of tent poles And of course, there's nautical references Now you could also, write a manifesto. What do you believe this architecture's What are the larger questions it's proposing? Check out Dieter Rams for a famous manifesto. Having researched your building typology, layouts? See BIG's power plant for example. Perhaps you could explore a formal concept. The idea of architecture parlance. The bird's nest. The chicken that sells chicken. And of course, there's always the process Charles and Ray Eames used their journey from many of their designs. How can you bring a fresh perspective to the Is there something inherent in the process The design process isn't singular, or linear. We don't create a concept and stick to it Use what you're learning to pivot, that's You'll present ideas to your client - or Design is a dialogue and the concept ensures Return to your design and tweak it using the Each time we learn a little more about our arise. Now, in the next part of this short course, into architecture. If you've found this video helpful in any up below and sharing it. This is how I know what I'm doing is helping the channel. Thanks for watching. Cheers!