Have you ever seen The Matrix? Chances are In one particular sequence the protagonist The red pill or the blue pill. A choice between learning blissful ignorance of illusion. Neo eventually learn the truth, as horrifying as it may be. this whole time and he is now finally experiencing viewer, is led to believe. But an aspect that doesn't grant you knowledge of reality as between real and fake. Let me ask you this. if the supposed true reality that Morpheus What's to say that they are not inside this point, The Matrix was just as real as only proves that knowing what reality is and potentially go on for infinity. Never reaching Just a simulation within a simulation Yeah, and so on, and so on, This video is not really about The Matrix to the profound and intricate The idea that the universe and reality itself We can trace similar ideas as far back as the time around the world, alluded to the idea that Zhuang Zhou compared his own existence to to be a butterfly. He questioned the distinction seem equally real. Another example is Plato's Imagine a cave where people have been imprisoned that they are forced to constantly gaze upon around the cave, at each other, nor at themselves. Behind them there's a fire, and between the When people walk between the fire and the Because the prisoners doesn't know anything Actual entities of their own. And when a passerby coming from the shadows themselves. They have lesser copies of reality and partial reality that they can There are many interpretations of this allegory It can be interpreted as a way of understanding reality or it could be an analogy for human unwillingness to seek truth and wisdom. Just like the shadows in this cave, could our In physics and cosmology there's now a subfield of theoretical perspectives based on the premise and as such is computable. And some of these to find out if our universe could be a simulation. This is done by, in various ways, comparing If certain similarities are found, conclusions Constraints on the Universe as a Numerical Simulation A really simple analogy is to think of the pixels on your When I move this red dot across the screen, But we know for a fact that this is an illusion is really moving it's just bits of information perspective, it's perceived as motion. If red dot isn't sliding as much as it snaps what they have observed, that the universe lattice as they call it. This could mean that energy or matter but is instead made information that, from our perspective, Another way to imagine a computational universe A cellular automaton consists of a grid of be populated or unpopulated. We then need state of each cell evolves over time based sound complicated but it really isn't. Let's we could say that each unpopulated cell will found to the left. We then populate a single is that for each increment of time a new cell cell. So in this case, it just continues to make it a bit more complicated of a popular cellular automata known as #1. Each populated cell with either one or #2. Each populated cell with four or more #3. Each populated cell with two or three #4. Each unpopulated cell with three populated We populate as many cells as we'd like and actually quite remarkable. I mean it's not is that these four simple instructions can can live, die, or multiply and create a sea stop immediately while others seem to continue telling if any specific configuration is eventually we zoom out as the model continues to expand, But not only patterns. Over time even the individual cells is overshadowed by the behavior the idea. That the universe began as something by a few simple instructions. But given enough time It's only natural for us to assume that the The world can often seem very confusing, random, The Game of Life quite elegantly illustrates is that If you, and I, and everything around us is to reason that that information can be modified We would be nothing more Maybe the simulation began seconds ago and because that information was artificially is really really tiny and all distant celestial the illusion of enormity. Maybe nothing physically detail and complexity is added when it's needed discovering that this is all a simulation the first iteration of the universe and someone Don't get me wrong. All of But that's kind of my point. If we accept the simulation hypothesis, possible and that nothing can be determined. So for the sake of argument, let's say we escaped the would know that it's a simulation, right? But we simulation was simulated in and of itself. simulation. It's a so called infinite regress or knowledge that we obtain could just as Including any evidence As the extent of the illusion cannot be In the first draft of this script I addressed simulation hypothesis. But as it can all be nullified It's really not that interesting. There's philosophical and metaphysical. to the limited reality of the So let's change our perspective. Instead of the cave, could we be the ones who ignite A big reason why ideas related to simulating media, like movies and video games, is that If we look at what we could do just a few decades easy to imagine a future wherein technology from reality itself. And while there's nothing that in the future, there are definitely Over the past half-century the processing which is an observation known as Moore's Law. fact it's already begun to slow down. It's years. The reason for this decline is due are fantastical and can do incredible things they process information and the amount of else, governed by the laws of physics. For futuristic technology, be able to to every single molecule, And the strange world of quantum mechanics quantum mechanics makes this impossible but It states that the more precisely the position the momentum of that particle can be determined balancing board. We force the left side down of a particle, but in doing so, the right in measuring the momentum of the particle. same time would require us to break the board, The uncertain and probabilistic nature of So let's forget about any notion of exact What we can do instead is mimic reality by This is The Illustris Project. A giant cosmological and evolution of galaxies. It's an ongoing data and calculations currently available possible. At its highest resolution it had a volume of a supercomputer with 8192 cores, used 25 TB of RAM Of course, it's only realistic to a certain The simulation is detailed zoom in on individual galaxies, but it's not individual star or planet. And certainly not and atoms, and so on. Instead they have to approximate simulating all of it's individual parts and at present day, the result was strikingly And by constantly tweaking realistic results can be achieved. Never quite This is all well and good for all scientific meteorology, fluid mechanics, medicine, But what about creating a simulation So far I've only talked about simulations code, press execute, and hope for the best. create simulations that we can not only interact immersion. Software like video games are great like the Oculus Rift and the HTC Vive are to the public. Well they will be soon at least. the audio-visual senses. What about everything full body suits like the Teslasuit, vests These will give the illusion of actually and possibly even give the sensation of temperature. create a virtual experience, usually designed There's driving and racing simulators, flight simulators, inside a virtual environment, your best option at the All of these technologies are fantastic but of the virtual reality revolution that likely before color. Because the limitations of these always going to be aware that you're wearing into a locomotion platform. What's eventually to create a truly immersive experience are Research on BCIs began in the 1970s and since far the focus has mostly been on repairing an example neuroprosthetics are prosthetic brain. People who's lost an arm and hand can control using sensors implanted in their brain. to walk again and help people with many types you can truly see its potential when combined publicly available BCI that you can actually it's not perfect, it's actually far from perfect someone has quite literally invented mind brain-to-brain communication was achieved In other words, telepathy But we're still missing a crucial aspect. And this is a significantly more difficult interface, a device receives information from information means. The worst that could happen is that interface, the brain receives information is that you actually damage the brain of the onto the visual cortex of his brain which him to partially regain his vision. The camera brain and his brain interpreted these signals example of a CBI was used on monkeys. A monkey several visually identical objects. When the would be sent back to the brain of the monkey describing the fine texture an But there's definitely a greater risk at play perfect such technology. mysteries of the brain, the possibilities If this technology continues to advance and fiction, the world as we know it and the future When we try to imagine the distant future, explorers of the universe. It's often just far beyond the Earth and the Solar System. that no apocalyptic events takes place and innovate. Almost every non-apocalyptic futuristic a species that will expand outwards. And maybe into reality, why would you want to? A powerful and everything. No fear of harm or death, no physical limitations. The ability to customize our personal needs and preferences. Just like the brain's sense of time. Real world minutes be why the universe can seem so lifeless even Perhaps every civilization that reaches a expanding outwards to explore expanding inwards, using technology, I've never made a video like this before. on some philosophical questions. Hopefully It's so difficult to make a video about these sort of religious faith in The Matrix, waiting It's far fetched, highly speculative, and