[Music] There is a story that almost everybody on Planet has influenced so many actions in our world, much more devious, manipulative, and led to many In this twisted story of gods and demons, and the bountiful realm of Jekkad. Each one, entire cosmos a better place. But when there will be blood, guts and gore. Ultimately, but despite their pure intentions, Where did the ruler of the heavenly realm of play in the war with the hellish realm Here we explore in the lore and story VEGA, and among the Angelic Angels and In the beginning, there was only an endless was the first god, deity, primaeval being known where he lingered, entire realities bloomed. the first realm, appeared and grew around him. denizens with burning ambition without and just as he had hoped, over time, the stunning, to form into a grand civilization. for greatness, they however soon encountered a and way to live, they discovered that their undying souls. As they aged, they died, one His people were pure and despite his unimaginable Davoth hated this. To save his creation, and to he ordered the population to seek out a cure he created another realm with a new Within the heavenly realm of Urdak, the Maykr in unison like a machine to understand the laws, and the other created dimensions functioned. With ladder and invented incredible machinery As time passed, Davoth became cruel and who did not participate in this search. In aided by new technology and weaponry. They also and watched over Davoth as he fell even further did discover the secrets of immortality, too dangerous to share with their mad God. and they had to act to stop him to save and developed, the Maykr struck Jekkad and formed even Davoth, and kept the mortal This betrayal infuriated Davoth, and from him, the lakes, rivers and oceans turned twisted and mutated into demonic entities. As and swore vengeance on everyone and everything. and became the demonic realm of Hell, but or so they thought. Davoth banged against the cracks formed. With these, he was able to send realms to destroy everything they could. that they had to act, and this time, Towards the end of this devastating war between of The Pyramid of The Lost against the most one of them used their advanced technology to rip Davoth's lifeless body fell to the bottom This sphere contained the memories, nature of Davoth's consciousness, and now it This action not only won the war, but it also absorbed Davoth's power and became something new. and in this moment, this Maykr ascended into Davoth still lived in this form, and The Father or allow him to live in this prison. He a threat to life itself, but The Father could The Dark Lord's life sphere within the Temple Urdak that seemed to have fallen to Hell. To stop he recreated the seal around the realm. from setting foot in Urdak, but it also stopped The Father had stolen the power of his creator and creation in existence, and as a new God, in the Temple of Souls, The Dark Lord waited Within Urdak, The Father helped The Maykr he explored everything Davoth had created and Here, he formed an untold number of new worlds to countless new species and civilizations. The Maykr species had originally wanted. immortal and towards the ends of their process referred to as &quot;The Transfiguration&quot;, biological and mental degradation. However, The Father allowed them to bypass this, with As The Father continued his work and created early species and deemed it their duty to After they introduced themselves, they offered moral bodies had moved on in return for the story of creation. They made a few changes. existence. In this tale, he created Urdak first he created Jekkad with a Primeval being to watch first God, Davoth cared deeply for the great civilization, culture and achieved great marvels. but he was plagued by their deaths as age took he could not save them from the curse of death. grew mad in his quest for everlasting life, and as well as for the rest of life itself in Davoth would someday rise to challenge him from all of the other realms and dimensions. Davoth bent all of Jekkad to his will and his rage him. This was the creation of Hell, Demons and the and the creation of a population without pain, and as a result, his newest creations were given make them appreciate life, empathy and peace. through into The Father's newly created realms. final time and ripped Davoth's life sphere from This adapted story painted The Father in a more and over many years, with the help of the Maykr, they did. The truth was wiped from history, and For untold aeons, The Father served as a guiding create new dimensions for new life to thrive. civilisations, but he also created new Primaeval put a lot of work into his creations, he soon acted in ways that he did not approve of. and as a result of this, it was connected to form of a life sphere, still had some power and those weak enough, he whispered dark truths act against The Father, and his creations. He could not stop Davoth from these tactics, fell to Davoth's lure. So, he transformed placed them in the Temple of Souls. and over On top of this, without a Dark Lord to further into discorance. Due to this, The Father realm to prevent the chance that Hell or even grew stronger with each day as they formed new boundaries of Hell were challenged constantly. most loyal servant, Samur Maykr, and after this, he placed The Father inside of The designed to house and resurrect life spheres. Luminarium to worship The Father's sphere as Father to truly guide The Maykr Species, more birthed by the collective Maykr consciousness. educate every species about The Father to throughout the Early realms, they came across the Argenta, already worshipped another God, also felt abandoned by them. Their calls for disease and bandit attacks were left unheard. offered them the knowledge of new technologies, of Urdak upon their deaths, and various other worship of The Father and knowledge of the they were likely less susceptible to the The Argenta accepted this offer, and they soon only advance and construct incredible cities, and explore other worlds under the banner of The they had been told to bring the civilizations they Over time, from his sphere, The Father continued the rising dangers in Hell. The entities within breaking through the seal into the Earthly realms. he called upon Samur Maykr to take his sphere servant, the seraphim stole The Father's sphere him with the other life spheres. Only few could new location, it would be only Samur The Father In this case, The Father was safe. Samur was Eventually, the hordes of demonic entities had access to the Earthly dimension. Upon they found themselves on Argent D'Nur. The Khan Maykr at first helped the Argentan's in their fight against the never ending the whispers of the Dark Lord. The Father had she had remained Khan Maykr instead of the regular destined to be born. She also feared for her they could not stop the awful transfiguration The Dark Lord convinced her that someone would she had to build a machine. As many died, the imbued it with a shard of the Dark Lord to power were placed inside, the machine destroyed them. a new wave of demons and a monstrous titan, the Nabad. Here, Samur heard the whispers of the Dark had mysteriously arrived on Argent D'Nur just Divinity Machine and reverse the polarity. Upon essence of the Dark Lord from his shard inside Samur only wanted to help those around him, and The war was only beginning, but, Samur returned that one of his favourite worlds, Planet Earth To help guide humanity through this to help him. Argent D'Nur had slowly become Dark Lord had slowly taken over the Khan Maykr The Father decided to willingly give up his himself from the vision of The Dark Lord, Samur him. He left all of his power and ability inside and consciousness into an Artificial Intelligence. Upon his arrival on Planet Earth, Samur Maykr used a cloned body in order to fit in with humanity. and created a backstory for himself. He was a Theoretical Physics at Oxford University. With his bright minds through the Samuel Hayden Foundation. From all of this, and as the General Director of a position with the Union Aerospace Corporation. The UAC was a global megacorporation and had Planet Earth was on the verge of an energy crisis the planet. To help in the search, in 2095, to Mars. During their mission to terraform the for a power source, and in the Promethei Terra The Fracture allowed the personnel of the UAC this realm was Hell. Sam and The Union Aerospace solve all of Earth's power problems if they the UAC appointed Samuel Hayden as the head of the Argent Plasma, explore the dimension, A facility of this size with over 60,000 to run it. This was where Hayden brought in and their discovery of Hell up close. an extremely advanced artificial intelligence his mind had been extracted and turned into this only helped in The Father's original plan to VEGA was introduced as the first truly autonomous the Mars UAC Facility that did not need the was implemented to make his interactions with the 50 years old mark. As with most cases in the VEGA was subjected to The Turing Test. to test a machine's ability to exhibit intelligent a human. In the case of VEGA, a blind study was were instructed to ask a series of questions the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. the students were then asked to state which of After the results were compiled, Samuel Hayden was both human, while the other 8% believed VEGA was the part of both VEGA, and the MIT professor. powerful, and this became an obstacle Samuel VEGA was estimated to generate a temperature of of the sun. To contain this heat, a massive was constructed miles away from the main caps. This allowed the miles o f circuitry space and the correct temperature to function. VEGA helped the UAC design better schema for the development of Argent the UAC would have struggled to convert Over the following years, VEGA was essential He continued on through Samuel's diagnoses to the Argent Tower, well into Samuel's The development of the Argent Tower allowed this and with it, saved Earth from their power due to this tower, a positive side effect did lobes were adapted in this transfer, and The Father had created. In this new Over time, Sam led many expeditions into Hell to Argent D'Nur after he and The Father had abandoned with the Doom Slayer inside. It appeared that War. The Father had foreseen Earth would soon and with The Doom Slayer, a powerful being their possession, they could stand a chance. to corrupt and manipulate one of the and under their instructions, she allowed the This time, Samuel Hayden was ready with a As the Demonic Invasion flooded the UAC Facility, of Samuel Hayden and VEGA, he learned what had damages here. The Slayer eventually met Hayden system to the warrior's Praetor suit so that he On his fight through the UAC facility, he needed to acquire The Crucible, an ancient The Well. An immense energy source that kept An issue arose when the Slayer eventually another way back to Hell to use it on the Slayer was instructed by Sam to follow VEGA's machine explained that he believed he was created approximately 2.4 terawatts of power to sustain however could be used to power a portal. power would kill him, and as he was unable to self to do to ultimately kill himself. The marine here and destroyed VEGA's neural processors in To VEGA's luck, just before the Slayer hit the of the AI - and with this opportunity, he did. open a portal and pulled the slayer through, in shut it down. Having completed this mission, into the facility, and, imprisoned in this device, power Earth without the Argent Fracture, that he could not interfere with his plans. Despite all of Sam and VEGA's attempts to stop Sam realised they had failed. Through they had cut off Hell's connection to Well resulted in unforeseen consequences. corruption and she needed an energy source plagued her species. The Well had once of The Father, but without it, she sought an Sam of course returned to Earth with the the charge against the invasion, and as he Over a short period of time, the Slayer managed design. The Fortress of Doom was an incredibly itself to reach almost impossible locations across he uploaded the backup of VEGA he had created VEGA communicated with the Slayer as they hunted As humanity continued to fall, the Slayer, managed to discover and kill the three carry out this attack by the Khan Maykr. the end of her invasion forced the Khan that she planned to awaken the Icon to destroy Earth, and with it, harvest all In order to stop this, Hayden advised the Nekravol to use a portal there to reach VEGA to create a portal back to Earth once he had To do this, VEGA detached himself from drive so that he could travel through with the The heavenly dimension of Urdak, home of the Maykr away from the hordes of demons that the Doom his arrival in the ritual chamber, the Slayer result, removed not only the Khan Maykr's control process. Without a controller, the Icon travelled The Slayer's mission had not gone to plan, and of Sin. Without The Father's seal, Urdak slowly fought through these and arrived at a command portals to the other dimensions. In here, Upon his direct connection to Urdak, VEGA what he was. He was The Father. VEGA stayed the Khan Maykr and the Icon of Sin. Having was finally safe and The Father's plan had worked. everything he had missed in his absence as the Seraphim form. The demons had access to Urdak, world and dimension. The Father had indefinite but he lacked the control to remove Samur asked the Slayer to help him return The re-seal Hell from every other dimension. your transgressions, you are given the honour down too well with the Slayer, and having been he instead planned to destroy The Father's sphere. he could fight him in ritual combat, Hell's borders would fall with him. his way through the Blood Swamps, and reached The as the effects of Transfiguration had begun on the Slayer shattered The Father's As the Slayer entered Urdak, The Father spoke to he was merely a presence, and he needed his unaware that The Slayer had shattered it. If order was not restored to Urdak, then the The Slayer eventually arrived at The the ritual room entrance. The Slayer was after a brief battle, he too fell to the Slayer. spoke to them. He told the Slayer that Samur had and interestingly enough, he teleported his claimed that he was merely a presence, The Slayer went on to bring back The Dark Lord chance to return to his physical form, The access to the ship of the Elemental Wraith, and city of Hell in which The Dark Lord resided. chance of becoming whole again, if the then all demons outside of Hell's borders would Within the Dark Lord's sanctum, the Slayer and explained to the Slayer that he had been betrayed Without their interference, Immora and the people instead stole his power. Davoth demanded that he did. The Father confirmed that Davoth was his As the battle raged on, the Doom Slayer managed a result, as prophesied, every demon outside of also included the Doom Slayer. He had been turned powered by a shard of the Dark Lord. was placed into a sarcophagus by the and he would remain here, in The Temple of Over the span of many, many years, a simple in a war against his creator and became a God. also put his subjects through the same to an AI, The Father, or tumultuous life - and with the Doom With the Khan Maykr dead, and the demons of Hell the future of The Father is unknown. the power to create entire dimensions and worlds. of his power in the event he lost his. Urdak as his loyal followers continue his story of this disastrous timeline does continue This was another incredibly tough video to write. of creation and piecing these bits of information easy. I believe I got it as accurate as I could. kind of contradict themselves in the Codex again was one of my favourite episodes research and dive so deep just to get that one make sense. I have begun work on a giant That was everything I really wanted to say for and if we do get another Doom This was a deep dive into the lore and story then please leave a like, also leave your even share it to another Doom fan. If you then also let me know in the comments and leave regardless of how you felt about it! amazing gold tier patrons. The best resistance Queen Arby, FluffyTheDragon, ChickenGuy791, Karatana, A.J. Mantyla, Vrona_, Comfy and BGgames. Do you think he was the Hero or Villain of This is where our story ends.