Straight into its full potential. I bought a 250 Prado. hang on, I bought a shopping trolley. I've got a better one. I bought a LandCruiser 250 Prado *cough *cough Prado *cough coming up, Why I bought it. Did I ordered the right version? Fresh information. What I got wrong last time, I assumed First impressions and early dislikes. That's pretty annoying. #$%@!? Kidding me... And surprises. 250 LandCruiser Prado. Why did I buy another vehicle? Well You're not the only one I want to know how this thing is going Does it feel like a Prado? Is it any good off road? Will it be a good daily vehicle? What will be the worst Is it better than the 150 Prado? And speaking of the 150, the 250 has And the 250 vs 300. Will it tow well? Will it tow better than the 70? And how do we tap into this? The 48 volt battery. How will it handle bigger tires? And how much smaller can we get The wheel? The rim. What is it really like? And will it make a good touring And the only way to really find out and give you the right information, This is balls to the wall again. And let's see where it goes. Another car, another chapter. Will it live up to my high expectations? Or will it fall short? The journey begins and I invite you testing the new LandCruiser 250 Prado. There it is. Oh, it's all about to happen. The question is though, is it a GX, a GXL, a VX, an altitude or a Kakadu? Let's find out. Altitude Of course. I even dressed black and white It's been a long time waiting for this. A 2.8l turbo diesel with the new 48 I'll explain what that means later, eight Eco, normal and sport. Full leather interior and a whole bunch of safety features. Thankfully, you can toggle on and off vehicle I had no idea what the GXL and the VX look like in the back, five seaters. 100% feel I made the right choice, with this. Wow, that's definitely more than twice the seven seater layout. I'll say almost 250 mil. For me, the altitude was the right choice. And best of all, the altitude comes It's the only one with a rear locker bar disconnect, which I'll show I reckon we take this thing straight offroad. Oh, getting a nice cool on the back. It's pretty hot today. Oh, here we go. This is the second car I've bought from Galeria four years ago. See ya mate see in the bush. Yeah. I'm almost scared to take it out on As I'm driving down, I don't even know I'm in a bloody Prado. Jumping forward three days and 300 K's. I was the first one to pick up the vehicle Literally, as I was driving out, being released when I actually took The spec sheets They're incomplete. There's no departure approach On the spec sheets. That's just the surface. There's so much more in this car. Which brings me to rectifying in the previous video, The first thing I want to address on 60 kilos. If 60kg objects are placed on it My dog weighs 60 kilos. That would mean that That's a bit of a downer. I assumed it was to do with the battery It's just this front box. As you will find The section I incorrectly stated Is this part. So the logic behind how much weight it can Slipping the seats over it sitting there, one would assume up to 150, This is the part here that can only take this section off. And there's another hatch in the back. And that's where all your jack tools are. more storage there and the jack lives right there. The other part 87l is what I've been stating, So there's an 80L tank why my fuel range is 900 That's pretty impressive. What I don't like, though, it now And my concern is having adblue 7000km or 6000km, Otherwise, I'm not actually sure Some vehicles they will literally not let you drive Should we go to Coles? Woolies? Aldi? Nah, take it off road straight away. Because I live and breathe this stuff. I often forget that many people probably don't know what I a swaybar The swaybar on the front of the vehicle but it also restricts It doesn't allow for too much flex, is generally pretty limited but the altitude has a sway which means when you go off road and you get more flex. I'll explain this a bit more in the off road video, So now I've got sway bar straight into its full potential. Nothing like getting a brand new vehicle see even with sway bar Disconnect. We're Now, See sawing. There we go. Yeah i don't know if that sway bar disconnect Really did Let's try with the sway bar Connected and It should be worse. Okay, so no sway bar disconnect. How are we looking? Actually, there is a difference. Definitely feel more tippy. So let's. That 100% makes a difference. Sway bar. Disconnect. Come back please. I'm throwing we go. There's a big difference, I guess. Why would you put it in Yeah. Look at this. That will be sketchy, as without that. That's more flex than a 70 with IFS.... It's not hard to get more flex THAN a 70, Just getting it out there Yeah, it's all good, but you can't make The sway bar disconnect. Let's try it out on some proper stuff to B across some rocks, the beach, run, Even though we've already done some, today, 3 or 4 hours It absorbs it quite well. It needs a proper flogging. And speaking of first impressions, and the 48 volt system? How does it work? The engine seems to make more of a grunty sound. 48 volt assisted motor. What does that actually mean? Well, in the back of the vehicle, The battery is under there. Now, this battery is a 48 volt battery This also powers all the accessories So why is it 48 volt? It's there to assist the vehicle though The car turned off There we go straight away going and it doesn't burn out but it also gives you a bit of a kick off Which means you go that tiny little bit faster, That's the best way to explain it, doesn't give you more torque. I'll cover this way more in another video. How do I feel about the start stop? When I test drove the hilux, I persevered with it But now that I've bought this I got the option to turn it It's pretty instant hey... When I picked this vehicle up, knew And it feels 150 and the hilux and the 70 The interesting thing is but sixth gear in this vehicle which means there's still only two I'm able to hold eighth gear at 100 and is sitting just below 1500 r.p.m.. Here's my first annoyance with this car. I needed the driver doors unlocked. That's pretty annoying. I just want to get a camera. The other thing I would change is the back door. Are you kidding me? So it must automatically lock That's the other thing I would change. Can you imagine that? Say 4am in the morning. Or you get home at midnight. Good morning everyone. Good morning everyone. Good morning everyone. That's how loud this beep is... I wonder how you can fix that Yeah, that... NAH. Nah. Oh, you know what? There is this as well. So I guess unless you need to get something big out, Actually. I would still stop the beeping though. that screen is so damn bright. Why can't I adjust it? That's not really cool, I had to pull up, to be able to adjust it. locking out the system so you can't adjust You're driving. This screen is so freaking bright so you want to adjust it, but you can't Safety is basically gone It just blows my mind. The cool it comes out with 32.5in tires, 33 inch tires are legal and 34 inch tires, technically legal in many states and territories. That's pretty cool. Which means it's geared for it too. so it might actually be able to run 35's with a bit of massaging, as well as the 76 series LandCruiser. Time will tell. There's a few LandCruiser tweaks happening Did you know that this vehicle shares the same wheelbase 105, 200 300? They all share that same wheelbase The other interesting thing I've noticed on the back Land Cruiser like all the previous Prado. Okay, I know they all say Land What I'm meaning to say is, it seems like the word Land Cruiser Also, the T badge, T badge being the Toyota Previous versions used this badge being In your mind, is this now Because clearly