ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to where we discuss science for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Dr. Norton is one of in protein metabolism, He did his degrees in sciences and is considered in understanding how we and how exercise and what we like body composition Today, we discuss an under the umbrella of including, for instance, That is, how do we actually We also discuss the of artificial sweeteners, they are safe or not they are an effective in particular, for from obesity and different We also talk about gut health-- and how it's impacted it can actually impact the that we eat. We also discuss fasting, or or time-restricted and what it does not do in is for weight loss and, perhaps, We also talk about protein how much protein each depending on our daily We discuss the that you've probably including ketogenic diets, and pure carnivore diets, as diets, and how to get all of the that are critical for healthy loss, or directed muscle gain. We also talk about supplements, for which there is an immense to their safety and and for overall What I'm sure will as you hear Layne and every one of that he has an incredible the mechanistic science applications of the various in particular papers in the randomized That is when a given scientific He's extremely good at but also at evaluating it works in the is what I believe most everybody I think this is one of distinguishes him in the nutritional landscape. I assure you that by the you will have a much clearer the science says about and about how different diets to achieve the Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to about science and to the general public. In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor is LMNT. LMNT is an electrolyte drink and nothing that you don't. That means it contains and magnesium, the so-called As you may have heard on this podcast, every and in particular the so-called neurons critically rely on the sodium, magnesium, and to function properly. I, myself, am a big believer any time I've been so that could be or after doing the sauna. So by drinking electrolytes in mix, I'm able to replenish and maintain mental clarity LMNT contains a science ratio of 1,000 milligrams of potassium, and 60 If you'd like to try an LMNT, spelled L-M-N-T-- .com/huberman your purchase. Again, that's to get the free sample pack. Today's, episode is also ROKA makes eyeglasses that are of the absolute The company was founded by from Stanford. And everything about ROKA were designed with I've spent a lifetime working on and I can tell you that to contend with an enormous for you to see clearly, from a sunny area and back again, whether or not close or often to the distance. ROKA understands the and has designed their accordingly so you always ROKA eyeglasses and designed for activities And indeed, they are Most of the time, I that they're on my face. They're so lightweight. But the important thing to and sunglasses is can be used during they also have a and they can be used just as to dinner, et cetera. If you'd like to try ROKA you can go to roka-- .com and enter the code Huberman order. Again, that's roka-- R-O-K-A-- Huberman at checkout. Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data to help you better and help you reach Now, I've long been a believer work done for the simple reason impact your immediate can only be analyzed with One of the major issues tests out there, however, is about levels of hormones, levels of metabolic don't know what to do With InsideTracker, they that allows you to and then determine what and nutritional changes, changes you might to bring those numbers are optimal for you. If you'd like to you can go to to get 20% off any of Again, that's inside tracker The Huberman Lab with Momentous supplements. To find the supplements we podcast, you can go to livemomentous.com/huberman. And I should just of those supplements is Again, that's And now, for my discussion Layne, Dr. Norton, thank This is a long time coming. And I have to say, I'm really in the social media sphere. I've also listened to a And as a fellow PhD scientist, I know you have in fitness and nutrition, We also got a lot of And I'm really looking forward LAYNE NORTON: Yeah, I mean, like you said, we've been talking So I was glad we were ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, indeed. And I think some requested a debate or a battle. And I can tell you right now, Actually, one of the things that in conversation online and was the fact that I and that's what happened. I did a post about we will talk about a little and Layne pointed out some areas or, maybe, even misunderstood. And I revised my opinions And other studies have So hopefully, our serve as a message of how can be perceived and have to be a battle. But hey, if we get into It won't get physical because So in any case, I'd like that's rather basic and and that's this issue of energy I think most people I am assuming that most know what that is in what it represents. And so maybe you for people what happens when and how is that into energy, as a way of framing loss, weight maintenance, weight LAYNE NORTON: So it's And like you said, this is one use the term calories and they say, well, I'm like, if you look at what calories out, it's So let's deal with what What is the calorie? Because I think a lot of people So a calorie just refers to specifically. And so what does that What does that have to do Really, what you're is the potential is in the bonds of the And by digesting, those nutrients, we energy and the in-product is ATP, adenosine triphosphate, currency. So to understand ATP, if you're trying to power in your body-- and we're talking of enzymes that require ATP-- it doesn't make have to create a bunch You want something that can to power these essentially its energy that might otherwise So a lot of metabolism ATP, which the end I'm going to work called oxidative respiration. So that happens in Everybody's heard mitochondria, And that is done through ion gradient across powers the production free phosphate plus ATP to ADP. Now the way that hydrogen is through creating hydrogen through the Krebs cycle. Now the Krebs cycle is So if we talk about carbohydrates basically, get converted into glucose, and you can produce some And then it boils then acetyl-CoA, which produces a lot more If you talk about is a little bit different to amino acids, for muscle protein synthesis in other tissues. But it also can be converted to glucose. And there also are some And so you can have to get to the Krebs cycle. Either being through glucose going through the Then you have fatty acids, through what's called beta you're taking these fatty off two carbons at a time again, can go into produce those hydrogen power the production of ATP. So that's kind of like of how this stuff works. But stepping back and what does that have to do with Well, when you think about in versus energy out. Sounds very simple. But let's look at energy in versus energy out. First of all, you've that the energy is more difficult to So one, food labels, to think as being can have up to a ANDREW HUBERMAN: Really? LAYNE NORTON: Oh, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: something listed as 100 it could-- what's actually LAYNE NORTON: Right. Exactly. So that's one aspect of it. The second aspect is there's but then there's also So if you have food stuff with typically, insoluble fiber and so you could have &quot;quite but if you can't extract and typically, this is from plant material, the some of the protein is bound up makes it inaccessible And so this is what adds bulk But again, reduces the And there's some on people's individual gut may actually be better at compared to other people. So just starting OK, there's quite a bit of play Now, one of the is, well, see that's about tracking calories, because And what I'll say is, OK. I understand where But typically, if it's off, it's And if you're consistent eventually, you'll be able to And that's like saying, well, if you're-- I like to use We know that to to earn more money Well, you can't exactly you're earning at a time and then there is-- if you have investments, those and whatnot. It's like, OK, if you have a reasonable idea And you make but you can relatively guess. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. That's a good example. LAYNE NORTON: Right. So now, let's look of the equation, which is And so your energy out is The first one and is your resting metabolic rate. So your RMR. And that, for most people, of your total daily Now, people use the term expenditure interchangeably, So your total daily is the summation of all the ANDREW HUBERMAN: exercise if you do it-- LAYNE NORTON: Fidgeting. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Plus your resting LAYNE NORTON: Right. So resting metabolic rate but it's not the only thing. So that's usually And sedentary people will be So it'll be a bigger who are more active, it'll because their metabolic but because they're percentage of their calories Then you have something of food, which is a of your total daily It's about 5% to 10%. And very difficult to what researchers do when they just make an They use a constant. But that's about 5% to 10% of And that refers to it takes to extract So think about your You don't just have and it spontaneously starts up. You have to have a battery can get the energy that you have in your car. Similar with food, you and then it just and you start doing stuff. It has to be down and put into forms that And so you have to put some And a lot of times, like, well, not all That's not true, because calorie That would be like saying are created equal. Yes, they are. All sources of calories may have expenditure and appetite. So if we look at something the TEF of fat is Meaning, if you eat your net will be ANDREW HUBERMAN: So the that fat, essentially, away because you used LAYNE NORTON: Correct. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --by to create ATP. LAYNE NORTON: Correct. Correct. So you have like, for example, ATP to run these processes. Now, fat is actually the easiest Then you have has a TEF of like 5% to 10%. So you eat 100 calories And obviously, the fiber content But if you eat 100 Protein is about So if you eat you're only netting 70 to 80. Now, you're still net-- people say, well, you Well, people will ask, well, The carbon's from it's going to wind But if you're eating overall as part of a lot of and it can't provide a calorie to be stored in fat. But protein itself does provide but less so than And tends to be more satiating. So again, when people talk about yes, but all sources have differential effects and appetite. So that's the TEF bucket Then we go to physical activity. And physical activity is, There's exercise, which is kind like you go out for a walk, I mean, whatever. Any purposeful activity. And then you have which is non-exercise activity is actually really cool. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. It is. So I was actually hanging and I was noticing them, their feet and their fingers. And I said, have you And they were like, had a problem And when you look at the people think they exercise a lot and really They tend to-- if they spontaneously increase Now, people get NEAT confused. I've heard people say, for a walk to get my NEAT up. That's not NEAT. NEAT is not something you What you're doing there, if So for example, if I'm waving around my if I'm-- whatever. That's NEAT. But trying to get yourself-- I'm just going to well, now if I'm to do this, then my focus-- I mean, you know Very hard to do-- you don't really do ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. LAYNE NORTON: You switch ANDREW HUBERMAN: Absolutely. Can I quickly ask, was the to our friend Ben Bruno? LAYNE NORTON: No, no. But he is fidgety too. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Amazing online fitness channel. He's a freakishly LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. And I can't remember Ben, you're a fidgetter or not. But anyway, I'll and we'll measure About non-exercise induced my understanding of the old I guess, back to that the calorie burn from NEAT We're not talking about 100 per day. We're talking about, hundreds of thousand-- excuse close to 1,000 calories per day. Could you elaborate on that? LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So there was actually a really I want to say it's It was metabolic ward study. And hopefully, I don't because I'm trying to ANDREW HUBERMAN: I don't expect Although, I must say, you have grab bag in there. So-- LAYNE NORTON: I try I try to bring the receipts. ANDREW HUBERMAN: We will put a note captions. So people can peruse it LAYNE NORTON: So I believe And I think it was by and I think for six weeks. And I mean, this is So this is very It's as tight as you get. And what was interesting people gained weight But some people gained and there was one person, in like just over 1/2 a kilo. They should have gained like-- I think it was something It was predicted. And what they found just spontaneously increased He didn't purposefully And I mean, people who are, again, sit down, and start sweating. And be very fidgety. There was a natural named Jim Cordova. And this guy was just and he was exactly He would walk up and all of a sudden Sit down eat a He's just-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's a furnace. LAYNE NORTON: Just And what's very is that seems to be I mean, exercise because you can be But of BMR, TEF, to be far more modifiable. So even a bodyweight they've observed of almost 500 calories a day for Now, you also do when you lose weight, in a smaller body now and to lock them out. But also there's what's called is a further reduction from the loss of body mass. And that's on average But it does seem to be-- there's new evidence coming from BMR. And it seems to kind of in the So if you start a diet you will have a reduction thereafter, any is mostly from the amount And then if you, like for and move your calories within a few weeks, BMR There is still a but I used to be that BMR, metabolic a big reason why people stopped And now, I think it's ANDREW HUBERMAN: Interesting. And you said that it because that will distract I don't know if you've had a And I'll send it to you. Maybe I'd be fun to do a kind about this at some point soon. But there's a study that came recently having people do, now, Four hours a day of, basically, is basically a heel raise. A seated catchphrase with And then they of things about glucose clearance and insulin levels. And they didn't burned a ton of they concluded was that blood greatly. And I think, there was about this at some on everything you're telling with what's known about neat. So this fell somewhere in between, excuse me, and spontaneous movement. I guess they've tried to make a little bit more conscious. LAYNE NORTON: Well, people is if you're one thing you can do, for example where people told me I burned They are not accurate I mean, it is like, there I want to say, overestimation of energy ANDREW HUBERMAN: Fitness track. So for those of you not going to name the brand. But fitness trackers-- so LAYNE NORTON: And this ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. LAYNE NORTON: So like it could be more or overestimated the amount of-- the calories you So this is actually a great calories in, calories because I eat in a calorie When I talk to went to an online calculator. It's a few things. They went to an in their information, it spat and they ate that and And it's like, well, what That you're defying the laws or that you might the right number for you? ANDREW HUBERMAN: The LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. The next thing is a lot of And I'll tell people going to make an intentional and again, this can be but typically, I in, first thing in the go to the bathroom, and take the average And then compare that to ANDREW HUBERMAN: Can I ask but one quick question go to the bathroom not unnecessarily, but are you and emptying your bowels? Ideally, because you did eat LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Got it. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So wake up, that you're ready, and take that measurement, average maybe every Monday, and see how it progresses. LAYNE NORTON: All right. And the reason I recommend sporadically weighing in, as pretty regularly, will fluctuate 5, 6 pounds, and And that's just-- those So I've had it before, my average didn't change. But between the lowest weigh and the highest weigh in, might So if you're somebody who and you're eating in and you just weigh in whatever reason holding some see, this isn't working when might be dropping. So that's one of the believe it or not, are actually identified as a discouraged from weight loss. It stops the buy-in, when So that's one of the reasons-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Great point. LAYNE NORTON: --one on that low carb diets well is because people really quickly, and So they're, oh, this is working. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. We can return to because I have theories when people eat they excrete more for the first time, they'll see oh, my God, this diet's amazing. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And the fluid I think fluid loss can It might make people although it can be-- it I do have one quick do want-- we will return But when you say, as a consequence to ask about the caloric So for instance, if and they'll see, OK, Actually, I think where a number of like Bert Kreischer, Tom I think they call but in addition to they're burning 500 calories LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: A lot of people do this. They think-- they take excuse me, take stock of how My understanding is that if is a muscle building that at some point later, there if you did everything and then you will as a consequence of That's a long process But I have heard about this in oxidative metabolism. I'm probably not using the So if I were to go out, for Run hard for a minute, jog for and do that 10 times over. Let's assume I burn 400 calories But my understanding is that my basal metabolic rate Is that true, and is to care about? LAYNE NORTON: So answer Yes, there does seem in metabolic rate, appear to be enough to So when they look at-- and again, this is I think I have a good because my undergraduate degree So I was very into mechanisms. You know what I mean? It was like, oh, if we just do And then I did nutrition and then my advisor was so great over here and he could tell vitamin D metabolism over here. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Yeah, Don Lemon. So he would always but what's the outcome So this is actually one of the Was I used to be I think high intensity interval because you get this which they do see in But in the meta analyzes and where they equate work between and moderate or low intensity they don't see differences And so to me, if I'm the example of a we're seeing this small increase that should lead to But again, remember, you're But we don't see a difference So what may be happening-- and But a way to explain it could and then you might actually to just wash it out, right? ANDREW HUBERMAN: I see. And I have to imagine This would be highly individual, than others. So for instance, if I go out A 45 to 60-minute hike or make it a point to do that or Throw on a weight vest and hike. After that, I find I'm very But I'm not that hungry. And that's true of all But after I weight train, I want to eat the refrigerator. And so obviously, dictates that that will whether or not I gain or So is it safe to say that that people choose needs to Calories in, calories is burned during the exercise? Also how much that exercise I don't know whether this in their rigorous studies. And whether or not actually increases lean Now, we've taken into a number of but this is what you are parsing how the different and together. So if you would I'd love to know LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So this is actually a So first thing, I to talking about like, for we're going to do 500 So those apparatuses effectively either. Just like these watches. But the one thing I will like for example, if I do two typically, this will say I ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's a LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: are warm up for 10 minutes and LAYNE NORTON: I just-- I love to train. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. And you can recover from. My recovery quotient So I've been training and I found that if I of hard work in the gym, 75 minutes maybe, I'm OK, but maybe even three days My nervous system just So I limit it to LAYNE NORTON: And part of I've built up to that over So you couldn't just throw having them do two hours a day. It's not going to ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and acknowledge one of our Athletic Greens, now called AG1, drink that covers all of your I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still or usually twice a day, is that I need for gut health. Our gut is very by gut microbiota with the brain, the immune all the biological to strongly impact our And those probiotics are optimal and vital In addition, Athletic of adaptogens, that make sure that all of my needs are met. And it tastes great. If you'd like to you can go to and they'll give packs that make it Athletic Greens while you're on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year's Again, that's to get the five free travel of vitamin D3, K2. LAYNE NORTON: But I will say if I'm used to-- OK, I usually burn about 1,000 it's not accurate. But if I go in tomorrow and I do I don't know what but I can be relatively more than the previous session. And so in terms might be OK, like And then the other thing I was, if you're worried about can be helpful because people decrease when they're they don't even realize it. And that, again, not of NEAT, but what we've had building coaches is, they'll right now. We're not going to add But whatever you need to do do that. And sometimes, they have to add because they're spontaneous even aware of goes down. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's I've heard the 10,000 we all heard that. And then I learned that, 10,000 as an arbitrary number. So we're like get eight-hour there's a story behind spoke to Satchin, that the graduate did that initial study, which was limited to being in by their significant other. So the eight-hour feeding window of this person's relationship. So-- LAYNE NORTON: That is that people don't realize will try to copy like And I'll tell people like, so confined. You need to be very careful apply what's in there. Like they're a very big hammer They're not a scalpel, And I think, a lot of scientific studies will rather than what to do, right? But getting back about exercise, I'm not really aware if like differential effects of on appetite, it's possible, could be like a Because we-- like for example, where the muscle well, as soon as you you have your biggest And when I say placebo people have the wrong idea of They think that's Placebo effect can actually People don't realize this. There's research showing of suggestion is as some pharmaceuticals. And one of the great examples there was a study we just on creatine where not supplemented with creatine, with creatine, not they were supplemented, told they weren't, Basically, it just matters ANDREW HUBERMAN: Really. LAYNE NORTON: Oh, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have to get this can link to a colleague She's been on the podcast. I'd love to introduce think you guys really riff. First of all, she was and then as runs a lab at This is Alia Crum. And she's-- and grew up in and very, very smart. And her laboratory focuses on where if you tell people all do to you in terms of functioning and then you they perform well If you tell them that in the short term, is this powerful tune up a number of memory And it's remarkable. And it's consistent. And they've done this for any including food Incredible results. In any case, I'm so glad I take creatine monohydrate, 5 grams a day. I don't-- LAYNE NORTON: And it's great. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And it's great. And I believe it's great. So is there a compound effect and it actually being great? LAYNE NORTON: Not in this study. So I think the people will misinterpret that And that's not what that says. What it says is, your are probably just as So they actually did a study-- and I don't have the I think, within where they told people on anabolic steroids. And wouldn't you know it, even though they weren't they had better gains than were anabolic steroids. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Amazing. LAYNE NORTON: And that's Strength, lean body mass, So when people say, fall for the placebo you don't have to fall for it. If you believe it to be is very, very powerful. And as a scientist, I wish, so that I could subject more often. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: So that's just a possible And I'm the same way, like like a resistance training I'm ready to eat. Now, if you look overall on exercise it's not always Consistently, it seems to show an appetite suppressant effect. So people don't at least fully for the And there is some you've probably heard a really poor weight loss tool. If you figure out you should be burning you end up getting less weight ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have is perfectly happy to eat less, but dislikes exercise. And they're of healthy weight. But I'm always encouraging And so this is an ongoing battle LAYNE NORTON: Well, is that, exercise that happens with your body So exercise is one of the improve your without even losing weight. So those-- it will improve inflammation, all that stuff. So everybody out there looking exercises the hack, right? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Crucial point. And our mutual friend has gone on record that of all the things NMN, et cetera, metformin. Regardless of whether or not those, that the positive by way of biomarkers from far outweighs all of Not that those things we're not going through but that exercise thing we can do for our LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. Absolutely. I 100% agree. And when you're talking people miss the point There's some work that came as well that basically if you do 100 calories you have a 28-calorie reduction in response to that. So it's kind of like this model. But what I would say is, OK, So it's still OK, is, I think the effects are actually more due to So if you look at people who for a number of years, because most people don't keep of them engage in Of people who do not like maintain weight loss, less So now that's just That doesn't necessarily But there are some showing that exercise to satiety signals. So basically, you can have but you're more sensitive And there's actually from the 1950s in where they looked at, basically, of activity. So you had sedentary, lightly heavily active. Basically, based on And they didn't have They just wanted to track did they actually eat. So it was like a J-shaped curve. So the sedentary than the lightly active But from lightly active they almost perfectly they should be eating. So to me, that suggests, you can actually regulate your more appropriately than ANDREW HUBERMAN: this has to do with brain centers that from the periphery, think it has to do with changes What I was taught, and I considered true, is that will trigger a desire to kind of exactly the opposite have a spike in blood sugar. And there's this get into this when we talk This is the idea in mind. I think I adopted, perhaps, that's sweeter, that and you are suddenly on the And I could imagine if it is increasing could be working a LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. I think it's-- I think the effect is probably The effects on blood sugar-- the research out there is not driving appetite. Now, if you become hypoglycemic, but it's a different kind of I feel kind of empty and Like those are-- but usually like the I feel like I'm You want to eat something not but because that you ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's like LAYNE NORTON: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I've done the longer I don't do anymore and There was probably an because coffee as you excrete And then just feeling This whole thing that's kind of desperation. I never want to be Hypoglycemia is LAYNE NORTON: It's not fun. So again, then when they look trials of implementing they're pretty they typically see people-- if anything, they eat less Now, some people, again, And there's individual So there are some people who that exercise makes That's completely valid. It could be their it could be a number but it's important to is individual variability. And I think one of learned to appreciate trying to separate We do this a lot and say, well, I don't care about And now I'm kind of appreciating Like with most things of the biopsychosocial model. And I'll give you A lot of people get really And if we could just that's part of it. But people don't just eat they eat for a lot of different especially. So can you remember the went to that didn't have food? ANDREW HUBERMAN: No. LAYNE NORTON: Right. If you look at dinner they're about this big. Now how big are dinner plates? ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: There's You're sitting down to watch TV. Oh, grab some popcorn, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I you know, how one person and then everyone I think there's a LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. And same thing, right? Like how many times have or have been experienced should have something-- especially, right? People-- I was hanging out and I had a beer and And I'm like, I feel no need to do that with me. You know what I mean? But as humans, We don't want to be in isolation on our own. Now, this is a very tenuous, But doing things during ancestral to set off your alarm system. Because if you don't you can't protect yourself. So typically, things were And I think that's a we tend to be just tribal in So the whole point to that why people eat, I to the point where I think that the main reason people eat. Stress, lack of sleep-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Boredom. LAYNE NORTON: --boredom. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: Absolutely. So unless we can addresses all those a line from a review paper-- this review paper is by a researcher And it's the best review It was called, biology's the impetus for weight regain. And basically went of these adaptations that and how biology's response to your previous. And I'm going to but at the end of the the body's systems are and well-focused on restoring And any attempt or any that doesn't attempt to of these things And so that's why when people you won't be hungry. Look, people don't just So I think really like and think about these things. And especially, when you I recently read a systematic loss maintainers, which I So they took people who had lost weight and kept it off for, And it basically asked to identify commonalities. And there were expected like cognitive exercise. And then one of the that I found really fascinating between people. They said, I had to So are you familiar ANDREW HUBERMAN: No. LAYNE NORTON: So He's been in like remember the ANDREW HUBERMAN: I certainly LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So he was very large. He was like 550 pounds. And now he's like ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, LAYNE NORTON: 550 pounds. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Wow. LAYNE NORTON: And he post on his Instagram of I killed my clone today. And I asked him, is this Creating a new identity. And he said, this is exactly Because I had to kill who I was. Because there was to be able to make long didn't become a new person. Because I mean, and Like people who are alcoholics. They had to get new friends. They had to hang out because their entire around this lifestyle And I would actually argue or disordered eating patterns than other forms of addiction. And you think about Well, in some ways, bulimia and You can't stop eating. Like if you're alcoholic, If you become addicted you can abstain from that. You can never abstain from food. And so now imagine well, you've got to play this but no more. Like that's really challenging. So yeah. I just-- like all so important to be comprehensive ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. These are incredibly And to my knowledge, anyone has really described that you're doing here. So important for people because obviously, I think the nervous system our thoughts and feelings and therefore, of course, our are one and the same. It's bidirectional. Now, nowadays, there's a lot and particular gut-- brain axis and we But I really spelling out how there are Each one can account for a Exercise clearly has a both during the exercise and overall health And then this is that it can increase the I think that makes-- places very high on the should absolutely do. But there are other factors too. And the identity It reminds me also-- your Goggins who is-- he talks about his former almost as if it was And he uses language that But you know what? I've met David, know David is intense and driven as being as he appears He is that guy. But it does seem like he a former version of himself and And I think what your point does it through a similar seems to really matter. It's not like you defeat this and then that person you said, you know, I and that's the way that So this is a daily process. And I think this is not just a all these things. I think that what is fundamental, on each one of these about each one of them. But at the end of the day, as an individual. Sorry. You were about to say. LAYNE NORTON: That gets actually which is, why do we have such but more so keeping it off? Because of obese people, six will lose a significant amount So why do we still have They don't keep it off. Why don't they keep it off? When you look at the what it suggests is I am going to do a diet, and and they do not give any thought It's like think about if you or a diabetic. You can't just take insulin You've got to take it you're going to have problems. If you do a diet and you But if you then just go you're going to go back to You can't create a new while dragging your old habits So what I'll tell people is-- because people say, well, or I'm doing this And I'll say that's fine. Do you see yourself doing that And if the answer is believe that that's going and plenty of people, low carb, they say, I felt easy. I could do this forever. Great. If you're going to lose weight, of restriction-- whether it is carb, low fat, a intermittent fasting any form or calorie restriction-- tracking macros, whatever. So you get to pick the So pick the form feels the least restrictive and also do not feel the same for everybody else Whereas it's like, And so I allow myself to I allow myself to But I track everything, and composition and be in Now, doesn't feel hard for me. Part of it, I've just But to other people, They don't want to-- they say, well, I'd rather If that feels easy for them, that-- there was a couple of And basically, what they were all equally terrible But when they stratified them were better for But when they according from lowest there it was a linear So really what it the diet that's going to be in the long term and you And people-- again, this is the 10,000-foot view. Somebody will say, to do ketogenic because I want and I want to do this. And they're talking about and everything. And that's great. Can you do it for the Is this going to be something And if the answer need to rethink what your ANDREW HUBERMAN: Incredibly Basically, that. If I could highlight-- if there or boldface and underline I would highlight-- boldface and And for those of listen to it twice, because it's absolutely key. I think it also explains a lot that exists out there. I think it also crosses over I almost want to say, that you think you can stick ideally forever. And pick your placebo is a lot of placebo and every one of these things-- Probably even vegan versus LAYNE NORTON: Well, they even period where you go into a about it and like and then what happens, without exception is once you get past few starts waiting and going off. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Here about a form of relationship. I'm not saying that Actually, we had a guest early Deisseroth, he's a psychiatrist Tremendously successful. Alaska award winner, et cetera. And he talked about love as a of our psychology that you co-create with into the future of that story. When you pair up was referring to romantic this sort of mutual agreement going to live into. So it's not just about how it's also that you project I'm seeing a lot of functional and effective diet. And I love it. I'm not setting this I'm setting up because I boils down to what you is that the brain and our are going to stick to are LAYNE NORTON: I think one thing when you look at the research time-restricted eating versus equated, doesn't seem to loss, fat loss, and most Same thing for low Fewer quick calories There was a meta analysis done where they looked at the-- and And another important there was 22 studies in this. But all of them provided That's important because can be much higher whereas various free you can see funky results. ANDREW HUBERMAN: People or they're just not really-- LAYNE NORTON: It's ANDREW HUBERMAN: that the study would LAYNE NORTON: getting like continuous studies where they to people like every have pretty good adherence. I mean, that's expensive And again, like what limits and money. But the low carb versus low are equated, basically, Now, some people get But it's like-- like-- this is great because you The one tool, it that much better than another. So pick the one Whatever lever you've got a bunch ANDREW HUBERMAN: You that you can stick to Is there ever a case look, I like to eat low carb and then switch to a caloric maintenance type Is there any downside for sake of health or or weight maintenance over time? Because I realize not everyone And I definitely at some point, how to Because I think there are of people out there who Yeah. Is there any downside Keto for a few months for a few months, et cetera? LAYNE NORTON: I think that's especially to like, you feel is easiest for you. But in terms of as a some people just might but like, oh, change And you feel a little bit ANDREW HUBERMAN: And LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So I don't think it's how I initially for somebody, I just like to have some as long as they're still like-- their behaviors and they're or whatever it is, and a calorie deficit or depending I don't think there's I do think the one thing when you look at like so like low fat to low there can be, in that of weirdness for lack Like for example, if you've of a sudden, you move you'll be basically for just a short period of time. Now, is that going to Probably not in the long term, controlling calories. But just because your body has dealing mostly with fat rather than glucose if you start taking glucose like for example, you get tolerance test after they'll do pretty But that doesn't last that long. ANDREW HUBERMAN: About how long? LAYNE NORTON: A few weeks. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think that's because I have a feeling are the period of time go running back to what Which is not to say that they done that. I've tried very low and I would have assumed-- and now I know I'm but I assumed that I was for so long that my is a good thing, would have gone and I would be able to just that I would have ingested So I did indeed switch over. And I felt like I had I even got some jitters. And I thought, what is this? My blood sugar was low should be in more But based on what upregulated the in the body for fat and then switching over-- there was basically a ramping up presumably in glycolysis. LAYNE NORTON: Transition period. I mean, think about if you and you start weight going to feel pretty terrible. Like you're going and all that kind of stuff. But I will say, you aren't you said about being because it depends on how you So if you measure with something or fasting insulin those tend to be pretty But then if you do it all it tends to be pretty bad. And so it depends on So I think that makes you glucose intolerant I think, again, it's And I'm not too But it is something And one of the reasons was to transition out if I'm working with them are working with instruct them to do it like over like a four to That way, hopefully, they're of two weeks where do I feel so terrible? ANDREW HUBERMAN: A I want to go to the other end and talk about gut until now, and certainly-- LAYNE NORTON: I see what ANDREW HUBERMAN: And certainly we've been talking a lot The brain, the psychology, but the very real not that I can imagine 2,000 and somehow change the Can't do that. But we've been a lot of different maintenance and weight gain. But gut health, at least on gut health, have blown a For instance, this idea that and literally give them fecal and yes, that sounds Fecal transplants definitely in which it comes out. And I point that out because that they-- and it was kind of this is not about they literally do a transplant into obese mice and the And yes, this has Limited number of studies and effects on weight loss could be related They might have told these you're going to get lean from lean people. But more likely, on their core physiology. I don't know which I can speculate which ones. And they became leaner. They lost weight. And that is, in some sense, the important role of psychology signals, because I'm going to for a number of those although no study is perfect. What are your thoughts as it relates to metabolism, and balance? LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So the first thing I'll say is but I will-- I feel relatively comfortable on conversations I've had one being Suzanne you're familiar with her? ANDREW HUBERMAN: of a phenom in this area LAYNE NORTON: So doing her masters when I was So she was one of my lab mates. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Terrific. LAYNE NORTON: And the is, even gut health experts, they're like, talk We just know so little. I think that's an overall thing is the scientific consensus for good reason. Because if we just flipped on one study, I mean, So it's going to take understand the implications So when it comes to weight is a role in there. I mean, we've seen that Now, whether that's-- is microbiome make makeup that's it extracts less calories Or perhaps, it's elevating BMR. Although, I think that that's ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do you the way satiety signals are? LAYNE NORTON: So that's-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I mean, LAYNE NORTON: --so that's-- in the gut brain axis. And so my suspicion is working via So I mean, if we look at treatments out there, I mean, you on average loss of body and people keep it off. That is a GLP-1 mimetic And it, basically, just is a suppressant. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I but hopefully, with a purpose. There's this really And it's in mice, in a neuroscience And basically, the takeaway in neuroscience, the GLP-1 In the brain, it seems in the hypothalamus So exactly what you're saying. And in the gut, an activation of the So the perception is that the I should say, not think people who take I don't know, they might. But that one feels as if because these mechanical are sending signals oh, I actually have some food. I'm not empty down there. LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Anyway, mostly because every time I having an effect, we think it But it's kind of interesting like appetite regulation, body and brain in parallel. Anyway, forgive me. LAYNE NORTON: That's great. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You can tell And here you are telling that a lot, perhaps, mechanisms of satiety. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. I mean, I think that-- and especially looking at you we used to think, like liver-based metabolism in the adipocyte But none of this stuff There's so much crosstalk And that's-- when we though one of the things But one of the is keep in mind that when like when I say talking about physical outcomes changes in blood though that is the of different mechanisms. So sure, sometimes, you can and you get straight down the Whenever you make a treatment it's like throwing It creates ripples. And we don't always know And that's why-- I mean, what works on this pathway. And then they list off And you go, well, how would it Because nothing-- they don't just There's multitude And to your point and the effects on it's probably why report actually low grade nausea Because of that. Because if you're-- that feeling comfortable feeling, but I mean, So I think there's absolutely but we haven't fully And we think about how I think I heard more cells in our microbiome by So we're actually more-- in terms of a cell we're actually more bacteria ANDREW HUBERMAN: There's who's one of the world He's in the lab upstairs And he has this idea-- it's just an idea that because than we are cells, the and who's the passenger? LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Maybe, they're exploiting us to take because they interact And so this idea that Lex Fridman will love this. That maybe human beings the vehicles for the microbiome Anyway, kind of a scary thought. Do you do anything specifically Are you a probiotic guy or a guy? LAYNE NORTON: So-- again, I'm down the line from from Suzanne and other experts. So if you want to improve gut levers-- the three biggest is not eating too many there is a connection and fiber. So it is-- of the dietary fiber seems to because it is what's So your gut microbiota can Although, there's actually some that they might be able to use I think Suzanne was doing a and actually seeing that of microbiota, flourish with that they may some kind of fuel out of it, But again, in mice-- So your gut these short chain fatty acids And there's quite that these volatile fatty actually reabsorbed that they have some Like for example, butyrate. When they've done they've actually seen positive So what we seem to understand to be better, fiber prebiotics seem to work ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Yes. So the problem with is they're typically to actually colonize. And even if you do colonize, let's say you colonize didn't really have much of. If you're not fueling it it's not going to stay anyway, going to starve. So the research seems to that eating enough fiber, that that is a better way se than probiotic. ANDREW HUBERMAN: What And I think-- I mean, I realize out there, but people some ideas as to how mimic what you're doing. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. And I would just say diversity. So there's various evidence sources-- fruits and vegetables, some whole grains, some cereals, So this is one of the have a good idea. If you know this is better than another we just know that fiber And one thing I'll like if you want a fiber is kind of If you look at some of there was actually a recent of over a million subjects. And basically, what it showed increase in fiber, there in the risk of mortality. And that extended, specifically, and cancer. So one of the things when they get like intermittent fasting or say, that's great, that's great. Are you eating like over ANDREW HUBERMAN: So if I were to eat a quarter plate of isn't stacked to the ceiling. The broccoli is just Approximately, how many If it's like two There's a lot. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So like 200 grams of broccoli, 5, 6 grams of fiber. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I need LAYNE NORTON: ANDREW HUBERMAN: Ideally. LAYNE NORTON: --typically, is is 15 grams intake because if you're it's difficult to But based on-- and again, But you can't do 20-year trials, unfortunately. That doesn't really appear for the benefits of fiber. It probably boils down to without feeling uncomfortable. Because if you're eating at some point, it's not ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Exercise becomes Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: And I actually a-- kind of touching on that A lot of people have kind of-- in the carnivore community said, you poop just fine without it. And I'll always say, well, to have fiber. Like yes, it does help. It does seem to make you can do it more frequently, But that's not why Why should eat fiber is because And some of the pushback is healthy user bias. And what I'll say is-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Meaning, and therefore it's working. LAYNE NORTON: Healthy people ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: And I mean, yeah. There's something to that. But if it was just typically, you would between the studies. And a great example of So not every study shows with cancer and mortality. There's differences depending depending on what they define whether it's But I have not found and cardiovascular disease where it did not show So to me, that suggests And so again, as much fiber I would try to do to have some really and is good for The other thing that for the microbiome is saturated fat may not be That it reduces the of the more positive And that appears to be not so itself but from the that combine with to have a negative of these more healthier But again, this is because we don't yet which species are positive or negative. And that's-- I mean, this gets where they may Sounds scary, but dysbiosis ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. LAYNE NORTON: It it doesn't tell you about whether the And so these are we need to keep in mind when That this stuff is still But in terms of the it's pretty much know about a healthy lifestyle. Exercise, don't eat too much, from diverse sources. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Fantastic. Fantastic because I like to think of as the And I'm starting to get your process is around selection being wholly, but as you mentioned, all having a positive effect it's pretty hard to refute that interesting there. LAYNE NORTON: And one thing one study-- I mean, sometimes based on a single well done and very powerful. But usually, one to move me just a little bit. And then maybe, if maybe a little bit more. And then like very slowly, I mean, my experience that's something I changed When I was younger, like circa the prevailing thought was, it's the ratio of LDL to And probably about and I was pretty strong and then five years ago randomization studies, I went, anymore. ANDREW HUBERMAN: What is LAYNE NORTON: So if you HDL is important because it's If you have high that you are metabolically You very rarely will you which is inflammatory marker Almost exclusively, will have good biomarkers But if you take it doesn't reduce your risk In Mendelian which Mendelian uses natural randomization. So some people are, naturally higher secreted secretions of HDL. And we talked about do a 20-year human And when you're trying like heart disease, I mean, that It's very unlikely to pick out differences between five years. I mean, people don't develop-- typically, don't until they're in their What Mendelian randomization OK, we have these people who So we can stratify those and So if you look at people versus high secrete some of the other key you don't see an effect ANDREW HUBERMAN: Of LDL. LAYNE NORTON: Of HDL. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Got it, OK. LAYNE NORTON: But and you look at the it is like a linear And we know that it's but it's more tends to track with And if you look I mean, we know that LDL can so there's the If we look at the supports that it's an and then, again, these studies where we can over a lifetime, and then we effect. To me, that was to change my mind on And then if you look at look at high-- if you like stratify, like both groups looking at So if you have you will still be lower who is high HDL and high LDL. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So LAYNE NORTON: The Same thing with inflammation. If you look at people who are they'll have a lower are low inflammation, high LDL. So again, that was sufficient But it took-- it was like It was, OK, then there was another study, ans then another I go, OK, well, now, I or I'm, basically, just going and say, nope, I don't And so I think that's one of People will say, oh, are you Very rarely will I call because data is just data. But the issue becomes and how broadly it's applied or by people on-- fitness influencers. And what I'll do and say, OK, let's consider And then it's not a bad be careful about how broadly ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Well, and I think you are in position to be able into their proper for lack of a better of how the psychology physiology relate And so on. In fact, I think that your and then training as in Don Lemon, who was pushing I think that's a of the continuum at which Because for those of you know a lot of laboratory for instance, in the or in vitro studies, you'll can be quite dramatic. And then the assumption take-- you take the that molecule in a and then you'll get the effect level. The person will lose weight, the animal will not have But it just doesn't work that and this interplay. LAYNE NORTON: Well, a is, so my research was All my studies on protein in particular, is Well, we know if it increases muscle But we also know if you people don't get more muscular. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I LAYNE NORTON: So as always-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: is supplement with leucine? LAYNE NORTON: Right. Right, right. And so how is that possible? Muscle building is not It's also the balance between And degradation just happens to measure. But a great example-- and again, one of the was actually changed which I think is interesting. So before, I had been like, eat every two ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Yeah when ANDREW HUBERMAN: In grams of protein per meal? LAYNE NORTON: Get that was the idea, right? Like just have an IV ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Not really, yeah. But that was the concept. But the first study that I did, a lot of people had measured the in response to a meal. We wanted to see, how and where does it peak, right? And so my thought was, OK. Well, it'll probably For those that are is the amino acid that responsible for increasing you eat protein. So it's one of the So we wanted to see, OK, how So we fed these and again, I thought, OK, well, stay up that, will be how long And so we got the protein and it was peaked at Peaked from 45 to was back down to And so when I went to do my shock was, at three hours, plateaued out. And then I said, look at the initiation factors, So for those not of the mTOR signaling pathway. So one of the-- of mTOR, when it's stimulated-- Two of the targets of mTOR are a And then another one is called So I don't want to get because it's going But basically, when these things it increases the rate of translation initiation the process of the ribosome and then starting So I was looking at of 4E-BP1 and RPS6. I was like, OK, see these things come Still plateaued. And so then it was like, So I actually kept rerunning and rerunning the data. And I'll never forget, I And this is like six done this study, because I was like, so where are we I said, well, I just got to because it's not right. And he's like, well, And I said, well, make any sense you know. And I kind of went through, your technique. How are you doing this? And I described it, how is your standard error? And I told him what the it sounds like it's good data. He said, it sounds to get the data to and you need to change your And that statement-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: This LAYNE NORTON: This ANDREW HUBERMAN: You LAYNE NORTON: This is why I because I have had so many of right? So we actually ended up-- this kind of effect, is called muscle protein So basically, like once runs for a defined and then it takes time for lack of a better term. It's also been referred to So I looked at that eating every two hours then? And there was even a study I think, where they infused for six hours. Protein synthesis went came back down 120, and ANDREW HUBERMAN: But I would have thought that up and then comes back down, be exactly the thing you would to get increased protein be pinging the LAYNE NORTON: But the problem are still elevated. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So like eating the whole way of leucine. LAYNE NORTON: From ANDREW HUBERMAN: Got it. LAYNE NORTON: So that was I said, you know what? I'm actually going to eat eating in three hours out plasma amino acids. And we looked at We looked at intracellular wasn't falling off, it wasn't. We looked at all the plasma, because we were thinking, is sucking some of these and they're dropping to short circuit the system. That wasn't the case. It just-- essentially, I think we're the only So I'm not ready to say because I hold out the idea and you can't be totally sure. But we saw an around this mark where protein And we also saw a decrease And protein synthesis is And so what we think you're consuming you're increasing muscle and then at a enough effect on your energy that it short-- not short circuits it, So again, we're the That I'm aware of. And that was again, in rats. So I always talk about data. Like, there's data I'm my foot on, my leg I'd probably barely bet the end I'm not quite sure. But it's interesting So-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: A LAYNE NORTON: --that's a looking at this mechanism and if we just looked oh, well, protein elevated for past three hours. But that's not what we saw. So yeah. I think, it's, again, that's to say, well, let's-- mechanisms are important. And especially, if it's important to that may explain that. But let's step back from trying to chase mechanisms. And let's look at in terms of what we ANDREW HUBERMAN: In terms of chasing outcomes, are interested in weight And several times throughout we've come back to this Whether or not there are or both. Not wanting to eat to maintain or lose don't want to. I heard you mention and maybe specific types of may provide better than other macronutrients. Could you briefly talk including protein, but also impact satiety. And from the who, for instance, would a few pounds,&quot; right? Probably would be happy to gain provided it was in a on their body, that Directed hypertrophy, And how much they should focus of creating this diet. Assuming everything else They're going to hit the relative to their How should we think about And are animal sources more bioavailable? That's a tricky word. For sake of muscle for sake of somebody who just They don't want to like to bring their LAYNE NORTON: So ANDREW HUBERMAN: --or more. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. A lot of things to unpack there. Of the macronutrients, the biggest lever that you it doesn't take a ton of protein building benefits. I mean, I think start to plateau out around of body weight. There's some evidence up to like 2.4 or may give a little I think it probably like an asymptote where as you put you always get a but it just gets to the point small benefit that it's for all ANDREW HUBERMAN: But you per kilogram of body consider that a threshold should try and achieve daily? LAYNE NORTON: I see very few I mean, I know some is going to get into a But I know some I don't want to stimulate going to make me die early. And I think, one of in mind is if you look at-- there's kind of out there that if that protein is going And first off, we have data to support that claim. And the second thing at any macronutrient can make a mechanistic argument So fat-- if you take flow-mediated dilation. Flow-mediated dilation is in the short term. Carbohydrates stimulate insulin. Insulin, you know, and all these other things. And so I can make an argument to be negative for longevity. I really want people-- this is something that They look at an acute and assume that is going to and signaling. So let's just take If you didn't know and I said to you, Andrew, that's going to make you-- your blood pressure go up, your your reactive oxygen species and it's going to damage your I'm not doing that. That sounds horrible. But it does all those But what is the long You actually get healthier. All those things improve. Now, I'm not saying that or anything like that, I think some of there are based on mechanistic-- this increases mTOR, therefore I think it is a much more that. So there's that. So protein is the biggest lever. I would shoot for 1.6 If you can do more, great. There doesn't seem to be Even up to very high Jose Antonio did a year-long randomized And again, it's just one year. But they were looking at all And basically, even up to like they couldn't really find from it other than people were eating less calories. So protein is a big has a higher thermic so you're getting a little even though it's not is a pretty small percentage expenditure. But still a benefit. You're getting the If you're in a diet, it's going mass, if you're at going to help build a and if you're in a to help build a Then you get the So now, I want to be careful to be very specific So you can take a and make it not very satiating. So take, for example, like bar, which back when we no such thing existed. Now, you have protein bars that But if you eat one of them, I I don't really feel satiated, ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's LAYNE NORTON: Right. Right. So why? Because, I mean, it's and made to be very palatable. But take something like a Very satiating, right? And that's why when people aren't very satiating, it I mean, when you look a plain baked potato is about ANDREW HUBERMAN: If I I feel pretty good afterward. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I mean, I usually-- I'll eat that along but I completely agree. So you're saying that the even how much chewing It smells that your because to me, a steak I mean, if I had to pick even though I'm for the rest of my life, it it would get me and then I'd probably LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But I have a question that I don't but I'm hoping it relates enough In the context of to eat let's say, 2 grams per and I'm not eating maybe I'm eating two I'm certainly going than the 30-gram threshold for a long time that 30 grams of protein per meal. Should I just not Some of it is going to go of food, some of that into glucose of all things So should I worry about Because I think balancing the weight threshold with the need to exercise and sleep, et you run into bottlenecks or you're spending so much LAYNE NORTON: You can't at the same time. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You'd lose So what is necessary if one is getting And then tied into is there any that if you eat one meal and then you eat, let's in a single feeding, that you were protein starved. Is that a real thing? LAYNE NORTON: So most of are after a fast because to you have to be in So we haven't observed that. It doesn't appear allows you to assimilate So this gets into a core looked at in my protein distribution matter? Because most Americans get about at dinner. Breakfast tends to be pretty ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do eat big breakfast and not We all heard that was ideal. We'll get into circadian but does anyone Steak and eggs for taper off the rest of the day? LAYNE NORTON: I tends to have a big tends to be like sugary As far as like teleological, I'm So if you look at consider that protein have a storage mechanism. People will say, well, lean That's like saying a house is Yeah, if the house you could get wood out of it, You're building the Same thing for muscle tissue. There is a free but it's very, very small. So when you consider things has unlimited storage capacity, large storage 400 or 500 grams of carbohydrate And then protein, which almost the idea that, OK, for a low protein at one another meal didn't So one of the studies we did-- and again, in rats, we took-- both groups were getting whey protein, they were getting of calories, exact same amount Everything was the same. The only difference was, got three meals of similar Dinner was a little wanted to keep it somewhat But each meal was going to be muscle protein synthesis. Whereas the other so the first two should not stimulate It should be under And then the last of their total daily protein. And so we had them eat And I'll never forget this. This is how obsessive is, there were 110 and I made all the exactly every single meal for 11 weeks. So I was in there at 6:00 and I was in there at 6:00 PM. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love it. That's kind of PhD student You're sounding a dream student. LAYNE NORTON: So at we looked at like lean body we looked at hind limb weights. We didn't really see but what we did see in hind limb weights. It wasn't massive, but there in the size of the of these animals. And so it's interesting a difference in lean body mass. And what we found, at least that we're eating one meal actually had bigger livers, something that I but it was a statistically And so to me, at to explain like no but a difference in maybe there's some that's fueling a little of the splenic because you're capping out synthesis. And we do know that the more sensitive or of protein synthesis per day. Like, the rate of skeletal in humans is about So it takes like 100 days to Whereas like your entire will turn itself over in So really-- and the liver of protein synthesis, which It's actually one of the most So all that to say, it has not-- there's been one human study And then there's been a And then in the intermittent a good tool to look at one thing I will say is intermittent fasting style. There's been a couple of And this is something I've Grant Tinsley has done where they did use They had them train during and they had them eat-- I think it was at least three during those eight hours. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: These are humans. And they saw no difference at the end of the study who were eating as many times as Now, if you look at some of the like alternate day fasting there are some studies where in lean body mass. So my suspicion is, So this is tenuous. My suspicion is, getting like two to three high you're getting the vast majority The most important thing And then secondarily, or three meals with But if you're going pretty fasting or maybe then I think there may be some But again, these can be doing hard resistance training. Typically, that is in terms of lean body mass. Yes, protein distribution but I'm trying to put don't feel like they need to go But again, so what I would say forms of time-restricted to be fine for lean the caveat is the following. One of the nice things is when you to have a high subject in a long duration, it's So in our research created a Venn diagram, is like three circles One is study duration, and the other one And to get all three of it almost has to be an animal's. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. And REPS, it's a LAYNE NORTON: So it's our So every month we review like in fitness and nutrition. We'll usually do at least and one supplement per month. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to where people can sign up. This is a sign up format? Great. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So it's a So basically, when-- people why did you see difference whereas some of these other I weighed out every and keep in mind that 11 is a really long time. That's about an 1/8 of So is it that there's that the effect is and would take a really long of control to see in humans? I don't know. But I think what I would say if you're going to do like you're probably fine. Especially-- and again, Like if you're a to be the most massive or you're a football in some field that having as is really important for well, you're not really by doing some form of ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think most do not fall into that category. LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think most weight. They'd like to, quote unquote, shape or muscle and lose body fat. LAYNE NORTON: Right. And I think your normal and you're probably And again, I don't want I do alternate day no point to me resisting going to lose muscle mass. No. No, no, no, no. You can still build You just might not as you would if you were eating But if that's something that and especially, if it's fat loss then again, it's about the So to answer your question, I do matters a little-- but distribution more so. So I think the but it's a much smaller enough total protein in. And then as far as I used to be in the no way somebody can on a plant-based diet. And now, I think I've it just requires a And I don't want to say to do without an isolated So unless you're going to plant source of protein, to get enough without going because you can figure like take somebody who may trying to get enough protein sources. So you've got a few different One, the sources of protein have carbohydrate and/or fat. Two, it's a less bioavailable it's a lower quality of protein less leucine, less and less essential amino acids. ANDREW HUBERMAN: You answer interrupted you does it boil down to And it sounds like that And that a lot of the sources of excellent protein, vegetarian or vegan source from carbohydrates make it hard to stay under Whereas a steak is-- I'm not-- and want to avoid that LAYNE NORTON: Sure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But that's But a steak or a piece of an egg has a yolk which But is almost a pure There's no carbohydrate LAYNE NORTON: Right. So I think what I would Takes a little more planning. And you're almost always-- if you're going to be with some isolated form form of protein. Now, this word gets what about the and those sorts of things? It's a consideration. Some of the better in terms of amino acid Now, I hear everybody about their testosterone levels. In terms of actual outcomes there was a recent meta And I think if it's your then maybe the to cause some weird effects. But if you're just using it it doesn't seem to have or estrogen. So that can be because it is a It does have a PD cause of one, a measure of protein does it provide enough so that none are limiting? And so soy is one of the only Interestingly, potato actually has a similar essential So isolated potato protein. It's just really hard to find. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Interesting. LAYNE NORTON: I've ANDREW HUBERMAN: But vegetarians take note, because-- or vegans rather, because and whey is a very high LAYNE NORTON: Very And actually-- they're actually I think it's-- I may mischaracterize this. But I believe they're able to or something like that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Amazing. LAYNE NORTON: That-- this is a great can have whey that's that is going to be every bit So I think that's great. Getting to the leucine-- let me go back, sorry. So another reason that using an is because it's as well when it's When the protein bound up in it tends to be Now, cooking can help because it breaks some of But it still seems to be lower. And you don't-- it's There was a recent study where blend of protein versus whey. And basically, the of each stimulated protein But the plasma amino acids still did not get as Now, it may be that that's because once you get you get all the benefits. But I still found it that they didn't The other thing to consider with is the leucine content. So one of the studies at wheat, soy, egg, and whey. Isonitrogenous, protein between the we equated calories. And we looked at muscle And I think this was-- the from protein. So like your food guide And we saw that in the they did not increase but the egg and whey group synthesis. Now, what's really and we took wheat and added the leucine content of whey and was identical. So again, I don't like to but leucine appears to And I'll never forget, Layman one day, and he would always do he liked to think occurs the way it does. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So he would say-- one day, I'll never Layne, why do you think the body for muscle protein synthesis? And of course, I'm I just work here like. I'm just trying to get my PhD. And he said, well, You would want something that metabolized by because you would want to that reflect what you just ate. Makes sense. And you would want it to across the muscle want to be which it is. So-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Get into that need it most. LAYNE NORTON: Right. So not having active transport, So yeah, I thought that the way he broke that down. So few different options for You can use an isolated And again, like there's going because this plant-based to be a great option for folks. You can add free leucine your source of protein is. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Just by LAYNE NORTON: Now, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. I think I've heard that. Maybe I've even tried it. LAYNE NORTON: It's completely dissolve in anything ANDREW HUBERMAN: Can it LAYNE NORTON: It can Yeah. So you could take a capsule. Like for example, if you're you could just take a capsule Is probably going to bump going to be good to go. And then there's especially, with corn. Corn is actually That's a percentage Now, you've got to remember on the cob and you're getting So it's not that much leucine. But if you isolate out the well, now, when you're getting is now protein, corn leucine in terms of the protein. So a great source of leucine, it in some other amino acids. But you can blend it with a Like you could blend and you can create these that would actually have but also some of the other So there are options out And I mean, we have are plant-based build There's quite a few bodybuilders ANDREW HUBERMAN: And a lot of And even though-- when we think about muscle Performance in endurance sports. And also just performance who's doing some hopefully, some Also and just living life. I mean, many more are vegan or at least avoiding I'm not one of those people. I limit the amount, focus on the quality But I do eat red to a question about just choice, can we come up with of the following? Tell me if this That most of us for sake of health should be focused on ingesting and minimally processed foods. Maybe even cooking our own food. I realize that's heresy now. But ideally, we would And really trying to avoid and have lots of sugar. And I'm using this as a that I really want I've been dying to ask you this, actually going up as much as people getting so much fatter? So what do you think about that we should try and eat minimally to not processed Is that a reasonable number? LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. It's hard to actually get because almost everything of processing. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So I'm that wouldn't survive long LAYNE NORTON: On shelf? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. On a shelf, like an So like oatmeal, like as long as there isn't and they would be A steak is not really cut off the animal, et cetera. So there's a few steps in there. But that's what I mean. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: And I think I'm probably a when it comes to this stuff. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Actually, one of the about you is something that close to me, which is the on precision is really with online it's like a runaway train. People will-- LAYNE NORTON: It's too what you're saying. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's very And the misinterpretations used to leverage whole new ideas Mostly about what is true. So I really And this is what a longform is catch every curve, you know? LAYNE NORTON: So I would 100% That if you were going to trying to focus on is very important. The one caveat I would important to understand why. Because otherwise, people can that, if I eat any minimally-- it's going to kill me. Or like every time like I'm smoking a my longevity is declining. Based on the studies we have, That processed food just gets more. And Kevin Hall showed this I mean, he designed some in nutrition. ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's great. LAYNE NORTON: And they, from a minimally and then gave them access Very few instructions. Just eat to you feel satisfied. And they spontaneously by 500 calories a day. I mean, that's massive. And we haven't quite People say, well, it's sugar. It doesn't appear to be sugar Well, it's fats. Doesn't appear to be Well, it's the combination Partly, well, it's of sugar, fat and salt. Partly. But there's some to the texture and the overall Which is always like right and wrong ways Like, for example, like there's and then there's like what's where they're eating like And again, I love a but that should not form-- that should not be just because it's &quot;plant-based.&quot; Because I mean, you're eating that's very palatable Same thing for keto. You've now got like and you've got keto cookies And I'm like, yeah, and they actually have more And I'm like, yeah, missing the point here. Like you're actually the whole point of those you tend to lose like good luck 10 diet, eating processed food. Like you just couldn't Now, you can. But the problem to work because you're too many calories, because what are they doing? Well, they're trying to they're trying to make which, I guess, if you're being keto, great, but if you have modification, it's going to So yes, I think minimizing you consume can be important. Now that being said, it and their goals. If your goal is to, for example, body weight for a like an NFL offensive lineman or if you're-- I worked with an NBA I can't disclose anything, at drafting a certain player. And like for them, processed ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or a teenagers. We all want young people to Develop great habits. But some of them, their LAYNE NORTON: So high. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --that if they're going to dissolve into-- they'll just waste away. LAYNE NORTON: So I with a financial example. It's like a budget. So if I make a million for example, is it OK for me to Let's assume that Is it OK for me to buy if I still am able to pay my and take care of my the things I should do. Is OK if I do that if it makes ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK by me. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. It's fun. Like it fits in your budget. If I make 50 grand be going out and Probably not, to be able to pay these other responsibilities. So your protein, your, These are your responsibilities. But those become when you have higher calories. So if you're eating for whatever goal you going to have some left eating 4,000 calories from quite frankly, because you're going that you're going to feel And so again, now, well, is there something processing? Is there something that we know, OK, to be a negative even like body And I would say, great evidence of that so far. And a great example I mean, I actually just on my website about why I cause of the obesity epidemic. And you mentioned sugar has actually gone ANDREW HUBERMAN: Alcohol intake, it, might have gone but certain certainly it's gone way down drinking. Used to be-- there People were drinking all day. People are smoking a lot less. I think it's a real puzzle. I'd love to know what LAYNE NORTON: Well, be in opposition because an appetite suppressant. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Appetite focus. The problem is it often device that can kill you. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But nicotine It also can offset age-related but it makes the LAYNE NORTON: I've got a buddy And he just takes those has one in almost like-- he has a very stressful ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. You have to be careful but there's a Nobel Prize will chew five or six which I do not recommend, he just simply couldn't And he was the to do the literature age-related cognitive decline. Even neuron maintenance, LAYNE NORTON: Well, it's a to be honest. Now, the first when we're talking this is based on actual They're assuming that, this amount of can assume the consumption So it's not a But it has been validated We know that oil Like that that's, yeah. That's one of the big ones. And this forms the the seed oils are ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's that I'm going to ping you on. LAYNE NORTON: They're going and kick your dog and punch your And I'm happy to address those. So calories have still gone up. There's some people gone-- they've plateaued. I think the data seems to still increasing. And the other thing is, even if it's at a high enough level going to continue to where it'll probably plateau ANDREW HUBERMAN: What Leaving aside NEAT, because I mean, people are-- the people we know are But there are a lot of folks LAYNE NORTON: And energy output I mean, it's very look at how people to even 30, 40 years ago. It's much different. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Less walking. Also, I learned recently don't take PE class But we had to suit up And if you didn't bring or you didn't wash them in just not wearing them, nothing room after a weekend, and it's not pleasant. But you had to run and do your or play volleyball in your So my understanding is that, part of the basic LAYNE NORTON: It probably but I know many states have of budget cuts. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So caloric intake is going up. Maybe-- LAYNE NORTON: Plateauing ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is that sufficient to LAYNE NORTON: Based I think it's pretty sufficient. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So it of a mystery after all? LAYNE NORTON: No, I don't I think that people don't like and I think because into it, which is, OK, if at a fundamental level, you're consuming more energy People insert the judgment, you're a sloth, And I think there's a who actually think remember talking to I would never hire an because it's just obvious And I just remember Like, there are smart high-achieving And like it's not-- this is what happens when you People are much more Yes. There is some personal But then when you look through there was a study where they found that were 50% more likely to have trauma in their past. We know that people are more prone to be obese. There's several people who have which of measures like I believe, there was a more likely to be obese. So there's-- yes, it is an but just saying, that's like telling just earn more money It's technically right, What is more helpful is the habits and allow them to achieve that. So I realized we go but circling back to I believe that sugar for your health independent So independent risk factor. And again, I want to be very means. Independent means independent This thing is bad for your ANDREW HUBERMAN: So on its own, for instance, it increases LAYNE NORTON: Right. Or caloric intake. I was at a graduate And one of the somebody who had done syrup and fructose, And he was talking and he had done this study in I think it was like 60% from fructose. And they saw some happen in the liver and all this kind of stuff. And the other professor it's pretty obvious syrup is fattening. And this professor who said, yeah, because And he's like, don't something inherent to it? And he said, no, I think People are eating He's like, we did a proof of like, try eating 70% of your You actually can't do it. High fructose, corn syrup So if you ate nothing but you would still not that they fed in this study. So that got me kind of about it. So then I went through and I the epidemiology. Not that epidemiology but people who eat likely to eat more calories. So then I looked for the where they match calories And it doesn't seem At least from fat ANDREW HUBERMAN: But So for instance, if somebody-- and I know somebody like this get some exercise, not a ton. But my concern is that, of their calories are coming and therefore they're not maybe protein, et cetera. LAYNE NORTON: So let's look then I'll address When we look at who eat higher amounts of they tend to have worse The people who eat fruit-- don't have those So why is that? Well, because fruit So I started to believe, I was looking at, that the problem per se. The problem was that high are very low in fiber. But if you're getting enough So there was a classic I think it's still of this day looking at this. And I know those people who It has no relevance. You know, I know, if it's a ANDREW HUBERMAN: Some In fact, they have LAYNE NORTON: You're not the discovery of DNA or whatever it is. ANDREW HUBERMAN: No. LAYNE NORTON: So they looked so low calorie diet. One group was eating over like sucrose. The other group was eating Calories, protein, And they provided all the So very tightly controlled. And it was over six weeks. Both groups lost the exact So it doesn't seem to matter of sugar per se. Then they also looked at like blood lipids and blood Again, there was no The only difference was-- so all their biomarkers The only real difference was So the group eating low sugar slightly in LDL. But that's probably because And we know fiber can bind cholesterol. So now, I want to caveat this. Sugar probably doesn't have So there's that. And nutrition is an exchange. If you're eating one eating another thing, right? So but what I would focus probably less on So if you're eating 30, 40, but your sugar is, would not be that especially, if you're What I would be worried eating just a decent and not getting enough And even in studies, analyzes out now looking of different carbohydrates So fructose and Now, why is this important? Well, again, if when I say isoenergetic, equal in calories. So basically, when they exchange or fructose for other do they see differences in Like HbA1c, fasting blood with rare exceptions, and I points exactly. But the take home seem to make a difference? Now, for anybody out there, I am not advocating But I think it's to not create weird because one of the things in the fitness industry, like they can't eat something-- it's one thing if you say, I just because I'm choosing to. But it's a very different restricting because you And this-- I mean, you in many ways, amazing and So when you purposely try what tends to happen is you're So people who will I'm never going to eat or I'm going to try And this isn't the But they have actually who are purposely restricting they tend to crave And if they do get exposed to what's called a disinhibition a binge response. Because the thinking and there's no context on This is just bad in general. So if I have it, I've I might as well just And I like Spencer Nadolsky's That's like getting a flat and your other three tires So I really-- I try to come from that seen so many people not an eating disorder, but because of these associations And so that's why I'm so about saying, OK, to eat mentally to avoid processed foods. But not because processed but what the outcome tends to consumption, which is therefore energy toxicity to your health. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. It seems like it, again, for a positive, negative, or And perceptual change all the time that you That's a terrible And this, I think, is a that first brought was this thing about And let me just, for the I have long ingested foods So throughout graduate school, They're healthier now But I would drink a Diet I still have the I'm not completely that has artificial sweetener. Although, I do avoid that maybe I can get But a lot of the contain stevia, which but it is a plant-based sweetener. And I don't have a I became very interested in of the animal data that they may disrupt and then disrupt the gut is a very broad statement. We don't really of lactobacillus, exobacilius, they all seem to end in ilius-- is ideal. And in fact, a lot that are having people for analysis of the microbiome. I mean, take note, know what a healthy but we know what an unhealthy And it's one that doesn't have So I was interested there's the recent human study get into. But I was mostly interested for the reason that there is And you see it in in humans that if you ingest-- well, coffee is a Coffee doesn't actually even though I like it. But when you taste coffee most people think it's Most, everybody, say, this doesn't taste good. LAYNE NORTON: Wine, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. But people have learned to caffeinated, which most to just feel normal, is one of the few drugs we enough that soon-- myself included, and enjoy a cup of coffee. So it's a powerful of the food conditioning effect. So it's like a Pavlovian thing. Instead of LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And it did Small's lab, which admittedly study itself, not showed that if you ingested with food that contained even get a heightened from the artificial You and I connected over You pointed out that the There was co-consumption which made it complicated. We can go into that. But the reason I'm spouting is, artificial sweeteners So I'd like to talk on blood sugar in and according to what we and how they might be regulation at the level And then the gut are interesting And I have changed my view based on what you've taught me. So this is a case changed my view, don't have any problem on the current data, which is down cup fulls of sucralose, some stevia and some aspartame about it. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. So I think stepping we have to think about, again, And what are you replacing with? So there is no situation to take somebody who drinks and have them drink sweetened beverage. In the meta analysis, there was analysis looking at markers a bunch of different and when you substitute, non-nutritive sweeteners, But so when you substitute beverages, you see improvements What was really interesting analysis was they also in place of And the effect wasn't and these are randomized ANDREW HUBERMAN: So artificial are more beneficial-- LAYNE NORTON: Were for improving adiposity, and it was kind of a wash. Water and non-nutritive performed similar. But there were better than obviously. So they then based on-- a network meta can compare to things that So there's not many studies directly. But if you have a so if you compare A to B you compare A to C based on Butchering it a the crux of a network So they looked at and found that actually, better for improving adiposity. ANDREW HUBERMAN: NNS, of course, LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: So now, again, and you don't want to-- I'm not trying to convince What that seems to is a little bit of an effect from these or non-nutritive sweeteners. Now, this gets a little because if these sugar-sweetened beverages, developed a sweet taste it's too much of And so going to having is a little bit better. Like, there's a lot But these are the randomized which are a little bit more I tend to default than I do the epidemiology, so messy, because sure, consumption may be associated but there's also a whole other that are tied up in that. So I tend to hang my on the randomized So understanding that. OK. Now, all things being that this is a tool that and whenever I post about in the comments, there's people who say, all I And I drank diet soda Or I lost 75 pounds. I even had 1%. I lost 100 pounds. That's the only thing I did. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Wow. LAYNE NORTON: I mean, that's a If you consider somebody who five or six Cokes a talking a serious ANDREW HUBERMAN: that by replacing it with beverages, they did not LAYNE NORTON: Correct. So now, let's talk about, right? This is where we can get but is that obese person who Do I really care about, to their gut microbiome? No, because their gut microbiome now by them having lost all So again, the ranking of can change depending on Now, let's take somebody like have any health problems What about artificial Well, for me, I got using them prep, because it was suppressant that worked for me. But do I think that Probably not. Do I think they're unhealthy? I would say based I don't think that Now, the information So there's-- some of the meta analyzes or these the non-nutritive sweeteners well, there's no effect on this Well, the problem is these and they can Aspartame, very clearly, on blood sugar or insulin. That has been repeatedly shown. Stevia doesn't appear Saccharin and sucralose, Now, there was the connected on which, I measure was actually they were Like how it affected So what they did was, the group was also paired The control group which is an appropriate the sweet taste because as sweet as sucrose. So when you're trying to is already sweet, with you'd want something less But for the outcome measure probably, not as maltodextrin has a much higher ANDREW HUBERMAN: So they for taste, but not for the And I think that that And I think, yeah, the intrigued me actually was because that study drove and we'll get Dana Small on hopefully-- was that they And they actually had because a couple of the I mean, it seemed like there this was the Yale It's a good place. I mean, there's a But it just seemed like there's that if taken to be able to impact blood sugar. This has impacted my behavior. And I try to avoid really exceptionally delicious or because I do think my craving for sweet things. LAYNE NORTON: Well, it might but it just programs you. Your taste buds are So take, for If you bring Indian and have them eat they think it tastes extremely used to such spicy have a certain level of spice, If you've ever done and then gone to a low-sodium ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's LAYNE NORTON: But over time, So sweet is the same thing. If you're used to you get desensitized to it. And then if you go to it can taste-bland at first. Over time, it'll get better. So I think it's that, again, it depends If somebody's obese this is going to sugar-sweetened want to take that That's a great lever to pull. I mean, if somebody can from just one change in really that inconvenient of But again, is it the most And I think that's what We don't know. Is it healthier than water? Probably not maybe Who knows? But I really make because you don't want to as a tool to think, well, no, actually bad for me. If it helps you lose or whatever it is, trust me, ANDREW HUBERMAN: to increase your What do you think about in this recent study? Because the recent had some nice features to it. And you've done a detailed So for those that want that-- LAYNE NORTON: Is this the ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, Yeah. And we will provide a link. You did an excellent video that really parses each piece. But they compared the and looked at the glucose a number of different measures. What was your general takeaway? And this was in the first time looking due to artificial sweetener-- LAYNE NORTON: There on the microbiome in humans The first two that came out but they were a little They were two to four weeks. And again, it depends on what There's many different so they could just be measuring And then there was a that got a lot of press. And they showed-- I think it was sucralose. I think. They showed an effect of Now, what was I went into the the species that changed the was a species called-- I'm going to butcher like Blautia coccoides, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I that work on the microbiome, I mean, you need a and you need acronyms. I'm sorry. Just do it. LAYNE NORTON: [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: Enough already. You're killing us. LAYNE NORTON: We'll call it BC. We call it BC. ANDREW HUBERMAN: BC, thank you. We're going to start the without you if you LAYNE NORTON: So they noticed three- to four-fold. So I kind of went down So interestingly, that is actually associated with sensitivity. And people who are obese tend to have less of it. So I said, well, you can actually argue that improves the gut microbiome. Now, again, I'm not Because we have a hard what a healthy microbiome This last study that came out, think it's safe to say that sweeteners are not There are some effects. Now, are those effects I think has yet to Now, I focused more on the in my analysis. So in that 10-week study, they test. And their conclusion I fit their data. So their conclusion I think it was sucralose-- that it elevated blood glucose. [SIGHS] And this can get kind of tricky. So my take-home was the the incremental area is looking at basically response, was not different and the sucralose group. To me, that's the There was one time of the study in the sucralose point, that was statistically glucose than the control group. It's kind of one of go, OK, it was one time point. It's statistically significant. But even then, we've seen significant that end because they're not reproduced. So I'm not saying that's But again, the overall was not different. So to me, that was ANDREW HUBERMAN: And papers, are published because [CHUCKLES] Lack of LAYNE NORTON: Null it's actually really unfortunate is just as useful data as But you're right. There is a very strong towards showing an ANDREW HUBERMAN: can flip a field on its head did not happen, typically does the negative you see a result. And then And-- LAYNE NORTON: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --I think that, the center of mass of are probably the best basis for and so I'm not changing my of artificial sweeteners. I personally am still going to in relatively small amounts. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But OK, if something I don't have to perhaps Whereas before I was. I was actively avoiding it. LAYNE NORTON: So the was very elegantly-- I mean, to be quite stuff they did was So there was actually One was the human arm. One was the animal arm. I focused much more on So basically, this And the really unique aspect is both a strength they had almost 1,400 And they only had 120, I think, Because they did a very detailed All of these people avoided artificial sweeteners And I think people don't realize ANDREW HUBERMAN: these people were like-- They'd never-- LAYNE NORTON: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's of the plaintiff These are these mutant had an artificial sweetener. LAYNE NORTON: Right, you don't have a lot that may be clouding happen when you add it in. For example, if you have consuming artificial have them consume the likelihood things are going So I think that It's also a weakness. And I want to be really think people took my words means I probably didn't do enough. There is the possibility So to me, if somebody has gone care to avoid it's likely they have that those are bad for difficult to avoid. Yes, it's possible if they're processed diet that they're And that's very true, as well. But the other thing acknowledged was they weren't Because if you've never had an you're only used and you have an artificial ANDREW HUBERMAN: You taste it. LAYNE NORTON: You know. It's still sweet. But it's not the same sweet. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And there's where a lot of people don't the first time. I actually quit drinking thinking I should, It tasted really-- I can only describe it as And then pretty soon, LAYNE NORTON: Yep. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And so there And whether or not meaning within the brain, But very interesting. Well, I see you as playing what is and what to be determined in and the entire landscape LAYNE NORTON: And that study did OK, I think we can clearly say Or sorry, that they're That was the thought They're not digested or That doesn't appear But again, when we look at the and I'm not saying I want to be very clear. I'm not saying this I'm saying it's And so this is why we need If these people had that artificial sweeteners it's possible, knowing they're that they could have had Now, my pushback on my then we should have expected to sweeteners, which they didn't. It was just in ANDREW HUBERMAN: of a graded effect, where the most dramatic change. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And stevia and LAYNE NORTON: And I took with it-- maybe was their primary was blood glucose, the But they had people administer tolerance tests, which said, OK, drink this drink. And they were wearing which should have been fine. But again, to me-- and I'm being ticky tacky. And again, I know all studies So I think overall, But I would have them monitor the tests to administer it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, and You want to know that or did ingest that. LAYNE NORTON: Right. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LAYNE NORTON: Those two things. But one other caveat is So we've got to be really in this because it's is a transient effect, right? And maybe it goes We don't know. But again, I think say it's not inert, right? Now, how much emphasis we put I still will say, OK, don't consume sucralose. But if you're 100 and you want to use some to help you lose don't let this study that because the going to be more positive than right? So if it's a tool But I do hold open the could be negative But again, we're looking at, And then they examined some that were increased with And again, this word of the things they in butyrate production from the presumably. Well, as we discussed actually associated in terms of insulin and some other things. So I want to be real cautious if there's a change it must be a bad change. We don't know. It's possible. And again, if we have 10 more to show this, then I will start of artificial sweeteners. ANDREW HUBERMAN: of sitting down for questions on social media. And one of the questions likes if you will, raises interesting questions health. And it's the following. I think it's a common scenario. A number of people is the healthiest way to And here what I is somebody has or they're just tired are, carrying the amount And they wanted to it is safe to, three pounds a week for a of a wedding or some other straight caloric restriction is the best way with the understanding that afterwards. I think ideally they'd like But what do you think cutting caloric intake and then also doubling LAYNE NORTON: So because you might I'm going to say, which is the to suggest that who lose a lot are more likely to seems a little bit Like, well, that doesn't But again, you're So there's the But then there's also-- buy-in So for a lot of overweight if they start a diet and they they bail on it because Whereas if they see some they buy in even harder. And so I think that the for if there's any coaches is just presenting that as the-- one of my favorite lines There's only trade-offs. I think Thomas Sowell said that. So you're having Yes, you're going You might lose lean faster too, which But I will say, the more the more aggressively without negative consequences. Somebody like me doing is not going to be One, I have a higher Two, I have a lower As your body fat goes of weight loss from So people who are very have so much adipose there's very little to metabolize lean tissue. Now, that being said, if you like, well, I got an and I've lost 2 and they've lost Well, keep in mind, adipose So there's actually to-- the structural component And it does have some water. So it's about 87% lipid. But the other part is lean. So at minimum, you should expect when you diet. And then when you consider like, which registers as lose your splenic tissues So it's normal for the average of the weight that they But that doesn't mean And again, the more the more aggressively without really negative to lean mass or But balance that with, OK, I need to understand to be dieting this way forever. I'm doing this to give myself And I have to be with transitioning a little bit more sustainable. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Based it reminds me of the satiety you mentioned earlier, can improve our sense of I just want to briefly mention on the podcast, she been doing a study that-- I have to pair you two as a fly on the wall. Because what she that if people believe that a then eating less of it Whereas if people view dieting like, oh, dieting is and it's terrible, all sorts of other things. Whereas they actually where people report reduced for instance, a chicken breast and rice is actually It's actually Then people eat that. And they feel like they've The satiety signaling goes up. So it's just a point Those aren't my data. LAYNE NORTON: Satiety is the rate at which down to the size of the plate the contrast in color-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Really? LAYNE NORTON: I can't I think it's if the plate is I think people eat more. Whereas if it's a bigger So even plate color can make a So again, human brain, very dumb in some ways, right? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Not LAYNE NORTON: I always I'm like, just look at You put some water in front they're like, oh, yeah, I'll [CHUCKLES] But we're ANDREW HUBERMAN: The reward run one chemical mainly, of course-- and very few algorithms. It's sort of like an-- intermittent reinforcement But in the end, there And we are probably not not optimized for our will eat themselves to death, et cetera, simply because at one point. It proves your point. LAYNE NORTON: Right. One of the things I said this on-- for someone's podcast the dichotomy of what's easy in the short If you do what's hard your life will get easier. It's very strange. And actually, Ethan Suplee When he was over the amount of work I had to could just live was than just going to the gym He's like, the gym work is hard. He's like, but when I I had to do to sustain that to the gym and he's like, to maintain the was infinitely more And so again, great example. Short term-- hard. Going to the gym, Long term, life's easier. Just a really interesting ANDREW HUBERMAN: And it can't Seed oils. People want to ask And for-- LAYNE NORTON: Cut. [CHUCKLES] ANDREW HUBERMAN: that are listening who are already, I should mentioned and Instagram and online, there that probably aren't worth But there are a number who are arguing that seed the obesity epidemic-- LAYNE NORTON: Everything. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Illuminati. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --everything. And then there are those that that meat is the source of And I think we've, thanks to we've hopefully that it's never that It's simply not. LAYNE NORTON: Rarely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Rarely. I love olive oil. I realize that into the seed oil category. I love olive oil. I use it in moderation. I do also consume some butter But are there any And here, a good be canola oil, which comes from was renamed canola oil good marketing. LAYNE NORTON: No, no. [CHUCKLES] No, exactly. So the first thing have negatively contributed because people in the last 20, to add into their diet that does load is oil, mostly But when we look at 1-to-1 if you look at the can find some people who consume more seed outcomes. Problem is, again, tied up with And then you can And the idea is, well, which means in the there's multiple double bonds, be oxidized when they're exposed And so the idea is, well, when they make it oxidized. And that's going to cause So that's a plausible mechanism. So as always, I defer to the trials. And so what you tend to saturated fats for it's either neutral or positive inflammation is There's some studies that of doing polyunsaturated fats. But it probably depends on the And that's the difficult because everything in this one bucket. And there are some differences Even with saturated fat-- for example, tend to raise LDL cholesterol. Whereas saturated fat as a whole But there are some So again, we're putting And it's a little more Then if you look at the on markers of again, tends to either be a when you substitute saturated Now, if you want to get versus polyunsaturated, there's between the studies. What I would say, based on the trials, is that off consuming monounsaturated in place of saturated fat. But again, if the idea is, are good for me, so I'm just on everything and now well, that's a negative have to deal with the bigger toxicity. So I'm not somebody who likes to I just haven't seen that seed oils are the root are being suggested. And I think this is a good something that pops up there's always that pops up and is the to whatever this And I think that's what we're oil stuff, is it's mostly the virtues of saturated fat. And listen, I think it's fine But again, I think of your daily calorie intake based on all the consensus And so once again, we're OK, we've got this epidemiology that sound good. But then, what we do some human randomized And so far, I just to suggest that seed oils for you, independent of ANDREW HUBERMAN: You said toxicity.&quot; And I just want to think that's a fabulous term. I don't think enough that because they are primed, OK, seed oils might be bad. Or artificial Or this particular might represent without taking into toxicity, the toxicity of And thank you for pointing out to the fact that saturated about no more than 7% to 10% Is there a lower-end threshold For instance, I've noticed that in terms of hormones, sufficient saturated fat. Maybe I'm a mutant. But years ago, of growing up in the '90s, It certainly crushed I started adding And I was right back where I wanted to be. So 7% to 10% of total daily is probably about what I do now. I'll have to check. But is there a danger to going LAYNE NORTON: So only trade-offs, right? What maximizes out be the best thing for I'm not making that But I think it's important that I think we that there's this one is going to be the best and burning fat and preventing And the reality is, there's patterns that we see that But when we get there's probably some push So when it comes there is some evidence that that yes, you can have a Now, is that reduction in 20%, whatever it may be, is that loss of lean mass? That, we don't know. That's never been shown. Interestingly, I There was one study that was versus saturated fat. And they equated total fat. And one of the really was the group getting had more lean mass at compared to the group Now, it's only one study. I've never seen this replicated. So this is a I would like to find out is because this But if that gets shown over is, OK, well, if increasing lean mass compared what happens with testosterone? Unless that reduction is causing some kind of So all that to say, And by the way, that's and listening, real experts, you should hear them say the [CHUCKLES] ANDREW HUBERMAN: Exactly. My graduate advisor was And she was brilliant, right? LAYNE NORTON: And then in you really need a very, very for LDL cholesterol synthesis. Your liver can synthesize-- or cholesterol that is so small in terms of just So I don't think you And from a cardiovascular there is some evidence that quote, unquote, &quot;low and taking them down that there is still a of cardiovascular disease. So again, you're weighing So what I say, if you're doing you're probably fine. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I received whether or not there and exercise protocols. And I realize this But some of those to menopause and premenopause. And some related to Most related to variations In terms of, let's just say diet are there any things We'll talk a little bit later that you've produced, helps people manage and a number of other things. And so there, you have or at least an experience base. And then I'm guessing there exploring male-versus-female of adherence and what Are there any general themes LAYNE NORTON: This is going to for the women. Doesn't seem to make ANDREW HUBERMAN: may be relieved to hear sorting through the and certainly the covered in this podcast It means that everything LAYNE NORTON: Yeah, at the male-versus-female they seem to respond Like, similar to produce similar results. If you do low carb, high seems to boil down to Now, training wise, we the muscle fibers adapt a little But without getting it doesn't really should train because for the there's a lot of different So we know that light as long as it's taken close the same effect on at least in the short term, It's mostly about to fatigue or failure. You don't have to go to within a few reps. If you're between if you're getting seem to produce similar results. So again, great. You can pick whichever form of When it comes to again, females one thing that a lot They actually put on a as a percentage of their In fact, there's no difference in the amount Now, the absolute amount will be greater for men because amount of lean mass. But the relative is pretty much the same Now, females, there's some that females tend to be a little They can go a little bit And there's also some recover a little bit better. But that also could be that they're not able to induce hypertrophy. So I kind of have this theory of your one rep max, I think absolute load matters. When you look at the the super heavy weights aren't a week because they're ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: I think that effect there. Again, I have no This is just my observation. But when you get into the and this goes for see quite a few people sessions at high able to recover from that. So I do think the absolute Now, when it comes this is one of those things do what you prefer. So there are some you should schedule around your menstrual is whenever you're going reduce the intensity. Reduce the volume because you're You're not going What I would say is If you go in and you're on and you're doing don't think you necessarily And there was one study that But if you go in and and you feel like you could and volume, then it's totally And when I say means you are regulating the based on your performance. So I autoregulate insofar So I have a velocity device. So I can actually and see how fast the load moves. And I know at various velocities I should be hitting. So if I hit my last warm-up higher than usual, I that that's going to If it's lower, than I can In fact, at Worlds, when I it was 30% faster than I And I turned and and I said, yeah, we're [CHUCKLES] So there's various forms But again, women, if you're on I don't think there's any But if you're not feeling good, to back off. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Raw People wanted to for instance, eating I don't know. Does anyone cook apples? People used to bake-- baked apples was a It was kind of the Sorry, Mom. That was not awesome unless it LAYNE NORTON: Or apple pie. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And even But anyway, raw versus cooked. Obviously, if you to the point where it's pure And there is a small movement That's not something Frankly, sushi is the only LAYNE NORTON: Same. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I am frankly-- reputable places. Is there anything in terms of being the amino acids, vitamins, raw versus cooked? LAYNE NORTON: It just So when you cook foods, they in terms of they tend to become more Eggs are this way. Meats are this way. People say, well, when you And I think they hear and they think destroy. And that is not So proteins fold up into you know this of course, based And there are specific When you heat it starts to unfold That happens during So I always chuckle when-- I've seen some with &quot;way that that's not going to And I'm like, so you So yeah, typically, makes amino acids more Now, I would stay away because there is some polyaromatic hydrocarbons, when they give those, they So if you do char I would just cut off And then you should be fine. ANDREW HUBERMAN: The LAYNE NORTON: [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: Not if But there is something about My dad's Argentine and likes LAYNE NORTON: Oh, yeah, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: What about-- people referred to them in their But I think what to are things like berberine and And one glucose scavenger I'd is this assertion that taking or maybe even a slow some movement can help downshift glucose in some way. I've heard that. Not a lot of people, but some to this idea of taking or even metformin I personally can't If I take it, I get unless I've ingested tons So I just don't But I know there are a that want to know whether or be useful. LAYNE NORTON: I think that is if I'm being honest. As far as the carb some white kidney bean extract They do block the digestion So when I say &quot;block,&quot; metabolism is typically So when we say things like or &quot;inhibit,&quot; talking about just a switch and everything turns off. We're talking about So it just changes the emphasis. But these carb the absorption of carbohydrate. Now, they don't seem to cause do it in a normal diet. Now, why is that? Well, all it does is once to the large intestine and your they start fermenting them to get reabsorbed into your liver. So you don't get the But you still get almost It's just in a different form. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I see. LAYNE NORTON: So carb blockers, well, I mean, if you block your GI typically does not just in there. You get diarrhea. I mean, that would It's also how I debunked the at a meal, you can't I'm like, if that was the you would just start every time you went over that ANDREW HUBERMAN: I so this would be early '90s-- there was the Olestra craze. LAYNE NORTON: Oh, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: in a nondigestible thing so that it would clear faster, not absorb This went nowhere, obviously. You don't hear But it does raise an related to energy balance, And obviously, in the in particular anorexia. Use and abuse of in which people will, try and control their weight. And there's a lot of LAYNE NORTON: Oh, yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But what Is this one way that people balance in a healthy way? And where does fiber LAYNE NORTON: Fiber tends time because it adds bulk. So your GI system And it has peristalsis, which moves the food down Well, if you have more bulk you can move it through Now, in the gastric, the tends to delay gastric probably because it Now, this gets into the If you do low GI a slower release of glucose. It's a slower gastric Does that affect energy balance? And so there are looking at low GI In the studies where they low GI tends to But when they control calories, And so what I is low GI foods, tend to be higher in fiber. And so I think it just kind of ANDREW HUBERMAN: Got it. I'd like to ask you about It's an enormous landscape. But I believe there are a few meaning they exist. And there are decent data Maybe even some anecdotal data as long as we highlight it as I've heard you talk about that I'm very familiar with, If you could share not just for muscle building for it. And then the other one learning more about thanks to your prompt, I think I pronounced and why that might or of use to people. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah, so it is the most tested, supplement we have. I mean, there are thousands of now. And I would say if you're using any I think you're Creatine hydrochloride Apparently, it's a The claim is that you need less. But there's only a And it's more expensive. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And is not particularly expensive. I realize people have But it's not a budget breaker. LAYNE NORTON: Yeah, it's gotten and supply chain issues. There's forms of creatine as good, like hydrochloride. But it's more expensive. And then things like has been shown to be worse Buffered creatine And it's much more expensive. So I tell people, just It is tried and true. It's been shown to saturate with phosphocreatine. And that's what you want. So creatine works through a One, through increasing which helps improve It also appears to And it increases of which is through bringing But I mean, muscle So when people say, water, that's what And it also increases strength Now, it also has that people tend to fat percentage. Now, that's probably an increase in lean mass. And so the relative in body fat percentage. But there are a few studies that as well. I don't think that I think that people are more lean tissue. And so that's probably Then they've actually some cognitive benefits really interesting, as well. But the only knock on creatine to come up with-- because stuff; they've debunked there's no evidence that it is hair loss. So what about hair loss? Because there was that showed that But they didn't on any other sex hormone. So it's kind of strange. Like, you would think if there would be something And it's only one study. And again, didn't directly It measured DHT, which in the loss of the follicle. So what I would say is It's only one study. Never been replicated And it was looking at an outcome. So if you're somebody and you want to avoid creatine But for most people, I to worry about. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Do you of creatine, taking it and then backing off? Or just taking it I think 5 grams per day is the LAYNE NORTON: So again, no You can load it. And you will saturate your usually within a week. If you just take it'll take two, But you will get And you're probably a much lower risk of GI issues. Creatine can be a gut irritant. If it is for some folks, I into multiple doses, so doses per day. And definitely don't load who has GI issues from it. As far as Rhodiola is still in its infancy. I was just reading a that concluded that we need But the research seems to suggest reduce physical fatigue. But also reduces the and may also enhance memory And it's referred So I really like it. My anecdotal combine that with caffeine, the effects of caffeine. It's a more pleasant experience. And there's also some evidence caffeine, that it can effects to caffeine I didn't really believe did a cold turkey-- so before a meet, I will cut because you can basically tolerance in seven days. And two days in, I I've got the headaches. Usually, I'll get body aches is actually a mild analgesic. And yeah, so it was but I slept like a baby, I slept like a baby. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And prior to your event-- LAYNE NORTON: To the meet. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So you really LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: Yeah. And like I said, it doesn't eliminate But it tends to dampen So I really like it. Again, would like to But there's a lot Ashwagandha is another thing Seems to increase ANDREW HUBERMAN: Interesting. LAYNE NORTON: They've shown I don't think the explains the increase It's just not a big ANDREW HUBERMAN: Could it People have talked about-- LAYNE NORTON: It's possible. It does decrease It also has been shown But I would like to see mechanistically, how it's say conclusively that There's more research And then there's some other Citrulline malate, there showed that reduce fatigue and increase, And it may actually have as well. Different forms of have recovery benefits. And actually-- interesting-- I actually has been shown-- Volek published a showed that it increased in muscle cells. ANDREW HUBERMAN: L-carnitine and its I think there's good can improve sperm and who are looking to conceive. LAYNE NORTON: Oh, interesting. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, there of studies on this in humans. But yeah, and that's from People are taking capsules, into the muscle, yeah. LAYNE NORTON: And then like the other most effective is probably caffeine. I mean, if you look at caffeine produces improvements in performance. So that's another one. Some people don't like That's OK. But-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I wouldn't know [CHUCKLES] LAYNE NORTON: Exactly, exactly. Well, interestingly, that the effect appears that even if you're a you do still get a benefit But like you said, So there's those things. Then you've got things which it's in our preworkout. Probably not super helpful training. It does seem to have some If you get out more than of really hard to help with delaying And then you've got or also called there's some evidence it There's some evidence that So there's a few But most of the stuff So I think that those kinds But again, I would never tell Again, even something is going to be a very to proper nutrition, One of the things-- I was talking with Ben And I said, you will ask me like, how does Because their programming Or this guy, his And I'll say, yeah, but for 20 years. One commonality you see between or bodybuilders is And one of the things is the more into the and again, this is just my the more in the weeds they I see them train. And so one of the like that Mike Israetel and is a bodybuilder you can't outscience that if you're looking and you're looking to improve the main thing is just ANDREW HUBERMAN: Consistency And I would add to that-- endeavors, too, of course; LAYNE NORTON: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --which is given the mental were talking about how and what you think about Learning to really enjoy to learning to really not just for the effects that those, too, of course. But just learning to really hard and a really hard that you have to sort through a book learning to really enjoy that, I out there, it's the LAYNE NORTON: And I is getting the confidence that there's a I get asked a lot in my Q&amp;As, How do I become more confident? And I'll tell people, There's no hack. You can't read about it. You've got to get in the arena. And I don't mean like compete a PhD or doing something, just putting yourself out there. And you're saying, And I'm going to go for it. You just learn so much by And so just what you said, I when bad things happen from-- it's not to say I never get And it's not to say that I because I'm a human. But when something bad happens-- I actually posted about When something bad happens, woe is me. Why did this happen to me? Because you're in the universe. Random bad things So instead, I say-- if I'm not dead-- instead, I say, well, what to overcome an obstacle. And I bet, because in the the biggest lessons and have actually come out worst things that have happened. And so again, I able to do these sorts of weightlifting, because so much about perseverance, overcoming obstacles. And that's why I love And I'll still get I go in for a squat been doing it for 23 years. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, it's clear that And for people listening it doesn't have to picking hard things, learning a language. Challenge is an LAYNE NORTON: And shown those sorts of things, and also mentally, I think there basically showing a reduction and other age-related I mean, basically, use ANDREW HUBERMAN: and the will to persevere no that we call the It's related to Well, I think that what embodies what most people are I think most people actually They don't just want I think that most have some understanding that that way. I must say, this has been tremendously rewarding. First of all, it in person for the first time, Certainly, this won't on this podcast and elsewhere. Also, the amount of knowledge is astonishing. And-- LAYNE NORTON: There's a lot of [CHUCKLES] ANDREW HUBERMAN: because your ability to pull again I think not to your background in through to the impact in being able to understand to one another. And then you're You practice what you preach. And what you talk about younger people, older Keto, carnivore. You really are able to net while staying really And so I just want to say of the listeners, you coming in here today and We will absolutely point people they can learn more about you. And one of the places want to mention before we part, And I should just mention or anything of that sort. Actually, one of our has been using Carbon This is an app that allows people to navigate the balance space for weight loss, maintenance. I would just like to before we conclude. Without necessarily that's in the to know, what are the does and is good for? And then, what were that you wanted to when you built it? What's the logical Because I think there counting, calorie counting, Everyone I've Carbon, including Saagar Enjeti, this member raves about it. So what is Carbon? And what does it do? And what was your What did you really that you didn't see elsewhere? LAYNE NORTON: So those but I started online back in 2005. And that was the vast all the way up until 2017. And I had a lot of whether it be just average or build muscle and competitors in physique sport. So I had this idea, like-- I don't want to A few people had the idea. What if we could take and try to automate as Because by the time I was coach, I mean, I was expensive. You were looking I got to the point where I a month for coaching. And most people And I would like to not [CHUCKLES] You know what I mean? I would like to be able So the idea was to could do some of this stuff. Now, there's always a place But for people who our app is basically And basically, what we wanted think about if you went What would they do? They would probably ask you take some anthropometrics, And they'd use that information a baseline plan. That's what Carbon does. So I think there's eight flow about your activity, your body weight, your And if you don't know it, It's not perfect. But it's better than nothing. And then your And we use that to come And your baseline will be your carbohydrates, and fats. And what's different because apps like will do that, as well. What's different encourage people to log their that we talked about earlier. And then you can also And honestly, I think our food to use than most What we typically get about is how user-friendly that it makes intuitive sense. And so you track your food, that you're prescribed. And each week, you to check in with a coach And then you put in And then based on how the app will adjust on how you're progressing. So for example, if you're it will sense that. And it will reduce Or if you're trying and you've hit a plateau, And there's a lot of stuff that takes care of this. But the fundamental is we try to determine expenditure because the first big thing which is, how many calories for your goal, right? So on the front do our best guess based It's not going to be perfect. But it'll get us And if you do know, like well, I know what I there's actually a spot where during the signup flow. So that's helpful for people But then people will ask, well, Do you take this? Do you take that? And no, for the reasons that it overestimates What our app does is If you-- because your maintenance calories expenditure. Your average calories that weight will be the same as your So if we know how body and we know how many calories we can actually solve for And you can see in there's a maintenance calorie tracker. And typically, after even if the app it will have you pretty darn somebody comes on. And their goal is to a week or something like that. And the first week, Now, the app actually that you can lose more So they probably wouldn't But let's say the next The app will sense that and because it will be estimating are actually higher estimated based on the amount And the same thing If they're not losing that they're supposed based on the fact that it may expenditure. But that's the first crux of expenditure. And then the next So when the back-end calories are set first expenditure and your goal. So for example, if you're your calories are going to expenditure might be a because if you're trying to you're going to be in a pretty So it's going to set Then, it will set protein Then, the calories will be allotted to depending on your And we have a few different There's balanced, which is about to fat of the Then you have low fat, ratio of carbohydrates. You have low carb. You have a ketogenic diet, And then there's also And within each still, you can go in and a little bit within so that you can kind of dial preference is go back to what is going long-term results, it's whatever So we really try to start by allowing people to have the want. And there's some other apps For example, we get the difference between our Periodization app? And they have a great app. But theirs is kind And it'll say, you're going And you're going to have So we're kind of the opposite. We want to give you Now, for some people, they at first. But we find that giving them more flexibility adherence over the long run. So that's kind of And again, there's It's not just a weight-loss app. There's a maintenance. There's muscle-building. So you've got all kinds can be accommodated, different And I mean, I've used the now to do my body weight. And I mean, when I say in-- because I'm very regimented my weight. So what I targeted to I got down to the 0.1 kilogram. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LAYNE NORTON: So it able to use a tool that I helped So it's a great tool. We did some statistics. We polled 2,500 members. And one of the would you recommend And 91% said yes. So I think our average seven months, which for an is really great. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's great. Yeah, as I mentioned, a number This is not a paid promotion. But I think people need And what we know about the can work, but that the brain There's a Feynman And I'll get it wrong. It's always bad to try because he said But that we are the easiest-- it's easy to fool is what he was saying-- LAYNE NORTON: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sounds great. We will put a link to it so Again, it sounds like a nets a lot of the sit as major themes for I would assume directed what most people are after, because a number of people Listen, I really appreciate that you're doing, certainly, and knowledge you're doing on the various And just the fact that somebody is out there sharing across so many in this landscape that people really So thank you so LAYNE NORTON: Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity. I really enjoyed it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Thank you for joining me today Layne Norton. I hope you found it and informative and If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero-cost In addition, please on Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify can leave us up to If you have questions about topics and me to include on the please put those in the I do read all the comments. In addition, please mentioned at the beginning That's the best way to During today's episode and of the Huberman Lab podcast, While supplements aren't many people derive for things like sleep, hormone If you'd like to see the on various episodes of please go to We've partnered with are of extremely high quality. They ship internationally. And they formulated supplements are discussed as optimal to here on the Huberman The Huberman Lab also has that you can access. It includes summaries as well as summaries for mental health, physical You can sign up by going to hubermanlab.com, And look for the Neural You just provide your email. And I assure you, we do not And again, it's Again, go to hubermanlab.com, Network Newsletter. And if you're not already we are Huberman Huberman Lab on Twitter, and And at all of those science and science-related physical health, and overlap with information covered but often which is distinct on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, that's Huberman and Facebook. Thank you once again for joining with Dr. Layne Norton. If you are interested that he and I discussed, well as other resources please go to the links in And last but thank you for your [MUSIC PLAYING]