This show has been all Phil Ivey. He's up over $330,000. Phil Ivey is arguably the greatest of all time. He's always a threat in tournament poker. to every single detail. likes of Stu Ungar, Ted Forrest and Chris I went through a phase where I didn't realize how hard I tried. Phil Ivey's intimidating. getting to play against him online and even after getting to know Still sitting across the table and I think it's a lot of elements but everybody agrees that he's Million dollars first place money. all time is that hand from Monte Carlo Pair of Jacks and a 7. Re-raise by Jackson! So, what the heck is he doing? Well, there you are re-raises to 320,000. Raise! I don't see how he can I'm all in! That's why we're here and they're there. Watching this hand was like witnessing great art. The first time I heard of Phil Ivey when Chris Moneymaker won At this point I was a fan, I didn't play poker. but still watching him play, about the way that he played. And it's Phil Ivey, one of the Just a very intense and aggressive player, and he's equally difficult to So he's always a threat in tournament poker. The most impressive to me what really stood out and burned into my memory was I believe final table [Cheering / Screaming] An incredible knockout blow for probably the best player So he got his money in great. And I had seen other people celebrate when they won, I'd see people get upset when they lost and he just said: &quot;Good game&quot; That absolutely was In my eyes and the eyes of all my peers, guys that were playing online who were really really good. But Patrik started online, the only true live first crusher online he was the biggest winner online I was playing my low stakes I watched him on TV poker that was so calm and quiet at the tables and it was very clear, the respect of everybody at the table. around poker player in the world. pretty much in any game. likes of Stu Ungar, Ted Forrest and Chris I think you see a lot of great players at But until Phil Ivey's knocked off that pedestal, My most memorable hand against Phil Ivey is $300/$600, it's the first time I ever I sat down with him, heads up. hands into the heads up match. he raised the small blind, I called. And I check-raise. I shoved my $60k in happily. Which sent me packing back to before I tried those stakes again. playing online $200/$400 PLO heads up feel like I was stronger than him as a player and I returned the favor of the and I set over set him for a $80k pot or so and so I look and I'm like I don't... we're playing heads up online I don't really want to answer the phone. but it's Phil Ivey... You know: &quot;Hello&quot; and he just says: I just, you know, awkwardly laugh &quot;Yeah, I mean it is... it is that easy&quot;. And he just kept talking These are very high stakes, I'm thinking to myself... get reads on me through the phone. but I was also too I guess So we just sat and played there for a while, I don't really remember. I just think that the combination of the that intimidation factor that he has really creates a disparity in focus. uneasy. appears to be completely fearless at the table He's also intimidating off the poker table So, we're filming Poker After Dark at the Aria. It was Phil a couple other players and myself. out after a little while and says: the sushi cart is backed up&quot;. just says: &quot;The sushi cart's backed up?&quot; sushi cart's backed up And I'm sitting there and I maybe he was playing craps I don't know. nobody saying anything and we realize that he's joking. He probably enjoys intimidating and I think he seems to enjoy There was a site, the results in all the online high stakes games of the biggest winners and biggest losers. And in 2008, I won about $8 million and I was second on the leaderboard to Phil Ivey hours just trying to... to have a big heater at the end. It didn't happen, and I talked to him about it later, and he had no idea what I was talking about. he didn't know that he was He didn't care. Ivey at the high stakes online, because he had the highest continuation And normally when somebody it means that they're making a mistake but it just worked for him. There was nobody else that I played against, that would bet the flop so and it's funny that one random where I check-called twice with bottom pair with an under pair to top pair His style really frustrated me and People think about how Phil's a good hand reader, they think about how he's fearless. And you kind of have to be extremely intelligent but because he doesn't talk about poker. and actually the few times that he does that my generation of online I think people don't realize just If you're going to be one You just have to be extremely smart. Staying interested, and learn new things is really... but the problem is that once I get into something You know like, I have to set a timer because Whenever I played against Ivey, the other one being Viktor Blom, ahead of me in the leveling war. You need to understand how people think but it requires a lot of IQ as well. what the implications of how You have to think about all the things Or, long-standing history at the table. and what you should do about it. Ivey, he's just... It's there's no other way to put it. like I paid attention to every single detail And being focused in like, you know like I didn't realize until I wasn't trying very hard, You don't see many people with that. like being able to like and like body language stuff I just... One thing I noticed about Phil and his is that he started taking more unorthodox lines. in the same way that a lot of my generation were. He wasn't analyzing stats. like the rest of us did when he played online. and he saw them getting better And so it was kind of like where there is like technicalities where he knew that he could one up them. and I love seeing that from him in the posts solver era, but you can absolutely get people and outside of the lines they've into spots where you're You know, a decade and a half, two decades ago. I think is the most fun. that Phil Ivey thinks is the most fun And what a fold there by Ivey. and just folds to the overbet on the turn I would bet a lot of money Phil Ivey wasn't studying with any of to see him continue to compete against players who are so technically like when you're playing 300 you can take people to the streets. blinds deep in a high roller tournament, So, I don't know if he's but he's still managing to compete with everybody if he's been looking at some charts finally. Phil Ivey is a bit of an enigma. To the public he's mostly But I have hung out with him a couple So, I was living in New York as was &quot;LarsLuzak&quot; (aka) Sami Kelopuro. Lars and his friend for drinks. We started drinking our drinks already gone back to the bar somehow finished theirs in the meantime. I'm not a very big guy. and it was hitting me pretty hard. I was pretty drunk and obviously and after dinner was the club. and everybody would grab one So he was, he just dumped it on the ground He was just pretending when he looked up after the shot, is looking right back at him, I was not dumping my shots remember a lot of the rest of night. Phil Ivey had a driver and a car for the day and just like barely awake. and I found myself throwing up all We pulled over, I saw Phil just throwing, hundreds at the driver saying: We all got in cabs and made our way home. The interesting part of the story to me He asked how I was doing. and I mean I think 20%-30% and he was kind of laughing at me that he was making sure that I was okay. He was checking up on me. nobody else there that night So I thought that was thoughtful of him. Phil Ivey's arguably the greatest of all time. I don't know if at times I felt like I but I usually was intimidated I definitely feel as though he had my number, There are just some people that the big pots tend to go their I think it's mostly variance, and Phil Ivey was one of the few who I mean, how did he do it? and even if he wasn't studying I can tell that he's driven and I'm sure I don't know what way that was honestly. 90% of the reason that he