More than half of Americans $100,000 a year to be The benchmark of a six gold standard income. It represented the tipping disposable income and based on your wants, not The American Dream is what lifestyle. You're able to You're able to put food on your family's head, and you savings. Now, people making well over paycheck to paycheck. What used to symbolize keeping people stressed 26% say they would need more $100,000 to $149,000 per financially comfortable. I think, unfortunately, what haven't kept up with the large, for the last 50 becomes increasingly hard to attain that sort of American dream. How much you need to feel much depending on not only but of course, your that a six figure salary but nowadays that may not in certain parts of the York or San Francisco, just to cover your daily Here's why a $100,000 buys the American Dream. GoBankingRates analyzed how and two children would need a car and a pet, as well as their income for savings spending. The core of what the amount of economic security get by and do a bit better, parents, maybe be able to Certainly be able to save All 50 states require more income, with 38 states The most affordable states Kentucky -- need between The median income for a each of those states in $87,000. Hawaii, California most expensive. Each requires an annual $240,000. The median income those three states in 2022 of what's required for the A different analysis from AP the country, a family of needs on less than $100,000 Those include things such transportation, health a few other basic It doesn't take into account It's really just putting roof over your head, family and so you're not something happens to their job. So there's no retirement, for kids Those are the kinds of to save for. Those are the consider a part of the Only about 3% of those income higher than the The idea behind the American even though lifestyles It used to be that you a job, buy a home, and And now those milestones It used to be that a high to go. You could get a something and be right in high school degree. But the middle class, a high enough. Right now, you got People are graduating with balances, and then it's sort of career trajectory stability that you maybe ago to save up for the down Student loan debt reached an trillion in the first This can have a ripple entire generations are with thousands of dollars So when we think about the want to make for your college has gone up a lot inflation. So trying to smaller and smaller cost of living can be very impossible. And so the people can rack up going to larger, and your ability to yourself, be able to buy a your parents house. Those difficult over time. The American Dream typically and having children, but inaccessible for many have attained these things managing every dollar stay afloat. So that trade cost of the American dream. Millennials and Gen Zers despite feeling like they 62% of younger millennials say owning a home is part 66% of U.S. Renters surveyed say rising hopeless about ever owning 72% of respondents say they payment. 17% of all home the down payment was the buying process, and 52% delayed their ability to The typical first time household income of Nationally, a prospective nearly $110,000 salary to interest, taxes and median price home. But the median household in 2022 was a little under If you're born into a nice parents have lots of wealth chances of doing well are The part that's home Collectively, Americans owe credit cards. Inflation -- it's eroding It's reducing their ability invest in these longterm So that loss of financial of powerlessness and to feelings of uncertainty It can really impact resilience, their overall Economists have suggested substitution for income More than a quarter of doom spending or spending concerns. There's also this idea that more discouraged in their So in that way, they're are for long time goals and the moment. It's just sort only live once. I may not buy a home trip or let's go to that Swift concert or other, you 73% of Gen Zers say the difficult to set up long And it's not just about about wanting to enjoy life you have, even if you can't you know you're not and you really want to, you yourself in the moment. People are indulging to the often buy because we think our life or it's going to feel like we're missing. And it's like an endless constantly going to make us externalizing something ourselves. I think that's a and it's running rampant. Social media has changed the because there's just been ability to see these lifestyles. It's not only presenting themselves this peers, which makes a lot of just not measuring up. They can't financially seeing online. It has left a lot of adults, feeling very financial standing. Even if they're doing okay, way when they compare seeing on social media. The question is, are you of the birth lottery, are opportunities that are the may have been born into circumstances than your The American dream is all The birth lottery shouldn't So it's deeply relative.