Listen to my command. One, two, three . Oh my God, can you hit it accurately? My hand is too cold. Don't come out with me anymore. Jason. Did Jason receive it? Did Jason receive it? Something happened . Let's go check theirs. The location is received. This is a good thing. This is also a good thing. This is a hard film. What are you doing? Lao Chai has a plane. How do you move and withdraw ? Go back to your hometown and take him back . Damn it, I have to kill him. He is useful to us. Hurry up. Hurry up. Report to the base quickly , Wanli, shoot, shoot, you bastard, Wanli , shoot, shoot, Wanli, shoot, Wanli, shoot, Wanli, Wanli , Wanli , Wanli , Wanli , old chai, old chai, who asked you to shoot, who asked you to shoot. The instructor of the gun, the situation is critical and we have to fire, otherwise all of us will be exposed. Do you know the instructor, the weapon of the United States , the American gun? Put it away. Yu Congrong and Wan Li didn't see it, but I took this car. I'm going to blow you up. What did the company commander teach you when you set off ? Come on, come on, come on, comrades, come on, hurry up, this big guy, help me. Company commander and pig, I've brought them back to you. Where have you been? You brat has grown up. Who told you to run around? The target of my Seventh Company has been exposed. Gather everyone, march quickly, get out of here . Gather quickly, get out of here. Free up your hands and deal with you. Come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, follow you. Pig blood is splattered on the face . There is a group of American soldiers coming to the village. Where are the American soldiers? At the entrance of the village, they are spreading out and hiding and preparing to fight. They are all heavy equipment. I found footprints here again. Go in and search. Action: Lao Xiao, look at their equipment. They are quite capable. If we had this guy, this battle would be easier . Yes, which direction should we go ? Where did the gunfire come from ? It should be the direction of Lao Xiao, Lao Xiao and their reconnaissance. Shouldn't the company commander? Let's go fast, Pinghe , let's go quickly , Lao Xiao and Lao Fang, do you know if there is something going on over there? Lao Qian, follow me. Laifu , walk , shoot, shoot Qingyan, give me the heavy firepower. Prepare to use grenades to clean the battlefield and quickly evacuate in front of Dabao. What's going on, company commander ? Lao Xiao said this is not the way to Xingxingli. We are going the wrong way. We have to go east. What's wrong? Did Lao Xiao say that it takes a few days or two to get to Xingxingli? I mean, you can tell a Yankee like this. It's great. Isn't that what this means when fighting? Isn't this all about carrying a head? Why are you shaking ? I, I, I, are shaking. Look, I'll tell you what you can do. We are fighting. It's an ambush. You see these two guys have nothing to do. If the Americans discover us first, what will happen? But the guns they made are indeed powerful. Yes, this looks very horizontal. Yes, that's amazing. This bullet came out like a grenade . Just now, this guy almost deafened me. We have never seen this car before. It has a wheel in front and a track in the back. Let's take a look. Let's take a look. What do you think? Is it a car or a tank? Do you think you can blow up the tracks with a grenade ? Come and try. Isn't it a waste? This is not a plane. Quick retreat, concealed retreat, quick retreat. I found a group of Chinese soldiers requesting permission for artillery bombardment and permission to perform fast concealment. Spread out into the ditch, quickly spread out, hurry up the pillars, rescue the wounded, hurry up, Lao Mei, leave the second platoon to me , I'll rescue Lao Xiao and the others, you take the others to Xinxingli first, catch up in the past two days, we'll be in Xinxing when we arrive. Let's meet here. Second Platoon, come with me. Captain Changxi, pull out immediately after rescuing his comrades. Don't be reluctant to fight. I'm waiting for you in Xinxingli. Don't worry about your life. Take care of yourself. The first, third, and fourth platoons all have the emergency march target to the east. Put this in Xinxingli. Give me two days to grab it back and set off. Everyone is scattered . Lao Xiao, what are they coming up ? I said enemy troops. Enemy troops are coming up. Please lower your voice. I can hear you. I said this is a tank and an airplane. Maybe they will take us for granted. Fortunately, we encountered a large force. If we encountered each other, we would have to leave them all here. Is that okay ? It just so happens that we hold this group of enemies here to buy time for the company commander and instructor to rush to Xinxingli. The grenades are ready to listen to my order and kill the enemies. Put it closer and fight again. It's a fight. Chief, I followed their footsteps and found them in a Korean village. They have been trapped by us. Changxi , please bring some people to outflank them from below. You guys are following me. The rest. Come with me to support Lao Xiao. The tanks are coming. Go, go, go , go. Go, save people, evacuate quickly. Dazhu is in trouble, no one is gone. Come on, Old Fang. Does he still have bullets? Blue Eyes is gone . There is only one grenade left. Come on , Old Master Fang, this time we have got a plate of hard food. It's really not shabby. It's not shabby. Fight with them. Lao Fang followed and dispersed . Company Commander is here . Company Commander, why are you here? We have to hold off the enemy so that you can rush to Xingxingli. What nonsense are you talking about? Our Seventh Company has never left our comrades behind. Hurry up and set up the mortars . Calculate the distance and fire immediately. The target is 85 meters away from the left front. Prepare to release . It's company commander Wan Li. Come on in . Who asked you to come? I'm worried about you. You're so worried. The two of you provide cover to attract some enemy firepower. It's a big spring . Let's leave the tank to you. Zhong Dabao , you guys are coming with me. Rush to the left. There are enemies rushing into the small courtyard. Hurry up. Everyone on the right, push forward . Dachun, hurry up. Get rid of the heavy firepower and start firing. Cao Zi is taking cover . Run fast , you bastards. We need to mobilize more firepower. Our soldiers who continue to bombard the village are unable to carry out large-scale bombing. This war has lost its sweetness. We should retreat first. These Chinese are really a bunch of unbeatable lunatics . Damn it, order our soldiers to withdraw. I want to request to the headquarters. Planes are bombing the headquarters. We need air support right now. Damn it , let's retreat quickly . Retreat quickly and meet up with the instructors. Hurry. The U.S. military's equipment is really rich. Let's see how it's exposed to the world. Company commander, let's go and get them. Then grab those irons. The bumps are all treasures. If this falls into our hands, I wonder what the Seventh Company will do to compare with us. The instructor is not here , and we can't mess around. Besides, what will the Seventh Company do to compare with us? We are the number one sharp knife company . Yes, yes, yes, is there any news about the Seventh Company? We have sent soldiers several times. We have gone back to reconnoiter, but we haven't seen any shadows. This time, we are five thousand miles away. The company commander is in our hands. How long is the latest arrival time? There are still two days left. Let me tell you. He said that the seventh company must have encountered some kind of trouble. If the seventh company can't arrive on time, we have to sing the show ourselves. It 's hidden. Damn it, why are these air forces throwing airdrop boxes around again ? They are blind. Damn, they always give us trouble. Guys, look at this air force. They're always so arrogant and drop boxes so far away. Assholes , so who wants to go ? No one wants to go. It's me again . Yeah, that's right. Assholes, they always let us go. Let's do this damn job. Why did you guys end up here ? Our three platoons are hiding there. What should we do? Company Commander , the Yankees are here to get supplies. Get off the bus . Get off the bus. Guys, please be alert. Yes, sir , move, move, move. Hurry up and drop the airdrop. Take the boxes away. I don't want to stay in this damn place for too long. Let's get this done and go back and have a drink. I hate this job. When we win this damn war we can go home. Yeah man. I haven't had a good time in a long time. I 've finished a bottle of whiskey. I'm going to take a pee. Okay, but hurry up. We have to get the supplies back. There's too much work to do. The company commander can't fight. The other companies haven't arrived yet. They can't be exposed . Come on, take it apart, man. Come here and help, no, our mission is just to escort you bastards , buddy, get better soon. What's wrong, buddy, are you drunk? Richie has been exposed . If you don't hit the third row, you will be gone. You can't hide. Richie, are you okay? Richie, why are you kneeling? I 'm talking to you, Chinese, hit me. There are Chinese, rush up and fire . Chinese, there are Chinese , rush up, fire, fire , fire , fire, fire, up, up , up , up, the enemies are all up, retreat , disperse, hurry up, hurry up. Come on, comrade, you don't want to die. Go back and be strong enough to take the first class around and take care of the greyhound. Come with me. Prepare grenades. It's a big forest. Get rid of the cannon man. Open fire and let out smoke. Go to the second platoon and second class. It 's a cover. It's a strong cover. It 's a dispersed breakout . It's the Chinese. You said where did this prodigal thing die? It 's really worrying every day. Isn't it the Americans who are fighting for thousands of miles? Such a little brat deserves to make such a big fuss. I didn't see the corpses all over the ground. Follow me and walk away resigned to my fate. Is there any movement ? Is it Wanli? Is it Wu Wanli ? If you don't die, get out of here . Wanli, listen to me. I'll tell you. How many years will it take for this little foal to grow into a donkey? It's been less than a month since you came out. No one will blame you for coming out. What nonsense are you talking to? Wait until I go in and kill you. Are you going to come out Wanli? Don't listen to him . You don't know who he is? He's just flying in. Little bastard, get up and walk quickly. Are you okay , little bastard ? You 're disobeying my order . Why did you do this? You Liuliu Shun, where the hell have you been? I'm waiting, waiting, waiting. I'm not coming to your team. They broke up. You know we are here. Why are you having sex with the Yankees now ? Nonsense. They landed in front of me as soon as the drop box dropped. They were all exposed . After fighting all night, the team was broken up. Where did you go? You are lost . Nonsense. This is the first time to go abroad. Can you not get lost in battle ? Did you see Wanli? Did you see Wanli? Your brother is lost . Don't worry about this little brat. He accepts his fate . This place is too close to the US military camp. These Americans will have to come in a while. You hurry back and find the instructor and ask them to take a detour down the mountain . Go there quickly . What's wrong with Wanli? I can't do any tasks for this little bastard. Why is it you? Why did your brother run away ? If you have a really bad temper, I sympathize with your brother and old boy. You should sympathize with yourself first. Company Da Linzi, company Da Zhuang , Da Zhuang, and the others are all gone . Want to run and chase him , bastard , damn it, Qianli Company Commander, Captain, why are you here? A group of what is coming over there. A group is coming over there. Finally, the fifth company is here. Listen, from now on, you will listen to the command of the seventh company commander . I can't let me. The last comrades are going to die, I'm going to hold them back, old boy, you're crazy, you've forgotten our mission. If we don't hold them back, we'll all die. Who will complete the mission ? So we all have to stay alive and wait for Lao Mei and the others to come to support. Listen. My ability is to disperse, conceal, and move covertly . I can move , disperse, and find cover. It's thousands of miles away. You go in first, squat down quickly , company commander , tell me what's the point of doing this thing? It's so hard. I'll just go out and lure the Yankees away. I can still carry a few with me. Is this useful? You can see for yourself in a moment . You are not clear-headed now. For the time being, let me take command. We just hide from the Yankees and walk around. If we can't find anyone , we may think we have run away. Go up to the second floor over there and go to the lieutenant. The enemy is here. Hide inside and find them. Search the village. Damn it, they must still be inside . Go and search from the front. If you find any Chinese, kill them on the spot. Move, move , move. Let's go thousands of miles up . Come on, these Americans have surrounded this village. Company Commander, can't do it ? Go with them. I'll kill them with two shots. Shut up. It's not your turn to talk. Wait, start moving. Move, these bastards. Can you hide this? Don't discuss it. I'll go out and lure them away . I'll start a fight here. Just take Wanli away and you come back to me. Come back . Can I let you go out alone to attract firepower? And how long can you attract firepower? Wait for Lao Mei, Lao Mei, why don't you come and wait to die? I believe that if you accept your fate, you will be able to find Lao Mei. Listen to you. Command, old boy , it doesn't work. Blow up these Yankees. What's going on inside ? Someone planted a grenade. There must be many Chinese ambushing here. We need more powerful firepower. Order the soldiers to get back to the armored vehicles, get on, get on , get on, get on, think. If you do n't want to go home, why don't you? There's no one at home. I just want to drink a bowl of polenta made by my mother. Old boy , come here and squat down for me. Hide here. Let 's attract fire. Don't come out together. Go to hell and obey the order , or I'll break your monkey legs and hide. This old boy is trying to be a hero in front of me. Be careful, brother, hurry up, fight , force these Chinese out , and fight . There are Chinese there, you don't understand. What did I say? Old boy , you really think I can lose to you, do you? Our fifth company is enough. If you can't use it, don't fight back. Let the armored vehicles fire. Force these Chinese people out to fight back. The enemy is on the second floor. Let's go quickly. Dalin, Dalin is fine. Grandpa can't die. This is our fifth company's first battle with sharp knives . We can't lose. Send a signal and fight . Grandpa is a soldier of the fifth company. Li Xiucai, Xiucai, be careful of grenades. I'm such a bad-tempered old boy. Come on, company commander , old boy, don't mess around. I'm killing an American. What's the point of messing around ? Do you have grenades? There are no bullets and there aren't many left. Fuck them for me . That Greyhound thing is troublesome. You have to find a way to get rid of it. There's nothing left . What is it? Wanli is covering . Can you listen to me for once? I will send you guys. I have such a bad temper. Company commander. Company commander, come back. Old boy, help me take care of Wanli. Brother Qianli , come back and hold him down. He is covering. Brother , please be honest with me. Wait, wait, let me go. That's my brother. I'm going to save him. Who can you save like this? Your brother is not here. Listen to my brother Wanli. I'm giving you a task now. Find Lao Mei and ask him to come quickly. Only in this way can we save us. Do you understand? I'm not a deserter. Don't think I don't know what you think. I'm not asking you to be a deserter. I'm asking you to move thousands of miles to rescue soldiers . You are a soldier now. You must know how to obey orders. Do you understand? Brother, your brother has been a soldier for more than ten years. Soldiers will not die so easily. Big Zhuang, protect Wanli and lead him to break out from behind . If I don't follow the order, get out of here. Brother, company commander. Brother , go away Wanli. You go first. I 'll accompany you . Fire to stop them. Grenade, quickly dodge. Hurry up, our seventh company has to reach Xuzhou before the rest of the group. Brother, if we win this battle, there will be no place for Chiang Kai-shek to hide . It will not be like the days when the Japanese devils beat Chiang Kai-shek and the common people in the past two years. It's been too hard. If we can win this battle, let's go home and see our father, mother, and Wanli, that little monkey comrade . If we win this battle, the leader said, he will give us seven consecutive commendations. Good brother , there is going to be a commendation meeting. Can I receive a first-class merit medal or something? How can I receive a first- class merit award ? Of course I know that I am not afraid of hardship or difficulties and bravely kill the enemy. I, Wu Qianli, can do it on the battlefield. We have killed many reactionaries. The people in our old Wu family are all very conscious. A few of our seventh company have won first-class merit. They are those old warriors who are not afraid of completing tasks with difficulty and protecting others with their own lives. Brother, brother , brother, wake up. Brother, are you okay? Brother, go quickly, ten thousand miles away, go away ten thousand miles, go, go, go, go, let me take you together . Brother , hide. Wanli, listen to brother once and go find Lao Mei. Go, go fast. Hide, go quickly. Let me blow it up. Listen to what I say, ten thousand miles away. Spread out thousands of miles. If you shoot well, if you shoot well, the 7th company will charge with me. If you charge to the north hillside, there will be Chinese people charging and charging. Then retreat and find cover. If you shoot well, if you shoot well, the mortars will be on top for me to collect the artillery . Go ahead, there are enemies to the west, comrades, rush over and retreat quickly , come back, come back, come back, old money is coming, old money is coming, old money is coming, come over , it's okay, old money, save me. The mission is not completed. I can't die. Don't worry , I'm here. Even the King of Hell can't take the money away. Don't worry. Squad leader, Iron Hammer. Iron Hammer, come over here . Wait a minute. Hammer , come back. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. I'll show you the old money. Please let go of me. Lao Xiao. They are already here. We're in front, I can't let them charge alone. The squad leader's mouth has been pierced. If you still charge, if you rush over, you will die. Wait a moment. I, old man, please bandage it quickly. Don't act like a bitch. I know, I know, old man, hurry up. Lao Xiao and the others are already rushing ahead. It's coming. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Hammer, old money, can you hurry up ? Don't be anxious. My duty is to treat your injuries. You guys are going to cover up from behind and chase after everyone. Don't stay . Hurry up and chase. The blue-eyed grenade is to go to the old side, cover up , spread out , rush, rush, it's a smoke bomb. This is a smoke bomb. The Americans are going to run up . The platoon leader has a heavy machine gun . I'm going to cover you. You can carry it to me from the side. Throw, throw , rush, raise your hands, raise your hands, get off , get off, bastard , Laifu, are you okay? Platoon leader, I'm fine , Laifu, haven't you been in a truck team? Can this thing be fixed? You let me try, it should be fine. Question, other soldiers can follow me quickly Rush, hurry, hurry , laifu boy, okay, you can retreat if you are on fire , retreat quickly, go up and shoot them to death. Fight, fight, fight, fight . Okay, go up and see if there is anything in Laofang . I want to ask you, is there any? It's fat enough. Take them all away . First, rescue the wounded. Send the wounded to Lao Qian. Come on, Lao Fang. The smoking thing the Yankees threw just now is called a smoke bomb . If it had been a grenade, I would have been honored. This thing kills people. It's not very powerful but it's very concealable. I'll use it in the future. I figured out that the Yankees were very detailed in fighting. This is what they use when they beat you. This is what they use when they get beaten. What are you doing? Don't tell me, I haven't seen this thing before. Next time we fight, try it with a Yankee, don't you know? Take everything you can with you. It's Liuliu Shun. Company Commander, Company Commander, Company Commander , Wanli , are you okay , kid? Can you come quickly next time , Company Commander ? I know you are a cat and you have nine lives . Company Commander, we can no longer fight head-on with the US military to prevent enemy planes from bombing us. Now we need to rush to Xingxingli as soon as possible to complete our mission. Seventh Company All, a team of three rushed to Xinxingli as a team. We have traveled thousands of miles to return to the team. Hurry up, go, brat, I knew you wouldn't die. The seventh company commander is new. I've been in the army for a week, so he's still new. Are you afraid of going to the battlefield for the first time ? What are you afraid of? You have to eat something in your stomach before you can vomit it. How long have you been in the army ? I have been in the army for half a month. Then you say that I am a recruit. Aren't you also a recruit yourself? I have more than you. Why are you so proud of fighting two battles and killing three Japanese devils ? You wait for me and I will definitely kill more than you in the future . Let's compare . What's your name? Wu Qianli, my name is Liuliu Shun. Remember , if I win, you have to pay. I lit up a cigarette and won. If my last name is the same , you lost . We are late. We are late. Light a cigarette. You won . Lao Qi took the fifth company home . Why are you crying? I, I want to go home. I will be happy. The old boy is waiting for me at home. I have to go find you sooner or later. Then we can continue the competition and go back, buddy. Thank you. It's such a good luck. He gave me the B-type can. Yes , General MacArthur. Since our Seventeenth Infantry Division, the Seventeenth Regiment The leading troops arrived at Huishan Town on the Yalu River easily on the 21st. Soldiers from the 17th Regiment and the 32nd Regiment were also dispatched to recreate our feat in World War II on the Rhine, the mother river of the Germans. The patrol arrived at the Yalu River and peed on the river. That is the end of our offensive, and it may also be our new starting point. Take care of your subordinates. Major General , your commander of the 1st Marine Division, Smith, was too cautious. He kept asking me. The report found out the intelligence of the Chinese. These Chinese were only wearing thin cotton clothes and did not have the conditions to carry out a long-term large-scale ambush on the Korean Peninsula. This was impossible. Our planes were digging graves for them with bombs. He was as stubborn as a hair in heat. Old Lion, but please rest assured that our 7th Infantry Division and 1st Marine Division's plan to advance along the east and west banks of Changjin Lake towards the Yalu River is still proceeding in an orderly manner. Where did our tank company go? We contacted them via radio an hour ago. They should arrive. Surabaya is here. Let the soldiers speed up and build the fortifications. Pass the order . Go ahead and pass on the order. Yes, sir, Colonel McClean. We found a large number of Chinese in the village below the 1100 Highland on the northern line . My reconnaissance team was attacked . Please calm down. The Chinese do not dare to officially participate in the war. The number of soldiers they send to North Korea will not exceed 30,000 at most. It is far less cold than Siberia. When the battle situation on the northern front of Smith's western front troops stabilizes, we will continue to push northward and kill these nosy Chinese. Driving out of the Yalu River is an operation. What are you doing ? Go thousands of miles and come back. Brother Zhuang , your company commander is a hero. I will remember his thousands of miles . When he comes back, I will definitely remember him. Do n't run around thousands of miles. Don't wander around. Squad leader, when will we start fighting? Oh , why are you waiting for orders from the regiment? I'm freezing to death. I'm sorry. I didn't obey orders and you got scolded again. Why are you talking about these things ? It's okay. It's okay. Xiao Wanli, you really should control your temper. I understand, bro . I've always wanted to ask you, what's the point of holding on to that lump of wood ? I think pigeons can keep me warm. Who is the hero and who is the bear? Who is the No. 1 Sharp Sword Company? Before we looked at the battlefield, it was the Seventh Company. This is the Seventh Company to support you. The No. 1 Sharp Sword Company. Collect these things and don't let them go . How about I salute you first and keep them for me? I'll wait. You give me some one by one , Old Seven, if you win and I lose this bet , I don't plan to go back. Almost all the comrades of the fifth company died here. I must fight to the death. Only when we become stronger will the enemy know how to respect us. If you take the fifth company home, you'll be fine. What can I do ? I don't know. Anyway , it's fine. I 'll leave Da Zhuang to your artillery platoon. Don't worry. Leave Da Zhuang to me. I 'll be fine for the war. Don't think too much before. Use Laomei's telescope and be careful. Okay, don't look at Baili. It's been almost two years since we left. His mood has just calmed down. Liuliu Shun died again. I'm really afraid that something will happen to him . Dad, we have been fighting for so many years and you still don't know him well. He knows what he should do and what his responsibilities are. It's because I know him so well that he knows what responsibilities he should do . You have to keep an eye on this matter . Don't worry . You know that our Seventh Company cannot do without you, Father Lei. How about our mission is to help the main force in the east find a way and then assist the main force to rush into the enemy's position as quickly as possible with minimum sacrifice. We are waiting for the signal from the regiment headquarters to launch a general offensive. Once the charge is launched, each platoon combat team should follow the tactics of infantry and artillery coordination. Thunder attack the other platoons first and then follow up . Don't worry, report the regiment commander's call from the division headquarters that our regiment has arrived at Xingxingli. The troops will cooperate with the brothers to launch an attack on the enemy's polar bear regiment. When firing a flare, you need to cross the bridge immediately and rush, rush, what are you doing? Let me go. You are in my artillery platoon now. You have to follow me. The artillery platoon is here. Come with me. The No. 2 charge instant fuze is 800 meters ahead of the target. One shot is ready to be released . Headquarters Headquarters We were attacked. We were attacked . How many enemy troops there were? There were Chinese troops charging on the north and southeast fronts. The number could not be counted. All cats were raised. Cats were raised. The armored forces quickly defended and supported the counterattack. I received blue eyes. Knock out the searchlights for me. Yes , I will sweep them to death. You bunch of bastards ca n't see anything with blue-eyed smoke bombs . You can't let them cross the bridge and shoot. What's wrong? Dad Lei, I can't get it in. It's a narrowed chamber. Lao Mei, take this iron bastard and point the heavy machine gun on the right to me. I 've got the thunder gun, is it dumb again? Is there a grenade? Is there a grenade ? Everyone listens. If there is a grenade, take the grenade. If there is no grenade, pick up the gun. I'm so happy that you can give it to me here. It 's Wanli Dazhuang. You two are leaving . The remaining people are on top. I'm the platoon leader . I'm also a soldier of the 7th company. I applied to go down together. I don't understand what I say. I obey orders. I can throw rocks. I can throw grenades. Stay close, I don't allow myself to run around . Big Zhuang is left for me to charge . Don't use this thing as a tank. It 's too late. The main force of our regiment has come up . Charge. Charge . There are minefields. Don't rush forward. Retreat . There are minefields in front of Pinghe River. Prepare to jump out of the car. Jump quickly . Company Commander Lei Dad Qianli, why did you get down ? Only one cannon can be fired. The others have frozen and shrunk. What are you doing? Fire, fire , fire, fire . Comrades, we are out on the road. Rush, rush. Follow me. Charge , charge. Immediately notify Colonel McClean. The Chinese have broken through the defense line. Open fire and quickly pass through the barbed wire fence to seize the enemy's headquarters. Comrades on the demolition team, charge, charge, shoot hard. Don't let them break through the barbed wire fence, open fire, and annihilate them. Hold on, guys ! Kill with heavy fire . Immediately notify the artillery to cover the perimeter of the barbed wire fence with artillery fire and annihilate them. Lieutenant, bastard , we can't stand it any longer. Lieutenant, hold on as long as you can and annihilate them. Open fire and annihilate them. It's useless to defend here. Immediately retreat to the next line of defense. Retreat. Retreat. Retreat. When the grenade is fired, hurry up and go back to find Mr. Thunder. Come on, hurry up . White phosphorus bombs will kill Pinghe and cover me. I will lead the men to rush in . Rush, Major General MacLean called General MacLean Almond. We are now facing a large-scale attack by the Chinese. The numbers are basically non-existent. It is impossible to calculate that our intelligence is wrong . I wonder how these Chinese people evaded our double reconnaissance by planes and ground and double reconnaissance on the ground. Suddenly appeared on my doorstep, don't be so nervous, Colonel. Even if they come, with their military power , there is no way they can compete with us. Tell them who we are. Polar bears never give up . Did you hear that? Polar bears are in trouble. Don't forget. The Glory of the Polar Bear Regiment . The Chinese are not that scary. Use tanks and heavy artillery to drive them out . Bianzi , I will blow you up and kill you. Wanli, go, go, don't die . Go, go, go, go, go , kill me. Brother, this is the United States. The Molotov cocktail, it should have been this just now . The Americans are really cruel. Let's throw this back and let them have a taste . Comrades, throw this over to Blue Eyes. The grenade is put down, put down the gun, put down the gun, put down the gun, and do n't fire. Don't shoot the gun. Put the gun down. Put the gun down. Put the gun down and run. Are you okay, kid? Platoon leader, can our grenade blow up that thing? The grenade will blow up the tank. The grenade is burning a fire stick in front of the tank. Lao Chai is using a grenade to connect that thing. The tower has been blown up by me. Go quickly. It's a grenade. Get ready to knock down the communication tower and hide it. What are you doing? There are no grenades. How can we fight this battle against the Iron Bastard ? Just one Iron Bastard. Just one Iron Bastard. The platoon leader tank is coming. Come on, comrades. I took two explosive packs and blew up this iron bastard. It was a cover for me to hold him back . What's wrong with the instructor? I couldn't get through at all. They used this iron bastard to create a fascination array. The firepower was too intensive. We charged for a few rounds and let them all go. After you come back, you can think of other ways . You can't bury them all here, Maodan Maodan. My legs, Maodan legs, old Qian Maodan. Hold on, take the explosive pack and blow up the iron bastard to avenge the comrades. It's a hammer. Come back and provide fire cover. Cover the Hammer and accept your fate . Let's find a way to withdraw first. Go quickly. Spread out. Master, the firepower on the other side is too strong and the grenades can't be reached. So don't throw them around. Keep some grenades. Come on, Captain Mei. Come on. Company Commander, what's going on now? Damn, their tanks have too much firepower. We can't even go up there. Let's go and search to see if there's anything useful in there. Search quickly. Search quickly. There are grenades here for the instructor. There are some bullets for the heavy machine gun here. There are some bullets for the heavy machine gun. The company commander has a barrel of oil here. Oil barrel grenade platoon leader, I only have this, so there is nothing to worry about him. Say hello first and then talk about how powerful it is. This can fight tanks. This is a duel with tanks. Keep up. Quickly disperse to the two wings. Quickly keep up with the stone. Quickly, company commander. The enemy is attacking us with tanks. The fire defense line has pinned down the large army. We can't attack at all. No matter how hard it is , I have to break the bones. I leave the infantry behind the Laomei tank to you. I accept my fate. You hit the left wing and I hit the right wing. It's so fast. Grenade and grenade seal. Throw it to me , Old Fang, let's use this thing to send the Yankees to the Flame Mountain. It's so green -eyed that the two of us led people to surround us, remembering to burn the turret . It's clear to go and cover it. Where did these brats get the burning? The bomb is on. Come on, help me. Wanli , come here. I'll leave the pillar to you. I'm going to save the pillar. Hurry up and come down Wanli. Wanli, thank God it didn't explode . I don't know if it's because I didn't remove the fuse and threw it in. It's not easy. I was hunting birds at home when I was a kid. I beat you like this every day. It's okay to throw this. Wanli, you are a mortar expert. Wanli, you are a platoon leader who can throw accurately enough. We have a cannon. I ask you, can you get the tank in the distance? It 's a bit far. The platoon leader's car is three meters ahead. If you can hit it accurately, then I'll leave it up to you, kid. From the artillery platoon, give all the grenades to Wanli. Hurry up and deliver the grenades. Hurry up and deliver the grenades. Hurry up. Yu Congrong is covering Wanli. It's Wanli's grenades. Comrades , come with me to cover Wanli Chong. Quick artillery platoon cover, come on , come on, come on, bastard , don't let the enemy break through the defense line and fire, don't mess around, hold on, hold on to the grenades, okay boy , Wanli, you are our artillery, Laifu, oil barrel , ignition , company commander, the Molotov cocktail is lit, ignite it , throw it at them quickly. It's coming. Comrades, follow me. Charge, charge the artillery platoon , charge, old Li Tiedan , go to hell, God, get out, retreat , shrink the defense line, retreat, retreat, shrink the defense line, penetrate deep, quickly , disperse left and right , Wanli Lao Chai, cover him, one, two, three , good boy, doing big things in a muffled voice. Wanli bastard, everyone, cover, hurry up and cover , Lao Chai, go and cover . Is it okay ? I 'm okay, Wanli . Are you two guys so cowardly? You dare to even find charges for a tank . Hurry up and run away. Fire right away to kill these bastards. Fire up, comrade , comrade . Are you okay, comrade ? Are you still alive? I 'm here. I'll continue to charge. The charge is loaded directly. Place it on the enemy tank, which is the target 800 meters ahead . Spread out the load and plow. Here, take this shell. This is the platoon leader. What should we do if we are killed by a tank? First, let the cat wait here for the tank to get close and enter its shooting blind spot, and then attack them. The old mine lay down to cover the field and reload. The company commander is ready. Go to the left front at 11 o'clock and quickly withdraw and reload. The company commander is so quick. The company commander is really tough. This artillery fires really well. Fire , fire , move, and farm. Load the ammunition. The company commander is out of ammunition . Let's fight with you . Spread out. Quickly spread out. Big guns. Fire big guns. Cover big . Strong. Zhuang Changxi, Changxi and the soldiers of the artillery platoon are all gone. Everyone disperses and captures their artillery positions. Hurry up and set off for the artillery positions. Comrades, rush and fire. Rush and rush. Scatter to save people . Save people . Save people. Grenades. Hurry , grenades. Prepare one, two, three for the grenades and give them some hard food. For the mortars, I'll leave the farthest position over there to you. No problem . It's not enough. Okay, that's enough. Row 2, row 2, you guys, go round on both sides and row 3, follow me. From the front, charge three rows up. The victory is right in front of you. Comrades, hold on, don't stop charging. Colonel, there are Chinese people everywhere. Our heavy firepower is useless. I want to return to Xiajieyuli. Our intelligence is complete. That's wrong , Colonel. I think we should organize a counterattack now instead of retreating. My tank company was supposed to be here before midnight. But the last time I heard from them was that they were fighting the damn Chinese on the high ground at 1142 and 1221. People are fighting. Now our heavy firepower is not enough to destroy this group of Chinese. This place is yours. I want to say goodbye to this chaos. I wish you the best. The Chinese are not worthy to be our opponents. Colonel, our soldiers are in rout. We should be the United States. The pride of the Army is why I don't want to fight them. If you want to stay and die, you are welcome. But I advise you to go back to your wife's farm and continue being your farm lady. The school bus is ready for you. Who do you think you are and dare to stop me? I'm sorry, Colonel, you are such a bastard. What a coward. Turn the gun and kill these Yankees. Retreat quickly.