This is the most requested Over the last two months, we've received hundreds Our subreddit is practically Our comment section is overflowing. People are hungry for this game. So today, I will answer the call. Today, I will cover the game that Today, I will be theorizing No, no, no, no, wait, it's scarier than it sounds. Trust me. Hello, Internet. Welcome to Game Theory, the show Although, I became very unsure of my hand at the Roblox game that everyone had It seemed simple enough. You just pick outfits, hairstyles, get your nails Only for you to lose regardless because people How on earth is this kawaii? So I have to say, I was a little I thought maybe Amy and I could do a behind why the theme didn't really seem to matter. But then your comments pointed something out. A book. And it would change everything. It turns out, it's not just What started as a simple April Fool's update has now become four months of nearly All to tell a story of And so, I've been following along, new update, theory crafting in So, sorry Amy, no collab today because show curtain myself and find out what hidden That's what you get for caking me. So, what is this random book that totally On the surface, it's just an NPC nail technician that the Although, she doesn't seem Ahem. Ugh. Fine, I guess we can still collab. You can do the voice. The world's not ready for Thank you, Tom. Ahem. They just call me Nail Lady when My name is Lana, but no one calls me that. I'm gonna run away one day. Sounds pretty understandable, right? She just wants people to call her by her name, What stood out was on the next page, where she writes that she wants to &quot;set fire She even has &quot;Dealt With&quot; written I mean, I'm sure we all have but offing them might be a bit overdramatic. Maybe. Though it turns out, these aren't her colleagues. If you take a closer look at the names, some Okay, cool. We've got a murdery protagonist who is and so she is offering them one by one. Pretty straightforward, right? Well, it was until updates started rolling in. Lana's diary was no longer on full display, However, it was still readable, That isn't me. They replaced me with some doppelganger. That's not me. I'm Lana. She's not. But she's pretending to be me. I don't know where I am. Gigi is holding me somewhere, so I can't escape. Please help me. I am so scared, and I hope that that thing I think she's the reason why all And then, if you take a look at the the names of which match three of the That person she mentions, Gigi, is also a replacing her with this doppelganger, and not All of this is to keep the game running smoothly, However, this is slightly confusing. Lana claims that these people are but the target list that matches the Or was that actually the doppelganger's diary? I'm not entirely sure who I'm but the diary does give us a Roblox user ID that So we should probably start there, and On her page is a link to a YouTube The first video is called Awakening. A face appears and tells Lana, How dare you, Lana, spread our plans? Already, we're off to a mysterious start. Lana has betrayed whatever this Awakening is. I assume by telling us about the doppelganger. In a later video, Ode to Myself, she But in the description, tells us she's Is this group trying to take over the game? To replace all the players with mindless Maybe they're also mad that There is one more video, but it So, I went back to Lana's Roblox page If you look under the Creations tab, you can see And it's called Forest. It invites us to view the truth of Lana's story. Given that we're specifically looking But be warned, this game is A blood-red filter covers the screen. Eerie music plays in the background. And a human eye is constantly watching you. As you wander through the forest, you can That she was diagnosed with a terminal And that she now works in Given her diary told us I suspect she turned to this It would be classic cult-like manipulation. They promise her financial support only for them And I think I might be right, Lana's doppelgangers try to kill you. This is the truth that they want hidden. But if you manage to avoid them, you can find a podium that requires Get to the end, and you'll receive You may have finished your trials, This is not the end. There will be chaos. Well, chaos is usually bad, so I suppose Fortunately, when I returned to Lana's page, Which is described as &quot;the birth of an uprising. A new dawn where we stand united Alright, let's go! Inside the group, there are a few subgroups too. One of which is called Coterie. A word that means &quot;an exclusive group of persons Lana is already out here building a rebellion. Gathering people through the common That is what led her to get There's also another group called But these aren't the These must be the missing people that The ones the Awakening caused to go missing. She was trying to stop others from disappearing I'm sorry that I doubted your innocence, Lana. Is what I would say if it wasn't You see, it's not a normal bio like most of them. It contains a Caesar Cipher. There are a few small mistakes in the My death was planned by Lana, not evil. The Coterie's not just some group to help her. They're her sacrifices. Ha! I knew it! Cancel my therapy, guys! My trust issues are well-founded! Lana has been convincing us this whole That she was taken advantage of by the Awakening. But no! These missing people aren't just missing. They've been sacrificed by She was in on it the whole time. Or so I thought if it wasn't for Here she'd appear for live events She confirmed some things like how the Awakening lured her in by promising to But as these live streams kept happening, Suddenly, she actually loved the nail salon, which means she probably wouldn't have turned She also started saying that they weren't That's pretty evil. Is she being coerced again? Nope! Red text appeared on screen and said... Don't believe her! Please! That is not the real Lana! And everyone got booted out of the &quot;I am the real Lana.&quot; The Lana we've been talking The real Lana is innocent. But then Questionnaire got an update that added a house with a new version of Jayla's eyes are gone. Nicholas's heart is gone. Jisoo's voice is gone. And Sadie has been taken apart. I pray that this stays private. And no one finds out my true I cannot believe how easy it's been to make And now they're all on my side. They will all pay for how they treated me. So that whole kicking us off to get rid Lana has been playing the victim, making us believe anything bad was a But really, Lana was the villain behind it all. I tell ya, this story's got more After this reveal, Lana went full villain mode, executing three members of But the last member, Nelly, Now what happened to Nicholas and all the people Seeing through Lana's deceit, Nelly Finally, Lana's reign of But I'm sure you could all figure Once the dust settles, Lana's YouTube account posted a video There's still more to come. This time, it will be successful, That Lana that was just killed was a doppelganger. Again. But now, she's achieved her goal, The keen-eyed among you will probably The gate that needed four people to activate it. And we now have three dead Coterie Four bodies to help Lana open this new gate. Killing the Coterie members own skin or defending the Awakening. It was always part of her plan. And it's likely why she had sacrificed But that, ladies and gentlemen, And there were two major What is the portal, and why did Lana need it? Well, before we dive into Typically, when it comes to cults and sacrifices, portals would be used to summon However, the portal in the Forest that looked identical to this new one took So, Lana and the Awakening aren't trying Lana's motivations still seem She wants to burn the salon to the ground, and she likely still wants to destroy They designed her boring NPC life. They designed her tragic backstory. And so I suspect whatever lies beyond Maybe she needs to find some demonic Or maybe this new world has some kind of able to transcend the game and Maybe it'd even allow her to enter our world. All of this would certainly But whatever the answer is, I gotta I know I've been sighing about the constant back but I'm just really impressed that there's this many twists hidden inside So I just wanted to take a minute to say thank I'd have never known about this fascinating So please, if you've got recommendations, please I love getting exposed to new games, and I especially love covering games But I should stop with all this mushy so it's time to see if I'm right. After a little bit of time, the Soudade added showing the same portal that But the creator of the group wasn't Lana. It's someone named Agamemnon. Ugh, that is going to be the worst thing to say. I'm gonna call you Aggy. Sound good? At the same time this new group was Agamemnon, I hear your call. I hear it well. I am following your voice, and perhaps it Sounds to me like this guy is trapped in some kind of alternate world or dimension. That's why Lana needs the portal. Was this really just a tragic Soudade does mean the nostalgic longing So that kind of makes sense, but her So we could still be on the right track if he And we don't have to wait that long because and the start of it is on the other There are words written across the walls like They're written over and over and over again, like the writings of a lunatic So basically me when the new Across the map, there are spelling out that while this is the real Lana, she's basically been brainwashed by This stinks of classic cult leader behavior. A man who gathers others around him to worship filling people's heads with promises that Lana isn't in love with this guy, or maybe but it's more like she sees him as her savior which never ends well in these kinds of things. Lana will likely end up betrayed But now, ladies and gentlemen, it's because you can find two doors The note next to the first one reads, call it, open the door, bestow me the truth. So we just repeat that second That leads to a second door The walls speak the truth. Well, we saw three things Finally, I feel free, metamorphosis, and plague. And it's that last one that opens the door. Inside, we find Aggy's helmet in the corner, revealing this to be his office, and Aggy has been the one creating the Thanks to them, Lana deceived everyone But what did he mean by Lana is perfect? Cult leaders like this so what does her being perfect mean for him? Is it that she's the perfect This has to be important. So I decided to look a little more And no, not just because it's hard to pronounce. This game has already used a so I wondered if this would be the same for him. Turns out Agamemnon isn't just a random name. It comes from Greek mythology, Agamemnon was leading an army to Troy by boat, and during the trip incurs the He's told that the only way to appease If he doesn't, then the army will most notably a plague, just like It asked what is coming, So if a plague is on the way, that would to appease whoever he angered, someone But then why bother with the doppelgangers? Well, in some versions of the myth, Agamemnon to trick her into thinking he killed That is what the doppelgangers are for. If he can create one that is a perfect copy, Is this guy actually a hero here? Trying to save humanity from a Yeah, no. Another note in the fortress written by Aggy says, I need to create the perfect doppelganger. Lana will help me, and when all And there it is. Thanks to Lana, he can kill her, while also having a perfect doppelganger that while also following his commands. He would have full control of the sawdad At this point, I was feeling It felt like we had a backstory, a motive, an That was until I discovered this It's so easy to manipulate those While I feel bad, I just remember that Lana, Okay, so I guess he isn't going to sacrifice Lana? At first, I thought of the vessel as a And given my theorizing in the indie horror scene, I wondered if she was going to become Maybe Aggy's daughter from the but it all just felt like too much of a stretch. Outside of the myth, there's been no mention of But then I remembered that It can also be referencing a ship Lana isn't going to contain Aggy's spirit. She's just the metaphorical ship that She's the one that opened the portal, And now she's going to empower him to escape. But how? Well, in one note, he says this. I consume the parts Lana gives me. My true form will be victorious. I just need more parts to fulfill me. We heard from Lana's diary that the missing Well, this is where they went. Aggy is using them to create his true On Lana's YouTube channel, a new video got sacrificing the last KOTORi member, Nelly. But instead of sacrificing her at a We only catch glimpses of it, but it's a very tall and misshapen humanoid body Aggy remarks to Lana, Was it not what you were expecting? No, Aggy, this is not what any of us were expecting when you said you I was expecting the most but instead you went full Vita Carnis on me. But while that reveal was confusing there was another reveal in this moment. Lana, out of nowhere, feels regret. Nelly, I'm so sorry. In the live stream, she tried But in this video, she's apologizing. Later on, Lana begins sacrificing Horizon, a group filled with real Roblox users. But if you look around the room during the stream, you can find some strange Another Caesar cipher. And it says, I'm so sorry. I didn't want to do this to the This feels like a big shift in her personality. Until now, she's been freely killing people. Anyone that rebelled against But now, Aggy requires innocent But suddenly, his hold on her began to fade. And then she released one final game. Sanagen's Gallery, which in As soon as you start the game, But the most important rule is Lana, the real Lana, is finally No more doppelgangers, no more lies. Just her. There are a lot of photos of Lana in this gallery. But the deeper you go, you can Lana, the one who tells the truth. The one you should trust. Lana, the real one. The one that isn't in the chair. Vessel, you'll meet her soon. Once innocent, pure, and serene. Most of these make sense. Lana is telling us the truth here. The Lana in the livestream chairs And we've talked about how Lana is going But what is this apple thing about? The quote about losing innocence matches The fruit that was eaten by Adam and Eve from that made them lose their innocence. However, we've spent a bit of time So I thought I'd have a look to see And oh boy, do they! Specifically, in the story The Trojan War. The story began because Paris of Troy had Hera, Athena, or Aphrodite. He ends up choosing Aphrodite, but she actually bribed him by offering him However, she was already married to Sending the two nations to war with each other. But the thing that forced Paris to choose was a golden apple that had to It became known as the Apple of Discord. And if you take a look at the you'll find one called the Judgment of Paris. The same name given to the For Lana to be described here as an apple, it could be referencing her sowing The real Lana having regrets and But you know what? I'm gonna take a bit of a If the apple is what caused Agamemnon to go to what if Lana, as the apple here, is somehow responsible for Aggy Aggy clearly doesn't care for Lana. He calls her a pawn in his game, someone he's okay with getting rid He even questions if she is perfect He doesn't want to use her, but he has to. And looking back through the Fortress map, you can find an apple on Aggy's He cannot help but telegraph his disdain It would also be quite a poetic narrative, having the person who is somehow responsible for getting him trapped there being It is a bit of a leap, I'll admit. But the leap from chapter 1 to 2 was also But there you have it, theorists. After four months of waiting, we finally The story of a girl fallen on hard and sought help from a cult She was swayed by the charms of its leader, who took her under his wing, using her to Sacrificing players to make his perfect Or at least, that's what I This game is still updating almost but as a little peek behind the theorist curtain, our scripts are usually written two to three So, when a game like this is updating so a theory that isn't gonna get debunked Hi, future Tom here. That There weren't as many updates as I was expecting, seems they're mainly waiting but there was a livestream where that we were wrong about her being the vessel. Turns out, the vessel is actually this fleshy room that you can find hidden in that the community has dubbed the Meat Room. I mean, we only thought that Lana she was literally referred But, okay, if this room is the Well, given all the references to the this vessel, must have to be related the Trojan Horse. Something that was able to sneak the This Meat Room is the vessel the fortress into the world of Dress to Impress, into his enemy's territory, able to take revenge and destroy But don't worry, Lana isn't totally useless now. In that weird Meat Room, a key has also been So, while she may not be the actual In Lana's latest YouTube video, she only now it's dark, red, covered I could see Lana or her doppelgangers One that will open up the portal and allow Aggy to escape his prison through and then he will be able to the world into that hellscape we see in the video. The only other thing I'll note is that Lana and is back to being fully gung-ho Given her past changes like this, I have another doppelganger on So, who knows, maybe Lana will turn But regardless, I think we can all I don't think anybody would have expected this So, I tip my hat to you, developers, keep it up. I, for one, am very excited But in the meantime, remember, A game theory! Thanks for watching. And if you've enjoyed uncovering the dark then you should definitely check out our Step through the portal, theorists.