-Forget the politics, We are at war. -So our news cycle is changing, if not daily, And there's so much and it's difficult to navigate -Over 2,980 deaths. -It was another rough day -They're going to do -Over 4,700 deaths... -...which means -So one of the things talk to some of the biggest &quot;Hey, what are these problems, and what are of what's happening -We have entered into that has required me, under to advance of a state of emergency in the state of California. -Now, one of the biggest all of these emergency measures, all of the data collection &quot;Well, what's happening have knock-on effects. And I think one of around civil liberties and these unforeseen is Edward Snowden. -This is the truth. You should decide whether -So today we're going to about his thoughts as well as, what does that mean Edward Snowden, -It's a pleasure to be with you. -Let's just jump into it. -Why does it seem like We're acting like COVID-19 and that this is surprise, surprise. You know, we had SARS, We've had these types and in fact, we knew that we were going yet we were not set up, or it seems like we were completely taken aback that this is happening now and is having, you know, when, if you talk to any they knew that -There is nothing more as a public health crisis a world where we are just in crowded and polluted cities than a pandemic. And yeah, every academic, who's looked at this And in fact, I can tell you firsthand because had been planning And yet when we needed it, and it has failed us And the thing that I find is that now the people to sacrifice the most who are in the most who have the least to give. We're constantly being told we're the richest country But when people start when rents become because there's no work for in New York right now, When our hospitals say you know, where is that's being used to surveil down to the tiniest toenail that actually save lives? -In South Korea, in at least flattening the government's been to people who have come that they know have COVID-19, which means they know they know who they're meeting, they know their They know how to get in touch -The Korea Centers for Disease provided by local -Taiwan is doing where, if they know they're going to put and if you leave, If you leave your -- your mobile phone You know, we look including welding and we seem to be and we're, you know, yet are our numbers So are autocratic regimes better at dealing with things like this -I don't think so. I mean, that China can do things Now, that doesn't mean that what these autocratic is actually more effective. There are really only two things One is that no one knows because we can only know the confirmed cases of people And once you start to layer in or I would argue, of policy structure, what you end up seeing being guided you begin to see things becoming political decisions. Now, this is not new. In fact, the Spanish flu did not actually originate It was actually spreading through the trenches, where everybody But the militaries of the day on what the press could report that could impact And so Spain, was publishing what they were actually And so we just presumed, that were telling the truth, Now we're a little further ahead But that doesn't erase the fact who see that there is to disguising or denying numbers It's happened before and it's -If you're looking which seems to have flattened, how much can we trust that -I don't think we can. Particularly, we see working to expel at precisely this moment where we need credible from this kind of region. And then there's all of these that say things like, you know, for burials have way beyond what you would expect And the fact that we cannot of the facts gives us reason And the reality which is is that even in places they're going to have They're going to have They're going to have the best medical analysis I think -- I was reading a paper this morning I think, that the Chan School at -- I think it was that said pumping the brakes is going to have to be -Which means we're at you know, second, third, And so all of these measures And what then happens to privacy rights, to democracy? I mean, what are the knock-on -I mean, this is really of this moment in history. What we see is everyone and so worried about today that we have about what tomorrow as a result of the decisions We've seen in countries and spreading also and of course, where it has begun as well, the tracking and monitoring of the whole through the movements And it is, I think, something that should because when we talk and I'm sure we will, they're saying they're using it This person gets sick. Who may they come so they can produce that you describe? On its face, it seems like There is, of course, And yet, this level this method of contact tracing on a pandemic scale. -You know, we're declaring, various states but these have sweeping powers. -What is being built is -So when we look at South Korea, when we look at China, when we look at, you know, countries like this, there's all of this data How are the government -- I get a text saying, &quot;Oh, you met Joe Blow. You should, you know, How are they getting that data? -[ Laughs ] I mean, that's really the one that should make everyone and, you know, There are a number of ways that of someone through their phone. There are these cell phone but there's also that you're connected to. And then what other wireless that you're not connected to -- this you can think of as your phone can hear. And so these wireless network and they're mapped out and then they know and neighbor Ted's Wi-fi all at the same time, you have to be within range It becomes a proxy for location. Now that we know can and are being tracked just by being turned on -- The phone companies have it Facebook probably has it. Google probably has it. And many, many other companies that run ad networks. What this really means in a France or a United States is they go, &quot;Well, look, we're aware of privacy concerns, is we're going to depersonalize we're going to 'anonymize' it, and we're not going to We're going to look at the flows Right? We're not looking We're looking at the aggregate The problem is, if you're not or 100 infections, but you're tracking contact-tracing quickly And more, the precision is either so rough that it is largely useless, if we're talking about the cellphone towers to very, very precise in which case this information when you're applying it cannot be anonymized And then there's well, where does all How is it controlled? Who's it being used -- I should have I should have control over it. But unfortunately, to a large degree, you don't. There is no basic privacy law We need to be able that the brakes are on the pandemic rather than on our society. -You know, it seems maybe the greatest question around civil liberties, around the right to privacy. Yet no one's asking We really don't hear And so now this is zeitgeist change to, because we have You know, we're declaring, various states of emergencies But these have sweeping powers. So we're sitting here in America &quot;Okay, what does this mean -When I think when any of us look we need to think about and sadly, these kind that are born out of crises have a perfect history I mean, down the board, whenever you look the funniest part about it is that the emergency It becomes normalized. When you talk about the Bush-era warrantless only part of it was shut down, and it's rolled over And we've performed things but the basic practices a stopgap emergency, which was in response was which was, of course, and the Patriot Act. And we are still today that we declared that we have not managed You know, we had, the rise because their counterbalance We saw authoritarianism begin to places we wouldn't expect, As authoritarianism spreads, as emergency laws as we sacrifice our rights, we also sacrifice to arrest this slide into a less Do you truly believe that when the 16th wave is a long-forgotten memory, that these capabilities that these data sets Will those capabilities to small-time criminality? Will they begin to be applied Will they begin to be applied for doing things Will they be used No matter how it is being used, what is being built is And you might trust you might trust You might go, &quot;You know, I don't But someone else will have Some other country In your country, will have control and someone will abuse it. Now, could China use it for Yes. And what happens And I believe they already have. You know, they're they're in China. And these practices, when they don't get when they don't face sanction, this will become normalized And we'll face them in Russia. We'll face them in Iran. And then we'll face them we'll face them in Hungary, we'll face them We will face them because we will face them -This is a pivotal moment. -It is. talking about this? -Because we're scared. -We've talked about, this is, And until there's there's going to be more waves. There's going to be I mean, this is just the way So if there's going to be more more waves of other pandemics then theoretically there more information collected, This is the &quot;new normal.&quot; This is just -- it's not This is just it. -It is. talking about this? -Because we're scared. If we work together, protect ourselves, our hospitals, if we think about together internationally as our weeds peak in different we cooperate, to think not about of our overcrowded which is this virus that has When you look at when we have and it very quickly morphed and then very quickly you see all the governments And it's interesting that you go not to the public, but to businesses, loans to the groups that actually created that were exacerbated But we need to remember but the decisions that we make will last. We will have to live with them and our children will have All of our posterity will. It's not just about America. It's about everywhere. Because these systems, they're going to make decisions to determine who gets a job, who gets a home, -So we seem to be heading into this uncharted territory. And I wanted to ask you, take some time. What should we be What should we be -One of the things this sensation that this is, you know, it couldn't have been prevented, it couldn't have been imagined this global pandemic. When you think about you know, They spend ten hours away from their family, And by the end of the day, And now all of us collectively has been forced into a global which is an extraordinarily We are at one of that will be in our lifetimes and so overextended so clearly out of its league to make not reformative changes, but revolutionary changes, that we can actually change that we can actually change that controls the way that we are the way that we're being Because these systems, will not simply be used They're going to make decisions to determine who gets a job, who gets a loan, and who does not. And we today are being asked in a moment &quot;What do we want And if we don't make it will be made for us. -Edward Snowden, -Thanks so much, Shane.