At the national level, the defined as households with between $53,740 and But middle class Americans Pensacola, Florida, says unaffordable. Financially, things have for me. I don't know how, somehow manage to get by This past month, I was left account. And that's it. As of June 2024, 65% of they were struggling their situation to improve It's a part of the income lot of pain in the wake of something that just It was something that was level. You know, people bills. People felt it at In their own neighborhoods have their own expectations they can go, where they can and to the degree that pressures on an individual quite a bit of an alarm. 75% of middle income actively cutting back on 73% finding it difficult to I have had to reduce all I have gotten one haircut control and that's it. That's all that I can We can do so much better. To all of you watching, we that's affordable again. There's a strong role for prices of all these housing to child care to I think there's a lot of programs that help the more. So how has the middle class for Americans? Housing is always going to bite of a household's I think that's probably a why people are feeling that I am currently renting, and is probably about 65% of my should be the other way The median rent for middle 18%, to $1,300 per 2022. We've just seen this intense of rent, and that filters buying a house. Existing home prices hit a existing home selling at a According to the most facing a shortage of 4.5 In 2022, families in the US but only 1.4 million meet the demand. We've got lots of families You know, people leave parents house, they want to And we just haven't seen If you don't build more becomes more expensive. And that's exactly what's coastal cities, and cities across the United very unaffordable to buy a What it amounts to are state really operated over the restrict housing supply. You know, it's the old story homes, in desirable back against efforts to neighborhoods. They they complain about Experts say policy tackling the affordability There's an opportunity today government interacts with We already see this in the United States. It's not a purely There is a government role, and also just in terms of organize policies. We don't need to build suburbs, but we do need to city center, allow for at least some amount of allows more people to live And that brings down rents if that's going to not be owners. Add to that, we see child exploded over the years. In some parts of the paying upwards of $25,000 The cost of child care has rate of inflation in the between 1990 and 2024. We expect these families to labor market, but they need We have a system in the U.S. that is just so much you're very, very poor and can get I'm very fortunate that what not require me to have I would basically be making hour over the summer if I childcare for three It doesn't make sense. In 2023, 67% of parents 20% of their annual income said they spent 10% or more child care. We see here is a really a a bit of disarray. We have shortages in We have childcare workers underpaid, which then You sometimes have states or regulations that just don't that make onerous staff ratios, or certain you can have a childcare And so again, here there is this labor market and this We saw some of this effort pandemic. In 2021, the a historic expansion in the Expanded not just in its number of families it the middle class. Like in previous years has just program. This one really phasing out until $100,000 families. That was a one year You've had policymakers 2021 expanded child tax faced resistance in the Health care is another major class lifestyle American families. In 2021, about 12.4 million unpaid medical bills, the income groups. Health care expenses weigh don't have health insurance My children do, but I Every time I sit down to go plan, that would make because what I can afford deductible, but I'm giving It's pretty well known by compare the US to almost we spend a ton more on get better health outcomes. The US spends about $12,742 the highest cost per capita OECD countries. However, the country still measures like life mortality when compared to Everything costs more. Doctors cost more. Drugs cost more. Devices cost more. And that, to me, just seems market power in the And so you've got that unambiguously have That's what patents are. And unlike other countries some kind of monopsony companies to sort of power, we don't do that Besides drugs, you've got sort of hospitals and A study by Harvard hospital prices in markets higher in areas with four And research from UCLA protection increased billion across a sample of In response to these Department launched a task specifically addressing the health-care sector. You want to leverage the health care, you know, to countervail. But then you say if you're going to buy a given area and start going to let you do that. regulate or we're going to Prices are also rising for than the big three. The utilities that are just It's like every month. It's like my usage is down Obviously groceries are It hurts. It really does children no, when I have to can't go to this activity extra $120 to spare this As a mother, that's kind of Rising prices have been a 2024 election. For Harris and Trump, class, speaking directly to middle class or rescuing promises that in some way why they are the best the US economy. I was raised as a middle the only person on this about lifting up the middle America. She wants to build 3 million her potential supply of housing, and She has pledged to crack other corporate pricing the reason for high prices. For Harris, a lot of comes down to putting more wallet. I have a plan. $6,000 for young families child's life. $25,000 down time home buyers. For Trump, he's painting his change campaign. People are sick of the wants to be the person to pain that he sees as the Biden-Harris I had no inflation, They had the highest history of our country. For him, lowering prices and of growing the economy as a A lot of his proposals, said they could threaten to short term, things like his increase producer costs for then translate to higher We're doing tariffs on other are going to finally, after all that we've done for the He says, look at the long Once we grow the economy in going to trickle down and costs or pain that you feel implementation of some of The middle class is really a experience that many people It really does connote a just for that family, but really future generations. I think government policy thinking about the class today, and it would Americans had a feel for with and really affect the families.