A beautiful feeling, the sound of the sea and the vastness. They still exist, the quiet bays. But more and more beaches in Portugal are becoming crowded. The number of holidaymakers has doubled in the last 15 years. This is an immensely important source of income for the country. More than 1 million Portuguese live from tourism. We have to stay in business and keep our guests happy. Up to now this has always included a pool. But Portugal is increasingly suffering from drought. Hotels have to save water, but tourists aren't doing everything. A swimming pool is irreplaceable if you enjoy being in the water. Is it possible to steer tourism in a different direction without endangering an entire industry before it is too late? If the water runs out, then it runs out for everyone. Unfortunately, we will probably experience that soon. Subtitle: WDR mediagroup GmbH on behalf of WDR Lisbon, Portugal's capital. The little trams are your secret landmark, perfect for a city tour or a post on Instagram. The platform has brought a huge boom to the city of 7 hills . Old houses and narrow streets, the perfect backdrop. In the middle of Alfama, the oldest district of Lisbon, we meet Rafaela and Jessica from Great Britain. There are a lot of young people here. It seems to be the No. 1 goal this year. Many of my friends at home have also been here. I saw a lot on Instagram, that's why I came here. It's colorful and cheerful, really good. Of course, Lisbon's famous tarts, the Pasteis de Nata, cannot be missed on social media . The fact that Rafaela and Jessica feel so at home here also has to do with their accommodation. We live in a small Airbnb. It's nice, in a really good location. Really central. We are very happy with it. The special Lisbon feeling that many tourists are looking for has a downside. We meet Maria de Lurdes Pinheiro. For many years she sat on the municipal council of Alfama, the district most popular with tourists. On a walk through the district she shows us the many &quot;AL&quot; signs, references to tourist apartments. There are AL apartments everywhere on this street. There are entire buildings just for vacation rentals. The tram, the main means of transport here, is also full of holidaymakers. Explore the city like a local. But they hardly come in anymore. Lurdes always hears how much tourism puts a strain on the residents here. Keep a stiff upper lip. Hold on. Many have the impression that their neighborhood is being increasingly taken away from them. I'm snappy, that's just how I am. Nobody can get me out of here. This is a land of theft. We learn from Lurdes that tourists are putting a strain on the housing market and the transport system. Meanwhile, their water consumption is also becoming problematic. Because water is becoming significantly scarcer due to climate change. There has been an exceptional amount of rain this spring. That's why the fountains don't have to be turned off this year. But the more than 5 million tourists who come to Lisbon every year are increasingly overwhelming the city's water supply. A huge retention basin is therefore being built at the harbor. When it rains, water should be stored here. This will cost over 200 million euros and should be completed in 2030. Is that enough in a city that is so popular and attracts so many visitors? If you want to enjoy the beauty of Lisbon in peace, you have to get up early. Andrea and Karen came here at 7 a.m. for the golden light of the city . You're lucky, you're still alone on the popular terraces in Alfama. It's an incredibly beautiful city. Right on the water, absolutely beautiful houses, absolutely beautiful colors, the sky. I'm here for the first time and it impressed me straight away yesterday. That everything is bathed in orange, but at night there is still life on the streets. Actually, it's totally alive. I don't think there is a moment here that isn't beautiful. But then suddenly the idyll is over. A cruise ship arrives. Lisbon is popular and famous as a cruise port. The ships dock directly below the city. Passengers enjoy a wonderful view. Not him, Benhur Saldanha. He has a nice little apartment with a view of the water. But the view from the balcony is often spoiled. He shows us videos that his neighbors filmed on their cell phones. Constant noise and thick smog. More than 300 cruise ships visit Lisbon every year. You have the engine on 24 hours a day, from docking to casting off. The largest cruise ship I have seen had 3 smokestacks. With black exhaust gases, 3 days in a row. Because of this air pollution, Lisbon is considered the sixth dirtiest port in Europe. The exhaust gases go directly into the city from here. The reason: In Lisbon it is not technically possible to supply the ships with electricity from land. But they also want to be supplied with water. Each passenger uses around 200 liters per day. Modern ships can extract some of this from salt water. In addition, water is pumped below deck if necessary in the ports of call. Each cruise ship brings several thousand people. Most of them are looking forward to their shore leave. Their destination is also the romantic viewing terraces in Alfama. You look at a beautiful city that is now reaching its limits in popularity. There is nothing left here of the peace of the morning. 1/2 hour from Lisbon we take the ferry to Comporta. Here we will experience first-hand the effects that water scarcity is already having today. The Comporta Peninsula attracts visitors with 60 km of pristine coastline. The last wild beach in Portugal. The entire region was still a nature reserve until a few years ago. But then came exemptions for holiday resorts. Luxury lodges have been built here, well hidden in the pine forests. Almost everyone has a pool, and that has consequences. We meet Maria Teresa Santos and Margarida Dias. They show us a lake that is no longer a lake. Margarida swam here in 2018, then it dried out. We would be under water here. I was here with my dog at the time. I was swimming and he was just happy in the water. There was a small jetty here with canoes and all the trimmings. People were just in the lagoon with their stand-up paddleboards and canoes. So a little different than today. Local recreation in an area the size of several football fields, that's how big the lake was. None of it is left because more and more groundwater is being pumped out. Especially from the luxury resorts. That's what they both tell us. The groundwater level is falling very quickly. The scale of development that is taking place here at the moment is completely unsustainable. The next hotel resort is being built 10 minutes away by car, for 500 million euros. George Clooney and Madonna have also invested. Even a golf course with deep greens is being built in one of the driest regions of Portugal. This makes me angry and sad. How can you destroy nature like that? People are welcome to play golf in England where there is water, but not here. Because that's what happens when you play golf here, we don't have any water in the lagoon anymore. In the immediate vicinity of the dry lake: luxury tourism. Behind this gate is the Sublime Resort. Everything behind it is usually top secret. Manager Miguel Plantier takes us on a short tour of the site. But we shouldn't address guests. We usually deal with customers who come from large cities and metropolises in Europe. They are looking for this kind of decelerated life and more contact with nature, with the animals and all the plants we have here. The resort's 22 villas are hidden between the trees. There is no golf course. Miguel says that the water issue was taken into consideration during the planning. The water used in the showers and swimming pools is treated in a plant so that it can be used to irrigate the plants. Miguel doesn't show us the resort's classic pools. Our tour ends at the biopool, where plants ensure clean water. 9 accommodations share this eco-pool. Where does the water come from? That's not quite as sustainable, Miguel admits when asked. There are a few wells on the property. Basically we need to pump up this water for the pool. We can store some of the rainwater in tanks, which we then use to fill the swimming pools. But it's not just rainwater? No, it doesn't rain enough in this region. In an ideal world we would like to have something that is completely sustainable, self-sustaining. We are striving to reach this point. In luxury tourism, guests expect a certain level of amenities. We try to give it to them, but with as little impact as possible. We discover what a vacation at the Sublime Resort can look like on Instagram. Influencers took their pool party online. A dream holiday in one of the water-scarce regions of Portugal. Miguel doesn't see any reason to forego this type of tourism here . That would only be possible in Switzerland. I mean, the only countries in Europe that don't have problems with water are probably the Alpine countries. The sublime on the Comporta peninsula is even expected to grow. Across the street, the operators have secured 51 hectares of land for 43 new villas and many pools. Does tourism use too much water here? On their way back from the dry lake, Margarida and Maria Teresa discover a luxury holiday home with garden irrigation. This is a region where anyone with a small garden grew their own food to support themselves. Many people no longer have enough water for this. They also have no money to pay for water to irrigate their garden. So they stopped gardening and now have to buy everything. This is how theft happens because the people who used to have water no longer have it. Now it is used for other purposes. Those who benefit from this are the tourists. They waste it, they even steal it. Tourists don't see how much the locals miss this water . The next morning we visit Margarida at her family's farm nearby. They grow wheat and vegetables here. And they have cork trees. They are peeled about every 8 years. The large tree in the middle was already planted by their ancestors. Here we have the cork oak that we call the &quot;Grandma Tree&quot;. We believe it is around 300 years old. It is one of the oldest cork oaks in the country. A real natural monument that could, however, be in danger. Margarida is worried about how long the family's centuries-old cork industry can continue to function here in times of scarce water. That's something that doesn't happen that often anymore. We are struggling more and more with the lack of rain and the lack of water in the soil affecting the trees. Since this has been going on for years, they are starting to die. We are currently losing a lot of trees in our inventory. Comporta is still kilometers of completely untouched dream beaches. With many hectares of jungle behind the dunes. How will this oasis change if luxury tourism continues to spread here? We are heading south, to the Algarve. It quickly becomes significantly drier. The Algarve is famous for its sandy beaches surrounded by extraordinary rock formations. Anyone who comes here is looking for a classic beach holiday. Coastal towns like Lagos are also characterized by massive hotel buildings. More than 1 million tourists come every year, with just 24,000 inhabitants. The beach showers in the region have already had to be turned off. Water scarcity is a real challenge. The regional government of the Algarve has therefore obliged hotels to save 15% water this year . Also the Cascade Wellness Resort on the edge of Lagos. Here, however, tourists should notice as little as possible about the lack of water. Hotel manager Silvana Pombo is working to gradually replace the palm trees on the property with native species. This is one of the species found in the Algarve that requires very little water to survive. And it's a beautiful tree. It is one of the species that we want to preserve and develop in our resort. Watering less means using less water. The lawn around the pool will continue to be watered daily. Silvana Pombo doesn't want to expect too much from her guests. Some parts of the complex should remain nice and green. Tourists love lawn. Therefore we will proceed step by step. We have to reduce the grass areas, we don't want to get rid of them completely. They are important because people like them. But we can reduce them. 15% less water consumption, the consequences of this regional government requirement can already be clearly seen in the hotel. It turns brown just a few meters away from the pool. Not good, of course it's not nice. Nobody likes gardens like that, especially when you see things dying, right? But here too, if we think about the future and decide on something better, then I think everyone can help. The hotel's driving range was hit particularly hard. There has been no watering here for weeks due to the water shortage. The hotel gave up on him. One less offer for tourists. David has been coming here for years, including to play golf. Before it wasn't a problem at all. There was a lot of irrigation, a lot of water used to keep everything very green and also to attract tourists. The grass felt great to play on. And now a lot of dry grass. It doesn't play as well and the tourists get upset too. But I think these are measures that have to be implemented consistently. The Cascade Wellness Resort has already saved a lot of water. But the management doesn't want to make any compromises at the pool. And this despite the fact that directly below the hotel there is a sandy beach like something out of a travel brochure. Not too crowded, wonderfully clear, clean water. However, most guests still obviously value the hotel pool, including David. It's really practical to do the laps here in the morning. It doesn't always have to be, but it's part of the holiday feeling. It would be a shame if it wasn't included, yes. Now you have the sea right next to you. Yes, that's true too. It's also a good compensation. But a swimming pool is actually irreplaceable if you like being in the water. David is one of the few who regularly uses the pool for sports sessions. Every morning before breakfast. If you hang out a bit like you are right now, is that more pleasant? Yes, it helps too. Hotels like the Cascade Resort are trying to slowly acclimate tourists to the new water shortage. Meanwhile, holiday homes are often not checked at all. Here the lawn is lush green and the pool is deep blue. We need both. We first go into the sea and then into the pool again. We are in Albufeira. Here too there are hotels with large pools right on the beach. The British and Dutch especially like to come here. Andre Raimundo works here as a tour guide. He tries to lure tourists away from the beach and into the hinterland with his offers . The Alte waterfall has been an integral part of his tour for years. Andre shows us how beautiful it can be there. Last year in February the waterfall was full of water. We shot a commercial there. It was full of water and beautiful. Today the waterfall looks like this. The lime residue clearly shows that a lot more water once flowed here. It's not a pretty sight for Andre. 7 years ago there was twice as much water here, even in summer. We could not have stood in this position as we do now. The water went over these rocks here and then flowed down the valley. This is what the waterfall looked like back then. There was a deafening rush of water and the entire pool was filled with water. But then came the great drought. Andre no longer wants to present the waterfall to his customers. There is no longer enough water to show the tourists. Of course more would be much better. When I started the tours in 2017/18, there was enough water all year round. Andre now employs 6 people in his office in the center of Albufeira. A lot of responsibility. Since the water shortage, his tours have become increasingly less attended. Yes, that's hard. It's not a big problem yet, but I could do much better business and sell more tours if there was more water. His tours start from here. He had to think of alternatives for his guests. A few kilometers away from the waterfall there is still enough water. It's 34deg here today. The cold, dammed water of a small mountain stream is just the thing. It's super good, there are lots of trees, I love it. The water is cold, but that's good. It's really charming here. Here tourists hardly notice the lack of water. So for the moment everything is somewhat okay for Andre. But he's worried. Orange farms were created around the waterfall. Every single tree needs to be watered. The tree needs so much water. I'm not sure how much of an impact this will have on the waterfall, but there is certainly an impact. Is agriculture undermining tourism? In the hinterland of the Algarve we discover many greenhouses in which fruits such as strawberries and blueberries, which are not made for the dry climate, are grown. Greenhouses to the horizon. Agriculture has recently grown by around 2% per year. More and more groundwater has to be pumped up in order to have enough water for the irrigation ditches between the plantations. On Margarida's family's farm in Comporta, agriculture is still practiced in more traditional forms. But the groundwater level is falling since new fruits have been grown on a large scale in the neighborhood. They grow avocados, berries, oranges and clementines. This is intensive agriculture that requires millions of liters of water per year. What's happening just doesn't make sense anymore. We have less water, but the need for irrigation is reaching new, absurd levels. And the need for water is increasing for everyone in this area, including the resorts and the pools. It's simply a question of where the limit is and when it stops. Portugal urgently needs new water sources. For tourism and agriculture, both of which continue to grow. The solution could also be in the air. A few minutes by car from Coimbra in the north of Portugal we find ourselves in thick fog. And that's a good thing, the fog brought us here. We meet Andre Mota from the Life Nieblas project. He shows us how he gets water from the air, almost all by itself. He shows us his fog catchers on the side of a hill. The water particles in the air that are transported by the wind are caught in this net, which consists of several layers. When a droplet forms that is large enough to run down the net, it falls onto the tray and is picked up by this pipe, which collects all the fog water and directs it into the water tank below. The system works without energy input. Once it's up and running, it doesn't need any workers. 50 m down the slope, Andre proudly shows us the tank in which the water collects and is distributed from there. Now it's filled. Afterwards we will use the water to water our plants. The tank feeds 350 trees that Andre planted here. The water is fed into paper containers where it seeps away. In the last 2 years these trees have grown 25 cm. Oak trees, typical of Portugal. They will even protect against fire later. If we can make this place more resilient to fire with trees that are more resistant to fire, we have a chance of preventing fires or making them easier to fight. Forest fires are also an issue that is becoming more and more pressing due to increasing drought. We will come across it later on our journey. The small oaks will one day form a dense forest on the currently bare slopes. The fog catcher system is currently only a small pilot project. But one that gives hope. I have already had many visitors from other parts of Portugal, such as the Algarve, who wanted to see the installation. To see how it works so they can replicate the solution in their regions. Andre Mota is sure that his fog catchers will play an important role in the future. But that won't be enough to satisfy the immense thirst of the tourism industry . We drive to the west coast of the Algarve. Here tourism is even more original, without large club hotels with pools. How can this work? We are on Odeceixe beach, a real paradise for surfers. But sandcastle builders and people who have dug in also feel very comfortable here. Gudrun and Isabelle have just returned from a day trip inland. Now it's time to switch off. A beautiful feeling, the sound of the sea and the vastness. And nice and warm. Hearing the waves feels good. Do you even miss a hotel pool? - No. We've never looked for that before. Pool has never been important to us on our vacations. We never felt comfortable at a pool either. It's nicer to be by the sea. It is a natural sea air. In addition to the sea breeze, the two of them especially enjoy the view of the surfers. Most are still practicing. Look, she's standing. - Ah yes, and not anymore. It looks supposedly easy from the outside, but once you're inside it's really difficult. But then Mattheo sets off into the waves with a friend. The Austrian has been surfing for almost 10 years. You can see that at first glance. Did you see that one over there? - Yes. He could catch a good wave. * Music * After a good hour, Mattheo needs a break. On average, surfing tourists spend 2 to 4 hours in the sea per day. Do you even need a pool? I'm in the sea so much that I don't need the extra pool. Or also that I enjoy sea water more than chlorinated water. But there are a lot of people here who like to jump into the pool in the summer, in the middle of summer, to get away from the sea or something like that. But for me personally the sea is enough. Do you worry about the lack of water when you go to Portugal? - Probably not the first time. But after spending a few weeks, you notice that it is too dry in summer. So are surfers the better tourists? In any case, they offer the best entertainment for the rest of the beach. You don't need television anymore. Gudrun and Isabelle take us to their accommodation. You have chosen the Vida Pura resort. About 10 km from the beach in the hinterland. But with an impressive view from the balcony. Pure relaxation. - Holiday feeling. Holiday feeling, arrive. We drink to our husband, to her father, who is at home, because this is our wife's holiday. Salutes. On our vacation, which we always take once a year, no matter where. The Vida Pura resort does not have a classic swimming pool. Robin Tenge wants it that way. He founded this facility 15 years ago. Because he relies primarily on surfing tourists, he hardly has any problem communicating his water-saving model. If there were more nature tourism, surf tourism, ecotourism in Portugal, more people would come with a different mentality. They pay attention to nature because they are more connected to it. You can probably just convince them to take shorter showers or be more conscious on their own. In contrast to the mass tourism on the beaches that we all know, with private beaches, umbrella after umbrella and high-rise buildings. I think these people are just not that aware. Houses without a pool, and the water used is completely recycled. The Dutchman is particularly proud of this. The wastewater that comes from the buildings, after passing through a biological filter, is directed into this reed bed, which is of course very green, even in this dry summer. When the water comes out, it is already 98% organically cleaner than when it came in. We then use this water for agriculture. So every drop we take flows back into the ground. The withered grass on the site clearly shows how dry it is here at the beginning of July. But holidaymakers in Vida Pura don't have to do without a pool entirely. Robin has created a pond at the end of the site. With water lilies and frogs and an area for swimming. Do you see those green lines underwater? These are floating walls that separate the part in which we swim from the plant filter. On the other side of the wall are all kinds of plants that grow naturally in river systems. No filters, no chlorine, and the water comes from a small river that flows across the property. So everything is OK? Not entirely, water is lost here too. On a windy, warm day we lose 3,000 liters per day. Is that sustainable? I think so, otherwise the river flows into the sea and the water is not used. In the meantime, Isabelle received a visit from her new friend. The one-eyed cat is an integral part of the resort. We immediately became friends. I'm always happy then. That's why I choose to vacation in nature because I know that animals are there. I choose this consciously. Conscious vacation instead of a pool hotel. So far this is the exception. But there are also other alternative tourism options away from the coast . The mountain village of Gondramaz is one of 27 &quot;Schist&quot; villages, built in the traditional natural stone style. As an architecture student, Margarida Amaral fell in love with the village with its old walls. At that time, many of the village's houses were dilapidated, but little by little she bought 7 of the 70 houses, renovated them and converted them into hotels. Our guests love the houses and the landscape. This is my baby, these little houses here, this is my life project. Traditional on the outside, everything inside is ultra-modern. Here you have the living room and the kitchen. And you have beautiful scenery, the mountains and the pool. Anyone who comes to Gondramaz is guaranteed to have a good view. The slopes in the north of Portugal are significantly greener than in the south. And the tourists live next door to the old villagers. Joao and Patricia came from England with their little son especially for this reason. It's very peaceful, very quiet. And you still have some contact with the locals who would otherwise leave such villages. You don't see this anywhere else because there is no investment. Margarida Amaral brought tourism to Gondramaz. In the village itself, the elders were initially skeptical. Dona Carminda has lived in the village for over 70 years and grew up here. There used to be no television. So they met. We met at the front door, talked and then went to sleep. Time has stood still a little for her. She thinks the new visitors are nice, but to this day she can't really do much with them. You don't do anything bad to anyone. We like them. They say good morning, good afternoon. What do you talk to the tourists about? Do you ask her anything? Yes, but we don't understand them. Ah, okay. Ciao. - Ciao. Dona Carminda has made friends with the new development. Thanks to the income from tourism, the village, together with a neighboring community , can finance 2 workers who protect the village from forest fires. They are a big danger here. We're going to cut firebreaks now. If there is a fire, it will only come to one side of the aisle and will not come across to the other side. In 2017, Portugal experienced the worst forest fires in decades. Dozens of villages and towns caught fire. But not Gondramaz. And that is also due to the work of Jose and Paulo. The two have to keep an eye on the entire forest. Today they are cutting down eucalyptus trees, as they often do. Because they are particularly problematic. During a fire, the glowing eucalyptus leaves are blown into the village by the wind, fall to the ground, onto the roofs, and then we have the next fire. They are only allowed to fell eucalyptus that has grown wild. The tree is already being cultivated two slopes away. Because he has a strong lobby, the eucalyptus industry. She introduced the tree as a basis for paper production because eucalyptus grows quickly. Such a planting is ready for harvest every 8 years. The catch is that the tree extracts more water from the ground than any native tree. Nevertheless, the eucalyptus industry actually wants to expand the area under cultivation. Because that would help avoid plastic. Not a word about the need for water or the risk of fire. Jose Bernardo has little interest in eucalyptus. If I could decide, I would cut down everything here. In 2017, Gondramaz just escaped again. After that, tourism here dropped significantly. The fear of forest fires was great. Margarida Amaral is pleased that more and more people are now overcoming their fears. Many people were caught in the fire and were unable to escape. There were around 60 dead. We try to remember that because we know that being trapped by fire and having no way to escape can be problematic. To be honest, it's not something that's constantly in the back of your mind. Margarida Amaral thinks about it more often. People don't just come here for the houses, they come for the scenery. A house can be rebuilt in a year, but the forests, the trees take 50 years or more, 100 years. In Gondramaz they found a way to protect themselves. So far. But it is getting drier and hotter in Portugal. The eucalyptus is also continuing to spread. Every year the challenge for emergency services to protect residents and tourists becomes greater. Rui Rosinha works as a firefighter north of Lisbon fought against the flames. A mission that he barely survived. Since then he has been disabled. He takes us to the meeting center of the &quot;Association of Forest Fire Victims in Pedrogao Grande&quot;. There is a memorial plaque here for his comrades who did not survive the mission. There are many. *Music* To this day I haven't processed it. I'll probably never process it. I suffered burns just like many others. I am damaged, an injured person. That's how it is for many people. You can't imagine what it's like to lose 3, 4, 5 family members. We are all victims, everyone who was there. Everyone who lives in the region is a victim. The swimming pool of Castanheira de Pera is 12 minutes away by car. Under normal circumstances, an absolute negative example of water waste. But during the big fire in 2017, the XXL pool was a blessing. When the whole place was engulfed by fire, many people fled into the water in the swimming pool. This is why this is still a special place for Rui today. He has seen the swimming pool differently since the fire. The chaos was enormous because the fire was so huge. A gigantic inferno. The people in this swimming pool became a kind of community of fate. The people who work here did everything they could to get her through the night. They sheltered them in the pool here until the next day. *Music* Forest fires also attacked the Algarve resort of Vida Pura last year . A fire so big that it could even be seen from the beach in Odeceixe. Robin shows us the damage that he documented with his camera. You see, everything is charred black. This is the guest house, the rooms, it's quite shocking to see them again. I haven't watched it since the fire, to be honest. I still get goosebumps. There have also been forest fires in Portugal before. But since it is getting drier and hotter, the destruction is also increasing. At the Vida Pura resort, 60% of the facility burned down. I was a bit naive because I had built wooden decks everywhere. For me, wood was about organic and rustic feelings. But the sheer heat of this kite passing by simply caused spontaneous combustion. It didn't even have to be near the fire. And there was a kind of barbecue, a rain of small glowing coals. Anyone who has wood around their houses is doomed to burn down, unfortunately. The construction work is still in full swing. Meanwhile, the owners of the slopes opposite have planted eucalyptus again. It was exactly this type of tree that really started the fire back then. How can Robin stand this? The eucalyptus industry is a difficult topic because of course it generates 2 or 3% of the gross national product. Try to use ecological arguments against them, impossible. We have always been very anti-paper industry and anti-Navigator. This is the biggest company, they own everything over there. But I had to change my perspective a little. Because if you can't beat them, it's better to join them. They have their own helicopters, their own firefighters. Despite the risk of fire and the climate crisis, Robin would like to continue to welcome tourists here. And on her farm, Margarida hopes that agriculture and tourism will find ways to use the scarce resource of water responsibly in time . When the water runs out, it runs out for everyone. And that will probably happen very soon unfortunately. Their wish: everyone, residents and tourists, should be able to continue to experience Portugal as beautifully as it always has been. Copyright WDR 2024