- We are very lucky to the second some cool on the field of play during a game, we can pull up video of that moment, on our phones, or computers, and we can watch the just as it was the first time it happened. Photos are different. While they're still in in terms of being a faithful the fact that a photo is so atomic and so indivisible in its nature can completely change Freezing an event down tells a different story. It's a little bit like an MRI slice,=. Perfect for diagnosis and but with a different context, it becomes its own work of art. And for our work of art today, this is the MRI slice I have chosen for Saquon Barkley's insane, how to describe, backwards hurdle? I don't know if you saw this when it happened- - During the game? - If you were to see this photo without knowing what happened, you might think either or that he was, like, - Right. the phenomenon of, you and you're like, &quot;There's no I look cool!&quot; - Or what was even happening - [Ryan] Here? - Yeah, no you definitely- - You totally do, dude, cool, dude. you look amazing. I picked this photo, a couple reasons. One, yes, it's very difficult to tell out of the context of the video, and the things that are it's hard to tell exactly But two, this photo on its Like I think if you- - Looked at this, you would go, &quot;Wow, he's just straight The context that you're is the fact that his whole ass is the leading point of his body here and he is full on going backwards. And you would not know that, had you not seen the play - If somebody saw this photo how long would it take them to pick up on the one primary context clue that like not everything - And here's the thing is, I think there's really only that could possibly tip you off that he's, that things are not as they are, and it's the fact that Jarrian Jones is facing the wrong way, to be running in the same direction. - [Seth and Will] Right. - Downfield, for Saquon Barkley to be lurching over Jarrian Jones. - Yeah, you could read this as, it's a forward hurdle - The worst defender ever. - A guy who is very clearly confused as to what team he is on. - Oh clueless Jones, yeah. - Switch sides halfway through a play- but great in the locker room - He gets, he just sees and he goes, &quot;Oh, shit&quot; and running the same way. that guy. I saw Saquon was going that way, and so I thought that out free snacks. So I turned- to the locker room, that's all I was. - He's going so fast, I - There must be something as horrible, horribly going wrong. that way. really forensic with some chunks of grass. there's some grass- in the wakes of the action. I did not even notice that - The only comparison my brain can make for this photo is it's of a gazelle trying to evade lions. Unless I jump in some direction - Like, he invented this You don't practice. like Air Jordan, this is not like a thing that he's known for. - Okay, I assumed as much. to Will's point, pure instinct. And I think he talked He knew Jones was going momentum had him already kind of turning and all he knew was And then his body just kind I don't think he anticipated the perfect clamshell - The fact it was Saquon, I think adds something to the mystique. - It's like one more on the pile. - But if you then invert it Joe Flacco doing this. Oh my... like call the season there, give him every award- football, yeah yeah yeah. That is, if he survived guarantee he would. - What if someone failed like subtract four inches and you the helmet- the crown of helmet- - Right into your coccyx there, sure. - Or the coccyx, sure. (Seth and Ryan laugh) - I would love one time for my own moment of like creative stylish - Oh, sure. being like, &quot;I'm gonna do something a little fancy just to see how it goes&quot;- - Oh, when you wore shorts? - We all, can we- I have- before we talk about that? of that too, Chris, if - There are just so many chains. (Seth and Ryan laugh) - For real though, last summer, sometimes if I'm close when I'm walking my dog, and I tie it up in the bag, I 'cause I'm like, then I around with me, we'll keep walking. So Trudy pooped across the street and I was like, you know what? And this happened all very quickly. &quot;I'm gonna chuck this bag into the driveway.&quot; - &quot;I don't know why, but I'm gonna do it.&quot; - How'd it work? of doing it, I realized A, and B, that the bag of dog shit was going to end up directly which it did. - But at the same time, your brain is making other calculations that ultimately result On the flip side, there's no hood of a car for Saquon to land on if - No yeah, he's on TV and there's a helmet headed for his anus. - It's interesting hearing of this because your is a really cool feat of but it makes sense because running towards another guy They go low, guy with the ball has enough time, spatial &quot;I'm gonna try jumping over him.&quot; If it works, it's really, really sick. If it doesn't work, that's the con of trying to jump over somebody. to make a play- Seeing this was like, maybe is when Tony Romo evaded a J.J. Watt sack where J.J. Watt was screaming and Romo just like did a spin move that I think they both of just like, don't - Yeah, what sense are - 'Cause like, I was gonna make the joke that like Jones didn't see this coming. Literally, Saquon also His back's to the situation. (laughs) - Yeah, that's the important thing too. It's not like what you described where he had like room to &quot;I'm gonna try something and then turned and then did this. He's probably like two or And like I said before, sort of carrying him So when he does finally get here, like I said in that interview his only thought is &quot;up&quot;. - Yeah, this is like a- - This is like a salmon evading &quot;I only have so much control - Right, and you sort as I'm sure Saquon Barkley did, even for as athletic and with what your body can in like a split second decision. - Well, what his body can do. (laughs) - I can do that. - I try this and I'm Bill (Seth and Ryan chuckle) about other sports photos where the moment itself is incredible. But then the one photo is almost like you're watching I thought a lot about the Olympic surfer from the Olympics this - Oh, right. - Who was like flying off of his board, but also like waving to someone like this and is like perfectly straight. Great run on the waves and then that just get his, like, from time is like this - So that's almost the inverse of this. - The photo makes him look- but the photo makes it look more surreal. - Very nonchalant, yes, and surreal. - Whereas in this case, the photo is almost underselling - Along that line too, I also LeBron James alley-oop making the pose and LeBron's like not even really- on TV that that had happened quite as... - Right. There's also a lot of good NBA moments of a guy getting hit or accidentally kicked in the face when a guy's trying to that like, it all happens of a basketball game that even on replay, you can't quite get how unlikely it is. That is part of this, by the way. It's just like, this People don't jump over each other forward or backwards out on Broad Street. - Well, this is gonna turn (Seth and Ryan laugh) Saquon-ing each other? I do think the word that you used that is really summing I was talking about how the photo divorced from the moment is almost its own moment. I think if you were to watch the video and look at the photo and it's still like, almost can't believe this is the same- going with this. - It was faked, is that what you're saying? - This was done on a studio. extra closely, you'll see the strings. - Yep. (laughs) - The moment that jumps to mind for me is Bobby Orr's I think Stanley Cup winning goal. The goal he scored where he's And so there's the really It's from 1970. It's this iconic photo. As much time as it takes for jump over a guy and as Bobby Orr getting the shot off, leaping over the bodies And they caught the photo mid-flight. And so you're kind of like, here's this totally different perspective that you can understand but when you're only analyzing the photo, you're just kind of like, &quot;I know this body shouldn't - I think what makes this with a photo to fully do it He is doing something that with the few exceptions impressive but ordinary here, and a photo cannot tell you - Right. of operations, I don't - Yeah, exactly. If I showed you a photo of and I was like, the ball is actually, the ball traveled 400 feet out of the bleachers- from the stands. Or if I showed you a and I was like, he's pulling Then you'd be like, &quot;Whoa, than I thought&quot; and that's - Yeah, absolutely. - I mean, now I'm curious actually doing it in reverse though. - Yeah, if you reverse &quot;Oh cool, a hurdle&quot;? - Whoop! (laughs) It's a leapfrog. It's like a traditional leapfrog - It does look so much than I would've expected. - Yeah yeah yeah, the one thing I think that's giving it away is kind of like- - Backing up under his legs. - Oh, right right right. Focused on Saquon, things it looks rehearsed. actually, yeah, this looks - Saquon doing things backwards might be a really good - Yeah, this is just modern dance. - This is really satisfying. You know what's the craziest part of this that we haven't mentioned? - What? - He did fart, and that's why the towel is kind of doing that thing. - Yeah, I would say that thing about photos, you - Yeah. And you can't smell them.