Throughout history, we humans have been drawn Where do we come from? Is there a God? Do we as a species have the capacity to overcome a better future for us all? And of course, perhaps the most profound of OK, so maybe I'm slightly overstating the eel gonads might not have quite the same scientific theory of everything. But, oddly enough, it's a question that's years in the scientific community. Because, as weird as it sounds, eels lack And I don't mean that in some vague idiomatic the fins at the thought of extreme sports No. They literally don't have testicles. But if that's the case, how on God's green Well, before we get onto that, what exactly While they kind of resemble snakes that have being so monumentally ugly, they're actually But for multitudinous reasons they're remarkably you care to mention. Take European freshwater eels, for example. They lack scales, for a start, and can breathe That ability allows them to survive out of nifty movers on land - they can even climb. They hibernate in the winter if it gets too they also employ if the pond they're living They can live to almost 100 years of age, remarkably difficult to kill, and will keep cut off their heads thanks to a decidedly All in all, eels are pretty bloody odd. And that's before we even get to their troubling So, how does an animal without reproductive Believe it or not, this conundrum has occupied for at least a couple of millennia. Aristotle was probably the first to grapple thinker was as perplexed as anyone else by Still, as the father of western logic, he explanation. Eels don't have reproductive organs, according And if they don't reproduce, he reasoned, mechanism. Ultimately, he concluded eels spontaneously mud. Not one of his finest moments, that, but considering can give him a pass on this one. As you're no doubt aware, Aristotle's his death. And for that reason, the belief eels came as scientific fact for some two thousand years, own hypotheses forward as to exactly how the Roman author Pliny the Elder, who died in Vesuvius that buried Pompei in 79 AD, believed skins of other eels. Others felt certain eels sprouted from sea open stretches of water in a certain way. The Scots thought eels started out life as were born when hairs from horse tails fell I know I know; nobody comes out of this with times. It took a while, but eventually people began for an animal to just come to life from nothing. After all, the very idea seemed to violate uncovering in the millennia since Aristotle One man who could firmly be considered a sceptic And yes, I do mean that Sigmund Freud. You might be wondering what the most famous hunt for eel goolies, and I'll admit it story. But then again, if you know anything about obsessed with genitals, so the fact he was come as much of a surprise. In 1876, when Freud was still an enthusiastic he traveled to the city of Trieste in north Slovenian border. The purpose of the trip was simple - Freud get his hands on a nice set of eel balls. To that end, he took himself down to the city's home with their catch, from whom he would Then he went back home to begin the dissections. Freud spent several months in Trieste, and many as 400 eels during that time. The gory task seems to have gotten to him, his marbles in one letter to a friend, where eyes is the shimmering dead tissue, which It's no wonder he decided to take his career Especially when you consider all that hard the discovery Freud was hoping for. He'd found some interesting looking bits several large specimens, but there was nothing be an eel testicle. Freud had failed. Still, he wasn't the only one sceptical and ten years later in 1886, a breakthrough French zoologist Yves Delage had been keeping as a leptocephalus in a tank in his lab for strange little beast turned into something Yves had observed something that would change You see, eels are metamorphic creatures, and can only be described as one hell of an odd They start out as leptocephali much like the into transparent glass eels. Glass eels become elvers, elvers become yellow which are basically the eel's endgame form. The funny thing is, science had known about time - fisherman had been catching them and Jellied eel, anyone? But it had always been assumed they were different Nobody had ever realised they were all the Although Yves witnessed the metamorphosis discovery to be widely accepted. That might be because it went against conventional take poor old Yves too seriously. You see, he had a habit of making outlandish claim to have 'calculated' that the Turin fabric Christ was buried in after the crucifixion a fake. I'd really love to see your working there Anyway, it was with the discovery of this piece fell into place to help science finally Not because they spontaneously come to life energetic horse tail hairs, but because they them in their final, mature form. And you have to hand it to them; it does sound Because, as any guy will tell you, when you get in the way. So, one of the oldest questions in the animal But, rather annoyingly, the answer brought Because the first stage of the eel's life - it was found only in the ocean. Which neatly explained why poor old Sigmund of testicle during his 400 dissections - by can take anything from 7 to 70 years - they've So, that being the case - where exactly do year? In 1904, Danish scientist Johannes Schmidt Luckily, Schmidt was a doer. When he came across a question that left him his shoulders and go make a sandwich. He went out and found the answer - even if Which is why, over a period of some 19 years, leptocephali ever completed before or since. He was particularly interested in their size Because, as he slowly built up more and more closer he got to a certain point in the Atlantic were, until eventually, they couldn't get He'd found the eel's spawning grounds Not only was that rather fitting - because bit of 'sexual eeling', the Sargasso itself staggering. Because it meant European freshwater eels of some 6000 kilometres to have their young. The Sargasso is the only sea in the world Instead, it's surrounded by a vortex of on all sides. It's a sea within a sea, if you like, and hole for the Atlantic. That's why, as well as millions of randy garbage patch - hundreds of square kilometres Nice one, humans. Despite Schmidt's conclusions, which are seen eels mating in the Sargasso Sea. In fact, even with all our fancy technology, at all. Despite the fact we're pretty confident year. And in keeping with that somewhat patchy understanding we don't really know how the tiny eel larvae to Europe, either. Their strange, leaf-like shape is thought believe active swimming plays at least some We also don't know how long the journey larval state - estimates range from as little So yeah, we may have found their balls, but hidden up their sleeves. Well, sleeve, I guess. We've mostly been covering freshwater eels weird no matter which bit of the family tree There are snipe eels that look a bit like can grow to be 4 metres long, and European Rarely seen gulper eels live at depths of of disturbing and cute - kind of like what to turn Kirby into a horror franchise. And then there are parasitic snubnosed eels. These disturbing little living horrors use of larger fish, where they just... make themselves Typically they can be found snuggled up alongside but they've also been known to burrow directly promptly devour thousands of unhatched eggs In 1992, two parasitic eels were even found heart of a 400kg Mako shark caught near Montauk I should probably mention electric eels, too. Not because they can deliver an electric shock can - but because they aren't actually eels Bit of an embarrassing slip there, hey science Killer whales aren't whales - they're American buffalo are actually bison, honey and horny toads are in fact lizards - and, any other animal out there. Knifefish imposters aside, eels are some of on planet earth. But while there are still plenty of mysteries creatures, we do at least finally know for I'm sure you'll all sleep easier tonight Which should give you plenty of time to vividly way through your chest and taking up residence Thanks for watching.