For almost 50 years, the CN Tower has dominated of the tallest communication towers ever built, of the 20th century. to the public in the summer of 1976 as the and it held that title for more than 3 decades in 2007. structure in the Western hemisphere, and also being more than 40 years old. engineering, but it becomes even more impressive by hand in the 1960's and 70's before The design and construction phases spanned of innovative solutions to challenging problems a project of this scale. and construction crew were formally recognized as one of the seven wonders of the modern Civil Engineers. icon, and in today's video we are going constructed, starting from the foundation more than half a kilometer above the ground. Today, the city of Toronto and the Greater Toronto Area make up one of the largest metropolitan of more than 6 million people. shore of Lake Ontario, consisting of densely the CN Tower serving as the centerpiece of This part of the city looked completely different planning for the CN Tower first began. a large construction boom and the first skyscrapers These tall buildings quickly became problematic because the existing transmission towers in them. a massive communications tower that would built within the foreseeable future. called for UHF transmitters at a height of transmitters at heights ranging from about These specifications governed much of the to the selected materials and construction The decision was made to exceed the minimum to make the CN Tower the tallest free-standing strength of Canadian industry. project, which is about 350 million in today's also incorporated into the design to bring These include a 360deg revolving restaurant observation decks offering incredible views The tower consists of a 450 m tall concrete along its height, and this is topped off with The UHF transmitters are positioned at the the revolving restaurant, 2 observation decks, There is a second smaller pod known as the shaft, which features a single observation above along the height of the steel mast. of Canada for Canadian National, commonly John Andrews and Roger Du Toit, and structural Construction began in February of 1973, and crews working 24 hours a day and 5 days a the 1,537 workers. work started with the foundation before moving a more detailed look at the tower's design. m thick and Y-shaped, with three wings extending the three legs of the tower. of the tower as well the overturning moments these forces to the ground below. had to be excavated in order to construct on solid bedrock which consists of horizontal The self-weight of the entire structure is the foundation, and the average normal stress about 575 kPa. cross-sections with straight vertical edges, concentrations in the soil due to sudden changes This was not acceptable for the CN Tower because of shale bedrock would be susceptible to fracture. could lead to progressive failure and instability of the critical failure modes for the entire To mitigate this problem, the edges of the of 5.5 m in the middle to 1.2 m around the The reduction in thickness corresponds to thus reducing the stresses in the bedrock This ensures that the layers of shale will the foundation and the rest of the tower. vertically on the foundation and induces compressive shaft generates spreading forces that also Concrete is a material that is very strong reinforcement such as steel rebar is often structures. under tension, however, which is undesirable damage due to freeze-thaw cycles and corrosion This was a major concern for the CN Tower's below the water table, and so the concrete in order to counteract the tensile forces After the concrete was poured, 48 high-strength which were pre-installed inside the formwork Each cable is made up of many individual strands, with a tensile strength of 1,862 MPa. jacks and then anchored to the exterior of compressive forces within the concrete. under 1,800 kN, and the average 2-dimensional about 6.9 kPa prior to long-term pre-stress A portion of the initial pre-stress was inevitably creep, as well as relaxation of the steel the design to ensure that the foundation will To prevent cracks from developing during the dosage of cement was used so that shrinkage This was particularly important due to the of heat would have accumulated deep within that occur during curing. the buildup of heat is the fact that the foundation with a series of caverns that extend from The caverns are approximately 5.3 m wide by points that were used for post-tensioning process. through four 1.8 m diameter access holes in their post-tensioning operations from inside still going on overhead. still required more than 7,000 cubic meters steel, and it took roughly 3 months to construct. on the 450 m tall concrete shaft. the tower, providing support for the broadcasting allowing vertical access for people and services. which forms the central core, and three elevator facing towards the outside. support legs extend away from the central from the top of the tower to the bottom. drawn around the supports with a diameter The tapered legs extend to a height of 342 pod structure, and the elevator shafts continue 382 m. spans the entire height of the shaft, extending a height of 450 m. lines for the tower, as well as a staircase and egress. contained stairs when the tower first opened, that two additional elevators could be added. shaft range in thickness from just under 1/2 and straight with the only exception being The curvature of the legs was carefully optimized to carry gravity and wind loads with a minimal The shape is similar to an inverted icicle the optimal curvature can be derived mathematically loads. tower that is both very tall and not supported a design that is far more economical than In the case of the CN Tower, the tapered legs for structural support because the shaft is be crushed under its own weight. a circular cross-section for optimal efficiency, have outward-facing glass elevators so that and down. with a prismatic core and three tapered legs, shape also solved a number of problems involving The shaft was constructed using a method known moving form on hydraulic jacks. with several work platforms was built on top Concrete was then mixed on-site and poured upwards as the bottom layers cured and gained The form had an open bottom so that it could of the tower, which is why it is referred As it continued to rise, one crew continuously another crew placed steel reinforcement and The walls of the slip-form were also adjusted shape, effectively shrinking the form as it In order to deliver materials and equipment constructed inside the central core, and it structure. and 3,600 metric tonnes of reinforcing steel slip-forming process took 8 months with crews Extreme care was taken to keep the form perfectly of the completed shaft was only out of plumb This corresponds to a vertical deviation of given the 450 m height and the fact that it equipment. thought of as a vertical cantilever that is for carrying significant wind loads in addition The tower is so tall that the distribution most its height, and it has been designed which is greater than the highest recorded Prior to construction, the wind action and at the Boundary Layer Wind Tunnel Laboratory Here, a 1:450 scale aeroelastic model was components of the tower using displacement, The overall dynamic response of the structure to design two passive tuned mass dampers which Although the wind tunnel testing did not predict the dampers were added anyway to improve the Under a sustained wind speed of 200 km/h with shaft will sway as much as 0.5 m from center, as 1 m. load, either from wind or from an earthquake, the structure, with the highest bending moment As the shaft bends under the load, one side the other side will experience tensile stress. due to the possibility of cracking as we have so the shaft was pre-stressed using a post-tensioning forces. stress over the cross-section so that the experience any tension up to a 1 in 50-year For wind speeds exceeding a 1 in 50-year event, and cracking may occur on the windward face, integrity of the tower and the cracks can The post-tensioning system consists of 144 through the vertical ducts installed in the Each cable contains 16 to 31 individual strands, each strand is made up of 7 steel wires with The cables that are located within the core the way down to the foundation, while the The top ends of the cables are anchored into the shaft, and the bottom ends are anchored Most of the cables were tensioned from the pre-stress force between 1,800 kN and 3,500 number strands. new process in the 1970's when the CN Tower engineers to predict pre-stress losses and especially on a project of this scale. ducts and post-tensioning cables were installed continuously monitored and adjusted as construction Two spare ducts were provided for every group so that the number of strands in each cable Although the ducts were made from rigid helically-corrugated or blocked during the slip-forming process inside. due to the brake and stressing jack losing snapped under the load before the full force By the time post-tensioning was complete, had been used, and two blocked ducts in the so that cables could be installed. 762 metric tonnes was used to pre-stress the of about 365 MN, or 82 million lbs. structural elements of the concrete shaft main pod. of 1974, about a year and a half after ground components to be completed before the tower There are seven primary levels, as shown in tower, and the internal structure consists framing. the pod, and this is where the UHF transmitters A Teflon-coated fiberglass fabric wraps all form a radome, and it is inflated with air The radome protects the broadcasting equipment interfering with any of the signals, and it the pod. that are open to visitors, offering incredible an outdoor terrace, and glass panels that I had the opportunity to visit the tower before that the glass floor is 2.5" thick and can terrifying to stand up there looking 342 m Level 4 of the pod contains a revolving restaurant 360 degrees around the circumference. slab, which allows the rotating floor to remain around the outside. floor, and guests get to experience a full as it makes one full rotation about every Levels 5, 6, and 7 are off-limits to visitors, equipment, level 6 for VHF broadcasting equipment, for the tower. above the pod inside the concrete core, and well as for pumping and storage of domestic The structural steel frame of the pod forms tower, and the entire structure is supported are mounted to the exterior of the shaft. and they are arranged in a radial pattern They are also exposed on the outside of the if you look up inside the radome. slab at the second level of the pod, and a into the floor around the circumference. walls against the shaft, which provides lateral around the wooden planks of a barrel. that would otherwise result from the weight The post-tensioning system consists of 12 around the center of the tower, each with Each cable spans 180 degrees around the beam, that there are 6 cables present at every section. inside of the beam, and post-tensioning was symmetry of the resulting stresses. kN was applied to each cable, which corresponds any given section within the ring beam. around the base of the shaft, where concrete Six individual assemblies were built from for the brackets was placed inside the forms. top of shaft, and this was used to hoist the hydraulic jacks. assemblies rising 68 m per day before reaching Once in position, the forms were tied together poured to cast the bracket walls. second level floor slab and ring beam on top for the pod. by roughly 15 m, and it served as a working construction, before being disassembled and The steel framing for the upper 5 levels was of iron workers, which formed a skeleton for All the iron work for the tower was completed task for the workers, who were often perched fall protection. there were some safety measures in place, during construction. SkyPod was constructed simultaneously just of 447 m, about 80 m above the roof of the It is supported by a circular concrete corbel and access is provided by an elevator located The SkyPod is significantly smaller than the deck enclosed by glass panels, but it is the hemisphere, and among the top 5 highest in On a clear day, guests can experience sight Falls and New York State on the other side I also discovered that if you stand up there tower sway beneath your feet, which was a slightly terrifying at the same time. for an additional 104 m beyond the concrete m at the very top of the tower. is anchored into the shaft, and it is made to as cans, each measuring between 1 and 6 The cans are hollow with a pentagon-shaped up the antenna to create a 95 m tall mast m wide at the tip. with a hollow square cross-section, completing 272 metric tonnes all together. up the exterior of the antenna in groups of cans, and they are secured in place with light The cables for the transmitters are fed through tower, taking up most of the space inside The antenna is also fitted with various warning lightning rods at the very top, which guide copper strips that run the entire height of In order to protect the broadcasting equipment the steel structure, the antenna is fully which consists of many individual panels with The skin is essentially a radome, similar at the base of the main pod, and a plastic with radio signals. schedule to erect the antenna on top of the to use a helicopter to place the steel can A Sikorsky SkyCrane nicknamed Olga was leased at a cost of $230,000 USD, which equates to the overall construction time by an estimated Once it arrived on site, the helicopter was inside the central core, before completing other components of the antenna, the heaviest The steel cans were fabricated and erected on the ground several months prior to construction alignment issues during the lifts. cans faster than the iron workers could bolt placed in quick succession and secured with of workers went in afterwards to finish the Roughly 30,000 1-inch diameter bolts were outside the antenna mast, with bolting crews platform that was slowly winched up the tower. off with the final steel section of the antenna, m was recorded, marking the tower as the tallest This was followed by the installation of the radome, which was attached to the exterior cage to protect the workers from falls. on the main pod below for about another year and the tower went into service on June 26, first began. as a Canadian icon, and it has been recognized and construction. the landmark every year, and it still serves providing transmission services for more than Additional infrastructure has also been installed cell phone providers and digital audio broadcasting. place on the attractions side as well, including LED lights on the exterior; the elevators; on top of the main pod, where guests can experience of 356 m while tethered to an overhead safety The CN Tower is an awe-inspiring structure almost 50 years, and with an expected design to inspire many future generations as one the 20th century. Hey guys, if you enjoyed today's video about the CN Tower, then please consider subscribing to hit the bell to get notified every time This was a challenging project that has taken really helps me out so I can continue making If you would like to go a step further and also check out my Patreon page using the link As always, thanks so much for watching, and