Buongiorno, guys! It's Max Ginestra. And today I'm with a local legend, Anubhav from Delhi Food Walks. Thank you. Thank you for coming. What's the plan for tonight? We are going to explore the local cuisine of Old Delhi. I will take you to the heritage where you have to try all I'm super excited. Let's go. Andiamo! First place Anubhav brought us to that has been running since 1872. And what are we going to have here? Paratha is typically North Indian There are different fillings, bacon, meat, even chickpea flours, You name it, they have it. Let's give it a go. And this is where magic starts We're going to have two. and I believe is going to be sweet. Yeah. And one is with mixed veggies. See, a mixture of veggies. Boom! He stuffs it All the parathas are deep fried giving them a distinctive This is definitely what sets And that one is with the Rabdi, Unbelievable. We are in the oldest paratha shop It looks like banana. Then mixed veggies. More veggies. And I believe we are set to go. Nice. Thank you. Here we are. Traditionally it's a breakfast dish. Here at this place they serve it from 24/7 We have right here Oh..look! Peas, we have cheese, paneer, onion, a bunch of spices and something that you can get In Paranthe Wali Gali the one with Rabdi. It's sweet with a half-moon shape. It's like an Italian Panzerotto with an Indian touch. Then we have over here sweet pumpkin, peas and potatoes, banana with a sweet sauce, and potato I feel like to try the pumpkin. I'll have with the sweet ones. Okay. Cheers! Oh, this is so unique. And spicy too Yes, spicy and sweet Exactly. Spicy, sweet, savoury, creamy. And it's not actually greasy, I don't think it's greasy. Now we need to go for this one. What's the most polite way The best way to eat this paratha is Just like this? They have cashews, raisins, almonds. Woah! This is definitely calling Enjoy. Oh, man. This is amazing. It's nutty, we got the crunchiness Oh, they're dry fruits as well. They completely explodes This is absolutely amazing. This is the best way to start Next stop, we're going cooked the old fashioned way. What do we have here? So here we're going to try Nankhatai Nankhatai, okay. This is very similar to shortbread. And it is made up of chickpea flour. Then you have refine flour, semolina, And he baked it right here It's like an oven for him. Made the old way, It doesn't get any more traditional And we're going to have this Andiamo. This is absolutely crazy. Deep in Old Delhi. Oh, my God. We are going to have chai to pair with our shortbread, The streets are super full. It's evening. -Evening time And people are starving. We just made it to the chai shop Beautiful. Hello! Hello! -It's chai with almonds. Okay. -Then they add a little bit of saffro and they serve it in a clay cups. Oh.. Alright. So they take something simple Oh, and those are the spices. Yeah, that's the spice mix. Alright. Those are almond. Oh, almonds. It's ready. The chai is ready. The special golden chai. Serve with almonds and saffron. Beautiful. Nicely decorated with saffron on top. Alright. Let's get the shortbread. Cheers! Oh, wow. It's a very delicate, crumbly -You can taste the cardamom. Cardamom, yes, yes. Let's dip it in. Yeah. -See, they have so many saffron stand Yeah. Oh, yeah. I definitely can taste the saffron, It's very aromatic. -And the spice mixed. Yes, the secret spice mixed. That was pretty intense. It was really good. Thank you so much. Thank you. Oh, this chai was unbelievable. And the hospitality. What can I say? The best as always here in India. Come and visit this place because it's 100 years old. After savouring the warm a unique dessert, typically Daulat Ki Chaat. This elegant treat is crafted with infused with saffron, and topped A true definition of In English I called it Beautiful. Especially with the -Some milk solid. What a nice looking dessert. Thank you so much. -Every morning he wakes up and he makes all of this. He still prepares it as -And whatever is leftover they can't So they heat it and It becomes because in the end it's So he heats it and it becomes Cool. Look at here, oh..! So foamy. It's like bitting into almost nothing It's biting into something Oh, my God. It's good. Oh, it's amazing. It's like you haven't eaten anything satisfying with the saffron Super elegant. The consistency is like when you have and you try the froth at the top. I can say without a doubt This is just so unique. As the night progresses, especially with the Diwali People are buying goods from foods and religious symbolism This city is just bursting This is the coolest street Oh, wow. We just enter the street fully decorated and it's just so beautiful, It feels like to be in a fairytale. And now we are going to meat heaven. We're going to have a few meat I'm super hungry, What kind of kebab -The kebab that they sell is Seekh Kebab. -Seekh is the word that we use On the skewers they put minced meat Amazing. -They have different varieties They have buffalo kebab, they have Beautiful. We're going to have both? We can try all of them Let's go. Oh, my God. This is an absolutely crazy place. We've got chicken right here, and Seekh Kebab. So minced meat put on a skewer. We have a mutton and chicken. Unbelievable. This is the right place to come I'm going to cook! Oh..! Oh.... The best Seekh Kebab in Delhi. They have another station right here where they cook on charcoal Oh, butter? Beautiful! Look! Oh, my God. This is crazy. The best kebab show ever. So full of butter on top that gives extra flavour. And look, these are freshly made. Fresh chicken kebab, chicken Thank you so much. We got all the sets, all the kebab sets right here. We have buffalo, mutton and chicken. Full of butter, cream all over, And I can't wait to dig in. I need to try the buffalo first. Oh, Mamma Mia! It looks so juicy. Buon Appetito. Mamma Mia It dissolves in your mouth. Creamy, so juicy With a hint of spiciness, You've got the butter It dissolves in your mouth. I really want to try the chicken Let's dip it in. Oh, look at the butter, oh.. The chicken is even more tender. Yes. You can really taste the difference The chicken is super mega tender, full of herbs and spices. And then you got the butter And everything is cooked still the natural way Mamma Mia And I know, I heard that this has been awarded as kebab in Old Delhi. Unbelievable. So, I eat right from the skewer. This is with chicken? -Yes. Fresh from the charcoal Whoa! It's even more juicy. This is crazy. Next level in the juiciness, creaminess, Mamma Mia! Thank you so much. It's still piping hot Super juicy, full of herbs inside. It doesn't get any fresher than this right from the skewer. This is the ultimate kebab Yeah, kebab experience here in Delhi. And now the next place is one of the for a very long time, The legendary Karim. What do we have here? Mutton stew. -Yes, lamb. Over there? Mutton Korma. This is? Oh, boneless. -This is Nihari. Nihari? -Of course famous. This is brain. Brain? Oh, bheja? -This is chicken. Chicken curry. I'm super excited. It's been a dream This is a legendary place, since 1913 It's been running Let's go! Mutton Korma. -Brain curry. Brain. Oh..! -Sweet bread- Sheermal. Sheermal. Look at here. Full of spices, curry, ghee. And here we have the Mutton Korma. Woah..look at the pieces of bone, This is a truly legendary place. Let's give it a go. Let's take a piece of the mutton. Let's take a piece of the bread. Alright. And now dip in the sauce. That's the right way First bite here at Karim. Buon Appetito. -How's it? I can taste hundreds of years of history of mastering the art of The sweetness of the bread, matches perfectly the richness This is unbelievable. The meat is super tender, And the bread is quite spongy This is incredible. My mouth is literally dancing This is pure joy. Happy kid. Moving on. We going for the brain. What I want to do is with this Let's get a huge chunk. Buon Appetito! Pure cream Actually it has no odour at all This obviously has been boiled And with this bread a bit of the richness. -And this bread kind of absorb Exactly. -When you eat brain curry It does, it does make me smart. What an incredible experience. Let's keep going. Andiamo. Our next destination the Hyderabadi style. Bursting with spices it's a culinary delight Look at all the saffron, the cardamom, and all the spices. As you can smell, it's a saffron rice and at the bottom you have a layer of The new pot of Biryani, Super aromatic. Oh, unbelievable. Coriander. Amazing. I really looking forward And here we are. Can I go with my hand? -That's the best way to eat Biryani. Mamma Mia, look at the chicken. Let's get some rice. Fluffy rice. It's very well balanced, elegant. It's a dish that, it's definitely It brings you joy and happiness. And it's not marinated in aggressive -The most order dish is Biryani. I understand why. -So that's why we say, for us Biryani is an emotion. Biryani is an emotion and I totally agree emotions. We have arrived at the new location. JFC, JAMA Masjid Fried Chicken. The best fried chicken in India. -And he's Colonel Sanders. Colonel Sanders. The master is here. The owner. The chef. Let's take a look. Look at the chicken. Oh, my goodness. Look! We have the master here that special fried chicken. secret marination, has been serving He's marinating the chicken, Chickpea flour batter. He starts mixing it. We've got this huge opportunity to see the preparation Yellow chilli Other spices. Now he's going to mix it I try the chicken? Right from the master. How do you say delicious? It's delicious. -More chickpea flour Chickpea flour Oh, my God. I'm having so much fun. There's just so much action. Like chicken over here, And people keep on coming. Unbelievable. Alright, let's squeeze Alright The ultimate Delhi fried chicken. Can I say? Yes. -DFC, Delhi Fried Chicken. Oh, yeah, DFC It's unbelievable. So juicy, citrusy, The chutney is a bit spicy, and the chaat masala is kind of hit you This is a truly legendary place, and I understand why. -Because imagine it's since 1975 they're making the same thing. They mastered two dishes ever since, Amazing. Right across the street, butter chicken. Succulent chicken Get ready for a flavour explosion Look at all these kebabs. Marinated chicken kebabs, Here we are. More spices, yoghurt, a bit of a mix, more spices Oh, oh ho...Mamma Mia The butter! This is chicken kebab -It's called Aslam style then you put some yoghurt, That's it. Let's go inside and enjoy this kebab. I have in front of me This is their version of Look how creamy! Cooked over charcoal You can see how charred it is. Let's give it a try. Buon Appetito. It's pure butter. It's pure butter but somehow I can taste a bit of the lemon, because it adds a lot of And as soon as you dip into It's an explosion of butter, And now I should try with the roti? -You can try with the roti, Rumali roti. Let's deep it in the butter. You got the sourness, savoury, super flavourful. Well, this is a cheat meal. Is a cheat meal. And I love by inventing their own special recipe And that's what makes this dish So, really a big thumbs up for me. After indulging in the meat marathon, now it's time to satisfy So now we're going for Chaat Something that is unique to Delhi Namaskar. Hello -4th generations. We're going to try some super -And everything, whatever they cook Give it a bit of a mix. So here we have potatoes with a mix of spices. And just so you know, so far because as a Hindu -Yeah, on Tuesday. Yes. He doesn't eat meat. So, cheers! Pure. You got immediately the crunchiness, mushiness, and starchiness I'm really looking forward This is incredible. I've never seen something like that. -They hollowed them out A secret mix of spices. As always, every shop has they own This is this sugar? some lemon. I just love the chaat concept. There are so many and each city Oh, chickpeas. Pomegranate Nice and colourful. Take a closer look. We got watermelon, cucumber, orange and sweet potato. Stuffed with a secret mix of spices, This is just fantastic. Eat everything in one bite. Alright. Okay. Cheers! Oh, man. It's so refreshing! the orange explodes in your mouth, You've got the chickpeas, the crunchiness of the pomegranate. Do you like yours? -I loved it. You loved it? It bursts with flavours. This is Delhi in one bite. Fireworks in one bite. Unbelievable. Now we have arrived to the oldest in India probably. How many generations? Maybe five, six, seven? -More than that. To have kheer, rice pudding. Super excited. Namaskar. This is super traditional. Kheer. And they mastered it. Oh.. Oh my goodness! you can really feel the rice. It's just pure cream. This is unbelievable. Oh, my goodness. Now I need to get one portion. Because this is so good. Thank you. Now I got the portion. So you were saying that and milk. That's it. This is what I needed right now. And I love this thick layer on top. My grandma used to make It would taste very similar. No, not exactly the same, but really, so many memories This is a must visit With 143 years of experience, disappointment is simply And let's go to the last place. Last place. Let's go. We came to our last place for the very first time. This Kulfi is a masterpiece crafted blending rich ingredients like milk, And what's the twist? It's stuffed inside the fruit Genius! India is so creative in desserts. It's unbelievable, This is something that I never tried. Oh, wow. Beautiful colour. And let's see what's inside. Let's go for the mango one. Cheers! My favourite. -This is the classic stuff Kulfi. You can taste the milk, almonds, It's so delicious. The best. -The mango is so sweet. Yes, the mango also sweet. Oh, Paan Kulfi? The Ultimate Kulfi. Oh, wow. This is a bomb! Alright. You got those.. Yeah. I feel my mouth kind of You know, when you eat something it's um.. refreshing. Yeah, this.. That's nice, quite unique, actually. And sweet as well. This has been the ultimate Old Delhi food tour. -I hope you liked the food -I hope you enjoyed the food tour. I enjoyed everything. I enjoy your presence. You are incredible. You love your country. You love your food, Thank you so much -Thank you and hope to see you again. We will. Just visit Delhi Food Walks dot com And check his YouTube channel, Thank you so much Anubhav. See you next week! Thank you so much.