We've said it before, but Sony Pictures Animation has a lot of variety in its movies-so of Some of these guys are just petty criminals, universe. You already know the question, and which ones are hopelessly in I'm Kifinosi with WickedBinge, and this is Sony For this list, we'll be focusing on the major the Sony Pictures Animation umbrella. That be going off their general intelligence-both book smarts and street smarts-and the Let's get things started with the first Taking the bottom spot on our list is character begins and ends as your typical he's....well, he's good at surfing. Tank really doesn't have much going on up there necessary to grow his trophy collection(which While Tank is not a good guy by any means, he being brutally honest about not seeing himself up to because he's good at what he does. There's but it's mostly taken away by his tendency lack of any intellectual feats reflects though-in the sequel, he's willing to swallow during a dangerous round of surfing. From then so he's at least not too stubborn to Next is the villain of Hotel Transylvania 2, father Vlad, and like him, Bela absolutely towards humans, and doesn't show any mercy towards son is half-vampire, he of course doesn't Of course, the question remains as Bela may be threatening as a monster, but is an infant half-vampire and managed to break motivations begin and end with "humans he's really just a thug who wants Now we have the first villain in the studio's wild animals teaching their domesticated no greater threat than a poacher with no regard he's also sadistic and vengeful-which leads him to ultimately getting him arrested. Considering that ILLEGALLY, his placement in our lowest category That being said, it's worth mentioning that Shaw impressively resourceful and opportunistic, to his gain. When he's released from jail in Shaw takes the opportunity to become a tour of where his animal foes are at. He later catches fearful rumors of him at a town meeting. This Season so he can hunt down the werewolf(and can be smart in certain situations, but it's is in hunting down the animals he believes fact that he's insane to the point where he Speaking of holding grudges against woodland McGregor from Peter Rabbit. Thomas keeps his hatred for the animals who keep stealing food wouldn't be unreasonable for him to put some taller fence, some barbed wire-and if none of that group that could safely relocate the bunnies? stubborn, and short-tempered to do this. He throughout the movie, from punching a giant teddy more notably, his constant feud with the Rabbits. stealing from his garden or pranking him, but kept on using petty traps to attack the rabbits. or even use them against Thomas himself, All of this stems from a serious lack of composure with Bea fell apart was because he was dumb blowing up their burrow on her property with process. Literally just call animal control, too much-refusing such a simple solution is a sure he was able to hold a decent job for a but he's still pretty stupid for holding Now it's time for the villains in their endeavors-these are the SMART VILLAINS. He may come from the circus, but Doug of his life therein, Doug decides places with him by promising he'll come Doug was only doing this as his own license to the forest as its only grizzly bear. Doug gets and for coming up with this plan so quickly-not he's still pretty low on the intellectual totem Here's what we mean; he really just...thought with no preparation. What will he do when the place? Nobody knows-not even Doug. Sure, he keep his position of power, but he ended up being thanks to the other animals' strength in numbers. even had a front-up plan. At least he decided to to call it quits-practical smarts like that are Speaking of weight in gold-up next is Pockets from just happens to be fighting Din throughout the description. Nonetheless, Pockets is more He is a very composed and patient man get the results he wants-his whole plan is to only to betray him in the very end But while Pockets is great at obtaining power once he actually HAS said power. You see, Pockets Touch-basically, the ability to turn anything he'd give himself something with a little something. He could've at least clarified that he but...no. Din manages to defeat him with touch himself and presumably shatter on really-all that planning and patience to be Finishing up our Open Season villains, next up is Open Season 2. Oh, and no, we aren't kidding-the believes wild animals are inherently evil, and would drive them back to their primal instincts. him running into some wild animals for the first right after-so we have to feel at least some Insane or not, though, Fifi was definitely a to gain the trust of the other domesticated via fear tactics. He's also ruthless enough to which he was planning to straight-up kill clear lack of sanity, the only thing he's he set off the collars without even realizing he's been neutered-as has his evil side-so than hinder them. But a lack of observation Up next is Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs's politicians are par-for-the-course as movie some extra brain points for his manipulation Shelbourne takes full advantage of Flint's despite the clear risks-with the threat that Unbeknownst to Flint, this was actually more of a even further by Shelbourne blaming Flint for the He's ultimately defeated due to his own newfound his only hope of escape. He's not seen after so we can only hope he learned his lesson...and got Up next is the evil wizard Gargamel from The evil villain in Sony Pictures Animation history, On one hand, the guy is REALLY clumsy. He doesn't really give his allies-like the and his only real method of "manipulation" to reveal the secrets of the Smurfs' a Naughty into a Smurf-by promising But while it seems like Gargamel is he's intellectually strong in ONE area: determination. Despite how absolutely hated he to use every last resource at his disposal to his goals sometimes. Clumsy and stubborn Smurfs and constantly has new ideas for how to just because a villain always loses, doesn't Now we go from a metaphorical monster to a literal isn't the first villain in the studio's lineup, isn't a traditionally evil villain. Dracula of the first and second movies, manipulating of humans is absolutely horrific. He does paying other monsters to act as humans and treat when she's heartbroken about not being able that level of deception is seriously impressive it in the second movie by sending Mavis Dennis his own way-and hopefully That said, Drac's biggest strength is lies and deceptions get him what he wants for a ragged trying to keep up the charade when it the truth. If Drac were a full-on villain, what we've seen so far he'd almost certainly get If you thought HE was scary, wait until our Slappy may not be the only monster we see in the one we see most of...and believe us, he's no thereby brought to life once again, Slappy seal him up in his writing once again. He manuscripts to not only screw up his plans On top of all this, Slappy becomes using a mix of charisma and intimidation to make he mostly lets them do their own thing-distracting For a guy made of wood who's been stuck in paper Everybody say "cheese" for our next opponent: Smiler from The Emoji Movie. As the leader sure everything is running smoothly inside the with the intimidation to keep others in line She's also sharp enough to nip problems she suspects that Gene is a malfunction, one mistake! Say what you will about her won't let any potential problem grow bigger simply because the characters in our final Finally, it's time for the brainiest of Our first villain in this category is one of royal Band of Misfits. Given the whole "royal bloodline" be a king or queen. You DO need to be smart to that's exactly what Queen Victoria does. She whether it's stringing Charles Darwin along so and the Pirate Captain that she's going to keep The Queen was a difficult character to much of her scheming or anything-it more situations to her advantage comes naturally even more impressive-which is why we felt she Next, we finally have our first villain from Into the Spider Verse. Don't let his a master of criminal and business intelligence. successful company. It's another entirely with the intimidation to keep others under alternate dimensions. You see where we're of these lifestyles at once, with most of He may not be the one actively tracking building the Super Collider, but he's smart recruit the people who can do these things. with his ability to stay under the radar makes Just outside of our top five is Zeta from Angry at the altar, Zeta grew more vicious than ever. which no doubt took a lot of intelligence. This island is compared to Piggy and Bird Island-and Zeta's plan, while petty, is actually very impressive feat of resourcefulness, by the and Piggy Island to evacuate so she can make can enjoy sipping on pina coladas by the beach not due to any flaws in her plan, but rather due which distracts her long enough for her We're entering our top five now, starting Abraham van Helsing. We may have praised but Helsing deserves just as much monsters for decades without ceasing, and Dracula. His plan to gather the monsters on smart already-but what really boosts The sheer amount of inventions we see him He's able to move around using a cyborg between the third and fourth movies-and him take on any monsters he might come as shown in Transformania when he turns Johnny Helsing doesn't really have any particular he isn't even higher is because the last four Just barely outside of our top three is The Spot is probably the last SpiderMan villain anyone movies, but this really is the timeline we live worked on the Super Collider under Kingpin and significantly to this project shows that Spot But then there's...you know, the villain as we see from his ability to replicate increase his own power. He single-handedly made greatest threat in the known Spider-Verse The Bronze Medal of Genius goes to another with a Chance of Meatballs 2. Chester V was his intelligence is the only area in idolization. Thankfully, it's also the only area Chester is a brilliant inventor, a that's all before the events of the Chester manages to gain Flint's trust uses this trust to convince him to retrieve the he just wants to use it for himself-in order new FoodBar 8.0. Not only does this show but it also emphasizes his business skills-he's different versions of it by now. If he didn't get The Silver Medal of Genius goes to Dr. Olivia we're giving Spot a LOT of credit but we can't possibly ignore the head honcho to head up his Super Collider project in She's a successful CEO and a brilliant under her belt. In addition to there's her obvious physical modifications that to work with. She's able to make Peter feel at him with the reveal that she's Doc Ock. When Olivia is top-shelf-and we should all thank Still, our Gold Medal of Genius definitely has Usually in Dumb-to-Brilliant lists, our gold requires some deliberation. P.A.L. is one of much easier. We'll give it to you straight: she's P.A.L. smart enough to independently communicate but when she's tossed aside and labeled last bit of technology in the world to do her the picture to create a world only inhabited by her control at this time, that means that the Seriously, there's just...NO way around it. She last bit of electricity in the world and used humanity. She legitimately had them all locked up 2 or 3 good guys. PAL struggled against 4...after and if you think PAL is bad, just 10 pro + Max coming this fall. She comes