Before I actually give you I'd like to sell it to you by telling you Since our plethora of technological time-saving I will do you the charitable deed of saving you what thousands of other commencement speakers have I want to say 10 uncomfortable things about to cultivate: identity, self-esteem, service to justice, openness, love, and freedom. but, unlike most commencement speakers, I First, a word about lies. It's a well-known that there are three kinds of lies: As they also say, figures But I think that principle should be expanded, damned lies, statistics, I think most commencement addresses were which is the world's oldest profession, the by a shape shifter with many names, some Astaroth, Baal, and Satan. The first product that product with the bite taken out of it is He has chutzpah because these are labels His partner in sadism is Bill Gates, author of the Our Lord promised that the gates of hell would did not promise that the hell of Gates would The word advertising is itself an advertisement. for no man-made product could ever be simply telling the truth. Most people think that but that's only one form of advertising. I know something about this form of advertising that is, a college professor. I don't sell But I do sell my mind. Boston College is my pimp. Students pay my pimp, it's called it's called salary. That's The business I work for is brains for hire. But today, there has been a miracle. I have just like Jim Carrey in the So, I can lie today only if and therefore I will give you 10 common, and prostitutes have been telling you for Lie number one is that you can Well, that's not true, even for God. He Good cannot be evil, and evil cannot be good. There is indeed a little good in the worst so that it ill becomes the best of But there is not a little evil in goodness because nothing can be what it is not. that which nothing more certain can ever So this popular self-contradiction is, well, something that is logically possible and changed well, it's still a lie because if would have become the greatest left-handed Hobbits cannot become wizards, only better only better or badder men. You cannot make a saint. Only God can do that, though you can temporal creatures, that cannot done instantly, from its own essential nature. When it tries to as all our great dramatists have perceived, human Lie number two is what I think is the most and it was the theme song of a TV show for small Company.&quot; The song went like this: &quot;The most In other words, &quot;God, how That was the essence of Satan's philosophy As John Milton sagely said, &quot;Better to In fact, whenever we worship God does not make hell. We do. The song everyone When I was a kid, way back in the Jurassic age, perhaps once every few years some crazy man would public for no reason at all. Nowadays, that difference? Well, when I was a little kid, I can't think of a better way than that Some of these little kids I actually heard a psychologist once he didn't have enough self-esteem. He'd A good friend of mine swears that he heard sermon that, and I quote word for word, &quot;the to the world from his pulpit of the cross on This makes me angry because I love comedy and such out of business. When satire has become identical Lie number three is a sweeter It is that the world needs you, that you can save America or the culture. You are the messiah. you will need an animal to ride on, and the and certainly preferable to the lamb, Mother Teresa once said to Malcolm Muggeridge, the brilliant and cynical British journalist who &quot;Malcom, you're a good man. Why don't you Malcolm replied, &quot;Well, to answer you in that I'm a good man and he needs some good And then Mother Teresa uttered And Malcolm writes in his autobiography, &quot;I could Nobody ever won an argument Lie number four is that you need interpreted as thinking that This ability logically follows from and this is why you are encouraged to be spiritual discovered your divine identity, and God is not as an other. And God is also spiritual, not identity, what you need is not God's incarnation The devil is very spiritual, so you can create &quot;Behold, I make all things new.&quot; You are the That old superstition of objective truth is Lie number five is that you also need education in any positive truth but a negative skepticism Except, of course, that truth, which you yourself In other words, don't believe any dogma. All truth claims must be deconstructed, except Pontius Pilate, who defined a truth No building may stand in the way of especially a cathedral. One of Karl Marx's Goethe's &quot;Faust&quot; is &quot;everything that Lie number six is the lie of a spiritual all peace is good, including peace with the world, those who speak of enemies, as the Bible does We must be tolerant of everything except even the devil, we must accompany him and welcome exactly as Eve did. But the devil won't St. Michael the Archangel or the Blessed Virgin You see, if all peace is good, then all war lust, and pride, the war against the war against sin, because that assumes that is sinful and intolerably intolerant, and The only thing that's really evil is to believe is no devil. You have no enemies. Stop fighting Your religion is simply escapism, but think: Who Lie number seven is about peace and the most popular and successful modern version Christianity is a radically different and thing, but everyone is for peace and justice. justice, it becomes as controversial as warm milk. An especially popular lie is the coupling of want peace, seek justice. In other words, if you our previous lie recommended, then at least don't See how successful that philosophy has been for and remember to demand justice so that you can get what you deserve, which Lie number eight is the exaltation of openness as the summum bonum, the end of ends. If your mind will become so open that An open mind is an excellent means but a bad as a means to eating food, some nourishing on that food and eat it and be nourished But if that openness is treated as an end in never close but will stay open all the and you will die, and also flies will enter maggots in your mouth, and the lord of the Lie number nine is that all you need is love, whatever that is. You just need love, whatever And of course, you don't need discrimination false love. All discrimination is evil, especially Sweet love clearly refers to love as a feeling, and as Obi-Wan Kenobi says to Luke Skywalker, &quot;It can't be wrong when it feels so right.&quot; Lie number 10 is the exaltation of freedom as a means, that would mean that we would have What is the true end? This is the sweet For the name of our new deity, &quot;whatever.&quot; Victor Frankl wrote that we ought in New York Harbor by having another in San Francisco Bay. But that would which forbid only being judgmental, repressive, insensitive, narrow-minded, hypocritical, Well, I'm finished. I fully expect to be charged and if you, too, oppose these lies, you may and cancers hate radiation, and cockroaches love cannot stop warring against hate and as you see every time you And that little experiment is a clue about No matter how smoky and stinky and slimy the successful the darkness may be, for however long many more times we continue to lose every battle All lies die. Truth alone remains. So, there's my commencement address, then. is very simple. Just go forth and by both word and deed, and then And please remember Mother Teresa's life-changing this world to be successful. He put