Depending on the day, I alternate between wanting to go out or move out to the woods And I know I'm not the only one. During 2020, people had an opportunity to slow down and consider and around the same time, Of course, now, five years later, is a lot of work. So many of them are moving And this got me thinking. What would it be like to take the feeling by moving out to the woods, out And applying that right where whether we live out in the country So that's what There is no right way to live, but many people today Some other option for living a life they're living today. I've had this phrase "A low maintenance life." The more I think about it, the more But I think the result of simple living I think the American culture I grew up in to be pretty lazy, and unmotivated, but it's actually incredibly intentional and adjusted based on your needs, To me, this is so much more appealing So let's take some time and talk to live a low maintenance, simple life. Simplifying your daily life. One of the biggest elements to a minimalist lifestyle The less things you have, the less time organizing them, cleaning them, Another big element to your daily and rhythms as you go throughout your day. So creating some simple habits and help you avoid decision fatigue Another big aspect of this could be having And I say this as someone on my calendar, could bring down your stress significantly to something that feels much Managing relationships. Someone who chooses to live a lifestyle higher quality friends or even toxicity of some larger or just individuals Basically, who actually add a ton of value Emotional balance. A low maintenance with unnecessary emotional turmoil and not getting bogged down Another element to So not being overly hard on yourself to constantly improve or meet Finances. I've avoided talking about finances on but I think this fits Just know this is not financial advice. This is just my personal I think the biggest element of this not pursuing a life situation, and instead using your finances to build a good foundation Another element of this that I feel is not paying for unnecessary things that don't actually So instead of spending a little bit to spend discretionary on things enjoy can bring a ton more value Meaningful activities. A simple life might look like and your money into activities Activities that are meaningful to you. Not activities that are just what everyone else is doing Keep in mind, and you are more responsible more time in your schedule, to be able to actually pursue Health. Health is one of those things we take I know even if I just have a head cold out of my nose again, The thing with a lifestyle like this more space is it gives you more time rather than it being an afterthought A lifestyle like this gives you more time things like prioritizing, rest, It also gives you more time to exercise and not exercise Another aspect of this is diet. For most of us, unless you have particular eating a balanced diet and then like 20% whatever you want The idea here is being able to eat without obsessing over exact Mindset and perspective. This is where it all comes together. This is the "why" of why rather than living the lives this could give us the opportunity to us, without chasing things do, even if we're not sure In a more detailed sense. This could look like So obviously knowing what your no's are on your personal values and beliefs. The next aspect here would be some sort Being less concerned with the past with being here right now Technology and social media. I think a huge aspect to this is spending less time connected to technology, disconnected, Just enjoying your life we've created around ourselves. I think this is and one of the places where I've seen The more and more Sometimes drastic measures are necessary, small, And so you don't have to take everything You don't even need But maybe consider one area to live more in alignment If you don't know what your values right up here for you to check out. It's about finding your values This is what's ultimately important to you the direction of your life. I want to leave you with a quote. It felt appropriate "I went to the woods to front only the essential facts of life, what it had to teach, discover that I had not lived." Henry David Thoreau, Walden.