I'm starting to feel the scent of early summer on the wind. Today is the harvest day that I have been looking forward to for a long time. Our cabbages have grown beautifully! I sowed the seeds last fall, and over the winter they have finally grown to this size. You will be eating all the outer leaves, so wash them thoroughly and set them aside. Today I would like to tell you about the days when I ate up all of my family's cabbage (3 pieces)! Cabbage: Thank you! First of all, I want to really get the taste of cabbage, so I'm going to make cabbage steak! ! Use the core of the cabbage. I decided to eat 1/4 ball per person. Add the sake and slowly simmer. Press. I'll turn it over when I buy transparent lol leaves . Bake while removing some of the moisture. If there are two people, it seems that half a ball will be eaten quickly. Prepare the garnishes as you like! The pasta flew away! ! lol Today I prepared fried eggs and peperoncino. The sauce is garlic butter flavor. This is absolutely delicious. The key is to add a little soy sauce. We recommend adding plenty of sauce. Add some chili peppers and it's done! A plate to celebrate the cabbage harvest. I'll enjoy having this! The fresh and sweet taste spreads throughout your mouth. The slowly grilled cabbage, eggs, and noodles give you the feel of okonomiyaki. In fact, I feel like the core has the strongest flavor and is the most delicious part. There's something I've been wanting to make once I harvest cabbage. It's sauerkraut! I will try using all the outer leaves. Spring Spice Research Group will be held. Cumin Mustard Clove Caraway Black Pepper Ginger Chili Pepper Add about 2% of the weight of the salt to the cabbage. Today, I added a little more salt because I was afraid of mold growing. Place a weight on it and let it ferment for about a week at room temperature. Then put it in a storage container and put it in the refrigerator. At night, we use the outer leaves, which are a byproduct of harvesting! The freshly harvested outer leaves are surprisingly soft. However, the texture is a little stronger than the cabbage itself, so I cut it into strips. Heat in the microwave for about 3 minutes. Be careful as the steam is very hot. Immediately cool in water, squeeze, and form into a ball shape. It's an interesting picture, but please forgive me. LOL Today, I will wrap this with pork belly and make a reverse cabbage roll! ! Even the tough outer leaves should become soft if you boil them. It looks like a meat-wrapped rice ball. Fry it in a frying pan starting from the seam. Take it out when it's slightly browned. Boiled tomatoes 390g 2 solid bouillons 400ml water Adjust the taste with salt and pepper and heat over low to medium heat. Add the meat-wrapped cabbage and one bay leaf and simmer for about 30 minutes. 2 cups of rice 2 teaspoons of chicken stock 1/2 teaspoon of salt 1/2 teaspoon of pepper 330ml of water Canned corn Sea Chicken This is a time-saving pilaf recipe that I've been using since high school. Just cut fresh onions and they become a spring treat. The standard way to eat it is to pair it with wakame. Reverse cabbage rolls that are slowly simmered. Top with cheddar cheese to finish. Pour plenty of soup over it and it's done! ! Today I prepared red wine to match the rich flavor of the outer leaves of cabbage. The wine goes well with a slightly more mature flavor that is stronger than regular cabbage rolls. It's finely chopped and stewed well, so it has a melt-in-your-mouth texture. OKONOMIYAKI always comes to mind when I eat cabbage. The illness of the Hiroshima native is not easily cured. Lol I'm looking forward to the sauerkraut too. The Cabbage Festival is still going on. The harvest season for cabbage comes all at once, and if you leave it alone, it will start to crack. The development of cabbage recipes will progress. Today I'm going to make a delicious rice ball breakfast using plenty of cabbage and rice. Finely chop the cabbage, rub it with salt, and squeeze it well to drain the water. Use plenty of sesame oil. Stir briefly to coat everything. Add boiled clams and sesame here! If you overcook the clams, they will shrink, so fry them quickly. The rice ball ingredients are now complete. Prepare about 1.5 cups of freshly cooked rice according to your preference. Add a pinch of salted kelp and mix. It looks so delicious that I want to eat it raw. But if you hang in there and make it into a rice ball, it somehow becomes even more delicious. For the garnish, prepare the salted bamboo shoots that you previously pickled. The salt is quite thick as it is, so I took it out and drained it earlier. Slice it thinly and serve with it, and you've got a spring-filled dish. These are Chinese cabbage flowers that I found in the produce section of the supermarket. The yellow flowers are very cute. The taste is very similar to rape blossoms, but it is less bitter. Make miso soup with eggs. A simple but delicious spring breakfast. It's a rice ball with lots of cabbage! The texture and flavor of cabbage is the best. This is pickled bamboo shoots that I learned from Eiheiji's book. If you are a fan of bamboo shoots, this is a dish you should definitely make at least once! Miso soup with Chinese cabbage has a nostalgic taste. I have fond memories of tearfully picking and eating the Chinese cabbages I planted the year before last when none of them turned out well. There is one recipe that reminded me of Chinese cabbage . Pien Lo is a Chinese-style stew dish that I read in a magazine column and became interested in. I would actually make it with a heaping amount of Chinese cabbage, but I think it would be absolutely delicious even if you made it with cabbage! All you need to prepare is a dashi soup made from dried shiitake mushrooms and our own cabbage! ! First, thinly slice the stem and boil it. Cut the leaf part into small pieces. For the meat, we prepared chicken thighs and pork loin. Place the meat on top of the lightly cooked cob. Place lots of cabbage on top. Don't hesitate to add more and more. DooooN!!! Add plenty of sesame oil and simmer. The lid should close at some point. And this is the deciding factor! Boil a large amount of Kuzukiri and wash it with water. It's shiny and looks beautiful. It looks like the lid of the pot has finally closed. Put Kuzukiri in this. Spread it generously and let it simmer for a while. Eat with salt and your favorite seasonings. Today I prepared salt, yuzu pepper, and chili pepper. When you open the lid, you can smell the scent of sesame oil and cabbage. It doesn't have any flavor on its own, so you season it in your own bowl and eat it. Although the soup stock is only made from dried shiitake mushrooms, it combines with the umami from the cabbage to create a very rich flavor. yes! This is the taste of ramen! ! The kudzu cutlets serve the role of noodles just right. The soup is packed with flavor and is the best. It's full of healthy ingredients, so you'll be happy to eat as much as you want. The salted bamboo shoots I made the other day were really delicious, so I added some Chinese cabbage flowers to the dipping sauce. Eat with a little salt. It's great because the bright colors last a long time. Today's lunch is a dish that uses the outer leaves of cabbage, which have a higher yield than the cabbage itself. I'm going to try making tempura bowl with boiled scallops! 2 tablespoons of sake 2 tablespoons of mirin 1 and 1/2 tablespoons of soy sauce 1 tablespoon of sugar 1 package of bonito flakes Bring to a boil and when the alcohol evaporates, strain the bonito flakes to complete the sauce for the tempura bowl. Squeeze it well so that the soup stock doesn't escape. This is something I learned for the first time after growing cabbage. There are more outer leaves on cabbage than I expected! ! about it. When you buy cabbage at the supermarket, what you thought were the outer leaves are actually the cabbage itself. The outer leaves are bigger and there are more than you can eat! ! With that in mind, we made extra-large tempura. I put tempura on top of rice. Eat it with plenty of tempura sauce. Today's miso soup is new potatoes and wakame. This is an extra large tempura bowl lunch that is a big hit with Toba. Two of these kakiage are equivalent to one outer leaf. It looks like we have a long way to go, but it's good because we can eat a lot! It's deep-fried for a long time, so it's crispy inside. By frying, the moisture evaporates and a fragrant cabbage aroma is created. But OKONOMIYAKI still remains in my heart. LOL This is soaked in a solution of salted bamboo shoots, so it has a slight scent of bamboo shoots! It's a pickle that feels like a good deal. However, the tempura is great. Any vegetable can be fried in oil and turned into a delicacy. Cabbage consumption is almost over. Only one ball left! ! (We plan to eat the outer leaves slowly.) Today, we will start by making a side dish using cabbage. Heat the roughly chopped cabbage in the microwave for about 3 minutes. Warm cabbage is especially delicious in spring. Crush 1 clove of garlic. 1/2 teaspoon of dashi granules 1/2 teaspoon of sugar 1/2 tablespoon of vinegar 1 tablespoon of soy sauce 1 tablespoon of sesame oil The cabbage stamina sauce is complete. Pour generously over warm cabbage. Adding a little spiciness will tighten it up. Today, I'll be thinking about my favorite instant yakisoba, ``Omori Squid Yakisoba.'' Fried noodles with squid and cabbage! When I was at home with my parents, I loved the immoral yakisoba that my father and I would eat half strained for a late night snack. Come to think of it, I thought I haven't seen you lately. I didn't know this when I was making this video, but when I looked into it, it was no longer sold! ! Looks like I'll have no choice but to make my own from now on. 1 tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce 2 tablespoons of your favorite sauce 1/2 tablespoon of soy sauce Appropriate amount of salt and pepper Once the water has evaporated, it's done. To finish, add bonito flakes and green seaweed. Don't forget the tenkasu too! ! A memorable squid yakisoba set meal. If you make it at home, you can make it as large as you like. The flavor of the squid and the sweetness of the cabbage transfer well to the noodles, making it delicious. It's a little different from &quot;large size squid yakisoba&quot;, but it's really delicious! Cabbage eaten with stamina sauce is so delicious that you won't be able to resist the strong garlic flavor. Shichimi goes especially well with this yakisoba. Please, try it. This is a story about when I did a little fishing. I caught a small fish from the river called &quot;Haya&quot; and it was very delicious. My father and husband took care of everything and all I had to do was drop the fishing line. Laughing Shishitos are slowly getting bigger. No harvest festival is complete without baking bread! Today, I'm going to bake hot dog buns, which is a classic at my house. I have written the quantities in the description section, so please take a look if you like. At first, mix it like this with chopsticks. Once it's formed to a certain extent, move it to the kneading table. Add butter and knead again. Knead until everything is smooth and combined. Roll it up and place it in a bowl, seam side down. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise. Use the fermentation function of the microwave to ferment at 40 degrees for about 40 to 60 minutes. When it doubles in size, remove the gas. Mix together and let rest for about 10 minutes. Once the dough has settled, divide it into 8 equal pieces. Today I'm planning on having a slightly smaller hot dog. For regular-sized hot dog buns, we recommend dividing them into 6 equal pieces. Once formed into a stick shape, it undergoes secondary fermentation. Once it has doubled in size, brush it with milk to give it a slightly matte shine. Bake in an oven preheated to 170 degrees for 13 minutes. While baking, prepare the ingredients. This is the sauerkraut I made the other day! This time, I made it with a slightly higher salt content to prevent mold from growing, so I lightly removed the salt. These are horseradish that I found in the produce section of the supermarket. We will also prepare sausage, which is essential for sauerkraut! Now the bread is baked. All you have to do is sandwich these together and the feast is complete. Sauerkraut is especially generous and absolutely delicious hot dog completion. It seems that my husband's brother went to experience strawberry harvesting, and he sent me strawberries that looked very delicious! Since there are two types, I would like to take the opportunity to compare them. The one with the stem on top is Oi-C-Berry, and the other is Beni-hoppe. I'll be having it with the coffee my husband made today too! It's a luxurious breakfast. Thank you. The horseradish in the middle makes it refreshing, and the rest is delicious. There's no way this wouldn't be delicious, right? Sauerkraut is well fermented. The gentle acidity and rich flavor make it perfect for sausages. I would also like to go to the strawberry harvesting experience where you can eat all you can eat fresh strawberries. Actually, I used to plant strawberries in my garden as well. But it didn't grow well so I gave up. Lately, I've gotten used to making bread. Bread breakfasts are on the rise. When my grandfather was young, he was fascinated by bread for breakfast. So I asked my grandmother to make me a breakfast of white bread. The breakfast was so delicious that he ate the entire loaf of bread in one meal. And it seems that my grandmother got mad at me. But ever since then, my grandfather's breakfast has always been bread. Before I knew it, the flower bed for growing strawberries that I had left behind my house had become a field of wild birch. Lol In that case, let's make it exclusively for wild vegetables! That's what we talked about. That's why I tried planting Gyoja garlic. It's around this time that you can already feel the early summer air. Please take care of yourself for the summer. Bonus: Okonomiyaki from Hiroshima, which I really wanted to try. This is delicious! ! My husband is in charge of making Okonomiyaki. This is a frying pan matching technique. Today is a huge success. lol I ate 3 balls of cabbage with great satisfaction. I hope to see you again in the next video.