- We're here tonight one of his unfulfilled to have a room full of his James Franco (cheering) (upbeat music) - Many of you might but Seth Rogen has a partner named Evan Goldberg. What does this that you were the (laughter) I assume he's like a eating a pastrami sandwich, &quot;Hey Sethy, yeah, I &quot;on page four, &quot;that the guys are friends, &quot;and then at the end of the (laughing) &quot;And also they should smoke Lisa Lampenelli's here! Oh I'm sorry, that's Jeff Ross. Jonah Hill, you are gonna touch on your but not enough people are gonna talk about what an (laughter) Quick reminder that tonight, James fully there will be six (laughter) - Sarah Silverman, she's hot for a comic, 'Cause she's not she's hot for someone her age. - That's right. (laughter) - Seriously Sarah, you were (laughing) And then there's Jeff Ross who's gonna fucking kill me later. (laughing) I never gave you this but you're actually the reason I decided to become successful. (laughing) I saw what you the living shit out of me. But seriously guys, pick up after yourselves? It's gonna make Jeff's Aziz, Natasha, Nick you guys are James's but I think that is so dope that you guys are willing even though no one knows - I can't tell if or the line to suck (laughter) Right before the show a gigantic fatty, the only way we could get Jonah actually his role in the new because the producers to be a Jonah Hill type. - We are very excited, an honor to introduce He's responsible, not but for every single person's Ladies and gentlemen the President of Hollywood. (applause) (upbeat fanfare) - Before I start to everyone up here, In no other place but Hollywood can these 10 people make and sleep with the kind (laughter) Seth Rogen, I put you on &quot;Deal with it.&quot; (audience laughing) And then I put Barbara and the world said no, two ugly Jews weaving I'd watch Seinfeld's web series. Jonah, I'm assuming you're People call me all Hollywood, do we really (laughter) Jeff Ross, hi, I'm Hollywood, I'm sorry we haven't been like Enterprise Rental I do not have a vehicle for you, now I come to you, James Franco. I know it hasn't always You overcame the crippling known as dumb face, let that interfere of making dog shit movies? I just don't know I gave you a chance make money, hang out and you said nah, I But I'll tell you what I told (laughing) Play ball, you squinty fuck. - Jonah Hill, I loved in MoneyBall, and I love you as Rosie O' Donnel in real life. (laughter) Jonah was born and and you can tell, he's big tits and an eating disorder. (laughter) Andy's comedy group is which is how each Nick Kroll, your fan must (laughter) No Nick, I love Kroll show, you're like a chameleon in that you have hideous skin (laughing) Sarah Silverman's had more ugly Kim Kardashian is here, I get them confused, narcissists riding Kanye's dick. (laughter) James Franco, acting, writing, producing, photography, is there anything you can do? (laughing) Now at first, I wasn't sure and then I thought and I was like oh, (laughter) James has a new reality show coming out on the Finally something TLC was like nah, we're good. - Wow look at this Deus, a Someone must have that this was a panel of 'cause you guys are (laughter) Thank you, it's a chicken-based restaurant, I researched that. The lovely Sarah (laughing) I hate to break it to you And you know who else My mom, I'm scared what's that gonna be like? (laughing) Roasted Sarah, okay, Natasha Leggero's here. (audience cheering) She's basically a but tonight we're getting (laughter) Here's one, Nick and Seth Rogen walk into a bar. They're there to pick me up, 'cause I'm an alcoholic who nailed you fuckers, suck a butt. (laughing) Is there a barista here, 'cause this roast just got dark. (laughing) My good friend Aziz's parents are from India, Hey Aziz, what's it like to have a unique perspective on what it means to be American (laughing) Jonah is so dumb me over for a dinner party, I overstayed my welcome and he pretended to be tired without getting You a passive-aggressive Expect letters Comedy Central, if you don't want controversy, you shouldn't have (laughing) Here's a fun fact, James James's dick is so suck it for like three and then it got way I was like, you want me (laughing) Hey guys, can you try and I'm trying to roast up here. I don't go down to James Franco's dick you never take me (laughing) See, these are Jeff Ross knows what I'm talking (hysterical laughter) You guys, this has been great, let's always remember this. - I do think one day, Meyer, Hot Dog Eater of (laughing) Also, I think it's so cool that some of you guys back in time to 1995 for (laughter) That's so cool! So many gay jokes tonight, wow. So many gay jokes about Franco. Apparently if you're and mildly cultured, Is that why the rest of you guys are so aggressively (laughing) You think if you read one dicks are just gonna (laughter) Franco, I don't but I'm glad you had me here, and later tonight to you coming up here and Being mildly funny Seth Rogen has written for you. Thank you guys very much. - First off, I'd like to thank my niece, Seth (laughter) Actually, Jonah almost because he had trouble changes sizes every three hours. Jonah, you're an amazing talent. I loved you as a Ku Klux When Jonah's agent told wanted him to be in Jonah was like &quot;you (laughing) Jonah Hill, Jonah - Spaghetti western. - [Jeff] Spaghetti - [Jonah] Oh my god. - I love you Jonah, - I fucking love you, dude. - Great to see Sarah So funny tonight, I'm for your success in Anybody see Wreck it Ralph? Wow. (audience cheering) Which is what guys do to your pussy, they wreck (laughter) Bill Hader, holy mackerel, Too bad you can't of a guy with two (laughing) Aziz, I wanted to make bombing tonight, but you were (cheering) And I guess you're now that Kanye had a real baby, (audience laughing) How you doing, Franco? You look like Johnny (laughter) You know Franco, I if you fuck guys or fuck girls, all I know is your when I went to see that I hope I wasn't because my girlfriend and I both wanna fuck you after the show. - They say I'm a pretty boy, and you don't know (laughter) I'm always type-cast you know, the handsome wizard, and handsome meth clumsy amputee hiker. (laughter) Just once, I'd like the diverse roles like the rat-faced attorney. (laughing hysterically) All right, so you guys Well James Franco being pretentious in his (laughter) And it's not just of himself Jonah's become Don't forget where Sure you're buddies with but I was your first Before you get too cocky, This is the End brutally ass-rammed and we both know the could keep his he was thinking about me. So all night I've listen to everyone's to be amused by the joke's on all of you. (scattered cheers) This is not a roast, most elaborate art (applause) I'm not the real guest of honor, these aren't real comedians, and we're not even (laughing) What you've seen tonight the sequester and and subjecting to the mindless, incoherent trashings miscreated, talentless I call it, Genius Unscathed, (laughter and applause) There's only one thing (cheering) That says &quot;James (cheering and applause) Thank you, good night.