This car shouldn't have won Le Mans Less experience, deemed illegal against it Mercedes, and Jaguar at the 24 hours of Le So how does a car that should have never lined Le Mans Gold? Well, to figure that out, you have to look Mazda starting making cars way back in the Well, sort of, they were mostly motorcycles Mazda-Go! But, over the next 3 decades, they began to And where there's cars, there's racing. Mazda's first foray into racing was in the or factory engineers, dealership in the capital of Japan. That's right, a group of bored dudes at a competed at the legendary 24 hours of Le Mans. But I'm getting ahead of myself, global these dudes just wanted to hoon some cars. One of those men working at the dealership and he and all his colleagues were captivated The Mazda Cosmo 110S. The Cosmo was a beautiful rear-wheel-drive engine, one that made nearly 110hp out of This was the first ever production rotary it was no slouch This was the perfect car to go racing. So Ohashi and his colleagues formed a racing They called it Mazda Sports Corner, and they and hit the circuit Mazda Executives to figure out what was going Ohashi. But, to everyone's surprise, they weren't In fact, they were pumped! It turns out, Mazda Corporate and the Mazda The Sports Corner crew wanted to race Mazdas, rotary engine was capable of beating the piston So, Mr Ohashi, now the racing manager for to assemble a super team, and take the Cosmo They called it the Rotary Avengers- no they real rotary superheroes like Kenichi Yamamoto, Mazda. And alongside him, Kunio Matsura and Takaharu 47 samurai team that developed the Mazda Rotary Together they souped up the Cosmo's 10A housings, resulting in that tiny 1.0L Rotary All that was left was to race. So race they did, and the race that really de la Route deemed one of the toughest racing events in And in 1968, It was more commonly known as They entered 2 cosmos into the race, followed from Mazda, along with a team of engineers. And as for the drivers? Well the first car was 3 veteran Japanese The other car however, was driven by an all with the 84 hours of Nurburgring 4th and 5th positions out of 44 cars! But, late in the race, the Japanese team went the car and retiring from the race Well they took that Mazda Cosmo across the It was a huge result for a rookie team, solidifying in racing. As for the Japanese team that crashed, well injuries, if they called our sponsor Morgan The following year they entered the same race This was the next evolution of the Rotary results, But a few years later, the Marathon de La And that was because there was a new endurance the crown jewel of motorsports - The 24 hours I think you can see where this is headed... Mazda's Rotary debuted at the 1970 Le Mans, saw their biggest breakthrough team to Le Mans a team you might better know as SARD, Auto Tokyo and the Sports Corner team 12A from Mazda Auto tokyo. And well, it was quick! But for Le Mans, it's not just about being 79 laps in they suffered transmission failure, And although it was not the result they wanted, here. But If they wanted to win at Circuit de la much as they did power. They came right back in 1974. With the legendary Yojiro Terada was behind Terada was one of japan's most recognized Le Mans the one he was named after And all of the doubters of the rotary engine But Mazda had been dealing with haters for And this time, they weren't gonna rush it Kind of like what we did with our Pluspy and Super comfortable shirts, hand drawn design, The best way to support Albon, after hitting Anyways, Mazda would use the next 5 years their strategy and get their drivers ready But they realized, in order to develop the to make sure they could win at home first a street-car based platform that they could And It didn't take long for that to pay at the 1972 Fuji Grand Prix, up compared to the ever evolving rotary. After they won at home, they sent the RX3 there have the model that would give them the confidence That model, was the RX-7 24 in Daytona and the 12 hours of Sebring.. But it was in IMSA that Mazda developed a They were winning races left right and center. In fact, The IMSA RX7 was such a capable platform, entrant for the 1979 24 hours of Le Mans last time was just a fluke, down the Circuit de la sarthe entering its This was Mazda's moment to prove that not engine, it was going to lay a smackdown on Those last 5 years of development, those race into this qualifying lap. And when the 252i crossed the finish line, As not fast enough? They set a time of 4:18.88s All of that build up, all of that anticipation, grid at le mans.. Now to be clear, slower cars qualified and race meant Mazda Auto Tokyo was going to have to The team was left feeling embarrassed, ashamed, Their dorito frankenstein of an engine once But if this is a story about anything, it's So the team went back to Japan, regrouped, And to show they were really serious, Mazda in Tokyo and made room for them at Mazda HQ From now on, this was Mazda's in house racing Mazdaspeed only But winning Le Mans was no simple task, the clock of the race, had just changed the rules, shaking This meant that there was a new top tier of Group C cars and frankly deserve an entire video.. had their sights set on the new Group C Junior It was a good starting point for them to build needed for the top Group C class dedicated prototype in time to race at le No more production cars based racers, this Mazda commissioned the design of the car to And mooncraft knows their stuff...veryyy well was the 717C rotary engine prototypes into the 1983 Le Mans the cars both finished the 24 hours and came Now before you scoff at that, that was 12th The 717C's came 1st and 2nd in the Junior And the cherry on top? None of the other cars even made it to the This was truly poetic justice. Mazda's first class victory and they absolutely The plan was working, and Mazda now had the The 717C was plenty quick, but it lacked downforce the car would fly off the track, an occurrence The team then learned that rivals like Nissan and V6 engines going to have to get much beefier to keep So the Mazdaspeed team developed the March would race at the 1984 Fuji endurance race and they had horrendous fuel economy to France an answer. But ditching the rotary wasn't an option the solution was actually the exact opposite plant working solely on the rotary racing and the two of them looked at each other and It was such a simple solution to their power much more reliable than turbocharging. But there was just one problem, and they definitely did not have company approval But their boss, Noriyuki Kurio, was just as So after the department closed for the day, after hours And as the engineers worked on 3-rotor power Mazda executives to approve a new racing engine. And by the time they finally got the official had one! They called it the 13G. And it was a peripheral port 3 rotor, naturally which made 450hp and revved to 9500rpm. To put that into context, the 13B at the previous And so now with a new powerplant chosen for By now it was 1985 and the 1984 Le Mans had Not only did they not win their class, they a much better chassis. So this 1985 car needed to be perfect. To do that, Mazda commissioned the legendary yes the same Nigel Stroud who was designing And together they developed the Mazda 757, powered of course by that 3 rotor engine and just 6 hours into the race, a transmission the side of the circuit. And then 5 hours after that, the gearbox failed They tried again in 1987, and while one car one finished 7th overall, winning the IMSA Mazda still showed tremendous promise, overall was another. The 757 wasn't enough to truly get the crown, So Mazdaspeed started developing the 767, a sponsorship deal with one of Japan's largest Renown. And with the sponsor dollars came 6 more engineers, Mazda HQ. Which meant that now Mazda had the skrilla It was the new 13j, and it made 500hp naturally But there's a caveat... the ultimate engine by Rob Dahm stans like 80s rotor's 450hp throwing off the balance of the chassis. So for 1988, Mazda entered two 767 and one And well, they placed 15th,17th, and 19th Better than a DNF, I guess? It was a step back for Mazda, and certainly So it was time to iterate and optimize fast. The next successor was the 767B which rocked 630hp. A big jump in power yes, but still heavy. And well, the results didn't really change They needed something bigger, something more So, in a full circle fashion, "Koby" Kobayakawa, rotary engine ever, team to produce an engine more capable than any It was smaller, it was lighter, it was more 13-B, G, or J... way more It genuinely seemed like some sort of wizardry, 3 spark plugs per rotor, peripheral intake But even though they were confident in their So they made a decision to detune those numbers With the engine done, now there was the chassis Stroud It was a carbon monocoque chassis, front mounted radiator to the rear ducts, cooling the engine and And a tried and true porsche transaxle married This new car was dubbed the 787, and it was come out of Mazda headquarters I'm sorry, did I say little? No, one devastating problem that Mazda had FISA had just announced an entirely new set And these regulations said all future Group in the highest class rotary engine was technically banned from But thankfully those regulations would be raced with the old rules later, for now, they entered the 1990 race And, you would imagine, with everything once looming over their heads, they finally shaped They came in 12th place. In the old 767B into? Well they didn't even finish the race. One car had an oil leak while the other had And that was it, it was game over for Mazda. They failed their absolute last attempt at racing. Obviously, there was absolutely no chance piston engine after how far they came to not give up. He told the team to continue focusing on developing And HE would find a way to get them into the But, even if he managed to get them in, this Losing at the 1991 Le Mans would mean failure So, Mazdaspeed prepped for the race by updating The team brought in Takao Kijima - the engineer RX7 first time ever at le mans! And they made a continuously variable intake a wacky looking system for the time, with more low end torque and then shorten for high They called this new iteration of the 787, And while the engineers were busy building with FISA was at its lowest in years. Manufacturers and racing teams just weren't confident they could deliver a competitive it wasn't just mazda affected, almost everyone So Ohashi-san along with other racing managers would be an embarrassment for the world's And eventually, FISA agreed. And a compromise was made. The new 3.5 engine regulations will be placed cars would be put at the front of the grid. the cars following old regulations will be a fuel restriction formula not required by It was a complicated solution, but the only the 787B to race The rest of the grid filled up as well. With some new cars, but mostly cars from the And well, most of them were more powerful The Sauber-Mercedes C11 had around 730hp 730hp as well 962c making 750hp The original 787, starting at 30th. A 787B starting 23rd and the another 787b It wasn't the best place to qualify at, And at 4pm, the cars crossed the line and Immediately the 3 sauber-mercedes C11s led behind in an effort to balance fuel efficiency The #55 787B ran as consistent as can be. The power to weight advantage and the fuel to be hugely effective through the field and found themselves in Then the porsche broke down and the #55 mazda All the while, the other 787B wasn't far behind, Then one of the Saubers broke down, taking That orange and green 787B now found itself Breathing down the neck of the C11 in first But that c11 was fast to catch up.. They wanted this so bad and for so long, there so they chased and they chased, waiting for And that's when dedicated preparation met With just 2 hours left, the lead C11 had pitted Their alternator bracket had sheared off and belt. The Sauber team tried to figure it out, but couldn't put it back together. And after 11 minutes of Sauber fussing around, lead. The crowd erupted. The absolute underdogs of the race, the little of overall victory for the first time ever. The Sauber never made it back on track, and cruised across the finish line. Not a single hiccup the whole race had the formula for endurance - consistency, Imagine that, a rotary engine. In the same sentence as reliability and fuel And while it was the first time for a rotary Because the very next year, the new regulations with the rotary engine was relegated to endurance But I'll tell you what, I know I've gone the secret weapon for Mazda, but that's That Mazda team, the one that started as a grew to a factory backed global racing powerhouse, Persistence. An unwavering faith that no matter how far stacked against them, they could win it all, Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, you'll love our Join us on Discord to chat about this episode, I'll see you in the next one.