"Oh hey! Didn't see you there. RUUN!" Okay, I don't have much time but long story time off jail for Halloween. Last year I gave advice on how to keep your But the cops, that's like children with So if I'm gonna protect my lawn this year, Plants Vz Zombies 2, the sequel to the beloved this time. The game was made by the zombies, and by that Plants Vz Zombies 2 has quite a number of With there being different worlds you can The levels are much more difficult due to Unlike in the previous game where you got only get plants in this game when you reach This leads to a lot more levels and a LOT I need to make sure my lawn can withstand I have to figure out what plants are the best So I guess I'm going to have to rank them. All of them. To buy us some time I'm going to print off that should buy as at least 20 minutes. Must be running low on cyan. Hey wait a minute this isn't a No Cops Allowed This is a picture of paper bowser from super That is the last time I buy a printer from Even if it was Dane: HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Dane: Sup Viddy: So you're a picture, huh Dane: I'm kind of struggling with what it Viddy: Oh it's no problem. Though Id love to chat, and have a sleepover of on the opposite end of criminal pursuit. Do you know ANYTHING about Plants Vz Zombies Dane: Plants Vs Zombies 2? You mean the sequel to the beloved tower defense game was made by the zombies. Viddy: Yep that's the one. Viddy: Here's the deal new best friend. In return for me giving you the gift of life, plants by usefulness in a borderline predatory defend my home from real life officers of Dane: ...seems fair. V: In Plants Vz Zombies 2, there's a lot original Plants Vz Zombies. There's plants that stop or play off of nullified by certain zombies, and each plant be upgraded with in game currency and seed Dane: The biggest difference though is in food ability. Which is like an ultimate ability that can Viddy: We will be taking all these in consideration we've decided to base our ranking on plant their level 1 versions since those are the So without further ado, Danerade and I, Dane: Am... I Danerade? Viddy: Yes Dane: Why am I named Danerade? Viddy: Listen Danerade. I brought you to life, and if I want to name your mom. Dane: The peashooter is a basic starting damage it's usefulness tends to fall off pretty throw stronger enemies at you earlier. Viddy: After a while the first zombie that and wasting your sun on something with as just isn't as worth it. Peashooter sadly gets outclassed in literally He's like a jack of all trades but like He's like a joker of all trades. Even with the burst damage from his ult, he Viddy: Sunflower is your main sun producer late game options, sunflower itself is never cost. In fact it reminds me of the song sunflower "I'm in love with the sunflower. It's good in the early days" Viddy: B-tier! Viddy: The Wall-nuts back again to provide Now THAT's economics! The Wolf of Walnut street if you will. Dane: Walnut's ability to be fully-healed food helps him out aswell. There are some zombies that can fully destroy our baby nut, but nut is overall a very useful B tier! Viddy: The Potato Mine is your first one shot little priority on one shots. I have repented. This time they are essential. They are quite literally the most important amounts of gargantuars, and other wacky zombos. The Potato Mine is a cheap high damaging explosive He'll attack when HE feels like it. He doesnt care if he dies or not. Unless you use plant food... over all just Easy A tier Dane: So the Cabbage pult is a bit different having resistances to attacks coming from SO for instance this shovel zombie is immune while the umbrella zombie is immune from attacks Not the one with a literal house on his head Viddy: Pults in general are better because directly block straight shot attacks, there straight shots like ice, graves and backpacks. Just like in real life. Me shooting a backpack. Viddy: RETREAT!!!! Viddy: D tier Viddy: Bloomerang is one of the most interesting With its name being a play on Boomerang and Dane: Bloomerang blooms Boomerangs at up to Each rang hits and then comes back for seconds. They do okay damage but it's fairly high being useful in a lot of later game situations. Unlike an actual boomerang, the bloomerang It just stays locked in the seed menu, full D Tier Viddy: Besties, Lettuce Pray. Iceberg Lettuce is a godsend of a plant. Its ability doesn't sound super useful with on it for a couple seconds. But it's real power comes with its plant iceshroom, and the fact it's got a sun cost Aka nothing! A tier! Dane: Look's like gravebuster took a trip Dane: Gravebuster has had more of a glow up slab. Gravebuster is a much more useful support being a lot more of a hindrance than the original. Viddy: It also had its price reduced so much B tier Viddy: The Twin Sunflower is like the sunflower (Say the sunflower exactly the same each time) was an upgrade plant for the sunflower, where own plant. It makes them a lot more useful from them Viddy: It's not the best sun producing plant definitely not bad and as Post Malone always "I told the Sunflower I was in love with Dane: THATS STILL NOT THE SONG! A TIER Dane:(In old times voice) Bonk Choy is quite myself Viddy apostrophe S Vids. Viddy: I concur Danerade my dear acquaintance. The Bonk Choy rapscallion likes to duel oncoming if I've got that right Danerade. Dane: (Still with voice) That's correct high damage output, he remains a pretty strong despite his lack of ranged attacks A tier, if I do say so myself. Viddy: Next up is Repeater also know as Peashooter Take what I said about repeater from last It hasn't really changed. C tier Viddy: Snow Pea, also known as Peashooter One of my favorite plants from the original The ability to do damage while also slowing In the original game slowing isn't super get. But in this game time is your biggest asset. Being able to stall for time to get more sun Pea finally be one the more useful plants When do I get to unlock it!?! Dane: Hello, Danerade here. Many of the plants from Plants Vz Zombies money, or event only seed packets. The event only plants we have no real way the moment. We also feel that spending $85 for all the The gem plants however can be obtainable throughout normally. While event plants will be unranked, and premium comedically put into the F tier. I hope you all understand our decision. Viddy - Onto the Pirates Cove (Edit in Kenral It does less damage than it's cabbage brother CRAZY in handy for helping perma cc scarier Kernalpults ult is also amazingly helpful No need to butter up this plant any more. It's going in the B tier. Dane: Snap Dragon is another close range damage guy a MINT! It's stank breath hits all enemies within Viddy: Though personally I think this guys I mean it's name doesn't even make any C tier! Danerade: (Optimistically) Power Lily gives useful and good support plant. (Serious) F tier Viddy: Spikeweed in this game gets... a little Spikeweed's pros: cheap, can damage multiple break barrels. Cons: Can only damage zombies when they are towards the front where the zombies that can whole lot of damage, and can't be placed this on WATER but NOONES EXCLUDED FROM THE C tier Viddy: Coconut cannon is a very high risk high cost of 400 sun. Dane: Though Coconut cannon more than makes for most zombies after a pretty fair recharge It's not a main damage dealer but can really as they come in a lot. In conclusion, the coconut gun fires in spurts. If it shoots ya it's gonna hurt. Viddy: Dear Cherry Bomb, I am sorry that I I misunderstood your true value, and was blinded time. Though I see now those are but blemishes compared of effect, and versatility. You rightfully deserved an A tier or possibly With your usefulness becoming even more pronounced I wish you nothing but my deepest condolences. Viddys Vids. .... S tier Dane: Spring Bean sucks. F tier. Viddy: Spikerock suffers from many of the Though exchange Spikeweeds cheap cost for Though I rarely find it's stat increases This used to be an upgrade. D tier. Viddy: Finishing off the pirates cove is threepeater. Also known as the peashooter 3. Threepeater is like three peashooters, and Doesn't really matter if you have three. d. If they aren't all in the same row it's three peashooters all at once, which... why would you ever do that? Dane: Great rhetorical question Viddy! There are actually some maps with extra win a certain number of plants at once. For those levels and in certain worlds where tracks or missing tiles space. It's still not great damage but at least D tier Viddy: Squash....yep it does that. *puts it in B tier* Viddy: Up next is Split Pea also known as Dane: Split Pea is another plant only really zombie and can be used on the mine carts to yander. Thats a D tier right there Viddy: The Chili Bean is another one shot, For the Chili bean to take effect a zombie Once eaten the zombie who eats it dies and lane behind it for a while. Dane: This isn't the most reliable one shot other effects that destroy plants besides So chili bean often gets anti-born before Though it does get points for the *sigh* funny Fart so silly and goofy Please like and subscribe. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! *puts it in c tier. Viddy: Torchwood found himself a bit redundant has its peas on fire. To make sure torchwood wasn't out of a job Instead of only being a pea buffing plant, instant. What the f__k. And Torchwoods ability to be everything doesn't It's role as a premium plant has shifted to being bought with gems, to money to gems to available with seed packets. It's premium but like not really? I feel like it SHOULDNT go in F tier... but 8:45 Dane: Next up is lightning reed, a low damage has a very long range being able to attack It's alright. Viddy: ITS ALRIGHT??? YOU'RE ALRIGHT!!!! I LOVE THE LIGHTNING REED. It is 100% my favorite plant in the entire Viddy: And sure on its own it's not very you can get a large number of them out and to set up a defense that can be so important. It's range also helps cover multiple lanes there is no zombie immune to it's lightning other attacks. Sure it may not have the best damage, but and look are all SO GOOD. This is what the Starfruit WISHES it could A tier Dane: Tallnut is an interesting case where Packing much more health and able to block jet pack zombies, and dodo zombies. Viddy: On paper the Tallnut is superior to it is. But in general we found it being hindered One being it's shared weaknesses with the nutcrackers but the other is it's sun cost Now that's not terrible, it's the same But for a whole row of these it'll cost This also has the more subtle problem of not as the other nuts. Which in this game where you have virtually crack in this nut . Though if you do have decent and helpful option. C tier Dane: The Jalapeno is a one shot that destroys ...Something alright there Viddy? Viddy: Dane, I think I'm going insane. There was this video from like 2016 of a guy and Jalapeno ams I can't find it. I can't find any evidence of it existing, Shows Dane for a second or two and then he Dane:....B tier Viddy: We're at the second pea of the west. The pea pod also known as the peashooter mini. Dane: The pea pod is an interesting plant. Where you start by placing one slightly weaker However you can stack more of these plants per row. Viddy: Its not the best for how expensive but for maps with the limited plants win condition, But so does the letter q. Dane: Melon pult, a strong splash damage plant Can be really good in levels where you can Nothing to joke about for the melon pult just Easy A tier. Viddy: Wintermelon, what Dane said but cold. S tier. Imitator Viddy: WoOOooOAH! The Lazar Bean be like sus! The lazar pwns all zombie nubs in its lane. The Lazar bean's ult be like. IMMAFIRINMYLAZAR Danerade be like SUSUSUSUSSUS XDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD Baby Nut WHATTHEFUUUUU Viddy apostrophe s vids be like Dane: Blover is a nice cheap utility plant It's alright but nothing that'll blow C tier Viddy: Citron is a lot like the coconut cannon, time but insanely high damage. The only downside besides the aforementioned when it attacks, it just does when it's So unlike coconut cannon where you choose this just hits 1 zombie and often times, not This guy can sometimes be a real annoying Show me smiling and looking really proud maybe Dane: BOOOOOOOO! Viddy: D tier Dane: E.M.Peach is a nice cheap utility plant It's alright but nothing too shocking. B tier Viddy: Starfruit is a plant that fires 5 star It's such a neat plant I hope that nobody 5 star in my face for comedic effect. Viddy: Dane we rehearsed this. You throw the meal... Dane: I don't get it? Is it like good? I didnt get why it was good in the original, Viddy: Dane, it's all good it's just a meal. Dane: Like what you said about lightning reed. Am I just not getting it, it can't be that Viddy: Dane it's okay. I'm sure we can just put it in C tier again. We're all good just throw the Dane: NO??? Where do we put this thing??? We both apparently underestimated it before. It destroyed my hopes and reputation! I clearly have to respect it, yet I can't Viddy: Dane, I have an idea on how to rank 4 out of 5 stars. Viddy: The Infi-nut is a low health translucent normal means and regenerates lost health over However it's true strength comes with its over the entire map in front of it. This barrier is crazy good because it stops and covers every single row! There are some levels where I'm unsure if The infini-nut clearly deserves an infinite Dane: Magnifying Grass, uh yeah I sure HOPE So the magnifying grass is a stationary plant coconut cannon. Viddy: However its beams are fairly weak compared It also uses sun to fuel it's attacks. So even though the magnifying grass isn't drain a hole in your metaphorical solar pocket. Like a solar tape worm, or like depression. D tier. Viddy: Tile Turnip lets you create a power The tile allows you to activate multiple plant a cool and unique ability. Too bad it's sun cost goes up per one you Inflation be damned. D tier Dane: Hypnoshroom is another one shot that not that one.Though this is one can be a bit get to eat it, as it tells the zombie to go They deserve it. And if you use a plantfood on it, the zombie fitness and becomes a sigma male. Who crushes all the betas in his path.. C Viddy: Sun-shroom went from a questionable It keeps its original gimmick of starting gets bigger throughout the match. Now for the faster levels of PvZ 2 this may food not only does the sunshroom give you Yucky teenage phase and grows into its chad This can help you save a lot of sun on sun-producers A tier Dane: Puff-shrooms were so good in PvZ 1 that They also did get buffed because you dont but that's BESIDES the point! They still cost less than the spit on my boot, Unless you happen to reset its timer with on the field. Then they are just better than ever. A tier. Viddy: Last time I kind of did Fumeshroom zombies being way more useful than I originally I'm sorry buddy, I won't say you probably It's multi-hit ability is also much more that show up so quickly. Though its damage isn't desirable, and its It's still very reliable for it's sun Im proud to say the fume shroom has escaped I know a thing or two about escaping prison. Cop 1: Houston we're gonna need backup Dane: The Sun Beam is yet another... bad bean. The sun bean is a plant that needs to be eaten drop sun as it gets damaged. It costs 50 sun. It's like planting a sunflower with extra F TIER Viddy: Glad to see planters is getting in The Peanut is the peashooter, wall version. The peanut is like Pokemon Sword and Shield. mediocre. One one end it is like 2 splitpeas, a terrible of a nut, an amazingly average shield, the I really like this guy, but his extremely higher sun cost of 150. At that rate you might as well just go tall of the damage of a SINGLE pea pod. D tier. Dane: Now dont take what I say out of context plant. It can steal magnetic items from zombies. B tier Viddy: Listen. I like chomper. I think he is extremely underrated in the the best plant out there. Some say he IS the worst which I completely coming from. Why the F__K would they make chomper cost He used to cost 5 DOLLARS! Honestly he should be worth the spit on my And Chompers even WORSE in this game with thing but also gives you sun while eating!?! EA WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU??? Dane: Lily Pad helps put other plants on the Viddy: Yeah Dane, if only your real life ipad Dane: No, I'm not throwing my ipad in a Viddy: Come on Dane it'll be funny. Dane: No, I'm not going to destroy my 300 You'd have to be some kind of stupid and Show ipad in my sink with B tier on screen. Viddy: Tangle Kelp is basically a squash for What do you want me to say???? D tier Viddy: Hey Nico wanna go bowling. Dane: I thought my name was Danerade. Viddy: *playful scoff* No Dane. I was trying to make a joke about the Bowling A very creative plant that resembles 3 bowling off the screen and zombies while getting weaker Also growing back a bulb if it doesn't attack the screen the bowling bulb just constantly Dane: OH its a GTA reference! Also D tier! Dane: Homing Thistle is kind of this game's spikes. Even though homing thistle can go on land, All of my favorite things have cat ears. If only they made a peashooter with cat ears B tier. Viddy: Guacodile is kind of like a jalapeno before it goes off. It doesn't instantly kill them it just harms Dane: Banana Launcher is kinda bananas! It's like coconut cannon but.... different. It's similar to the Cob cannon from the map, and doesn't do as much damage. Yet it still costs an insane amount. The cost is, dare I say, BANANAS! If you can get them down they are crazy useful, Viddy: "I have a potassium deficiency" Viddy: Hurrikale is kind of like a beta Jalapeno. Instead of killing all enemies in a lane it sets them back.. A bit. It could honestly be more useful than Jalapeno gargantuars, andit's cooldown time and price Though it's nothing that will blow you away. Oh wait it does do that actually. A tier. Dane: Hot Potato is a nice cheap utility plant It's alright but nothing all that heartwarming. B tier Dane: Pepper-Pult prepares powerful projectiles It's like cabbage pult but does more fire frozen tundra levels. Pepper-Pult's a Pretty Pleasing Poggers B tier Viddy: The chard guard's a defensive plant Instead of being a wall like our previous Chard guard just sees a zombie and goes "Get arms fall off even. Poor guy. That dedication, damage, and durability really Dane: Fire Peashooter also known as Peashooter and warms plants like the pepper pult. Finally a DECENT peashooter. Not a great one, but one thats not terrible. It must be my birthday. Oh yeah it actually is my birthday. B tier Viddy: Here we have a 25 sun Stunion plant. With its only ability to temporarily stun seem simple and not very stunning, But let . C tier. Dane: Rotobaga is just... JUST kind of a BAKA. I just don't get it. It flies over water but can still be eaten It only attacks diagonally like the bishop It's completely defenseless from the front, It's like a flying Starfruit.... (frantically) .D TIER!!!! A DANDELION! Must be the last one of the season! Viddy: Lava Guava if another one of those They honestly are just meshing together now. Lava Guava. It explodes fire that does damage and stuff. It spill fruit smoothie on the ground it slippy B tier Dane: Well you know what they say, float like That's from cars. When Doc Hudson explained to lightning Mcqueen, plant, that did more damage the farther back with saying the Red Snapper should belong Pixar sure was ahead of it's time. Viddy: Next up is the A.K.E.E. The Autonomous Katapulting Ejectomatic Emitter). Which means it attacks on it's own.. Good. It shoots projectiles, ejects projectiles You'll never guess what it does. Its projectiles bounce from zombie to zombie C tier. Dane: Endurian is a slightly more expensive The expense however goes towards offense with this poor guy a hug. WHich ends up working a lot better than the Viddy: Endurian sounds like Enderman. Dane: Viddy, what does that have to do with Viddy: B TIER!!!!! Viddy: Stallia is a free purple plant that It doesnt do damage but you know its FREE. You cant go wrong with free. I got stabbed once, and I guarantee the only C tier Viddy: Gold Leaf.... Gold Leaf creates a gold tile which is a type on top of it. Now thats not terrible, it could be pretty win conditions where you always have to keep Getting some sun from them sounds awesome! Well the devs decided "that would be TOO the majority of levels outside of the world AT THE END of the world. JUST ... PLANT... A SUNFLOWER!!!!! F tier THAT? Viddy: Okay, given our history I'd say it's They completely redid cactus with it first it was good for in the original games, instead spikeweed and lazer bean. It's weird but not bad. I feel like the cactus actually earned a promotion, conflict tier. Next up to the mic, it is Phat Beat. A reused concept now seen complete. The gloom shrooms gone, mislaid, retreat. They took its gimmick and hit repeat. A doomful tune the beats excrete. To send the zombies to their defeat. Through vertical lanes it keeps the heat. Though in some way it can't compete. It's damage is below the average. It can't outbeat the heat or power of a The main play style of this root, just simply Most typical strategies, wont see recruit, and this fool of a food should be C tier to Viddy: Phat Beat C tier Dane: Celery Stalker is the stalker that's Unlike... Terrance. Dane turns towards the window and watches Dane: Unlike Peanut Celery stalker is a more They hide underground much like cactus, but One rapid fires ora oras onto the trapped until the trapped zombie is disposed of. They truly make a great team, like Viddy, Viddy: Thats right Danerade, and like our Dane does surprised face and then an awww Viddy: Thyme Warps a plant that will not make It's like the famous broken clock expression. It belongs in the trash. Get a new clock. The Thyme Warp actually has a really cool Where it takes all zombies on screen and sends Really cool, could be a nice get out of jail defenses. Except... it,,,, also HEALS the ZOMBIES. ANNNND can only be used in Neon Mixtape Tour. Viddy: We dont want to make these nondamaging Or else who's gonna buy Chomper? I just dont get it, why do they make these by putting so many unnecessary restrictions Like i get why stuff like the Hot Potato, But why Thyme Warp??? It doesnt make any SEEE------ Dane: Electric Blueberry isn't giving us Viddy, where'd you go? Viddy: I audibly come into the room. Dane: What happened? Viddy: Dane. I had to go through the entire past up until Dane: Oh my god are you alright? Viddy: DANE, WHAT WAS I THINKING??? I PUT ICE SHROOM IN D TIER? Dane: Woah woah it's okay. Viddy: No Dane. STAR FRUIT... IN C??? Was I DERANGED???? Dane: Garlic. I can not think of a single scenario where lane in a level where there is not a zombie the garlic. Garlic stinks. F tier. Viddy: The Spore-shroom lives up to his name kill he speedruns making a monster in the These guys can be useful at stalling, and or there are a lot of weak zombies. Footage of making Spore shroom in spore Dane: Intensive Carrot makes sure that heroes Well one every 20 seconds, and it umm only And instead of just planting the plant again This thing would be better off being eatin There I said it! F tier! Viddy: Grapeshot? no thanks I'm trying to bring back prohibition. F tier Viddy: Well Dane we've reached the jurassic Where some of the most annoying levels and Dane: Yeah but luckily they gave us some of aka Peashooter Good version. It's a peashooter that fires slowly but after a hit. A tier. Viddy: Primal Walnut. It's Walnut, but better. S tier Dane: Perfume-Shroom is helpful. I'll give it that. The dinosaurs are some of the most annoying to charm some of them for a bit is nice. Key word there is SOME of them. For being the only answer to one of the most recharge for it to actually help. It charms all dinos in a row when activated rows? Sucks doesn't it, buy our powerups. It's like asking someone to mow your lawn It "helps" Dane: D tier. Viddy: Cold Snap Dragon doesn't even breathe He just blows vape clouds on everyone. Kinda rude dude. Gotta put you in F tier. For being a rude dude. Remember besties, dont blow anything into Unless its air kisses or darts. That'd be funny. Viddy: Primal Sunflower, it's sunflower Viddy: Primal Potato Mine. It;s Potato Mine but better. Probably the best one shot in the ENTIRE game. S tier. Dane: Shrinking Violet is an interesting plant. It shrinks zombies near it, significantly It's pretty much a honey I shrunk the kids Interesting concept, but I've seen better. and what's so wrong with being small anyways. Just because something is small doesn't Viddy blows Dane away Viddy: The Moonflower is the start of the to start. Because not only does moonflower act just shadow plants, giving them stronger extra And The Moonflower IS a Shadow plant. Regardless if you use the other shadow plants, give you infinite energy. IT's UNSTOPPABLE! S tier! Dane: The infamous deadly Nightshade. One of the most infamous dangerous plants It's alright. When it's not powered, It's downright It can hit stuff three times and then just He's done his part, he's gotta take a When powered though he gets NO BREATHER! He regrows his petals and can also fire them Which is pretty good damage wise, ESPECIALLY B tier Viddy: Shadow Shroom. The Ultimate life form. When eaten he poisons the zombie. Kind of similar to the chili bean, but instead just... damages it. It ignores armor but like.... Why not just use chili bean? The poison can spread when powered up but towards the back near your moonflowers, or when you can just use chili bean? Or like anything. Not even the chaos emeralds could help this C tier. Dane: Dusk Lobber is the REAL ultimate life This plant is a catapult that shoots splash When it goes into ultra instinct though it A whole column of these knuckleheads can put Dusk Lobber personally deserves an A tier. Viddy: Escape Root is a 50 sun plant that.... Oh. He's gone. Viddy: Grimrose is the final non-premium shadow SEAL OF ORICHALCOS. And send one unlucky zombie to the shadow Dane (In a Zomboss esc voice if you can): Your Grimrose can only defeat one zombie before And seeing you're out of lawn mowers. That leaves my Gargantuar to attack your house Get HIS BRAINS GARGANTUAR! HUH????? Viddy: That's where you'd be wrong, Zomboss. See when Moonflower is on the field. Grimrose can send 3 zombies to the shadow So that means say goodbye to your Gargantuar. And THAT GUY too. Dane: IMPOSSIBLE!!!! Viddy: Nothings Impossible when you're subscribed The plant is in A tier by the way. Dane: Next up we have the Gold Bloom. The Goldbloom... The doorbell rings You just keep talking, I'm placing bets Dane: The Goldbloom kind of like Jeff Goldbloom Viddy: Who's out there? Cop 1: Pizza. Viddy opens the door. Cop 1: ... with a side order of justice Viddy: Impossible!?! How'd you get past my home's defences. Cop 2: We paid the pizza guy 4 dollars to Cop 1: (optimistically) Yeah and I'm arresting Cop 2: Yeah and now it's time to find our Cop 1: We have reason to believe that the Unfortunately all records of this person are trial were coincidentally all blind. So we have no record of what this guy looks Cop 2: All we know is that he is located in of Plants Vs Zombies? You wouldn't happen to know about that would Viddy: Plants Vz Zombies?? What is that, a couch? Cop 2: No it's not a couch. He's clean. Cop 1: Let's take a look arounf around. Dane: And I'd say Electric Current belongs So this is our final tier list for Plants We really hope you liked the video we worked If you think anything could be different on make sure to like the video, and subscribe I love doing videos on Plants Vs Zombies and Cop 1: Hey buddy Hey guys.. Hey whatcha doing? No I don't need. No, I dont wanna go in the sack!!!! WHAT ARE YOU DOING??? AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA. *muffled scream aswell. Cop 1 and 2 just quietly and calmly put Dane Cop 2: Hey there bud let's just put you Yeah, just a quick sack trip is all. Just get in the sack real quick there we go Cop 1 and 2 come back upstairs with the sack, and take the pizza I'm eating but leave Viddy: Well, I'm no longer a wanted man, moved coconut cannon to A tier while I was I mean life could be worse. The cops come back and take my crazy bread. Cop 2: Man this bread is LUDICROUS EVEN!