I like reading the comments to my videos. I spend a minimum of one hour because I see them as very valuable qualitative What they like or dislike And the comment section is also But recently it feels like I'm being because it's getting really frustrating to Now, I had comments like this But in the past three or four months, every second, every third comment It's a bit frustrating, And it sometimes even feels like all these comments are being made by one the tone, and the naivety in these But it's obviously not. There's hundreds of different usernames. So today I decided to make this video, And a very simple and objective electric vehicles are not around the corner And why combustion cars are not But more importantly than this, what I want to see, what I want to do, is explain And that's because combustion The problem is something else entirely. Also, as as a petrol head, I do not is a permanent and future-proof However, what I do believe is that the future, are extremely substantial and complex, other things as well an aggressive push for mass electrification In fact, I believe that that is a bit To explain why it is so, we're going to have Yeah yeah yeah... You're coming with me as well. So this. Is my neighborhood. As you can see, it's similar to most in the sense that most people This means that a large amount of human beings And humans need cars. They need cars to go to work, to drive their kids And of course, they keep their cars in to be frank, there's nowhere else to keep them. Space is limited. The size of planet earth is fixed, but the And as you can see all these Refuelling a combustion car to 100% of its and gives you an average range of around 500 km. Now if the vehicle is a diesel, the And at the extreme end of the vehicles whose ranges easily exceed 1200 km Department of Transportation, the average American The average EU citizen drives 7,021 Now, if we take the average between this gives us 10,642.2 miles Now let's forget our optimistic Let's say that we spend seven minutes The end result is that the average citizen Or 3.99 hours every year, refuelling Now the average current electric 5.6 km of range for one minute of charging. But let's forget the average. Let's take this. A Porsche Taycan Turbo. It costs around 150,000 dollars, or 160,000 euros And while it definitely doesn't have an actual for one minute of charging if So if you're an owner of a Taycan Turbo you will spend 12.9 hours each This means that if all our cars are and all of our gas stations magically we will still need 3x as much This would lead to very large waiting lines on need more than 3x as many level 3 charging And as you can see, even this ridiculous scenario and turns every gas station makes mass electrification of And even if it was put into motion, the amount construct this amount of level 3 charging stations would cost more money than the combined And would likely deplete various Sure, it may happen in the long run, but So, building a massive amount of level Well that's not a problem, Well that's why we're here, that's massive concentration of Can you imagine all of these parking spots, into a little single car charging station. cables, labor and you know And all of them have to work all the time, because that's what you need to guarantee And I mean this is just one There's millions of residential Now, imagine equipping and converting all the into little charging stations. That's an even more massive undertaking than building three times more level Now, I know what you're saying. Battery technology is improving all the time. So, what I'm saying doesn't really matter. Batteries are going to advance really soon. It's all going to you know, happen. Yeah, technology is definitely advancing, but it's not you know doubling up in capacity It's advancing a little at a time And remember our whole scenario is based It will take some time for the Taycan Because after all, it took us around a century car from 26 horsepower in 1930 And I mean it took us a century to build the roads, the workshops, the gas stations. I mean, even something like increasing USB stick capacity from 8 Big changes take time. Now, electric cars may have their disposal compared to previous generations and they can use some of But their mass adoption is one of and it will likely take many if it ever even gets completed. During that time, combustion vehicles will So, saying that combustion technology and that talking about it and is like saying chairs are Most of us are sitting on them because And there doesn't seem to be a realistic The switch to electric cars on a global scale or because there's a push for it to happen or because Mr Musk makes an 0 to 60 times, &quot;zero&quot; emissions, futuristic designs, electric cars as the future of mobility feasibility and practicality of a So, that's the first half of the story. The absolutely giant logistics behind it But the other half of the story has charging times, and battery capacity. It has to do with something totally different And to explain it, we need to hit the road But before we hit the road, I'll your time to tell you that today's Now, Surf Shark is a virtual private network AKA VPN And this means that it's a service which service providers or third parties or whoever Let's say that you're at work or at a private content, sensitive content But you're afraid because the No worries. Surfshark is going to keep your stuff safe Or maybe let's say that a website is blocking Again, no problem with Surfshark you can simply virtually switch your And it works the other way around as well. Let's say you're travelling and want to access No problem, just switch your virtual Or maybe you want to watch stuff on Netflix Again, no problem, because Surfshark There's nothing you can't watch anymore Or maybe you are sick of personalized ads Again, Surfshark is going to get rid of this and And all of this while using the most modern VPN protocols, and without And here's the best part, Follow the link down in the description. Use DRIVING4ANSWERS as your promo code And you're going to get a discount of 83%, plus three extra months of Surfshark, If that's not generous. I don't know what is. Okay, we're officially on the road And what I wanted to show Yep, that thing, that big ol' chimney, You can probably already tell what Yes, it's a thermal electric power plant. Remember that residential area where I live? Well, it gets all of its electricity And you know how this power It makes it by burning this And this is coal And when you touch it, it gets your it gets the air you breathe in dirty too And it emits a lot of greenhouse gases. Now, according to the US Energy the average home in the States consumes Now, this figure is probably a bit lower in Europe fridges and what not Let's imagine the annual household electricity Now, depending on how you drive the Porsche Taycan Turbo consumes Let's take the middle point And if the global average of that means that the Taycan And remember in our scenario we replaced Meaning that now the average instead of 10,715 kwh each year. That's an increase of 33%. And to meet this increase in course have to increase our supply of electricity. Now here's a pie chart from the United tells us that 25% of global greenhouse gas production and that 14% comes from transportation Council of Clean Transportation and 45.1% of transportation belongs to The rest is freight trucks, cargo ships, and airplanes and even if we quadruple the energy density of batteries electric freight trucks , cargo ships and But we can definitely hope And if we do that, we will reduce the greenhouse That's a reduction of 6.3% Nice. But wait everyone has an electric car now. And remember that increases Which means that the greenhouse are going to increase from 25 to 33.25% An increase of 8.25% Now this isn't just electricity. As you can see, it's also heat generation And some of that heat generation doesn't come Maybe around 6% So by giving everyone a Porsche Taycan turbo, Nothing We have simply changed their source. Now I know what you're saying. Thermal electric power plants, that's a We're all about renewable energy now. Giant windmills and solar panels. Well to answer that here's a very depressed little graph from the International Energy Agency, A comparison between 1971 and 2019 And as you can see, in the 48 years that passed, we have increased hydroelectric Whereas, other renewable energy sources So all the pledges, conferences, statements presidents, prime ministers and parliamentarians have been transformed into 2.6%. That's how much we have increased our 85.9% of our energy supply still comes from non-renewable sources, but here's an In 48 years, we have reduced our dependency And this is because we have actually and slightly increased our supply of coal. Sure, we have noticeably decreased our supply of oil, but we just replace it with Natural gas. And here's the big problem. If your electricity comes from one of these, and as you have seen chances then your battery electric And that's just sexy marketing And that's because electricity cannot It has to be generated. And its generation causes See these mountains of crap that I'm sitting on? Well, that's just one of the consequences of the But even if we're to somehow magically abandon dramatically started increasing the Well, that's not without downsides either Because constructing renewable energy power plants wreaks havoc on the local ecosystem,, especially And this disrupts animal And also making new vehicles, And we need to make a lot of new electric cars, in order to meet the demand Now, this one is a bit controversial. The next piece of information Because different experts say different things But the average estimate seems to be that which is powered by non-renewable electricity, you need to drive it for at least 12 years until And this is because the production involves very big and very which generate a lot of emissions and And I won't even go into the life cycle of the Because all these pieces of information, they're actually missing the point And they're missing the point That's what science is like. You can change your data collection methods. You can change your sample size. You can change any variable And you can paint pretty You can make battery-electric or combustion cars, look as bad as you want to, and That's not what I'm trying to tell you. What I'm trying to tell you is this. Electric vehicles are not the solution The problem is us And our belief that we can solve problems created We're not addressing the issue at the core. We're simply replacing tailpipe the generation of massive amounts We're basically moving somewhere where we cannot see it and breathe it in But we're not addressing the core issue. The core issue is human greed and selfishness. Most of us aren't willing to give up our, For the you know, future A significant percentage of people isn't until there's a tangible incentive to do so. Such as increased gas prices. Our society rewards good deeds with good words But it rewards selfish deeds with tangible goods And short-term tangibility, Our cities, our social media, So instead of posting short-sighted What have I done today that has contributed If the answer is nothing, then shut the f**k up. Because talk is cheap. Words mean nothing. Pledges and promises mean nothing. What counts is measurable and visible action. Go DO something for the cause that you stand for. Don't comment about it. Try changing your lifestyle and your habits. And if you succeed maybe try Because until we change ourselves