American soldiers have been captured in Asia, camps run by the Axis powers. They know what to do when they become prisoners of the enemy as little information as of the war. They also know that the Geneva But they're about to find out in the harshest apply. Because their Japanese captors war criminals in human history - and These are some of the worst torture methods The Japanese gained a reputation as the the Second World War. Unlike in past wars, enemy's captives out of self-interest - treatment - the Axis showed no such mercy. And the Nazis reserved their worst treatment and conquered subjects that they deemed ran a massive network of camps that committed And it often began before the For prisoners of war of Japan, the capture was war, the majority of prisoners were captured in the incredibly brutal series of battles in the they would be transported to the large prison would have to experience extended, large-scale to their breaking point, with many suffering And this was the first preview of how little the In what would become known as the the surrendered American and Filipino troops their possessions. Any who were found to flagrant violation of the laws of war. From or injured - were organized into a march to camps Japanese troops would periodically show kindness, as officers being randomly executed. And as the receiving little food or water. Exposure to the And the slightest mistake or defiance meant death. Asking for water could get a prisoner killed with water. Anyone who hit the ground or slowed and by the time the surviving prisoners deathly ill. It's believed that as many as and as many as 650 American troops. The final metal boxcars to Camp O'Donnell, and those Almost a third of the massive march's captives This was the most famous death march These marches were a common feature of the Death Marches on Borneo taking place during 1942 atrocities suffered by Australian servicemen group of thousands - all of whom were transferred malnutrition and abuse from the prison guards, executions. But for those who survived the initial Because the prisoners of war weren't treated Japan was a relatively new empire, growing the war. That meant they continued to build up they had a ready and unwilling supply of laborers strictly prohibits prisoners of war being used window long ago. So the American and other Allied ironic ritual - building the very infrastructure And these workplaces were There were three primary areas where prisoners infrastructure - heavy-duty projects such as with the barest of possible equipment, and till fields that could then be turned with multiple men needed to lift very heavy dehydration - and the constant threat of violence And it may have been the Factory work was another common use for prisoners a factory job knows there are serious risks even usually required precise and a steady hand - forced labor practices meant that the soldiers, military supplies, were working with heavy and all the while facing the omnipresent threat of And the final labor position was one that Mining is a dangerous job, and everyone trapped deep underground. The job is risky unfortunate POWs tasked with keeping Japan faced with a much worse scenario. Mining being lowered into the mine in an iron and the ore was almost unbearably hot. It was wear down a laborer - and that meant instant But it wasn't the work detail the prisoners It's a common thing in prisons - One might be just looking to punch in and he won't cause you trouble if you don't cause and you can get a few extra privileges if you take out that frustration about never making the their way around the guards, but all of them are rights of prisoners - even if they don't always there were no such regulations. In fact, And that encouraged monsters Okay, not exactly a terrifying at the nickname of Mutsuhiro Watanabe who served at multiple military internment camps of prisoners - including Olympic runner exposing much of Watanabe's crimes after the war. and believed that creating fear was the most his extreme punishments for minor offenses or no was tied to a tree for days as a warning, and in outdoors wearing only a single undergarment, And at times, the punishments resembled Zamperini received a special kind of torment of being able to torture an American hero. At one a race against a Japanese officer. Coming off a compete - and was promptly beaten. In a later the film adaptation of Zamperini's ordeal, the work duty by being forced to lift a heavy wooden he would be shot. The ordeal only ended Watanabe enough to begin beating him again. the bounds of acceptable wartime behavior - This was all standard-issue behavior for Imperial Japan - but they had far worse in Interrogations were a common part as the captors hoped to get whatever information usually a pretty routine affair - the interrogator only the limited information they have been told exhaustion will win out and cause the captor to resort to any extreme measures because But that wasn't an issue here. Japanese interrogators were infamous for hoping to break them more through pain and This included pulling out fingernails, or using larger risk to the victim. The soldiers would turn on the water until the water flowed back out simulate drowning, but it put the prisoner The goal of those interrogations but alive - and ready to divulge important The Japanese army was infamous for mass prisoners of war not surviving to the to die was simply to not be useful to the or collapsing during work duty, usually meant stomach. But that wasn't the case for those caught planning an escape. They wanted them And they wanted everyone to watch. The executions of POWs and other prisoners were with many reports saying that they the latest uses of this infamous the victims were simply nailed to anything wooden boards, or electrical posts - and left or exposure. This wasn't the only case where the But other cases displayed an Hanging is one of the most common execution quick death via the neck-snapping. That wasn't instead preferring to let people the target would be hung by something the tongue - and would be left to hang until the A similar tactic took advantage of nature. One of the most disturbing Japanese torture rural prison camps and during marches. Bamboo sprouting several inches per day and can be place the captives over a bed of sharpened bamboo first causing painful wounds as they grow, and them. It was one of a number of brutal but slow However, it wasn't the soldiers who delivered the One of the most infamous names of the war was sadistic torturer who took Jewish captives twisted experiments on them. He killed scarred and forever changed. He became disappeared without ever facing justice. scientist of the war. A collective of twisted This is the terrifying story of Unit 731. Officially named Manshu Detachment 731 and officially a research division specializing which were outlawed under the Geneva Convention. and they were no doubt hoping to unleash new and forced to invade the Japanese mainland. But when research is key to ensure the unit didn't And they had plenty of unwilling subjects. The unit actually preceded the war, with Japan weapons - and deciding this obviously meant that their research into it. So in the early 1930s, for war - authorized the military unit and set during the Second Sino-Japanese War. This camp was prisoners, and they were subjected to starvation It was just a small preview awaited the prisoners of war who found The Unit continued its experiments, who found looking at details of it "unpleasant". though, and a side division codenamed was still created. And there seemed to be no the unit - performing experiments without even for any scientific benefit. While developing new weapons, others just seemed And many of the experiments As anyone who has gotten their vaccines knows, a syringe that makes the difference - and often death. This was during the days when blood and Japanese scientists were running short on to see if substitutes would suffice - so they gave the two didn't mix, and the patients replace plasma with sea water - and the But it was far from the worst The Japanese were interested in biological test how dangerous specific diseases were was repeatedly infected with syphilis and gonorrhea, through various disturbing means. While both the Japanese weren't interested - the population and cause horrible But it was far from the worst use of Sexually transmitted diseases could be tested came to fast-spreading diseases like cholera and bred fleas that were infected with these diseases, China. Sometimes, these plagues would decimate malnutrition due to the war and occupation But disease could only do so much. The Japanese Much of Unit 731 was seeing just how much the test subjects, this was the perfect time to see involved new technology. They were curious about they put prisoners in high-pressure chambers suffered fatal injuries. A similar experiment until their bodies gave out in a twisted And the same went for weapons The Japanese military was testing a large array preparing for, and the favored testing method use the weapon on them. This included grenades, chemical weapons, shrapnel bombs, and even data on whether the weapon would be effective in they're dead", which makes it feel more But other experiments seemed to be For those prisoners taken into a their death was likely to be slower and prisoners experienced were repeated exposure waiting to see how long it would take to of poison imaginable was tested on the captives, and heroin. One particularly twisted experiment victims to see how it affected them and how long dehydration, where the subjects were deprived of Other experiments were designed to see how much During the brutally cold periods of the cruel frostbite test, where they would dip their appendages into water and allow a stick and attempt to break the limb solid. This was overseen by Amy Engineer Hisato experimenters in the unit. After this part, the Most of the experiments were designed to end in death - but some dragged out One of the most feared fates in Unit dissecting a living subject. This is a highly nevermind humans. While racist doctors procedures on slaves without proper anesthetic, of seeing how long the human body could And these experiments pushed While some of the most famous victims the vast majority of prisoners at the facility large numbers of women and children. None of which included whole organs or limbs being removed This included having samples of the liver or even link the esophagus with the small intestine. in a surviving patient, naturally - but there And sometimes, an experiment Unit 731 had a particular interest in pregnant development - which included infecting if the disease could be passed from mother to children were not spared from sadistic treatment, and that included the unborn. Details of but the atrocities of Unit 731 were considered And even as the war was coming to As the Japanese became more and more desperate, cruel behavior on the battlefield. One of the the Pacific theater, where supplies Japanese officers reportedly would select The prisoner would typically be slaughtered but in some cases meat was sliced off a living desperation, some officers began to like the And towards the end of the war, the Japanese seemed to be ready to just The Japanese would load as many POWs as where as many as 1,600 men would be packed ships would then be sent to other by friendly fire - sinking the entire ship the men trapped in cages on board would be would often respond by covering up the cage And the true horrors of the war wouldn't When the Japanese were forced into unconditional did it become clear the terrible shape most of hard labor, abuse, torture, and experimentation the liberators, in a similar way to the shock Nazi camps in Europe. The total of the dead as documentation of the countless Chinese 27,465 US military personnel were captured by compared to 93,941 US military members captured Needless to say, there would be payback. In the aftermath of the war, war to make the architects of the Axis Powers which targeted the worst Nazi war criminals, got of the Japanese forces' top criminals - and Military Tribunal for the Far East had a dating back to Japan's 1931 invasion of Manchuria. lieutenants were dead, here current and And many of them met the ultimate fate. The trials lasted until 1948, far longer than criminals were executed. Most famously, this Hideki Tojo. However, it did not include United States intervened and kept most of those the darkest secrets of World War II. The true those who found themselves in the captivity of Want to know more about the darkest secrets of To Nazi War Criminals After World War II" for Water Torture - Nazi Camp Experiments"