The temperate regions of our planet were once of many different species, stretching across But of all the biomes of Earth, these forests the developments of mankind. And yet they are still etched in the psyche Falling leaves, bare branches, blossom and behaviour of their trees. And within these regions are the tallest and These are the woodlands of beech and cypress, redwood and willow, maple and oak. These are the Earth's temperate forests. Trees have colonised the globe. Occurring in both the tropics and temperate upon the face of the earth. Their ability to grow so tall is the result block of wood, which first appeared in plants Lignin provides structural strength and so its structure outside of the growing season, The following year the plant can then build that, and so on. They are the longest lived of any lifeform on today believed to be over 6,000 years old. For the longest time, conifers dominated the Known technically as gymnosperms, they have evergreen and reproduce through exposed seeds This dominance would eventually be contested, In the Cretaceous period, around a hundred as angiosperms began to grow in significance. Because of the more efficient and rapid means were more able to adapt to different climates, and so went on to dominate all but the boreal And so we have today the two basic types of known as softwoods, and angiosperms, the flowering Broadleafs are often mistakenly referred to their leaves in winter. While this is true for almost all species and tropical areas retain their leaves year Temperate forests require plenty of rainfall where there is year round rain. They are distinguished from tropical forests winter temperatures that can often fall below So the correlation between the areas of temperate Humid Subtropical, Oceanic and Continental be found naturally dominating these areas. Where the temperatures are warmer, broadleaf As temperatures cool, coniferous trees steadily coniferous forest dominates in the form of The southern fringe depends upon location. In the Mediterranean, forests grow in upland during the dry summer allow mainly coniferous In China, the deciduous forests blend into On our Holdridge Lifezones chart, we can find band and to the right, where moderate to extensive In general, cooler temperatures permit forests tropics, owing to reduced evapotranspiration. As just mentioned, cooler or warmer temperatures characteristics of forest, as does the variation We can break down temperate forests into roughly - The first type is the classic temperate North America, Europe, Northern China, Korea year-round rain and reasonable temperature - The second type is the mixed broadleaf and of the broadleaf type just described, and and the boreal taiga. - The third type is mostly coniferous forest like in the classic broadleaf, but where summer These occur along the north to mid Pacific areas of the Mediterranean basin. - The fourth type are the subtropical forests China, where warmer temperatures combined forests of both coniferous and broadleaf trees broadleaf and mixed of more northerly climes. - The fifth type is... Australia doing its own thing, once more. This continent is dominated by a single family, of the substantial climatic variations found in character. - The sixth, and final type, is where rainfall the only type outside of the much more well Similar to its tropical brother, life is abundant and the forest floor being thick in undergrowth, Being relatively rare, they nonetheless occur the Pacific North-West of the United States Zealand being the most famous. The structure of a temperate forest is not looked at in Episode 1 of this series, where where most of the leaf growth is. Then as we descend, we pass through the darker In general, the boundary between the canopy the tropical rainforest. Depending on the thickness of the canopy above, bare, or covered by low lying shrubs or ferns. In deciduous forests, where the leaves are floor, and their decomposition provides an ecosystems within the rich soil. Coniferous forests, by contrast, have mostly ground acidify the soil, preventing the growth So where in the world do we find temperate The vast majority are in the Northern Hemisphere, and East Asia, with much smaller areas along the Caucasus, Chile, Australia and New Zealand. Starting in South America, and most of Southern Southern Beech, Pine and local species such Being on the western slopes of the Andes, winds that are lifted up by the mountains, As a consequence, the Valvidian Rainforest wide central part of this band. Skipping across to Australia, and the area of Victoria, the coast of New South Wales, This is dominated on the mainland by the Eucalyptus in fact some stands of the Regnens species trees in the world. The western part of Tasmania is also host Beeches dominate over Eucalyptus. In New Zealand, no Eucalyptus are present, of both islands are again dominated by Southern local species such as Kauri and Rimu. The western coast of South Island receives here, with many species not found anywhere Moving into the Northern Hemisphere, and we continent's natural vegetation is forest are exempted. Most of this natural forest has been lost in this continent, but that which survives deciduous species. Northwest Europe, including the British Isles, was once completely covered in mixed forest, natural woodland despite extensive deforestation These woodlands contain a host of species, and yew, but beech is the most common. A sliver of south-eastern Norway and southern temperate forests in Europe, where north of Southern Europe contains forests of a different conifers or dwarf forms of the larger deciduous Much of Portugal today is extensively covered spanning decades, after prior centuries of up the largest portion. Northern Spain has beech and oak dominated northern coast, while more isolated patches and juniper. The forests of Italy, Greece and the Turkish as the coasts suffer too much summer drought In upland areas, beech, oak, pine, spruce countries otherwise thought of as being rather The Black Sea coast of Turkey is extensively Caucasus where a mix of oak, alder, fir and The Balkans and Eastern Europe are the most with a mix of oak, beech, birch, pine and These forests continue east into European Russia, where the harsher winters push the dominant species toward deciduous along with coniferous pine and spruce. This mixed forest runs east for thousands forest to the north and the steppe grassland In the middle of Siberia, this is really the but this map shows it as mixed due to the We'll talk more about this deciduous incursion In Asia, most of Eastern China was once covered of high populations in this region has resulted or urban development. So now only highland areas of China remain especially in the south west. In the south the forests are broadleaf evergreen forest, while in the north, there is a mix In terms of species, maple, oak, fir and larch forests are highly diverse with no particular The native and unique Gingko, which is neither class of its own, is planted extensively in Bamboo forest is also present in mid-China, the Giant Panda. Although it should be remembered that bamboo grass species. Because of the need for fuel during the cold most of Korea's forests are gone, but at alder, birch and pine. By contrast, the mountainous topography of are still covered in forests. Species vary from laurels, cedars and cypress cold north, where oak, birch, beech, maple That last species is, of course, famous for is nationally celebrated. In North America, the eastern half was once forests, but centuries of human development low lying forests, in the same way as Europe In the North-East, mixed forests of spruce, winters, while further south, oaks and hickories As we travel west, and annual rainfall reduces, with natural prairie, until only grass remains. The prairies act as a natural barrier to tree species the western part of the United States to be In the Rockies, pine and fir mix with aspens the drier hotter summers in lower lying areas. For reasons which appear to be related to coastal forests, from British Columbia in the uplands of California in the south. In the Pacific Northwest, pine, spruce, cedar, extensive forests. On the exposed Olympic peninsula in Washington, rainforest. Oak forest is present along many of the lower is more famous for the other kind of trees Unique climatic conditions allow for the growth and Sequoias. Both species belong to the Sequoia family, slopes of northern California, while the western Giant Sequoia. Growing perfectly straight, up to 115m (379 on earth, as well as among the oldest, with To be among these giants, as I have had the The Redwoods are a testimony to the power a colossal scale. The traditional four seasons of Western and behaviour of the broadleaf temperate forests The flowering plants that are these trees in spring, leaves and fruit in summer, and as the fall in North America, directly named Temperate woodlands support a variety of well-known deer and wolves, down to foxes, stoats, rabbits, Bird species are abundant, as one would expect these species are mostly seasonal, being mostly cold winters for more tropical climes. Of all the biomes on earth, the temperate by humankind. Deforestation of North America, Europe and areas over seventy percent. The British Isles was heavily deforested at Romans two thousand years ago described a A large part of central eastern China has that botanists are not sure what the natural historical records point to answers on this. Such deforestation has been the result of agricultural purpose, and the need for the and even shipbuilding. We can lament the loss of these forests, but that the very nature of our civilisation was We live as we do today in the developed Western price of those lost forests. If there is any consolation in this, then for they adorn the streets, parks and private daily by millions. The tree species within these forests are anywhere on the globe, and for anyone who Asia, these have become a part of our lives And because of that, I thought I would, in And that is the temperate forests. I hope you enjoyed this, the showcase episode If there is one video I would like you to your friends and fellow students if you can. Also let me know your thoughts in the comments, on, so you don't miss future episodes. Thanks again for watching. I'll see you in the next part of this series - the northern forests of the taiga.