[Music] Aloha! Let's get you to Kauai, Hawaii's Garden the best of the Hawaiian islands, the must-see do it justice. But if you don't have that kind just three days and I'll show you how I did just to stay for seven days, ten days and possibly the where I ate, where I hiked, where i sailed, and what i love easy to navigate, friendly Hawaiian isle. First a little geography. You'll arrive at the to Kapa'a, centered between the north and south the island, known as the Coconut Coast, is a an abundance of roosters, you won't miss one of Princeville and a lifetime supply of beautiful perfect Old KIaloa Town, food trucks galore, you'll board boats cruising the NaPali Coast, and Waimea Canyon. The northwest side of cliffs of the NaPali Coast. Your car can't My journey to the Garden Isle started at LAX keep a pen close for the arrival questionnaire landing. The small Kauai airport is easy to been easier. Here's another tip: always check through your airline or another membership In 2015 Airbnb changed the way i travel forever. all over the world. From London to Rome, is no different. I rented an Airbnb at Aston poolside condo couldn't have been more perfect Centered between the north and south shores, Beach Club, with the Coconut Marketplace and all checked all the boxes for me. This place offered any of the hassles. A worry-free experience Day one and the roosters make sure right out my door. When visiting a place for the as possible. No planned excursions, no places the highway, stopping briefly at a lookout for My first stop on the North Shore the Kilauea Refuge. Lighthouse and refuge tours may be limited your trip. But open or not, make sure you take the The setting is spectacular. From high above as you look out toward the lighthouse, perched spot a red-footed booby, an albatross, a Hawaiian This is after all a humpback whale sanctuary. On also known as the Hawaiian goose, is Hawaii's got to be good luck. Continue along the most roads lead to or end at a beach. As a gulf me with envy, and Kauai has more than its share. highway past two Hanalei lookouts. At the valley While at the bay lookout you'll get an The North Shore can be rainy, but five minutes of rain here was all I Make your way over the Hanalei Bridge to Hanalei Continue along the highway to Wainiha Bay Park, with great views. The North Shore gets about 85 winter months, especially February, aren't too but summer months, that's a different a day exploring kauai's north shore, but if Try to make it to Haena Beach Park. There's a lot in front of lush mountains, while lifeguards watch in the parking lot. Just across the street is the Maniniholo Dry Cave. With a sandy floor and high arena could host one of Hawaii's larger lauas. thing of legend. Choose yours: a secret escape or home to a fish stealing evil spirit. On the way back make a quick stop The aloha sign, shaped out of Heading to my Airbnb i stop at Kealia It's an expansive beach, one with strong it's not my last beach of the day. Man does not live by apple bananas and peanut and lots of great sights this day means I'm Beach Club, just yards from my home base Kauai with live music, cool breezes, Kona beer and a near perfect day of exploration. Now to bed. What'd i tell you? Day two. Time to hit the river. And i i planned two paid excursions First up the Wailua River kayak and The meeting place? A snorkel shop So close to my door, I couldn't be late i'll just give it away now, this was a yes. A great hike, yes. Beautiful scenery, experience thanks mostly to Zach, our guy.It's solo travel has benefits. Case in point: This time even paddling isn't required. The The Wailua River is on the east side of the island van from our Kapa'a meeting point. To get to of paddling and a one-mile hike. You'll cross the walk riverside across a boardwalk and cross a glimpse of majestic 120-foot-tall Secret Falls. it's going to fill up fast. First up: a Hawaiian pineapple and water. Then it's time for the king [Applause] Make no mistake, the water it's kind of hard to breathe. But it's Our return trip, Zach filled Almost all this water is coming from the middle for the wettest place on Earth. You guys seen that he used to tie his raft together when It's also considered a canoe on the canoes by the Polynesians [Laughter] I make that noise and he gets hungry [Laughter] This five to six hour Wailua River kayak and at 7 a.m and 12 30 p.m from the snorkel shop Islander. If you do go with Rainbow Kayak Tours He's got a few hundred, shares them freely When a good guide recommends a place to the Fish Express at Lihue. It's a grab and it's all I needed to fuel my afternoon South Like most everywhere on the island, Just before you get to the pull off the road and take in the It's an oddly peaceful place with To visit Waimea Canyon you don't pass through Instead when you park in the canyon lookout lot just shoot a photo of your tag with your phone so Put the receipt in your car window and you're good that allows you to take in the 10 mile long, Canyon was formed by the Waimea river as one of the wettest places on earth. You could but my aim this day is to get to As i make my way back down the coast something as a top roadside attraction for me. It's Hawaii. I make it to an expansive South Shore At this wide treeless beach providing a great free sunset show [Music] Kauai, like a lot of Hawaii, shuts down diner served at Bobby B's, a pizza place My day starts early so bedtime Day 3: the Napali Coast. No Why so early? I have to get to Port Allen on the this case catamaran. From Kapa'a it's 23 miles or early morning traffic delays and there's ample After a captain's briefing we walk to the dock This is Holo Holo's five-hour Napali Coast snorkel and sailing tour and it's the only First up we snorkel at a coral The water was cold, but not The company provides snorkeling equipment With little wind and calm seas the sails Making good time, we reach the end of Time for lunch: sandwiches, veggies, a The cruise also offers a continental breakfast. turns to whales. And on this near perfect day then more whales. With a little encouragement you bring binoculars or a zoom lens. You don't a few Dramamine the night before and morning of cruise leaning over the back of the boat. Here's You can burn too much time searching Hawaii If you never get motion sick don't risk it on Like yesterday's waterfall hike this was of a Kauai day. The catamaran was sleek and fast, the arrival directions clear. Just a [Music] You guys want to see a Pterodactyl? Thank you. The second part of my final day I follow the South A bit of time travel to Hawaii's plantation past. i spent some time in the shops and ate more truck villages. [Music] Keeping with the of the many farmers markets on the island, And what's Hawaii without an Elvis tune? [Music] A free hula show at Coconut Marketplace was the the island. The shopping center has a supermarket walkable for me. My Islander Airbnb is just yards photographing flowers and trees and enjoying some course there is no way my last night wouldn't [Music] So you see it can be done. You can see a my itinerary. It's what I found interesting, what read reviews and then see Kauai. It will [Music]