The balance changes in Wave 5 have made so many all of them. Wow, look at the variety of combos to be. The best combos didn't really change too is optimal now. So, I'm loving this. Okay, oh, I couldn't get past it. But look, I'm on the streetle, leaf tires, and the paper glider, I love this. I love that full Animal Crossing can lot more exciting combos. I'm using 12 different different vehicles and it's gonna be great, it's see what results I get, and see if I can find the scientific method, guys. This is how we gonna be using the Yoshi tier of characters. the reason is because everyone uses Yoshi, I've used Peach just to not use Yoshi. So, oh, this So, yeah, otherwise it'd be going on for too long, yeah, there's gonna be so much variety in Ah, poor Goombas. Oh, that sucks for them. all four people are right in front this is great. I could actually get Okay, couldn't do that properly. What do we got? to practice Daisy Cruiser a lot, but if we get all. I'm gonna give the full Animal Crossing a 10 that. That's so boring. We have two Yoshi Teddy just like, &quot;Ah, we're just playing the combos we which, by the way, is also optimal. That's just full Animal Crossing optimal. Like, that is just close to the pinball. I'm really close to the that was really bad. So, yeah, I'm really good because now I can switch it up without Let's lay these inside where no one can see them. I hate the fireball. I don't even like being somebody, I just feel like that was complete luck you just spray attack and it just hits All right, let's try to get some distance I'm lucky no one has an item because people are gonna get their items and get some defenses. One banana in fourth? Ugh, everyone's right here. I can pass one person I want a double item box again, that Okay, watch, I'm gonna somehow get trailed Oh, no. Okay, I would have thrown that red but unfortunate. So I'm in second place This mushroom is cool for recovering, is better on Waluigi Pinball because all I can really do is get back up to speed with after the glider because that's the shroom It's so not worth it to use it at an optimal Okay, so I'm in third place. I think I can do--I'm to go wide because it's lap three and I'm not what item I get. Okay, this is good. See if I can that's fair, that's fair. That was a good No! I still ran into it! Oh my-- that was so that race. Oh, I finally got a decent item to it up. This combo sucks. So, we're on Tanooki glad this is optimal too. I'm also on GLA tires, but one of the things I'm going for with all of at least look good. And so, that's why I've fitting for this combo, but I don't know, you think that looking good is really fun. So, that's There's so many good characters, and there are so but because there are so many of them, then I and you don't really sacrifice your stats when you and okay, I don't--this is probably not even an one of the worst tracks in the game. I think it if they just added more, like, there's that one where you can take a glider. And that is just the way, and there's not really anything to do on I didn't successfully dodge the cows previously, the game. Even Baby Park has more shortcuts per it's simple, but it adds an element of absolute doesn't even have. So, like, this track is--I weird because it's Mario Kart, but you really just this one. I don't know. Maybe I'm being too harsh Yes, Kamek! I'm so happy that at least one of Wiggler and Petey Piranha are not that good. I but I'm so happy Kamek is good. And I'm using red I'm all for color coordination here. It's one of so many optimal combos that, you know, why gives you a speed boost, so that always helps. All Lost some speed there, good thing I had extra way to the end of lap two, then I might have get so big, because people at the front Get hit on the boost panels. Oh, that was great! Oh no, no! Okay, okay. Hitting that red mushroom that, but it actually saved me. And then I'm take a super bounce there so I can skip the final you do that, but I couldn't get a mini turbo Oh no. [laughs] Oh, getting shocked Unfortunately there, oh, that messed me up so was all because I got shocked on a mushroom and it I'm not gonna do well this race unless I can pull Oh, okay, okay. Don't follow me over the that was ridiculous. Oh, I got screwed over so bad red shelled at the end. Wow, we rarely get 200cc it way less common, but now it's funny. So we're which has underwater speed and, uh, the leaf track has none of that. So, uh, great, you know. I did the shortcut, but I think the way that I Okay, I'm gonna have to focus here because I don't to it. I used to actually play 200cc more than I I don't know, I just stopped. Okay, you don't have to mini-turbo hop like you have to so looks like everyone's making mistakes. I know Can I evade this blue shell? Just outrun I missed my mini-turbo. I seriously-- the blue shell for the rest of the race if that Ah, that was frustrating. So, on 200, you be going fast enough, and I missed my mini-turbo. winning and losing. I give this combo an 8 out Coconut Mall to shop for new car parts because optimal combo. I mean, kind of. It's one of the say this is the best, but it is so close enough The Koopa Clown Car is hilarious, and I'm using the color theme of Iggy, so this is great. on the Koopa Clown before the Wave 5 update, and they buffed the speed and mini-turbo, which it was so bad to begin with, so it totally makes Okay, unfortunately, no blue shell protection so I might be okay here. Oh, I'm not okay. I'm not first place from me in the last race? Take that. I thought I was gonna get them twice. All I'm just not allowed to keep a super horn. all their red shells at you, and you don't know to them is they get messed up afterwards. They're not using the spawn. [Music] Can't get the item. So unfortunate. So, if you constantly throw your red shells, means that, uh, you're probably getting messed like, when I play in lower-level rooms, I I mean, this is not-- good throw. This is not acting like it. Yeah, backspam at the line too. Yeah, somehow Mario's standard Oh Cheep Cheep Beach! I made a comment in one think I've ever played Cheep Cheep Beach, like, so I had no footage of it to show. And, I don't know if Cheep Cheep Beach is a simpler but either way, they're both very simple tracks. and, uh, I don't know how to play this, but don't think knowing how to play Cheep Cheep Sorry to be mean to Cheep Cheep Beach, but it's do with whether or not I like this track. It has so there's no reason to get good at it. [Music] so I have two red shells, and I'm gonna do the my two red shells because what's the point? I'm and if I took out first place with my red people who do that, like, if you think you're race because in the middle of the race, people Uh, probably not. Okay, I've definitely I was intending to do that. I don't know if with a blue mini-turbo, that's definitely slower. Cheep Beach? [laughs] One for one and just never it's set to rival my Waluigi Stadium winning am I right? We're just in a hope for not another Okay, let's try this. Oh, I barely get eaten up by the off-road. There we one for one equals 100%. This is my best combo What? Where's the Mach 8? Oh my, I must get to my combo in time. I'm on the Yeah, that combo sucks. I need a change. How am I gonna compete with the Streetles? Mach 8. This has anti-gravity speed. Uh, color-coordinated and they are not. Also got Okay, that works. That works. Back in third. I already have protection. If your item is decent, Okay, I'm not using as high of a mini-turbo as I Okay, I kind of messed it up. Uh, if you're it becomes better to just go So, like, that shortcut isn't super worth it. other side of the wall. That is the riskiest part but sometimes if I'm using a combo I feel like I never get Donut Plains, and and there go all my green shells. Okay, let's try doesn't go so good. Yes, I kind of lost some speed Let's get two item boxes there. Is Probably not, honestly. Okay, I mean, I could Oh, blooper. No traction. Give me double item box. Ah, this is not good. I didn't go for Okay, well, I'm not passing anyone. I just You know what? All blue combo on a green track. Oh, this combo is so goofy. [laughs] We have was actually really popular at the start of look, look everyone, look. This combo is Waluigi was like, &quot;Oh yeah, that's true. This combo is we were only using Waluigi Wiggler because fact that this is similar to Waluigi Wiggler really good combo. Don't get me wrong, it's as everyone thought it was. Everyone thought it like, close to the best, and everyone was like, Cringe for thinking this was the best.&quot; And then I'm gonna cancel my mini turbo do not It's so important not to get hit in this game. Oh, item box, item box. I need a box. [laughs] This track is so difficult to play when just playing this track in the first place is item boxes too, and that's completely messing up let's back that. Someone has a super I don't have to dodge that banana, that was up someone taking the shortcut. [laughs] They geez. Okay, a lot of coins though. I'm so far in items. That's it. And I missed it. It's like bumps, and it's just so hard to do anything on Oh, bullet. Okay, sweet. I forgot where to use it. Let's see. I think it is it too early. I'm so I can get a mushroom by the time I land place. [laughs] Uh, that's how you play Mario need the bullet extension knowledge and you're on the land ship and button tires. Very ominous combo possible on Boo Lake, but even Moonview wait a minute, I forgot about that. Okay, so but I know that other people can lag into the it can still explode, and so everyone else gets these bomb cars online. It's ridiculous. Okay, Mario Kart Wii more, I would be a lot better at I was trying to back that into the bomb think I missed though, I'm gonna need a stay in the middle of the road if you uh, the cars there. Or you can go really stole my--my own son stole my super horn? Okay, I'm gonna go really inside here. Yeah, you if you go in the middle of the road, but you have then, uh, you might get hit. I don't know if but I saw the world record go for it. Also, people's in this room, I believe, so, uh, I It's a very speed-based track. In fact, if you've fastest combo as the world record because there's need the speed to be able to keep up on this during the section, you're toast. It doesn't Okay, look at that lead. Wow, first ever race on and this is my best track. So we have Link on the Triforce tires because they are just not We're trying to get everything to match, but we're the same time, unfortunately, with Link. Oh, that worth risking for. I probably shouldn't have if you think you're gonna fail, like, okay, I messed up anyway. So I'm gonna use I do not like being near people, especially on Okay, good. Nobody has attack items, so we were you kind of have to go in the middle. Well, Okay, let's not mess up this shortcut this let's go try it. [laughs] Oh, that worked! Let's double blocked the double item box, that's making a little comeback. This track is so hard Come on, snipe. Oh, I can-- [laughs] Oh, I love that. The Rosalina is gonna be like, Ooh, okay, that looked like I almost fell off, shortcut. Oh, I can't hit them. They have a mushroom. Okay, I can super horn them. Yes. that was such a good item pull at the end. Wow. person I played this Mario Kart with and only Mr. Shortcat about to assert his dominance. So, and a lot of people have actually asked me why did before. Um, I just wanted more variety in the of course you would do that. This is what I use their items when it, like, doesn't really make them right afterwards. I mean, it's fine. It say, like, they made a bad decision necessarily, that if it's your only item. Oh, bomb. Oh, fire. gotta go wide. Otherwise, that's what happens varieties, which is why I stopped using the first, and then I wanted so much variety that I I kind of forgot about using the Shortcat mii. using the Varmint. I actually like the Varmintm I small hitbox. And the really cool thing is it the only person who uses the sponge tires. I really like it too. Oh, yeah, good one, good one. Okay, that Wiggler gets a blue shell as scared they have another trail item and just get not gonna take the shortcut, or I'll be because Wiggler has nothing. I'm gonna [laughs] AniiMax, what are you doing to me? Oh, this is just so brutal. Fire, okay. Oh, that--how did that not Alright, I don't think going through Take that inside to dodge the bomb. Oh, Yeah, okay. Shortcat mii gets a 10 out of 10 for don't make the rules. And come on, Japanese