- At ATK, we test hundreds and we are always on the lookout for the best products on the market. The real trick, however, high-quality kitchen gear (upbeat music) Stocking your kitchen gear can go a long way towards and making kitchen tasks easier. But sometimes top-rated gear can come with a hefty price tag, which So I'm gonna show you some our team has tested under $25. Drop a like, let me know what and let's get started. First on my list, a Portable burners are Having a spare stove is hugely helpful, and for cooking in campers or RVs. We tested gas and and our ATK-recommended won the electric category. At around 14 bucks, it was burner in our lineup Electric burners are great because they're usually more compact and less expensive than gas burners. During our testing, we to look for and consider with First up, powerful heating. Of the electric models only our favorite had the oomph to boil, stir It had the highest wattage at 1,100 watts, and it outshined its electric competition every time we used it. That said, it also took as the gas burners to boil water, so something to consider there. The other electric they couldn't boil water Next up, responsive heat adjustability. Every model we tested had a single dial to adjust the heat level. The best models allowed and worked both at very The Imusa has a nice to adjust the heat levels Next, cleaning. You want your Most of the models we including the Imusa. You just wipe them down and and an all-purpose spray Definitely don't immerse 'cause they do have electric components. Which brings us to safety. Electric burners usually to prevent tripping while But if you do use an extension cord, because you might need to, and secured, and don't trip on it. One big thing to know about the Imusa is it can't handle pans over 10 pounds, so unfortunately you won't be or boil massive stock pots of stew. But the Imusa is great for like burgers or stir it's a helpful little tool. Next, let's talk mini slow cookers. You're probably thinking, do I really need a But trust me, these things are awesome. They can do everything from to slow cooking scaled-down meals for one or two people The big draw here though will also save you a ton of space. They're perfect for a college dorm room, a camper, or for smaller kitchens. All of the models we They were pretty rudimentary with no digital temperature like our winning full-size slow Each consists of a removable outfitted with a glass lid that houses the heating elements. There was one key difference though, their temperature controls. While two models had dials for warm, low and high, one for low and high. Another model by CrockPot didn't have a temperature dial at all. It was either on or off We found mini slow cookers often ended up overcooking food. So be sure to look out for those temperature-sensitive recipes. You also want to get a model with handles so you can safely transport And a bright indicator so you can know that the model is on. The one we tested from or an indicator light, which Can these mini slow cookers really replace a full slow cooker? No, they can't, but there's certainly more than just a novelty item at. Around 25 bucks, our from Elite Gourmet is a great option for keeping apps warm at the table or for cooking scale down recipes. Next, electric wine openers. The right model like our from Secura can save you a uncorking bottles of wine. Regardless of style, electric wine openers essentially work the same way. You put the opener over the press a button or apply the corkscrew, pierces the cork. After the worm has of the entire cork, it reverses direction and pulls the cork from the bottle. Once this cycle is Another button usually releases but summed this automatically. The models we tested have Some sit on charging docks into an electrical outlet via a cord. We tested our lineup by with synthetic corks, which can and natural corks. Our winner from Secura First, manual start and cork release. We liked the control that Because we were in control of we never worried about the they were firmly planted on the bottles, which did happen with other models. We could also release the on our time. Models with corkscrews could easily pierce both The tip of our winner was particularly pointy and knife-like. It effortlessly pierced with the push of a button. Our least favorite was dull Smaller models were best. Lighter devices less than one We also like models that when on their charging docks on a shelf or in a cabinet. Evenly distributed weight was also key. Models that were proportionate were much easier to hold and control. We could comfortably maintain our grip during the entire process Quick and quiet operation We favored models that without making too much of a ruckus. What was even more important, that open bottles of wine roughly the same amount of time it takes an experienced person with a traditional corkscrew. Our winner stood out for its allowing us to see the It shone not only in form Compared to a traditional corkscrew, it worked just as quickly It opened over 30 bottles of wine in a row without losing charge and easily And although it spun a it had a plastic rim At around 20 bucks, we think for wine enthusiasts and Next, blade coffee grinders. Many of us here at the test kitchen are passionate about coffee. And if you want the freshest, most full flavored cup of coffee, we always recommend grinding It's best to do this as our testing has shown that and aroma within one hour of being ground. Home coffee grinders come in A blade grinder works with a rapidly-spinning blade into smaller and smaller fragments. A burr grinder works with two spinning discs for a finer or coarser grind. Blade grinders are often more compact and are a fraction of the while still producing We used the grinders and coarse grind with both Finally, we had testers to coffee experts operate each grinder to gauge its user friendliness and taste the coffee they produce. This is our ATK-recommended and it had some key during our testing. We measured the distance between the blade and the base of the grinding chamber, and we found that models with between the blade and the base allowing whole beans and never get fully broken down. That's just a waste. Our favorite grinder had just ensuring that, when operated we never saw any whole It achieved the most even grind of any of the blade grinders Medium is good. In coffee terminology, there's fines, the really powdery stuff, mediums, the medium-sized chunks, and boulders which are too big. You're really not so having a lot of Capacity is also important. The amount of beans you grind depends on how much coffee you're making. A good grinder should be able to process anywhere from a single serving to a full pot's worth of beans. To test capacity, we for brewing a full pot, in our winning automatic which requires just under 70 grams or about one cup of ground coffee. Most of the grinders were able but two struggled. One just barely contained And with the grinding the beans could not rotate around, and this grinder struggled While many of us are probably every single day, proved more difficult to use even when they weren't overflowing. Our favorite grinder, on the other hand, had a capacity of 75 grams, which made it more versatile and tidier. Simpler is better. Cooks often use blade but also for spices, but and can even leave traces of the spice behind in your coffee. A touch of cinnamon may be nice, but maybe not a touch of cumin. Some brands try to mitigate like removable spice grinding chambers, but these just made things in the end. We preferred the simpler, of traditional blade style grinders. Ultimately, we recommend buying a separate grinder for spices. We considered other design such as the ease of holding where these buttons were placed, and how easy it was to monitor Some grinders had buttons or shaded lids that partially obscured Others were so difficult to press down that we had to grip the We haven't had our coffee We liked responsive grind buttons, a clear lid and offset buttons so our hands didn't block Here's a tip for blade grinders. We found that if you just some of the coffee beans get overground while others never come in and remained whole. To combat this, we recommend in one-second intervals in between pulses. This isn't a complete fix. Even after shaking and grinding we still had some unevenly Our ATK-recommended model by Krups was incredibly simple to use, and a crystal clear lid that How do these inexpensive blade grinders compare to burr grinders? Burr grinders are easier to and they're also easier from day to day because the degree to which the beans are ground. But there is a case for blade grinders. They're not quite as consistent, require more effort from the user, and you can't dial in But at a 10th of the price, you can still get delicious After conducting taste again and again, pulling in coffee experts to help us evaluate the flavor, tasters really could not between coffee made with a blade grinder and a burr grinder. Burr grinders are easier to use, but for around 18 bucks you from a blade grinder, and don't let anyone tell you otherwise. Last, but certainly not least You may not need a panini press, but a good one makes toasting sandwiches and grilling indoors so simple that you will find Panini presses, also called or contact grills, are that close around sandwiches Sometimes panini presses Other models didn't have them. But they have receptacles and open flat to become a griddle, sometimes with separate During testing, we learned But first we should point similar foods without a panini press. In the test kitchen, we've or regular cast iron skillets such as our winning heavy grill press, or even just a heavy Dutch oven to produce crisply-toasted panini and other indoor grilled foods. That said, electric panini If you have limited kitchen space or own few appliances they can offer versatility in one machine. This is our ATK-recommended the Dash Express Griddle. Simple, small and inexpensive, with flat, rather than was an &quot;Eh, why not?&quot; Its performance surprised Light, compact, easy to use and clean, it kept pace with pricier producing golden, crispy, melty panini, though with no grill marks, Larger bulkier panini on sub rolls had to be cut in halves to fit, and we needed to press down as they grilled, but the We also cooked a few big made fluffy egg and cheese omelets, made ham and cheese panini If you can't tell, we were just Wiping the machine clean Bottom line, this is not a and it may not last forever, And at around 20 bucks, a worthy addition to your kitchen arsenal. With my picks for inexpensive gadgets, I hope you will be well quicker, or better cooking without too much of an For more information I talked about today, or go to americastestkitchen.com. Let me know in the comments make your list of favorites. And while you're down there, and click the Bell icon so (upbeat music)