Have you ever wondered what was the worst what we're going to go over today. I'm ThioJoe and systems in history. So we're going to go over in Some of these, you may have heard of some of them that you hate even more, you can always let us number seven, we have Windows ME, officially year 2000. And this has such a bad reputation. as &quot;Windows Mistake Edition&quot;, although it's operating system that most people saying how Technically, the ME stands for Millennium to be for personal users as opposed to and more for business and enterprise. And most it was a rushed attempt, at the last minute, place. It was just kind of there to fill a gap 2000. And it didn't really need to exist because which was superior before it. And then it which again, obviously became extremely popular. Windows ME had a reputation of crashing, being bugs, and just a reputation So in that super short lifecycle, improve it or fix it by the time XP came out. And hearing the reputation, just stuck with I was able to actually boot Windows ME into a any other version that's old, of Windows. So it that I remember using in school. But Microsoft did Internet Explorer 5.5. It had Windows Movie videos. And it also had a bunch of hideous honestly, what are these? These Windows ME definitely goes down in history Moving on to number six, we have MS-DOS operating systems were not actually that especially version 3.3. But when 4.0 The biggest problem was that DOS 4.0 was found to or at least some of them. So again, was really buggy with compatibility problems. Even though, it did add some significant and it actually had support for mouses And surprisingly, after a bit of digging, a virtual machine. And there's not much to nothing pre-installed. So it's basically the ability to change theme So looking in DOS utilities, it basically just That's pretty much it. Backup and restore and ugly colors. That's all I can which was basically just a file Explorer files within it. And there's not much in the old programs you might recognize though, such much what you'd expect. It looks really similar to I mean this version of DOS literally which was introduced in 5.0. So yeah, basically unstable, and most people just stuck with 3.3. All right. On a number five, we have one It's called the Incompatible Timesharing Basically it was created by hackers in and PDP-10 series computers. So these are big old not the type of personal computers you're used much from scratch in assembly code. So pretty don't know why the name says &quot;incompatible&quot;, for just those computers and wouldn't really work means that it was for computers that are meant personal computer. So a lot of times, these would be allowed to have access for a certain Now this operating system being so early in the However, looking back at it, it was missing a can't imagine not having. For example, which basically meant that there were no got one directory. That was it. You had to put Also apparently it only allowed files to have Mono Case, which means that you couldn't have didn't matter. Another interesting non-existent. There were no passwords initially, but it was apparently polite to apparently to get on. I don't exactly know how it And also that meant that anybody could edit even the system files and source they could literally just go in But I believe because it was at was faculty or staff and other people it was probably just in everyone's best not exactly an operating system that I All right now on a number 4, we have JavaOS. or mostly on Java by Sun Microsystems or the announced in 1996, but it only lasted three because apparently, basically nobody used it. And because there were basically no computers trouble finding some screenshots. But you can see Now in the initial press release announcing &quot;a highly compact operating system designed to in anything from net computers to pagers.&quot; So and be able to run on &quot;embedded devices&quot;. So but also be able to do on ATM's or like it said, And it was actually licensed by several major used it, even though they licensed it. Also system was written in Java as opposed to C, people said that this operating system than the other operating systems. So Based on what I could find, really the only was the Javastation computer, which was created was even so unpopular that I could really only documentation files. But I would recommend there's another YouTuber by the name about the Javastation. He was able to get steal his screenshots and stuff, I will direct He's able to boot it up and you can see So basically JavaOS was a complete failure that much one computer that was officially built by All right, onto number three, you guys knew this Vista from 2006. Now I should point out that turn out okay. But on launch and for a while, it have a lot of problems. For example, because of stuff being upgraded and improved in the backend, who were maybe upgrading from their current Vista would run a lot slower on the equivalent Vista just sucks.&quot; But really it was probably just exactly their fault, because you kind of expect a Also because a lot was redone on the backend, equipment manufacturers to update the drivers that to do this, or didn't do it at all. So maybe your you wouldn't be able to use it, as well. And for core components like NVIDIA for graphics they caused crashes and stuff. So there was Another thing that people didn't like is the User in terms of security, but it was so new and because every time you would try to do something, it would pop up a prompt to do And perhaps it was too intrusive on Windows 10, I think it's a lot better. I And I believe that pops up way less frequently And there were some features that I actually I was kind of sad when that was removed Service Pack One was released, which fixed a lot But by that time, Windows 7 was just around seeing how great it was. And because a lot of people saw the reputation &quot;You know what? I'm never going to even and then maybe upgrade to Windows 7.&quot; So Windows All right, on to number two, you probably knew from 2012. Basically at the time, Microsoft tablet interfaces. I guess they saw that mobile &quot;You know what? We should have the same exact as a touchscreen tablet&quot;, which did not exactly go they really shifted too far towards the being a lot of things that were horrible on a desktop. They had the start menu become just a full screen out well, if you were using a touch pad device, Windows 8 also had the new Metro style apps, which And these were a bit confusing as well, but they had no way to minimize out or minimize button on these. So There was also the Charms Bar, which had or moving the cursor over. But it was instructions on how to use anything. So if know how to access those things, they Another really weird thing was that but only by clicking on the desktop tile on the the desktop by default. And once you were not exactly clear how to get back to the start key on your keyboard, which is not intuitive Now eventually Microsoft did release Windows 8.1 in 2013, which improved a lot of the Windows it brought back the start button, which would start menu, but at least the button was there. default. And also they later added the close So obviously a lot of people found this versions of Windows. Though, it wasn't all good additions. For example, the Fast Startup There were task manager improvements. It also included Windows Defender built-in, also a support for DPI scaling if you have And there was also cloud syncing settings. So a and just had such a bad reputation, a lot of didn't. I just stuck to Windows 7. I was like, I think one computer that was using it. It was So finally, on a number one, in my opinion, we have Lindows From 2001. No I'm not misspeaking. actually an operating system called Lindows. And serious attempt to basically create an operating interface and also supported running major Windows The problem was... It didn't work. And apparently the creators eventually scrapped the initial system that would make it very easy But there were actually some interesting features &quot;click and run&quot; software distribution service, install any number of Linux software packages. was sort of a novelty. The service apparently through this. However, it wasn't free. There was which allowed you to use it. And at the from the Linux community for having paid to pay for it to use, which was kind of against Also Microsoft wasn't exactly happy about I guess. So they actually sued the lost. The court sided with the Lindows settled by supposedly paying $20 million to So then the operating system was renamed to So it wasn't like this was just some random hobby recognition and actually companies bought it. over the years. So it is a legitimate operating because of all the criticism, and well, there's plenty of other way more popular So it really just never took off, which So let me know down in the comments, if you have been number one, or you think that should let me know down there. If you guys want to is one I made recently talking about Windows you could disable. So I'll put that link So thanks so much for watching guys