Exodus chapter 14 and verse 13 Then they said to have you taken us away to die in the to bring us up out of Egypt? Is this not 'Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians'? the Egyptians than that we should die in the felt the Lord put on my heart for tonight. Verse the situation you are facing. This is not a sermon specifically for you. And Moses said to and see the salvation of the Lord, which He whom you see today, you shall see again no and you shall hold your peace." What do you came back and you thanked God for it. The Bible God warned them but see when you in a good mood, good mood, you never listen to anything that's God warns them that Pharaoh will come back and I will gain honor and everyone will know I am Lord's presence was so evident in Israel's camp, presence didn't show up when Pharaoh showed up. The blood of the lamb was on the doorpost and the to accompany Israel for next few days and when and they're praising God but then they started to getting up and they're realizing, oh my goodness, back and then all of the negative feelings begin replay in their minds. We should have been just they're looking in front of them is the Red Sea natural impossibility. Not demonic. Red Sea is Behind them is demonic forces. Behind them is was crushing by the power of the Holy Spirit and in our life, this is how it usually happens. out people sometimes say Vlad, is this demonic natural problem, usually natural problems attract I'm not saying that a person has a demon but they pressure. Have you ever experienced that? It's a pressure on your brain. This depression, this same time. You experienced the natural problem in this heaviness. You're like where is this coming Sea is in front of me. Sometimes, it's not the something the spiritual is colliding and trying to this evening. Maybe it's not for you but it's sandwiched, two patties came and you became you. You're going to go somewhere. He gave you the in your life. There were good moments in your walk in your walk with Christ but that didn't last your life. In fact, you're reminded things always a little bit of light but things always go back is bondage. Yes, you're a child of God. Yes, you bondage in Egypt, bondage in the finances and you to be pulled back into your normal but today I'm He sets us free indeed. When God touches your your life, your normal is no longer going to be something that is going to be super natural. When attacks when we got married. She didn't have out why and what opened the door and I started to curses work. Interestingly, even if you study in your genes that lie dormant that get awakened life stresses which usually come from changes people get married, a very huge change, you lived huge change. For some people, you were married and you call when you have two kids at the same time, when you got twins right away, big life change extremely different and what different does for and the things they've had in their genes like us. So I married my wife, no problem. My wife went to a very lovely church, good church. I get having this abnormal demonic attacks and we are I treat demons like spiders. We're going to kill four R's you know recognize, repent, renounce, remain, remain in the presence of God. So it's prayed and nothing happened. We prayed and nothing and nothing happened and I was like, where's was her mother battled with some of these things, you've never battled with it. Why did that to understand the change of scenery and the were always there. Tri-Cities didn't bring the it so God can set her free and so I remember you sometimes when you pray and you do your part and Sometimes somebody walks in a different measure of you can have them minister as well. So we go to no manifestation. That's why not every deliverance floor and so he just says, you are free and so she the minister you look up to says, you are free. came home and she came home and everything was the you are free but 3 days later because it's about 3 is well we need to go for another deliverance no but I am free. I was like, Yeah well. Yeah I same stuff happening and she says, it's Pharaoh forward and the enemy I see today, I will see crossing the Red Sea for my wife was a year and a subsided slowly, she would listen to the sermons every single day and what she would do is this, going to go fight back the enemy that is attacking God and then comes a tipping point where the very that I am walking into, God is going to make a way and He's going to make me free indeed. Not only nightmares, they were gone and those feelings in the church, I don't belong in Tri-Cities. I nobody loves me. Those feelings, I can't make any good at any job. Those things were gone. Sometimes Sometimes it's you carrying something and you're the very place you despise becomes a place Maybe somebody's here today and you're facing God wants to make and this is my message for way. For Jonah, He provided the fish. For For disciples, He gave them a boat. For Paul, He God made a way where there was no way. Sometimes natural means but sometimes, He will just has been absolutely no other way that you can get I still believe in God who answers prayers. I I still believe in God who saves prodigals. rebellious and atheistic husband. I still spells. I still believe in God who delivers about you but I believe in this God and His from China and if you've never read I would encourage you to read the book called the but something happened to brother Yun is they cause of Jesus in jail and not once brother Yun door and somehow broke all the rules in jail did in this particular jail in China, this was the with a sledgehammer so even if God opens the him to fast for 76 days on water. Now again unless God tells you supernaturally and they break Yun. On the 76th day, Jesus said, He said, Lord that's a brilliant idea. There's He said, now you're getting out of jail and he Number one, there's six layers of security, six you do it before so I don't doubt that part. don't work. They're both broken and then the start to work until he put them on the floor. he cannot understand how, carried him through he just passed right through him, carried him he went and the security didn't get triggered, the fifth gate and then the sixth gate which was legs don't hurt and they walk. He walks comes out and he says, it's just a matter of They'll realize that he's no longer in his cell I've been waiting for you, get in. He gets into take him. He brings him to a house and in that you will get in, there's another car, get in and he still preaches the gospel and he still way. If God can do it in China, He can do it for a nation, He can do it for your family. He your health. He can do it for your business and you to go to Canaan and Red Sea is standing God did not lie to you about Canaan. God did not in a surprise. God knew every single thing that's where there is no way. Jesus's name is, I am way. I remember a couple just two years ago, left ministry to take time to work on his marriage. The had a front seat of how difficult this marriage only you can save this marriage. Nobody can help and abuse and just negativity, just these people's at it and I was like honestly in the back of my is just separate. So he gets released. He's like he gets released to work on his marriage, he files She freaks out. I remember she called and she says leave this position, this ministry opportunity he away from marriage and I have two children. I have go. I said, he made up his mind and you're not your head and put him in God's hands. Don't to restore. Trust God for resurrection. He might resurrect this marriage. She let him for every person but the person completely walked heart was so cold. It was colder than Alaska. spiral of self-destruction. He starts doing things was in this marriage. One thing led to another. place. She let him go. She came back to church. see any way that this person would ever come back and God supernaturally protected him. He was in shower and He touched him so powerfully that afterwards, God supernaturally like Jericho walls a total different man. He called his wife, ripped and apologized, repented and says, I will do but I want to be a father to these kids, came back are different, heart is different and this woman way. Maybe your marriage is there today. There's open to the gospel. Maybe your children are there never accept your religion. You are crazy and you God gave you a promise, me and my house will serve the way to Canaan, I want to tell you something, way. God can use a dream. God can use a friend. accident but God has a way of getting people people you lost contact with. He makes a way where a car accident. Some of you saw the testimony and the doctor says, you're pretty much are going to it. Encourage her to get a wheelchair and the her for the rest of her life. She refused to buy reason believed, one day not only I will not need to Deliver conference which is the conference rented a wheelchair to come to Raised to Deliver airplane with her can testify to what I'm sharing bring her there. For six months, she had to eat bathed by her parents taking her to the shower lost mobility. She couldn't control them. She was into the meeting and it wasn't just somebody that the lobby, that cared enough to pray for her and started to work and she felt tingling thing in her will. She walked out of the wheelchair herself, was her first choice. I would say Chick-fil-A Tri-Cities. Goes to McDonald's and for the first but with her hands and with her mouth. God can came to worship today is that God who can do that. You have a call from God. God gave you a calling. but where you are at, there's absolutely no way that ministry or maybe you are doing that ministry because when our church started and our pastor that vision as well for myself. For a decade, I experience any breakthrough. I mean I'm talking without water baptizing people and I preached as than I preach now and I was creative, I mean to youth service because I was trying to convince like a pig with a golden nose ring. What I didn't little piglet. So we washed it. You know put the going to stink and 5 minutes into it, every kid had to switch my message and I said that you know everybody smells it and had to finish the service. every single thing but we wouldn't see the fruit promise God has given that we will reach thousands but in front of us is the Red Sea. It's just an well it's because you're in Tri-Cities, come people will leave their churches and come to you move money from savings to checkings. We're kingdom and to do that, we got to plunder hell and from other churches and so we would respond, no, Tri-Cities is like the armpit of United States. Tri-Cities is just a graveyard because in Russina churches only about two families from church. One kicked out for divorce. The other one out for something else, not necessarily with the Red Sea. No way. People said well, it's because of that you know American people will not come. Yeah and when people think of you guys, that's nobody knew the difference between Ukrainian and know nobody will come to your church. You guys demons. You talk about things that people just take off but see, you have to understand, if there is a demonic hindrance of Pharaoh God makes a way where there is no way when the first young man when he got saved, my cousin-in-law is there such a thing as a That's what I was trying to say. He is married to where is David? David right here and David is the just at the time came back from Africa, he was a little bit too bold and so David went to sauna so people, objects, plants, everything and so but did not know is Lewis actually was contemplating and Lewis struggled with that and so David scoots you and at that time, David does a lot calmer he wouldn't shut it up for 30 minutes non-stop. Yeah even when I would see him in the gym, I would I was like make sure, you don't tell them you some other church because I was like man, he had no shame and he kept telling people, I was me free. And so he scoots to Lewis in the sauna like you know you're supposed to sit there for 15 poor Lewis is dying in sauna and David isn't doesn't want to interrupt this guy's religious and going until Lewis is realizing if I don't this. So Lewis excuse and he says, I you can go now and so Lewis leaves and two him on the shoulder. He says, remember the sauna with your religious presentation. Something happened that you shared. I don't I haven't been doing drugs for already two months. night Lewis showed up and he stood out like person I've seen in a long time so like you know going to stand out. I give a call to salvation life to the Lord. Lewis worked at Chico's tacos. another one gives his life to Jesus, another I cannot remember one service in the last eight broke in our church. God made a way where there way. Hungry Generation is not special gave you a promise and there is a natural natural problem, God has a solution for has a way and sometimes this is how with Pharaoh and drowns them both together. room for the supernatural to die in it, the Few things I want to share for us to practically notes. God brought you to it. He will bring you this, He will bring you through it. In verse graves in Egypt, have you taken us. I want you Have you taken us. Whoa whoa whoa whoa! Moses an impossible situation, you will always have an devil will block your memory and you will begin point. It's my dad. It's my wife. It's my husband. someone else. You give credit about what God has Moses didn't bring them to the Red Sea, God did. this situation but faith will say, God brought this. Moses didn't bring you out of Egypt. chariots of Pharaoh. Stop hoping for his bring you through it. God brought your He guided your life all the way long and some of it was God because if it would have been God, Well the thing about it God isn't taking you gets you there and until you start seeing His the first thing the devil will tell you is this. I didn't bring myself here, it is God who saved kept me up to this point of my life. I'm not trusting in God and I know He brought me to this brought my family to this point and I trust Amen. The second thing I want to highlight He brought you here to drown what's chasing you. Red Sea was not where God planned to for Pharaoh. I'm going to say that again. The the enemy will right away paint a picture of at the Red Sea but it's not going to be yours, going to be funeral of your anxiety. It's going funeral of your offenses. It will be funeral of this Red Sea won't drown you but it will but it will prune you. It will purge you. I through this season of faith as you walk I will break some things off. I will loosen person because of what you walk through. Come on night. He's not planning to drown you, He's boys. He's not planning to burn you at that will come out without a smell of fire but the to have anymore because there are stuff you I have a perfect place where that stuff cannot not get through. I will drown that Pharaoh. through. Somebody give God some praise right now you believe that He will not drown you but He will Amen. I want you to see again verse 13, Do stand still. Stand still. Write this you have to learn to stand in your faith. They them to stand in front of it in faith, not in fear will do is fear will stir up your emotions. Fear will mess with your perspective because at there is a cloud of God in the midst of them in Seattle all the time, this wasn't that. This this was not natural fire. This was supernatural fear does is fear causes you to obsessed with supernatural fire of God, that's in your midst. change your confession instead of saying God's a husband into my life. He will deliver me from He is my healer. What fear will say, Moses, the cucumbers. We told you, you shouldn't get changes your confession. Fear pains the worst fear. Fear is deadly because fear paralyzes your exalting your circumstances above God. Fear is that you will see Canaan. Fear is feeling like man we will be in bondage. Fear exaggerates the is His mercy. His mercies are new every morning. is Jehovah Rapha. His name name is Jehovah Nissi. Fear exaggerates your financial bank account. Fear Why? Because everything you're experiencing Everything you seeing can be changed with one ministry. God can change your marriage. God can to exaggerate the reality. Yes, your son is on they found cancer cell in your body but you're not defeated in somebody's body. God can heal from death. His name is exalted above every name. Is Pharaoh strong and big? Yes but you got fire You can focus on the cloud. You can focus on the fire that brought 10 plagues and defeated Pharaoh. or you can listen to the sound of the chariots. God. Your perspective changes when you exalt God. strong in God. Let the poor say, I am blessed. confessing, and possessing. I'm not talking about is this when you see the cloud, your eyes light on fire and your mouth begins to be touched first thing that happened to people when they got tongues. When you're filled with fear, you describing the worst case scenario. We won't happens like this with us and it's your fault better. It complicates things and all while the of God is within your reach. I'm talking about the I'm talking about a God who said, Let there be God who raises the dead. I'm talking about God that God is in your midst and all you're talking move in faith, you're going to have to learn life you will not have steps of faith. You nothing you can do. God isn't showing. You no ability even to take any steps. You got a you can and there's no other steps for you take steps, stand still and that is the hardest hardest thing to do when there's a war raging I know you want to do something but right only a faith can stop the storm is the faith Peter panicked in a storm and Jesus says, little Jesus stopped the storm. God will never trust to stand. When all you want to do is do anything there's desperation. I got to do something. I got happening. You don't have a boat. The Red Sea nothing you can do. When you cannot do anything, an evil day in Ephesians chapter 6 it says this, devil is throwing his best shot. He's coming what is the greatest thing you can do, that's the still. Stand still. Stand still. Stand Peter who was in the boat who couldn't be remember book of Acts when they the next day, he was facing a trial. When doing? Now Peter's faith is the same as the This guy is facing execution tomorrow and guess How could you be sleeping if you're going to be that will take steps. Faith that can give you situation. Where do you get that faith? You don't by fixing your eyes on the cloud instead of the of Jesus. I have the promise of Jesus or I can is doing and what is happening in my life whether focus on the promise and the moment I focus on will mistaken that for inactivity, laziness and being still requires a lot of faith. Can somebody highlight is this, if you go forward in faith, God why do you cry to Me? Tell the children of in four verses later and the Angel of the Lord behind them. This is what happens in the spirit didn't bring you here to drown you, He brought how. It could be a boat a fish or you might learn way. Can somebody say Amen. And you trust in God. the way till this point. He brought me here. He not like Apple Maps or Google Maps. They just God brought me here. There must be a reason. do? Stand still until He says to march forward. scary. What's going to happen? This is what's God moves backwards to begin to protect you. God to go backwards and the chariots of Pharaoh all night long, Pharaoh would advance but couldn't God moves in power. When you move in faith, you away the chariots. God begins to cause struggle in going to make it but in reality, it is the enemy going to be your circumstances that are going to when you move in faith. God is not moved by your not moved even by your prayer if it lacks faith. I trust you. Faith says, God I can't see you but healed. Faith says, God you are exalted high above above the economy. You are my God and faith exalts the praises of people. Faith honors God and God God without faith and many of us, the problem learn new language. You couldn't speak in Russian Seattle nowadays you can do but most places, you come to the kingdom of God, you must understand negativity. His language is not, oh I'm just Learn His language and at first, you could be English opens the door with a very thick accent accent of pessimism, very thick accent but at Peter. He speaking faith but very small faith, of Acts and you see Peter is now speaking fluent sleeping. Angel is waking him up. Wake up Peter. takes steps of faith. You know for us to move to property right now that we're remodeling is a step step of faith. God will move in power when you be different than what it means for me but I want lie when He gave you that promise. God is true to and today, maybe you listening with one ear like is past that. I want to strengthen your faith. He always told them this, according to your faith. know He healed because He's God but He always Because God is honored where faith is found. God your faith. What Red Sea are you facing right now? if you hold your peace, I'm going to fight for breakthrough for the glory of God. You're going to Genesis, she's married to our pastor's youngest to Jesus and Genesis like a lot of us, started to because the family didn't want to do anything with no, we're not going to go there. In fact, they her, call her with all kinds of things and then her mom, at the funeral, I remember I preached at gives his life to Jesus and that night was the quite a few years, he's faithfully serving and then the other cousin and then the other and now and a few days ago, I invited him to my house. He what do you have going on this evening? He says, wait, the family that just few years ago was there is a way and they're gathering. We don't made their own Bible study at 6:30 where everybody family. God wants to do the same in your marriage. I know you're looking at me, maybe today and you Sea is but I want to remind you how deep His love and God will not do His work without first breaking off the negativity, breaking off the fear claim to be, believers. We're not feelers, we're have the word of faith. We have the spirit of measure of faith and we're called to live a life faith than when Pharaoh is marching in and Red Sea away and you say God, I don't know what to do? Do drown? God, do I just panic? Do I just call quits will not see Pharaoh drowning you, you will see I will fight for you and God says the Pharaoh you coming a day of a permanent victory. There is something you only dreamed of. There is coming you didn't look at porn but you will not remember a day where you will no longer count days how many to smoke. There's coming a day where the Pharaoh at you, after you experienced temporary victory, living from paycheck to paycheck, you shall see you shall see again no more. Thus says the God. God is taking you to a place where Pharaoh where you shall see him again no more. You in Jesus name.