[Music] A centuries old castle, forgotten for the outskirts of France, where we uncover the The Chateau was property of the Chantille family, once a beacon of grandeur, now stands gates, we find ourselves transported Even though we researched extensively, we family who once called this castle home. They but their wealth mysteriously faded, leaving their The Inside of the castle is surprisingly stands out with its majestic red canopy bed. surrounded by high-backed chairs, is the living room with. a grand piano, ready Each room is a snapshot of the past, from books to the parlor adorned with antique is a time capsule, preserving Join us as we delve into the where every corner reveals a Welcome back everybody to the Bros of Decay. I have Sir Danny. Hello, hello everyone, and we are of France, in the middle of nowhere. We have just Yeah, we don't know much, unfortunately, about thing that we have discovered is that the yeah, a very French name. And by looking at it has been built around the 1700s. Looks I think we have come up here in the basement Uh, yeah, kind of, yeah, I would say so. area, 'cause upstairs there's a new though. This is probably still authentic most likely. I love these Wow, yes, spider webs are everywhere some time. And one fascinating feature is that all the smoke over the years has covered Yeah, you can see that there has been true. Was there... oh, oh no, before we go into the animals that they probably captured by Yeah, this is a duck, and probably another one, a small bird. Small No, oh, that's sad, but yeah, most likely they whole wall would have been covered, birds most they are like deer hooves, and they make coat we have seen this in a museum with the hooks Yeah, it's absolutely crazy. I think oh yeah, in the corner there, if you go Oh yeah, another duck, and I think this one is Yeah, I think all of them are taxy. Wow, look they even have mold on it. Oh my tripped on something. I love the build yeah, feels like this is a chapel, oh, maybe Yeah, and the crosses on the ceiling, this there's even a small painting here just a mirror. And have a look at I don't know, it was just one of my guesses, remodeled, so even all the keys are still hanging it was abandoned. This cellar and everything is Oh wow, wait, I just saw it even more down how do we keep finding these places? also see a lot in the comment section. Here, this was the entrance hall into the place, and this is the only door leading there's nothing on the other side of this place. Yeah, it's beautiful. Yeah, in this castle, just wallpaper; it's literally hand-painted. Do I It's more of an Italian thing. You don't see closer to the border, so maybe some influence and they just took it over. What do you want to Wow, look at it. Oh, I think it's been held somebody must have hunted that. So crazy, all a peacock, but then I looked closer and I saw that here, Danny. I've never seen this style before. mirror at the top. Normally, they always have a I think these were the dark colors. See, and we're They were animal lovers. Yeah, the jackets and we have the front door, made in an arch style, Yeah, this down part of the castle, it's to support the structure itself. Wow, It's big. It screams castle. Yeah, maybe even from the beginning of this place. Oh, Oh yeah, there's glass and a lot my God. Want to show in here first, or...? Oh, let's show that first. There's a really small. Oh, wow. Of course, these or it was a castle from the 1700s. There Oh yeah, definitely. I think these but water, they order to transport Danny. They have even a crock over here or neither, but this being a castle, and you can also expect a wine cellar in this place. Yeah, it's a huge one. It even still smells They most definitely produce their own wine in Yeah, of course. If you go closer over there, that's massive. You've seen those I don't come across them that often. Yeah, I That's true. It's very common because it's barrels over here. There's one, two, three, And here we can also get a look at the arch that's this pillar supporting everything. Wow, crazy. okay, let's go. Oh, I just want to check out there's some catalog in here. Wow, look at Okay, there's not much left of the former to look for papers, but we couldn't find little stand over here with their canes and I see a small chest standing in a corner. Ah, it's not even unfortunate, just a piece of to the staircase. Look at this beauty leading I love the railing on the stairs. Yeah, this it's a regular rope. And again, that's an Italian abandoned places. Okay, so maybe the family was but it could be Leslie. Sorry, as Le this is for a chair to go around. We'll see who lived here last was already in his older anymore. Look over here, this wall, and then Yeah, and like Danny pointed out before, it's crazy because it's literally hand-painted. So &quot;Oh no, these are actually wood.&quot; I and here we come to the first floor of this love the staircase, yeah, and all the painted walls, ceilings, everything. And also here in presenting this room. A little bit but still very elegant. Really beautiful, I feel normally you always see these twisting staircases, Yeah, but if the castle was built in common. It was more common building this is completely stone. Wow, like you can see Yeah, I also have a grandfather's clock It's not destroyed, it's just decayed over going to open it, but it used to be a wonderful and even have a look at the doorways that they are castle-like, exactly. I was Mostly, Danny, welcome inside the dining space. to be honest, I don't even know where to because this ceiling is wonderful. You can even between the beams. Yeah, it feels like they am I thinking I've seen almost a similar an Italian palace? I will link it resembles it almost perfectly. I love it oh yeah, it looks very cool. Really, really Yeah, so let's look over here, what we have. with the hat of the last owner. This with the feathers to the side. Spider webs of the owners of the place. He comes Yeah, look at this man. He looks very fancy one of the daughters or grandchildren of the and I think it's because of these broken this room smells a lot like wine, Yeah, true, it's quite crazy. I think a bottle but unfortunately, it's not out some things. I think they took out the I love this Indiana Jones leather hat, even This is a real plant, Danny. Oh, sorry, I thought it was fake. My and it's fake. That's why I No, it's real. It's actually one of the brands, probably from outside, that they planted it as well. Look at those men. It's a but they look very cartoonish. I Oh, it is completely filled with all the important Yeah, of course, it's real. What did you Okay, then I want you to show the super extravagant, but I really love them. Yeah, they're simple but elegant. Yeah, see the decay starting over here. Oh, this is actually wallpaper, Danny. No, this is a wallpaper. Yeah, it's wallpaper that Yeah, I don't think it's wallpaper Oh yeah, I think it's just painted over something. Painted over like a paper. Yeah, this is wallpaper. Yeah, that's true, but I think they painted over. Yeah, maybe they laid wallpaper on the ceiling this wallpaper just fell down. Be careful, don't let it break. Oh my God, just don't be it's falling over. Didn't want to do Yeah, there's a taxidermy fox Yeah, he does, very, very goofy. I love that but I fixed it again. And just look at Yeah, I love the realness of it. Looks really can see it was a little bit coming off No, but now it is. Yeah, but a slightest touch, it falls Danny. Is that one not absolutely incredible? Yeah, I'm eager to open it up. Yeah, I know what it is. What is it? I try to figure it out. Yeah, I see that Okay, let me see. That's most likely a Bible. Oh, yeah, that book is really old. Oh, and if I'm not mistaken, it's still in Latin. Yeah, this looks like Latin. Oh, it even has music in it for the choir. Yep, so this is a Bible, right? No, that's um... How do you call it? Um, literally? I think it's something and it's used in church. Then this Oh, so the priest doesn't read from a Bible? No, no, I didn't know. No, no, the the Bible is only recited in small priest reads from. These are the Wow, that's why he has all these marks. it's the second part of the that's why it's easy like this, But just look at the size of this book. I going to put it carefully back over here. And then we have the dining table. I don't know but it seems like six chairs around the table. even another animal on the middle of the I think it's a ferret. Ferret. Ferret, is the name. Wow, it's not in good shape, but no, it's cute. table again, a wonderful chandelier hanging Yeah, see on this side. Oh, Danny, the hallway about the man with the this is the man that we also just saw in Exactly, wow, that's beautiful. That is beautiful. Yeah, just let me point it yeah, nothing more. It doesn't have a purpose. Yeah, no, not at all. And the fireplace itself, heavily used over the years. The Wow, so crazy. And it's completely sort of golden pieces here in And then, of course, we've seen this so much in dog keeps coming back in abandoned places. Yeah, in France, or is it just a national animal or can Google, because it really appears a lot exactly. And this one is one of the largest ones though. And behind it, have a look at that mirror. the top. And the top has two lions. Daddy, yeah, over here. This is definitely one of the very old picture. Let's see if I can look much. No, it doesn't tell much. Let's place the families that used to live in this castle. very old. Yeah, you can see that this seat And up there, we have a picture of all pictures. Pictures, oh, these are small I think it says. Yeah, '31. Danny, I cannot see my God. Yeah. I also love this lantern here. And was this for a candle? It was just converted middle. Yeah, they just put it up later on with that electricity was invented, so they had to Just curious, what's inside of here? Yeah, of And then let's see this chair over here in the little bit delicate, but the depictions on it. people. Wow, really beautiful. Okay, get yourself another incredible room. Follow me. I welcome Just have a look at this room; it's so beautiful. white ceiling. Yeah, and it just, I don't know, here. Yeah, it feels alive. I love the centerpiece This is not a grand wing piano. This piano has two it's a petite grand piano or just a baby grand interesting. This is also called a living room of the living room. Yeah. W. Hoffman, it says over almost tuned. It's still in really nice shape, very good shape. Yeah, yeah, it's in good shape. Even the music notes are here. Oh my God. And then here we also have a statue standing on expression. Yeah, wonderful, I wouldn't say, and the taxidermy animals all have like a weird I forgot to point out this one here in the a lot about the people. They were very artsy; they house in that way. True. And also very religious, you don't see that many religious depictions And besides, yeah, I just hit myself on the they also loved to go out into the fields to an occupation that you see a lot in castles of very decayed. I think he saw better look at this fireplace then. I love it. It's but this one is completely decorated Kind of a French symbol. It's it's just a symbol of Louis. It's because of the a lot of French kings were called Louis. But a symbol of France because of the name of the but I really love it, and it's beautiful. still has a piece of wood inside of we have the mirror, and it looks like And now, I have to point out this ceiling. It's how they painted all of this. Yeah, it must there's also &quot;CF&quot; or &quot;CT&quot; in the middle there. the family name? Yeah, the &quot;T,&quot; I don't know, and names because they would get together and... yeah. list of the most beautiful chandeliers that I've yeah, it's just different because of the color--the of the contrast that I really like it. Yeah, it's just a very elegant chandelier hanging here Can we go to that corner first? Yes, because here on the wall. 1916, wow. This was, I presume, Russell. Yeah, a beautiful Jack Russell. Jack they are. So most likely, they were here. two young girls that used to live in this place. look very charming. There are a couple of seen better days, but it's a wonderful one. What is... oh, that's the skull of a deer. Okay. Don't you think there was something missing, because all the walls are like that. Oh yeah, that. Interesting. I think you should also show not that special. Yeah, they're just curtains, but well with the colors in this room. Mhm. And then can see all the games are still on top of the The King, yep. Wow. I also love these chairs. is beautiful. You mean a praying chair, right? Okay, I'm not familiar with And here's another one of those velvet tables to watch out with the photo. We can... I think it seen this before. Yeah, French tables have a this is just a normal coffee table. And then, oh, see. Let's see, you try. Yeah, we can see it, but Okay, let me show you this picture one of the inhabitants as well. the velvet. Yeah, let me put this back because it. Beautiful lady back on the table. While you this little painting in the corner here. Feels somewhere. Yeah. Wow, Danny, what a room. That [Music] Okay, let me take you through here, be careful! There's a spider above your head. Oh because nobody comes here. Go, go, go. I'm okay, because nobody comes into these places. We are resembles that chair we just saw. Yeah, the same the other one was just sepia. This one's design is Oh yeah, it's full of stuff. Do you know what musical instrument. Uh, tambourine? Tambourine, I is. It's the same word in Dutch. Yeah, same word The coat is even hanging here from the people, And I invite you to go into this room, Danny. Wow, was quite surprised when I first saw this one. one was actually for a billiard table, and when table would be underneath here. This would be but the billiard room. Yeah, this was the billiard You can even see the sticks in the corner. Oh Wow. Oh my God, I didn't see this bench either. bench is beautiful. Have a look at this bench. made out of leather. I love the dragon that deteriorated but crazy amazing. This is falling billiard room without nice liquors? True. Leslie, One thing, you were talking about the chandelier, this place and built exactly for this place, &quot;David,&quot; and it has a king on it. Yeah, and if hearts, the spades, the clovers. Yeah, everything. if I ever own a castle, I want a playroom like always discover in these places if you look props to Danny for seeing that. Yeah, that's a fireplace over here with fleur-de-lis carved into and do you see that symbol with like an A and kind of these stones throughout the house. Oh yeah, in here, and there's a light fixture, if I'm not or maybe a ruler or something, I don't know. Oh or something. No idea. The fireplace has been used the fireplace being on, people playing smoking a big fat cigar. That must have been room. This one's different. In this castle, from the others because this is called a square This is just to play music. For example, they were is not like a showpiece; it's not a special piano, it's one that could be used heavily. living room one, probably. Yes. It must have been it still plays? Oh yeah, it's from Paris, 1827. love the chairs. I haven't pointed them out Danny. If you look underneath the piano, you that's normal. That's for the pedals. Do you know or pull the chords. For example, if you press don't press it, you just get a short note, see? don't play piano, so it's very interesting. I also Just, I want to show this doorway as well. Every design about it. Yeah, very different from very, very Italian. Yeah, I always see this in have this much Italian influence. Wow. Hold crazy room. Over here to this side, we and it's eye-wateringly beautiful. It's a why I wanted to come to this place. Yeah, I let's visit it and let's film it because that's Danny? Yeah, you don't see this often. No, in French places. It's beautiful. Yeah, it's I'm going to start with this mirror. Huge mirror. cool. There seem to be a lot of mirrors and it even has a compartment down here. Oh, yeah, think it was more of a chamber pot chair. We have rope hanging there to hold up the curtain. The are wonderful. The curtains are beautiful. Without ordinary bedroom, but they transform it into bright red color, as you can see on the screen. sleep. Look at the bed; the bed sheets are still I love the bed itself as well, with Danny. A couple of statues left there on top this candle. Really beautiful. Yeah, and even I love these curtains. These curtains, if I'm Okay. They make these three arches on top, that's they're kind of Imperial, Napoleon style. You it's beautiful. And even the wardrobe is Can you see if there's some clothing left in here, Okay, let's close this up. To this side... oh, the there's not much. It's a bit overthrown. Just desk. Very big. See if I can open it up. There's even a sink area over here in the bathroom. rooms that was used in this place. Yeah, that's that's very French, and this room is also [Music] Most of the rooms on this floor are absolutely here in the back that's quite interesting. here. This room has a very beautiful ceiling absolutely crazy. This middle part with the else. And then in the back there, you see how know the exact abandonment date, but there's so it's been there for a long time. Let's not Okay, upstairs. Let's go up. I feel like the it's absolutely beautiful. This I love it. Just look at it; it looks like we are sort of in a fortress, but it's you're very clumsy today. And here is you can see. That's definitely because they were anymore. Have you ever used one of these? No, press the button to go down or up. Yeah, that's Look at this, Danny--the chandelier hanging I have to point out the crown molding it's so beautiful. It has birds and these holding this chandelier. It's just beautiful. definitely. And this is also in the same matching and complementing each other If you come over here, I have a picture this place. It looks like a wedding nicely dressed up. Wow. Want to go to this side I touch the ceiling. This upper level is really floor. Can I show it? Yeah, sure. Oh, there are a same man? Oh yeah, this is him. My God, he together with a child. These are some wonderful I like this one a lot, and this one as well. Was okay. And here you see him in his younger years, dining room, there was a photo of him painting look at this one. Yeah, that's beautiful. Wow, That is beautiful. So this is probably Let's show this room. This looks like a children's Yeah, even some hand puppets hanging on the wall. I didn't. I never had it. No? No, it's funny to Pictures of the children, a baby, a small lady. years. Yeah, the evolution of this person you still has some books on it. Oh, I love these Yeah, those little books are incredible, I'll show the bed first before we go wonderful thick oak wood bed. Very typical for grain of the wood as well; you can see And of course, a matching drawer over to this Hey Danny, that's him. Yep, that's him. Yes, in his younger years. Looks a little bit like him, here, look at that. It's so cool. Oh, a little those sounds. Oh, that's the same lady. Yeah, also wonderful. Danny, no way. M... have shut. woman of this place. Yeah, you're joking me. Wow, this place. So probably she died first, yeah, We have to move fast. Yeah, I think most of you can see the bedroom. There's a nice bed over look at the chair that's standing over here. It's yeah, look, it starts with the dragon up top and it's chipping off, and there's a lion here in the it's deteriorating. Wow, that's a chair. Yeah. look like doctor's bags. Yeah. And then another the house. Yeah, the last one in the castle. other ones. This is called a professional this is where you practice, this is where the sound, everything is more perfect than in Paris. Wow. And those books are also really Those books are illustrations of, um, yeah, L'Illustration. I've seen this so many times in I think it's a different one because I think I don't know because I've seen it in magazines, all the magazines together. You see, Sunday, the first volume, and this is the second volume quickly. Yeah, of course. See, I think it's all I saw a general. Yeah, this is military, you see? Wow, and even a picture left up here, Danny. Very only have that part still to show. What? Show? of these rooms in the castle are a bit overdone, what happened. Even this... yeah, feels a bit for something. This is like a sort of desk area. interesting room. It still seems in rather nice fleur-de-lis, and everything you could imagine. this clock standing above here. My grandfather it's a very popular one. Yeah. And Danny. Oh wow. I love the design of the so beautiful. And a simple bed over in this have to that side. Yeah, yeah, it's the same And let's come over here right now. This is is about the same size as the dining and living but it's more used as an attic, there's a picture standing over here. He looks I think he was in the military or something. Wow. so pretty. Street chairs, as you can see. Yeah, chandeliers all hanging over there on the wall, on Danny, there's a stairway, and I think it highest part. It's already the fourth floor, we are skipping some towers and other areas not very interesting. We don't want this video to is absolutely massive, but most of it is just Oh, a lot of antiques! They had a lot of surplus designed for horses--horse cores, horse stalls. Of course, because they were so rich, they had a of things. Wow, you can even go up to the roof! there's even a small window to go outside. I really enjoyed going through here. It was it as well, Danny. Yeah, of course! This was this one and so happy that we could document subscribe to the channel, and write a comment check out the man behind the camera, Mr. Danny. my man. You're welcome. In the description, support the Bros of Decay and help us travel follow us on our social media because we post all very much. See you next week in another [Music]