Where do all of our punctuation marks come from? How did we go from just these to all of these? Find out right now in another RobWords. Now, I'm going to start with something This. This here is the space we leave between words because before we get onto the dots, We should not take these helpful little granted because they haven't always been a given. Did you know Greeks didn't use them? Their sentences were just The Romans were just as bad. They experimented with putting dots that idea and went back to this interminable mess. All of this meant the Romans and reread things until they understood them. And what's more, they would do so out loud, because they found that the rhythms of You know, historians believe that literate members of these two supreme cultures mumbling along with the text like, The practice of reading quietly in the norm until something like the 10th century. And only once English, Irish and the gospels of impenetrable Latin prose - Hallelujah. But are spaces really punctuation? Yeah, well... let's look at the word. Punctuation literally means It's from the Latin for point, punct. And in fact, for several centuries we The word "punctuation" was reserved for the But us starting to use the word markings is one of many pretentious So let's do what those renaissance scholars would have bloomin' loved to have done More precisely to the famous Library of Alexandria because that's where the story with a man called Aristophanes of Byzantium. In around the 2nd century BC, he proposed a system to solve the problem which had really hit a low point. And actually, that's precisely what he proposed: Aristophanes put forward a system where where pauses of different lengths should occur. The middle one marked the a little longer. And the top one, longer still. These were called comma, colon and periodos. Hmm, familiar, right? Seems Well no. The Romans had no interest However, Hallelujah once more, Christian writers began to use punctuation They were much more keen on spreading their religion on paper than the pagan You see, they'd written this book called and they wanted to leave minimal space for Punctuation was a great way to do that. So they reverted back to something However, instead of representing pauses, which is what punctuation does to this day. The periodos - having been rechristened the distinctio finalis - was now the and the colon and comma broke So now we're getting there, aren't we? But then, a problem arose. These three points worked well Roman majuscule lettering - what we but scribes had also started to letters of different heights with tall And suddenly it was less easy to at the top or somewhere in the middle. So the system all but falls apart, But that dot is with us now. It because that's what it originally marked. Meanwhile, a new way of denoting It was called the virgule However, over time it shrunk, gained a named after Aristophanes's original marker. Incidentally a comma is still called a I bet I've said that wrong, sorry. Anyway, scholars from both countries So that's the period/full But what happened with the colon? Well, the colon, despite sharing a name actually started out life as It was originally used in chants and it told whoever was doing the chanting - a monk, I guess - that they were supposed to both hence the two elements to it. That pause was a medium-length pause and we now use a simplified version at the start of a list or when The semicolon originates in the punctus versus or "facing mark". It was used by mediaeval scribes to denote the end of a sentence and that usage hasn't because very often you can just stop and your writing still makes perfect sense. It's quite common for people to struggle with the different uses of colons I think it's partly because, despite the colon It just looks harder than a semi - it's actually only the semicolon The semicolon joins two independent The internet can be a dangerous place; You see, you could just as well write that Meanwhile the colon introduces information Luckily, there is a solution: NordVPN, who have very NordVPN has all the benefits of Yes, it'll help you change your online location to protect your privacy and allow you to access but its Threat Protection Pro feature keeps It'll scan any files you download for malware, direct you away from websites known for I have NordVPN switched on all the time. I researched this video at a cafe on an unsecured wifi network but NordVPN kept And I can have it on up to 10 devices. So use my special link nordvpn.com/robwordsvpn to get an exclusive deal with four extra There's a 30-days money-back Now, a huge question mark hangs over But shall I start with the leading theory? It's that our most charismatic of the punctus interrogativus. Sounds promising, doesn't it? I mean This guy came about around 12-hundred years ago, in the court of Charlemagne, The earliest usage we know of from old Charlie's scriptorium Check it out, it appears three times on And in every case, it's at the end of a question. You see that "quid"? That means "what?" in Latin. And what this ascending squiggly line whoever is singing or reciting these lines - to do is to raise their intonation, then stop. Which is what we do when we ask a question, right? So it seems pretty open and shut to me that The problem is we don't have much and there's a big gap between those However, the theory is still better is that the question mark started out life Cats apparently curl their tails The Egyptians did love cats, but Plus what's the dot supposed to represent? Another more complete theory is that it's formed from the first and last letters of the Monks would sometimes save space by like the squiggle on the the enye, started out as an N on top of an N. Anyway, the writing of that Q and O may have got sloppier and sloppier over time But again, where's the evidence If you've got some, let me know. So I'm giving the boffins in Charlemagne's However, the quaestio theory has It fits very neatly with the leading The BANG! Also known as, the So it's thought that this line over a dot started which is itself a Latin exclamation. It could be used to suggest joy like "hurraaaay" or it could just draw attention Yo! I can't do that convincingly. Again, thrifty scribes wanting to save on paper and that gradually simplified admirativus or punctus exclamtivus, which I mentioned this is also called a "bang" that never caught on is called the interrobang, It is an interrogative bang. Printers have lots of other nicknames them apparently are "the screamer", I'm not saying that one. Whatever they're called, one must be careful not to overuse them, lest one seem uncoolly F Scott Fitzgerald - author of the Great Gatsby "like laughing at your own joke". Okay, what's going on with these? Let's talk about quotation marks next. Quotation marks are a funny have made up our mind what to do with them. Should they come alone or in pairs, sit on the ground, be pointy, curved or straight - all of those are used around Europe, by the way. Well, whatever your preference or preferences, they're all thought to Meet this sharp-looking fellow. His name is diple, which is adorable and means He's so called because it This symbol was used by librarians back again to flag up important sections of text. It was placed in the margin - here it the second or third century. Pretty cool right? It was also sometimes placed So it flagged up something important and for later Christian scholars "important" So they start marking quotes from Then they start to use them to In the meantime, the printing press comes along and it becomes awkward to put So they migrate into the body of Is that a pun? If it is, excuse it. - these quotes. But another problem thrown up by the presses is that printers often didn't so they improvised drafting in But to mark them out from other commas they or doubled them or did both. Ta daaaa. A few European languages still mark out quotes with a double double diple - This system appears to have been because they were named after him. Now these pairs of diple are rather use today or chevrons aren't Brackets or parentheses start to pop up in To start with, they are indeed pointy. But by the Here they are being somewhat They'd smoothened sufficiently enough for the theologian Erasmus to coin He described how asides could be marked out Nowadays we have all kinds but if you're talking about medieval you're actually most likely to be which were scrawled all over old documents to help But today, we most commonly use brackets when we The word parenthesis comes from It's for squeezing in extra bits of information. But brackets aren't the only You can use a pair of commas Or - if you really want to accentuate the Now, this is a pretty new The hyphen though, which is like the dash but It starts to show up in manuscripts where a word has been split between two We also use the hyphen to either join together I actually can't quite get my head around Who cares, I suppose, it's I mean, they're all disappearing. But that usage relates nicely to what the It was a little crescent that to show that it should be read as a single word. The word "hyphen" comes from the Another punctuation mark etymology that gives a clue to its original use The apostrophe starts out life meaning it shows where something a letter or a few letters. And the word apostrophe comes from The idea is that you have turned Incidentally, the word apostrophe also describes their audience to address someone or something like when Hamlet switches to addressing "Where be your gibes now? He's dead mate. Anyway we're concerned with the which still marks where some letters have But we also have this curious And the reason for this is really stupid. It's the result of a misconception that so that Mike's house should be "Mike examples of that formulation being It is rubbish though. In Old English you just stuck an S on the end of a noun to reference it belonging to "Oh silly apostrophe, what are you doing there?" Right, next we shall go for... dot dot dot... ellipsis. An ellipsis - that trio of dots for example, through a lapse, or because a writer doesn't want The use of ellipses is They are all about the interruption of speech, so One of the earliest examples of it is here, where it is actually a stream of This is from 1588, so during Why the three - or more - dots or dashes though? Well, one of the reasons will have been And they had periods up the wazoo. And as for the writers themselves... these trailing dots that just Ellipsis comes from the Greek for "to way of leaving someone wanting more. So let me attempt to do Thanks a lot for watching. If you've enjoyed And also, I've just created a load You should check those out And also, get on that big old NordVPN deal too. That's all from me this time. Period. Full stop.