Nintendo is one of Japan's most famous the company has helped create some of our I remember playing Super Mario 64, Getting up early in the morning to play Diddy Good memories. But I am not going Instead I am going to talk about a later Introduced in 2006, the Nintendo Wii began as zagging. And at first it worked brilliantly. But the market changed and the innovative the PS2, the console is largely forgotten - This video is about the Wii's rise and fall. Nintendo began developing what would eventually The GameCube was Nintendo's attempt to retake It failed in that aspect. The GameCube's Core gamers thought it was &quot;toy-ish&quot;. It while the competing PlayStation 2 doubled as a DVD The PS2 won the generation with over 155 the best-selling game console of all time. The The game console market was more competitive in giant Microsoft had entered the fray Playstation in technical specs and capturing a Competing in the technical arms race between Sony There was some good news. Nintendo still with the Game Boy Advance and its follow up, the with its 150 million units sold, Nintendo decided to turn a weakness they leaned into the argument that the Wii Then-CEO Satoru Iwata said it best: &gt; While some people put their money on the screen, The Wii's CPU power was nowhere near that of MHz processor from IBM - less than a third of It did not have big hard drives. The Xbox The PS3 had a 40 GB hard drive. The Wii not counting SD card storage. The Wii did not have HD It could not play DVDs nor could The PS3 did more than just play DVDs, it can some online capabilities, it paled compared to But what the Wii did have going for it family oriented, and offered something new. Nintendo targeted the Wii as the genders and cultural backgrounds. Its (30% lower than the competition) made The company targeted non-traditional gamers To be more specific, women and The first advertisements featured a number of Wii at home. A later TV campaign featured British The games themselves reflected this featured easy-to-play titles The console itself included the sports simulation &quot;Wiimote&quot; motion controller to mimic real Wii Sports sold 80 million copies In business school, this strategy is referred of the blue ocean is that all companies Red oceans are bloody, super-competitive quality and customer service. They Blue oceans on the other hand are unknown Companies in a blue ocean strategy and can sail on with little to Nintendo's Blue Ocean strategy succeeded The Wii outsold its competitors right launch was Nintendo's biggest ever The company sold 3.2 million units worldwide shortages and was working hard to meet demand. The Wii received praise for making Researchers found a variety of unexpected papers about its usage in physical Business school professors rushed to write papers Sales were strong going into 2010, spurred on by a price cut. But blue Wii sales started to plateau and then its competitors chugged along. By 2012, were outselling the Wii on both the hardware both in terms of total sales, but by now So what went wrong? Why couldn't the Wii Sony and Microsoft fell to second and third place generation. But they keyed in on certain aspects In 2010, Sony launched the Playstation Move, a motion sensing game controller platform to the Wiimote and a camera tracks Microsoft went a step further and infrared sensors to detect movement without Sony and Microsoft did not replicate the But they did not have to. They only needed enough job in replicating the It reminds me of how Instagram launched Instagram checked SnapChat's growth. The feature scratched And then there were the gaming partners. The of its generation, but it failed to turn those To give a better understanding of what I mean There are two types of games and accessories There are &quot;first-party&quot; items - things made And you got &quot;third-party&quot; items, The life of a video game console depends a lot on Gamers will keep playing a console if they can is one example. The game was first released in It is such an important driver of sales that PS3 and Xbox360, but also the PS4 and Xbox Nintendo has a fine roster These include iconic brands Mario, and Pokemon. But there are only so many A console is not going to last unless its third A few years into the Wii's existence, third for its platform. By 2011, just 20 third-party on the other hand saw 138 releases, adding more Third-party developers did not adopt This appears to be for several reasons. First, imperfections in the hardware held back For instance, the first-party Designed so that players can the developers had to rework the button layout If it was hard for the in-house developers, it early game that incorporated the motion dynamics, One said that its fights were like &quot;two cavemen Second, the Wii hardware was underpowered. and that people are most creative But we cannot deny that it didn't create problems. The hardware's lack of oomph forced around the need to have &quot;photo-realistic&quot; with some beautiful standouts. I loved Okami's But in general, that was an exception Third, unlocking novel gaming experiences with the Wii progressively required the Whether that was a plastic instrument for Balance Board, not every user bought these and And lastly, 2011 saw the beginning of the rise they did not have to purchase a $250 piece to play a simple video game. Now, everyone The Apple App Store and its free-to-play games disrupting the disruptor. is far larger than any console maker out there. Nintendo attempted to bottle lightning a second the Wii U. But consumers saw its big GamePad tablet device and were disappointed by The Wii U sold very poorly and Nintendo It sold less than 15 million units, a Reflecting on it, you might call the Wii a Nintendo hit a home run off the unproven idea and But to go out on a limb, I would argue lasting impact on popular console gaming culture. An ecosystem needs participation from third succeed on your platform then your ecosystem is