Hi everyone. Today I'm excited to have Anna Runkle and she makes videos on YouTube helping people can do about it. I love her practical and helpful and also her experience mentoring other people ready to hear what she has to say. Today we're your brain and your nervous system get you've experienced trauma Okay. Well, Anna, thank you so much for being off, would you mind sharing kind of the short try to keep it short, because interestingly, when For me, sometimes talking about hard things that of talking about it and teaching about it - like I because if I just start going down the rabbit hole I'll forget what room I'm in what day it is and That's what dysregulation is like. it can really grew up in Berkeley California. So that puts me crazy time in California. And my mom was very much going on. My dad was the complete opposite. about stuff. And one one memory I have is when and he it was news of the Vietnam War. And I Vietnam War? Like what is this about that they're answered &quot;Well, it's dududu,&quot; and then the other my dad had punched my mom and knocked her that happened. Otherwise we lived in a nice home, but what was going on with them a lot was And soon alcoholism took its toll, and we did And for most of my youth, I grew up quite poor and I have siblings - one of them died from very populated with other people who had alcohol really helped me in my healing was when I The 12-step world was incredibly helpful. It place where I could keep talking. Now, back then One of the things that happened about the time was my mom had cancer. She was in the And right about then I got attacked randomly had my jaw broken, my teeth broken. It was just I hear from a lot of people on in my audience now we get it pretty good locked up, and we function, Not everybody can function well at every time comes in and boo! it just sets the whole thing on So my mom died, I was attacked, and somebody And it was like this perfect storm for and all the things that went with it, you but if anybody out there grew up with there was all kinds of like risk of sexual non-supervision. We didn't have enough food. i never took the SAT - I didn't even know what like a smart kid. So we had we had all the classic But so when my childhood trauma came up, I had I had a head injury at the same time. I like just even focusing enough to use a phone. they didn't have a they didn't know what that the doctor. They did a CAT scan. They're like And I was sitting there like &quot;You have to help use a key in the lock.&quot; And they're like &quot;Well, a lifetime of brain injury from the neglect And then what happens, as you know so well, is a lot of self-defeating behaviors that come people to hang out with, particularly boyfriends. dysregulation. Right when you're in stress, everything you're trying to do. So I just kept I'd get a good job, and then I would say something dysregulated. And so it was very hard for me just sort of coming down. The closer, the older something was really wrong. So I was going to a talk about it. Let's, you know, tell me what me this. Tell me what your parents did.&quot; Because then. That was their best understanding of what I would just go into this deep dysregulation where and it was almost like I was I was and say the things you're supposed if I just keep talking, I will feel I was feeling worse. And soon I was feeling so it was because I was afraid she was going to have And that's a bad place to be. Right. Yeah. And that point, the night when I was losing last friendship with my constant drama and you know. That's what it's like to be in trauma to other people. I always say it's like having and you're sitting there trying to pretend to So this woman came along. She was an acquaintance; and for some reason, I decided to tell her, I said I don't know why I knew she was a safe person Let's have a cup of tea. i have totally felt that alcoholic from the time, she was 12 the first time no explanation for why I act like one sometimes, she got really into drinking, and by the time and so she had to go to AA. And she got sober in And then her miracle happened. And she met this writing exercise of writing fears and it was as a prayer. Very 12-steppy. You write your Well, at the time, I you know, God you bad attitude towards spiritual, religious people. view on this. Like I think there's something was a power that could help me. But she said, so you, how would you feel about just pretending I thought &quot;Well, why not.&quot; And so I tried couple of weeks where I was trying it, and then this prayer. I had a couple of very experimental How'd that go? I recovered. Like within two and I didn't want to die. Wow. And there it was. strong feelings of coming back to life, kind of. a heavy smoker at that time; two packs a day for self-regulating and handling my my emotions. Yeah. A few years into all of this I was able to be and so my lungs were always completely I had this distinct feeling that the cells re-healed and made pink again. And and then I And I I wouldn't really swear by that being a my experience. I just felt like I was just getting spending time in nature, and I started running, you know, little little bits of progress at a my other problems, but the first problem that was be on earth, that nobody wanted me here, and that had a profound experience of of being real and And that right there became my new my new floor, I belong here. Like life may be hard today, and but I belong here and I want to stay - I want to for me. And that's really when I mark the healing Thank you for sharing your story and Let's just pause for a second. Are you - I should Are you doing - are you okay? Yeah, yeah. You Okay, cool. Well, thank you. Thank you. That's sponsoring, and I think I sponsored something like I learned a lot. I mean, I I just a supportive person and how to help somebody and it's been positive. And I still sponsor I've taken my message - I took it out of the is for CPTSD I realized - this was a turning point my parents were alcoholic, my brother was an alcoholism in my family; I'm very very affected by Like it was, and I had so much to share about it, and to learn to detach and to get the focus on I realized that I had something that was a I used to say &quot;Oh, I think there must be a kind But then Bessel Van der Kolk's book came The Body Keeps the Score and CPTSD: From Surviving what is CPTSD I was just like &quot;Oh my god, that drinking.&quot; Like that was the best construct I had. And that day was such a relief. It was such a years of Al Anon and felt good about all that, I behave when I'm dysregulated: the emotional fake it through situations when I'm so flustered Yeah. There's a word for that and it's a thing and reaction to an abnormal set of circumstances. And of myself, as well as the people who hurt me. We have it. And the fact that I for - well, like why I'm the one who got to heal and didn't get is such a miracle that I can only have when something so wonderful happens, a natural rooftop and just go &quot;Everyone!&quot; Yeah. And up with your yammering about CPTSD?&quot; And I'm you blame me if I just wanted to talk about it You know, complex PTSD causes cancer. There's an had childhood trauma. Also, heart disease, learning disabilities, dementia, reproductive and it really - the part that people don't partner relationships, our marriages and romantic sends it right into the next generation. So so I about this. I don't even know what I'm doing. but my my life had brought me to that point together one day, and I had a word for it. And I Al Anon, like I feel like I should write a book the word for it, then my Crappy Childhood Fairy an audience. And I never expected it to be like but it's completely taken over my my career. what a joy it is to wake up every day like excited helpful. Yeah, you've got something to share and Yeah. So cool. So I know you know how it is. Yeah, That's awesome. Okay, so let's talk a little bit and you've alluded to it. Tell us what is Well, so I'm not a scientist. I'm not a clinician. And I first learned about it I think from Pete literature about trauma, but other trauma - aspects of it. But dysregulation is the thing to understand it, what it is is everybody gets the feeling as just being flustered, overwhelmed, just feel like I have headphones on; sometimes just like - Yes, it's like over-stimulated. Yeah. your brain can't process stuff, right? Yeah. like - yeah - dinging going on around you, yeah? there's a lot of self-attack and hiding and shame it's very hard to - your perception is wrong, so trust your gut&quot; - when you're dysregulated, I'm dysregulated and someone hurts my feelings, think to say. Destroy this friendship. Run away,&quot; are able to identify when you're dysregulated, we all talk about between the impulse and the if I know I'm dysregulated I have a rule like Yeah. And I teach people like don't drive important conversation when you're dysregulated. being drunk, but it's something like that. You're And so for me, the cues that I'm dysregulated - really easy ones is I start to feel numb in my Then my whole hands go numb. I can't really feel That's been going on all my life. And I but it's dysregulation. What's going on is um our of a lovely pattern, like you might see the lines they're they're like if you were to measure them doing, they're literally kind of just going out and they're going at the wrong time. And then respiration, what they are meant to do is, up a little bit; I exhale and it slows down And what I learned from my reading is that those trauma feels triggered or intensely stressed, consciously if my heart and breathing are kind experts think that it's in that dysregulation is lapses happen. Your body can't fight what's of my symptoms, before I healed, I had a lot stress-related, and the doctors would write me off it wasn't helpful. But I had asthma, I had back migraines. And when I get stressed out, I still know - I've been practicing now for a long time. kind of work it back out of my body. And I found So that's part of it. Also, this daily writing two things together made a big difference in me day and be like &quot;Oh, I'm actually really tired or sunshine or I'm craving oranges or -&quot; you know, my instead of me just like overriding every impulse. touched on the health consequences of it. And does go downstream, and probably trauma is one of terrible chronic health problems there is. Yeah. about it about yet. Like the number of unintended correlated with the intensity of trauma they had lot of things, people have their very comfortable you know, on accident? Right. And everybody a baby to love&quot; or &quot;Oh, it's the political party did. And I think I think by and large trauma is yeah, totally. I I think so too. And I think super helpful because they maybe don't understand, were looking for help for years, and kind of the a problem over and over and over again and hope many people, that makes them more upset, and it yeah. The experience of abuse or the experience of get stuck, right? Like this this sympathetic And you mentioned like with your friends, right, and that's like the fight/flight/freeze response, someone away to protect yourself. And this is all response to the danger that your body perceived as as a child, right? Yeah, and and I've come to I love my CPTSD because it saved me. It saved me and it kind of left me intact and innocent. And is there's a completely good and innocent person that's such a beautiful way to frame it, because reactions we have with PTSD actually serve a Your brain, your deep wisdom is trying to something that seems life-threatening I I have a funny word for it: I call it crap Crap. C-r-a-p. Because I'm the Crappy Childhood to crap. And as a kid, you learn it's like it's terrible boyfriend who I'm scared of; no problem, but I can fight. And I'll have like a piece of and I'll handle this. I can handle this. You look actually allowed us to handle it you know, just wither up and die out of neglect. completely dysfunctional. So that's one of the god bless you for going into denial. Thank god Because it's something like a medically induced have had a terrible like physical trauma; they'll like no energy required for them to just heal. the maladaptations of complex PTSD are, is it's of hardship, usually in the late teens, early But there comes a day when you have the me. Now I need to learn the new adaptation, which comes along and asks me out but it turns out who's done that - I can see it. I need to be able Yeah. And I didn't have that. So that was a healing, I had this these incredible blind spots person in my life. When when I have a conflict how confused about that and toggle between &quot;It's all their fault.&quot; Yeah. If you have the power of you have - the world is your oyster. Now you're the normal kids had, is they had a way to think and and not just self-sabotage and burn all their a sad way of dealing with it. So a lot of what I and then to start solving the life problems that joyous process to start experiencing that, and your life. Get into a pickle. Get support from I get, I help people get connected with people you know, which you also know the importance of, because with PTSD they come up so strongly just blow everything up. But you and you have a tool to keep - like there's an there's a lot of either complete overt avoidance people act all extroverted and friendly and have a never really give themselves to anything. They're haven't been able to manage yet. And it ends up of the symptoms are your friends don't really get never really been yourself in their presence them either. And it's this it's this big, false outcomes of having trauma, but a lot of the they're having more obvious overt problems that &quot;I'm in an abusive relationship.&quot; That's common. myself pulling away from people all the time. And I want to do is think of how I can get out of it.&quot; it's that people are just so triggering, and say something damaging becomes crippling. It involves a combination of learning to so that they don't have the better of you. They're at the edge of rage. You have something to do with of the challenges for it too. One of the things I emotional dysregulation, which is kind of part of and it's widely recognized as part of other emotional dysregulation. And I just, I had dysregulated sometimes, and and almost everybody what that looks like is a newborn baby. I have two I would hold - they - I would come to them their bodies were rigid and their faces were red hold them and maybe feed them and let them be just come back into focus and they'd open their completely transformed. And we know what that is sometimes. I just think people with trauma get and more often and maybe has a harder time coming master re-regulation, and it can be learned. It you get dysregulated. You recognize it, right? You ways or not thinking well at all, or you might or you might just know like something's off, or overstimulated. Learning to self-regulate or learn this skill? Well, yeah. First step, you've and I say that like so harshly, but that's it. Can I talked about some of the physical symptoms I have a couple of thoughts that I just assumption, &quot;If I'm having this thought, I'm &quot;I don't need you. I don't need Here we go. That's like a really functional family. Yes. But not for someone who's like, you relationships. Yeah. Or marriage, you know. &quot;I &quot;I don't need you. I don't need anybody.&quot; So and this is one that often comes with emotional the best phrases I ever learned; I learned that emotional memory that comes up. You don't even see things in a bad way. And so sometimes I wake up in a very bad mood. That's what I used to call And I - before I've even opened my eyes, I'm And I know all parents feel like that sometimes; wrong - I have this distorted, exaggerated to do everything. And again, it's clearly an and it causes me to be very difficult to deal He can see it as soon as I open my, you know, he the the stink, right, the stink of dysregulation. and then he leaves the room. And he leaves me minute.&quot; &quot;You need a minute.&quot; You're like &quot;No, I you&quot; - so that's another sign, another - &quot;This is that I tell you everything right now that you're tell people &quot;if you think it's urgent, go If it's urgent that you give somebody a criticism, Anything that needs to be said or fixed in your and it'll be okay.&quot; And that huge - I like that. &quot;Okay, hold on. I'm not gonna do anything about it another minute.&quot; But instead, I take it here. just in case it happens. And I do this twice a am resentful at my husband because I have fear he That's how my prayer begins, you know. I'm just anything about it. I don't have to understand it. I write a thing at the end where I ask for it And nine times out of ten I can't even remember there's stuff we gotta talk about though, and it's possible for me to have that conversation. It actually have a chance to have a conversation in a to respond, and it doesn't end up turning into a be dysregulated for three days, so I have a huge okay. So for the listener out there, the of dysregulation. And you just shared a couple thought you have; it might be something you feel And maybe for the listener, I mean, I would their red flag signs. Like what like I'm - like it might be dysregulated. &quot;If I'm thinking this, right? Or what do you tell people? Well, I love suggestion. That's more reliable than just too when you're dysregulated. Yeah, and then to act on that. Like &quot;Oh, if this is a problem hour or when I'm calm.&quot; Yeah, and you, and you use process through things. Yeah. It helps dysregulated right now. Oh, I'm dysregulated just acknowledging it, starts to then give the situation and isn't just getting carried You - part of you is kind of going &quot;Okay, I'm what's happening; I'm dysregulated.&quot; And that's Yeah. And you can even tell you can tell people dysregulated right now,&quot; and you can also help can be very aggressive or abandoning, and So instead instead you can say &quot;I'm feeling really a break to get my head together, and then we could quarter after the hour? Would that work?&quot; They And you can get tremendous cooperation from a happening. Don't blame them; take care of it and Because they're in the middle of needing Yeah. Yes. I love it. I love it. So what else important. And then come back to the problem. Is Writing, pausing, meditation, and like a Is that some of your basic steps to else you'd add to that? Yes, so I have - I'll and then I have a free course. If anybody wants link with you to share - Yeah, awesome - in the an hour and just see does it feel helpful to you? couple weeks, and you can come ask questions. And where everything I teach begins. You learn this I do carry this with me everywhere, and whether walk into the bathroom - here we are back in the The bathroom is a private place where you a freak-out in a social situation, so you can and get free of it so you can come back out and Um which by the way isn't always being Mr nice avoidance and just suppressing and ignoring And sometimes you need to tell people &quot;Don't ever until you've written because you're too jammed up just nervous system techniques to just get back of my body.&quot; That - I didn't used to understand about is &quot;My nervous system is not communicating And so you can bring yourself back by just sitting chair, and then I just feel my weight in the of therapists have helped people with this. They press your tongue to the back of your teeth. And then then it's left and right. We now know - years, forever, right? How did they deal with it? did they do? They march in formation and say left, And calling out, hearing left, right and moving marching or in martial arts, hearing it and you kind of pull it back together. And doing but when we do this in a group it amplifies the brain science behind this showing that it's and re-regulate. I mean, there's a lot of good this in a practical and understandable way. And if Francine Shapiro's book - I mean, they're like techniques. But basically what you're doing is Yeah. And for people with PTSD, reading right. Reading a paragraph is hard to do. You're triggering. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. So. so. some like patting your feet, patting your contact. Sometimes I just touch my face, you who's like the hero of soccer. You know face during stressful games. And I was like Oh, I'd be terrified if I were a soccer player. field. Yeah. Another one is temperature. You yourself a little sort of nervous system, hello, breathing and cold showers. I find them incredibly cold shower this morning. I've been really on my event a few days ago and it's taken me a while lose track of time when I'm dysregulated, and so that's - a morning routine is, I think, one of with one two or three things that help you to to be ready to pay attention. But also washing you can get to a bathroom sink and wash your It's a place you can have a little privacy and public, it's just too sensory overwhelm, at least nobody knows you're re-regulating. It just the warm water and the soap and just feeling your And next thing you know, you're back. And sometimes when you're in a bad place, you don't is something for friends and couples, is you can somebody's dysregulated. But if you can't handle back into a corner and squish yourself in there. her technique for getting into a swing yourself. I'm like &quot;Yes, that does feel good.&quot; like in residential treatment. When they're I mean, but you can think about this as a child, press into your stuffed animals, squeeze into your restoring your sense of safety. Yeah. I tried a it. Some people really love them though, you know. it wonderful, though? Like so much of what we aspect of ourselves, it's like &quot;No, it's just your other again, and you need some some weight you know, you're not doing anything wrong. I mean, to recreate your childhood&quot; or, you know, I'd And I think there's two ways of looking at some people look at this like &quot;This Yeah. And the other way of looking at this is your Your nervous system has an inherent ability to to re-regulate yourself. Yeah. It wants to reset, heal over. You're designed to heal. And you got let that natural process happen. But it's hard. about how to do it. So. Yeah. Well, that's much for taking time to share your wisdom and Thanks. Oh, I - we're gonna have to talk Yeah, for sure. Yes. And for those of you out so please check out her channel. She's got tons of I'm like &quot;Oh, I can think of three clients right So yeah, keep an eye out for that. And full length conversation - I've cut some to hear the full-length conversation, thank you all so much for being here. Thank you,