Geoff: It has been nearly three weeks since hurricane Helene began its devastating March across the southeast, killing at least 230 people in six states. Nowhere has the storms impact been more destructive than in western North Carolina where entire communities were swept away and thousands remain without power and search crews continue to hunt for at least 80 people who are still unaccounted for. To help us understand the complexity of that search and the challenges those teams are facing, we are joined by Ryan Cole. He is the emergency services assistant director for buncombe county, home to Asheville, and has been on the ground working on this recovery. We appreciate it. How has -- how is the recovery process progressing, trying to find people who are still unaccounted for? &gt;&gt; We have worked through several lists of people where they have been unaccounted for and they are still working to try to identify those people that are still missing and unaccounted for. And as we do that, then we are doing targeted searches in specific areas where the high probability that we might be able to locate any of the victims paid whenever we go out, the targeted searches include removing large amounts of debris and working through hazardous materials and other items to be able to try to work through those to get to victims that might be in those areas. Geoff: Paint a picture for us of the challenges facing your team. How destructive was it? &gt;&gt; We had significant disruptions through the river valleys from flooding. We had significant damage there. Throughout the watersheds as it took out the sides of the hills. We have flooding in the water rises up. It inundates an area with slow-moving water and no moving water. The mountains and watersheds as the water comes out, then that goes down through the mountain valleys, collecting all the water as it goes, creating significant turbulence and destroying things in its path, taking out trees, taking out cars, buildings, anything in its path. On top of the flooding, we also have significant landslides that occurred in the riches as well as your due to the rains and unstable ground that we had from nine inches of rain and prior to the storm even arriving, the ground was saturated with water and as more of the rain comes in, it caused some of that land to dislodge and start down the hill. Once it starts down the hill, it takes everything in its path, homes, cars, forest, everything through that until it comes to a stopping point. Geoff: The governor of north Carolina spoke of what he called a persistent and dangerous flow of misinformation concerning FEMA and the recovering effort. How has that affected the work you and your teams are doing? &gt;&gt; We had misinformation that has been out and anytime we have misinformation that occurs that slows our progress, to be able to help out the citizens in most need. FEMA has been on the ground and in partnership with us along with the state of north Carolina. Many resources throughout the state and United States to assist us in the process of getting to recovery. Geoff: He'll lean was followed directly by molten and much of the focus shifted to Florida. What does western North Carolina need to get back on its feet? &gt;&gt; The first thing, first and foremost, the greatest thing that we need is to remain in the thoughts and prayers of the people across the United States. That is the greatest thing that we can use right now but the biggest thing that we are facing is the infrastructure that we have lost. The power companies have done a significant job in western north Carolina in restoring the power and responders have done a significant job throughout the communities in supporting each individual community and taking care of them. We have had volunteers that have supported through donations and getting things out to the community to support those people but now, we have the infrastructure issues with roadways that are gone for many roadways have been alongside the river banks and those river banks, as they floated, they took out the roadways and it will take quite a while to build that up and a lot of people are looking and they want to do something and they want to give so the one thing that we ask is if you are looking to give, look for those monetary donations that you can do to some of the partnering organizations such as United Way. Continue to give us your thoughts and prayers and the support that you have -- you are giving us so far. Geoff: We appreciate it.