I'm going to attempt to spend the next seven days - Seal me up. Hopefully I don't go insane. For the next seven days. I have to survive in this soundproof white room with zero human contact And because this is actually the most important thing making sure I don't go insane. I worked in psych hospitals for 23 I've ever seen. Anything past 50 hours Can lead to permanent And I'm about to do 168 hours. There is a chance that and go into something And they have to pull me out damage to me. He survived - Is this much harder? He doesn't have social contact. If your brain doesn't have information coming It generates hallucinations, it And all I have to survive for a notebook with a pen, toothbrush with toothpaste a toilet to use the bathroom At this point, it was clear to me to entertain myself Especially on hour nine You're probably wondering The correct answer is 1900. And if you want the roof and floor But more importantly according to my stomach, So if you're wondering how I'm There's a conveyor belt here so I can be fed I think I've been in here around Isn't it crazy that at this point And so far the hardest part of the In hindsight, Before I came in here. Yeah, it would be really nice if Your boy is very hungry. - Did you wash your hands? Oh, he did not. We'll be sending him so he can't guess the time. Like it's 6 p.m. right now, and we're sending him his breakfast. When are my friends I am hungry. I am hungry. Now because this room is soundproof. Even though the food arrived, until I checked 2 hours later. Too hungry to walk. That's a little dramatic man, So when I finally checked. Oh, I was not actually expecting This tastes awesome. It's cold and soggy, and I'm This is great. This solitary confinement set is If this set caught on fire. I would probably burn alive Anyways, I'm going to think about For the next few hours. I try to keep myself as stimulated Wow, that's kind of cool. He's got nothing. If he's already resulting to this I have my doubts that he'll last It's interesting how when you something as simple as a metal plate can be like as fun as an iPhone. He's going This is a very dehumanizing I'm just going to go to bed I think I'm around 40 hours Jimmy's 6 hours off on what time Which means it's around 4 p.m. on day number two. I thought he'd be on track today. Losing my sense of time No matter what I do, These lights are just really messing Maybe I'll just lay here The reason he has insomnia is He wants to sleep this off But what he should be doing that is going to occupy He's climbing the wall. It's the natural human urge He's regressing to primal instinct. Why did I think it was 4pm? Shouldn't that mean it's 9pm? And by the time I had gotten around to eating my first meal, Don't get me wrong, the food looks I'd rather starved and So... And when my second meal had arrived, I felt like only minutes had passed. What just came through the conveyor Wait. How long has it been? Am I supposed to eat both or... It definitely was day two but I didn't eat much of the because I didn't Well, no... At this point, I had no idea how long that first meal was sitting Did you see he's getting a little paranoid? That's the thing that can get worse It's only day two. I'm not sure what to do. I think I'm going to just see One, two, three, four. It looks crazy, right? 565, 566, 567 When you're in a situation 999. What's crazy is to just succumb to it. 1,000. As this progresses, he's going And I got to give it to him. Because later in this challenge Do you think I'd get it? Do you think I'd? And while my strategy to sleep did help pass the time, it ended up I see food over there. It's freakin soggy and cold. How long has this been sitting here? This food's been sitting there I would have given anything to eat It would have been nice Well, Normally, because we're working on I'm usually, like, incredibly stressed. As of right now, I don't really feel that stressed because I have this severe FOMO going on in the world. It's weird. It's a different emotion It's pretty crazy I'm starting to get really bored This is getting very hard on me I'm bored. Help. I was nowhere near the 168 so by hour 65, How do you do a handstand? I wish before I came in here, I had someone teach me the basics He's going to have to invent to keep himself from experiencing I'm just going to envision There's green grass, He's literally making up scenarios Oh my God. All in all, it's very sunny. I hear birds. You've ruined my walk in the park. Oh my God. We're watching him slip into madness. They gave me more food. But it looks like we got some rice, This is the best meal I've gotten If you look right here, and any ordinary human But I'm going to count it 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 265, 266, 267, 307, 308, 309, 310, 421, 422, 423, 424. 445, 446, 447. There are 447 grains of rice This information probably profoundly I'm feeling pretty tired, which means it's I wasn't even halfway through the challenge I'm going to get some more Zs in the which proved to be because I actually slept We're officially halfway - 84 hours. And we're going to tell that Just kind of mix it all up for him. I mean, he could still I am hungy. Hungy I am. What are we working with here? What is this? Bro's never heard And that wasn't the only thing What is this called? This is a... ...a roll. This is a lot of sauce for one roll. Kind of tastes like ketchup. How does he not notice That's an N. - Yeah! You guys forgot to take these No! Every time he finds a letter, I hope those weren't That I was magically supposed and then put it together Surely that's not what they wanted Jimmy's about to watch this when Depression. At this point, the bright lights I have a ginormous headache right now, What is going on to my body? Well, he did ask for more food he is getting all the calories he needs. But the reason for that he thinks he's starving. I ended up checking for food This is oddly soothing. Do you think I'd get a concussion You should probably stop. I should probably stop. There's a bag of McDonald's here. It's suspiciously light. If there is not McDonald's in this There actually is. Let's go. Every time I get a meal, it's like I feel human again. I can't stop smiling. I'm so happy. And then the second I finish it, I feel a wave of depression The seconds are starting I would try to guess what time My mind is slowly deforming I need to occupy myself better. We're going to grab this McDonald's as well as this cup And now we have basketball. LeBron, Steph, Kobe, I think I was always better Strike! That was not what was supposed to happen. And then I remembered... Oh, there's a fork on it. That I had an indestructible plate I am going to throw this so far, it is hilarious. I'm bored. I still have two days left inside at some point It's day four. No matter how much Or burp. Do not let me out of this room Okay, Jimmy, My instincts tell me which means And whoever's editing this, how many hours Hopefully I think he's going to get angry what's going on. Is a man not allowed to have privacy? There's a camera there. There's a camera. A camera, a camera, camera, There's I'm going to go insane. What if we throw the camera Genius. I'll treat it like bowling. Somehow I hit my finger. I severely underestimated Just thinking about but I kind of feel like an animal Like, I feel like I lost If I had to guess, I would say I really miss my girlfriend Even Nolan. Even Nolan. Mentally right now I'd say I'm Like, this is very inhumane. I've been in here so long are about me in this room, and But then I wake up What time is it? I would pay so much money Let's go over why I think there I've slept five times. Reason number two, and I've also pooped five times Reason number three, I've grown a lot of hair and this usually does If for some reason... If for some Or God forbid, it's somehow I will lose my mind. While I was sleeping, one time that I counted to 100,000. And so when I woke up, I decided to do a thousand laps You know, for old times sake. That'll be the marker. 1, 2, 3. Watching back this footage, I resorted to walking in circles A thousand is way too many. I'm already starting to get dizzy. This entire challenge. I've been getting water out of this this uh... this is... it... I'm not... Bro. Cirkul is a flavor cartridge you can screw on your water bottle There's over 100 different flavors that are all zero calories Moving this tripod is miserable. Choose and then start drinking away. It honestly adds so much flavor I've been drinking fruit punch and it actually makes the water I'm going to walk back and forth These cartridges also last for which is good because the boys suck Sometimes I got to use the same one If you want to start or just want your water good in general, or your local I've tried everything to keep myself entertained It's not working. And after I finished all my Cirkuls, Karl brought back to people We're here. Hey, check it out. That's the faces of the guy Would you say this is easier or In comparison, I think I'd rather have like And now that the tables had turned Bailey I'll show you guys They sent an empty tray. He's about to freak out. I don't feel bad at all. This is what he gets. I bet every dollar in my bank No way! You hungry, Jimmy? Eat this! No, we're not doing this. We're not doing it. This is the most stimulation Well, you got to I probably deserve that. Imagine this You just go to a white room That would be miserable. When I sleep. I dream of me in the outside world. And when I'm awake, I'm and to be honest, miserable. So the more time I spend sleeping, Let me out. I'm Batman. I feel dead. I really need to get out of here. We did seven days on a raft, And now seven days If I had known how hard this would If that hour number in the top left I'm going to lose my mind. I am feeling extremely lonely. I miss my girlfriend. This is torture. Is he crying? He's not doing well. He's just like napping on the floor, getting happy when he gets snacks, I think there's 8 hours left and then they're going And I am free. I hope. I pray. Please be 8 hours. He thinks he's sleeping through That's what he thinks this is. So it's going to be a rude To be honest it's concerning. I give it maybe another 2 to 3 hours I'm going to enjoy my last meal, - Did he just say it's his last meal? Well, that's ironic because it's 24 hours. Any hour now, they're going So I'm going to clean up You know, I was trying to make up I'm just bored. I thought coming into this experiment, mental clarity, maybe But in reality, all I'm walking away of being able to throw things out Or maybe not. There is just no world where there's I can't do another 24 hours in here. I've had my limit, There's just not 24 hours left. I just don't. I refuse to believe that. So any second now, any second now, any second now. To pass the time, One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22. 5422, 5423, 5424, 5425. I swear to God I'm sad. I'm sad. I am sad. I am sad. I don't want to be here. Get me out of this room. I don't want to be here. This is barely human. He's lying in bed, covering his eyes. No excitement. This is totally How is he going to act? It's I'm worried he's going to be He's just collapsed We've never pushed him Well because he's been totally deprived Be gentle, like a little kid Well, there's 10 minutes left, - Thank you. I'm going to die. Ten, nine, eight. Seven, six, five, four... Hold on. Three, two, one. Oh, my gosh. Hey, Jimmy. Sorry, It's not as bright out here. How is it, dude? I'm actually kind of lightheaded. You know, it's crazy, I kind of forgot how to interact Where he's going? It's actually relieving to not stare at a bright light. It's like the ceiling is awesome. This is the happiest Honestly, I thought I was perpetually Follow me outside. I want to see the sun. Oh, my God. It's dark out. So nice to see the