There are tons of different types of bad levels There are levels where all there is to do, corridor, there are levels where we have to them immediately kill us, there are stages stages where we have to take all our courage, can't see, but at one point there is a single invisible exit key. Those types of levels, are probably among they also raise a question, that we as Super Can we do worse? Is it possible to improve those horrible Mario much much worse? Well, today we are going to finally answer take a look at pick a door, empty swim, leap spam levels, and we will try to worsen all So are you ready? Let's do this! Okay, so first let's take a look at pick So the first question that we have to answer, worse, is why is it exactly that pick a door Luckily this is easy to answer: It is just if he walks through one of those doors. There is no way for our green Mario to know enters it. But those stages also have a problem. Once Luigi found out which door is the correct That's definitely a problem if we try to because after a while the pick a door mechanic Luckily that's easy to fix! So here Luigi finds himself in the middle There isn't much going on here, there are corridor that leads towards four doors. The path towards the exit-flag is blocked Three out of the four doors transport luigi the 1 remaining door is blocked, and transports Hm ... but which door should our green plumber Well, looks like luigi decided to go through towards it, I mean, there are arrows pointing is the correct one. Aaaaand .. .. .. Hooray! It was the right one, weegee got teleported to the famous exit flag is open! That was fun, let's do it again! So luigi once again makes his way through As a side note, in case anyone is thinking you! It took a lot of work to make it look so unfinished, Anyway, so luigi stands, once again in front one with the arrows, and he once again... Well that is unfortunate I guess. So what is going on here? Well the answer is actually surprisingly simple. We use two clown-car randomizers at the top one. In the earlier part there is the first clown a two state block, or does nothing. Then the door part is loaded, both clown cars top of blue ones, and one on top of red ones. Depending on the randomized state of the on/off or the one to the left is allowed to load, one out of 4 different states. All four of those brick blocks are spawn blocking is able to load in once luigi goes through If he went through the door that is now blocked is sent back, otherwise he touches the deadly So in this level it is always truly random Hooray! Next let's try to make find the hidden block So find the block levels are most of the times find the block. So those are obviously pretty bad since there there is definitely still room for deprovment. See the problem is the following, it usually once, until toad finally finds the question That's obviously not a lot of fun, but things So check this out, here toad once again finds desperately looking for a key. But this time there is something else going to jump once. If toad jumps once while looking for the evil soon as he jumps a second time, the floor, which definitely makes this level a lot worse! Hooray! So how do we count how often toad jumped? Well, we do it with two things, first there that trigger a two state block as soon as little device, This neat little device is device is a real time, global counter, that 2. Icicles are global ground, so everything that loaded. The shell is now blocked by this muncher, line block. So as soon as we activate a two state block, and kills the muncher during this process. But now the shell is still entrapped, this But if we activate a two state block a second time, the path forward opens up, and the shell those two munchers. Muncher drops down, p-switch triggered, floor Hooray! The cool thing about this design, is that In this tremendously bad stage, this device mushroom is on the completely other side of Excellent, next let's try to make leap of So leap of faiths are basically blind jumps They are usually considered to be quite bad, know where to land when jumping. But those stages share a problem with pick-a-door But after a while it is no real leap of faith if we truly have no clue where to land before Luckily this little problem can be solved So here toadette finds herself on top of a In front of her are tons of bumpers, but the afterwards toadette has to jump down into And this time it is a real unknown, because at random to the left and right, so toadette That's truly horrible and frustrating. Hooray! Okay so how do we do this? Well, the answer to this question is truly All that we need to pull this off is a global This is what a global asynchronous timer looks Once again everything takes place on icicles, This shell simply starts to travel as soon Everytime the shell hits the on/off block and so does the landing platform. The reason why the two state block changes of those two brave buzzy beetles and the bullet Everytime they bump into each other they change top hits the blaster it changes direction Technically such a timer isn't random, but to predict when it triggers, and therefore As a side node, such asynchronous timers are we use the same timer to have stacked boos belts move seemingly randomly up and down, mechanic of a really good stage. But that's not what we are here for today, Let's worsen an enemy spam level. So those stages usually always work the same, there is a star. If Mario grabs the star everything is fine star he is, well then he is as good as dead. By the way: Welcome back Mario! How was your holiday? "It was horrible! First they imprisoned me, then peach got kidnapped, I didn't draw - MY MOM - and finally I had Oh I'm sorry your holiday didn't work But we are all glad you are back, even though to reappear. Anyway, so here Mario finds himself in the there is a star in front of mario, but this .. oh he got it! Wow, looks like the holiday did mario good So now all that is left to do for our relaxed until the floor transforms into shiny, yet for the first time in weeks. Ouch! Turns out the way we make this level even star. If Mario touched the star previously - the his beloved flag pole, but if he didn't doesn't disappear and Mario is actually So how do we collapse the floor here? Well we make heavy use of ELC manipulation. As soon as there are more than 100 power ups ups. So here we first load 99 power ups onto global the bullet blaster shoots. If the star doesn't get eaten however, then off-screen. Here it doesn't unload which, means that can't fire a mushroom anymore, which in Super simple stuff! Finally let's worsen empty corridor swim So those stages are, well empty levels where until the timer almost expires. Those stages are horrible, but they only last Unless we find a way to lag the game, since this stage drastically, as long term viewers Sadly nintendo made sure that lagging the maker 2, so we can't do anything here. I hope you enjoyed this little video, if you and maybe you feel especially like ... no Nintendo really did their best to patch out didn't work out that great. Here's a simple way to produce tons of lag As soon as the game starts this thwomp starts stars to the right. To the right there is a small global loading on top of each other aaaand voila! Suddenly the game runs at about 8 frames a of it's normal speed. Swimming through an empty stage now no longer it takes about an hour, which, definitely Hooray! So here we have it, five ways to make some So before we wrap this up just one more thing. I'm moving over the next couple of weeks, without access to useful internet for quite So since I can't really dig deep into mario let's do one of those famous 422.000 subscriber For those not familiar, famous 422.000 subscriber You wonderful ladies and gentleman, ask me my best to answer it in the famous 422.000 That's it! So if anyone has any question they want me related, gaming, how to solve your math homework, Any questions, just leave me a comment below 422.000 subscriber q and a video that will Awesome, so with that being said, I hope you forget to leave me a thumbs up and maybe you the subscribe button as well. I hope that all of you have a wonderful day Goodbye.