As soon as a .50-caliber round hits water, typically it ricochets. So it's highly unlikely any kind of steel hull. My name is Adm. Jamie Foggo, and I served in the Navy When I retired, I took over as dean of the Center for Maritime here in Washington, DC. Today, we're going to be looking at warship scenes from movies and judging how realistic they are. King Kong covers his Hearing protection and is a big deal in the United States Navy. And if you're a gunner's mate or anybody that's been on a ship firing a small-caliber weapon to a 5-inch gun, it's loud. So no doubt the only was probably rupture his eardrums. Now, a US aircraft carrier displaces 90,000 tons. According to Google, King Now that's a heck of a lot of weight, half the weight of the But we make our aircraft carriers to be battle-ready and battle-hardened. So my money's on the carrier as far as King Kong and his 50,000 tons landing and not breaking It's not part of our to fight either one of A lot of weapons used. I see deck guns, I see anti-submarine rockets, more or less realistic. Now, when they launch from the starboard side we don't have those anymore, but some of our allies This is a weapon that's typically We have a more sophisticated It's an anti-submarine rocket. So typically a Mark 54 It's launched into the air. When it hits the water, it separates, and that torpedo behaves And the reason you do that not necessarily to go after Godzilla. Godzilla grabs one of the That's pretty hard to do tens of thousands of tons of displacement and a hull form that is Now, for an aircraft carrier that displaces 90,000 For realism, pretty fictional here. 1 out of 10. Cradle lowered. All right, now ram the projectile. Easy. When you ram that powder, you ram it easy. Real easy. This is one of the most accurate movies on how you load a 16-inch That projectile weighs 2,000 pounds. So you're essentially into the breech of that gun And you notice that the projectile, it's followed by these powder charges. This was a very accurate representation of how you load that gun. There are spark-proof tools, and everybody is very that powder is obviously and any mistake or any spark or any flame could set it off and blow up that turret. 204 degrees, Calloway. Sailor 1: 204 degrees. Sailor 2: 204 degrees. This very shiny brass And that's to allow the gun and see the direction that he's firing in. That's the way that we used to do it, before we had these very and gun directors that are All right, fire in the hole. I got a chuckle out of the runs toward the 16-inch gun We had on the battleships procedures to prevent sailors from being topside in proximity to those turrets because the overpressure of the blast blew him back, you know, And that's probably fairly accurate. Even today, with our missile systems, if you're launching from nobody's up there when you're launching, because there's going to as the weapon comes out of the tube, and you don't want anybody to get hurt. I'd give it a 7 out of 10. &quot;Battleship&quot; happens to be These are World War II-era ships. They're not part of the but these ships are made to fight. And when you're on one and you have a belt of armor around you 12 to 17 inches thick and 50,000 tons of steel to protect you, that's pretty reassuring. Drop forward anchor. What? The officer of the deck on the bridge uses the anchor on the battleship to avoid getting hit by Frankly, that's pretty hokey. The amount of chain on a connected to the anchor is pretty long. It's probably at least 1,000 feet. But we don't use anchors for that reason. We use anchors to moor the ship in port. And this is in the Pacific One thing that the is it's so powerful that the ship actually moves sideways several yards. When you fire a broadside, and you have to do a I'd probably give it a 2. I think Hollywood took on the anchor in this case. Torpedo! This clip is tough to watch. Probably the greatest is being stuck in a and being unable to get out. The ship is rolling over. Ordnance is exploding on board. And if you get out, that's great, but then you're going to jump into the freezing waters of the Atlantic. And you're still wearing which is, if you're not a good swimmer, it's pretty hard not to sink. One of the enemies are these watertight doors. The watertight doors are heavy, and they're created to contain the water that might be leaking into a compartment. Or, if there was some kind the reason that they're heavy is to contain that blast Now, most doors on ships or submarines have two kinds of latching mechanisms. There's something called a latch or a dog. We call it a dog. And when you're in a normal steaming, you just push the door shut, and it latches the same In the event that you're at a heightened readiness condition, you will crank that And the only way to get it open is to open it counterclockwise. So you can imagine, you're your hands are slippery because there might be there's water in the compartment, You know, it's a life-and-death situation. You're trying to get out. I think the realism factor Second torpedo to starboard beam! Bearing 120! Right hard rudder, hard over! &quot;Greyhound&quot; is an It tells and depicts with The Germans are depicted in the movie as deploying the wolfpack tactics, and you see two torpedoes coming You know, that's more and these tactics were Belay that, belay that! Meet her. Meet her! Belay, meet her, meet her! So, what you see on the bridge of the ship is an attack on the destroyer. You know, I think that was very realistic. And you see the wake of the The propellers do They create bubbles as they're and that creates a trail And so a sharp lookout and it gives the commanding to conduct those drastic If it was nighttime, a lot of times it's even because of the It kind of glows as it's coming at you. A lot of these torpedoes They had batteries and and they would go towards the target. Nowadays, we have torpedoes and have a very long range. And so it was a different game back then, but in this case, absolutely accurate. As far as the maneuverability is concerned of that destroyer, you this is not a battleship These are lighter ships. Nowadays a heavy destroyer about 7,800, 8,000 tons. The propulsion systems the engines and the are made for speed and maneuverability, particularly because in the they were not only going they were going after submarines. And that means you've got to The rounds that actually hit the water or penetrate the water, whether or not they actually As soon as a .50-caliber round hits water, typically it ricochets. If it does go beneath the waterline, you'll lose velocity very quickly. So it's highly unlikely any kind of steel hull. But again, you never know. So, he has to surface, And then while he's on the surface, they finish him off in But you see what looks that are lowered to the deck-plate level. As this projectile went in and it blew up, it may have caused secondary explosions. First there's an initial There's so much oil and fuel and weapons on board that submarine that, you know, once it took that initial and those shaped charges This movie gets absolutely As far as realism, 10 out of 10. Are we absolutely sure of our position? Yes, sir. An exact satellite fix. It's Her Majesty's Ship Devonshire that thinks she is operating The bad guys have somehow interfered with the navigation system of that ship, and she's actually Chinese territorial waters. Devonshire doesn't know that. Now, that's not unrealistic We just had a situation in the Black Sea where somebody spoofed the automatic information system of a couple of NATO off the coast of Sevastopol in the Crimea, where there's a Russian naval base. That's dangerous activity. This scenario is fairly realistic. English is the international in airspace or sea space. But many times somebody may not speak English, so we have other methods We have flashing lights, we have signal flags, and we have agreements to avoid mistakes. Sound the general alarm. [alarm blaring] by two Chinese planes. We believe they have hostile intent. The commanding officer So that is a call to action There's also a series of Typically on a surface ship at night, you are in a darkened-ship status, so there's very low light in compartments. There are key points that are lit, but not So there's a little bit of The unrealistic part of this scenario is this thing that looks like a drill. Penetrating the hull will not sink the warship. Now, in this case, the that by boring through and going in along the length to go through several compartments, and by that time, HMS Devonshire was overwhelmed and it sunk. So as far as realism, a 1 out of 10. Sir, I'm picking up mobile bandwidth low-latency transmissions. You know, &quot;The Last Ship&quot; is a show that I'm very familiar with. In the clip, they talk about a UAV. It stands for unmanned aerial vehicle. So it's a intelligence surveillance In the last decade, we've seen UAVs evolve that takes a video or a picture and sends it back to the mothership to UAVs with real weapons on board. Enable spy radar. But sir, if the Russians pick it up, they'll track our bearing. We've got 30 seconds, Sir? I gave an order. The spy radar, that is part or radar system on the ship. And the radar that is over the horizon, in the air, and on land for 100-plus miles is the SPY-1 radar. That's the best radar in the world, and it gives us essentially I had four of these when I served in Europe, and they were absolutely terrific. There's really two areas of the ship that are areas where One is the bridge. So that's where you drive the ship. That's where you control speed and rudder and course and direction. The real heart of the ship for fighting is in the combat information center. You see the sailors taking and carrying out that What I like about the series and what I like about the scene is it's the calm professionalism I give it high marks. I give it, for realism I give it a 9 out of 10. General quarters. Sound general quarters. All engines ahead full. Aye aye, sir. [whistling] You know, you hear whistle In this particular case, these They want to get people's attention. And in the Surface Navy today, when somebody wants to address the crew over the general announcing system, oftentimes the boatswain to get the attention of everybody. Stand by to roll depth charges. It speeds towards the submarine, it drops a series of depth charges. So those depth charges are in canisters, they look like 50-gallon drums, and they were actually rolled off the ship after a gunner's mate and set the depth that You had to estimate at how deep you thought after she went from the surface And it was a bit of a there are limits to how For historical accuracy, 10 out of 10. Thanks for watching. And if you enjoyed the video,