- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, NASA just announced the lunar landers for the Artemis program SpaceX's massive Starship is actually one of the alongside Blue Origin Whoa. (chuckles) And this is bringing some of which we'll &quot;Should NASA Just Cancel &quot;and/or Other Commercial where we're going to dive deep into why NASA isn't just and why they're only looking But today I think we need to settle a lot of debates here first about these two rockets, it's time we truly pit them head-to-head. Because this very well might as some serious irony that these two rockets even I mean, despite these two vehicles having very similar capabilities, you couldn't come up with with two drastically different I mean, one rocket has and built for years and years and the other is being by a patchwork team of space cowboys, some of whom previously So today, let's take a look at the history and progress of Starship and SLS, including the Orion capsule and everything else necessary their design considerations, Once we do that, I think how is it possible that two even exist at the same time. Should they exist at the same time? I mean one is easily the most ambitious rocket ever conceived and actually being worked on, and the other is living in the past, I mean, literally reusing old parts from retired space shuttles. How on Earth did we even wind up here, two of the most powerful rockets ever made going online at roughly the same time? Well, we've got a lot to - Three, two, one, liftoff - [Neil] That's one small step for man. - [Dispatcher] (speaking - Before we get too far into this video, just wanted to give a quick, fun shout-out to this awesome Lunar Mission At the end of this to find the Easter egg in this shirt. We'll talk more about Okay, have you ever spent shooting, editing and animating a video only to get it completely done and find out the day before that every single bit of your and you need to reassemble the scraps? Oh, yeah, no, no I have If you're one of my Patreon supporters, you're probably laughing right now at how different this video is from just what you saw earlier this week, which I'll keep up in there, So please forgive me if you can tell that I've because I have. (chuckles) but there's a lot of good Because you guys know me, once I got into the I maybe got a little too too carried away answering my own questions, diving in deep and correcting that frankly, I had wrong. But I've boiled this and we're going to cover all because this one is nuts and you guys debate this all the time, so we have a lot to settle. Now, because we've got so much to cover, and just like all my long videos, here's the timestamps if you But seriously, don't You'll be shocked at some of at least about the and of course, some of And I've got quick links to these topics and an article version of this Okay, right off the bat, we've NASA and SpaceX are not competitors. If you love SpaceX, you NASA is SpaceX's biggest customer and their biggest supporter, so let's keep that in mind. As if that wasn't obvious now that NASA is literally for the Artemis program and seeing NASA plastered all for the Commercial Crew Program, the relationship with NASA and SpaceX goes back to pretty much I mean, after all, if it weren't for NASA's of nearly $400 million for the then plus the multi-billion dollars for the CRS and commercial crew contracts, SpaceX most certainly wouldn't NASA does incredible things, that no private company would and they do a lot of that can often go unnoticed. In my last video that two years ago, back in a high altitude Russian flight I really drilled into why it's not fair to compare NASA the organization directly to SpaceX, the private company. As you probably know, in general, I'm team space and I like to encourage my audience to fight tribalism, and not just think one thing is the best and therefore everything else sucks. But when it comes to NASA then we can properly of those two systems. Because I already know there's that are, &quot;orange rocket and vice versa. So let's come together, and celebrate the fact that we have multiple mega Okay, now that the let's define the term super So you know why we're like Blue Origin's upcoming New Glenn or other heavy-lift The aerospace industry considers as a rocket that can carry Super heavy-lift launchers can of course put bigger but what that really means to potentially send or get probes on direct trajectories to our outer solar system without time-consuming gravity assists, potentially getting to outer almost three times faster. Historically, there's only been five super heavy-lift launchers to ever fly, and only four of those They're the Saturn V, the Soviet Union's unsuccessful N-I that could have lifted 95 tons, then there's also the Soviet Union's twice-flown Energia rocket SpaceX's Falcon Heavy technically if SpaceX chose to expend Although this has never it does make Falcon Heavy technically a super Although, when all three cores are reused, its payload capability And lastly, the Space Shuttle which, if you include the orbiter as part of its payload capability, it could technically put I should probably point out if you included, say, the which can get into orbit that would in that same way add another 80 tons to But the Shuttle was and you kind of in some ways as payload that went deployable payload capacity Although there was a proposed shuttle C to make it super heavy, tangent, let's keep going. So if humans are to or especially if we're to get to Mars, we absolutely need to have Of course, I think we're long overdue for these kinds of missions. I want humans on the moon again, in 4k! Actually, let's make is 8k. Let's just send MKBHD up there Now before we get started in case you've been living under a rock, we are currently working with NASA's Artemis program, and a substantial amount have been laid out. So during this video you'll hear Artemis Although we could lump in the upcoming Space Station into Artemis, we're on the SLS rocket, the Orion capsule, and the Human Lander System. Which to be clear, SLS is to Artemis as Saturn V was to the Apollo program. And right now, the for the first crewed lunar landing or two and, although a lot of things are drawn up and in progress for Gateway, we're just going to focus and the hardware that's (relaxed music) We're gonna set some records straight here before we pit these two because I think a lot of when it comes to how and Orion in the first place, and how they fit into the Artemis program. After the Space Shuttle Columbia tragedy, NASA started to rethink it's to a low Earth orbit and also started to set its and needed to build a big NASA's original vision was which would be a crew for the Shuttle with the Ares I and a new deep space rocket called Ares V. After slow progress and pointed out in the 2009 the Constellation program So the NASA Authorization Act of 2010 directed NASA to develop capable of lifting 70 to and evolvable to 130 tons or more. The vehicle must be able to since its development was so far along and NASA was required to work with existing partners when available. As we know, NASA, instead of an Ares 1 ended up hiring commercial and eventually crew to the ISS with the Commercial Crew Program, and NASA was tasked with a The thought was to roll quickly and efficiently, as their directive required by December 31st, 2016. (chuckles) (sighs) NASA performed a figures of merit analysis and narrowed it down to of a launch vehicle. Some of them were getting pretty exciting, with a 10-meter wide core diameter and oxygen-rich staged combustion engines. The analysis weighed the options of affordability being 55%, schedule 25%, performance 10% and programmatic 10%. NASA landed on what we and although SLS and SLS was actually a fairly but it definitely took cues from a rocket proposal called DIRECT in which SLS would lean heavily on the literal leftover parts and facilities from the Space Shuttle as a quick and easy way to prototype and test out the most Unlike the Commercial Crew NASA would continue to work with the contractors from the Shuttle using the familiar cost-plus which basically means, &quot;we're going to give you to get it done, &quot;but we'll also pick up the bill &quot;on anything that goes over budget.&quot; With funding hovering around 1.5 billion for SLS development per year since 2011 and the Orion Capsule receiving a little more than one billion a year, the contractors were assured to make it happen, but while staying within which matched the funding But the problem with cost-plus contracting is it offers very little or especially on schedule. In fact, timeline slips for the contractors, and the Boeing, set to receive the Although NASA does performance they've been scrutinized for more on that later. So in order to keep some employees, and members of congress happy, keeping the rocket's heritage ensured that funds would to Shuttle contractors, So although SLS does literally seem like a giant wingless space shuttle, it's actually had many changes to make the vehicle and lower costs than Here's a quick rundown on the changes. The SLS will have five-segment as opposed to the four-segment lacking any recovery hardware and featuring a redesigned plug that keeps squirrels and stuff out of it, with the redesign ensuring the nearby RS-25 nozzles on ignition. The core stage, which, although it looks like a Space there's virtually nothing in common with the external fuel tank other than its color and It uses a new aluminum, AL 2219, different construction and even a different spray foam. People definitely tend to think it's literally a stretched me included, but again, it mostly because SLS will going down through the top of the tank as opposed to hanging The RS-25s have been tweaked quite a bit since the Space Shuttle and have increased their power output from 104.5% to 109%, or But again, just like the SRBs, the RS-25D and later the RS-25E variants will of course not be recovered on SLS. Just a fun side note, are based on the original rated thrust of 1.6 meganewtons at sea level. After some tweaks in the they wound up being beyond their original design and are being pushed Another cost-saving and was to initially fly the SLS with quite literally the upper stage from ULA's Delta IV and Delta IV Heavy known as the Delta Cryogenic only it's been modified to fit on top of the have different hydrogen tanks, and more reaction control fuel. This configuration is known as the Interim Cryogenic SLS is intended to have a known as Exploration Upper Stage, which is considered to be and makes SLS much more capable. Next, we need to talk It sits on top of this whole vehicle for the Artemis missions. The Orion Capsule is a fairly and in some ways is a newer of the Apollo capsule. But although it looks quite similar, it's a lot bigger than it might appear. At five meters wide versus the Apollo and sporting an impressive compared to 6.2 cubic meters, and capable of up to six astronauts, although it'll probably only fly four for the Artemis missions, which could technically fit five. Well, barely. The Orion capsule used to be called the Crew Exploration Vehicle when it was in development But it has changed quite a bit and now features another which is a service module based on ESA's Automated Transfer Vehicle. But one thing we need to mention that's still new to this whole line-up, and it's still in progress, and is definitely required to land on the moon, and that is of course And that brings us to today. So far, everything we've is only capable of getting with SLS and Orion, because there really still isn't the capability to also carry up a lunar or even the upgraded Block 1B. But NASA has officially selected three very, very different lunar landers for the Artemis program, to draw up exactly how to the moon. You know some proposals still sending modules alongside Orion in the upgraded Block 1B SLS. But to get to the moon for Artemis 3, which will use a Block 1 SLS, the lander will need to fly on or two, or three, or another SLS, depending on how big because Artemis hardware is big. This portion of Artemis is a lot closer to the than it is to SLS and Orion. NASA has just a set of requirements, but is letting the and doing so in a way that's in the best attempt to get NASA will not own and like they do for SLS and Orion. So this does mean that we will need at least two rockets per for the Artemis program, likely even three, maybe even four. So we'll talk more about the options the Human Lander Systems proposals could use in the next video when we look at what if they just full blown canceled SLS in favor of Starship and So, let's talk about Starship. (relaxed music) If you're new to the scene you might not realize how far Basically, since SpaceX started, there's been talks of doing a And, unlike SLS, the actual had mostly been behind closed And really, going back propulsion engineer and had built a BFR rocket engine in his high-powered rocket And yes, the naming scheme Fun side note, Tom's BFR engine that was targeting And Tom was facing off who built a more traditional Tom's design won out and for the Merlin engine. But the BFR vehicle didn't really gain any public notice until around 2012 when Elon dubbed Mars Colonial Transporter that SpaceX would add to their lineup. But at this time, SpaceX was still a only having launched After that rumors were Falcon X Heavy, and Falcon XX rocket that would be their next mega rockets. It wouldn't be until 2016 at the International Aeronautical Congress in Guadalajara, Mexico that the world would really get a sense for what SpaceX was actually working on. And yes, that was that where everyone asked ridiculous questions. Well, not everyone. Hello, Elon, Tim Dodd here, the Everyday Astronaut You show it going into orbit and then refueling it three to five times, and then doing your Mars injection. - Right. or is it to have a fully-fueled and then put passengers on board? Or can you tell me a little - Yeah. - The plans Elon showed maybe even plaid, something the world had never A fully reusable, 12-meter with 42 full-flow staged combustion methane-powered rocket then six vacuum engines and three more sea level and advanced carbon and sporting a nutty It was known as the Interplanetary After 2016 we saw some with the biggest change actually when suddenly the rocket shrunk and the capability shrunk with it. Around this time, SpaceX and announced plans to Yusaku Maezawo, on a trip But maybe another big to shift away from carbon and instead utilize stainless steel. Then the name Starship And, not to be confusing, the entire system is called Starship, but so is the upper stage on its own. The booster is called Super Heavy. So we can loosely say Starship meaning Starship and Super Heavy, but we could also just be Kind of like how you can &quot;Hey look, that's corn.&quot; If it's off the cob and in a bowl, you'll still call it corn, you might say it's corn on the cob. (chuckles) God, you can tell In 2019, SpaceX held a press event in front of a full size in Boca Chica later known as Mark 1. By this point, the design and now the upper stage that act like giant air brakes. Now I already did a video why they likely went to and it's a fun video. But that pretty much gets since most of the development had been behind closed doors I think now would be a good time to go through the progress add up what exactly has been built, and see if we can get a better sense of their wildly different (relaxed music) So this is a segment I've Skeptics of Starship will point to all the and say, &quot;See, they while skeptics of SLS say, &quot;It's been a decade and So let's lay out all the This will be pretty comprehensive, but not a full, complete list but we'll at least list out starting with SLS and Orion. there's quite a lot more hardware that's been completed and So far we've seen over between Ares 1-X, different abort tests, mock-ups and drop test units. There's been a mostly of a legit Orion capsule in 2014 on top of a Delta IV Heavy for EFT-1. I was at that mission, and There's been a test of a that lasted over five hours at at Marshall Space Center in 2019. All of the hardware for of SLS and Orion for the Artemis 1 mission is pretty much ready for final assembly. The core stage is preparing to do a full the five segments of each the launch abort system is ready, the actual Orion capsule has and is back at Kennedy Space Center awaiting its upcoming The Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage has been ready to go for years, the Orion service module is ready, literally all of the hardware and finishing up testing In total there's 16 RS-25Ds, four of which are currently and 14 of those RS-25s previously There's enough Solid to make up 16 boosters. There's also four more RL-10 engines ready to be used for upper stages. And now that the manufacturing lines and practices are in place, parts for Artemis II are coming together, including the LOX tank, forward skirt, engine section, the pressure vessel for the heat shield, launch abort tower, and other bits of hardware, too. And of course, as mentioned, the RS-25s and booster But that's not all. Artemis 3 hardware is also including parts of Orion, parts of the service module, and again the engines This is what's been throughout the last decade-ish. So how's that compared Starship's progress is very different. The Raptor engine started and since then, here's a list of what we've seen built and tested. To date, there's been over many of which are in pieces now, and likely only a handful that are truly flight But that number is changing rapidly, as SpaceX has cranked out in just 2019 alone. And if we ignore the progress and the test articles for and/or 12-meter diameter Starship, again, almost everything was built within the last year. Starting with Starhopper, which is the only Starship well on purpose, at a 20-meter hop and a 150-meter hop. Then we saw the Mark 1 full-scale At the same time, SpaceX was in Cocoa, Florida as a way to work on different in a friendly competition. Mark 2, as it was known, and is still just hanging out there. Then we saw the two teams come to finish and test the Mark 1 prototype, which failed when testing, because they were already which would be called SN1, from the Mark to Serial There's been three subscale that have tested the welds and the ability to hold pressure around this time, too. They tested SN1, which kind of imploded Then we have SN3, which also failed due to improper testing procedures. And, as of the making of this video, SN4 is already complete and SN5 is well on its way. And if I keep trying to with all the new parts they're making, this video will never come out, because they're just So in other words, SpaceX three times more tanks than SLS has built in the last six years. And this is where we see the in the building, testing, Time to dig into this for a second. (upbeat music) By now you've already probably of the design differences and philosophies just by seeing how these two programs have developed over time. But there's a few things just how different they truly are. So let's start by putting NASA, being government funded, has to do things quite a lot differently than a private company but perhaps the biggest is take big risks. When building something as massive, complex and ambitious as SLS, you really need to account before you start sending to the contractors. If you start telling contractors and then something changes in the plan, all of that work is for naught. And this compounds when you and government supporting employees all relying on each other to Imagine if a key part gets delayed a year. What are the government supposed to do? You can't just lay them off for a year and then bring them back onto the project, they're gonna go find new work. You can't really reassign It's not like a propulsion engineer is now just going to move over to the other rocket NASA There's a lot of inherent costs per year that are sunk costs in running So, although it's inherently there's also a safety net for having multiple spread throughout the country, which massively helps make it So, although it is inefficient, the program survival and that And this is especially that it's written into law a probe to Jupiter's moon, Europa, is legally mandated to fly on SLS. And perhaps most nutty about that fact is that $250 million has because there won't be an SLS despite the probe being ready by 2023. But in the long run, this law did help keep a program moving during what could be very uncertain times with changing administrations. Now this obviously isn't ideal at all, but if you're worried and not just having your entire vision shift 180 degrees every doing things like this is for better or worse. But don't forget, NASA's budget is only about half a percent and the human space flight programs aren't even half of that. So in general, the primary is to plan ahead and take little risks, because there really when you have to answer to the taxpayers why their money literally Now compare this to Starship. Starship development is literally about as blank slate as it gets. SpaceX started not with but quite literally started by just learning what questions to ask and how to frame the constraints of what their vehicle should do. SpaceX seems to have wound Be fully and rapidly reusable, large enough to be useful in getting humans onto That's really about it, and The next most pinned down item that helps to answer that question is developing an engine that is efficient and massively reusable. Like I talked about in my video about SpaceX's Raptor engine, a methane powered full-flow fits the needs of these goals perfectly. From there on, the whole thing is pretty much just a giant playground. Hence, when we saw the sudden pivot from carbon fiber to stainless steel, you get a sense of just for SpaceX to just start flying so they have a starting when you hear Elon explain to make the switch. - Taking the general approach of, if a design is taking too and therefore the design must be modified to accelerate progress. - Right. - One of the most fundamental errors made in advanced development is to stick to a design even and to not strive to It's incredibly important. So this is why the switch to steel was because the advanced carbon - This is why we're seeing happening down there at Boca Chica, Texas with the development of Starship. It's why it's kind of silly to even bother asking which of course I'm as guilty Because everything depends on what's going to happen and the step in development after that will be based on the and et cetera, et cetera. It's a similar philosophy to something known as the agile model which is standard in software because of Elon's original Basically, you don't work on step two until step one is done. Planning ahead any further and you're very likely going Now this is quite literally where everything needs because, if you end up building the rocket three meters shorter than the your entire ground support and by the way, pretty has basically happened with SLS But everything for Starship is still on the table at the moment. I mean, we're literally seeing them build a factory around a rocket instead of vice versa. And frankly, this is pretty risky. But it's also much easier to do, because SpaceX is so meaning changes in decisions don't have nearly as as the other, more traditional methods. But just know, we will We will see some setbacks, we But, unlike SLS, not it's halfway expected as a with lower cost and greater speed. Elon has said over and over &quot;Failure is an option here, &quot;you are not innovating enough.&quot; This is very similar to the Soviet Union's design philosophy. Basically, build something test it out, if it blows up, see what went wrong, make And it definitely gave them during early development. So say you blow up a rocket oh well, learn from it. SpaceX will build another than it'll take NASA to fuel And that's just simply a huge, huge difference in philosophies. (relaxed music) Okay, I think it's time we really stack these to help figure out just when we look at their nuts and bolts. We've already touched on so here they are again on screen. For now, we'll compare some so the Block 1 and Block 1B of SLS and the rough-ish version of Starship as it currently stands. But definitely keep in mind that Starship will pretty much every time one gets built for at least the first dozen or two. But SLS could also change a bit But while we're at it, let's throw up the Saturn just so we have some extra perspective on how these vehicles really compare. As they stand today, but Starship will be huge. Now let's talk engines and their fuels. Falcon Heavy has 27 sea and a single vacuum-optimized on its upper stage, which all run on RP-1. Then there's the Saturn V, on its first stage that ran on RP-1, five J2 engines on the second stage, and a J2 on the third As we know, SLS has two SRBs, four RS-25s running on has only a single RL-10B2 and the Block 1B will have four RL-10s that all run on hydrogen. Lastly, Starship has 37 engines on the Super Heavy booster and six-ish Raptor on Starship. This number is very subject to change, and is relatively easy for SpaceX to do so because of the small size Next let's look at their As always, this is pretty fun. The Falcon Heavy is the baby followed by the mighty Saturn V at 35.1, then the SLS at 39.1, and lastly, Starship will be the king here at 72 meganewtons as it currently stands. Now we've already gone over some of these rockets' low so let's add SLS and Now notice, we are going to be showing performance for SLS Block but their low Earth orbit capabilities are virtually the same that pretty much drops But now let's show how much mass they can shoot off to the moon, otherwise known as a since we're talking about Quick note, this isn't necessarily how much a vehicle can just how much it could You still need to get into lunar In the case of Orion or Apollo, that's done with the Service module. And this is technically a which is a measurement of to get to a certain point in space. Falcon Heavy, when reused, can sling about nine tons to the moon if all three cores land or about 15 tons when expended. Then we have the Saturn V that could send 48.6 tons to the moon. Then, SLS Block 1 can take 27.5 tons, and the 1B can do up to 43 tons. Now, you might ask, &quot;How &quot;get less to the moon than the Saturn V?&quot; Well, that interim is seriously undersized But oddly, even with the Block 1B and the four RL-10 powered the SLS can still only so that's shy of what the Which, quite frankly, And Starship is a little more confusing when it comes to TLI. Starship on its own cannot Because of its massive 120-ton dry mass, lugging all of that dead doesn't work out without Now of course, in-orbit refueling is 100% part of the plan for Starship. But we'll talk more about that more in an upcoming video where I'm gonna talk about versus Starship refueling. So now here's where we're deep rabbit hole, so We're gonna talk price, and this is not an easy thing And all numbers you'll see are Let's start off with the sticker price. This is the price you could For now we're kind of and just what the invoice would be for a launch of said rocket. But we're going to get in a second, but for now, And we're also only going not the spacecraft like Apollo or Orion. Starting with Falcon Heavy at and probably around 150 The Saturn V was around 1.2 billion, SLS Block 1 and the later Block 1B will be 875 million once And Starship, well, uh, for two million. But let's assume they can do two million, but for a while they'd be until the market catches up. So let's just throw 100 million out there as more of a worst case Now with these numbers, we can do a very baseline And since we're talking let's only look at how much it costs to send one kilogram to the for each of these vehicles. Falcon Heavy can get for around $10,000 whether Then the Saturn V was about $25,600, SLS Block 1 best case scenario is around $31,500, but Block at $20,000 per kilogram. And lastly, Starship. Now remember, a single $100 can't get anything on so it's going to take two at an extra $100 million each in order to send 156 tons of payload on a trans-lunar injection, which would wind up costing In case you couldn't tell, we're kind of sandbagging Starship just in case it's way, way too optimistic. And even so, it's still by far the most economical thing on the chart. But these preliminary costs are They don't really factor and we've still got a lot to cover on the topic of budgets and cost. So for now, just file this away, because in the next video we'll really chase all the rabbit holes when it comes to costs. (upbeat music) So how did we get here? How is it that we have two completely different going online at the same time? I think the history kind When NASA started working on SLS, the thought of a rocket like Starship would've been utterly ludicrous. I mean, even today, many and likely to fail. But Starship is impossible until it's not. And then, all of a sudden, And don't forget, NASA has for nearly a decade. If SpaceX had approached it would've been like trying a GPS-guided, nine-liter four-track 8RX 410 John Deere tractor with an infinitely variable transmission and 85-cc displacement with 227 liters per air conditioned and heated, 10-inch touchscreen displays when they were looking to They just simply wouldn't Oh man, I showed my Iowa again, sorry. And NASA has had the rug so many times, so many only to change direction before the program even has So NASA did what they had conservative route, leaning partners, and program funding schemes to lay out a rocket that have a hard time being canceled so they could at least have for the first time in nearly 50 years. Because I think that's the It's not Starship. Humanity has Starship coming. Starship is destined, because to make a fully reusable rocket. Everyone wants that, no one thinks that's a bad idea, and no one thinks it's never, But I think the biggest surprise is that it would be almost 50 years before there was a rocket capable of taking humans to If you told that fact to the last person to walk upon his return home in 1972 that no one will have he probably woulda pulled a Buzz Aldrin and punched you right in the face. It wasn't until the market shifted that rocket technology became but by a small handful of that could rethink everything and opportunities that just I know Elon's life goal is to get to Mars, but in the meantime, he'll humanity's access to space for the better. And yes, even when you factor because, trust me, I've very long video on that, too, which is a fascinating topic, you should definitely have a watch. In order to get to Mars, massively capable rocket, that insane proposition just so happens to completely shift the by orders of magnitude. I mean, the reason we in the first place was and the United States had against the Soviet Union, and that just simply to explore the moon. So, speaking of sustainable that's what we'll really that by happenstance so standby and we'll answer, and use Starship and other So at the end of the day, in my opinion, orange rocket good enough for now, shiny rocket incredible And we as team space that we even live at a time where we'll get to have go online at roughly the same time. Yes. So what do you think, did Did any of your perspectives change? I know mine did. Honestly, when I started making this video and working on the script, I thought it was a foregone conclusion. I thought that I knew it was actually pretty humbling to really go through and just kinda do a So let me know if you learned anything, or something shifted in your mind. And I'm sure the comments of SLS versus Starship, which is kinda what this video's about. And I'm probably guessing to reduce the number of Twitter arguments. Sorry, Joe Barnard. I have a quick list of for helping with this video. First off, Boca Chica for providing some of of Starship development. I'm sure you're already following them, but in case you haven't, and follow their work. Then I need to thank Kimi and Martian Days, who some of the beautiful renders you've seen. So definitely shoot them a follow. But also a thanks to Declan for helping me come up and crunching some stuff. He started working on a yeet calculator, which is just awesome. Thanks to some of the trying to figure out which So definitely check out flightclub.io and check out his Patreon page if you wanna help him do Speaking of Patreon, I definitely owe a huge thank who've already heard this video so many times before it comes out. They fact check and do a lot and it's just awesome. We have such an incredible community, so thank you guys for all your help. If you wanna help add do some fact checking or just hang out with definitely consider becoming where you'll gain access our exclusive Discord channel, and exclusive monthly live streams. That's patreon.com/everydayastronaut. Thank you. And while you're online, be because we have really cool merchandise like Lunar Mission you didn't even get to see the back yet. Check this out. Now there's actually a to this T-shirt. So notice it says Lunar but there's actually So if you can figure it out, if you can figure out what else is there besides Lunar Mission, not the remove shoes but the additional words to Lunar Mission. If you can figure out what go ahead and type that in at and you'll get 10% off We have really cool merchandise, they're all hand-printed hand sewn on patches. We're constantly making new stuff. Get ready, there's going to be a lot of really cool new things. So check back often, because some of this stuff is so cool that even Elon Musk wears it, seriously. That's everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks, everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (upbeat music)