Large things are incredible. Sure they can be have a way of drawing humans in. Recently I've in Minecraft which is the fear of large things all with Minecraft's massive world there are bound community builds, projects, and even just massive with this introduction of the concept also came a Sure, there are videos about huge things all that everything else looks small in comparison? had to ask my friends a very important question. pickle! Sea pickle? That's that's a smallest thing button is smaller. So, I mean pixels are kind pixel of a block maybe? What if I told you there's I'll give you- I'll give you a- I'll give you a block, pixels on a block... Pixels on a small yeah the block's smaller wait what? But can we There's four- four of these many these pixels a shadow same thing. Like the shadow of an item... know why but I think yeah. So the pixel on item's but for comparison purposes I'm going to use calculations slightly better. So how much is one in game and a tiny bit of math I found an item I would have expected. We know that one block is means that those block pixels are 6.25 centimeters &quot;There's four four of these pixels inside of one 1.5625 centimeters or 3/ths of an inch. Fun fact meter which if you don't know you can only hold 64 our shadow pixel from earlier being 1/14th centimeters across, the smallest thing in the game megalophobia like none other we have to turn into our larger scale, after all a player is stay which when measured by our item pixel is 120 item whole number, almost feels planned. But the but compared to a tree specifically a normal oak different oak trees in the game and from my of the data set--was seven blocks tall and five larger than our player and 448 item pixels tall item pixel size keeps making whole numbers like with the Pillager Outpost main building. The 21 meters tall, being exactly three times taller largest thing on our list... But none of this is I've mentioned is only 21 blocks tall, what gives? hundreds of times, unfortunately trying to get jump from a Pillager Outpost to the entire world. you to give some sense of megalophobia, so going Minecraft world, which keep in mind is larger instilling megalophobia. So how big is a Pillager Minecraft world is 60 million blocks by 60 million find out how much of a percentage it covers we volume divided by larger object's volume, times Which when we plug in the width height and length world we get... Yeah we aren't even close so let's structure that averages a width and length of 244 and the obsidian pillars height reaching 103 on top of itself 6,592 times to reach the top and way across. That is really huge, in fact it is back in 2011 that was 256 meters by 256 meters, we still have a ways to go. So it's time we get to in Minecraft is 32 chunks which with each chunk you have a super chunk of 512x512 with a is getting closer to the size we want, filling isn't large enough so let's move on to a build City constructed in 2013 By many of Minecraft's tallest around 200 blocks tall. This means that way across the map itself which is a crazy number. huge when we go to the world comparison it's still when compared to reaching 1.8k subscribers! If then when stretched out we would be above 118,800 subscribed that number would be 27,200,000 item then please subscribe to make the channel even being so much larger than all the other things Edition there was a way to choose how large you a giant 5,120x5,120 meter area to walk around in. that this giant world had a volume much larger 327,680 item pixels to go all the way across the current Minecraft world size, the percentage blow things out of proportion real quick, after even broken a million blocks, so let's do that same distance as the Overworld, also has a strange meters from (0,0) won't bring you any further into a 1:1 ratio then this means the Nether's size for million blocks across or 7500 km which means that which is actually pretty large and we are getting let's take a tourist destination at one of the that being The Farlands. This border of sorts is 2,000 times larger than our last thing. The entire meters across each way, and with the height of item pixel from the beginning we would need 1.6 large enough to make a huge dent in the percentage and now we have reached it. The Minecraft world. km or just under 4 billion item pixels. This is See I've been holding back a little bit. Sure the actually three dimensions in each world, the how they're all the same size, that means adding larger than a Minecraft world. Stacking each sandwich of sorts, and this is only the beginning. instead of on top of each other making a world 60 11.5 billion item pixels to go all the way across. this the largest thing in Minecraft? I mean so what gives? Well I'm glad you asked. See a may only be 60 million by 180 million across, quintillion seeds, so that means that we have to huge hyper World, which is 76 undecillion meters it basically loses meaning, so we need to switch thing in the universe and a lightyear is used so with that the total volume when calculated which is absolutely insane. A YouTube channel video about the scale of Minecraft and reached the the possible worlds would be 27 lightyears across largest thing in Minecraft, right? Well, not so want to bring up specifically updates. See each specific way, each in its own right, which means the amount of updates that have been in the game. Fool's updates or non-major updates besides the us with version updates from 1.8 when the world was added. And that gives us 14 unique updates 100 billion lightyears in volume to 1.4 trillion, from 27 light years to 176 light years across. that is 0.1% the size of the entire Milky Way light years across. Now that is huge, don't get me this video I thought I would find something so in comparison. 176 light years is nowhere close to Well it seemed that way when I first brainstormed stumble upon something that would break the entire video that involved the void and what's inside it, I discovered a video by the channel named Spds, the void, revealing that the lowest point was the the game crashed on him refusing to work. But try teleporting into the sky. He realized that he was 10^248 meters up in the sky. It was confusing found in the void didn't apply to the top, which is worth of distance in an instant. Now when I saw limit didn't really mean anything since blocks for a little bit, until I saw another video about interesting to watch, but the real thing that data pack to change the build height limit. but it didn't strike me until then. That was my the way to that massive height from the void height limit to the lowest build height limit were million by 180 million by 384 to 60 million by 180 that was incomprehensibly large, but just how on its side making the height 60 million meters 180 million staying the same, then that one world our all versions hyper world by a huge margin. But rough amount of math I found that if turned into a worlds would be 1.4 * 10^129 light years across in that I had to look up the name of it that being a the different seeds the different updates, it's the observable universe is 93 billion light years universe by so much that the numbers names lose hard to quantify, and that is even taking into horribly wrong. It's crazy that with the numbers large I could get the math so much smaller than larger than the observable universe. That being math in the comment section feel free to, after mistakes. Anyways, with all our calculations is the largest thing in Minecraft?&quot; Well the of quadrillions of quintillions of universes wide experience in a trillion lifetimes seem small in thank you for watching, consider subscribing, [Music]