[Music] This video is everything you need to know and how to drive all the way to optimized time codes in the description, but I recommend learn something new. I usually upload online races just isn't enough time to go into full detail. I do to help me win races, and by the end, you'll If you just started playing Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, maximizing the speed stat. Let's clear up which but we will keep it simple for beginners. The best or Mr. Scooty, roller tires, and cloud glider or by collecting coins. If you haven't unlocked them and parachutes or any combo that you like the look or minus button to see your stats. What we're and mini-turbo. Acceleration is how quickly which is very important after getting hit by an turn better, which is crucial until you have noticed your speed stat is really low, but the and win. And surprisingly, the mini-turbo stat to go fast. I'll explain this more soon and even goes deep. But I will fully explain what all these all you have to know is that this is a very solid Or you can try out the most popular combo in the Yoshi, Teddy Buggy, roller, and paper glider. This going to be tougher to control for beginners. a high-speed combo. This is because not only is it improving at this game. The higher speed combos the most important mechanics to master in this but I would not recommend it. And lastly, look this other icon, but if you see this one, you have have inward drift and they operate differently have already made a video covering the differences guide, we will be covering outward drift because that I say from now on will be true for both While you have the stat screen open, you'll want and auto-accelerate off. Smart Steering is avoid going off the track. This sounds great, It's sometimes very unpredictable, and it slows noobs and sometimes Mario Kart pros. But our so of course, we will not need smart steering. left and right to turn, but it's far easier and Auto-accelerate just holds down the A button for can't ever stop or slow down if you have to. So detail later on in the guide, because they are first track in this game, Mario Kart Stadium, is start off with how to play very simple with the B button to slow down or reverse. At the start what's called a startup boost by holding A at the moment the number two has stopped moving. If done startup boost. If you start holding A too late, not too bad. But if you start holding A too early, you think you're gonna burn out, let go of A for that. Then you'll probably get a decent startup Use the left stick to move left and right. And you want to stay on the main road, as going into the But if you have a mushroom as your item, you can the grass, in order to take shortcuts. Press you don't have an item, you will do a cute little use this effectively, you should find a way to still being able to press X with your right thumb. this game. You can get a sharp turn by holding the button. This begins a drift. If you drift for long releasing the R button, you will get a small speed longer, you will go from blue sparks to orange to a longer-lasting mini-turbo. I refer to these super mini-turbo, and ultra mini-turbo. Drifting mechanics in this game. So make sure you are how this controls. The R button is also used to do press the R button near the peak of the ramp to land. You should be trying to trick off of pretty ground. Because most of the time, you will be to trick, you can also shake your controller. Even help you get tricks on regions of a track where trick off of blue glider panels. Once you are driving on the ground. You can still move left You have to hold down to go up and hold up to go like you're leaning back or leaning forward. For using A to accelerate, R to drift and trick, and to brake and X to look backwards. But they are of course, we will cover later in this guide. You You can now go to Grand Prix to race against the game, go for 150cc. This is the standard game even slower. Mirror mode flips all the tracks left is so ridiculously fast that you'll constantly but not when you're first starting. [Music] how to take turns tightly. The path you take and having a good line versus a bad line makes a you'll want to sacrifice a good line in order to decision-making is what makes Mario Kart's the first things you'll notice is coins on the random vehicle part, but in a race, they also which can go up to 10, and you lose 3 coins if 6% speed increase, or about 0.6% per coin. a big difference. Over a two-minute race, that's one second faster for each coin you have. But because you also lose time going out of your way close to the optimal path until you have 10. A is faster than the normal path. Most of the time, to take the shortcut, because you have to go like grass. But some shortcuts can be done without or a NISC, which stands for no item shortcut. you just mushroom over the off-road. But some be done differently if you only have one mushroom. of the shortcut or activating the mushroom after because just a mushroom boost is not long enough. shortcut, since they usually involve at least a speed during your drift for a free mini-turbo at which are usually more difficult than the mushroom very precise movement, either to spend as little or to leave the off-road in a mini-turbo boost to entirely. These boosts will not save as much time, without a mushroom to extend your lead. We'll But one thing you'll definitely want to know right sure to spam R to keep hopping. This makes you go possible with your tires touching the off-road. If particular track, I'm currently working on a short always taking requests for more. Just search for, YouTube search bar, and I may have a video on it. anything you take away from this guide, please let the biggest difference between you being good or There are a lot of tracks, but each track is this game regularly for a few months, I guarantee have not memorized the tracks, your main focus you can. This way, you know exactly when to start shortcuts confidently to make a comeback, and you since you're no longer trying to figure out where but every time a new DLC course pass comes out completely average player. That is until I start Knowing the tracks well is crucial. This is why I the players there are much better than the bots, consistent in winning in Grand Prix mode, then Now let's talk about items. Item boxes are laid and most tracks will have three item sets per so you should try to grab the double item box as once. You cannot swap your items, you have to touching an item box, it takes a while before shortly after getting the box, and your item shows moment you touch the item box. So don't worry a worse item just because you're closer your item has been set. The further back you are, based on how far you are from first place, and it is possible for second place to get triple as long as first place has a big enough lead. But consistently get the best items. Here's how every generally want to use each item. Even if you watching this section, as you'll probably Some items can be thrown forwards or attack items down on the stick, you will throw it backwards. L. This is very important to defend against red peel can be placed on the track, and it stays aggressively, you can either throw it forward with trap a commonly taken path. But typically, you'll red shells. Keep in mind that when throwing you're going. If you're going slowly, you will not a straight line, and it can bounce off of walls. make sure you don't hit yourself with it, because go for six snipes, but typically, you'll want to The red shell is so annoying. When you throw you'll defend against red shells by trailing around something as it is about to hit you. You it just moves in a straight line and breaks as red shell to protect against other red shells. it is hit or after a few seconds of being out. so pay attention to that when going around the because you could run into it yourself. So you'll to do this is on a narrow path, as nobody will be no one will be able to dodge it. Thanks, the distance depends on how fast you're going. and you may bomb yourself. You can trail the bomb 150cc, you need to be going at top speed or you is to use your rearview camera and drop the bomb trail the bomb. The Super Horn, also known as hitting all racers and deleting all items on the items held by other racers, but does include trail Super Horn is to break a blue shell. There is a so a common strategy is to keep cycling for new then if a red shell shows up, you can't use not only targets first place and delivers a hits anyone in its way. And this thing is huge. track. Did you know that? And sometimes it takes a made sense. Your general strategy for avoiding a of the middle of the road. If you notice the blue to avoid the blue shell in first, you can actually The blue shell does not lock onto a target until blue shell early. If you notice too late, you if someone else has finished the race already, the even if that placement is 11th place. I'm still attack item. You can use it three times, and it can hit multiple people and even break their trail to look backwards and time the throw. Each time and then returns in the next available slot. If you will lose the boomerang unless you can get this is extremely rare. But since the shock only get your boomerang back after being hit by the and it has a time limit that begins when you throws are both represented by the circle, but as the Fire Flower 10 times. The Fireballs can also is. The Piranha Plant gives you periodic bursts of or hold the item button to keep activating it. in the space in front of it, which can include Piranha Plant, just remember to stay behind them, don't want to hit them and end up in front of that stupid. The best item in the game is the Shock. The Shock hits every racer except the user, you drive much slower and you can get squished Each racer stays small for a different amount of stays small for the longest. If you get shocked in animation and turn small, but you will not lose a ground. There are two ways to dodge the Shock: in the respawn animation after falling off. But you, there's no way you can use falling off as in the invincibility phase after getting hit, but you will still turn small. As the person using into this. But the basic idea is you want to look If someone is in a Boo, you cannot see them on to use the Shock at a time when fewer people are The speed items all rely on your speed stat. I more important stat than speed when trying to go items. With speed items, the speed that they give coins you have. And this includes the Bullet Bill. the speed boost you get is actually quite weak and The best use of a mushroom is to take shortcuts, unless you're using a speed item. Some shortcuts don't need a mushroom at all. This is where track either be next to useless or take you from last You also want to save your mushroom if you have This is because if you get hit, you can use your Golden Mushroom is just a mushroom that you can the first use. This can be used to take multiple the Star is the third best item in the game. and handling. It makes you invincible and you slower Golden Mushroom but better in every other using a Star makes it disappear from your When using a Star, make sure to listen to the The Bullet Bill is the second best item in the and you go faster than mushroom speed, and it Bullet Bill left and right, as you do have some hit other racers, and pick up coins. If you are Bullet Bill, it will often take the shortcut single shortcut. The Bullet stops after a while, If you're in first place, the Bullet will not last many racers. This depends on how many racers there to pass five people. If the Bullet has not stopped 8 seconds. 8 seconds is the amount of time you there are sections of some tracks, particularly where the Bullet is programmed not to drop zone. The two most famous examples are using the the waterfall shortcut on Yoshi Circuit. If the then it only follows one rule: stop after 12 if you're in first place, the Bullet does not care about Bullet extension zones, I'll link a video just look around for some resources. The Coin it sucks. Using it increases your coin counter coins on the track. The game will never give you coin item and you cannot guarantee a double item until you get your next item. Then, the next item coin. The Boo or Ghost makes you invincible and a random racer in front of you from their active you will get a mushroom. The Boo is quite good because the person using the shock cannot see that first place will be stolen from most often from first place. In order to defend against the a coin. That way, the Boo steals the coin instead. and we'll dive way deeper later on. The Crazy Banana, Green Shell, Red Shell, Bob-omb, Mushroom, you will use whichever item is in front of you. important item here is the Star. And if someone so it's way safer to just spam all the items if the racers in front of you and puts ink on their but also lowers your traction stat, making terrain. If you have ink on you, you can use any from air to water to get rid of it. The Blooper is And finally, we have triple items: Triple Banana, they are in your active item slot, and they will other items and make it easy to hit other racers. these, so if you don't have all three, it's harder does not guarantee you are safe, so just keep that and give other racers a small speed boost when your mushroom; you're just giving them a small Before we get into the strategy section, I want because this affects the strategy you'll want to to pick Worldwide. The game will try to put you might think you want to pick Regional to reduce is a smaller group of people to play with, you may level. So, I would recommend Worldwide. Even don't expect to win your first few online races, big. Remember, everyone you're racing against can you'll start to practice not being in first place and exhilarating as you have this learning the same online, with a few exceptions. The item against the computer players. For example, place. If you don't move for too long, about Even if you're moving, the game will disconnect game checks for this, but I did manage to find a in making sure I don't get disconnected. I used embarrassing the entire room. Okay, most players online, but obviously, the game will not pause. options, which is an important technique that the most important difference between online and an item at somebody and it hits, but then they What happened is they didn't get hit on their own knowing if your attack actually landed. This But generally speaking, the game can be pretty so you should still try to snipe people as if before you celebrate. Now here's something that items like trail items work differently for by absolutely nothing, what happened is someone on their screen. There is no way you can control of the lag. And this is made worse if one of you across the world from each other. When someone in to respect it and stay far away. But if someone is and guarantee a hit on them. Oh, and this applies into my Triple Green Shells while I am kicking my everything you need to understand what's happening make better decisions. Yes, there's luck involved, examples of that luck coming into play, but most lot of people think, Mario Kart is not a random your opponents, you can often win consistently There are three general placements you can be in and the back. Which place you are in plays a big in first place, this is called frontrunning, and are important, and you want to get to 10 coins that you lose first place because of it. Plus, than enough to hit 10 coins because each coin item extremely long winning streak on Waluigi Stadium but I was seriously bad at collecting coins on lap, but I'd still hit 10 because of all the coin than everybody else. If all you have is a coin, unless you can guarantee a double item box. This get two coin items at once, so your next item will You want to always have a defense item for a red probably get two defenses at some point, which which is also great. If you get the Super Horn, you can so that the Boo cannot steal it. In first to this is if you think someone nearby has a good first so they cannot hit you. In this scenario, keep your defense item, if you fail to hit them. speaking, you shouldn't use a Super Horn as it is is a bad idea because you can get hit by the blue build a very large lead called a breakaway. This everyone else, this is because the person in first far away to get hit by all the most deadly attack in mind that you can't always win even if you are get mushrooms to take shortcuts, and you cannot it can feel especially bad when you hold first But often, people are just strategizing to can never feel too safe being in first place, If you are at the front of the pack but not in defensively, especially if there are strong attack try to use your rearview camera a lot because not looking. Stay away from trail items, even line. The half-second you save by taking a faster if you get hit. And chain your attack items as use your items right before an item set. This is example, if you use a red shell right away, you need it for defense. But if you didn't need it all throw it and get a new defense item. If you get a use it strategically. Some tracks have a big and waiting to use your mushroom is often the mushroom spot. In this case, you want to keep it mushroom by the next item set, just chain it triple green shells in a top position on Waluigi triple green shells for as long as I can. It also If you're in the middle of the pack, you're of the attack items are most common here, and you have revolving shells, a star, or a boo, I'd alive. If you have 10 coins, you'll be going fast you don't like your chances, don't risk getting down and hang back where it's safer. Get to 10 by taking shortcuts. This strategy is called racing poorly for a period of time. If the track then it is called a bagging track. We'll talk more staying at the back can actually improve your too dangerous and unpredictable. If you are in the your first goal is to get to 10 coins. this is because the extra speed will help you make speed items to make up for your bad lines. In mushrooms and stars, even if it means using them to get as many items as possible, increasing the as hopefully dodging the shock if you don't get opportunity to try and make a comeback. Winning track you are playing and your knowledge of the and item box placements. On most tracks, you do able to come back. But then there are some maximum size Bullet Bill extension zone and six of the track that you can take after doing the intentionally stay half a lap behind on lap one, my chance of winning is actually better than Mario Circuit 3, Yoshi Circuit, and Riverside backing tracks in the game where you'd want to sounds extremely degenerate, I don't blame you. gonna do? Stop playing Mario Kart? Yeah, you can to intentionally lose by front-running on Cheese I recommend trying it out a few times. It's to get first place doing this against human strategy and a higher skill ceiling to this game. not that powerful, but at least it requires more Let's be real, front-running is pretty easy for is broken. Most tracks are still front-running versus front-running, and while you should I'm probably better at front-running. It is just for front-running than bagging. This game can also it too much if you luck lose a few races. You but you can control your average placement. Just and if your VR is going up, then you're doing and try again when the Japanese players are it's time to try 200cc. This mode is so much But before you get started, here's what you need mechanic in 200 is brake drifting. This is where allowing you to take tighter turns. In order to do where your right thumb is on the A button, but you at the same time. Once you're in a drift, just down too much, the game will not let you drift tap B repeatedly while still holding A. This takes will feel very natural. There are some turns where the turn is, but since brake drifting does make whenever possible. The best way to take turns than you usually would and this makes the turns a boost ramp to make the next turn better. If you this makes tricking off some ramps slower. There long drift over two turns where you would normally but this lets you charge a bigger mini-turbo be going too fast. Brake drifting helps, but you a mini-turbo. In a situation like this, you can but release A and press A again. This will get rid I recommend taking the first two turns on Rainbow is that on 200cc, items often matter less. Since that gives less time for impactful items like the no blue shell, front-running is better, and if and bagging is worse. Also, the items are not attack items are actually worse, since they're Plus, there is a bigger skill gap between a good to be much more precise to drive well. So being much more common, and making a comeback on 200cc besides the difficulty, is some of the crazy increased speed. A lot of 150cc mushroom and 200cc also introduces some shortcuts that are 200cc shortcut everyone should learn, I recommend how can you not smile when you see this? That's is the Advanced to Pro guide. In the next guide, super bouncing, mini-turbo tricks, soft drifting, a lot more about shortcut techniques, especially specific and situational high-level tricks that player that can win even against some of the best the comments for any questions that you guys have, be linked in the description after I make it or