I'm free today. I'm going to make a five-finger peach duck soup to drink. You see, this duck is white and fat. This stew is so delicious . Let's chop the duck. It 's so big that you can make a pot of soup. There are still these left that can be cooked two or three times. I forgot about the fire. Let's put the pot down now and put it down. Add our duck to it, put the five-finger peach in it, cover the pot, and say, &quot;This shrimp is so beautiful. Look, this fish is so big. This fish is so big. Do you think it's big? Come on, come on, come on. Cut it thinner, auntie . &quot; Buy some celery, buy some celery, my sister is scared of Gaojie , Gaoju, ah, 5 cents for celery, 5 cents for so much, 5 cents, let's go , let 's go The service in the south is great. You can also buy celery for 5 cents . I'm making salt and pepper shrimp. Now I'm frying the shrimp. Do you want to eat the shrimp? Add the salt and pepper powder. Will you change my mind and my head will turn gray like this? How about this stir-fried beef with celery? The fried squid is pretty good, right? A dish of boiled squid is ready. Haha, it looks like that food blogger husband is here. Give me your hand that is still clenched after many years and Jiujiu . Give me your mature hand . Give me your accommodation. Will it be like this ? Have you learned the five-finger peach and duck soup? Give me your smiling mouth and today you brought 500 yuan to the seafood wholesale. See how much seafood you can get with these 500 yuan at the seafood wholesale market. Go to the seafood wholesale market . It's very lively. Haha, what kind of fish is this? Auntie, what kind of fish is this? Dragonite fish. Dragonite fish. Yes, wow . This fish is so amazing. Look, it looks like this. The tofu factory looks like this. It's different. Haha , auntie, this is the spiny carp. How much is this per pound? How much is this per pound ? I sell this for 25 yuan, 25 yuan per pound. If it sells for 15 yuan per pound , give it to me. If there is something cheaper for you, please count it all at 20 yuan. 20 yuan. Yes, yes. Baicai Market bought such a cheap 1818. Can you give it all to my aunt ? Hahahaha, great, great, great, great, great, great, great. We successfully negotiated the price today. Take this red carp . It only comes ashore when there is a typhoon. Let's take this. Set up a stall and go back to the countryside. Hey, come and play in the countryside and sell. Hahaha, we are going to be weighed. Thirteen pounds, nine liang, oh, thirteen pounds, nine liang, haha, oh, oh , spicy. This 13 jin, two liang, aunt has settled the score. It is equal to 489. Haha , today we have 500 yuan and still have 11 yuan left. Now let's hurry up and sell out. Haha 489 With so much fish, let's quickly go to the countryside to set up a stall to see how much money we can make after selling out . We have already arrived at the vegetable market and are now ready to officially open the stall. The scientific name of this red carp is called Honglangya goby. It is also known as Ginseng in water is very rich in nutrients. Of course, it is actually rare in the vegetable market. Because it is difficult to catch, it usually only comes to the shore when it is windy or rainy, so fishermen can catch it. Today, we can sell it for 25 yuan per kilogram in the vegetable market. We are now preparing to officially open a stall. Ha, we are going to open a stall. Ha, this aunt is our first customer. Auntie weighs four pounds per catty, okay ? In Hokkien, this thing that weighs four pounds and is so curled up is called An Tiao Tiao. I don't know how everyone calls it . Maybe it's called differently in every place. Brother, it looks like this. One pound is so curled. Ha, it 's also curled up . You need another pound, right? Let's fry it. After it's fried, use it to make soup. Cut up some ginger and celery. Wow, that soup? It's very fresh. Take a bag and take it fresh. Don't worry. Come and hold it like this. One pound 2. Then, haha, one pound 2. It's so sharp. It's just 30. Isn't it said that it happens often ? The weather has been changing recently. I have a sister like this. 8 Liang is so cute . I will give you a big brother like this . The weight is so high. It's 50 yuan . When everyone is waiting for the goods, they will buy one or two pounds at once. Didn't you just buy tofu? Did you buy ginger? Just make soup with this tofu and ginger . I guarantee that you will buy this again in the future. Is half a catty okay? Handsome guy, it's only half a catty for 12 yuan . Ha, two handsome guys , half a catty is so cute. Ha, I'll give it to you 1 2 yuan, 5 cents, 12 yuan . Come here. Thank you. Thank you. Wait a minute. I'll find the money first. Three yuan. Thank you . Hello. How much do you want? The handsome guy looks like this. The handsome guy weighs a pound. He's so tall. Ah, 25 yuan for auntie, the beauty looks like this. Ha , one pound is so plump . Haha , do you want the auntie for 25 yuan? Auntie looks like this. Haha. One pound is so thick, so thick, I will give you another one, hahaha, this internet celebrity lady, hahaha , thank you sister for your support, one pound is so tall, so tall, we are all sold out , sister is our last customer, Baicai did the math today. I earned a total of 158 yuan. Although I didn't earn a lot , I earned 158 yuan every day. I record life through the lens and hope to deliver more laughter. Of course, I also hope that brothers and sisters who are busy can still feel the beauty of life when you watch my video. We are closing the stall and going home now, everyone. Follow me home and eat the food cooked by Maomao. The stall will be closed early today. Ha, I brought this special gift from Beijing back to share with my family. Let's follow me home and eat the food cooked by my mother. I'm back. I'll put things away first and see what my parents are doing. We're going to start eating. Wow, what's the dish today? Let me take a look at the snails, shrimps , mushrooms and bamboo shoots, fried meat , baby squid, snow clams, teal, hericium and mushrooms. What soup is today? Teal Hericium Teal Hericium Grandpa hasn't seen you for a long time Yeah, grandpa here Yeah yeah Hahaha Grandpa has something in his mouth My dad and mom haven't been in the picture for a long time Come to my house for dinner We want to eat We want to It's time to eat, my friends. Grandpa is going to show you something good before eating. What a good thing. Look at it. I'll put on some glasses, otherwise he can't see me. Grandpa is a bit old and a bit presbyopic. Look at it. It's good. Oh, China Central Radio and Television Station , um, what is this? Guess it, it's inside, it's inside, oh, the Spring Festival Gala is waiting for you, haha, I can't afford it, I can't afford it, but I am leaving for Beijing tomorrow. I may not be at home to celebrate the New Year this year. Hahaha, it doesn't matter . Haha, you can go anywhere to celebrate the New Year. Grandpa is right. It doesn't matter. It's rare to have such a good opportunity. It's the same for the Chinese New Year in Beijing . It's 7 o'clock. I have to watch the news. I have to drive again. Xinwen Lianbo is his favorite at first . My grandfather is really a loyal fan of Xinwen Lianbo. He watches Xinwen Lianbo every night and he watches it on time. The temperature in the south has started to cool down recently. I don't know if it's cold in Beijing now. Do you still remember it ? The last time I went to Beijing, it snowed for the first time. This time, Baicai went to Beijing. I specially brought some souvenirs to my friends in Beijing. I brought this to Baicai's hometown. When the time comes, I will pick more ripe loquats and bring some to share with you. By the way, this time I also brought this five-pointed star fruit and cabbage. I heard in my hometown that many people in the north only learned about this fruit from textbooks . I will pick some more for you to try and see if they taste good . Also, I went to the orchard to pick some longans in winter. Then I will bring them over to share with you the delicacies of our south.