This time, we've come to Atsugi Base! I'm Kuroyanagi from the Fleet Air Wing 4 of the Maritime Self-Defense Force. Nice to meet you. What kind of base is this? It's a base jointly used by the Maritime Self-Defense Force and the US Navy. What can we see here? Experience a ride on the Maritime Self-Defense Force patrol aircraft &quot;P-1&quot;. And also, experience inspection of the P-1 engine. We're planning to offer that! Can we ride and inspect it? Looking forward to it! Can we go see it right away...? Thank you very much! First, the briefing begins. Good morning! We'll conduct a briefing. First, let's check the plan. Aircraft number 08. Other crew members have been shown the documents. We'll listen carefully to the briefing. We'll confirm today's weather and precipitation forecast necessary for the flight. ORD! (Ordnance) Nothing special! IFT! (In-flight technician) We'll respond promptly MC34! We have one from 34. Since it's a flight to an area we don't usually fly to, I want to proceed with caution while ensuring safety. I'm a bit shocked because I cut my bangs too short, but I'll do my best today! MC12! To be able to destroy submarines, I'll adhere to the basics and conduct training. Full of energy FE! (Flight engineer) As for the aircraft configuration, the slats and CO-Pilot! We'll prioritize safety. TC2! (2nd Tactical Officer) We'll conduct communication safely, reliably, and swiftly. We'd like to deliver the splendid view of Mount Fuji to everyone. We'll ensure safe operation. Regarding today's flight around Mount Fuji It's been about a year since our last flight, As mentioned by the captain earlier, During formation, the IFF and radar will be turned off, So, for those sitting by the window, I'm &quot;JPOP&quot; the pilot, I'm sort of like a crew member, And I'm also the planner for this plan. When a plane as large as a commercial airliner It's such a powerful thing! I wish I could tell you. This is what we do on a daily basis. We're going to do a drill of this. That's how many crews we have on our P-1s. That's a lot of people flying these planes. To complete the mission, There's the ground crew, there's the maintenance crew, and then there's the They cook the meals, they take care of the air traffic control. Everyone on this base has their own job to do in order to fly one plane The motto of the Maritime Self-Defense Force is &quot;We all fly together. It's about teamwork. I hope that you can see the teamwork Attention! ...stay seated! Dismissed! Okay, we're on our way to the aircraft. Lots of P-1s outside! The crews are on their way to the aircraft Instead of crossing diagonally The Maritime Self-Defense Force They seem cheerful and happy. There are a lot of people, right? Rich in individuality! We're all family. Today's formation is with No.05! Parked in the back is the one flying with us today. And it is the lead aircraft. Description of P-1 Well, we are now going to go on a experience boarding of the P-1. I would like to hear a description of the aircraft. First of all, may I ask you to introduce yourself? I'm Lieutenant Commander Sugimoto of the Air Patrol Squadron 3. And my job is P-1 tactical coordinator. The job is to coordinate with the crew and the pilots on the plane. Tactical Coordinator I'm the captain of today's flight. My name is JPOP of the Air Patrol Squadron 3 JPOP...? This is... There is no culture of using nicknames It's just a name I happened to get. I am a pilot I'm curious about the JPOP content, though. Is that a secret? LOL. It's a military secrecy. lol What is P-1 ? Now let me explain. It's called a Maritime patrol aircraft, mainly patrolling Patrol over the sea is the mission Other rescue... Search and rescue. Searching for a yacht, for example. Searching for a plane that may have crashed And we have those kinds of missions. We attack submarines, we attack ships with missiles. In the term &quot;Maritime patrol aircraft&quot; An airplane with many jobs It's called that in the Maritime Self-Defense Force. We explain the airplane In the nose section at the very tip. You can't see what's inside, but the color of the plane is a little different. Yes, it is! There is a radar in here. It's for finding ships and submarines. In the past, radar used to search for targets by rotating. Now it's just a board that doesn't rotate. There is also a side. search for things! If it is a normal paint. It would block the radar signal. Uses paint that does not block radar signals. look closely, you'll see a lot of what looks like antennas. These are sensors to fly. All of these are necessary! Each has its own role. The whole thing is big. This is the front wheel. It's stored in the front after takeoff. On the ground, it looks like this This panel, now closed, but... Optical and infrared cameras are Comes out as one unit It's a ball-shaped thing I see that you deploy and store as needed. Yes. In addition to the regular video camera Say an infrared camera. It's interesting..! This one is closed too. It's called a bomb bay, and it carries weapons. There's a storage area in here. Open as needed Weapons are loaded and checked before flight. Fortunately, there's no opportunity to drop weapons on a mission. In case of an emergency, we can load up on weapons. so that we can do our mission. As for how many weapons can be mounted. It's a "trade" secret. There are many different kinds. For example, it can carry anti-submarine torpedoes and missiles We can actually open it up in the air, so You'll see it. Why are the colors red and yellow different? This one is red and that one Different colors for different purposes Each with an antenna. Drop the microphone to listen to underwater sounds We drop it from the plane. It receives the radio waves of it. Some antennas receive only, others transmit, receive and control. So there are different colors for different purposes. The size is also slightly different Look at it from close up, you can see Actually, the shape of the fuselage is In the upper half and the lower half It's a bumpy shape Indeed it is! It's more like a combination of semicircles than a cylindrical shape. The upper half circle is To be able to pressurize the cabin even at high altitude By applying pressurization. Can protect crew from low pressure. On the other hand, for the lower half of the Areas that do not require pressurization, such as weapon loading zones These two are combined. The window is overhanging. It's called a bubble window Our eyes are one of the sensors So, to make it easier to keep a visual watch The cockpit has a very large window. It's called a camera hatch. There's a window where we can take a camera shot This is the seat of Lieutenant Commander Sugimoto You can see outside from here. If you actually look at it You can see it from right above to right below. There are seats like that in the back. Basically 360 degree lookout You can also see it with your eyes What is a Maritime patrol aircraft ? The prime (main) P-1 Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. All parts of this aircraft are made in Japan. It is a radar or Various companies cooperate to manufacture the parts. The plane that joined it ... It has become a purely domestic patrol plane It has four engines, but The P-1 will replace the P-3C patrol aircraft As for performance, it can fly 1.3 times faster Now it can fly 1.3 times higher Roughly the same specs as commercial airliners It can also fly slowly! The ability to fly slowly is also important to the mission. It's different from the engine of a fighter plane. It's a little bit closer to a airliners... It's a turbofan engine. Precious engine. After the flight, we'll take a closer look at the inside of the engine! Side view of P-1 You can't see it with your eyes, but there are sensors on the wingtips. Wingtips... radio waves emitted by ships and airplanes. It is equipped with a sensor that can capture There are limits to active search, but... If we can passively look for radio waves emitted by something else. Obtain information such as the location of the other party So that's attached to it. radar on the wings as well. It looks thin, but there is such equipment inside! Holes in the fuselage? Tires are expensive. If the outside wears out, reattach the outside. Use it again Eco. Eco! Now back to... This is the place to look for submarines. Hydrophone... Hole to pack the microphone And lots of them in the plane. And you can pick and drop them. the ones you know you need in advance. Here's one by one, manually. Ordnance packed it in. Drop it, from here. It's got a lot of them on it. This is a feature unique to patrol aircraft. Lots of holes! If there is a ship in distress From these holes Dropping a glowing target or So we try to make it easier to rescue I see..! What you don't get in a regular plane... A tail. It's got a tail! What kind of tail is that? This is called a MAD (magnetic detector) When a submarine is navigating in the ocean Not visible to the eye, of course. And radar can't see it if it's deep in the ocean. So how do we find them? One is by listening to the sound of the submarine in the water. The other is MAD! A lump of iron in the sea... When the submarine is sailing... That's the only place where the magnetic field of the earth is disturbed. When a plane with sensors attached flies over it. Detects "submarine present." to confirm that reaction. From the plane's fuselage Unaffected by electronics Sensors are installed Back side of P-1 It was attached to the front side It has what looks like a camera on it. When a missile comes flying at you Chaff and flare to protect yourself Detectors to emit it It tells us which direction the threat is coming from. I know you like Ace Combat. Thank you very much! LOL! Is there any significance in the livery of the aircraft? What is the meaning of this color? We fly mostly over the ocean, but It's better to be as undetectable as possible from submarines and ships. In doing our mission. Hardest to find... Floating on the sea Colors that can hide in the sky. After much research and study I heard that they came up with this color. It's not like a transport and a fighter plane. It's very interesting to listen to. Of course, flying safely is And then how do you make sure that the mission is how to make sure you do it right I usually do a lot of training... I have a purpose for each day. Pilot JPOP's You can see the size of the aircraft Today we are going to fly Sit in the cockpit. Be careful not to bump your head. Everyone is experiencing this Don't bump it. Briefing There will be an Pre-flight briefing just before the take off. Co-pilot, Lieutenant Aoyagi Pre-flight briefing is conducted Changes only Weather's wind forecast has changed Now runway one-niner Change after 1200. North wind 10 knots Runway Zero One (Runway 01 in use) No other changes Check fire extinguisher designation Front! (Fire extinguisher) Middle! (Fire extinguisher) Rear! (fire extinguisher) Disaster prevention conductor/jumpmaster! Detaching stations and As per board Confirmation of Condition-4 Any questions? That's all. We will do it as co-pilots have just been briefed. Squadron leader briefings are... I would like to follow the basics. Weather information from the preceding number 05. Now we are waiting. We're going to take the route around Mt. Fuji. Around Mikomoto Island if the weather is bad. Pay attention to weather information. No other changes Any questions! Let's be safe first! Ready for takeoff In the cabin, preparations are underway for takeoff. TACCO seats, communication seats Seats are different depending on the type of work. This is the cockpit. There is a female maintenance worker in the front! Thrilling... All crew, pilot Now from 05 (the aircraft that preceded it) There are no major problems with the weather, Although there is a slight turbulence. Engines start. Come see maintenance crew in action! Good moment when the engine ignites and the sound changes. As they just explained. This engine is purely made in Japan. Sounds great! Hand sign... I learned a little about hand signs at the C-2 washing (see previous video). The P-1 has four engines. The maintenance crews are in position It's cool, like Top Gun. Now the plane is moving! Ground crews are waving at us. I'm off! It's taking off. We're on the runway. The speed is getting faster and faster Airborne! We were airborne in no time at all! A view of takeoff from the ground Sounds like a commercial airliner. This is a view of the cabin Very dazzling due to the wide field of view. The crew is wearing sunglasses. We're going to head to the Mt.Fuji We're going to join up with the 05 ! The view looks like this! We can see outside clearly. Which is Enoshima? Enoshima island is there Boso Peninsula on the left On the left is Yokohama In the foreground is the Miura peninsula 5 minutes to Shonan! Find P-1 around Mt Fuji. I want to see Mt Fuji Front! Can you see it? Fuji is close..! It is a rare experience to board a Self-Defense Forces aircraft and see Mt.Fuji! The first training today is a formation around Mt. When you go downwind of Mt. Maneuvering to avoid danger. It's not shaking at all. I could see that the pilots were highly skilled. Did you do any exercises at Mt. I did. LOL. I think it's the Higashi-Fuji Training Area. I never thought I would see the training grounds again in this way. lol Circling around Mt. Looking for another aircraft It's a clear day today. The plane is turning... I found something Black grains! LOL! Just under the cam It's right in front! There it is! There's the other one. Found the preceding aircraft! Finally, we get close to about 21 meters. 21 meters! Pilots rely on visual... Relying on the size and shape... Pilots know their exact position. close..! Wow, that's great! The aircraft is so close is so close that you can see the words &quot;Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force&quot;. I like the P-1 from the back. Hey,you're sitting in a very nice place. Some of the members are the first time to see the formation! We are getting very close to the fuselage! I can read the text Circling with neighboring aircraft! When you are on the left side To come in lower than your opponent. On the left cheek of the opponent's plane and the radar No.1 engine Front side is where they overlap There are lots of references (visual reference points) Pass under the aircraft Cross-under! I'm on the left now. Moves to the right of the opponent's plane! First, he moves down by one plane Two airplanes Go through to the other side Now it's going down. Now moving to the right Going through It is a cross-under between huge aircraft! Now the right position. Before the move, it was in position 3. Now it's in position 2. A little bit ahead. I'm flying with an adjustment I'm correcting it now. Round ball coming out from under nose. That's the lightwave sensor It's an optical camera and infrared. We're turning left now. For the position of the second plane We need to gain altitude. Position the aircraft in such a way that it does not change the visibility of the other side's aircraft. As you gain altitude So you have to give it more power. You can't get it in the right position Matching rate of turn Now matched They're turning in parallel. Together Fuji and P-1 Beautiful The bank is at 30 degrees. It's leaning a lot! It seems to be assimilated into the color of Japanese sky and sea. You are not talking to the person on the next plane? Yes, it is! Seeing the opponent's movement Following! Combined with the blue of the sky If I wave, will they wave back? I think they will respond if you wave to them! They are waving! Thank you very much! That's how close it is! If only someone could sign. Maybe you could speak in sign language! He's entering a left turn. We'll follow Now we're going to follow them. It's hard to tell from the video. On this side, it's going to be slower. Flying with care. Does it change each time as to who takes the lead? The leader aircraft always moves first. The leader plane will take us. The leader plane was decided even before it took to the skies, We're flying in sync with the other side. The leader aircraft will always go through the same motion. On the other hand, a column plane so as not to change the positional relationship. Image like a single board No one is looking ahead now, right? The leader plane monitors the others, including those of its wingmen. We trust the leader plane to fly It's our eyes, too. So a leader plane is of two planes A leader has the responsibility for everyone's life. Pilot's hometown From Atami! When I pass through this area. You're flying over hometown right now. I thought you were going to fly without speaking. Surprisingly, both of you Communication is 11 you have to talk to each other. (Without communication) The image of flying silently I was surprised because he talks a lot! It shakes so much! It's all right. We're in a shaky airspace right now. I can't believe how calm everyone is...! Situation of the sea It means it's windy. If you look at the shape of a wave like that The wind is blowing about 25 knots right now. You can see that. The wind is blowing, so you can expect it to sway. Differences in wind speed and direction due to altitude and In cases where there are both light and strong winds. It shakes when there is such a difference in wind My hands are sweating. Break Formation and Next Mission Break formation on command from the leader. From the leader Stand by. Breaks Break formation Break formation I see the belly of the fuselage Formation flight completed Warning and surveillance We'll be on patrol and surveillance duty. Japanese territorial sea, Contiguous zone Outside of that, there is a large body of water called the Exclusive Economic Zone. All of this is under Japanese sovereignty and scope of activities Patrolling every day. We look for strange boats. one ship at a time. I will now show you how we find and monitor them. It's flying pretty close to sea level. We are checking for any suspicious ships. The ship in front! Ordnance is taking pictures through the camera window. Starboard. Now all crew members Looking at the points and identifying them. Shooting the ship! Ship is close! So close that you can see loads, letters, etc. It was a suspicious vessel alert surveillance! anti-submarine operation Next, anti-submarine operation Turning the radar now. Simulated exercise of detecting a submarine. You'll get to see the sonobuoy being loaded. To the back of the plane! Preparing to drop sonobuoy Sonobuoy is in charge of Ordnance. Start dropping sonobuoys. Sonobuoys are loaded. Next, the rotary launcher on the other side is loaded. After the drop, the submarine detection We are monitoring information from MAD. MAD man! MAD man GOOD! What are the crews doing now? We just passed directly over the submarine, so There was a response to magnetic detection! She told TACCO that the submarine would be there. Everyone on the plane had a perceived awareness. At the same time, drop a simulated sonobuoy. We will now perform sound tracking. Watch out for the hole We're going to simulate a target attack drill. Two minutes to attack! Bomb bay doors open. Simulated torpedo drop. Attacks against submarines! Bombay doors are open. This is a simulated drill, but in actuality, weapons will be dropped from here. Attack complete. Bomb bay doors close. It's back in the cockpit! I think I'm going to get motion sick...lol About 150 meters You can see that the aircraft is tilted Tour of the cabin This is the bubble hatch! It's spherical, it's deep. It looks good. You can see all the way down. You can see the top very well We can monitor from the sea to the sky. Review of today's mission One is formation training The other is an alert surveillance drill The last one was conducted against submarines Simulated attack carried out We need to stand up to nature, so We're dealing with a very bad working environment. In such a situation, everyone Work hard at their assigned posts. That's what makes a successful mission. Going back to Atsugi now! LANDING We are back to the city from the sea. Except for the shaky area. It was bumpy at sea, but It's like a commercial airliner now. The runway is getting closer! Watching the lights called PAPI Determine altitude and approach. LANDING Safe landing! Here we go We are going to a certain place! Cleaning the aircraft The washing station Always wash the aircraft because it's been to the ocean. Because the salt is on the fuselage. Basically, it always goes in. The square area is the washing area! The aircraft is placed inside the area In the middle of the area There it is! It works by stepping on a switch to release water. So you're stepping on it to get the water out. Water comes out of the bottom left corner. Windows are being washed. This is what it looks like from outside! Water is being sprayed from the ground The top of the fuselage is also flushed with water Washing face...lol Fuselage cleaning completed The aircraft is now shining! P-1 is cool to see at dusk Getting off the plane. Crews are getting out of the P-1 first. It is cool to see the crew come down, isn't it? Salute! Thank you very much! Inspections begin immediately after landing. And now I will show you the maintenance work. Maintenance is a necessity. P-1 is in a large hangar. We came to the hangar! I changed into the same maintenance uniform as the crew. What are we going to do now? We're going to do a &quot;post-flight inspection&quot; of the P-1. A post-flight inspection performed each time an aircraft lands. Please wear a helmet and gloves Thank you very much! Inspection, I will do! How will it be inspected? So this is how it opens. Of course, it's a different engine than a fighter jet. Engine! Very big! Now that the cover is open, you can see the intake So we're ready to go. Can you tell me about the maintenance? Let me explain about this maintenance. We are in charge of engine maintenance. We will now do a (simulated) post-flight inspection Daily Inspection... For the purpose of the next flight To be able to complete the mission safely. This is the purpose. Exterior Inspection! Individual rivets and... Panels and .. Has it dropped off in flight? Also, on the next flight there is no possibility of falling. Can I touch it to check? You can touch it. I don't see any missing parts. These fins, too. You see if there are any chips. There's no chips. It's very shocking (to the public) to see things drop out. We have an obligation to prevent such accidents. Now, like the engine on the right side And then you open up all the cowls. We're actually going to start inspecting the inside of the engine. Let's open the cowl. I don't know how to open the cowl. Excuse me... I've seen mechanics doing this. I'll do it first. Don't get your hand caught in it. Do it this way. Please press here And it opens in this state? Once you leave, please. It opened! That's great. Assistance, please. That's pretty heavy. Now it's not falling down. locked! This is with hydraulic pressure... Fan duct cowl is hydraulically operated This is the device that produces the hydraulic pressure for this purpose. Hydraulic pressure is applied Click. Great! The cowl opens by hydraulic pressure. Now you can go inside! It's a lot of work just to open it. There are 4 engines of this lol There are four of these...! Finally It's hard work..! Let's check the inside of the engine. We're going to do an internal inspection of the engine... You will experience it! I would like to try it! How is it inspected? Do you always inspect with lights like this? Yes, I do! What kind of inspection are you doing now? We are checking for cracks, etc. Kazari will try to get in. Excuse me..! It's the first time I've ever sat on an engine! It's cold...lol Amazing! It's big enough to fit all of my body! Mainly to check that there is no damage purpose of this inspection! Thank you very much! Government-supplied I will check it! Damage to each individual blade, or cracks, etc. Can I touch the blades? No cracks. Just to be able to sit here Specialized inspections Visual inspection from top. Harness in place I'm just checking to make sure it's not coming off. There's a lot of places to hit. I mean, there are a lot of places where it hits the wiring. The engine side and the harness If they hit each other And that's where the film break off. This thing in front of you is the engine. Monitor engine status And it controls the engine. So it's a pretty important part Look below, there is the auxiliary equipment A tank for supplying oil to the engine. A pump, for example. And so on. Critical components are integrated here. This is where the air is compressed This is the compressor part! As for the engine So this is also a visual inspection. For maintenance that involves disassembly We do this every two months or every 400 hours. This time it's a post-flight inspection. Visual inspections are the main method of inspection. Professionalism of mechanics I'm only doing one right now. You inspect 4 rounds every time...! For example... A person's life, for example. When a situation like Later on we I should have done that. We do convincing maintenance with no regrets. I asked the maintenance crew a question! As a maintenance crew , did you want to be in charge of this P-1? "Of course I did!" Mm-hmm? I have been in charge of this aircraft for less than a year. I used to be in charge of P-3C maintenance. What do you think? I've only been servicing it for about three years. I really have a lot to learn. It's fun. On the plane. ...P-1, of course. I put pressure on him lol. It's only been a month since I was assigned. I'm glad I came here and touched the P-1. Are you teaching from your seniors? Yes, I learned something today. Great and serious. How is your senior usually? They are very kind and helpful... Our seniors treat us like brothers. He is a big brother! The elder brother is doing his best. The tactical coordinator will explain the P-1 From TACCO Sugimoto's point of view Well... the P-1 is It's a &quot;handyman&quot; plane. It serves a multi-role mission and They are actually required to perform a variety of duties. Not only warning and surveillance, but also searching for submarines. We're going to go and help people. Or arming That is why this plane is called a handyman. We need to be prepared for a variety of situations. Like the P-1 ride. How comfortable is the ride... To begin with, I get easily intoxicated on airplanes. I still feel sick But that's not to say that the plane is not comfortable. Due to the mission's characteristics, flying at low altitudes and Taking sharp turns and... Because the mission comes first and comfort is not a priority. Comfort would be nice, though. And the pilots are very careful. However, some missions are more demanding on the crew than others. Sometimes we have to fly maneuvers. When simply moving to another base Comfortable to fly at high altitude. The seats are spacious, I can see outside well, and the cabin is comfortable. In that sense, it's a comfortable ride. For fans of P-1 and those who want to become a Self-Defense Forces member. Finally, the aircraft called P-1... There are a lot of fans For P-1 fans The P-1 of the Maritime Self-Defense Force With various friends It's very hard work, but it's I'm very happy to have this job, and I take pride in my work. I'm still learning. If you want to join the Maritime Self-Defense Force Or if you want to get on a plane. Air Self-Defense Force fighter plane The helicopter and the movement is very cool. There are many advantages of the Maritime Self-Defense Force's aircraft that the Air Self-Defense Force's and Maritime Self-Defense Force's helicopters do not have. If anyone is interested in I can ask them to come and see the planes and I would be happy! Thank you very much!