Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, have since their inception. More recently they've become sort of a buzzword let these Twitter crusaders fool you, GMOs They have an impact on everyone. Take the US, for example, where the most produced In 2014 over 361 million tons of corn were That corn is then used to make a variety of Not just food: toothpaste, aspirin and varnish. Corn is also the most popular animal feed, all US corn is genetically modified, you'll That's why this week on Behind the Business started it all: the world's largest seed Monsanto was originally founded as a chemical Queeny was in his forties by that point and The Great Chicago Fire of 1871 left his family He had to quit his education in order to start drug firm. Through hard work and dedication John climbed and he eventually moved to St. Louis in 1891 Drug Company, the largest drug distributor Fiver years later John married Olga Monsanto of his own in 1901, he named his company after John established Monsanto in order to produce 300 times sweeter than table sugar and has Saccharin was first synthesized in 1879 and today, back in the 1900s nobody in the US Germany had a near-monopoly on its production, the United States. John's newly established business was the market turned out to be very lucrative. One of his earliest customers was actually in its popular Diet Cokes. By 1905 John had added two more food additives which up until then were also produced only In its first decade Monsanto barely turned undercutting them. When the United States declared war on Germany halted, leaving a huge void in the market Its revenue jumped from 81,000 dollars in Monsanto as one of the big US chemical companies. 1919 also marked Monsanto's first steps that made aspirin and rubber catalyzers. This was Monsanto's first big acquisition, The 1920s saw Monsanto expand its product most notable one being polychlorinated biphenyl, Now, PCBs can come in various molecular configurations, toxic. They're proven carcinogens and pollutants need about 200 days of direct sunlight just If you're thinking that this was some exotic, PCBs were used as coolants in various electrical power transformers and capacitors. Odds are, if you go to some of the more neglected with PCB warning labels there. Monsanto was the only US producer of PCBs banned the substance in 1979. Internal documents leaked in 2002 show that PCBs more than a decade before their eventual In fact, Monsanto's first move at circumventing in 1926 when the company incorporated a town Back then local jurisdictions were responsible the town was very lenient with its regulations, its largest PCB factory there. That town still exists, by the way, but it's The case with PCBs is one of the earliest culture that has by now become nothing short The sad thing is that Monsanto's awful reputation see more about that later. So, by the time the Second World War had started the US military's premiere chemical supplier. Their most valuable product at the time was of synthetic rubber. Interestingly enough, Monsanto was also a They were instrumental in the development two atomic bombs dropped on Japan. During the postwar decades Monsanto got into Their first one, called dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane was banned less than 30 years later due to Another herbicide produced by Monsanto was the US military used it as a defoliant during Agent Orange was very effective at destroying toxic that it also ended up contaminating a million Vietnamese children to be born with The early 1970s saw Monsanto make huge progress In fact, Monsanto was the first company to of LEDs down from 200 dollars to less than Just a few years later though the US government use of harmful chemicals. The bans on PCBs and several pesticides hurt that several class-action lawsuits were initiated of dollars. In this period of distress Monsanto's executives from chemical production and towards agricultural This transition occurred during the early young science. Monsanto was early to the party, which gave start. In 1983 Monsanto scientists led by Robert modify plants. This pivotal achievement ushered in a new Now, despite what the armchair experts from modified crops are not bad in and of themselves. The reason there is such a negative perception times in history, people take a good thing, it eventually becomes a bad thing. GMO crops are a perfect example of this. There are a number of ways to genetically of the people who eat it: the plant's seed-to-seed period or outright or vegetable. Monsanto, however, in their quest for ever-increasing Back in the early 1980s, when Monsanto was its best products, they discovered glyphosate, company from potential bankruptcy. Monsanto marketed their herbicide under the decades it became the most widely used herbicide The reason for its success lies in Monsanto's You see, in the past farmers had to plant They needed that space in order to till their their crops and kill them. When Monsanto developed GMO crops that were avenue of cultivation emerged. Suddenly, farmers could plant their crops dump tons of Roundup directly onto their crops As you can imagine this was a huge increase reduction of not having to till the land as GMO solution. Up until the year 2000 Monsanto was the sole they held, and it is during this time that today. Roundup was, of course, just the beginning, billions into the development of various pesticides Last year alone they spent 1.5 billion dollars paid off: for 80% of the USA's total corn acreage, One reason for Monsanto's immense success of patents on their seeds. Farmers who plant Monsanto's GMO seeds are actually do with them. They're not allowed, for example, to replant anyone else, thus ensuring that Monsanto's The language of these rules is so convoluted even in cases when the wind randomly blows To complete its transformation into an agricultural of its chemical business into a separate company This was Monsanto's attempt at a fresh start, a relatively new company that just happens predecessor. Of course, this was all for show, as the new that had led the old company for decades. What they did with Solutia was to essentially past. Solutia inherited not only the struggling litigation relating to Monsanto's PCBs and It probably won't come as a surprise that only to be eventually swallowed up by the The new Monsanto, of course, has been incapable hasn't stopped it's global expansion. Today it is bigger than ever, with 15 billion About half of that money, by the way, came the GMO seeds resistant to it. It's sad how despite all the boycotting so ingrained in modern agriculture that there's By all accounts Monsanto is here to stay, soon stop being an independent company. Germany's pharmaceutical titan Bayer, on had been trying to acquire Monsanto for the Just a few days ago Monsanto accepted a $66 needs regulatory approval, sure, but consider in the past 14 months we've seen the mergers and so far analysts are giving the Bayer-Monsanto Even if the merger fails though, it's very future. From an investment point of view it would controls the world's food supply, but sometimes actually make the world a better place. Hi there! I hope you liked the video despite the rather I can tell you that making this video was I mean here at Business Casual we try to take tends works most of the time, but when you've you know, literally Hitler for most people, Nevertheless, it was pretty interesting learning If you'd like to see another video of ours the history of Boeing, from the time of the To watch the full Behind the Business series, access our main playlist, and if you'd like by clicking over there in the middle right. Once again, thanks a lot for watching, and