- Hi, it's me; Tim Dodd, Here's a fun question that but I actually get asked this quite often. Why do we hear a call-out like roger roll or roll program complete, at which point we see the rocket rotate - [Announcer] Roll commence, clear. Roll checks out. Roll program has commenced. - The best example of this, which had a really obvious and As soon as it cleared the tower, you can see it making a very scary-looking roll. Now, a maneuver like this makes sense when a vehicle's asymmetrical but why do cylindrical or Titan or Atlas or Delta IV, why do they even bother doing a roll and can't rockets just tip over and go in whatever do a little pitch here, as long as the pointy end is going in the direction it's intended to go, who cares which side of the and which side is facing space? So today, first we'll define the pitch, yaw, roll and their Then we're gonna dive in the first place, take and the relationships to trajectories and then we'll look at to orientations, including some rockets that don't roll on ascent to line with their trajectories at all. Let's get started. - [Announcer] Three, two, one, lift off. (upbeat music) - This is one of those topics I love, where at first, the reason then you hear one I guess that makes of some other reasons and learn of all these weird little edge there's actually a lot to unpack here. And just to clarify things, we're specifically talking of rockets and not their gravity turn. These are two totally different things. We're focusing on this, (upbeat techno music) not this. This, (upbeat techno music) not this. So let's start off with a yaw and roll and how they You may have heard the especially when talking about airplanes. On an airplane, pitch is the Yaw's the nose going left or right and roll, you can think of the wingtips going up or down while the With airplanes, it's really yaw and roll because airplanes have really obvious landing gear, a cockpit And you might think how do on a cylindrical rocket? Although a rocket is pretty symmetrical, it's still vital to Otherwise, your rocket might go north instead of east or something. So let's take a jetliner and tail stabilizer. Hey, look, the fuselage kind of looks like a rocket, perfect. So now we still have We just stand this baby up This was literally true when which is basically, all Gemini, Soyuz programs were. So now with a rocket on the launch pad, we can look at the cockpit yaw and roll. When sitting in the cockpit, up and down is rotating on the y-axis, yawing, left or right is and rolling left or Unlike an airplane, the pitch, generally isn't controlled but it's actually controlled via a gimbal and perhaps to help control roll. However, wings and fins are sometimes used for stability in the atmosphere. A single engine on the bottom of a rocket can only provide two axes of And this is because the engine goes through the center of the rocket. Because of that, it can only So in order for most single-engine rockets to have roll control, you'll normally see auxiliary or the outer perimeter of the rocket. These auxiliary thrusters and I think they're the most obvious on the original Atlas SM-65 A rocket and there's several vernier thrusters on the bottom of the Soyuz Rockets as well but some single-engine rockets get clever and control their roll via like the RS-68 on the You can see the engineers cleverly point and steer the dual gas generator exhausts on each side of the Now if you need to brush and the open cycle, I recently of a few common engine cycles in my Is SpaceX's Raptor Engine the Both rockets that have or at least two combustion chambers like the RD-180 on the Atlas V. You can point the engines which will induce your x-axis roll. So now that we know how a now we can get into why a rocket Well, to begin, a rocket throughout the flight so it doesn't spin so fast it tears itself apart. Okay, sure, that's the most basic reason of why the rocket needs but we still get to the question why do they intentionally roll once they get off the launch pad? - [Announcer] Roll complete and (mumbles) - So I'm gonna tell you the reason here then we're gonna dive in and I'm going to define a few more things. The rocket rolls to align so its flight path becomes (laughs) We have a lot to unpack in just that one sentence, huh? So first, let's talk about the azimuth. Now, depending on the rockets need to head to and a fun reminder here, I like to say to go to space, you go you need to go sideways which really, that's all orbit is and now, to get to your desired orbit. You wanna make sure that that is pointing in a very, very Now if you were to launch a straight east, not only of the Earth's rotation which gives the rocket a nice little your vehicle on a zero degree inclination. It's like a nice little belt or another fun example of inclination is the International Space Station which is on a 51.6 degree inclination. Now it's on this exact inclination so the Russians can participate and they can launch without or without doing a costly dogleg maneuver. And just as a reference, if out of Kennedy Space Center, you'd be on a 28.6 degree inclination which you may notice is the exact latitude of the Space Center. So here's where we get The azimuth is basically on the launch pad, which to go to get to your desired orbit? But we should pause here for a because this definitely confused me a bit. Let's be sure and note the difference between the azimuth and the inclination. The azimuth is what's on the North on the nav ball is zero degrees while East is 90, South is Now this does not line A zero degree inclination while a polar orbit is minimum inclination So flying due east will only correspond to a zero degree inclination if you were launching on the equator. And another side note, or orbits that follow are between zero and If the rocket is flying it's still between zero and 90 degrees because inclination is really how far off angle the And of course, it's not If you wanna go to 51.6 degrees and rendezvous with the you don't actually point at 51.6 degrees. You actually point at about 45 degrees but now we're getting that takes into account and spherical trigonometry a little too far into So now that we know that the same path to get to space we're starting to get as to why they might intentionally roll. For our next clue, we than the launch pads themselves and since we've mentioned and the Saturn V, let's take a look at one of the most famous a launch pad that saw lots of launches from both these vehicles and Falcon Heavy, of course, I'm talking about Launch Complex 39A at Kennedy Space Center. LC 39A is a great example because it's perfectly lined Take a look here. We can see the flame trench and the crawler way perfectly So let's start off with the Saturn V which first launched from 39A on November 9th, 1967 on May 14th, 1973. With vehicle crawled out on the pad, you'll see the launch umbilical with its crew access and connects to the This is where the astronauts get in and once they're in, they're facing, with the top of their heads, due east and their feet, due west. So of course, along the rest of the vehicle such as the fuel and electrical umbilicals that connected the rocket to had some external raceways and all that kind of stuff when talking about the was a thing called the IMU. The IMU or the instrument unit sat on top of the Saturn V's third stage which housed the rockets guidance systems. This included a digital computer, pretty big deal at the time, an analog flight control computer, accelerometers and some gyroscopes. So in the case of the Saturn the launch azimuth was 72 north of due east. So while on launch pad, the flight path and the belly of the off from each other. And here's where we for the roll program. Now instead of moving to just face the belly of the rocket at that 18 degree angle, the a roll to basically between the flight path and the It would have a value Now all the rocket has This made it so the computer really only had to calculate one set making the math and the Less variables equals a good thing. It's nice to keep it simple. Another physical consideration is a thing called gimbal lock. Now gimbals can freely rotate and align themselves to which can then tell the guidance computers where the vehicle is pointing. Now, by zeroing out one of those numbers, you're keeping the gimbal as far away from potential gimbal lock as possible. And a gimbal that locks up So in order to demonstrate why is a good thing, let's in Kerbal Space Program. Now by default, when you build a rocket, it's aligned perfectly with pitch aligned north and south and yaw aligned east and west. So to head out on an equatorial zero degree inclination orbit, you need to press only a and in this example, that is the D key which will yaw over due east, one finger flying, nice and easy. Now let's rotate the rocket away from being perfectly and follow that perfectly zero Now this can still easily be done when you're super, super but all kidding aside, you're but it is noticeably harder. So why not just keep it simple? Well here's another example This is a map of Downtown Waterloo, Iowa. Notice that the streets run and from Northwest to Southeast. And they're aligned to to true north. Now if you're walking around, that you wouldn't just in your head and start on this side of the river as north and anything on this side as south. It just makes navigating a lot easier than thinking about So if the rocket and the launchpad are always in a fixed they pretty much always we'll talk about that more in a second; the easiest thing to do to do a quick roll to align This takes the navigation from being a three-dimensional equation to just a two-dimensional equation and removes a ton of I know it doesn't seem like Now of course whether the is a bit pedantic because Well, there's still some Sticking with Apollo, the astronauts heads were pointing due east on the launchpad. They were actually on the But here's a fun fact. Do you actually know the command module in the Saturn V had exactly I don't exactly know why but I think it's kind of interesting. But this meant when the the commander could look in the blasts protective cover and get a visual reference So by zeroing out the roll, the horizon would appear across the window which made it easy to use as a reference. This also made it so if the commander saw the ground suddenly coming they may have considered had a good visual reference on whether or not that'd be necessary. Another reason why there's of a rocket is to place the radio antennas and the receivers in the optimal place to have best contact with This is especially true which if it had ascended with the orbiter on top of the external fuel tank, it would have had a much When we're talking it's roll program was even more necessary due to its unique shape. Not only was it for the wings and the struts but by flying with the orbiter in the wake of the external fuel tank, there was actually a 20% And although most rockets they almost always have some Take a look at the Saturn V, it had very large bumps that definitely aren't insignificant when factoring in the ascent profile. You'll see these areas where is housed inside sections called raceways. You notice there are on each side of the Falcon You can tell the two outer are 180 degrees opposite each other because of those two different raceways but back to the space shuttle. The shuttle controlled its pitch and roll via gimbaling nozzles on Yes, the main space shuttle and gimbal a lot but to maintain the center of thrust going through the center of mass. By using the solid rocket the gimbal vectors are relative to the center of mass. This probably makes it easier to control. This is also relevant like the Falcon Heavy which both have a roll aligns the cores kind of Now, this might not be a huge deal or not but let's just take a look and if it were flying with its engines in a roll perpendicular to the horizon, the engines that are on would have a different amount of leverage over the vehicle compared to that center engine or center core. So I'm not entirely sure but I think this might be another reason why they normally fly pretty but they also fly with these for stage separation so the boosters have the lowest chances of So now while we're on the and SpaceX, here's a fun little fact. The Falcon 9 does not perform a roll program to align to its azimuth and neither does the Electron rocket. (upbeat techno music) Both the Falcon 9 and and yaw over however much is necessary and roll for aerodynamic considerations and a few other variables as well. But controlling a rocket in is actually a lot harder than it sounds. It took a generation of grad students to actually solve the linear algebra and have access to on the rockets to do for this type of control. So if the Falcon 9 and don't need to roll, why do they? Well, apparently, for fun. So I totally got trolled here by Elon because on June 12, 2019, SpaceX launched a trio of satellites from the Canadian Space Agency. Soon after liftoff, the Falcon 9 did a pretty substantial roll. Now, again, rockets aren't and although the Falcon 9 it's likely that this particular launch had a roll like this due to Customers might have certain constraints and with this particular launch perhaps they needed to for the payload to best The Falcon 9 is also perhaps little unique and that it for sure wants at stage separation. So the first stage has both to help do that flip maneuver. Since the Falcon 9 has only that are 180 degrees this means if the vehicle only one set of thrusters instead of two. Here's another fun story. Have you ever seen the It unintentionally rolled after takeoff. This was due to the gas generator exhaust that has a slight angle to it. So just like how the Delta IV's RS-68 uses its gas generators to roll, the nine Merlin engines from the gas generators exhaust, it took a second for the engine gimbals to cancel the roll out. And one more reason why Rockets roll is for the fairing separation. Now I don't exactly know to choosing whether on its y-axis or its z that this is definitely For instance, from what SpaceX tends to ditch their or up and down while ULA off to the sides on its z-axis. Why exactly each launch in this manner, I'm not sure So a few 21st century to align to the azimuth program out but perhaps my favorite were Soviet era rockets. Remember near the beginning, when I said it'd be too and/or the launch pad to well that's actually exactly what the Soviet Union came up with for their R-7 family of That's right, the entire actually rotates to align the Now some downsides to this is your azimuth might change ever so slightly so by aligning the launch you might lose some flexibility and flight path. This is something the new now that it has a digital flight computer and it can now align itself Although crewed missions which utilizes that there was still perhaps the most advanced, most ahead of its time rocket, the Soviet Union's N-1 (coughs) never did, follow its flight path using both pitch and yaw. It had some roll control thrusters that were undersized for and then upgraded for the fourth launch but they weren't used They were just used for stability. (sighs) I still really It's such an awesome rocket. So to summarize, rockets and like all rocket there's actually some good well, it's generally easier to roll to align the vehicle to its azimuth than it is to move the launchpad. It makes for easier calculations Rockets roll for aerodynamic They roll for the and visual references. They roll for fairing They roll to align auxiliary and they roll for best and down links. (sighs) So does this help It's another one of those fun things where you probably know but it's just kind of hard to Hopefully, this helps us appreciate just how many of these little but important decisions need to come up with every single day. There's always a reason for Let me know what other questions you have about roll programs or rockets or rocket science in general I have a crazy long list I'm still trying to chew so stay tuned, there's still I owe a huge thank you for literally being right right now still fact-checking a few things in this actual video. So if you like to help fact-check or find little fun quirks and do all these other for videos and have and things like that, please consider becoming a Patreon member where you'll gain access to exclusive live streams and by going to patreon.com/everydayastronaut. Seriously, thank you. I couldn't make these videos While you're online, definitely where you can find things like this full four stage combustion cycle shirt and a ton of other new things. And don't forget, I actually I don't do like print-on-demand. So if you see a shirt that you like, it might not be there in a month. So just keep that in especially as new releases come out because they can sell out really quickly and while you're there, you by clicking on the music on iTunes or Spotify. Everything in my videos so check it out, put it on Let me know what you think. Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (upbeat music)