Full order books, but also ever-increasing competitive and price pressure characterize the economic situation in the German heavy transport industry. The fact that it is becoming increasingly difficult to reliably calculate large and heavy transports is partly due to the persistently high number of construction sites on the motorways and official restrictions. But bridge demolitions, such as here on the A 45 near Ludenscheid, mean that important geographical axes cannot be used in the long term. In addition, increased diesel costs as a result of the Ukraine war are causing problems for the industry. It is also quickly forgotten that the demands and freights of customers are constantly increasing. Just one example of this is the coming generation of rotor blades for wind turbines, which at 85 meters is almost the length of a soccer field. It can currently be summed up that there is a crunch in every nook and cranny of the industry, so to speak. This is not only the case with us, but also with many colleagues. If you ask around in the market today, you will hear from very, very many colleagues &quot;I'm tired of it&quot;. And I think that's the most dangerous thing that can happen to our shippers and politicians if this forwarding sector no longer has any motivation at certain points. You usually only notice when something is missing that you had before. I believe that logistics in Germany has done an excellent job in recent years and that is why people still believe that it will still work somewhere. But I think we're at a crossroads at the moment: I don't know how much longer it will work. We don't want to panic, we don't want to create any kind of stress now, but we need to get more understanding from all sides, otherwise one or the other entrepreneur will give up. Let's stay with the transport of wind turbines for a moment. The German Wind Energy Association has just calculated that around 35,000 turbines will be needed by 2030 as a result of climate change. However, with significantly more power than before. By the way, so far there are 28,000, but mostly much smaller systems. How the many transports are to be managed is the subject of political discussions. But simply impossible without the heavy transport industry. Because the significantly larger systems want and have to be transported. We must drive this energy transition forward. That's completely out of the question. What surprises me again and again, also in the public discussions: Nobody talks about the logistics behind it. So we hear a lot about "Is it allowed to build a wind turbine?", "How high can a turbine be", and so on and so on, but we don't talk about how the turbine gets there at all. And that's a huge topic. It's no use if the logistics do n't work backwards, regardless of whether it's due to the challenges of the approval process, the technology or the people . We must become independent. It cannot be that we remain so dependent. In many areas, this also means there is an urgent need to leave the classic transport route for heavy loads exclusively by road. It has long been a matter of course for Universal Transport to also use inland ports and the waterway network. The Paderborn-based company practices these inter-modular transports, for example, in close cooperation with its 100 percent subsidiary Zust und Bachmeier in the Nuremberg port, where there is a direct connection to the water, road and rail modes of transport. In general, this is an opportunity to compensate for the area of large and heavy goods transports via the German motorway network, which has meanwhile been heavily attacked by official restrictions . Accusations from the industry are mainly directed at the newly founded Autobahn-GmbH of the federal government. For decades there have been well-established administrative channels with the federal states. But now everything has become much more complicated and above all slower. And then, this eternal bureaucracy. If you consider that a permit that you have is not valid even if you suddenly has a lighter weight. Yes, that is one of the issues we have at the moment. That means I have a permit for 65 tons. But now I'm no longer 65 tons, but only 55 tons. And I can't leave at that moment. And that's enough if you explain it that way... Or a width; I'm suddenly thinner. Yes, but my permit is not valid at the moment. These are things where we say a theoretical approach that is not at all practical and completely illogical. Those are things that should be abolished. Here, too, I know that many discussions are already underway, but it has to happen quickly now. It is also becoming increasingly difficult to find professional drivers, although there has always been a great deal of fascination for heavy goods vehicles. Here it is above all spectacular freight that inspires. Just one example of many is the sensational transport of this 130-ton locomotive by Universal Transport for the American market. Adrian Barnert, himself a roofer with a truck driver's license, was given the accompaniment of this spectacular heavy transport as a gift from his parents . He was there all night and is definitely very impressed. I just got told a lot too. They do a lot of things. Not just with locomotives. There are also wind turbines, and there is also the planning, the logistics, for example, that one such wind turbine arm is transported and the next one is already being loaded and comes as soon as one is assembled, the next is already on site. It's all stuff like that, it's huge. But amazement alone doesn't get you a job. Wages have also risen in the large-capacity and heavy-duty transport sector. And payment is an important tool for retaining and motivating employees over the long term. In the end, many cost-increasing factors come together, which of course also have to be accepted and paid for by the customers. Overall, it is of course difficult to impose these high costs on our shippers and customers. We've had an unbelievable increase in diesel costs, we have higher wages. In 2023 the toll will be increased again. We are always with our customers and need more money. And of course we also know that we take the strain. And many customers, but that's our experience, of course also understand that we need this money. But, as I said, this is a very difficult subject. The biggest problem at the moment, however, is the misery in the parking lots for heavy goods vehicles. It is often not possible to drive to service areas in the early hours of the morning because designated parking spaces are blocked by other trucks. This situation leads to an extreme security risk for all escort vehicles that secure such a convoy.