ADHD is one of those really challenging we're going to talk about some specific There's a lot of opinions and particular topic. Here's my take on it Hyperactivity Disorder is a condition We're talking about kids today but there We'll handle that in another video. This brain doesn't appropriately regulate attention to things. So, if you can that do different things, do you know for controls eyesight, vision? Do you know? that it's probably up here by the eyes incorrect guess. The occipital lobe of the part that houses the visual cortex. your eyes goes through that part of your just off of the side. It's about the size Handles all your arms, legs movement. Big muscles, small muscles. The right side of your brain controls the left side of crazy how the brain is designed. But just different things. Now, picture probably up little Center that's in charge of paying be that part of the brain that's being of goes to sleep. And because historically for attention deficit medication. I know a lot of parents have want to put their kid on stimulants. bouncing off of the walls. Well, it makes that part of the brain that's not quite lazy then the kid doesn't have any way medication tends to wake up that part of understanding of it. And so that he can think stimulant medication works. In fact, kid who is not actually verifiably hyperactivity not decrease it. It's been the literature that having ADHD if it problems, relationship problems, academic trouble a lot. So, we can't just let it go. going to talk about the medication within my licensure, that's not my behavioral side. And honestly, even if we from a medical perspective, if we can focus better or pay attention better the problem. what can be done. I'm suggesting 4 little bit. Let's start with an good place, upset this isn't the time to do it. But you remember your job is to love them no even if, then you're in a good place to experiment, see what happens. they can handle. How can you tell if your like to use the 5k rule. It goes like (Or whatever the equivalent of $5,000 is to do, would he do it? If the answer is to do it. And then we're talking about Now, what if I offer my daughter $5,000 can't do that. That's outside of her ability not motivation, you got it? And if picture, do they have the ability to do How about getting their homework done? Yeah. They can handle that. So step number Step number 2. As a parent, you want to mean don't get all uptight about whether a little better if you hope that they counterintuitive, right? Well normally, we We hope that they do it, right? Because or whatever. No. I want you to hope that learn something. And they're going to possible. Do you remember all those let this go untreated? That's expensive. A happens earlier. So, we hope that they something thing this step does for you as a parent psychologically. Think about it. If you're that they do what you just asked them to remind them. Well, we call it reminding. Probably nagging or ragging on me, right? it, you're going to step back a little bit kids are thinking. Make a note of that they're going to blow it. And you're okay I'm not going to leave you hanging. It puts and this is powerful as a parent. Let's consequences and empathy do the teaching. little gut check here as a parent. Most have consequences. And so they go to the what those are? Rant, rave, and rescue out. Check here first to make sure that consequence. If you are really opposed to consequence then you will bail them out. that puts you in that powerful smiling or not do this. Either way, it's really nervous. Why? Because now they have to them already. Because they have a hard improve their focus because now we're to them. So, you let consequences happen anger. Anger usually indicates that go there. Empathy is where you with them. They don't want this don't want it. See, that shifts the shoulders. She is fully capable of gave her. Yeah. She can't. And you're okay let's go to step number 4. Step number again. of days. You give them the same task message to your child. It says to your experience. I know you can handle this. empowering? As opposed to bail on him out the message they get is, &quot;Oh, you obviously do it for you.&quot; Really? Do you want to sign be terribly exhausting. Let's empower our My hat goes off to you as a parent. Thank raising the kids in our world. We've got positive parenting playlist here on the out yet, please go to parentingpowerup.com where we have other amazing resources for you as a parent. If you're button. If you're on YouTube, there's a link into other applications. Please