The Parlor Room is an official School Online. They had a notion that Everyone has talents. Everyone has passions. And you, as a sure you understand and passions are because you those individual [MUSIC PLAYING] Welcome to The business concepts come to life. My name is Chris Linnane. I'm the Creative Director at Today's very special guest Professor Hill's course, is part of HBS CLIMB stands for the Credential and Management in Business. We talk about Linda's paradoxes of leadership it took to vaccine in record time. This is a great episode, Welcome to The Parlor Room. [MUSIC PLAYING] Thank you, Linda, for I'd like to start with your &quot;Leading in a Digital World.&quot; Can you tell us a little It's a pleasure to And I'm happy to talk So for the last been looking at exceptional Leaders who've able to innovate time and again. And we know that if you want you must be able to adapt the needs of your So the course really mean to be an effective have digital tools you to be able to the needs of your customer? And so we look at really The first is the role The second is the And the last is the So all of these roles are really make sure that you're creating the culture and capabilities or your organization So it's not so much about and follow the It's really about the kind of culture necessary for us to be that future together? So I'd like to transition &quot;Being the Boss.&quot; You have a section &quot;The Paradoxes of Management.&quot; I'd like to run through a I'll give you the and maybe you give us a Sure. So the first one is you other people do. What does that mean? I think I know what it more context if you could? The first paradox that, yes, you're the boss. Yes, you have formal authority. But guess what? If you rely on that as a who are working going to get their commitment. And today, you need You need them to So really it's not and using your formal authority. It's more about you move into a you're actually in a You're dependent on dependent on you to get their So you need to understand about working with And they're dependent sure you create the kind allow them to be successful. And you're dependent on them the conditions you're going So the second paradox, you must focus on the So one of the is how stars learn to lead. And as it turns out, have more trouble than people who are not stars. So what you often see is because they have so much they take up all the space, that They basically pull or push to stepping back and creating the team to be successful. They actually can abandon and simply push until finally they'll That's a tough thing is to figure out What's the first best from only I can do this right? I think the real thing about delegation is they their own judgment you trust with a particular Particularly when how do I know they're How do I know what's And I knew I can get it done And of course, I what keeps us from doing it. Plus, usually if you you enjoy doing But I do think it's about trust. And I think there are a The first dimension is And usually, not always, you may have more feel you are more competent on thinking you're Don't know, not can have more experienced The second dimension of So competence tells you they is. Character tells you they And when you're trying to figure you're trying to figure out in some ways. Are they competent? Do they want to do What's really going on here? And I think until you've your capacity to make really you learn how to do it. You learn what is that someone is competent, of someone's character. That they really have they're going to think about as they're working on this that you would have done. All right, our third point, a cohesive team without losing So this is a tricky one for very Of course, you want to make or your team, rather purpose and a sense and ideally, some notion of to interact with each other or opportunities together. So when you create that is what allows the sense of community or to a team. So you do want to need to understand like I'm a part of something At the same time, what we trying to build a team that is you also have to unleash So another book when we were writing was a book called And the leader that I I studied a whole bunch was the founder of Pixar. And my co-author was actually of Pixar. And one of the I was collecting the data-- I'm an organizational so I go on site to spend they had a notion that That's interesting. Everyone has talents. Everyone has passions. And you, as a sure you understand and passions are because you those individual So it's really about unleashing people's individual and passions. And on the other that they're useful So if we go back and they all relate to the fact trying to use yourself. So you need to be self-aware. You need to be able to think The role you have as work with other people And the other people aren't They're the people in They're maybe your suppliers, you're dependent on And the other piece of it-- is if you want to be able pieces of the you've got to get can leverage yourself to actually manage that [MUSIC PLAYING] What's a good example of a agent? I've been doing recently about leaders who've Because what we know is it's not enough to You also must be a game-changer. You must be able to identify not but what you could be how to deliver on that. So one of the leaders and I've been was the man who ended up for the COVID vaccine. And as you may know, of making the because those trials So Michael, when it was the biggest job in supply out there. And he couldn't offered the had been at a biotech company. So he was brought in to do of clinical supply. And when he got there, he by just how much scope going to have at had so many different drugs as compared to the biotech where So his first thing he had And he inherited a team. And many people sort of told were very digital necessarily. You know, you need to bring And he looked and met the No, I need this team. They know Pfizer. Many of them have been and I'm new to the to learn how this company works. So he kept that team. And frankly, all these is still with him except And you see many people who and they change out the team. And many of the people on and certainly had a lot at Pfizer in clinical supply. So he kept that team, He said, you know what? I need to make sure we have So he also added to the team high potentials. He asked the people on the team can we invite some of them So he brought in because he wanted to, again, and make sure that they always Then he also went to his and he said to his allow one of your to sit in on our meetings? Now, his peers were like, well, This is not how we do But sure, if the high they can attend your meetings. No one said no to Michael. So Michael ended up with this This core group had You know, he was Then these skip level were really in individual because depending on which part And then these people from Now his own team do we have all these We're getting to know going to air our dirty laundry All the things you could decided to do this. Well, it turns out that doing Also, it was a big team. It sort of ended up Kind of unruly to think made, et cetera. So years later when having to do the COVID one of the things about why they were were very agile because knew what they did everyone else in did because he had put and they had kind of Sure. So because there was that when they needed something, of his team members we need your group to do x, y, z they knew the people. There was already a relationship fundamentally fairly siloed. The second thing that happened been put on his faster because they had because they had So they had been exposed to Some of those people than they would and felt quite indebted to him. So when he would call and say, I uh-oh, I owe Michael. They told me this, is one of the reasons So because he had built those him understand the knew they needed to work in a was one of the things that me led to his being So this whole issue of is not just about your report to you, about managing those That context around that he really understood. Now most people don't as being about leadership. They think about it as Yeah. There are politics. But it is a leadership role. And it's critical and I know now if you want if you want to innovate, a lot [MUSIC PLAYING] Are you ready for OK. OK, here we go. Here's the first one. I'm supposed to Usually. But I have the red OK, so I have to be flexible? Yes. OK. You're being very I am. I'm trying. I'm doing my best. OK, what would you say is you have learned about So the greatest are always thinking preparing for the future as they And preparing for about creating a team actually can be agile, And so those are So they are leaders you want everyone to be a value creator to work on shoulds and coulds. It doesn't matter where they So they work very hard at that will allow that to happen. And that's hard to do. Second question, you would give for building with your boss? The first tip I would say They are deeply imperfect deeply imperfect. So that's the first thing, just like you are. And two, they're as dependent So recognize that and take the time to empathize But as one CEO said who came to But I think we Perfect. I love it. All right, third question, will be an important skill for So for my new book the working title I don't know what the title will to choose. This is where you don't Sure. The critical skill for And I have been trying to do One is a story about Nicole And she was asked to create Airlines to make sure that and data they needed to experience. And so she heads up and finds herself with TSA, with because Clear is one And I think Delta has actually And then all the of Delta to offer us really so that we won't have We just walk through I guess you can do this at the You just get out of your car. You come into the airport, You walk through the whole Wow. --with these new kind Now, they started first I don't know if you use Clear or But now they've gone to facial. And they had to do that because people didn't Sure. So we see people in she has a team of, I to really bring in digital experience. And that requires of these different categories So she's an example of what who are asked to come run these innovation labs, that their company and tools that really inside the organization. So she's sort of the bridger they're working with and the internal parts have to operate the to operate very efficiently So she's a bit of a Because, again, what we see have what they need inside. Raja, who works for the was asked to create Lab on the Metaverse. So she's been traveling. There are other pieces got to figure out how figure out who they who they should try to Dubai to work with their to deliver the part of what Sheikh Mohammed So we see many to do these roles where they and they're working with people they have to figure out how to to be a part of a new ecosystem us new experiences. So these bridgers, thought about it as such but they're so essential and will carry a lot Oh, for sure. They're very-- the two are two airlines. They were engineers at They came up with the They came up with it or A business. Oh, a real version? Yes, a real version OK. So they went and spoke to and everything and be another 40 years before we Oh my God. So they're teleporting So what they're doing, they And they have one up on the And they're working with really all around the to figure out how to all of our five senses so we can work in physically able to get to. And this is real business. Everyone wants to invest in. It's just growing like But the way to create that, the this capability, hundreds and technologists But what I really loved talking when they went to the and said they wanted to go and they thought ANA he said to them, you And they said, yeah, without can't do that for a while. But we're going to So they're at it. I have more OK. 40 years until the Yes. We talk about them Oh my gosh. We went to Japan and shot and they're working with. They're working with to get access to the So they worked with who were the best people the Haptic Can, which you sort not there, if you will. And it's been a blast. And their teleporting Well, they're working-- the ones it's relatively primitive developing the technology. Even if you think about the so to try to teleport even to some locations where is not easy and it can be get that all worked out. So there's a whole they're building out that you and I can rent one of robots. Like, you almost get to do what you want it to do. So people can use them There's one up in space. When COVID happened, used their robots, to visit with grandchildren. Again, this is still But these are the use Wow. So we're going to have Well, Linda, thanks so much. Thank you. We covered a lot of appreciate you And I'm looking Thank you. I'm looking forward to it too. [MUSIC PLAYING] If you'd like to learn more Online course, &quot;Leading please visit us at Remember to follow us on and TikTok. My name is Chris Linnane. Thank you for listening. If you're enjoying please share the show with rate, and review it wherever Thank you. [MUSIC PLAYING]