We think of the moon as orbiting the earth, itself orbits the sun. But this is NOT a spiral... there's an argument that the Sure, from the earth's perspective, the moon perspective (or from an observer far above so slowly and the earth and moon are so far actually makes any sort of a loop, and in fact, but always inwards towards the sun! 12-sided polygon with curved corners line. Though the moon's trajectory is so close Here's a simpler example of an orbit where a towards its sun - it looks like this the sun and just getting nudged in and out This type of curve, where a circle rotates is called an &quot;epitrochoid,&quot; though they're usually circle... but the curves are the same. It's a fun two circles rotate relative to each other, you get everything from spirals to wiggles to orbits relative to its planet, or the larger the more spirally the trajectory. The slower or the smaller its orbit, the more wobbly or table of these trajectories, loops are in in this region. Orbits that never curve outwards In our case, the sun is about 400 times farther around 13.5 times for each trip around the sun circle. Here's a zoomed-in view of what our moon scale (though the earth and moon are not to scale) orbiting the sun independently but side by side, In order to start having a wobble, the moon would at the same distance), or be twice as far from or the earth would need to be half as far from the start spiraling, the moon would need to orbit or be 30 times farther from the earth (and still orbital speed and distance can't be adjusted the longer it takes to complete an orbit. so the moon would would have to come closer to have a wobbly orbit - one that even There's a good reason the moon's orbit, while outwards away from the sun: due to the distances it turns out the sun pulls on the moon with almost Technically speaking, the moon is outside of the the earth and sun are equivalent. That means the and that's why the moon's trajectory never curves force that would pull it that way. The force on stronger or weaker over time depending on whether or pulling against the sun. According to the sun with perturbations from the earth. because the earth and moon are moving in a circle centrifugal effects. Those effects weaken the on the moon is stronger. Technically speaking, radius,&quot; the zone where for practical purposes the earth's gravitation dominates the the moon orbits the earth. the moon doesn't orbit the earth. The moon and of the earth-moon system - that center of mass the moon is orbiting the earth. But not by much! farther away, or in the same place but just of mass would be outside the earth, and the double planet rather than a planet and satellite! the shape of the moon's trajectory around the sun. satellite vs independently orbiting the sun futile endeavor. The moon is certainly on the evidence leaning on the side of &quot;satellite.&quot; moon and sun interact in a complex gravitational one hand, it looks like the earth and moon orbit and on the other, it looks like the earth pulling each other back and forth as they go. ...Oh, and I definitely wouldn't rely too think about orbits: trajectories can easily be that a point on earth's equator draws out but because of how fast the earth is moving don't trace out loops but, like the moon, Should we then say that each part of the earth It probably won't surprise you to hear that I course of making this video; I both love it AND That type of problem solving is exactly what you know the deal: they have thousands of interactive and AI. Each lesson is filled with hands-on effective than just watching videos. And Brilliant phone. To sign up for Brilliant (for free) and get go to Brilliant.org/MinutePhysics, scan the description. You'll also get 20% off an annual content. Again, that's Brilliant.org/MinutePhysics