Hey, everybody, Don Georgevich here with Job Today, I want to talk to you about what you is your first interview ever or whether this I want to walk you through a few things to So, if you're interested in knowing more about the Like button on this video. Subscribe to my channel and ring the bell. So, let's dive right in. First thing you should always bring that I I like to have water around because I get I'm in nervous situations like a job interview. Now, usually, they will offer you some water conference room with them during the interview. But sometimes, well, they forget or sometimes just don't think of it. And I like to have my own water around because throat gets dry. And even during these videos, my throat will sip of water that you can't see me doing. But in the interview, you're going to want Now, I recommend that you bring water. And this is not a commercial for {indistinct But I recommend water over coffee. Because I think when you're walking in there your coffee, it makes it look like you have And maybe you do. I mean, I like coffee, too, but I just don't sets the right tone. I think bringing in water is just fresher. It's more pure, it's more clean; it makes Just my opinion. But that's what I would do. Avoid the coffee; drink the coffee before Next thing to bring is a notepad; but don't And I get this; people ask me this all the They're like, Don, should I bring my notepad I'm like, No. I mean, this is not a meeting where you're on a keyboard. This is a conversation that you're having. This is a job interview. You're in there to show them what you can Sitting there and typing on your notebook to them. But you do want to have a notepad; a notepad And people ask me, like, What kind of notes notes for the sake of taking notes. What you want to do is write things down. I mean, as you're having a conversation with they're talking and while they're talking, want to interrupt them. So, you write that down, so you can circle That's the whole point of bringing the notepad, about the project that you're going to be with. Or maybe they talk about salary and benefits. You can write some of those things down and ones that you want to circle back around later. That's the whole point of bringing a notepad Now, another thing with the notepad. When I go into an interview, I'll have my In addition to having room to write some things to ask them. So, I'll have certain questions about the whatever it is. It doesn't really matter. It's what's important to you. And it's you're writing down questions for And these will just be your little notes to going through the interview. Now, another thing that I like to make sure for the interview. Because at the end of the interview, they're do you have any questions for us? Well, notepad and I'm going to say, Well, I do And here are my questions. wants to know what questions should I be asking Ask them questions that help you decide if I mean, that's a completely different video. And I have another video on that topic. But just very quickly, ask them questions this is a job that you even want to take or Simple enough? Alright, let's move on. Next thing you want to bring to your interview; Because you might be sitting in a room with them have your resum. And so, the first thing they're going to say You'd be like, Oh, yeah. Here you go. look unprepared. And you don't want to look unprepared in a Another reason for having extra resum is copy that they have, that they downloaded changed on it and it's different now. So, a common question an interviewer is going an updated copy of your resum? copy. And don't worry about if you made some changes And a lot of people ask me, like, Well, in my resum. Should I let them have the old copy? Should have let them have the new copy? freshest, best, latest copy of your resum Alright, let's move on. Next one here; portfolio. Should you bring in a portfolio of your work? That depends. It depends on what kind of work that you do. I mean, let's say you're a photographer and position where you're shooting magazine ads Yeah, I would say having a portfolio of a be beneficial in the interview. Now, when I get in there, I'm not just going Here's my artwork. I'm going to wait and they might ask me about the type of work that And then they might say, Hey, Don, do you say, Yes, I do. Let me pull them out for you. I want to make sure you have multiple copies. So, pass them around so people can take a So, that's a good example of bringing in a Now, for example, my background is actually So, it's working on servers and networking So, I don't really have a portfolio of my intellectual work. So, there's nothing tangible there that I I have to convey that through my message when I'm talking about. So, I don't really have anything visual. So, in my case, portfolio doesn't really buy Now, maybe let's say you are a financial adviser Maybe you want to bring in a portfolio of that you've done, or some graphs where you've I don't know. So, it really depends; if you have a way to bring in a portfolio and show them. If you don't, dont worry about it, because Can you show us portfolio work? All Next one here; presentation. A lot of times people will have an idea of And they're like, Hey, Don, can I bring I'm like, Probably not. Usually not. and saying, Hey, I've got this great PowerPoint just doesn't really go over well. You're not there to give them a boardroom-style of bullet points on a whiteboard or screen That's just not point. Now, on the other hand, I've heard before candidate come in and make a presentation. Now, the point of the presentation is to evaluate That's another story. If they ask you to come in with the presentation, you do it that way. Now, another option. Let's say this is your second or third interview employer is looking for. So, you've got some great ideas about this. So, maybe you craft up your own PowerPoint A to point B to point C or how it solves the So, then when you go back for your third interview and say, I've got a really good idea for you've had in your manufacturing processes. Do you mind if I take a few minutes and show please. Please show us that. if I step up to the whiteboard there or do this? Theyll be like, Yeah, go ahead. want to show a presenter. Don't just say, Hey, I've got this presentation. I want to show it to you. up to it; you build up to it and say, Hey, your problems. Do you mind if I share it with you? Theyll Alright? So, good? Let's move on. Another thing you can bring to a job interview So, let's say that you have some certificates types of coursework or certification programs. I mean, let's say you have a SalesForce certification certificate or maybe, like in the tech world, certificate. A lot of people asking if it's okay to bring And I say, Yes, definitely bring them. I used to bring mine, but I'll be honest with certificate. So, I had them just in case they challenged went through and that I graduated from. So, I had these certificates in my portfolio But I didn't throw them at them. I waited until they asked and they never asked. So, you can bring them and have them around of work and a certification program that you've Another thing you can bring is a copy of your Now, usually they're not going to ask for They might. But if they're getting close to making you the second or third round of interviews. And that's where you want to have a copy of Now, I don't suggest offering your references the interview. They're like, Well, here you go, Mr. Employer, Don't push your references on them. Make them come to you, make them ask. And when they ask, that shows that they are thinking about hiring you, that they might you an offer and they'll already have your give those people a call who can just say everything that you've ever done. Alright? Now, the last thing. You want to bring to your interview is your You want to be prepared for the type of questions They're usually going to ask you experience-related about a time when you did __________ and how And you don't want this to be the first time questions. This is how you prepare for your interview. You spent a lot of time before the interview they're going to ask you. Now, you can get a lot of ideas from the job Carefully just go through that job description idea of what you think they're looking for. And then think about the questions that they for. Now, to help you out with this, I've got a It's called The Complete Interview Answer This book has over about 130 different questions And they come in all kinds of different forms; I have them in PDF book and I also have them You can get this hard copy book from jobinterviewtools.com. I'll put a link for that below. But this book is going to teach you how to Why should I hire you? Why do you It's going to cover all those, in detail, It's going to help you get prepared for your Now, to go one step beyond this book, get camera) and get in front of it and practice And look at that camera like that it's the You can even print off a picture of a person, right by your camera. And look at that camera and answer questions And this is going to give you an opportunity the interview. So, it won't be like the first time. And then you go back and you watch that video And if you're kind of looking at the camera want to get that fixed before you go into So, you look polished, you look professional, interview ever. Alright, does that make sense? So, that's all I have for you today. Good luck on your first interview. And if there's anything else you need, head And I will see you the next video. Bye now.