Return to the countryside to start the dream That is decorating the house This house was built 20 years ago. No renovation yet This year we decided to renovate Because this was the popular style 20 years ago Now it looks too rustic. We decided to make a big change Become a modern style This house was taken by the two brothers after they got married. I caught it, there was only a staircase frame. Because I don't have money to renovate I borrowed money and only pressed one layer of the window So I moved into the rough house That was pretty good in that era. At that time, most of the post-80s married either without a house Either have a house and a bill Is this the big kang? Built by myself It is to heat the kang to keep warm in winter But I've never slept on a warm kang. Because they moved in right after the coal pole head was built. Too anti-humidity, burning will make it more anti-humidity Every time you burn the kang We're going to sleep on the sofa. We lived in this house for less than three years. Because I'm pregnant with my second child Family planning did not allow for a second child at the time We were forced to leave our homeland. I went to Baoding with no relatives and 200 yuan. This time it has been more than ten years. I'll tell you about it later. How did we settle down in Baoding with only 200 yuan? Working hard till now I have two houses in Baoding Several companies A factory and hundreds of employees To the second floor The windows on the second floor are still two years old. Borrowed money again This is where Mr. Liu painted a rosy picture for me. This painting is 18 years old He likes this big balcony the most. As long as he has time Come up and imagine the future with me My dream and goal at that time was to renovate the house. Have a clean and comfortable home This is also the driving force of our struggle Mr. Liu is standing here to paint a rosy picture for me. Only the layout of the decoration is drawn The more I draw, the happier I am. The more I talk, the more excited I get. We are across from the middle school. Now, you're doing gymnastics, right? If my home was so far from the school, I won't drop out of school soon. The way to school is like a journey to learn Buddhist scriptures Ride a broken bicycle It snows in winter and is hot in summer Look what I found Our wedding photos are still here. This guy is doing the renovation. You thought I was relying on my peers to steal business? There are waves of people coming to see the decoration. We expect to move in by the end of the year. Tight time and heavy tasks This is the leather sofa we bought for our wedding I remember it was 1,800 per set. It's quite worth it. There is a small courtyard behind. Then I will build a koi pond, sun room, or something. It's also nice to have a beer barbecue in the summer There are also a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables It's so relaxing to look at the green land and blue sky. We will officially start work tomorrow Come back for dinner time The window has been removed more than halfway. Look at this guy, he's a professional. I really don't smash the glass. Remove the glass piece by piece Wipe twice Good windows are removed like this We expect to complete the demolition in two days. They took half of it down in less than two hours. Yesterday, Mr. Liu planned to hire two strong workers to Smashed all the glass Then I took down the windows and sold them. Cracking glass and smashing instruments I always feel uncomfortable Not safe either The more I think about it, the worse it tastes. It's 11 o'clock at night I searched online and found out there are professionals who can remove windows. I found a job and can start working today. Free demolition square meters Recycle these windows It seems to be 41 square meters My only request is no breaking of glass No matter how much money you pay, we'll make the deal Not bad. Sold for 3,800 yuan. Mr. Liu is here Recalling the scene of painting a pie for me here 18 years ago This is your favorite big glass Yeah, that's full of joy. Now it's hot Hey, look at this. Just when I was praising him, I opened my eyes and then I smashed him But the master was still cautious. Removing glass one by one Give you a thumbs up Why is there still the sound of breaking glass? It turns out that the boy is love What a mess of glass! It should be quite decompressing. Professional work is really neat. In the blink of an eye, they were all dismantled and left. Widen and heighten the door Professional work is really neat Several people have gathered The feeling of modern style came up all of a sudden This handsome master won't let me take a picture of him This is the first time I have seen the strongest I have to open my friends' eyes. Humans are really smart Who invented the tool? Give you a thumbs up This is my mother-in-law's room. Already gathered It will be made by then. Balcony with floor-to-ceiling glass Drinking tea while looking at the scenery on a rainy day Quite cozy Setting off blasting at the start of construction comes from traditional Chinese culture Considered a blessing The way of peace and hope Can convey information to the gods of heaven and earth Pray for their blessings and It used to be a garage. Now it's a bathroom Fill it up again so My mother-in-law and her family can go directly to the bathroom from their room. This prop starts to open the door This can increase the width and height Fortunately, I didn't have money to renovate 18 years ago. Now you can directly transform Otherwise, I must be too lazy to clean it up again. The speed of opening the door is really China speed What is he going to do? Push down? Don't even check if there's anyone behind you. Hey, I can't see anyone. See if anyone else is there? hurry up I see I see He said there was no one This is unplayable. I eat spicy noodles I'd better go and have a look. Hot and dirty Come here and stare Actually, there's nothing I can do. But I'm not at ease Safety first I'm just worried about life See this broken door? This is the garage. Inside is Mr. Liu's favorite billiard table. 18 years old antique Let's go, it's dangerous. Let's go. We started digging trenches in the afternoon. This is the approximate shape. Expand in front Indonesian throne shape Backyard Speed The tamping has already begun Mother-in-law in advance Put grains in the trough Good harvest and good luck It's said it will rain the day after tomorrow After the construction, be sure to fence the foundation before it rains. Pouring tomorrow's activities is a heavy task Today's task is to lay the foundation Rural people are more familiar with putting copper coins Before building a house, you need to lay the foundation first The house will be solid After the foundation is completed Put coins at the four corners of the house. It has a good effect of warding off evil and bringing prosperity to the house. Place coins at the four corners of the house Meaning of stability Money rolls in from all directions This approach It is passed down from generation to generation from our ancestors. People generally follow When the houses in the village were being demolished You can also find such copper coins Although there is no scientific basis for this But people follow this custom. It is also full of yearning for a better life in the future 18 years ago Mr. Liu gave me a picture of a house renovation Just like this, we can realize it step by step So there is nothing wrong with drawing big pictures This is also a vision for the future It also increases the faith of both spouses. Working together towards our goal Our nickname is Red Flag Flying Of course Today's task is pouring The post-80s generation who worked in the fields returned to the countryside to renovate the buildings built 20 years ago This is the fifth day of work. In order to move in by the end of the year All work is progressing very quickly The septic tank was installed yesterday. Bought ready-made 2,100 special speed On the phone at noon Delivered in the afternoon It'll be ready in half an hour. Today's task is to pour and measure The pump truck and cement truck have arrived here. Also started tying the pillars The old uncle was afraid of getting the size wrong. I measured again and again with a ruler I looked at the drawings again and again. It's time to test the pump truck technology Because they are all high voltage lines Always looking for angles The wisdom of mankind plus the power of unity Blink Time All pillars erected The pump truck angle is also good. Every step is carried out in an orderly manner Everything is ready Started to push the gate to release cement The main feature of this reinforced concrete pouring is a strong There is no other problem except the high cost Because harvesting food cannot stop Cement cannot be filled in the truck for more than 4 hours After stealing, pouring must be completed It was dark when pouring the front The calculation by the old uncle is an accurate Not much on either side To include the rear of the pump All I have to do is ride my bike to the bar We should save money The mission of the flower windmill is completed Good things are worth a thousand bucks The neighbor drove his forklift over after hearing a word. Plus the atmosphere After the repair, I saved more than 300 Today's mission successfully completed Finally returned to the countryside to renovate the building 20 years ago Because it's too old-fashioned. Let's make a big transformation Become a modern style This is the bottom beam that I worked on overtime last night. Nostalgia for childhood life Especially if you have a yard you like. Sitting in the yard makes people feel particularly palpitating It feels like going back to childhood. Old craftsmen often use the simplest tools Eyes are the ruler Just a shovel will do the job. Oh, just let it go like this You can make the wall horizontal and vertical Just like playing Tetris when I was a kid. Looks very relaxing This house was built two years before we got married. It has been 20 years now After they got married, the two brothers drew lots to divide the family property and we got it. There was no money for renovation. I lived in this rough house for three years. Later I went to Baoding This year we decided to come back and realize our dream. Just renovate the house in my hometown Turning the vision into reality Because it was a house from 20 years ago A bit outdated. I decided to make a big change Become a modern style Today's task is to remove the roof This roof used to be Too thick and this one keeps the temperature well This is the cabinet and sofa I bought when I got married. The other big Grandpa went to burn firewood This is our marriage certificate. I bought a second-hand sewing machine. Today's task is to build a wall. At this rate, we estimate that we will be able to move in by the end of the year I am also a rural person with a courtyard Finally, the dream I had 18 years ago has become a reality. For those born in the 1980s A rural house is more than just a building It carries deep emotional memories A place for families to gather and bond It is the spiritual home It is the root Even if the outside world is brilliant Rural home It is still their spiritual sustenance and final destination. This emotion makes no matter how old you are The idea of keeping a house in the countryside All seem particularly urgent and important This is especially true for the two of us. This is the designed entrance. The master who built the wall said This is the first time to build such a gate I spent 20,000 yuan designing this. This is the main entrance. Go further in This is the door There is a hidden wall after entering Go around the hidden wall and you will find the courtyard. Although the yard is not big I like all There will be a sun room This year we finally decided to renovate And a big transformation Become a modern style Today's task is a paper box Because the style 20 years ago was too outdated We decided to make a big change Become a modern style This house was built by my parents-in-law 20 years ago. After we got married The two brothers caught the old family and divided it into us We didn't have money to renovate it, so it has been shelved until now. After 20 years, we finally decided to renovate our house. Look at the blue sky and white clouds Baoding painting looks good I used to think that rural life was boring. Work at sunrise and rest at sunset Now it has become the life we most yearn for Here we can find a sense of belonging Peace of mind and body It takes a lot of effort to build the gate This is the first time the masters have built such a gate. Also according to the drawings I changed it several times because I saw several details were wrong. The yard is not only quite complicated Just the carved assistant door set costs more than 50,000 Plus the master's wages and materials Just this gate costs at least 70,000 When it's done, let's see if it's worth it. ha ha ha Many people are saying Why not tear it down and rebuild it? Such a major renovation is time-consuming, labor-intensive and costly. It also costs a lot of money This whole transformation In fact, it costs almost as much as tearing it down and rebuilding it There is a very important reason I just took into consideration the feelings of my parents-in-law. After all, they spent half their lives building this I always heard my mother-in-law talk about how hard it is for them to make money. There are also twists and turns in building a house This house was built over several years. Because they had no money, they stopped construction after building one layer. My parents-in-law spent several more years earning money to build the second floor. The longing of the parents-in-law This house must be beautifully decorated. Living in the house I built with my own children and grandchildren Talk about their sense of achievement and pride Later we got married and separated Got mine We didn't decorate. I've left this house there for 20 years and I haven't lived in it yet. It has not yet produced its value If we really tear it down and rebuild it now The first half of my parents-in-law's life is like a white tube I can totally understand how they feel. So we didn't mention it. Lived in a rough house for 3 years When we had our second child, we went to Baoding. Because family planning does not allow second births It can be considered as going out to avoid having a second child. It's been more than ten years. There are also two houses in Baoding I always feel like I can't live in my hometown It has never been renovated. The kids are grown up now. It is also convenient to go home during the New Year holidays This year I decided to renovate. And a big transformation Become a modern style It can be regarded as the fulfillment of the decoration dream of that year. Mr. Liu's big dream came true There is an open door on the outside This is the main door. Leave a hidden wall Go around the shadow wall and you will find the yard. Although the yard is not big I like all There will be a sun room Koi pond landscape area, etc. This is the backyard entrance door Widened and heightened This is the stairwell. Corridor area The living room is right inside. The changed shape has to fit in I can pay the ocean tomorrow. This is estimated to be liveable by the end of the year Entered this room It has not been renovated for 20 years. It's a rough house. This is the first dream we had after we got married. North Sun Room Fishpond put down Over How about a room now? Today's mission is the frog and fish pond Although the courtyard is not big I like all There is a sun room and flower pond that I like. There is a koi pond that Lao Liu likes Various large fish tanks in the company and at home Various ornamental fish Not enough to watch He said the end of fish farming is koi Anyway, we don't care, don't ask, and don't deal with it. So no objection Drinking tea in the sun room Watching the rain and watching the fish Admiring the flowers The tradition passed down by the older generation in rural areas As long as it is piling and foundation These 5 kinds of food should be put in The yard is not big It's not a small project The southernmost part is a sun room Place a water tank under the sun room In the middle is the koi pond The northernmost part is a landscape pool The food boxes at the gate were also opened. The effect of the shape came out immediately ha ha Ha ha ha Hahaha I've been waiting for this for 18 years. Finally turned the dream into reality This looks like 20 years old. No value created But for us, Just be bold and do it If it succeeds, we will renovate our old home.