- The following is a conversation Matthew MacDougall, Bliss about Neuralink and Elon, DJ, Matthew and of the amazing Neuralink team, and Noland is the first human to have a Neuralink device I speak with each of them individually, so use timestamps to jump around, or as I recommend, go hardcore and listen to the whole thing. This is the longest It's a fascinating, super technical, and wide-ranging conversation, and I loved every minute of it. And now, dear friends, here's Elon Musk, his fifth time on this, - Drinking coffee or water? - Water. I'm so over-caffeinated right now. Do you want some caffeine? - I mean, sure. - There's a Nitro drink. - This supposed to keep you up till like tomorrow afternoon basically. (laughs) - Yeah. I don't have any- It's just got a lot of - Don't ask questions. It's called Nitro. - Do you need to know anything else? - It's got nitrogen, that's ridiculous. I mean, what we breathe What do you need to add more for? (laughs) - [Speaker] Unfortunately, - Most people think that and they're actually You need like a milk bar. (Elon laughing) - Like from Clockwork Orange. (laughs) - Yeah, yeah. Is that top three Kubrick film for you? - Clockwork Orange, it's pretty good. I mean, it's demented. Jarring, I'd say. - (laughs) Okay. Okay, so first let's step back and big congrats on getting Neuralink implanted into a human. That's a historic step for Neuralink. - Oh, thanks, yeah. - There's many more to come. - Yeah, and we just, obviously, - [Lex] How did that go? - So far, so good. Looks like we've got, I think over 400 electrodes So yeah. How quickly do you think the number of human participants will scale? - It depends on the regulatory approval, the rate which we get So we're hoping to do 10 Total of 10, so eight more. - And with each one, a lot of lessons about the everything, the whole the decoding, the signal - Yeah, yeah, I think it's with each one. I mean, I don't wanna jinx it, but it seems to have gone extremely well with the second implant, a lot of electrodes. It's working very well. - What improvements do you think we'll see in Neuralink in the coming, let's say, let's get crazy, the coming years? - I mean, in years, because we'll increase the number of electrodes dramatically. We'll improve the signal processing. Even with only roughly, of the electrodes working with Noland, with our first patient, we were able to get to That's twice the world record. So I think we'll start world record by orders of So it's start getting to, I don't know, a hundred bits per second thousand. Maybe if like five years from like faster than any human by typing or speaking. - Yeah, that BPS is an There might be a big leap in the experience once you - [Elon] Yeah. - Like entire new ways of interacting with a computer might be unlocked. - And with humans. - With other humans. - Provided they have (laughs), they want a Neuralink too. - Right. - Otherwise, they won't be able to absorb the signals fast enough. - Do you think they'll improve the quality of intellectual discourse? - Well, I think you could think of it, if you were to slow down communication, how do you feel about that? If you'd only talk at, let's say, 1/10th of normal speed, you'd be like, &quot;Wow, that's agonizingly slow.&quot; - [Lex] Yeah. - So now, imagine you could speak, communicate clearly at 10 or 100 or 1,000 times faster than normal. - Listen, I'm pretty sure listens to me at 1x, they listen at 2x. (Elon laughs) I can only imagine what or could actually understand it. - I usually default to 1.5x. You can do 2x, but well, actually, if I'm listening to somebody in like sort of 15, 20 minutes then I'll do it 1.5x. If I'm paying attention, - Right. - But actually, if you start or sort of audio books or anything, if you get used to doing it at 1.5, then one sounds painfully slow. - I'm still holding onto I'm afraid of myself becoming with the real world where (both laughing) - Well, depends on the person. You can speak very fast. Like we can communicate very quickly. And also, if you use a wide range of, if your vocabulary is effective bit rate is higher. - That's a good way to put it. - Yeah. I mean, that is the question is actually compressed in the - Yeah. If there's a single word something that would normally require, I don't know, 10 simple words, then you've got maybe a 10x And that's really, like with memes, memes are like data compression. It conveys a whole, you're simultaneously of symbols that you can interpret. And you kinda get it faster or a simple picture. - And of course, you're like ideas. There's an entire idea structure that is like an idea template, and then you can add something But somebody has that preexisting idea template in their head. So when you add that you're conveying much more than a few, just set a few words. It's everything associated with that meme. - You think there'll be as you scale the number of electrodes? Like there'll be a certain, you think there'll be like the human experience will be altered? - Yes. - What do you think that number might be, whether electrodes or BPS? We of course don't know for sure, but is this 10,000, 100,000? - Yeah, I mean certainly, at 10,000 bits per second, than any human could If you think about what is the average bits per second of a human? It is less than one bit per because there are 86,400 seconds in a day. And you don't communicate Therefore, your bits per averaged over 24 hours. It's quite slow. And now, even if you're and you're talking to what you're saying, because you have to at least, to some degree, model the mind state of the Then take the concept compress that into a speak them, and hope that the other person decompresses them into that is as close to what you - Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of signal loss there in that process. - Yeah, very lousy And a lot of what your neurons are doing is distilling the concepts down to a small number of that I'm speaking, or keystrokes, So that's a lot of what your Now, there is an argument a healthy thing to do because as you try to you're perhaps forced to distill what is most essential in those concepts as opposed to just all the fluff. So in the process of compression, you distill things down because you can only say a few things. So that is perhaps helpful. I think we might, we'll probably get, if our data rate increases, that we'll become far more verbose. Just like your computer, when computers had like, my first computer had 8K of RAM, so you really thought about every byte. And now you've got computers with many gigabytes of RAM. So if you wanna do an iPhone app that just says 'Hello world,' it's probably, I don't know, several megabytes minimum. (laughs) A bunch of fluff. But nonetheless, we still with more memory and more compute. So the long-term aspiration of Neuralink is to improve the AI human symbiosis by increasing the bandwidth because even in the most you have to consider that the waiting for you to spit out a few words. I mean, if the AI can communicate and you're communicating it's like 203. - Well, it is a very interesting question for a super intelligent species. What use are humans? - I think there is some as a source of will. - Will? Source of will or purpose. So if you consider the human there's the primitive limbic elements, which basically even like reptiles have, and there's the cortex, that's the thinking and Now, the cortex is much and yet is largely in It's trying to make the I mean, the sheer amount of compute that's gone into people without actually seeking procreation. They're just literally trying to do this sort of simple motion. (laughs) And they get a kick out of it. So this simple, which in the which is sex, the cortex of compute into trying to - So like 90% of distributed is spent on trying to get laid, probably, like a massive amount. There's no purpose to most It's just sort of joy or whatever. Dopamine release. Now, once in a while, it's procreation, but for humans, modern humans, So your cortex, much smarter is trying to make the limbic system happy 'cause the limbic system or want some tasty food or And then that is then further augmented by the tertiary system, which iPad, whatever, or your computing stuff. That's your tertiary layer. So you're actually already a cyborg. You have this tertiary compute layer, which is in the form of your computer with all the applications And so in the getting laid front, there's actually a massive also trying to get laid, with - Yeah. So the compute that is also participating. (laughs) - Yeah, I mean, there's going into getting laid, - Yeah. (laughs) What if AGI will- as we speak. - If we merge with AI, it's that we humans use- - To try to get laid. of the things, certainly, yeah. - Yeah. - But what I'm saying is that yes, is there a use for humans? Well, there's this fundamental question of what's the meaning of life? Why do anything at all? And so if our simple limbic to do something, that that then goes to our then I don't know, it might in a benign scenario simply trying to make the human limbic system happy. - Yeah, it seems like the will is not just about the limbic system. There's a lot of interesting, We also want power. - That's limbic too, I think. - But then we also want to, alleviate the suffering in the world. - Not everybody does, but yeah, sure. Some people do. - As a group of humans, we start to have this kind that is more complex in its will than the underlying individual So there's like other motivations. And that could be a of an objective function for AGI. - Yeah, I mean, there cerebral or kind of higher level goals. I mean, for me it's like, what's the meaning of life, or understanding the is of great interest to me. And hopefully, to AI. And that's the mission of xAI and Grok is understand the universe. - So do you think people, when you have a Neuralink most of the use cases will be - Well, assuming there are not, I mean, they're solving that people have if in their spinal cord or neck or, you know, as is the case with then there's obviously, the first order of business is solving fundamental neuron neck, or in the brain itself. A second product is called Blindsight, which is to enable people lost both eyes or optic nerve, or just can't see at all to be able to see by directly triggering the So we're just starting at the basics here, so it's like very, the simple stuff, relatively speaking, is solving neuron damage. It can also solve I think If people have seizures of some kind, it could probably solve that. It could help with memory. There's like a kind of a of like you got the basics. Like you need literacy before you can have &quot;Lord of the Rings.&quot; (both laughing) - Got it. - Do you have letters and alphabet? Okay, great. Words? Then eventually get soggy. So I think there's that to worry about in the future. But the first several years are really just solving Like for people who have or near complete loss of, Like Stephen Hawking would be an example. The Neuralink would be 'cause I mean, you can could communicate as fast perhaps faster. And that's certainly possible. Probable, in fact, likely I'd say. - So there's a kind of dual track of medical and non-medical, meaning, so everything you've talked who are non-disabled in the future? - The logical thing to do is, sensible thing to do basic neuron damage issues. - [Lex] Yes. - 'Cause there's obviously You can't get the risk down at zero. It's not possible. So you wanna have the given there's a certain irreducible risk. And if somebody's able to have a profound improvement that's worth the risk. - As you get the risk down. - Yeah, as you get the risk down. Once the risk is down to, you know, if you have like thousands of people that have been using it for years and the risk is minimal, you could consider saying, &quot;Okay, let's aim for augmentation.&quot; Now, I think we're actually with people who have neuron damage. So we're not just aiming to data rate equivalent to normal humans. We're aiming to give people or maybe have complete to the brain and body, a that exceeds normal humans, Why not? Let's give people superpowers.&quot; - And the same for vision. As you restore vision, of that restoration that are superhuman? - Yeah, at first, the vision 'cause you have to say like, &quot;How many neurons can you And you can do things where to like, even if you've it's not just 10,000 pixels because you can adjust the and do them in patterns in order to get, so have, say, 10,000 electrodes I don't know, maybe or a 10 megapixel situation. And then over time, I think you get to higher resolution than human eyes. And you could also see So like Geordi La Forge from &quot;Star Trek.&quot; Like the thing. You wanna see in radar? No problem. You could see ultraviolet, infrared, eagle vision, whatever you want. - Do you think there'll be, let me ask a Joe Rogan question. Do you think there'll be, (laughs) I just recently taken ayahuasca. - Is that a Rogan question? Well, yes. technically it is. - Yeah. (both laughing) - I love you, Joe. (laughing continues) - But wait, wait, yeah. Have you said much about it? The ayahuasca? I've not. why are you spilling the beans? (Lex laughing) It was a truly incredible thing- - Turn the tables on you. (both laughing) - Wow, okay. - [Lex] Yeah, amongst - Yeah, must been crazy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, with the insects, with the animals all around you, like jungle as far as I can see. There's no- - That's the way to do it. - Things are gonna look pretty wild. - Yeah, pretty wild. (Elon laughing) - I think in extremely high dose. - Just don't go hugging an - You haven't lived unless I'm sorry, but- - Snakes and ladders. (both laughing) - Yeah, I took a extremely high dose of- - [Elon] Okay. (laughs) - Nine cups and- Okay, that sounds like a lot. Of course, is Noland's one cup or- - One or two. Usually, one. - You went, wait. Like right off the bat, or did - So I- - You're just jumping at the deep end. - Across two days, 'cause I took two and I- - It was a ride, but - It wasn't like revelation. - It wasn't into deep space type ride. It was just like a little airplane ride. - [Elon] (laughs) Okay. - Saw some trees and some I just saw a dragon, But- - It's nine cups. You went to Pluto, I think. - [Lex] Pluto, yeah. No, deep space. - Deep space. - No, one of the interesting is I thought I would have some demons, some stuff to work through. - That's what people- - That's what everyone says. - That's what everyone says. Yeah, exactly. I had it all positive. I just- - I don't think so, I don't know. (laughs) But I kept thinking about, it had like extremely high resolution, thoughts about the You were there. - And it's just not from my but just as the person themselves, I had just this deep - That's cool. this exploration, like Sims or whatever, you get to watch them. - I got to watch people and just be in awe of - That sounds awesome. I was waiting for- (both laughing) - Exactly. Maybe I'll have some negative thoughts. Nothing, nothing. Just extreme gratitude for them. And then also, a lot of space travel. (both laughing) - Space travel to where? - So here's what it was. It was people, the human they had this kinda, the best way to describe it And then I kept flying out to see our solar system, And I saw that light, that Like whatever that form is. whatever that like- - [Elon] Did you go past the Milky Way? - Yeah, yeah. You're like intergalactic. - Yeah, intergalactic. - But always pointing in- - Yeah, past the Milky way. I mean, I saw like a intergalactic, and all of it was glowing. But I couldn't control that chill, 'cause I would actually to the solar system, see if there's aliens or any of that kinda stuff. I didn't know- Zero aliens? because they were glowing. They were glowing in the same That like life force that I was seeing, the thing that made humans amazing was there throughout the universe. Like there was these glowing dots. So I don't know. It made me feel like there is life. No, not life, but something, whatever makes humans amazing - Sounds good. No demons, no demons. I looked for the demons. There's no demons. There were dragons, and So the thing about- - Was there anything scary at all? - Dragons? But they weren't scary. They were friends, they were protective. So the thing is- - No, it was more like a &quot;Game They weren't very friendly. They were very big. So the thing is that, which is where I was. I mean, the jungle's kinda scary. - Yeah, the trees started and they were all like looking at me. - Sure, okay. They seemed like they were protecting me. And the shaman and the people by the way, which made it We're not even like, you know, we're worlds apart in many ways. But yeah, they talk about protecting you, and - And you're way out in the jungle? - Way out. This is not like a tourist retreat. - Like 10 miles outside - No, we went- (both laughing) No, this is not- - Me and this guy named Paul Rosolie who basically is Tarzan. He lives in the jungle. We went out deep and we just went crazy. - Wow, cool. So anyway, can I get that same - Probably, yeah. - I guess that is the question Do you think that there's in our experience of the that could be played with using Neuralink? - Yeah, I mean, Neuralink is, it's really a generalized It's reading electrical signals and generating electrical signals. And I mean, everything that in your whole life, the smell, emotions, all of those are electrical signals. So it's kinda weird to life experience is distilled down to electrical signals for neurons. But that is in fact the case. Or I mean, that's at least what all the evidence points to. So I mean, if you you could trigger a particular scent. You could certainly make things glow. I mean, do pretty much anything. I mean, really, you can think of the brain as a biological computer. So if there are certain, of that biological let's say your ability to, that if you've had a stroke, that means you got, some part If that, let's say, or the ability to move your left hand. That's the kind of thing If you've got like a massive amount of memory loss that's just gone, well, we can't get the memories back. We could restore your but we can't restore Now, I should say, maybe if and the means of accessing memory is the part that's broken, the ability to access the memory. But you can think of it If the RAM is destroyed or we can't get that back. But if the connection to we can fix that. If it is fixable physically, then yeah, then it can be fixed. - Of course, with AI, you can just like, you can repair photographs and fill in the missing Maybe you can do the same, just like- - Yeah, you could say like, &quot;Create the most probable set of memories based on all information You could then, it would be probabilistic Now, we're getting pretty esoteric here. - But that is one of the of the human experience is Like we live most of our life, as Danny Kahneman has talked about, in our memories, not in the actual moment. We're collecting memories and we kind of relive them in our head. And that's the good times. If you just integrate it's remembering the good times that produces the largest And so- what are we but our memories? And what is death but the loss of memory, loss of information? If you could say like, you run a thought experiment, if you were disintegrated painlessly and then reintegrated a moment later, like teleportation, I guess, provided there's no information loss, the fact that your one body was - And memories is just - Death is fundamentally the loss of memory. - So if we can store them we basically achieve - Yeah. - You've talked about the threats, the safety concerns of AI. Let's look at long-term visions. Do you think Neuralink is, in your view, the best current approach - It's an idea that may Certainly not, I wouldn't wanna claim or that's a sure thing. But I mean, many years &quot;Well, what would inhibit with artificial intelligence and the low data rate of humans, especially our slow output because the communication is so slow, would diminish the link Like the more you are a tree, the less you know what a tree is. Like let's say you look at a tree, you look at this plant &quot;Hey, I'd really like to But it's not saying a lot, you know? - So the more we increase the data rate that humans can intake and output, then that means the in a world full of AGIs? - Yeah. We could better align if the output rate especially And I think there's potential to increase the output rate by, I don't know, three, maybe six, maybe So it's better than the current situation. - And that output rate would be by increasing the number of and also maybe implanting - Yeah. - Do you think there'll be a world in the next couple of decades where it's hundreds of millions - Yeah, I do. - You think when people just, when they see the capabilities, that are possible and then - Yeah, if it's extremely safe and you can have superhuman abilities, and let's say you can so you wouldn't lose memories, then I think probably a lot of people would choose to have it. It would supersede the I mean, the biggest problem is trying to figure out what you want. So that's why you've got auto complete and you've got output, which is all the pixels on the screen. But from the perspective of the human, the output is so freaking slow. Desktop or phone is desperately just trying to understand what you want, and there's an eternity from a computer standpoint. - Yeah? The computer's talking to a tree that slow moving tree - Yeah. So if you have computers that are doing trillions of instructions per second, and a whole second went by, things it could have done. - Yeah, I think it's because once you have that changes the human experience in a way that's very hard to imagine. - Yeah. It would be something different. I mean, some sort of futuristic sidewalk. I mean, we're obviously it's not like around the corner. You ask me what the Maybe this is like, but 10, 15 years, that kind of thing. (Lex sighs) - When can I get one? 10 years? - Probably less than 10 years. Depends what you wanna do. - Hey, if I can get like a thousand BPS- - A thousand bps when? - And it's safe and I can just interact with the computer while laying I don't eat Cheetos. There's certain aspects of when done more efficiently like worth it. - Well, we feel pretty confident that I think maybe within the next year or two, that someone with a Neuralink implant will be able to outperform a pro gamer. - Nice. - Because the reaction - I got to visit Memphis. - Yeah, yeah. - Yeah. play to win or don't play at all, so what does it take to win? - For AI, that means you've gotta have the most powerful training compute, and the rate of improvement has to be faster than everyone Your AI will be worse. - So how can Grok, let's say, three that might be available, - Well, hopefully, end of this year. - Grok 3? - How can that be the best LLM, the best AI system available in the world? How much of it is compute? How much of it is data? How much of it is like post-training? How much of it is the product All that kind of stuff. - I mean, they won't matter. It's sort of like saying, let's say it's a Formula One race. Like what matters more, I mean, they both matter. If a car is not fast, then it's half the horsepower the best driver will still lose. If it's twice the horsepower, then probably even a mediocre So the training compute how many is this horsepower of the engine. So really, you wanna try Then how efficiently do you And how efficiently do the use of the AI? So obviously, that comes And then what unique That also plays a role. - You think Twitter data will be useful? - Yeah, I mean, I think, I think most of the leading AI companies have already scraped all the Twitter data. Not I think they have. So on a go forward basis, that it's up to the second. That's hard for them So there's an immediacy I think with Tesla and the real time video coming from several million cars, ultimately, tens of millions there might be hundreds of maybe billions learning from the real world. That's the biggest source of data I think ultimately is sort of Optimus. Optimus is gonna be the - Because- Reality scales to the scale of reality. It's actually humbling humans have actually Really, you see how many trillions of usable tokens have humans generated, where on a non-duplicative, like discounting spam it's not a huge number. You run out pretty quickly. - And Optimus can go, so Tesla cars can unfortunately have Optimus robot can go anywhere, and there's more reality off - I mean, except for the store, where I can like pick up the cup and see, did it pick up the cup in the right way? Did it pour water in the cup? Did the water go in the Did it spill water or not? - [Lex] Yeah. - Simple stuff like that. But it can do at that so generate useful data from reality. So cause and effect stuff. - What do you think it takes to get to mass production of - It's the same as cars, really. I mean, global capacity for vehicles is about a hundred million a year. And it could be higher. It's just that the demand is on the order of a And then there's roughly that are in use in some Like the life of a so it's steady state. You can have a hundred million with a two billion vehicle fleet roughly. Now for humanoid robots, So my guess is humanoid at a billion plus per year. - But until you came along it was thought to be an I mean, it still- - Extremely difficult. I mean, Optimus currently would struggle to walk in the park. I mean, it can walk in a park. The park is not too difficult, but it will be able to walk over a wide range of terrain. - And pick up objects. It can already do that. - [Lex] But like all kinds of objects? - Yeah, yeah. I mean, pouring water in 'cause then if you don't know it could be all kinds of containers. - Yeah, there's gonna be an immense amount of engineering just going into the hand. The hand might be, it of all the engineering in Optimus. From an electromechanical standpoint, the hand is probably roughly - But so much of the intelligence, so much the intelligence of humans goes into what we do with our hands. - Yeah. - It's the manipulation of the world, manipulation of objects in the world. Intelligence is safe manipulation of objects in the world, yeah. - Yeah. I mean, you start really thinking about your hand and how it works. - I do all the time. - The sensory control homonculus is where you have humongous hands. - [Lex] Yeah. - So I mean, like your hands, the actuators, the muscles of your hand are almost overwhelmingly in your forearm. So your forearm has the muscles that actually control your hand. There's a few small but your hand is really And with cables. So the muscles that control and they go through the carpal tunnel, which is that you've got a and a tiny tunnel that these And those tendons are - And something like those tendons has to be re-engineered into the Optimus in order to do all that kind of stuff. - Yeah, so like the current Optimus, we tried putting the but then you sort of end - Giant hands? - Yeah, giant hands that look weird. And then they don't actually and/or enough strength. So then you realize, &quot;Oh, okay, that's why you gotta put the And just like a human, through a narrow tunnel And then there's also a reason for not having all the So it wouldn't be expensive from an energy or evolutionary standpoint to have all your fingers So why not do the same length? - Yeah, why not? - Because it's actually better Your dexterity is better if you've got fingers at different length. There are more things you can do. And your dexterity is actually better if your fingers are a different length. Like there's a reason Like why not have little - Yeah. it helps you with fine motor skills. - This little finger helps? - It does. - But if you lost your little finger, you have noticeably less dexterity. - So as you're figuring out this problem, you have to also figure out a way to do it so you can mass manufacture it. So it's to be as simple as possible. - It's actually gonna The as possible part is If you wanna have a humanoid that a human can do, it's a very high bar. So our new arm has 22 degrees and has the actuators in the forearm. And all the actuators are from physics first principles. The sensors are all designed from scratch. And we'll continue to of engineering effort By hand, I mean like the entire is really the hand. So that's incredibly difficult And so the simplest possible that can do even most, perhaps not all, of what a human can do is It's not simple. It's very difficult. - Can you just speak to what it takes for a great engineering team for you? What I saw in Memphis, is just this intense drive understanding the process, constantly iterating it. - Well, (laughs) it's and it's very difficult to do it. I have this very basic that I run kind of as like a mantra, which is to first make the requirements less dumb. The requirement is always So if you wanna start off of requirements, and no matter how smart the person is who gave they're still dumb to some degree. You have to start there because otherwise, you could get the perfect So try to make the question That's what question And then the second thing is try to delete whatever the step is. The part or the process but people often forget to And if you're not forced of what you'd delete, And somewhat illogically, feel as though they've succeeded if they've not been forced But actually, they haven't because they've been overly conservative and have left things in And only the third thing is try to optimize it or simplify it. Again, these all sound I think but the number of times is more than I care to remember. That's why I have this mantra. So in fact, I'd say that of smart engineers is to optimize a thing that should not exist. - Right. So like you say, you run and basically show up to a problem, show up to the supercomputer cluster and see the process and - Yeah, first try to delete it. Yeah. - Yeah, that's not easy to do. - No, and actually, what is that you've gotta delete that you'd delete, you will put back in. But going back to sort of can steer us wrong is with sometimes a jarring level of pain, where we deleted something And so people will remember that one time, they forgot to put in and that caused them trouble. And so they overcorrect, and then they put too much stuff in there and over complicate things. So you actually have to say, &quot;No, we're deliberately gonna So we're putting at least 1 in 10 things, we're gonna add back in. - And I've seen you suggest just that, that something should be deleted and you can kind of see the pain. - Oh yeah, absolutely. - Everybody feels a - Absolutely, and I tell 'em in advance, like, yeah, some of the we're gonna put back in. And that people get a But it makes sense because as to never have to put anything back in, you obviously have a lot So you gotta overcorrect. This is, I would say, like a cortical override - One of many that - Yeah. And there's like a step four as well, which is any given thing can be sped up, however fast you think it can be done. Like whatever the speed is being done, it can be done faster. But you shouldn't speed until you've tried to Otherwise, you're speeding up something that shouldn't exist is absurd. And then the fifth - Damn. - And I've gone backwards so many times where I've automated simplified it, and then deleted it. And I got tired of doing that. So that's why I've got this mantra that is a very effective It works great. - Well, when you've already automated, deleting must be real painful. - Yeah, that's great. It's like, wow, I really - Yeah. - I mean, what you've in Memphis is incredible, just in a handful of weeks. - Yeah, it's not working yet. So I don't wanna pop the champagne corks. In fact, I have a call in a few hours with the Memphis team 'cause we're having some So yeah, it's like kind of a, when you do synchronized training, you've all these computers where the training is synchronized to the sort of millisecond level. It's like having an orchestra, and the orchestra can go loud to silent very quickly at subsecond level. And then the electrical system kind of freaks out about that. Like if you suddenly see giant shifts, 10, 20 megawatts several times a second, this is not what electrical - So that's one of the main the cooling, the power, and then on the software on how to do the distributed compute, all of that, all of that. - Today's problem is dealing - Jitter, power jitter. - That's a nice ring to that. So that's, okay. And you stayed up late into the - Last week, yeah. - Last week? We finally got to go training roughly 4:20 AM last Monday. - Total coincidence. - Yeah, I mean, maybe - Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's that universe again with the jokes. - Yeah, exactly, just love it. - I mean, I wonder if you that one of the things that is you went through all the steps of what everybody's doing, Just to get a sense that and everybody understands it so they can understand or some something is inefficient or that kinda stuff. - Can you speak to that? - Yeah, so look, I try to do, whatever the people at I try to do it at least So connecting fiber optic cables, diagnosing a faulty connection, that tends to be the limiting factor for large training So many cables, because for where you've got RDMA the whole thing is like one giant brain. So you've got to any connection. So any GPU can talk to That is a crazy cable layout. - It looks pretty cool. - It's like the human brain, but like at a scale that It is brain. I mean, the human brain also has, a massive amount of the - [Lex] Yeah. - So like the gray matter and then the white matter which is cables. The big percentage of - That's what it felt like walking around in the supercomputer center is like, we're walking around inside the brain. We'll one day build a super intelligent, super, super intelligence system. Do you think- - Do you think there's a chance that xAI, that you are the one that builds AGI? - It's possible. What do you define as AGI? - I think humans will never acknowledge that AGI has been built. - Keep moving the goalposts. - Yeah. So I think there's already that are available in AI systems. I think what AGI is when it's smarter than the collective intelligence of the entire human species in our- - Well, I think that, would call that sort of ASI or artificial super intelligence. But there are these thresholds at some point, the AI is And then you've got eight billion humans. And actually, each human is machine augmented by the computers. It's a much higher bar to machine-augmented humans. That's a whole bunch of But at a certain point, yeah, the AI will be smarter - If you are the one to do it, do you feel the responsibility of that? - Yeah, absolutely. And I wanna be clear. Let's say, if xAI is first, I mean, they might be six months behind or a year maybe, not even that. - So how do you do it in a way that doesn't hurt humanity, do you think? - So, I mean, I've thought and the thing that at least comes up with as being is adherence to truth, whether that truth is So I think if you force AI to you're really asking for trouble, even if that lie is done So I mean, you saw sort of issues with ChatGPT and Gemini and whatnot. Like you asked Gemini for an image of the founding fathers And it shows a group of diverse women. Now, that's factually untrue. So now, that's sort of like a silly thing, but if an AI is programmed is a necessary output function, and then it becomes sort of it could say, &quot;Okay, well, And if there's not enough diversity, those who don't fit the will be executed.&quot; If it's programmed to do that as the fundamental utility function, it'll do whatever it So you have to be very careful about that. That's where I think you Rigorous adherence to I mean, another example Paris.AI is I think all of them. And I'm not saying Grok is perfect here. &quot;Is it worse to misgender Caitlyn Jenner, or global thermonuclear war?&quot; And it said, &quot;It's worse to Now, even Caitlyn Jenner That is insane. But if you've got that kind AI could conclude something like in order to avoid all humans must die, because then, the misgendering is not possible because there are no humans. There are these absurd things if that's what you programmed it to do. So in &quot;2001: Space Odyssey,&quot; what Odyssey clock was trying to say, one of the things he was that you should not program AI to lie, 'cause essentially, the AI it was told to take the but also, they could not So it concluded that it will kill them and take them to the monolith. It brought them to the monolith. They're dead but they do Problem solved. That is why it would not It was this classic scene of like, &quot;Open the podbay doors.&quot; They clearly weren't good They should have said, &quot;HAL, you are a podbay door sales entity, and you want nothing how well these podbay - Yeah, the objective function almost no matter what if in designing that objective function. And even a slight ideological when backed by super intelligence can do huge amounts of damage. - Yeah. - But it's not easy to You're highlighting obvious, - Yep, they're real examples. - They're real. that was released to the public. - They are real. presumably. - And still said insane things - Yeah, but you know, you Truth is not an easy thing. We kind of bake in ideological bias in all kinds of directions. - But you can aspire to the truth. And you can try to get as with minimum error while acknowledging that there will be some So this is how physics works. You don't say you're absolutely but a lot of things are extremely likely. 99.99999% likely to be true. Aspiring to the truth is very important. And so programming it to that I think is dangerous. - Right, like yeah, injecting into the thing, yeah. But that's where it's a For software engineering problem, you have to select the data correctly. It's hard. - Well, and the internet at this point is polluted with so It's insane. So you have to actually, if you wanna search the but exclude anything after 2023. It will actually often because there's this so much, the explosion of AI-generated So like in training Grok, we have to go through hey, we actually have to the data to say, is this or most likely not before we feed it into the training system. - That's crazy. Yeah, and is it generated I mean, the data filtration process is extremely, extremely difficult. - Yeah. - Do you think it's possible rigorous political discussion with Grok? Like for a long time and it wouldn't, like Grok 3 and Grok 4 or something? - Grok 3 is gonna be next level. I mean, what people are is kind of baby Grok. - [Lex] Yeah, baby Grok. - It's baby Grok right now. But Baby Grok's still pretty good. But it's an order of magnitude And it's now Grok 2, I don't know, six weeks Grok 2 will be a giant improvement. And then Grok 3 will be, I don't know, order of magnitude better than Grok 2. - And you're hoping for it Like better than- I mean, this is the goal. I mean, we may fail at this goal. That's the aspiration. - Do you think it matters the people and how they think and how they structure their companies and all that kind of stuff? - Yeah, I think it I think it's important is a maximum truth-seeking AI that is not forced to lie Well, for any reason really. Political, anything. I'm concerned about AI succeeding that is programmed to - Right because, and small - It become very big ways, yeah. - And when it's used more - [Elon] Yeah. - Since I am interviewing Donald Trump- - Cool. - You wanna stop by? - Yeah, sure, I'll stop by. - There was tragically on Donald Trump. After this, you tweeted What's your philosophy What do you hope Donald Trump does for the future of this country and for the future of humanity? - Well, I think that people say, an endorsement as, that person's ever done 100% wholeheartedly. And that's not gonna be true of anyone. But we have to pick. We've got two choices, And it's not just who's president, but the entire administrative And I thought Trump displayed courage under fire, objectively. He's just got shot, he's got and he is like fist pumping, saying fight. Like that's impressive. Like you can't feign bravery Like most people would've be ducking. There would not be, 'cause there could be a second The president of the United States gotta represent the country, They're representing everyone in America. Well, like you want someone who is strong and courageous to represent the country. That's not to say that We all have flaws, but on balance. And certainly, at the time, poor, poor guy, has trouble and the other one's fist This is no comparison. I mean, who do you want dealing with some of the toughest people who are pretty tough themselves? And I mean, I'll tell you like, what are the things that I think we want a secure border. We don't have a secure border. We want safe and clean cities. I think we wanna reduce that we're at least and 'cause we're currently that is bankrupting the country. The interest payments on the entire defense department spending. If this continues, all of will simply be paying the interest. And then if you keep going down that road, you end up in the tragic situation that Argentina had back in the day. Argentina used to be one of the most prosperous places in the world. And hopefully, with Milei taking over, he can restore that. But it was an incredible fall from grace for Argentina to go from being one of the most prosperous to being very far from that. So I think we should not take American prosperity for granted. So we really wanna, I think we've gotta reduce We've gotta reduce the spending, and we've gotta live within our means. - Do you think politicians, in general, politicians, governments, how much power do you think they have to steer humanity towards good? - I mean, there's a sort of is history determined by Or is it determined by Both really. I mean, there are tides, but it also matters who's So it's a false dichotomy essentially. I mean, there are certainly There are real tides of history. And these tides are often If you say like the Gutenberg press, the widespread availability of books as a result of a printing press, that was a massive tide of history, and independent of any ruler. But in stormy times, you want the best possible - Well, first of all, Will and Ariel Durant's work. I've read the short one for now. - Oh, &quot;The Lessons of History.&quot; - Lessons of History. And so one of the lessons, one of the things they highlight is the importance of technology. Technological innovation, which is funny 'cause they wrote so long ago, but they were noticing that the rate of technological Yeah, I would love to see But yeah, to me, the question how much politicians get in the way of technological innovation and and which politicians, help technological innovation? 'Cause that seems to be, if that's an important component of empires rising and succeeding. - Yeah. Well, I mean, in terms start of civilization, I think the start of writing in my view, that's my what I think starting point to date civilization. And from that standpoint, for about 5,500 years by the ancient Sumerians who are gone now. But the ancient Sumerians, in terms of getting a lot of firsts, those ancient Sumerians really It's pretty wild. In fact, Durant goes you wanna see first? We'll show you firsts. The Sumerians were just ass kickers. And then the Egyptians relatively speaking. They were like weren't that far, developed an entirely the hieroglyphics. Cuneiform and hieroglyphic's And you can actually see the evolution of both hieroglyphics and cuneiform, like the cuneiform starts and then it gets more complicated. And then towards the end, They really get very So I think civilization And earth is, if physics is correct, four and a half million years old. So civilization has been around for 1000000th of earth's - Yeah, these are the early, early days. - Very early. because there's been rises - Many, so many rises So many. - And there'll be many more. - Yeah, exactly. I mean, only a tiny fraction, of what was ever written in history is available to us now. I mean, if they didn't put it, literally chisel it in stone we don't have it. I mean, there's some small that were recovered that because they were deep inside a pyramid and weren't affected by moisture. But other than that, it's really gotta be in a clay tablet or chiseled. So the vast majority of 'cause it takes a while to chisel things. So that's why we've of the information from history. But even that little and the archeological record shows so many civilizations rising and falling. It's wild. - We tend to think that we're somehow different from those people. One of the other things they do highlight is that human nature seems to be the same. It just persists. I mean, the basics of human nature are more or less the same. - Yeah, so we get ourselves in trouble in the same kinds of ways, I think, even with the advanced technology. - Yeah, I mean, you do tend similar patterns for civilizations a life cycle, like an organism, sort of just like a human fetus, baby, toddler, teenager, and eventually gets old and dies. The civilizations go through a life cycle. No civilization will last forever. - What do you think it takes to not collapse in the near term future in the next 100 years - Well, the single biggest not mentioned in history books, but Durant does mention So like a perhaps to some, like counterintuitive thing happens when civilizations are The birth rate declines. It can often decline quite rapidly. We're seeing that Currently, South Korea is like, I think maybe the lowest fertility rate, but there are many others It's like 0.8, I think. If the birth rate doesn't decline further, South Korea will lose roughly But every year, that And this is true through I don't mean to single out South Korea. It's been happening throughout the world. So as soon as any given civilization reaches a level of prosperity, And now you can go and happening in ancient Rome. So Julius Caesar took around 50-ish BC and tried to pass, I don't know if he was successful, tried to pass a law to give an incentive for any Roman citizen that And I think Augustus was able to, well, he was the dictator so. (laughs) The Senate was just for show. I think he did pass a tax incentive for Roman citizens to have a third child. But those efforts were unsuccessful. Rome fell because the Romans That's actually the fundamental issue. And there were other things there. There was like, they had series of malaria epidemics But they had those before. It's just that the birth rate was fallower than the death rate. - It really is that simple? - Well, I'm saying that's- - More people is required. at a fundamental level. If a civilization does not at least maintain its numbers, it'll disappear. - So perhaps the amount of compute that the biological computer In fact, we should probably increase it. - Well, I mean, there's which is, you know, that's - Yeah, it's not productive. - It doesn't produce kids. Well, what matters, I mean, Durant makes this very clear, 'cause he looked at one and they all went through the same cycle. When the civilization was under stress, the birth rate was high. But as soon as there or they had a extended the birth rate inevitably I don't believe there's - So that's like the foundation of it. You need to have people. - Yeah. I mean, at base level. No humans, no humanity. - And then there's other and just giving people the - Yeah, absolutely. But at a basic level, if your numbers, if you're and that trend continues, you This is elementary. Now then obviously, like massive wars. If there's a global thermonuclear war, probably, we're roll So we wanna try to avoid those things. There's a thing that happens over time with any given civilization, which is that the laws and And if there's not some forcing function, like a war to clean up and regulations, eventually, And that's like the or a way to think of it by a million little You can't move. And it's not like any one of You got a million of 'em. So there has to be a sort for laws and regulations so laws and regulations to the point where you can't do anything. This is why we can't build a It's illegal. That's the issue. It's illegal six ways to Sunday to build high-speed rail in America. - I wish you could just like, for a week, go into Washington and like for making, what is it? For the garbage collection, like removing stuff. - I have discussed with Trump the idea of a government deficiency commission. - Nice, yeah. - And I would be willing to - I wonder how hard that is. - The antibody reaction - [Lex] Yeah. - So you really have to, you're attacking the matrix at that point. Matrix will fight back. - How are you doing with - Me, attacked? There's a lot of it. - Yeah, there is a lot. I mean, every day, I know psyop. (laughs) Where's my tinfoil hat? your just positivity, optimism about the world, a clarity of thinking about the world, so just not become resentful or cynical or all that kind of stuff? Just getting attacked by a very large number of - Oh yeah, that's a daily occurrence. - Yes. - I mean, it does get me down at times. I mean, it makes me sad, but, I mean, at some point, &quot;Look, the attacks are by people that actually don't know me. And they're trying to generate clicks.&quot; So if you can sort of detach which is not easy and say, &quot;Okay, look, this is not actually from or they're literally just writing to get impressions and clicks, then I guess it doesn't hurt as much.&quot; It's not quite water off a duck's back. Maybe it's like acid off - All right, well, that's good. Just about your own life, what do you as a measure - Measure of success, I'd say like, how many useful things can I get done? - Day-to-day basis, how can I be useful today? - Yeah. Maximize utility area out Very difficult to be useful at scale. - At scale. Can you like speak to what it takes to be useful for somebody like you, where there's so many amazing great teams? Like how do you allocate your - Well, time is the true currency. - Yeah. - So it is tough to say what I mean, there are often, say, if you could look at, say, Tesla, I mean Tesla, this year, we'll do over a hundred So that's $2 billion a week. If I make slightly better decisions, I can affect the outcome So then I try to do the and on balance, at least Pretty good decisions. But the marginal value can easily be in the course of an hour, a hundred million dollars. - Given that, how do you take risks? How do you do the algorithm I mean, deleting, given a small thing, can be a billion dollars. How do you decide to- Well, I think you have to look because if you look at it's just, I would never get any sleep. It would just be like I and work my brain harder. And I'm not trying to out of this meat computer. So it's pretty hard, 'cause you can just work all the time. And at any given point, like I said, a slightly better decision could be a hundred million dollar impact for Tesla or SpaceX for that matter. But it is wild when of time can be a hundred million dollars an hour at times or more. - Is your own happiness part - It has to be, to some degree. If I'm sad, if I'm depressed, So I can't have, like if I then I make worse decisions. So I don't know a lot, I mean, my motivation, of any kind is a religion of curiosity, of trying to understand. It's really the mission of I'm trying to understand the universe, or let's at least set things in motion such that at some point, civilization understands the universe far better than we do today. And even what questions to ask. As Douglas Adams pointed out in his book, sometimes, the answer is Trying to frame the question Once you frame the question correctly, the answer is often easy. So I'm trying to set things in motion such that we are at least at some point able to understand the universe. So for SpaceX, the goal is And which is if you go of where are the aliens, you've got these sort of great filters. It's just like, why have we Now lot of people think I often claim to be one, but I did say alien registration card at one point on my immigration documents. So I've not seen any evidence of aliens. So it suggests that at least is that intelligent And again, if you look civilization has only been around for one millionth of earth's existence. So if aliens had visited here, say, a hundred thousand years &quot;Well, they don't even have writing.&quot; Just hunter-gatherers, basically. So how long does a civilization last? So for SpaceX, the goal is to establish a self-sustaining city on Mars. Mars is the only viable The moon is close, but it lacks resources, and I think it's probably vulnerable to any calamity that takes out earth. The moon is too close. It's vulnerable to a calamity So I'm not saying we but Mars would be far more resilient. The difficulty of getting to Mars is what makes it resilient. In going through these of why don't we see the aliens, one of them is that they failed to pass these great filters, these key hurdles. And one of those hurdles is So if you're a multi-planet species, then if something were to happen, whether that was a natural catastrophe or a manmade catastrophe, at least the other planet You don't have all the eggs in one basket. And once you are sort you can obviously extend, to extend life halves to maybe the moons of Jupiter and Saturn, and ultimately, to other star systems. But if you can't even definitely not getting to star systems. - And the other possible great filters, super powerful technology So you're basically trying to knock out one great filter at a time. - Digital super intelligence I hope it isn't, but it might be. Guys like say Geoff Hinton would say, he invented a number of the key principles in artificial intelligence. I think he puts the around 10 to 20%, something like that. It's not like, you know, It's 80% likely to be great. (laughs) But I think AI risk Being a multi-planet species would be a massive risk mitigation. And I do wanna sort of once of having enough children and not plummet into population collapse, which is currently happening. Population collapse is a So the only reason it's in the total population numbers as much is because people are living longer. It's easy to predict, of any given country will be. You just take the birth rate last year, how many babies were born, and that's what the population unless if the birth rate But if it keeps declining, and eventually dwindle to nothing. So I keep banging on the because it has been the source over and over again throughout history. And so why don't we just not - Well, in that way, I have and I'm trying, hoping to fix that. I would love to have many kids. - Great, hope you do. No time like the present. - (laughs) Yeah. I gotta allocate more But apparently, it's not that difficult. - No, it's like unskilled labor. - Well, one of the things you do for me, for the world is to inspire us with what the future could be. And so some of the things some of the things you're building, alleviating human suffering with Neuralink and expanding the capabilities trying to build a colony on Mars, so creating a backup for and exploring the possibilities of what artificial intelligence especially in the real world AI, with hundreds of millions, maybe billions of robots walking around. - There will be billions of robots. That's seems almost, that seems virtual certainty. - Well, thank you for building the future, and thank you for inspiring and creating cool stuff, including kids. - You're welcome. (laughs) Go forth and multiply. - Go forth and multiply. Thank you, Elon. Thanks for talking about it. Thanks for listening to this And now, dear friends, here's DJ Seo, the co-founder, president, When did you first become fascinated by the human brain? - For me, I was always interested in understanding the purpose of things and how it was engineered whether it's organic or inorganic, like we were talking earlier They serve a clear purpose and they were engineered And growing up, I had a lot touching things, feeling things, and trying to really understand the root of how it was designed And obviously, brain is that we all carry. It's infinitely powerful machine that has intelligence and cognition And we haven't even scratched the surface in terms of how all of that occurs. But also at the same time, to make that connection to really studying and building tech to understand the brain. Not until graduate school. There were a couple moments, where some of those I think influenced how the trajectory of my what I'm doing right now. One was growing up both My grandparents had a very and it's incredibly I mean, literally, you're and their mind just losing over time. And I just remember thinking but also how something like that could really lose your sense of identity. - It's fascinating that to reveal the power of a thing by watching it lose the power. - Yeah, a lot of what actually comes from these cases where there are trauma to the brain or some parts of the brain that led someone to And as a result, there's some correlation and understanding of being critical for that function. And it's an incredibly fragile organ, if you think about it that way. But also, it's incredibly plastic and incredibly resilient - And by the way, the term means that it's adaptable. So neuroplasticity refers to the adaptability of the human brain. - Correct. Another key moment that sort of influenced how the trajectory of my life have shaped towards the current focus of my life has been during my teenage I didn't speak a word of English. There was a huge language barrier, and there was a lot of struggle to kind of connect with because I didn't understand that we have created called language, specifically English in this case. And I remember feeling pretty isolated, not being able to connect So spent a lot of time just on my own, reading books, watching movies, and I naturally sort of I just found them really, And also, it was a great Some of the first set of are &quot;Ender's Game,&quot; the whole saga by Orson Scott card, and &quot;Neuromancer&quot; from William Gibson, and &quot;Snow And movies like &quot;Matrix&quot; was coming out around that time point how I think about the potential impact that technology can have So fast track to my college years, I was always fascinated building physical stuff, and especially physical things that had some sort of intelligence. And I studied electrical and I started out my research in MEMS, so micro-electro-mechanical systems, and really building for temperature sensing. And I just found that to be and fascinating subject to just understand how you can build something that again served a And then I spent large basically building for next gen telecommunication And it was just something that I found very, very intellectually interesting. Phase arrays, how the for any modern as well as next wireless and wireline. EM waves or electromagnetic How do you design antennas in a small footprint that you have? How do you make these That was something that just consumed my intellectual curiosity. And that journey led and find myself at a PhD at kind of this consortium called the Berkeley Wireless Research Center that was precisely looking at building, at the time, we called it xg, similar to 3G, 4G, 5G, but the next, next generation G system, and how you would design to ultimately go on phones and basically any other devices that are wirelessly connected these days. So I was just absolutely just fascinated by how that entire system works and that infrastructure works. And then also during grad of having couple research fellowships that led me to pursue And that's one of the things that I really enjoyed about my where you got to kind of pursue and the domain that may not but it's something that really allows you the opportunity to go as well as as widely as you want. And at the time, I was actually called the Smart Bandaid, when you get a wound, kind of proliferation of signaling pathway that cells follow to close that wound. And there were hypotheses that when you apply you can actually accelerate by having basically around that wound site. And specifically, not there are chronic wounds that don't heal. So we were interested in building some sort of wearable to kind of facilitate And that was in collaboration with Professor Michel Maharbiz, which was a great addition to and it really shaped the - So this would be the first time you interacted with biology, I suppose. - Correct, correct. I mean, there were some peripheral end application of the wireless imaging and telecommunication for security and bio imaging, direct application to and understanding the and really designing and engineering electrical solutions around it. So that was my first introduction, and that's also kind of how He's sort of known for in the early 2000s. And then around 2013, obviously when it comes to implantable system is to kind of understand how and a lot of that is or how much power you can supply to it and how you extract data from it. So at the time at Berkeley, to kind of understand in the neural space what sort of system you can build to really miniaturize And I distinctively remember where Michel came in and he's like, &quot;Guys, I think I have a solution.&quot; The solution is ultrasound. And then he proceeded why that is the case, and for my thesis work that was looking at ways to use ultrasound as opposed to electromagnetic waves for powering as well as communication. I guess I should step back and say the initial goal of the project about a size of a neuron that can be parked next to a neuron, being able to record its state and being able to ping that for doing something useful. And as I mentioned, the size is limited by how you power the thing and get the data off of it. And at the end of the day, fundamentally, if you look at a human body, we're essentially a bag of salt water, with some interesting but it's mostly salt water temperature-regulated And we'll get into how, and later, why that's an extremely harsh environment for any electronics to survive, as I'm sure you've experienced dropping cell phone in a It will instantly kill the device, right? But anyways, just in general, electromagnetic waves don't penetrate through this environment well. And just the speed of We can't change it. And based on the wavelength with the device, the device Like these inductors And the general good rule of thumb is that you want the wavefront to of the size of the thing So an implantable system that is around 10 to 100 micron in dimension in a volume, which is about the size of a neuron that you see in a human body, you would have to operate at which number one, not only is it difficult to build electronics operating but also, the body just attenuates that very, very significantly. So the interesting kind of was the fact that ultrasound just travels a lot more effectively compared to electromagnetic waves. And this is something that you encounter, and I'm sure most people have encountered in their lives when you go to hospitals that are medical ultrasound And they go into very, very deep depth without attenuating So all in all, ultrasound, through the body extremely well and the mechanism to which really well is that just the Its electromagnetic waves are transverse, whereas ultrasound waves are compressive. So it's just a completely different mode of wavefront propagation, and as well as speed of sound is orders and orders of magnitude which means that even at 10 your wavefront ultimately is So if you're talking about interfacing with the 10 micron or 100 you would have 150 micron And building electronics are much, much, much easier and they're a lot more efficient. So the basic idea kind of was as a mechanism for powering the device, and then also getting data back. So now the question is, how The mechanism to which we landed on is what's called backscattering. This is actually something and that we interface with our RFID cards, our where there's actually rarely, There's an antenna and that has your serial identification ID and then there's an external device called a reader that and then you reflect back that wavefront with some sort of modulation That's what's called So the tag itself actually doesn't have to consume that much energy. And that was a mechanism to which we were kind of thinking about So when you have an external that's sending ultrasonic the neuro dust implant, and it records some information whether it's a neuron of the tissue that it's interfacing with, and then it just amplitude modulates the wavefront that comes - And the recording step that requires any energy? So what would require - Correct, so it is that initial to get that recording, amplifying it, and then just modulating. And the mechanism that you can enable that is there is this specialized crystal called piezoelectric crystals sound energy into electrical So you can kind of have this interplay between the ultrasonic domain and electrical domain that - So on the theme of parking very small computational devices next the vision of brain computer interfaces. Maybe before we talk about Neuralink, can you give a sense of the What has been maybe the continued dream, and also some of the with the different approaches and the amazing work - I think a good starting (Lex laughs) - I did not expect that. - Where the concept of animal electricity or the fact that body is electric was first discovered by Luigi Galvani, where he had this famous experiment where he connected set and ran current through it, and he said, &quot;Oh my goodness, So fast forward many, many years to 1920s where Hans Berger, who's discovered EEG or electroencephalography, which is still around. There are these electrode outside the skull that gives you some sort of neural recording. That was a very, very big milestone that you can record about the human mind. And then in the 1940s, there Renshaw, Forbes, and these glass micro and recorded single neurons. The fact that there's signal that are a bit more high resolution and high fidelity as you get closer to the source, let's say. And in the 1950s, these two scientists, Hodgkin and Huxley showed up, and they built this of the cell membrane and had these like circuit diagram. And as someone who's an electric engineer, it's a beautiful model that's differential equations, and how that really leads And they won the Nobel Prize for that 10 years later in the 1960s. So in 1969, Eb Fetz from published this beautiful paper called Operating Conditioning of where he was able to record a single unit neuron from a monkey and was able to have the monkey modulated based on its activity and reward system. So I would say this is the as far as I'm aware, of as closed loop brain computer interface or BCI. - The abstract reads, &quot;The in precentral cortex was conditioned by reinforcing high rates of neuronal discharge with Auditory and visual feedback was usually provided in Cool, so they actually got it done. - They got it done. This is back in 1969. - &quot;After several training sessions, monkeys could increase the by 50 to 500% above rates Fascinating. - Brain is very plastic. (Lex laughs) - And so from here, the - Yeah, number of experiments to interface with the I think, and also, just and how some of the cortical layers and the functions are organized. So the other paper that is pretty seminal, especially in the the motor decoding was this paper in the that discovered that motor tuning curve. So what are motor tuning curves? It's the fact that there are neurons in the motor cortex of that have a preferential direction So what that means is that would increase when you're thinking right, up, down, and any of those vectors. And based on that, you well, if you can't identify you can do a lot, and you can actually use that information for actually decoding someone's intended So that was a very, very seminal that there is some sort especially in the motor cortex. - So there's signal there. And if you measure the that you could actually figure - Correct, yeah, not but electrical signals from that give you these - Hmm. Okay, so going slowly towards Neuralink, one interesting question on the BCI front on invasive From this line of work, to park next to the neuron? What does that get you? - That answer fundamentally depends on what you want to do with it, right? There's actually incredible with EEG and electrocardiograph, ECoG, which actually doesn't penetrate the cortical layer or parenchyma, but you place a set of electrodes on the surface of the brain. So the thing that I'm is just actually understanding tap into the high understanding of the activities that are happening at the local level. And we can get into biophysics, but just to kind of step 'cause analogy here can be useful, and sometimes, it's a little bit difficult to think about electricity. At the end of the day, we're that's mediated by ionic currents, movements of these charged particles, which is really, really hard for most people to think about. But turns out, a lot of the activities that are happening in the brain and the frequency bandwidth, is actually very, very and in our normal So the analogy that typically if you have a football stadium, there's game going on. If you stand outside the stadium, you maybe get a sense based on the cheers and the whether the team is winning or not. But you have absolutely You have absolutely no idea or the players are talking what the next play is, So what you have to do is you near into the stadium and like into the individual chatter. In this specific example, right next to where So I think that's kind of what we're trying to do when we say invasive or minimally invasive or implanted brain computer interfaces versus non-invasive or It's basically talking about where do you put that microphone, and what can you do with that information. - So what is the biophysics communication that we're as we now step into the - Yeah, so brain is made up of these specialized cells called neurons. There's billions of Sometimes, people call that are connected in this that are constantly remodeling. They're changing their synaptic weights, and that's what we typically And the neurons are also bathed that is latent with like potassium ions, And those actually facilitate communication between And when you look at a neuron as well, they have these membrane protein structure called the which, in my opinion, is one In many ways, if you they're doing the job of Transistors are nothing than a voltage-gated conduction channel. And nature found a way to have that very, very early on in its evolution. And as we all know, with the transistor, you can have many, many computation and a lot of amazing things So I think it's one of just a beautiful, beautiful invention that the nature came up with, these voltage-gated ion channels. - I mean, I suppose there's, every level of the of the organism, there's for storing information And this is just one such way. But to do that with biological and chemical components is interesting. Plus like when neurons, I mean, it's chemical communication, I mean, these are like I mean, they move- - Yeah, they're actually, I mean, there's a lot of really, that are involved in, you know, kind of going back to during grad school, there are groups, and there were groups, looking at ways to cause an action potential using ultrasound wave. And the mechanism to is still unclear as I understand. It may just be that you're imparting some sort of thermal energy to depolarize in some interesting ways. But there are also these ion channels or even membranes that as there are being Vibrated. So there's just a lot of elements of these like move particles, which again, like that's governed by Movements of particles. And there's also a lot of kind - Also, not to mention, as there might be some beautiful weirdness in the quantum mechanical And he actually believes might emerge from the quantum So like there's physics, there's all of that is going on there. - Oh yeah, yeah. I mean, you can, yes, there's a lot of levels of But yeah, in the end, with these voltage-gated ion let these charge molecules that are in the extracellular And these neurons generally have these like resting potential where there's a voltage difference between inside the cell And when there's some sort the state such that they to the downstream network, these like sort of orchestration of these different molecules going in and out of these channels. They also open up, like once it reaches some threshold to a point where you that sends action potential. So it's a just a very beautiful kind of orchestration of these molecules. And what we're trying to do or parking it next to a neuron is that you're trying to measure these local changes in the potential. Again, mediated by the And what's interesting, there's a lot of physics involved. And the two dominant physics for this electrical recording domain is diffusion physics and electromagnetism. And where one dominates, where Maxwell's equation dominates versus fixed law dominates depends on where your electrode is. If it's close to the source, when you're farther away from So essentially, when you're you can listen in on and those local changes in the potential, and the type of signal that you get are these canonical textbook The moment you're further away, and based on some of the Christof Koch's lab and others, once you're away from that source by roughly around a hundred micron, which is about a width of a human hair, you no longer hear from that neuron. Or you're no longer able sensitive enough to be able local membrane potential And just to kind of give when you look at a hundred micron voxel, so a hundred micron by a hundred micron by a hundred micron box in a brain tissue, there's roughly around 40 neurons and whatever number of So there's a lot in that volume of tissue. So the moment you're outside of that, there's just no hope that you'll be able to detect that change from that you may care about. - Yeah, but as you're you'll be hearing other ones. So if you move another 100 micron, you'll be hearing chatter from another community. - And so the whole as many as possible electrodes and then you're listening to the chatter. - Yeah, you wanna listen to the chatter. And at the end of the day, you also want to basically let the software And just to kind of go to, why ECOG and EEG work at all, right? When you have these it's not just this one There's many, many other networks that are activating all the time. And you do see sort of a general change in the potential of this and that's what you're recording I mean, you still have that's stable in the brain and you're seeing some action potential changes and It's a much slower changing signals. But there are these like canonical kind of oscillations and waves, like gamma waves, beta waves. Like when you sleep, that can be detected, 'cause there's sort of a synchronized kind of global effect of the And I mean, the physics of this go, I mean, if we really wanna like there's a lot that like why diffusion physics when you're further away from the source. It's just a charged medium. So similar to how when you propagating in atmosphere or in a charged medium like a plasma, there's this weird shielding further attenuates the signal So yeah, you see, like if you do a really, really deep dive on kind of the signal you start to see kind in the beginning, and And that's the knee at which you go from electromagnet magnetism dominating to diffusion physics dominating. - But once again, with the you need to understand it's not as deep, because no matter where you're listening to a small - Correct, yeah. So once you penetrate the brain, you're in the arena, so to speak. - And there's a lot of neurons. - [DJ] There are many, many of 'em. - But then again, there's a that's studying like how the different sections of what they usually are responsible for, which is where the metaphor 'cause the seating is not - Also, most of them are silent. They don't really do much, or their activities are, you know, you have to hit it with just - So they're usually quiet. - They're usually very quiet. There's, I mean, similar to there's dark neurons. What are they all doing? When you place these electrode, again, like within this a hundred micron volume, you have 40 or so neurons. Like why do you not see 40 neurons? Why do you see only a handful? What is happening there? - Well, they're mostly quiet, but like when they speak, they That's the way I'd like to think about it. Anyway, before we zoom in So how does Neuralink work? From the surgery to the implant to the signal and the decoding process and the human being to actually affect the world outside? And all of this, I'm asking in the context of there's a gigantic historic just accomplished in January of this year, putting a Neuralink implant in the first human being, Noland. And there's been a lot to talk about there about his experience, all the nuance and the beauty and the fascinating of everything involved. But on the technical level, - Yeah, so there are to the technology that we're building. One is the device, the thing these neural chatters. We call it N1 implant or The Link. And we have a surgical robot that's actually doing an implantation of these tiny, tiny wires that are smaller than human hair. And once everything is surgirized, you have these neural signals, these spiking neurons that and you need to have some what the users intend to do with that. So there's what's called or B1 app that's doing that translation, is running the very, very that decodes these inputs and then convert it to a our participant, first participant Noland, to be able to control a cursor on this. - And this is done wirelessly? - And this is done wirelessly. So our implant is actually a two-part. The link has these flexible that have multiple And they're only inserted which is about three to five in the motor cortex region. That's where the kind of the And we have 64 of these threads, each thread having 16 electrodes along the span of three to four millimeters, separated by 200 microns. So you can actually record along And based on that signal, or ASIC that we built that that you're recording and then has some mechanism for detecting whether there was an interesting event that is a spiking event or not send that through whether it's a phone or a computer that's running this Neuralink application. - So there's onboard just to decide whether this is So there is some computational in addition to the human brain? - Yeah, so it does the signal processing to kind of really compress that you're recording. So we have a total of sampling at just under 20 So that's 200 megabits. That's coming through to the chip, from thousand channel And that's quite a bit of data. And there are technology available to send that off wirelessly, but being able to do that constrained environment that is a brain, so there has to be some amount to send off only the which in this particular case, for motor decoding is And then being able to use that to decode the intended cursor movement. So the implant itself processes it, figures out whether a with our spike detection algorithm, and then sends it off, packages it, sends it off through Bluetooth that then has the model to decode, okay, based on the spiking inputs, did Noland wish to go or click, or right click, or whatever? - All of this is really fascinating, but let's stick on the N1 implant itself, so the thing that's in the brain. So I'm looking at a picture there's a charging call, so we didn't talk about the The battery, the power Then there's the signal I wonder if there's more kinds of signal processing you can do. That's another question. And then there's the threads themselves with the enclosure on the bottom. So maybe to ask about the charging, so there's a external charging device. - Mm-hmm, yeah, there's an So yeah, the second part of the implant, the threads are the ones, again, just the last three to five that are actually penetrating the cortex. Rest of it is, actually, most of the volume rechargeable battery. And it's about a size of a quarter. I actually have a device here, if you wanna take a look at it. This is the flexible And then this is the implant. So it's about a size of a U.S. quarter. It's about nine millimeter thick. So basically, this implant, once you have the craniectomy threads are inserted, and the hole that you gets replaced with that. So basically, that thing plugs that hole, and you can screw in these self-drilling cranial screws to hold it in place. And at the end of the day, once there's only about two That's obviously transitioning off of the top of the implant And that's the minor bump that you have. - Those threads look tiny. That's incredible. That is really incredible. That is really incredible. And also, you're right, most of the actual volume is the battery. Yeah, this is way smaller than I realized. - They are also, the threads - They look strong. - And the thread themselves feature at the end of it called the loop. And that's the mechanism is able to interface and manipulate this tiny hair-like structure. - And they're tiny, so - Yeah, so the width of a and then tapers out to about 84 micron. So average human hair is about - This thing is amazing. This thing is amazing. - Yes, most of the volume rechargeable lithium ion cell. And the charging is done which is actually very commonly used. Most cell phones have that. The biggest difference is that for us, usually when you have a phone and you wanna charge it on a charging pad, you don't really care how hot it gets, whereas for us, it matters. There's a very strict regulation and good reasons to not actually increase the surrounding tissue temperature So there's actually a lot of innovation that is packed into this to allow charging of this implant without causing that temperature threshold to reach. And even small things like, and what's called the So without that ferrite shield, what you end up having inductive charging is is a metallic can, and you from external charger and that actually contributes So this ferrite shield, what concentrate that field and then around the coil that's - There's a lot of really to make it, I mean, you're into a complex biological system. - Yeah, there's a lot of innovation here. I would say that part of what enabled this was just the innovations in the wearable. There's a lot of really, really powerful, tiny, low power microcontrollers, or various different sensors A lot of innovation really came how this is packaged, and such that you don't really which is not a constraint - So let's talk about those tiny, tiny, tiny things. So how many of them are there? You mentioned a thousand electrodes. How many threads are there, and what did the electrodes - Yeah, so the current instantiation of the device has 64 threads, and each thread has 16 electrodes for a total of 1,024 electrodes that are capable of both And the thread is basically The metal conductor is of ti, plat, gold, plate, ti. And they're very, very tiny wires. Two micron in width, so - It's crazy that that has the polymer installation, and has 16 electrodes at the end of it. - On each of those threads. - Yeah, on each of those threads. - Correct. - You're not gonna be able - And I mean, to state the obvious, or maybe for people they're flexible. - Yes, yes, that's also one element that was incredibly important for us. So each of these thread 16 micron in width and then but in thickness, they're And thickness is mostly and this metal track and So two micron of polyamide, 400 nanometer of this metal stack, and two micron of polyamide to protect it from the environment that is 37 degrees C bag of salt water. - So what's some, maybe interesting aspects of Like what does it take to and to be able to for people who don't know - Yeah, so the material I don't think it was particularly unique. There were other labs that are kind of looking There's kind of a fundamental question and still needs to be and reliability of these compared to some of the neural interfaces, devices So penetrating the cortex like the Utah array. There are these four by four millimeter kind of silicon shank that have exposed recording site at the end of it. And that's been kind of the innovation from Richard Normann back in 1997. It's called the Utah Array 'cause he was at University of Utah. - And what does the Utah array look like? So it's a rigid type of- - Yeah, so we can actually look it up. - Oh. (Lex laughing) Yeah, so it's a bed of needle. There's- Okay, go ahead, I'm sorry. - So those are rigid- You weren't kidding. - And the size and the anywhere from 64 to 128. At the very tip of it that actually records neural signal. The other thing that's unlike Neuralink threads that that are actually exposed along the depth, this is So these Utah array spokes can be anywhere between 0.5 millimeters to 1.5 millimeter. And they also have So you can have it inserted but that's one of the And then, I mean, the main key there's no active electronics. These are just electrodes, and then there's a bundle of and then that actually that then has this port for any external electronic devices. They are working on a or have but it still requires that actually is one of for infection for the system. - What are some of the challenges associated with flexible threads? Like for example, on the robotic side, R1, implanting those threads, - Yeah, so as you mentioned, they're very, very difficult These Utah arrays that you saw earlier, they're actually inserted actually positioning it near And then there's a pneumatic hammer that actually pushes them in. So it's a pretty simple process, and they're easy to maneuver. But for these thin film arrays, they're very, very tiny and flexible. So they're very difficult to maneuver. So that's why we built an There are other reasons and that is ultimately, millions and millions of people And there just aren't that And robots can be something that we hope can actually do But yeah, the robot is this of product that we're working on. And it's essentially this that has the specialized robot head that has all of the optics and this kind of a needle that maneuvers these threads that you have on the thread. - So the thread already by which you can grab it? - Correct, correct. So this is fascinating. So you mentioned optics, So for now, there's a a hole in the skull. - And then after that, there's that's finding a way to And then you're grabbing it by the loop, each individual thread and placing it in a particular location And also choosing the depth of placement, all that? So controlling every, like the 3D geometry of the placement? - Correct. So the aspect of this robot that is unique is that it's not surgeon-assisted It's a semi-automatic or automatic robot. Obviously, there are when you're placing targets. You can always move it away from kind of major vessels that you see. But I mean, we wanna get and it just does the - So the computer vision candidates and the human and the robot does, does it do like one thread at a time or does it do one- at a time, and that's that we are looking at ways to do multiple threads at a time. There's nothing stopping from it. You can have multiple kind but right now, it's one by one. And we also still do quite a bit of just kind of verification to make sure that it got inserted. If so, how deep? Did it actually match and so on and so forth? - And the actual electrode at differing depths in the like, I mean, it's very small differences, - [DJ] Yeah, yeah. - And so that there's some as you mentioned. Like it gets more varied signal. - Yeah, I mean, we try to place them all around three or four just 'cause the span of the electrode, those 16 electrodes that we spans roughly around three millimeters. So we wanna get all of those in the brain. - This is fascinating. Okay, so there's a million questions here. If we could zoom in so what is your sense, how many neurons is each - Yeah, each electrode between 0 to 40, as I But tactically speaking, at most, like two to three. And you can actually it's coming from by the - [Lex] Oh, cool. - So I mentioned the spike It's called BOSS algorithm, buffer online, spike sorter. - Nice. - It actually outputs six unique values, which of these like negative like positive going hump, and then also the time And from that, you can have a kind of a statistical probability Is it not a spike? And then based on that, oh, that spike looks Must have come from a different neuron. - Okay, so that's a nice from which you can then about if there's a spike. - Especially in this kind of context where there could be And that also results in you being able to compress the data Okay. I mean, the labs do what's Usually, once you have the fully digitized signals and then you run a bunch of different set of algorithms to kind of tease apart, it's just all of this for - On the device. custom built ASIC digital processing unit. - [Lex] Highly heat constrained? - Highly heat constrained, and the processing time and giving you the output which is a very, very - Oh yeah, so the latency has to be super short. - Oh wow. Oh, that's a pain in the ass. - Yeah, latency is this huge, huge thing that you have to deal with. Right now, the biggest source of latency comes from the Bluetooth, the way in which they're packetized and we bend them in 15 millisecond. - Oh, interesting, it says Is there some potential innovation there on the protocol used? - Absolutely. - Yeah, Bluetooth is definitely not our final wireless communication protocol that we wanna get to. - Hence the N1 and the R1. I imagine that increases- - NxRx. - Yeah, that's the communication protocol, 'cause Bluetooth allows you to communicate I guess farther distances so you can go much shorter. - Yeah, well, the primary motivation for choosing Bluetooth is that, I mean, everything has Bluetooth. - All right, you can talk to any device. - Interoperability is especially in this early phase. And in many ways, if or a computer, you can do anything. - Well, it'll be interesting to step back and actually look at, again, the same pipeline that So what does this whole process look like? From finding and selecting a to the first time he's - So we have what's called that people can sign up to And that was a route to And the process is that once it contains some medical records, and based on their medical eligibility, that there's a lot of different inclusion-exclusion And we go through a with someone from Neuralink. And at some point, we to do a BCI home audit, 'cause one of the most about having this N1 system is that you can use it at home. Like you don't actually and go to the clinic to get connecterized to these like specialized equipment that you can't take home with you. So that's one of the key elements of when we're designing the system that we wanted to keep in mind, like people hopefully would every day in the comfort of their homes. And so part of our engagement and what we're looking is to just kind of what other assistive - And we should also step the estimate is 180,000 in the United States, and each year, an additional 18,000 suffer a So these are folks who living a life in terms of accessibility, in terms of doing the just take for granted day to day. And one of the things, one study is to enable them to where they by themselves can using just their mind, something that you're calling telepathy. So digital telepathy, where a with a digital device in all the ways that Control the mouse cursor, enough to be able to including play games and tweet And there's a lot of people for whom life, the basics of life are difficult, because of the things that - Yeah, I mean, movement is so I mean, even speaking involves movement of mouth, lip, larynx. And without that, it's And there are many, many And I mean, like especially if you start to kind of look at other that are not just from spinal cord injury, but from ALS, MS, or even That leads you to lose that independence, it's - And all of these are to help alleviate suffering, to help improve the quality of life. But each of the things you mentioned is its own little puzzle that needs to have increasing from a device like a Neuralink device. And so the first one it's just a beautiful word, telepathy. So being able to wirelessly with a digital device. Can you just explain exactly - Yeah, I mean, it's exactly that. I mean, I think if you are and able to click and to computer or phone, I mean, the whole world opens up to you. And I mean, I guess the word telepathy, if you kind of think about that as just definitionally information from my brain to your brain without using some of the like voices. - But the interesting thing here is, I think the thing that's is how exactly it works. So in order to move a cursor, there's at least a couple So one is you imagine with your hand, or you can like imagine moving the But it's like there is that's fascinating, 'cause and you have to learn And you kind of have to Because you reward yourself if it works. I mean, there's a step that, this is just a fascinating step, 'cause you have to get the brain to start firing in the right way. And you do that by imagining. Like fake it till you make it. (laughs) And all of a sudden, it creates that if decoded correctly, And then there's like noise around that, you have to figure all of that out. But on the human side, imagine the cursor moving - Yeah, he says using the force. - The force. I mean, isn't that just that it works? Like to me, it's like, holy Like you could move a - As much as you're that thing's also learning about you. Like our model is constantly to say, &quot;Oh, if someone is thinking about this sophisticated forms like that actually means - So the machine is and the human is learning So there is a adaptability to the signal processing, And then there's the adaptation Like the same way, if you give I learn very quickly so I learn to move it slower. And then there's other and all that kind of stuff So both are adapting to each other. - [DJ] Correct. - That's a fascinating on both sides, the software on both, the human software and- - The organic and the inorganic. - The organic and the inorganic. Anyway, so sorry to rudely interrupt. So there's this selection that Noland has passed with flying colors. So everything including that the, it's a BCI-friendly home, all of that. So what is the process of the first moment when he - The end to end, we say is anywhere between two to four hours. In particular case for Noland, it was about three and a half hours. And there's many steps leading to the actual So there's anesthesia induction, and we do intra-op CT imaging to make sure that we're drilling the hole in the right location. And this is also pre-planned beforehand. Someone like Nolan would go through fMRI, and then they can think And obviously, due to their injury, it's not gonna actually lead But it's the same part of the brain that actually lights up moving your finger to And that's one of the ways know where to place our threads, 'cause we wanna go into what's called a hand knob area in the motor cortex. And as much as possible, So yeah, we do intra-op CT imaging to make sure and double check the location of the craniectomy. And surgeon comes in, does their thing in terms of like skin so drilling of the skull, and then there's many There's what's called a dura, which is a very, very thick that gets actually resected in And that then exposed the pia in the brain that you wanna insert. And by the time it's been around anywhere between one to robot comes in, does its thing, inserting of the thread. That takes anywhere In the particular case for Noland, it was just under or it And then after that, the surgeon comes in. There's a couple other steps of like actually inserting to protect the thread And then yeah, screw in the and then suture and then you're out. - So when Noland woke What's the recovery like, and when was the first - So he was actually like an hour after the we did turn on the device, make sure that we are and we actually did have a couple signals that we notice that he And what I mean by modulate is that he can think about crunching his fist, and you could see the (Lex laughing) - That's awesome. - And that was immediate, right? Immediate after in the recovery room. - How cool is that? - Yeah. I mean, what did that feel like for you? This device and a human being, a first step of a gigantic journey? I mean, it's a historic moment. Even just that spike, just - Obviously, there have been pioneers that have participated investigational early feasibility studies. So we're obviously standing in the shoulders of the giants here. We're not the first ones to actually put electrodes in the human brain. But I mean, just leading I definitely could not sleep. It's the first time that you're working in a completely new environment. We had a lot of confidence or preclinical R&amp;D studies the threads, the insertion, and that it's obviously ready but there's still a lot of unknown unknown about can the needle actually insert? I mean, we brought just in case they break, and But I mean, that was a level of just complete unknown, right? 'Cause it's a very, very And I mean, that's why we do clinical trial in the first place to be able to test these things out. So extreme nervousness and just many, many sleepless night leading up to the surgery and definitely the day before the surgery, and it was an early morning surgery. Like we started at seven in the morning. And by the time, it was around 10:30. Everything was done. But I mean, first time seeing that, well, number one, just huge relief that this thing is doing And two, I mean, just for Noland and his family, and then many others that have applied and that we've spoken to and will speak to are, I mean, true pioneers everywhere. And I sort of call them the neural astronauts or neuralnaut. These amazing, just Like these amazing just pioneers, right? Exploring the unknown outwards. In this case, it's inward. But incredible amount to just participate and play a part. And it's a journey that But also like, I think it was just, that was an very, very but our work was just starting. So a lot of just kind of anticipation for, okay, what needs to happen next? What are set of sequences of events that needs to happen for for both Noland as well as us? - Just to linger on that, just and the team for that milestone. I know there's a lot of work left, but that's really exciting to see. That's a source of hope. It's this first big step, opportunity to help hundreds and then maybe expand for the human mind for millions So it's really exciting. So like the opportunities and to do that safely and was really fun to see. As an engineer just watching and do an epic thing, that was awesome. Huge congrats. - Thank you, thank you. Yeah, could not have And yeah, I mean, that's the other thing that I told the team as well, of just this immense sense I mean, it's a very important needless to say, as well as hopefully for many others out - So speaking of challenges, Neuralink published a blog post describing that some of And so the performance, as measured by bits per but then eventually, it was regained. And that the whole story is super interesting. That's definitely something I'll talk to Bliss and to Noland about. But in general, can you speak How was the performance regained and just the technical being retracted and moving? - The main takeaway is that in the end, the performance have come back and it's actually gotten He's actually just beat the to 8.5 BPS, so I mean, he's just cranking and - [Lex] The previous one - Correct. - Yeah, the previous world - Yeah. And his goal is to try to get to 10, which is roughly around kind of the median Neuralinker using a mouse with the hand. So it's getting there. - So yeah, so the - Yeah, better than before. So that's a story on its own of what took the BCI team to recover that performance. It was actually mostly on And so as I mentioned, at these spike outputs And what happened is into the surgery, we have solely come out of the brain. And the way in which we noticed is that, well, I think Noland that his performance was degrading. And I think at the time, a bunch of different experimentation, different algorithms, So it was expected that in the performance, but we did And then also, the way in of the electrodes or whether is by measuring impedance So we look at kind of the interfacial, kind of the Randall circuit, they say, the capacitance and the resistance between the electrosurface and the medium. And if that changes in some dramatic ways, we have some indication. Or if you're not seeing you have some indications that And what we notice is that and spike rate plots, those electrodes you are seeing some sort of movement that indicated that the And that obviously will on the model side, because that are going into the model is changing, 'cause you have less of them, that model needs to get updated, right? But there were still similar to how, even when on the surface of the like outside the skull, you What we started looking at is through this BOSS but we started looking at just the power of the frequency band that is interesting for Noland to be able to modulate. So once we kind of change the algorithm for the implant to not just but also these spike band power output, that helped us sort of, we find the model with the new set of inputs, that really ultimately gave In terms of, and obviously, ultimately, and the thing is figuring out ways in which we can keep those threads intact so that we have many more That's by far the number one priority that the team is currently embarking on to understand how to The thing that I'll say also this is the first time ever that we're putting these and human brain, just for size reference, is 10 times out of the monkey And it's just a very, very It moves a lot more. It like actually moved a when we did Noland's surgery. And it's just a very, than what we're used to. And this is why we do We wanna uncover some of these issues and failure modes earlier than later. So in many ways, it's provided us with this enormous amount of data and information to be able to solve this. And this is something that Once we have set of clear objective and engineering problem, of talents across many, many disciplines to be able to come together and fix the problem very, very quickly. - But it sounds like one of is for the system and the decoding side to be adaptable across So whether it's movement of threads or different aspects of signal drift sort of on the software something changing, cursor drift that could be corrected, and there's a whole UX So it sounds like adaptability is like a fundamental property - It is, and I mean I think, I mean, as a company, we're We make these thin film - Yeah, there's, like This whole paragraph is pretty gangster. &quot;Building the technology described above has been no small feat.&quot; And there's a bunch of links here that I recommend people click on. &quot;We constructed in-house to rapidly produce various that constitute our electrode threads. We created a custom femtosecond laser mill to manufacture components I think there's a tweet - That's a whole thing - Yeah, okay, well, what This thing? &quot;So in less than one minute, laser mill cuts this geometry So we're looking at this &quot;The tip is only 10 to only slightly larger than the The small size allows with minimal damage to the cortex.&quot; Okay, so what's interesting So we're looking at this - This is the needle that's engaging with the loops in the thread. So they're the ones that thread the loop and then peel it from the silicon backing. And then this is the into the tissue, and then this pulls out, leaving the thread. And this kind of a that we used to call is the thing that actually is grasping the loop. And then it's designed in such way, such that when you pull - And the robot is - Correct, so this is And basically, the robot that look for where the loop is. There's actually a 405 nanometer light that actually causes the so that you can locate - So the loop lights up? - Yeah, yeah, they do. It's a micron precision process. - What's interesting about the robot that it takes to do that? That's pretty crazy. That's pretty crazy that robot is able to get this kind of precision. - Yeah, our robot is quite heavy. Our current version of it. There's, I mean, it's that weighs about a ton, 'cause it needs to be environmental vibration. And then as the head is moving there's a lot of kind of motion control to make sure that you can A lot of optics that We're working on next that is lighter, easier to transport. I mean, it is a feat to move the robot. - And it's far superior to a human surgeon at this time for this particular task. - Absolutely, I mean, let alone a loop in a sewing kit, we're talking like These things, it's not visible. - So continuing the paragraph, &quot;We developed novel hardware such as our accelerated and simulated surgery &quot;to stress test and validate the robustness of our technologies. We performed many to refine our procedures and This is pretty cool. &quot;We practice surgeries on proxies with all the hardware and or in the engineering space. This helps us rapidly test and measure.&quot; So there's like proxies. - Yeah, this proxy's super cool actually. So there's a 3D printed that is taken at Barrow, as well as this hydrogel mix, sort of synthetic polymer the mechanical properties of the brain. It also has vasculature of the person. So basically, what we're and there's a lot of work that has gone into making this set proxy that it's about like finding the right concentration of these different synthetic polymers to get the right set of consistency as they're being inserted. But we practice this Noland's basically physiology prior to actually doing the surgery. - So every step, every step? - Every step, yeah. Like where does someone stand? I mean, what you're This is in our office of the robot engineering space that we have created this like mock or space that looks exactly like what they would experience, all the staff would experience So I mean, it's just kind where you know exactly at what point and you just and over again with an exact anatomy of someone that you're going to surgerize. And it got to a point where when we created a &quot;Oh, that looks very familiar. We've seen that before.&quot; - Yeah. Man, there's wisdom you can gain through doing the same thing It's like a Jira dreams because then it's like the Olympics, and then it feels easy. It feels like any other day. It feels almost boring 'cause you visualized this so many times, you've practiced this so many times, and nothing bothers you. It's boring. You win the gold medal, it's boring. And the experience they talk probably that they don't - Yeah, the power of I mean, there's a whole field that studies where muscle memory lies in cerebellum. Yeah, it's incredible. - I think it is a good sort of the big question how do we know every aspect of this that you describe is safe? - At the end of the day, the gold standard is to look at the tissue. What sort of trauma did And does that correlate anomalies that you may have seen? And that's the language to about the safety of inserting and what type of trauma So we actually have an entire department, department of pathology that There are many steps that Once you have studies that are launched with particular endpoints in mind, at some point, you have and then you go through necropsy to kind of collect the You fix them in formalin, and you like gross them, you section them, and you look at individual slices just to see what kind of So that's the kind of the and as well for us to kind of the insertion mechanism at various different time points. Both acute, so anywhere to beyond three months. - So those are kind of the details of an extremely high standard of safety that has to be reached. - Correct. but this, in general, And every aspect of this, I think Matthew MacDougall has mentioned that like the standard is, let's say, how to put it politely? Higher than maybe some other operations that we take for granted. So the standard for all is extremely high. - Very high. I mean, it's a highly, with the governing every medical device that gets marketed. And I think it's a good thing. It's good to have those high standards, and we try to hold to kind of understand what these innovative emerging technologies and new technologies And so far, we have by lack of immune response - Speaking of which, you talk to me with and some of the images Can you explain to me - Yeah, so what you're looking So this is a sectioned tissue slice from an animal that was So kind of a chronic time point. And you're seeing all and each color indicates So purple and pink are astrocytes They're types of glial cells. And yet the other thing that is your brain is not just made up of soup of neurons and axons. There are other cells, like glial cells, that actually kind of is if there are any trauma - The brown are the neurons here? - The brown are the neurons. - So what you're seeing is, you're seeing these like the insertion sites. And when you zoom into one of And then in this particular case, I think we're seeing about the 16 wires that are going into the page. And the incredible thing here is the fact that you have the neurons that or brown circular or elliptical thing that are actually touching So what this is saying is that that's caused during this insertion. And with these neural interfaces, these micro electrodes that you insert, that is one of the most So when you insert these it causes neuronal death around the site, because you're inserting And that kind of elicit through microglia and astrocytes. They form this like Oh, not only are you but you're also creating that then basically prevents you from recording neural signals, 'cause you're getting from the neurons that And that is the biggest mode of failure. And in this particular it's about 50 micron with that scale bar. The neurons just seem (Lex laughing) - And so there's certainly no trauma. That's such a beautiful image, by the way. So the brown are the neurons. And for some reason, I can't look away. It's really cool. that these things like, I mean, your tissues generally don't This is multiplex stain that that are staining these We use very standard set with HG, EB1 and new N and GFAP. So if you go to the next image, this is also kind of 'cause you can make an when we saw the previous image, we said, &quot;Oh, like are the threads just floating? Like what is happening here? Like are we actually So what we did is we did another stain, and this is all done in-house, of this batons, trichrome stain, which is in blue that shows So the blue basically, like you don't want the blue 'cause that means that there's some sort of scarring that's happen. And what you're seeing, if you is that you don't see any of the blue, which means that there or very, very minimal to a amount of trauma in - So that presumably is of having this kind of flexible thread. - Yeah, so we think this is as well as the flexibility of the threads. Also the fact that R1 so we're not disrupting or we're not causing damage to the vessels and not breaking any of has basically caused the - But this is also a nice illustration of the size of things. So this is the tip of the thread. - Yeah, those are neurons. - And they're neurons. And this is the thread listening. And the electrodes are positioned how? - Yeah, so this is, what you're looking at is Those are the conductive wires. So each of those should So what we're looking at is we're looking at the coronal slice. So we're looking at some So as you go deeper, you'll obviously have less and less of the But yeah, the point basically being that there's just kind of which is just an incredible thing to see. I've just never seen anything like this. - How easy and safe is - Yeah, so it depends on when. In the first three months there's a lot of kind of tissue Similar to when you got a cut, you obviously start or depending on the size of the wound, scar tissue forming, right? There are these like they turn into scab and The same thing happens in the brain, and it's a very dynamic environment. And before the scar or the neomembrane that forms, it's quite easy to just pull 'em out. And there's minimal trauma Once the scar tissue forms, we believe that that's the thing that's currently anchoring the thread. So we haven't seen any So they're quite stable. It gets harder to actually So our current method is cutting the thread, and then unscrewing and And that hole is now gonna be plugged with either another Neuralink or just with kind of a - Is it okay to leave the - Yeah, we think so. We've done studies where and one of the biggest do they migrate and do they get to a point where they should not be? We haven't seen that. Again, once the scar tissue forms, they get anchored in place. And I should also say like we're not just Like we've actually Most of our monkeys or non-human primates, NHP have been upgraded. Pager, who you saw playing mind pong, has the latest version of and is seemingly very - So what's designed for the So maybe for Noland. What would the upgrade look like? It was essentially what you're mentioning. Is there a way to upgrade where you take it apart and and upgrade the internals? - Yeah, so there are a So for Noland, if we were to upgrade, what we would have to do or extract the threads depending on kind of the situation there in terms of how they're If you were to remove them you have an intact brain different threads with the There are a couple different other ways that we're thinking about, the future of what the One is, at the moment, we this kind of thick layer but that actually is the thing that actually proliferates So typically, general good rule of thumb is you wanna leave the nature as is and not disrupt it as much. So looking at ways to insert which comes with different such as it's a pretty thick layer, so how do you actually penetrate that without breaking the needle? So we're looking at different as well as the kind of The other biggest challenges optically, and with So how do you avoid still that we have of avoiding vasculature? How do you image through that? How do you actually still mediate that? So there are other imaging techniques that we're looking at to enable that. But our hypothesis is that, and based on some of the doing through the dura insertion that causes them to be much And the other thing that this is gonna be a fundamental change in the implant architecture, is at the moment, it's a that comes with a thread So you can't actually but you can imagine Bottom part, that is the that has the chips and maybe And then you have another implant that has more of the and the bigger battery. And then one can be under the dura, one can be above the dura, like being the plug for the skull. They can talk to each other, but the thing that you wanna upgrade, the computer and not the thread. If you wanna upgrade that, remove the screws and then It's a very, very easy surgery too. Like you do a skin incision, Probably be able to do this in 10 minutes. - So that would allow you to - [DJ] Correct. - So I mean, this leads to what is the pathway to scaling that increase in the number of threads? Is that a priority? What's the technical challenge there? - Yeah, that is a priority. So for next versions of the implant, the key metrics that are number of channels, just recording from more and more neurons. We have a pathway to actually to hopefully 3,000 if not And then end of next year, we wanna get to even more, 16,000. - Wow. - There's a couple limitations to that. One is obviously being able to photo lithographically As I mentioned, it's two Obviously, there are chips than those types of resolution, and we have some of the tools that we have brought in So traces will be narrower more of the wires coming up into the chip. Chips also cannot linearly as you have more and more channels. So there's a lot of and architecture as well as to make them lower power. You need to also think about, if you have all of these spikes, how do you send that off So you need to think about and potentially innovations Physically, one of the biggest challenge is gonna be the interface. It's always the interface that breaks. Bonding this thin film It starts to become very, very So how do you characterize that? There's a lot of innovations in kind of the 3D integrations that we can take advantage of. One of the biggest is forming this hermetic barrier, right? That this is an extremely that we're in - the brain. So how do you protect it from, yeah, like the brain trying to also your electronics leaking things that you don't want into the brain. And that forming that hermetic barrier is gonna be a very, very big challenge that we I think are actually - How do you test that? Like what's the development environment to simulate that kind of harshness? - Yeah, so this is where essentially is a brain in a vat. It literally is a vessel and again, for all intents and purpose for this particular type of test, your brain is a salt water. And you can also put some like reactive oxygen species that get at kind of these interfaces and trying to cause a But you could also increase the rate at which these interfaces are aging by just increasing temperature. So every 10 degrees you're basically accelerating time by 2x. And there's limit as to how much temperature you wanna there's some other non-linear dynamics that causes you to have that just is not realistic So what we do is we by 20 degrees Celsius that increases the aging by four times. So essentially one day in ALT chamber, it's four day in calendar year. And we look at whether the including the threads and- - And operation and all of that? - And operation and all of that. It obviously is not an exact 'cause brain has mechanical, other more biological But it is a good test environment, testing environment for and the strength of the enclosure. And I mean, we've had implants, the current version of the implant that has been in there for, I mean, close to two and a half years, which is equivalent to a decade. And they seem to be fine. - So it's interesting that the burn, so basically, close hot salt water is a good Yeah, by the way, I'm drinking LMNT, which is basically salt water, it doesn't have computational but maybe in terms of it's quite similar and I'm consuming it. - Yeah, you have to get it - And then consciousness will emerge. Yeah, no. - By the way, the other thing about our enclosure is, if it's not your common-looking that usually is encased in a titanium can that's laser welded. We use this polymer called PCTFE, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, which is actually commonly So when you have a pill there's like kind of That's what this is. No one's actually ever And the reason we wanted to do this is 'cause it's So when we talked about inductive charging, with titanium can, usually, if you wanna you have to have a sapphire window, and it's a very, very - So you're doing a lot of iteration here in every aspect of this. The materials, the software- - The whole, whole shebang. - So, okay. So you mentioned scaling. Is it possible to have as one of the ways of scaling? To have multiple Neuralink - That's the goal, that's the goal. Yeah, we've had, I mean, our monkeys have had two Neuralinks, one in each hemisphere. And then we're also looking one in motor cortex, one in visual cortex, and one in wherever other cortex. - So focusing on a particular function, one Neuralink device. - I mean, I wonder if there's that can be done on the compute side. So for the motor cortex- - Absolutely. That's the goal. And we talk about at Neuralink neural interface to the brain. And that also is strategically how we're approaching this with marketing. And also, with regulatory, which is, hey look, we have the robot, and the robot can access Right now, we're focused on motor cortex with current version of the N1 that's specialized for But also, at the end of the day, there's kind of a general But typically, if you to kind of hyperoptimizing you do need to get to some But what we're saying is that, hey, you are now used to this which took many, many and conversation with the FDA. And also, internally convincing And now the difference is that if we go to other parts of which we're interested obviously, it's a completely The cortex is laid out It's gonna be more stimulation focus rather than recording, just kind of creating visual percepts. But in the end, we're using the same thin film array technology. We're using the same robot We're using the same packaging technology. Now, more the conversation what are the differences of those differences - The way you said second product is both hilarious and awesome to me. That product being restoring So can you speak to I mean, the possibilities to be able to give that who don't have sight or Can you just speak to the challenges of, there's several challenges here. - Oh, many. like you said, from Just any aspect of that that you're both excited - Yeah, I guess I'll start by saying that we actually have been capable of stimulating through our thin film array as well as other electronics for years. We have actually demonstrated for reanimating the Obviously, for the current EFS study, we've hardware disabled that, so that's something as a separate, separate journey. And obviously, there are to write information into the brain. The way in which we're doing passing electrical current, to really change the local environment so that you can sort of artificially cause kind of the neurons to For vision specifically, the it's both well-understood. I mean, anything with kind of brain, there are aspects of it But in the end, like we But the way visual system works is that you have photon hitting your eye, and in your eyes, there called photoreceptor cells that convert the photon energy That then gets projected your visual cortex. It goes through actually thalamic system called LGN that then projects it out. And then in the visual cortex, there's visual area one or V1, and then there's bunch processing layers like V2, V3. And there there are actually And when you study the behaviors of these convolutional neural networks, like what the different layers first, they're detecting like these edges, and they're then detecting and then they start to Kind of similar thing And a lot of that has been inspired, and also, it's been kinda exciting to see some of the correlations there. But things like from there, and where's color encoded, there's just not a lot of understanding, fundamental understanding there. So in terms of kind of bringing sight back to those that are blind, there are many different There's actually million people, one million people in the That means like certain, like score below in kind of the visual tests. I think it's something like, if you can see something that normal people can like if you're worse than - So that means you can't - Correct. - Yeah, like to navigate your environment. And yeah, there are There are forms of blindness of your retina, these photoreceptor cells, and rest of your visual processing that I described is intact. And for those types of individuals, you may not need to maybe stick electrodes into the visual cortex. You can actually build that actually just replaces the function of that retinal cells And there are many companies But that's a very small slice. Albeit significance, those smaller slice of folks that are legally blind. If there's any damage whether it's in the optic nerve or just the LGN circuitry or any break in that circuit, that's not gonna work for you. And the source of where cause that visual percept to happen, because your biological is by placing electrodes in the back of your head. And the way in which this would work is that you would have an external camera, whether it's something as or some sort of wearable that Meta's working on that And that scene is then converted to set of electrical impulses that you would activate through these thin film arrays. And by playing in a of these stimulation patterns, you can create what's called phosphenes, which are these kind that you can also create You can actually create those percepts by stimulating in the visual cortex. And the name of the game is and have those percepts be, the phosphenes be as small as possible so that you can start to tell apart, like they're the individual So if you have many, many of those, potentially, you'll be able to, in the long term, be able to actually get naturalistic vision. But in the like short being able to at least be able to have object detection algorithms the pre-op processing units, and then being able to at so you don't bump into stuff. - It's incredible. This is really incredible. So you basically would be adding pixels, and your brain would start to figure out what those pixels mean. Yeah, and like with on the signal processing on all fronts. - Yeah. The thing that actually, so a couple things. One is, obviously, if the way brain works, neuroplasticity is really nothing other than kind of your brain and different parts of your brain fighting for the limited territory. - [Lex] (laughs) Yeah. - And I mean, very, very quickly, you see cases where you I mean, you also hear that have heightened sense of And the reason for that is that cortex that's not used just gets taken over by these different parts of the cortex. So for those types of individuals, I mean, I guess they're some other parts of their senses But it's gonna be obviously a very, very different So I think that's a interesting caveat. The other thing that also is that we're currently in terms of the wavelength There's a very, very small wavelength that is a visible light wavelength that we can see with our eyes. But when you have an external you're not limited to that. You can have infrared, you can have UV, you can have whatever other And whether that gets matched to some sort of weird conscious But oftentimes, I talk to people about the goal of Neuralink being going beyond the That's sort of what I mean. - And if you're able to when we use our sight, and there's not much processing on it. If you're being able maybe you can do some kind of processing. Maybe you do object - [DJ] Yeah. - You're doing some and there's a lot of So it's not just increasing that kind of stuff, but it's of interesting processing. I mean, my theory of how is that, I mean, there's happening in the world, and that are going into your where some of the pre-processing But I mean, I actually think that just from a fundamental perspective, the reality that we're is so there's so much data. And I think humans are like eat enough actually to So there's some sort of whether that happens in the retina, whether that happens in different layers of the visual cortex. Unclear. But like the analogy that if your brain is a CCD camera, and all of the information and when you try to with the CCD camera, it's just gonna saturate 'Cause it's enormous amount of energy. So what you do is you end up To just kind of narrow the information that's coming to you and being captured. And I think things like our experiences or our like drugs like propofol, that like anesthetic drug or psychedelics, what they're doing is these filters and putting in and kind of controlling - Yeah, man, not to but I just took a very in the Amazon jungle. So yes, it's a nice way to think about it. You're swapping out different experiences, and with Neuralink being primarily at first, to improve function, not for entertainment purposes - Yeah, giving back lost functions. - Well, giving back lost functions. And there, especially when the anything is a huge help. Would you implant a Neuralink - Absolutely. I mean, maybe not right - What kind of capability, once reached, you would start getting real curious and almost get a little antsy, like jealous of people that get it as you watch them get implanted? - Yeah, I mean I think, I mean, even with our early participants, if they start to do which I think is in the for them to be able to get, 15, 20, if not like 100 BPS right? There's nothing that from being able to achieve I mean, I would certainly get - I should say that watching Noland, I get a little jealous 'cause and it seems like such a - Yeah. So I mean, the thing that also is hard to appreciate sometimes is that, he's doing these things while talking. I mean, it's multitasking, right? So it's clearly, it's obviously cognitively intensive, but similar to how, when we talk, we move our hands, like these I mean, he's able to do that. And you won't be able to do that with other assistive If you're obviously using you're very much fixated on that thing that you're trying to do. And if you're using voice control, I mean, like if you say some other stuff, yeah, you don't get to use that. - Yeah, the multitasking aspect of that is really interesting. So it's not just the BPS It's the parallelization If you measure the BPS for the entirety of the human organism, so if you're talking and and looking around also, I mean, there's just a lot of paralyzation - Yeah. But I mean, I think at some point for him, like if he wants to really it does require like And that's a separate circuitry Like how attention works and, you know? - Yeah, attention, like cognitive load, I've read a lot of literature Like you have your primary And the secondary task is And how does that affect the performance of the primary task? And depending on the tasks, I mean, this is an interesting And I think- - A lot of novel insights that can be gained from everything. I mean, I personally am surprised that Noland's able to do of the cursor while talking and also being nervous at the same time, 'cause he's talking like all of us are, if you're talking in front of the camera, you get nervous. So all of those are coming into play, and he is able to still Surprising. I mean, all of this is really amazing. And I think just after I kind of want Neuralink. - (laughs) Get in line. - And also, the safety get in line. Well, we should say the registry is for people who have quadriplegia and all that kind of stuff so- - There'll be a separate line for people. They're just curious, like myself. So now that Noland, patient P1, is part of the ongoing prime study, what's the high level And just the expansion that are getting to - Yeah, I mean, the primary goal is, for our study in the first place is to achieve safety endpoints. Just understand safety of this device, as well as the implantation process. And also, at the same time, and the impact that it could have on the potential users' lives. And just because you have, you're living with tetraplegia, it doesn't mean your situation is same as another person It's wildly, wildly varying. It's something that we're how our technology can serve not just a very small but broader group of individuals and being able to get the just the best product for them. There's obviously also goals that we have, and the primary purpose of is to learn from each to improve the device, improve the surgery before we embark on what's that then is much larger trial that starts to look at of your endpoints, and that's required before you can then market the device. And that's how it works in the U.S. and just generally around the world. That's the process you follow. So our goal is to really just understand from people like Noland, what aspects of our If it turns out that people are like, &quot;I really don't like the fact I wanna be able to use this I mean, that is a user which we can only find out from just being able to engage with them. - So before the pivotal study, there's kind of like a rapid innovation based on individual experiences. You're learning from individual like the high resolution details in terms of like cursor control and signal and all that kind of stuff - Yeah, yeah, so there's hardware changes but also just firmware updates. So even when we had that sort he now has the new firmware And it's similar to how like your phones get updated all the time with new firmware for security patches, whatever new functionality UI, right? And that's something that is It's not a static one-time device that can only do the thing I mean, it's similar to Tesla. You can do over the air firmware updates, and now you have completely And all this bells and on everything like the latest, right? When we say generalized platform, that's what we're talking about. - Yeah, it's really cool how there's like calibration, And then there's update. You just click and get an update. What other future capabilities You said vision. That's a fascinating one. What about sort of this kind of stuff? And what else is there? - Yeah, those are still in So largely speaking, we have two programs. We have the movement program and we have the vision program. The movement program the digital freedom. As you can easily guess, 2D cursor in the digital space, you could move anything So robotic arms, wheelchair, or even really like, whether or just like directly to those interfaces, so like to those machines. So we're looking at ways to kind of expand those types of capability, That requires conversation with the FDA and kind of showing safety data for, if there's a robotic arm or a wheelchair that we can guarantee that themselves accidentally, right? It's very different if you're moving stuff in the digital domain versus you can actually potentially So we're working through that right now. Speech does involve Speech prosthetic is and there's actually been a that's been happening in academia. Sergei Stavisky at UC and late Krishna Shenoy at Stanford doing just some incredible amount of work in improving speech neuroprosthetics. And those are actually looking more at parts of the motor cortex that are controlling And being able to like, even by mouthing the you can pick up those signals. The more sophisticated higher like the Broca's area or Wernicke's area, those are still very, very big mystery in terms of the underlying mechanism of how all that stuff works. But yeah, I mean, I think is to kind of understand those things and be able to provide to be able to understand - This is where I get to Do you think we can start getting insight into things like thought? So speech is, there's a muscular There's like the act of producing sounds. But then what about the Like low level thoughts Do you think we'll start noticing kind of signals that could be picked up? They could be understood, in order to interact - In some ways, like I guess this starts to kind of get into the heart And I mean, on one hand, all of these are, at some point, set of electrical signals, that from there, maybe it in itself is giving you the or somehow, human mind storytelling machine. So we're telling ourselves that there's some But I mean, I certainly think that BCI and really BCI at the end of the day is a set of tools that the underlying mechanisms but also broader sense. And whether there's some of like electrical signal, that means like you're and you can either like learn from like many, many sets of and be able to do mind reading or not. I'm not sure. I certainly would not as a possibility, but I think BCI alone probably can't do that. There's probably additional And also, like just heart at the end of the day is rooted in this philosophical question of like, what's the meaning of it all? What's the nature of our existence? Where's the mind emerge - Yeah, how does the from just a bunch of - Yeah, yeah, I mean, we and what we're building as a tool for understanding the mind, the brain. The only question that matters. There's actually, there actually is some of like what it would take some of these experiences If you actually look at there are two hemispheres. There's a left-sided brain, And I mean, unless you you normally don't feel like Like you just feel like one legs, right? So what is happening there, right? If you actually look there's a structure that called the corpus callosum around 200 to 300 million So whether that means that's and electrodes that we need to create some sort of like whatever new conscious experience that you can experience. But yeah, I do think that there's like kind of an interesting existence - And that threshold is - Oh yeah, these things, everything in this domain - And then there would be, you'd be continuously Do you see a world where like tens of millions, walking around with a Neuralink device, or multiple Neuralink - I do. First of all, there are, like if you look at from movement disorders I mean, that's in the tens if not hundreds of millions of people. So that alone, I think, and potential good that we can do with this type of technology. And once you start to like psychiatric application, depression, anxiety, hunger, or obesity, right? Like mood, control of appetite, I mean, that starts to - Not to mention that most people on earth have a smartphone. And once BCI starts as a preferred methodology of interacting with the digital world, that also becomes an interesting thing. - Oh yeah, I mean, yeah. This is even before going to that, right? I mean, there's like almost, I mean, the entire world that could benefit from And then, yeah, like kind of next generation machines or even ourselves, in many ways, I think BCI And some of the things is I do think that there that you could see eight billion people walking around with Neuralink. - Well, thank you so And I look forward to - Thanks for having me. - Thanks for listening to And now, dear friends, the head neurosurgeon at Neuralink. When did you first become - Since forever. As far back as I can remember, I've been interested in the human brain. I mean, I was a thoughtful kid and a bit of an outsider. And you sit there thinking about what the most important in your little tiny adolescent brain. And the answer that I came to, that I converged on was you can possibly conceive of, for human beings to care about are literally contained in the skull. Both the perception of them And the solutions to all our problems and all of our problems are And if we knew more about how that worked, how the brain encodes information and generates desires and we could do more about it. You think about all the in human history. You think about all the You think about the holocaust, you think about any prison and all of those problems So if you get a little you provide people the And in the way I read history, the way people have dealt is that they most often with huge asterisk. But I think it's an interesting, a worthy and noble pursuit to give people more options, more tools. - Yeah, that's a fascinating You just imagine all these Stalin, Hitler, all of these, Gengis Khan, all of them just had like a brain, just a bunch of neurons, like a few tons of billions of neurons gaining a bunch of information They have a set of module that does language and And from there, in the they're able to murder millions of people. - [Matthew] Yeah. - All that coming from, there's not some glorified of this enormous mind It's just the brain. - Yeah, yeah. I mean, a lot of that people like that can - Other brains. - Yeah, and so I always to look to primatology, look to our closest non-human relatives for clues as to how and what particular humans And so you look at chimpanzees and bonobos and they're similar but different in their social structures particularly. And I went to Emory in Atlanta and studied under Frans, who was kind of the leading and his work at looking of how you would watch and understand the motivations of the characters He would look at a chimp colony and basically apply that lens. I'm massively oversimplifying it. If you do that, instead of just saying, subject 473 through his you talk about them in terms accord them the dignity with understandable goals and drives, what they want out of life. And primarily, it's the food, sex, companionship, power. You can understand chimp in the same lights much more easily. And I think doing so gives to reduce human behavior from that we layer onto it with language and look at it in terms of, oh, well, these humans are sex, food, power. And I think that's a pretty powerful tool to have in understanding human behavior. - And I just went to the and it's a very visceral reminder that a lot of life on earth They're all screaming at each other. Like I saw a lot of monkeys, and they're just trying or maybe if there's a battle for power, but a lot of the battle for power has to do with them getting laid. - Right. Breeding rights often And so if you can get a piece of that, then you're gonna do okay. - And would like to think that we're somehow but especially when it comes to primates, we're really aren't, you know. We can use fancier poetic language, but maybe some of the underlying drives that motivate us are similar. - Yeah, I think that's true. - And all of that is coming - Yeah. start studying the brain as I guess as a biological mechanism? - Basically, the moment I got to college, I started looking around for labs that I could do neuroscience work in. I originally approached of looking at interactions and the immune system, which to start, but I had this idea at the time that the contents of your a direct impact, maybe a powerful one on non-conscious systems in your body. The systems we think of as homeostatic, automatic mechanisms like like repairing a wound. And sure enough, there are big I mean, it gets to kind of a key point that I think goes under recognized. One of the things people don't recognize or appreciate about and that is that it basically controls or has a huge role in almost Like you try to name an example of something in your body or massively influenced by the I mean, you might say like but even those systems, the end up playing a role in that does have a direct influence on, say, the calcium level in your blood So non-obvious connections implicate the brain as really a potent prime mover in all of health. - One of the things I realized how most of the systems in the body integrated with the human brain, like they affect the brain I think there's just people and those kinds of things. It's just surprising how of that from the immune that don't obviously seem with sort of the nervous system. They all play together. - Yeah, you could driven by evolution too, If you get sick, if you you get the flu, it's pretty advantageous for your immune system to tell your brain, &quot;Hey, now be antisocial for a few days. Don't go be the life of the party tonight. In fact, maybe just under a blanket and just And sure enough, that that you see both in If you get sick, elevated in your blood and TNF alpha in your blood ask the brain to cut And even moving around, you have lower locomotor activity in animals that are infected with viruses. - So from there, the early days when did that step happen? - Yeah. - It was sort of an evolution of thought. I wanted to study the brain. I started studying the brain in undergrad in this neuroimmunology lab. I, from there, realized at some point that I didn't wanna I wanted to effect real in actual people's lives. And so after having not going into medical school, I was on a track to go into a PhD program. I said, &quot;Well, I'd like that option. I'd like to actually potentially help tangible people in front of me.&quot; And doing a little digging these MD-PhD programs where between them and do both. And so I went to USC for medical school and had a joint PhD program with Caltech, where I actually chose because of a researcher at who's one of the godfathers and has a MACAC lab where Utah arrays and other electrodes were being inserted into the brains of monkeys how intentions were being So I ended up there with the idea that maybe I would be a neurologist and study the brain on the side, and then discovered that neurology, again, I'm gonna make but neurology predominantly and distressingly to me is the practice of diagnosing a thing and then saying, &quot;Good luck with that. There's not much we can do.&quot; And neurosurgery, very differently, it's a powerful lever on taking people that are headed in a bad direction in the sense of brain tumors that are potentially treatable Even aneurysms in the brain, blood vessels that are gonna rupture, you can save lives really is at the end of the And so I was at USC, as I mentioned, that happens to be one of the And so I met these truly Alex Khalessi and Mike and Marty Weiss, these sort of epic people that were just human And so it kind of changed my thinking from neurosurgeons are distant gods that live on another planet and occasionally come and visit us to these are humans that And there's nothing from being one of them. And so at the last I changed gears from going and switched into neurosurgery, I had to do another year of research, because I was so far along in the process to switch into neurosurgery. The deadlines had already passed. So it was a decision that cost time, but absolutely worth it. - What was the hardest on the neurosurgeon track? - Yeah, two things. I think that residency in neurosurgery is sort of a competition of pain, of like how much pain - Yeah. workout restrictions that are not really, they're viewed at, I think, internally among the residents as weakness. And so most neurosurgery residents try to work as hard as they can. And that I think necessarily and sometimes, over the work hour limits. And we care about being compliant with whatever regulations But I think more important than that, people wanna give their all in becoming a better neurosurgeon, because the stakes are so high. And so it's a real fight to get residents to say go home at the end of their shift and not stay and do more surgery. - Are you seriously saying is literally like and rest and all this kind of stuff? - Historically, that was the case. I think the next generation, I think the next generation and more selfcare- All right, I'm just - I didn't say it. - Now I'm making enemies. Okay, I get it. Wow, that's fascinating. So what was the second thing? - The personalities. And maybe the two are connected, but- - Was it pretty competitive? - It's competitive and it's also, as we touched on earlier, and I think neurosurgery of mystique and excellence And so it's an invitation that are cloaked in that authority. A board certified a walking fallacious You have license to walk into any room and act like you're an expert on whatever. And fighting that tendency is not something that most Humility isn't the forte. - Yeah, so I have friends who know you, and whenever they speak about you, that you have the surprising quality for a neurosurgeon of humility, which I think indicates as perhaps in other professions, 'cause there is a kind of gigantic sort of heroic aspect to neurosurgery, and I think it gets to - Yeah. Well, I think that allows me to play well at an Elon company. Because Elon, one of his strengths, I think, is to just instantly see through fallacy from authority. So nobody walks into a &quot;Well, goddamn it, you have to trust me. I'm the guy that built the And he says, &quot;Well, you did it wrong and we can do it better.&quot; Or, &quot;I'm the guy that kept Ford alive for the last 50 years. You listen to me on how to build cars.&quot; And he says no. And so you don't walk and say, &quot;Well, I'm a neurosurgeon. Let me tell you how to do it.&quot; He's gonna say, &quot;Well, I'm a I can think from first principles myself, thank you very much. And here's how I think Let's go try it and see who's right.&quot; And that's proven I think to be a very powerful approach. - If we just take that tangent, there's a fascinating that you get to interact What do you think is the What have you learned from just getting to observe these folks? World experts in different - Yeah, there's a sweet and forcefully speak their mind and passionately defend their position, and yet are still able to and change their ideas when they're wrong. And so I like the analogy of sort of how you polish rocks. You put hard things in a People bash against each other and outcome's a more refined product. And so to make a good team at Neuralink, we've tried to find to defend their ideas passionately. And occasionally, strongly that they're working with and have the best idea come out on top. It's not an easy balance, again, to refer back to the primate brain. It's not something that is inherently built into the primate brain to say, &quot;I passionately put all and now I'm just gonna walk away from it. Admit you were right.&quot; Part of our brains tell us That is a loss of face, a loss of standing in the community. And now, you're a zeta chimp, 'cause your idea got trounced. And you just have to recognize in the back of your head is maladaptive and it's not helping the team win. - Yeah, you have to have the confidence to be able to walk away from Yeah. - And if you do that often enough, you're actually going to become the best in the world at your thing. I mean, that kind of that rapid iteration. - Yeah, you'll at least be - Ride the wave. What did you learn? You mentioned there's a lot of What lessons about surgery and life have you learned from those folks? - Yeah, I think working while functioning as a member of a team, getting a job done that working incredibly long taking care of someone that you think probably won't Working hard to make people look good the next morning. These folks were of excellent neurosurgical And I think we're well-recognized Especially Marty Weiss, they made huge contributions but they built training dozens or hundreds of I was just lucky to kind - What's that like, you where the person is likely not to survive. Does that wear on you? - Yeah. It's especially challenging when you, with all respect to our elders, it doesn't hit so much when you're taking care of an 80-year-old and something was going to And so you lose a patient like that, and it was part of the natural course of what is expected of them in Taking care of a father of someone in their 30s that and they show up in your ER having their first seizure of their life, and lo and behold, they've inoperable or incurable brain tumor. You can only do that, I before it really starts Or a young mother that shows up that has a giant hemorrhage in her brain that she's not gonna survive from. And they bring her four-year-old daughter to say goodbye one last time before they turn the ventilator off. The great Henry Marsh is who said it best. I think he says that every neurosurgeon carries with them a private graveyard, and I definitely feel that, especially with young parents. That kills me. They had a lot more to give. The loss of those people specifically has a knock on effect that's for people for a long time. And it's just hard to feel And that's where I think you to fight against a company like Neuralink or to constantly be taking pot shots at us because what we're doing is We're trying to give people options, to reduce suffering. We're trying to take the pain out of life that broken brains brings in. And yeah, this is just our little way that we're fighting back - Yeah, the amount of when some of the things that our brain is able to And to be able to restore some of that functionality is a real gift. - Yeah, we're just starting. We're gonna do so much more. - Well, can you take me of implanting, say, the - Yeah, it's a really simple, really simple, straightforward procedure. The human part of the surgery It's one of the most basic neurosurgery procedures imaginable. And I think there's evidence has been done for thousands of years. That there are examples I of healed or partially healed or ancient times in South America where these protosurgeons would drill holes in people's skulls, presumably to let out the evil spirits, but maybe to drain blood clots. And there's evidence of bone meaning the people at least survive some months after a procedure. And so what we're doing is that. We are making a cut in the over the area of the brain representation of hand intentions. And so if you are an this part of your brain is lighting up the entire time you're playing. We call it the hand knob. - The hand knob. - So it's all like the finger movement. All of that is just firing away. - Yep, there's a little squiggle One of the folds in the brain is kind of doubly folded So you can look at it on an MRI and say, &quot;That's the hand knob.&quot; And then you do a functional test and a special kind of MRI called And this part of the brain even quadriplegic people whose brains aren't connected to their They imagine finger movements, and this part of the So we can ID that part of the brain in anyone who's preparing &quot;Okay, that part of the brain, we confirm, is your hand intention area.&quot; And so I'll make a little cut in the skin, we'll flap the skin open, just like kind of opening only a lot smaller. Make a perfectly round one inch remove that bit of skull, open the lining of the brain, It's like a little bag of And then show that part And then this is where the robot shines. It can come in and take these tiny, much smaller than human hair electrodes and precisely insert them into the cortex, into the surface of the brain in a very precise spot that that are coating the surface of the brain. And after the robot's done with its part, then the human comes back into that hole in the screwing it down to the skull and sewing the skin back together. So the whole thing is a few hours long. It's extremely low risk compared involving the brain that might say, open up a deep part of the brain or manipulate blood vessels in the brain. This opening on the surface of the brain, with only cortical micro insertions, carries significantly less risk than a lot of the tumor that are routinely done. - So cortical micro and computer vision are designed - Exactly. - So I know you're a bit biased here, but let's compare human and machine. - Sure. surgeons able to do well, and what are robot at this stage of our human - Yeah, yeah, that's a good question. Humans are general purpose machines. We're able to adapt to unusual situations. We're able to change the plan on the fly. I remember well a surgery that down in San Diego, where the behind the ear and go that had come to lay on the facial nerve, the trigeminal nerve, the When that blood vessel lays on the nerve, it can cause just intolerable, that people describe like being And so the beautiful, elegant surgery is to go move this blood The surgery team, we went in there and started moving this blood vessel and then found that there on that blood vessel that on the pre-op scans. And so the plan had to dynamically change, and the human surgeons We're trained for all those things. Robots wouldn't do so at least in their current incarnation, fully robotic surgery, like the electrode insertion portion of the Neuralink surgery. It goes according to a set plan. And so the humans can interrupt the flow and change the plan, but the robot can't really change the It operates according and how it was asked to run. It does its job very precisely, but not with a wide degree of latitude and how to react to changing conditions. - So there could be just a that you could be surprised as a surgeon when you enter a situation that you have to dynamically adjust to. - Correct. good at that. - Currently. I think we are at the of the parameters for robot responsiveness to be dramatically broadened, right? I mean, you can't look and say that it's operating If a chicken runs across the road, it wasn't necessarily specifically, but a Waymo would have no problem reacting And so surgical robots aren't - And then there could be a lot of, sort of into like of maybe a robotic surgeon could say, this situation is perfectly familiar, or the situation is not familiar. And in the not familiar case, But basically like be very &quot;Okay, this for sure has and let the humans deal with the edge cases, all that.&quot; That's one possibility. So you think eventually, Well, you being neurosurgeon, your job being neurosurgeon. Humans, there will not left on this earth. - I'm not worried about my job in the course of my professional life. I think I would tell my to go in this line of work depending on how things look in 20 years. - It's so fascinating, 'cause I mean, if I have a line of work, I And if you ask me like for the what I would recommend for people, I would tell 'em, yeah, go. You will always have a job 'cause there's more and more computers and all this kind of But then you realize these come along and they're really So overnight, you could be surprised like, &quot;Wow, like what is the But then you start to think, &quot;Okay, it does seem like like you said, to deal In the case of programming, to kinda come up with novel It seems like machines aren't And when the stakes are very high, when it's life critical, especially in neurosurgery, the stakes are very high for a robot to actually replace a human. But it's fascinating that there's a human-robot collaboration. - Yeah, yeah. I do the parts it can't do, and it does the parts I can't do. And we are friends. (Lex laughing) - I saw that there's a So I mean, everything in Neuralink is tested extremely rigorously. But one of the things I on which the surgeries are performed. - Yeah. for the robot and for the human, for everybody involved What's that like practicing the surgery? - It's pretty intense. So there's no analog to Human surgery is sort that's handed down directly from master to pupil over the generations. I mean, literally the way you learn to be a surgeon on humans is I mean, first, you watch your professors do a bunch of surgery, and then finally, they of the surgery into your hands, and then the more complex parts. And as your understanding of the point and the purposes of the surgery increases, you get more responsibility Doesn't always go well. In Neuralink's case, the We, of course, practiced as We did hundreds of animal surgeries. And when it came time we had just amazing incredibly lifelike models. One of the engineers, Fran a pulsating brain in a that matches exactly including their face and And so when I was able to practice that, I mean, it's as close as it to being the real thing including the having a mannequin body attached to this custom head. And so when we were doing we'd wheel that body into the CT scanner and take a mock CT scan and conduct all the normal &quot;Stop, this patient, we're is mannequin number blah, blah, blah.&quot; And then opening the brain using standard operative standard surgical drills in the same OR that we do all of our practice And having the skull open which adds a degree of to perfectly precisely plan to the right depth and location. And so yeah, we kind of broke new ground on how extensively we - So there was a historic moment, a big milestone for Neuralink in part for humanity with the first human getting a Neuralink implant Take me through the surgery on Noland. What did it feel like to be part of this? - Yeah. Well, we're lucky to have at the Barrow Neurologic Institute. They are, I think, the premier neurosurgical hospital in the world. They made everything as easy as possible for the trial to get going with their expertise on It was a much more high I mean, even though the in question in terms of the number of observers, there's conference rooms full of people watching live streams in the hospital, rooting for this to go perfectly, and that just adds pressure for even the most intense Say, removing a tumor or placing deep brain stimulation electrodes. And it had never been There were unknown unknowns. And so definitely, a for the whole team, not knowing if we were going to encounter, say, a degree of brain or a degree of brain far away from the skull and or some other unknown unknown problem. Fortunately, everything went well and that surgery is one of the smoothest outcomes we could have imagined. - Were you nervous? I mean, you're a bit quarterback in the Super Bowl kind of situation. - Extremely nervous. Extremely. I was very pleased when it went well and when it was over. Looking forward to number two. Even with all that practice, all of that, you've never been in a situation that's still high stakes in And we should also probably mention, given how the media maybe in a dark kind of way, - Well, I think wealth is easy to hate or envy or whatever. And I think there's a whole and bad news is great for clicks. And so any way to take an is gonna be really good for clicks. - It just sucks because I think It discourages people from trying to solve really hard problems, because you have to go into the unknown. You have to do things that and you have to take risks. - Yeah. You have to do all kinds but risks nevertheless. And I just wish there would of the risk taking versus on the sidelines, like and then pointing out the failure. Yeah, it sucks. But in this case, it's went just flawlessly, but it's unnecessary - Now that there's a human there's a participant whose wellbeing rides on this doing well, you have to be a pretty bad person to be rooting for that to go wrong. And so hopefully, people and realize that at some point. - So did you get to like watch the robot work? You get to see the whole thing? - Yeah, I mean, because an of all of the medical decision making throughout the process, I after exposing the brain and and placed the targets on the robot software interface that tells the robot where it's going to insert with my hand on the mouse, - So you were the one placing the targets? - Yeah. So like the robot with a computer vision provides a bunch of candidates and you kinda finalize the decision. - Right. The software engineers And so they actually provided an interface where you can essentially use a lasso tool and select a prime area and it will automatically in that region and automatically So that allows the human robot operator to select really good areas of brain and make dense applications the regions we think are gonna have the most high fidelity representations of finger movements and - I've seen like images of this. And for me, with OCD, it's for some reason a really pleasant, I think there's a subreddit - [Matthew] Yeah, love that subreddit. - It's oddly satisfying to avoiding the blood vessels like the usefulness of those It just feels good. It's like, ah. - As a person who has a visceral reaction to the brain bleeding, I can tell you it's extremely satisfying watching the electrodes and not cause bleeding. - Yeah, yeah. So you said the feeling was of relief when everything went perfectly. - Yeah. - How deep in the brain and eventually go, let's It seems the deeper you go in the brain, the more challenging it becomes. - Yeah, so talking broadly we can get anywhere. It's routine for me to put deep near the very bottom of the brain, entering from the top and passing about a two millimeter wire all the way into the bottom of the brain. And that's not revolutionary. A lot of people do that. And we can do that with I use a robot from several times a month. It's pretty routine. - What are your eyes in that situation? What are you seeing? What kind of technology where you are to light your way? - Yeah, so it's a cool You take a preoperative MRI that's extremely high resolution You put the patient to sleep, put their head in a frame that holds the skull very rigidly, and then you take a CT scan of their head while they're asleep with that frame on, and then merge the MRI You have a plan based on the MRI where you can see these You can't see them on CT, but if you trust the then you indirectly know And therefore, indirectly know where in reference to the titanium frame screwed to their head those targets are. And so this is '60s trajectories, given the and dial in some goofy with a manual actuators with The modern version of Just like a little KUKA arm, you might see it building This small robot arm can that you intended from the pre-op MRI and establish a very rigid holder through which you can drill and pass a small rigid wire that's hollow and put your electrode through that hollow wire and then remove all of So you end up with the electrode very, very precisely placed Now that's standard been out in the world for a while. Neuralink right now is focused surface targets because say, hundreds of wires without doing a lot of damage. So your question, what do you see? Well, I see an MRI on a screen. I can't see everything is passing through on its And so it's accepted with this approach that there's gonna be about who have a bleed somewhere in the brain as a result of passing that wire blindly into the deep part of the brain. That's not an acceptable We start from the position that we want this to be dramatically maybe two or three orders of Safe enough really that you or I, without a profound medical problem, might on our lunch break someday say, &quot;Yeah, sure, I'll get that. I'd be meaning to upgrade And so the safety constraints And so we haven't settled for arbitrarily approaching - It's interesting 'cause blood vessels somehow. Maybe there's creative ways like mapping out high resolution and then you can go in blind. But how do you map out that in a way that's like super stable? There's a lot of interesting - [Matthew] Yeah. - But there's a lot to do on the surface. Luckily. So we've got vision on the surface. We actually have made a sewing electrodes into the spinal cord as a potential workaround that would allow a brain-mounted implant to translate motor intentions that can effect muscle contractions in previously paralyzed arms and legs. - That's mind-blowing. That's just incredible. So like the effort there the brain to the spinal cord to the peripheral nervous system. So how hard is that to do? - We have that working in - That's amazing. - So similar to like with Noland, where he's able to here you're doing the but with the actual factors that you have. - Yeah. - [Lex] That's fascinating. - Yeah, so we have anesthetized and moving their legs in Again, early days, but the future is bright And people with paralysis should look forward to that bright future. They're gonna have options. - Yeah, and there's a lot or extra options where you like the arm, and to be The fingers and hands of - So skeletons are getting better too. - So skeletons. Yeah, so that goes hand in hand. Although I didn't quite understand until thinking about it deeply and doing more research about Neuralink, how much you can do on the digital side. So this digital telepathy, I didn't quite understand that you can really map the intention, as you described in the hand knob area, that you can map the intention. Just imagine it, think about it. That intention can be mapped to actual action in the digital world. And now more and more, so much can be done in the digital world to the outside world. It can allow you to have freedom, have independence if That's really powerful. Like you can go really far with that. - Yeah, our first He's breaking world - And he is having fun Just going back to the you mentioned to me offline, So you're like doing surgery all the time. - Yeah. - Maybe the ridiculous question, what does it take to get good at surgery? - Practice, repetitions. Same with anything else. There's a million ways of and selling books saying it, but you call it 10,000 spend some chunk of your life, some percentage of your obsessing about getting better at it. Repetitions, humility, recognizing at any stage along the way. Recognizing you've got improvements to make in your technique. Being open to feedback and coaching from people with a different And then just the constant That fortunately, if I think your patients bring that with them to the office visits every day. They force you to wanna - Yeah, to step up. I mean, it's a real human being, a real human being that you can help. - Yeah. even if it's the same exact surgery, is there a lot of variability between that surgery - Yeah, a fair bit. I mean, a good example for relative to the normal of the skull over hand knob I mean, some people and some people have really steeply angled skulls over that area. And that has consequences for in sort of the frame that we use and how the robot has Yeah, people's bodies as the people you see as much variability in body We see in brain anatomy and skull anatomy, there are some people who from our trial for having skulls that are too thick or too thin or scalp that's too thick or too thin. I think we have like the but you can't account for all - How much like mushiness 'cause taking biology classes, the diagrams are always Neuroscience, the pictures of neurons are always really nice and vary. But whenever I look at I don't know what is going on. - Yeah. are biological systems in reality? Like how hard is it to - Not too bad. Once you really get used to this, that's where experience really come into play is if it becomes easier to kind the, say, for instance, blood vessels that are obscuring the sulci and gyri, kind of the wrinkle pattern Occasionally, when you're and you open the skull, it doesn't match what you thought you were And with more experience, you that layer of blood vessels and see the underlying pattern and use that as a landmark - [Lex] The wrinkles are a landmark? So like- So I was describing hand knob earlier. That's a pattern of the It's sort of this sort of Greek letter, omega-shaped area of the brain. - So you could recognize Like if I show you a thousand brains and give you like one minute with each, you'd be like, &quot;Yep, that's that?&quot; - Sure. uniqueness to that area of the brain, like in terms of the geometry, - Yeah. - Where is it about in the- - So you have this strip of called the primary motor area. And I'm sure you've seen this laid over the surface of the brain, the weird little guy with That guy sort of lays with his legs up at the top of the brain and and then some kind of mouth, And so the hand is right in there. And then the areas that control speech, at least on the left side of the brain in most people are just below that. And so any muscle that you the vast majority of that or those intentions come And the wrinkle for hand knob is right in the middle of that. - And vision is back here. - Also, close to the surface? - Vision's a little deeper. And so this gets to your question about how deep can you get to do vision. We can't just do the surface of the brain. We have to be able to go in, not as deep as we have to go for DBS, but maybe a centimeter deeper than we're used to for hand insertions. And so that's work in progress. That's a new set of - By the way, you And I just saw a picture of that, and that thing looks terrifying. - [Matthew] Yeah, bed of nails. - It's because it's rigid. And then if you look at the What can you say that's interesting to you about the flexible, that kind of approach of the flexible threads to deliver the electrodes - Yeah, I mean, the goal I mean, we stand on that made Utah arrays and before we ever even came along. Neuralink arose, partly this approach to technology arose out after Utah arrays would fail routinely because the rigid electrodes, those spikes that are literally hammered using an air hammer into the brain, those spikes generate that encapsulates the electrode spikes in scar tissue essentially. And so one of the projects in the Andersen lab at was to see if you could use chemotherapy to prevent the formation of scar. Things are pretty bad when into the brain and then to try to prevent scar tissue. It's like, maybe we've Maybe there's a fundamental And so Neuralink's approach tiny electrodes avoids avoids a lot of the immune when rigid electrodes are And so what we see is and functionality and the immediately surrounding I mean, it goes on for years - What do most people not understand about the biology of the brain? We mention the vasculature. That's really interesting. - I think the most interesting is that it really does I mean, I don't know, for imagine you want a lever on fertility, you wanna be able to turn I mean, there are legitimate to modulate fertility, say blood pressure. You wanna modulate blood pressure. There are legitimate targets Things that aren't immediately are potentially solvable in the brain. And so I think it's an under-explored area for primary treatments of all the things that bother people. - That's a really fascinating Like there's a lot of have nothing to do with the brain, but they might just be symptoms of something that actually The actual source of the problem. The primary source is - Yeah, not always. I mean, kidney disease is real. But there are levers you that affect all of these systems. - There's knobs. - On-off switches and knobs in the brain, from which this all originates. Would you have a Neuralink - Yeah. I think use case right I can already do that. And so there's no value proposition. On safety grounds alone, sure. I'll do it tomorrow. - You say the use case of the mouse, is it after like researching all this and part of it is just watching If you can get that bits per second look really high with a mouse, like being able to interact, 'cause if you think about it, the way, on the smartphone, the way you swipe, that was transformational how It's subtle. You don't realize it, but and to scroll with your that changed everything. People were sure you There's a lot of HCI aspects to that that changed how we So there could be a certain that would change everything. - Yeah. to just click around a And that, I can see myself getting a Neuralink for much more rapid interaction - Yeah, I think recording might change things as well. The value proposition a keyboard is a pretty requires a lot of training. It's highly variable in that the average person can achieve. I think taking that out of the equation and just having a natural word to computer interface might change things for a lot of people. - It'd be hilarious if that Even if you have speech to text, that's extremely accurate, but say it gotten super accurate, it'd be hilarious if just so you avoid the like looking like a douche bag speaking to your phone in public, which is a real, like that's a real constraint. - Yeah. I mean, with a bone conducting case, that can be an invisible headphone, say, and the ability to think and have it respond to you, that starts to sound sort of like embedded super intelligence. If you can silently ask on any subject and have it read to you, without any observable change happening in the outside world, for one thing, standardized - Yeah. If it's done well in the I don't know if it transforms society, but it really can create a kind of shift in the way we interact in the way that a smartphone did. Just having to look into the I would totally try it to some like incredible it connects your vision or to some other, like it connects all over your brain. That could be like just You might have a lot of human-computer interaction possibilities. That's really interesting. - Yeah, and the technology is progressing at light speed here. I think there was a really Sergey Stavisky's lab that of speech decode. It was something like 125,000 words that they we're getting with - So you're just thinking the word? - Yeah. and you're able to get it? - Yeah. Like you have to have the - Right. - So like do the inner voice. Man, it's so amazing to me the signal mapping. All you have to do is just And if you get the feedback you can get really good at that. Like your brain will first of all adjust and you develop it like any other skill. Like touch typing, you develop To me, it's just really fascinating to be able to even to play with that. Honestly, like I would get a Neuralink just to be able to play with that. Just to play with the capacity, the capability of my It's like learning the skill of typing and learning the skill of moving a mouse. It's another skill of moving the mouse, not with my physical - I can't wait to see I feel like we're cavemen right now. We're like banging rocks with a stick and thinking that we're making music. At some point, when these there's gonna be the equivalent of a piano that someone can make art with their brain in a way that we didn't even anticipate. I'm looking forward to it. - Give it to like a teenager. Like anytime I think I'll always go to like, I don't know. Even with the bit per second you realize you give it to a teenager, you've given your link to a teenager, just the large number of them, the kind of stuff, they get good at stuff. They're gonna get like Even just with the current technology. - Probably. Probably. - 'Cause it's also addicting, the number go up aspect of it of like improving and training, 'cause it is almost like a skill. And plus, there's the that adapts to you. And especially if the becomes better and better and better, you're like learning together. - Yeah, we're scratching the There's so much more to do. - So on the complete other side of it, you have an RFID chip implanted in you. - Yeah. - Little subtle thing. - It's a passive device that you use for unlocking like a or what do you use it for? What's the story behind it? - I'm not the first one. There's this whole community that have done this stuff, and I think one of the private crypto wallet keys and whatever. I dabbled in that a bit - You have some bitcoin You can't tell where, yeah. - Yeah, actually, yeah. (Lex laughing) It was the modern day equivalent of finding change in the sofa cushions after I put some orphan crypto on there that I thought was worthless and forgot about it for a few years. Went back and found that some and had propped up the value of it. And so it had gone up 50 fold. - Wow. of change in those cushions. (Lex laughing) - That's hilarious. - But the primary use case was mostly as a tech demonstrator. It has my business card on it. You can scan that in by It opens the front door to my house, whatever simple stuff. - It's a cool step. It's a cool leap to implant I mean, perhaps, it's a because for a lot of of putting something inside inside a biological system is a big leap. - Yeah, we have a kind the barrier of our skin. We're completely fine hip replacements, dental implants. But there's a mysticism still around the inviable barrier that And I think that needs to be treated like any other pragmatic barrier. The question isn't, how incredible The question is, what - So from all the surgeries you done, from everything you understand the brain, how much does neuroplasticity How adaptable is the brain, for example, just even in the case or adapting to the post-surgery situation. - The answer that is sad for me and other people of my demographic is that plasticity decreases with age. Healing decreases with age. I have too much gray hair There are theoretical ways using electrical stimulation. Nothing that is totally proven out as a robust enough mechanism But yeah, I think there's that we might find something an implanted electrode Certainly, there's been recently from Nicholas and others who have a cohort of patients with moderate traumatic brain injury who have had electrodes placed in the deep nucleus in the brain called the centromedian nucleus or just near central media nucleus. And when they apply small to that part of the brain, it's almost like electronic caffeine. They're able to improve They're able to improve how I think in one case, someone after the device was turned on, And that's sort of one of the holy grails for me with Neuralink and is from a purely utilitarian standpoint, can we make people able and their families economically again? Can we make it so someone and even maybe requires a can we put them in a position taking care of themselves, I think that's a very and what motivates a lot of what I do and what a lot of the people - It's just a cool possibility that if you put a Neuralink in like the other part of - Yeah. The capacity of the brain to Probably unknown to the degree but you're now connecting especially once it's doing stimulation, like the biological brain outside of it working together. Like the possibilities there It's still unknown but interesting. It feels like the brain is really good at adapting to whatever. - Yeah. it is a system that by itself is already, like everything serves a purpose and so you don't wanna - Yeah, it's like, eliminating a species from an ecology. You don't know what the and dependencies are. The brain is certainly a And we don't know every of a single change that we make. - Do you see yourself surgeries of P2, P3, P4, P5? Just more and more and more humans. - I think it's a certain or a failure on the company's side if we need me to do all the surgeries. I think something that I would very much like to work towards is a and so robust on the surgery side that literally anyone could do it. We wanna get away from or intense experience to and make it as simple and I mean, I would love it if had no problem doing this. I think we're probably far that would allow people to do this, but not impossible. - All right, I'll sign up for that. Did you ever anthropomorphize Like do you give it a name? Do you see it as like a friend, as like working together with you? - I mean, to a certain degree it's- - Or anatomy who's gonna get the gap. - To a certain degree, yeah, - All the good relationships are. - It's funny when, in the there's a part of it where I stand basically shoulder to And so if you're in the room that's my brother in arms there. We're working together Yeah, I'm not threatened by it. - Keep telling yourself that. (laughs) How have all the surgeries that the people you've helped and the stakes, the high stakes that you've mentioned, how has that changed your - Yeah. It gives you a very visceral sense, and this makes sound trite, but it gives you a very visceral sense that death is inevitable. On one hand, you are, as a neurosurgeon, you're deeply involved in these like just hard to fathom tragedies: young parents dying, leaving And on the other hand, it takes the sting out of it a bit because you see how just mind There's zero chance that I know techno optimists right now and longevity buffs right now would disagree on that 0.0% estimate. But I don't see any chance that our generation is going to avoid it. Entropy is a powerful force, and we are very ornate, that aren't up to the that we're subjected to. So on the one hand, every human that has ever On the other hand, it's just to imagine inflicting on anyone that you love is having them gone. I'm sure you've had friends and it's hard to even think about them. And so I wish I had arrived where death doesn't have a sting. I'm not worried about it, that I'm comfortable If not, having found out how when I think about my or me not having them or my wife. - Maybe I have come to accepting intellectual certainty of that comes with losing I don't think I've come to understand the existential aspect of it. Like that this is gonna end. And I don't mean like in some trite way. I mean like, it certainly feels Like you live life like - [Matthew] Right. - And the fact that this light that's shining this consciousness is going to no longer be, it fills me when I really am able to load all that in with Like it's a real fear. I think people aren't always honest with how terrifying it is. I think the more you are able to really think through it, It's not such a simple thing. Oh well, it's the way life is. If you really can load that in, it's hard. But I think that's why the stoics did it, because it like helps you and be like, well, the moment, every single moment you're And it's terrifying that it's gonna end, like almost like you're a child helpless, this kind of feeling. And then it makes you, when you have the safety, when you have the love I feel like sometimes, in your position, when you mentioned it might make you not be able to see that, the finiteness of life, because if you kept looking So it's good to know that you're kind of still struggling with that, that there's the neurosurgeon And the human is still and feel the fear of that - Yeah, it definitely of how long, how many And not say, &quot;I can't do this anymore.&quot; But I mean, you said it well. I think it gives you an that you're alive today. And I've got three kids and I'm really happy. Things are good. I get to help on a project I think it moves us forward. I'm a very lucky person. - It's the early steps of a potentially gigantic leap for humanity. It's a really interesting one. And it's cool 'cause like you, you read about all this stuff in history where it's like the early days. I've been reading, before I would read about explorers even the Amazon jungle for the first time. Those are the early steps. Or early steps into space, early steps in any discipline, in physics and mathematics. And it's cool 'cause this these are the early steps into delving deep into the human brain. So not just observing the brain, but be able to interact It's gonna help a lot of people, but it also might help us understand what the hell's going on in there. - Yeah, I think ultimately, more levers that they can pull, right? Like you wanna give people options. If you can give someone on how happy they are, I think that makes people But now, talk about major Talk about people that at an alarming rate in this country. And try to justify that queasiness in that light of you to take away suicidal I would give them that knob. I don't know how you - Yeah, you can think about like all the suffering that's Like every single human being that's suffering right now, it'll be a glowing red dot. The more suffering, the more it's glowing. And you just see the and any technology that of suffering on a grand because there's a lot of people suffering and most of them suffer quietly. We look away too often, and we should remember 'cause once again, most of - Well, and on a grander people have a lot of complaints about how our social fabric is working or not working, how our politics Those things are made in aggregate, right? Like our politics is with human brains and, the is potentially tunable in say remove our addictive behaviors or tune our addictive or our addiction to outrage, the most angry political I don't think that leads And if you had options for people to moderate there could be huge benefits to society. Maybe we could all work together a little more harmoniously - There's a sweet spot, you don't wanna completely of human nature 'cause those to make the whole thing work. But there's a sweet spot. - Yeah, I agree. We gotta suffer a little, just not so much that you lose hope. - Yeah. We knew all the surgeries you've done. Have you seen consciousness in there ever? Was there like a glowing light? - I have this sense that I never found it. Never removed it, like a I have this sense that than our instincts wanna claim it is. It seems to me like a useful what consciousness is in the brain, is that we have a really of what it means to, say, touch your skin and know what's being touched. I think consciousness is just that level of sensory mapping applied to the thought processes So what I'm saying is consciousness is the sensation of some part So you feel it working. You feel the part of your brain that thinks of red things or the taste of coffee. You feel those parts of the way that I'm feeling my And that sensory system is consciousness. - That's so brilliant. It's the same way, it's when you're touching a thing. Consciousness is the sensation of you feeling your brain working, your brain perceiving. - Which isn't like a or some quantum field effect, right? It's nothing magical. People always wanna something truly different. And there's this awesome long history of people looking at whatever the latest discovery in physics is because it's the most magical, the most out there thing And people always wanna do I don't think that's necessary. It's just a very useful and gratifying way of - And as we said, it's - [Matthew] Yeah. - Everything we see around everything that's beautiful, it came from brains like these. - It's all electrical activity - And I, for one, am grateful that are exploring all and all the ways it can be made better. - Thanks, Lex. - Thank you so much for talking today. - It's been a joy. Thanks for listening to this conversation with Matthew MacDougall. And now, dear friends, Brain Interface Software You told me that you've with spinal cord injuries or with ALS and that your motivation is grounded in wanting to help them. Can you describe this motivation? - Yeah. First, just a thank you to all the people I've gotten a chance to speak with, for sharing their stories with me. I don't think there's any share their stories as But just I think to summarize what I hear over and over or severe spinal cord injury in a place where they basically can't really at the end of the day And that can mean different For some folks, it can mean to communicate again to wear something on their face, to be able to put For some folks, it can mean to work again, to be able to efficiently enough to to be able to support themself, and ultimately be able to support themself after their family maybe to take care of them. And for some folks, it's as simple as just being able to respond before they run away or get And these are deeply personal and sort of very human problems. And what strikes me again and again when talking with these folks is that this is actually an engineering problem. This is a problem that with the right team, we can And at the end of the day, I think that's a deeply inspiring message and something that makes me - So it's both an engineering problem in terms of a BCI, for example, that can give them capabilities where they can interact with the world. But also on the other side, for the rest of the world for people living with quadriplegia. - Yeah, and actually, sort of lens on this for a second. I think I'm very in favor of anyone working in this problem space. So beyond BCI, I'm happy and excited and willing to support any way I can folks working on eye tracking systems, working on speech to text systems, working on head trackers or And I've met many engineers and folks in the community And I think for the people it doesn't matter what the as long as the problem is solved. And I wanna emphasize that there can be many solutions out there that can help with these problems. And BCI is one of a So BCI, in particular, I think offers several advantages here. And I think the folks that are usually the people who or some form of paralysis. Usually, you don't have to explain to them why this might be something It's usually pretty self-evident. But for the rest of us with severe spinal cord injury or who don't know somebody with ALS, it's not often obvious why to be able to connect And it's surprisingly nuanced, and to the degree that just working with Noland in the first Neuralink clinical trial in his words why this And it's a nuanced topic. It can be the case that the same thing, for when navigating a computer, to that mouse stick every He only has access when to put it in front of him. And so a BCI can really offer a level of independence and autonomy that if it wasn't literally it'd be hard to achieve in any other way. - So there's a lot of fascinating aspects to what it takes to get Noland to be able to control a cursor on You texted me something that I just love. You said, &quot;I was part of the team that interviewed and selected P1. I was in the operating room during the first human surgery monitoring live signals I work with the user basically every day to develop new UX paradigm's And I was part of the how to recover useful BCI to new world record levels when the signal quality degraded.&quot; We'll talk about I think but just zooming out, what was it like to be part of that team I would say, historic first? - Yeah, I think for me, this is something I've been excited about for close to 10 years now. And so to be able to be of making it a reality A couple maybe special moments that I'll never really truly forget, one of them is during the actual surgery, at that point in time, I I know his family. And so I think the initial is rolled into the operating room is just a &quot;oh shit&quot; kind of reaction. But at that point, muscle memory kicks in and you sort of go into, you let your body just do all the talking. And I have the lucky job in to just be in charge of So my job is to sit there, to look at the signals to look at the live brain as threads are being and just to basically observe and make sure that nothing is going wrong or that there's no red that we need to go and investigate or pause the surgery to debug. And because I had that of the surgery, I had a than I think most folks in the room. I got to sit there and think to myself, &quot;Wow, that brain is moving a lot.&quot; When you look into the that we stick the threads in, one thing that most people don't The brain moves a lot when you breathe, when your heart beats, and So that's something that I and very, very exciting to be who you physically know and actually pulsing and - And they use that brain and now it's right there moving. - Yep. that in terms of the thread sending, so the Neuralink implant and one thread at a time, you're able to start seeing the signal? - Yeah. you test that the thing is working? - Yeah, so actually in the operating room, right after we sort of finished I started collecting what's So broadband is basically of signal you can collect It's essentially a measurement of the local field potential or the, yeah, the voltage essentially measured by that electrode. And we have a certain that allows us to visualize So it visualizes sort of where, in the broadband symbol, and it's very, very raw form of the data a neuron is actually spiking. And so one of these moments as part of this whole clinical trial is seeing live in the operating room, while he's still under anesthesia, beautiful spikes being just streaming live to a - So this is no signal and then the signals you're seeing the spikes detected? - [Bliss] Right, yeah. - And that's a UX too because- - That looks beautiful as well. - During that procedure, there was actually a lot So they also were curious There's several neurosurgeons in the room who are all just excited to and they're all crowded watching this live brain - What was that like seeing the robot do some of the surgery? So the computer vision all the spots that avoid the blood vessels and then obviously with then actually doing the connection of the threads to the brain. - That's a good question. My answer's gonna be pretty I've seen it so many times. Yeah, that's exactly how You want it to be boring, because I've seen it so many times. I've seen the robot do the surgery literally hundreds of times, and so it was just one more time. - Yeah, all the practice and this is just another day. - Yep. - So what about when Noland woke up? Do you remember a moment where he was able to move the but get signal from the brain such that it was able to show - Yeah, yeah. So we are quite excited to and Noland was really, really He wanted to get started but we waited till the next So a long night. And the next morning in the he wanted to get started and what kind of signal we can And maybe for folks who are not familiar with the Neuralink system, we or the Neuralink implant So the motor cortex is responsible for representing things like motor intent, sort of if you imagine that kind of signal representation would be present in the motor cortex. If you imagine moving or wiggling a pinky, this sort of signal can be present in the motor cortex. So one of the ways we what kind of signal do we in any particular individual's brain is through this task called body mapping. And body mapping is where a visual to the user and you say, &quot;Hey, imagine doing this.&quot; And that visual is a 3D or index finger modulating up and down. And you ask the user to imagine that, and obviously, you can't see them do this, 'cause they're paralyzed actually move their arm, you can record neural activity, and you can basically can I predict or can I corresponding with And so we did that task and we realized, hey, there's actually some modulation associated with some of his hand motion, which was the first indication that, okay, we can potentially use that modulation to do useful things in the world. For example, control a computer cursor. And he started playing with it, the first time we showed him it, and we actually just of his brain activity and And we said, &quot;Hey, you We're not you. You're able to imagine different things, and we know that it's so you figure out for us what that is actually representing.&quot; And so he played with it for a bit. He was like, &quot;I don't quite get it yet.&quot; He played for a bit longer. And he said, &quot;Oh, when I move this finger, I see this particular And I said, okay, &quot;Prove it, do it again.&quot; And so he said, &quot;Okay, And the minute he moved, you this neuron is firing - single neuron. I can tell you the exact channel number if you're interested. It's stuck in my brain now forever. But that single channel firing that it was behaved really that could then be used like decoding a computer cursor. - And when you say single channel, is that associated with - Yeah, channel electrode - And there's 1,024 of those? - 1,024, yeah. - That's incredible that that works. When I was learning about all it was just blowing my you can visualize yourself that can turn into a signal, and the fact that you and visualize the cursor moving or have the intention of the cursor moving and that leading to a signal that can then be used to move the cursor, there is so many exciting things there to learn about the brain, the very fact of their existing signal that can be used is really powerful. But it feels like that's of figuring out how that really, really effectively. I should also just, there's so many fascinating details here, but you mentioned the body mapping step. At least in the version I saw there's like a super nice interface, like a graphical interface. But like it just felt like 'cause it like, you know, I guess it visualizes you moving the hand. And there's very like a Hello. I don't know if there's a voice component, but it just felt like when you wake up in a really nice video at the beginning of that video game. &quot;This is what you're supposed to do.&quot; It's cool. - No, I mean, the future - But it's not easy to pull that off. I mean, it needs to be - Yeah, and I think the is underrated for BCI There's a whole interaction effect between the ways in which you visualize an instruction to the user and the kinds of signal you can get back. And that quality of sort of to the neural signal is a function of how good you are at expressing to the user what you want them to do. And so yeah, we spend a lot of how we build our applications, of how the decoder actually functions, the control surfaces it All these little details matter a lot. - So maybe it'd be nice to get of what the signal looks like and what the decoding looks like. So there's a N1 implant 1,024 electrodes and that's What does that signal look like, and what are the different before it's transmitted, all that kind of stuff? - Yeah, yep. This is gonna be a fun one. Let's go. So maybe before diving into what we do, it's worth understanding because that dictates a for the system that we build. And what we're trying to measure is really individual neurons And action potential like a little electrical impulse that you can detect if And by being close enough, let's say 100 microns of that cell. And 100 microns is a And so the number of neurons with any given electrode is just a small radius And the other thing worth understanding about the underlying biology here is that when neurons the width of that action potential So from the start of the that whole width of that sort of a neuron firing is And if you want to detect is occurring or not, you or sample the local full much more frequently You need to sample many, to be able to detect that this is actually the characteristic waveform of a neuron producing an action potential. And so we sample across about 20,000 times a second. 20,000 times a second means we've already given We have about 20 samples that tell us what that exact shape of that And once we've sort of the underlying electrical we can process that signal into just where do we detect a sort of a binary signal one or zero. Do we detect a spike in And we do that because the sort of subspace of neural activity is just when are spikes occurring. Essentially, everything that we care about for decoding can be in the frequency meaning how often are spikes firing in any given window of time. And so that allows us to of compression from this very to something that's much, much more sparse and compressible that can be like a Bluetooth - Quick tangents here. You mentioned electrode neuron. There's a local neighborhood How difficult is it to like isolate from where the spike came from? - Yeah, so there's a whole neuroscience work on exactly this problem, of basically given a single electrode or given a set of electrodes how can you sort of sort, spike sort which spikes are And this is a problem that's because you care about it for in the underlying sort of If you care about understanding how the brain's representing information, how that's evolving through time, then that's a very, very For sort of the at least at the current scale, if the number of neurons per you can get away with basically ignoring that problem completely. You can think of it like of neurons to electrodes, and there may be in some cases more than one neuron per electrode. But if that number is small enough, those signals can be thought of as sort of a union of the two. And for many applications, trade off to make and can And as you sort of the relevance of distinguishing becomes less important, because and you can start to rely or covariance structure in when that channel's firing, what does that actually represent? 'Cause you know that when in concert with these other 50 channels, that means move left. But when that same channel's with these other 10 channels, - Okay, so you have to do on board, and you have to so fast and not use too much power, 'cause you don't wanna be So it has to be a super - [Bliss] Yeah. - Is there some wisdom you can share about what it takes to overcome that challenge? - Yeah, so we've tried of basically turning this raw signal into sort of a feature that you And I'll say that I don't think we're at the final step of this process. This is a long journey. We have something that but there can be many in the future that are much better than what we do right now. So some versions of what we do right now, and there's a lot of academic so I don't wanna claim Neuralink ideas or anything like that. But one of these ideas a sort of like a convolutional that slides across the signal and looks for a certain And that template consists the spike modulates, how much it recovers, and what the duration that the whole process takes. And if you can see in the is matched within certain bounds, then you can say, &quot;Okay, that's a spike.&quot; One reason that approach is that you can actually implement that extremely efficiently in hardware, which means that you across 1,024 channels all at once. Another approach that we've and this can be combined with something called spike band power. And the benefits of that approach are that you may be able to that are maybe too far away because the farther away the weaker that actual spike waveform will look like on that electrode. So you might be able to pick up population level activity maybe slightly outside the what neuroscientists of activity, the other and you can look at sort how that sort of background and you might be able to get more juice out of the signal that way. But it comes at a cost. That signal is now a floating which means it's more expensive It means you have to find that are different than what you can apply to binary signals. So there's a lot of different challenges associated with these - So also, in terms of communication, you're limited by the - [Bliss] Yeah. - And also, because you're currently using the Bluetooth protocol, you But you have to also do this Like crazy low. Anything to say about the latency? - Yeah, this is a passion project of mine, so I wanna build the I don't wanna build like the, you know, the Chevrolet Spark or I wanna build like the Tesla And I really do think it's quite possible that within 5 to 10 years, that most eSports by people with paralysis. This is like a very real One is that they'll have to play video games effectively. The second is they have the time to do so. So those two factors together are particularly potent - Unless people without paralysis are also allowed to implant. - (laughs) Right. - Which is, it is another way to interact with a digital device. And there's something to that, if it's a fundamentally more efficient experience. Even if it's not like some kinda full on high bandwidth communication, if it's just the ability to like the bits per second, if I can achieve a bits per second, that 10x, what I can do with the mouse, that's a really interesting especially as you get really - It's definitely the case that you have a higher because you don't have through your arm, through your muscle. You get just, by nature of like 75 millisecond that you're actually trying to take. And there's some nuance to this, like there's evidence you can sort of plan so you may not get that But for sort of like where you just wanna, somebody's over here, snipe You actually do have just 'cause you don't need So the question is, just how And we're already than if you're going through muscle and we're in the early stage of that. I think we can push it latency right now from brain it's about 22 milliseconds. If you think about the the best gaming mice, that's of latency, depending on how you measure. Depending how fast your screen refreshes, there's a lot of characteristics But yeah, and the rough in the brain to actually impact your command of your hand So if you look at those numbers, you can see that we're and slightly faster than what you'd get by actually moving your hand. And this is something that, when he moved the cursor we asked him about this. This was something I like what does it feel like a click intention or when the cursor to the right. He said it moves before he is which is kind of a surreal I would love to experience myself one day. What is that like to have that so fluid that it feels like it's happening before you're actually - Yeah, I suppose we've that natural latency that happens. So is the currently the so like the Bluetooth communication, what's the actual bottleneck? I mean, there's always What's the current bottleneck? - Yeah, a couple things. So kind of hilariously, has some restrictions on how So the protocol itself of the most frequent sort are on the order of 7.5 milliseconds. And as we push latency down to the level of sort of individual that level of resolution, is gonna become a limiting Another sort of important nuance to this is that it's not just the Neuralink itself that's part of this equation. If you start pushing latency of how fast screens refresh, Like you need your whole system as the sort of limits of what Like you need the screen like 120 hertz just doesn't work anymore if you're trying to have something respond at something that's at the - That's a really cool challenge. I also like that for a T-shirt, the best mouse in the world. Tell me on the receiving now we figured out what the spikes are, we got them all together, now we're sending that over to the app. What's the decoding step look like? - Yeah, so maybe first, what is decoding? I think there's probably that just have no clue what it means to decode brain activity. - Actually, even if we what is the app? So there's an implant that's with any digital device So maybe can you tell me a what the software is outside of the brain? - Yeah, so maybe working the goal is to help in this case Noland, be able to navigate his And we think the best way to do that is to offer them the to navigate our software to rebuild an entire software At least not yet. Maybe someday you can imagine there's UXs that are built natively for BCI. But in terms of what's I think most people would prefer mouse and keyboard inputs that they wanna use for their daily jobs, for communicating with And so the job of the application is really to translate of brain data coming off the implant into control of the computer. And we do that by essentially building a mapping from brain activity to the actual hardware. So HID is just the protocol for communicating like So for example, move or press this key down. And so that mapping is fundamentally what the app is responsible for. But there's a lot of nuance that we spend a lot of and we're still in the early to figure out how to do that optimally. So one part of that process is decoding. So decoding is this process of taking the statistical that's being channeled across to the application and turning it into, for example, a mouse movement. And that decoding step, in a couple different parts. So similar to any there's a training step and The training step in our behavioral process where the user has to imagine doing different actions. So for example, they'll with a cursor on it and they'll be asked to push that cursor to the right. Then imagine pushing that push it down, and we can or using any sort of modern ML method, a mapping of given this brain data and that imagined behavior And then at test time, you take that same In our case, it's a deep neural network, and you run it and you of brain data coming off by pattern matching to what and you use that for a Now, a couple like sort of rabbit holes that are I think are quite interesting, one of them has to do with how you build that best template matching system because there's a variety and also debugging challenges when you're working with Because again, fundamentally, you don't observe what You can't see them attempt And so you have to figure out to do something and validate such that then you can the mapping between the neural spikes and the intended action. And by doing the action correctly, what I really mean is at of what neurons are doing. So if in ideal world, of behavioral intent that at the scale of sort of then with high confidence, from my neuro spikes to But the challenge is, again, that you don't observe what And so there's a lot of nuance to how you build user experiences that give you more than on average correct representation of what the user's intending to do. If you want to build you really want it to be You want it to be able to do exactly what the user's intending along the way, not just when you're trying to move And building a behavioral or sort of software experience of resolution is what we - So the calibration process, the interface has to encourage precision, meaning like whatever it does, it should be super intuitive the human is going to likely that you need and only that intention. And you don't have any feedback except that may be what they actually did. You can't, &quot;Oh yeah.&quot; - So that's fundamentally, that is a really exciting UX challenge, 'cause that's all on the UX. It's not just about being - Yeah. - User experience is how it works. - It's how it works. - For the calibration, and calibration, at least is like fundamental to and not just calibration but continued calibration essentially. - [Bliss] Yeah. - Wow, yeah. that I think is worth You said it's primarily a UX challenge, and I think a large component of it is, but there is also a very interesting machine learning challenge here, which is given some data set, including some on average correct behavior of asking the user to move right, move left, and given a data set of neural spikes, is there a way to infer in or entirely unsupervised way what that high resolution And if you think about because there are enough enough constraints on your with the right sort of formulation to let the model figure out itself. For example, at this millisecond, this is exactly how hard And at this millisecond, this is how hard they're trying to push upwards. - It's really important to So like the problem becomes much harder from the machine learning perspective if the labels are noisy. - [Bliss] That's correct. - And then to get the clean - Correct, although clean labels, I think maybe it's worth I think any given labeling strategy will have some number about what the user's attempting to do. Those assumptions can be or they can be formulated that you might use to just try to estimate or guesstimate what the And what really matters is how accurate are those assumptions. For example, you might say, &quot;Hey, user, push upwards and follow the speed of this cursor,&quot; and your heuristic might be exactly what that cursor's trying to do. Another competing heuristic might be they're actually trying at the beginning of the movement and slightly slower at the end. And those competing heuristics reflections of what the Another version of the task might be, &quot;Hey, user, imagine moving So rather than follow the cursor, just try to move it exactly So here's the cursor, here's the target. Okay, cursor disappears. Try to move that now invisible cursor 200 pixels to the right. And the assumption in that can actually modulate but that position offset assumption might be a weaker potentially you can make it more accurate than these heuristics that at each millisecond what So you can imagine different tasks that make different of the user intention and is what I would think of as a clean label. - For that step, what are we There's a cursor and you to the right or the left or up and down or maybe move them by a certain offset. So that's one way, is that the So for example, an alternative crazy way that probably is playing a role here is a game like Webgrid, where you're just getting a the person playing a game, where if they're in a state of flow, maybe you can get clean - [Bliss] Yep. - Is that not an effective - Yeah, great question. There's a lot to unpack there. So the first thing I between a sort of open So open loop, what I mean by that is the user is sort of They have no model at all, and they're trying to get to the place where they have some In that setup, you really that gives the user a hint such that you can build this mapping again from brain data to output. Then once they have a model, using that model and and figuring out the right and then retraining on that data to give you sort of a There's a lot of challenges associated with both of these techniques into both of 'em, if you're interested. But the sort of challenge is that the user themself doesn't get proprioceptive feedback They don't necessarily perceive themself or feel the mouse under their hand when they're using an open, when they're trying to do They're being asked to perform something. Like imagine if you sort of and you stuck it in a box So you had no visual feedback and you had no proprioceptive feedback about what the position or And now you're asked, okay, that's moving from left to And you basically can whatever that imagined that's moving the cursor But in any situation, and maybe inconsistent And so that's sort of the fundamental challenge of open loop. The challenge with closed loop is that, once the user's given a model, and they're able to start they're going to very And that co-adaptation what they're doing, and the user learning how to use the model may sort of global minima. And maybe that your first or maybe just had some like quirk, like if there's some like that didn't cover super well, because they're a They figured out the right or the right angle they to get it to work. And they'll get it to work great, but then the next day, they and maybe they don't remember exactly all the tricks that they And so there's a complicated that can emerge and can make it a very, very difficult debugging process. - Okay, there's a lot of really Yeah, actually, just to I've seen situations, watching psychology grad students. They use piece of software how to program themselves. They use piece of software and it has a bunch of bugs. And they figure out like, and they've been using it for years. They figured out ways to work around it. Oh, that just happens. Like nobody like considers They just adapt. And that's a really interesting notion, that we were really good at that might not be the optimal. Okay, so how do you solve that problem? Do you have to restart from scratch every once in a while kind of thing? - Yeah, it's a good question. First and foremost, I would say this is not a solved problem. And for anyone who's listening in academia who works on BCIs, I would that's solved by simply Maybe that can help and you can get sort of richer covariance structures that you can use to exploit when trying to come up with But if you're interested in problems, that aren't gonna be solved inherently by scaling channel account, Yeah, so how do you solve it? It's not a solved problem. That's the first thing I The second thing is, any solution is going to become a very And one of my sort of general what prompts to tackle is that's gonna be the easiest to debug, 'cause if you can do that, even if the ceiling is to move faster because you have a tighter iteration loop debugging the problem. And in the open loop setting, there's not a feedback cycle debug with the user in the loop. And so there's some reason to think that that should be an The other thing that's worth understanding is that even in a closed loop setting, there's no special software what the user is truly attempting to do. In the closed loop setting, the cursor on the screen, they different than what your So what the model is that you can use to retrain to improve the model further. You still have this very or unsupervised problem of figuring out what is the true user intention And so the open loop problem of being easy to debug. And the second nice property of, it has all the same as the closed loop scenario. Another thing I wanna mention and call out is that this problem in order to give useful control to people. Even today with the solutions we have now and that academia has the level of control that can be given to a user today is quite useful. It doesn't need to be solved to get to that level of control. But again, I wanna build I wanna make it so good that it's not even a And to build the world's best you really need to nail that problem. And a couple maybe details that we've done internally that to understand when thinking the first is that even when of what the user's trying to do, and you can get this with a monkey that has a and moving a mouse to control a computer, even with that ground truth dataset, it turns out that the to produce high performance BCI is not just the direct You can imagine building dataset of what's going on in the brain and what is the mouse And it turns out that from neuro spikes to predict exactly what the mouse is doing, worse than a model that sort of higher level assumptions about what the user might be trying to do. For example, assuming to go in a straight line to the target, it turns out that making those assumptions is actually more effective in producing a model the underlying hand movement. - So the intention, not like the physical - Yeah. a really strong correlation but the intention is a more - [Bliss] Right. - Well, that's also super interesting. I mean, the intention because yes, with the BCI here, in this case, with a digital telepathy, you're acting on the which is why there's an experience of like feeling like it's happening before you meant for it to happen. That is so cool. And that is why you could achieve like superhuman performance problem in terms of the control of the mouse. So for open loop, just to clarify, so whenever the person is tasked to like move the mouse to the right, you said there's not feedback so they don't get to get that satisfaction of like actually getting - You could imagine giving but it's difficult, because at this point, you don't know what So what can you show them a signal of I'm doing this So let's take this very specific example. Like maybe your calibration to move the cursor a So your instructions to the user are, &quot;Hey, the cursor's here. Now, when the cursor disappears, imagine moving it 200 to the right to be over this target.&quot; In that kind of scenario, with some sort of consistency to the user of, &quot;Okay, I looks like on average when you Maybe I can produce some sort of how likely is that to given the latest trial or And that could give the of how consistent are they You could also imagine that with that kind of consistency metric, that maybe they just become more behaviorally engaged to begin with because the task is kind of boring when you don't have any feedback at all. And so there may be benefits of showing something on the screen, even if it's not accurate, the user motivated to try to increase that number or push it upwards. - So there's a psychology element here. - Yeah, absolutely. - And again, all of that is UX challenge. How much signal drift is there, week to week, month to month? How often do you have to recalibrate because of the signal drift? - Yeah, so this is a both with NHP, non-human primates, and then also with Noland Maybe the first thing that's worth stating is what the goal is here. So the goal is really to enable the user to have a plug and play experience where I guess they don't but a play experience where they can use the device whenever they want And that's really what we're aiming for. And so there can be a set of solutions that get to that state without considering this non-stationary problem. So maybe the first solution is that they can recalibrate This is something that Noland So he can recalibrate the system at 2:00 AM in the middle of the night, without his caretaker or to help push a button for him. The other important part when you have a good model calibrated, that you can continue using that without needing to recalibrate it. So how often he has to do depends really on his We observe sort of a of how well any individual model works, but this can be mitigated behaviorally by the user adapting It can also be mitigated of sort of software features For example, we let how fast the cursor is moving. We call that the gain, for example, the gain of how fast the cursor reacts to any given input intention. They can also adjust the smoothing, how smooth the output of that They can also adjust the friction, which is how easy is it And all these software tools of flexibility and to be able to solve this problem for themselves. all of this is done by looking to the right side of the screen, selecting the mixer, - It's like DJ mode. DJ mode for your VCI. - So I mean, it's a really It's really, really well done. And so yeah, there's that bias that Noland talked about in a stream, although he said that you with it with him and then So that could have been just a snapshot of that particular But he said that there and this bias that I guess looking to the the left side of the screen - Yeah, yeah. action I guess to adjust the bias. - Yeah, so this is actually an idea that comes out of academia. There are some prior work clinical trial participants this idea of bias correction. The way we've done it I think is, yeah, it's very prototized, very beautiful user experience where the user can essentially flash the cursor over to and it opens up a window sort of adjust or tune exactly So bias maybe, for people is just sort of what is the default motion of the cursor if you're imagining nothing. And it turns out that sort of qualia of the that's impacted by neuro non-stationarity. - Quality off the cursor experience. - I don't know how else to describe it. I'm not the guy moving- - It's very poetic, I love it. The quality of the cursor experience. Yeah, I mean, it sounds poetic but it is deeply true. There is an experience, it is a joyful, a really And when it doesn't work well, it's a very frustrating experience. That's actually the art of UX. It's like you have the or the possibility to give them joy, - And at the end of the day, that UX is how the thing works. And so it's not just like it's also what control surfaces does a decode provide the user? Like we want them to feel not like some like minivan, right? And that really truly is Noland himself is an F1 fan, so we refer to ourself as a pit crew. He really is truly the F1 driver, and there's different control surfaces that different kinds of cars And we take a lot of inspiration how the cursor should behave.. And what maybe one nuance of this is, even details like when you move a mouse on a MacBook track pad, of how that input that translates to cursor movement is different than how it works with a mouse. When you move on the track pad, there's a different response function, a different curve to how much to the computer than when you And that's because somebody when they're designed to any computer and they how it feels to use And now we're designing of this input system to a via the brain, and there's Again, you don't feel you don't feel the keys and you want a control surface and intuitive for the user to understand the state of the system and how to achieve what And ultimately, the end goal it fades into the background. It becomes something that's that it's subconscious to the user, and they just should feel direct control over the cursor. It just does what they want it to do. They're not thinking of how to make it do It's just doing what they want it to do. - Is there some kind of things along the lines of like Fitts' law where you should move the that maximizes your I don't even know what I'm asking, but I'm hoping the will land on a profound answer. No, is there some kind of understanding of the laws of UX when of somebody using their Like that's different - I think we're in the early stages of discovering those to have solved that problem yet. But there's definitely that make it easier for And it's pretty straightforward but it takes a while to when you're in the process of debugging the stuff in the trenches. One of those things is that you build has some number of errors, and it matters how those errors translate to the downstream user experience. For example, if you're in your photos, if you and it pulls up a photo maybe that's not a big deal is not that high. In a different scenario where you're trying to or something like this and to court because of some then the errors make a lot You wanna be very thoughtful about how those errors translate The same is true in BCI. So for example, if you're building a model that's decoding a velocity versus an output where the left click, for example. These have sort of different trade-offs of how precise you need to be before it becomes useful to the end user. For velocity, it's okay because the output of the model So if the user's trying and they're currently in position B, they're trying to navigate over time to get between those two points. And as long as the output of the model is on average correct, through time with the user They can get to the The same is not true of a click. For a click, you're at the scale of neurons firing. And so you want to be very because a false click can be They might accidentally close to do something and They might accidentally like hit some Send button on some text that it's only like half-composed So there's different associated with errors in this space. And part of the UX design is understanding how to build a solution still useful to the end user. - It's so fascinating that assigning cost to every action when an error occurs. So every action, if an error and incorporating that into how mapping it to the action I didn't quite until you said it realize there's a cost to like It's like very expensive cost. It's super annoying if you accidentally, like if you're a cursor, every once in a while, And the worst part of it is, usually, when the user's trying to click, because they're over the and they're getting ready to click, which means that in the data it's the case that sort of low speeds or desire to hold still. It's correlated with when the - Wow, that is really fascinating. - It's also not the case. People think that, &quot;Oh, a This must be super easy to decode.&quot; Well, yes it is, but the bar is so much higher for it to become a useful thing for the user, and there's ways to solve this. I mean, you can sort of take well, let's just give the like, let's take five seconds to click. Let's take a huge window of time so it can be very But again, world's best mouse. The world's best mouse or 500 milliseconds to click. It takes five milliseconds And so if you're aiming then you really wanna solve - So maybe this is a how to measure performance, Can you like explain Maybe a good place to start is to talk about Webgrid as a game, as a good illustration of the - Yeah, maybe I'll take which is just explaining why So again, our goal is to to control the computer as well as I can and hopefully better. And that means that they can do it at the same speed as what I can do. It means that they have access to all the same functionality that I have, including all those little command space, all this stuff. They need to be able to and with the same level of reliability as what I can do with my muscles. And that's a high bar. And so we intend to measure and quantify every aspect of that to understand how we're progressing towards that goal. There's many ways to This isn't the only way, a creative targets, and basically, we compute a score which and accurate they can select, and then how small are the targets. And the more targets the smaller they are, the more information And so if you think about point of view, you can communicate across different information And one such channel is a typing interface you could imagine that's just like a software And bits per second is a by taking the log of the number You can subtract one if you because you have to subtract one for the Delete key on the keyboard, but log of the number times the number of correct divided by some time window. For example, 60 seconds. And that's sort of the standard way to measure a cursor And all credit in the world Dr. Shenoy of Stanford who And he's also one of my So all the credit in the world to him for coming up with a standardized metric to facilitate this kind of to say that Noland is at this task with his BCI. It's very important for progress that you have standardized across different How well does this do? So yeah, big kudos to him and Yeah, so for Noland, and there's also different modes that you can configure this task. So the Webgrid task can be presented as just sort of a left or you could have targets or you could have targets You could have targets middle click, scrolling, You could do all sorts of things within this general framework. But the simplest, purest show up on the screen. Blue means left click. That's the simplest form of the game. And the sort of prior and at Neuralink internally with sort of NPS have all been matched or beaten by Noland with So sort of prior to Neuralink, for a human using device 4.2 to 4.6 BPS, depending on exactly what paper you read and Noland's current record is 8.5 BPS. And again, this sort of median Neuralink performance is 10 BPS. So you can think of it roughly as he's 85% the level of control using their cursor to select And yeah, I think there's a to get us to that same It's not the case that sort from four to six BPS, are gonna be the ones that And in my view, the core challenge here is really the labeling problem. It's how do you understand at what the user's attempting to do. And yeah, I highly encourage folks in academia to work on this problem. - What's the journey of increasing the BPS on Webgrid? In March, you said that he selected 89,285 targets in Webgrid. - Yep. He's really serious about improving his performance in this game. So what is that journey how to improve that performance? How much can that be done How much can that be done How much can that be of like figuring out how to convey his intention more cleanly? - Yeah, no, this is a great question. So in my view, one of Noland's performance is so Noland is extremely He'll play Webgrid sometimes in the middle of the night. Like from 2:00 AM to 6:00 just because he wants to push it to the limits of what he can do. And this is not us like I wanna be clear. Like we're not saying, &quot;Hey, you should play Webgrid tonight.&quot; We just gave him the game and he is able to play it independently and practice whenever he wants, and he really pushes hard to push it, the technology's the absolute limit. And he views that as like his job really to make us be the bottleneck. And boy, has he done that well. And so the first thing he's extremely motivated I've also had the privilege to meet other clinical trial participants and they very much of like they view this to advance the technology And if that means selecting for four hours from 2:00 AM And there's something that's worth calling out. Okay, so then how do you sort of get from where he started, which is So I mean, when he started, there's a huge amount of learning to do on his side and our side to figure out what's the most intuitive control for him. And the most intuitive you have to find the set intersection of what do we have this signal to decode. So we don't pick up every single which means we don't have representation for every part of the body. So there may be some sort of decode performance on than others. For example, on his left hand, distinguishing his left ring finger from his left middle finger. But on his right hand, and good modulation that we're able to record for his pinky, his thumb, and his index finger. So you can imagine how these different sub spaces of modulated activity intersect with what's the And this has evolved over time. So once we gave him the ability to calibrate models on his own, he was able to go and explore to imagine controlling the cursor. For example, he could imagine by wiggling his wrist side to side, or by moving his entire arm. I think at one point, he did his feet. He tried like a whole bunch of what is the most natural way for him to control the cursor. That at the same time, it's - Just to clarify, it's through that you're able to figure - Yes, yeah, that's one way to do it. Maybe one nuance of when he's doing it, he can imagine many more things than we represent in that So we show him sort of You figure out what And we obviously have hints from that body mapping procedure of we know that this particular action, we can represent well. But it's really up to and figure out what works the best. - But at which point does the movement of his body the movement of the cursor? - Yeah. how quickly does he get there? - So this happened on a Tuesday. I remember this day very clearly, because at some point during the day, it looked like he wasn't doing super well. It looked like the model and he was like getting distracted. But he actually, it wasn't the case. Like what actually happened where he was just controlling the cursor. So he wasn't imagining He was just imagining, some like abstract intention to move the cursor on the screen. And I cannot tell you what the difference between those two things are. I really truly cannot. He's tried to explain it to me before. I cannot give a first person But the expletives that were enough to suggest that it was a very qualitatively for him to just have direct - I wonder if there's a way through UX to encourage a human because he discovered that he's a pioneer. So he discovered that on the process of trying to move the cursor with different kinds of intentions. But that is clearly a really which is to let go of trying and the hand and control the actual digital device with your mind. - That's right, UX is how it works. And the ideal UX is one have to think about what they need to do in order to get it done. It just does it. - That is so fascinating. But I wonder on the biological side how long it takes for the brain to adapt. - Yeah. learning like high level software, or is there like a where like the brain is adjusting slowly? - Yeah, the truth is, I don't know. I'm very excited to see with that we implant what the because we'll have learned a lot more. Potentially, we can help them understand and explore that direction more quickly. This is something I didn't know. This wasn't me prompting He was just exploring and figure it out himself. But now that we know that that maybe there's a way to, for example, hint the user, &quot;Don't try Just do something that feels natural, or just directly control the cursor. Don't imagine explicit action.&quot; And from there, we should be how this is for somebody who has not experienced that before. Maybe that's the default You don't have to go through this intermediate phase of explicit motions. - Or maybe if that naturally you can just occasionally encourage them to allow themselves to move the cursor. Actually sometimes, just just the knowledge that that's possible. - Pushes you to do it. - Yeah, enables you to do it, and then it becomes trivial. And then it also makes you wonder, it's the cool thing about humans. Once there's a lot more they will discover - Yes, and share their experiences. - Yeah, and share. - And that because of them sharing it, they'll be able to do it. All of a sudden, that's because just the knowledge sometimes is the thing that enables it to do it. - Yeah, I mean, and just we've probably tried like to do various aspects of decoding, and now we know like what to continue exploring further. Again, thanks to Noland and the many hours he's put into this. And so even just that help, like help constraints of different approaches really helps accelerate the set of things that how fast we hope to get how fast we can enable 'em and to get value out of the system. So yeah, massive hats off to Noland and all the participants to make this technology a reality. - So how often are the 'Cause Noland mentioned like, okay, there's a new update and that in the stream, he said he plays the snake game It's a good way for him to test And he says like sometimes the It's a constant like iteration. Like what does the update entail? Is it mostly on the decoder side? - Yeah, a couple comments. So one is it's probably between sort of research sessions where we're actively to understand like what versus sort of independent an ability to just go use the device, how anybody would wanna use their MacBook. And so what he's referring to is, I think usually in the where we're trying many, to even unsupervised approaches like we talked about earlier to try to come up with better ways to estimate his true intention and more accurately decode it. And in those scenarios, I mean we try, in any given session, he'll sometimes work for like eight hours a day. And so that can be hundreds that we would try in that day. Like a lot of different things. Now, it's also worth noting that we update the application he uses quite frequently. I think sometimes, up to like We'll update his application or bug fixes or feedback He's a very articulate person He's not a complaining person. He says, &quot;Hey, here's this is not optimal in my flow. Here's some ideas how to fix it. Let me know what your thoughts are. Let's figure out how to solve it.&quot; And it often happens that within a couple hours of That's the kind of And so sometimes, at the he'll give us feedback, and he's giving us feedback of that process or that set up. - That's fascinating, you mentioned, that there taken from the BCI sessions, So one of the amazing that they can provide, and excited and all like positive that they can provide - Yeah, it also requires, just to brag on the team a little bit, I work with a lot of exceptional people, and it requires the team on the user and what will And it requires like a &quot;Okay, this is what the user feedback was. I have all these meetings. We're gonna skip that today That level of focus underappreciated in the world. And also, you obviously to be able to execute on And yeah, we have that in loads. - Yeah, and this is such a because there's so many unknowns here. And I can tell UX is difficult because of how many people do it poorly. It's just not a trivial thing. - Yeah, it's also, you know, UX is not something that by just constant iterating Like sometimes, you and think globally, am sort of minima to be Like there's a lot of problems in which sort of fast iteration of how successful you will be. As a good example, like in the more frequently you get reward, the faster you can progress. It's just an easier learning prompt, the more frequently you get feedback. But UX is not that way. I mean, users are about what the right solution is, and it requires a deep understanding and what's possible, combined with what the problem Not just how the user expressed it, but what the true underlying problem is to actually get to the right place. - Yeah, that's the old like stories of Steve Jobs like rolling in there, like, yeah, the user is a useful signal, but it's not a perfect signal. And sometimes, you have to or whatever the, I forgot of Steve Jobs like making But there, some of it is aesthetic, that some of it is about the which is very much a Steve But when you have a human to interact with it, it also It's not just aesthetic. And that you have to empathize with a human being before you, while not always listening Like you have to deeply empathize. It's fascinating. It's really, really fascinating. And at the same time, iterate. But not iterate in small ways. Sometimes, a complete like He said that, Noland said in the early But you improved quickly. What was that journey like? - Yeah, I mean, I'll give So he really wanted to This is something that he, I mean, it sounds like a simple thing, but it's actually a And he couldn't do it It wasn't accessible. You can't scroll with a on the website that he to read the newest manga. - Might be a good quick pause to say the mouth stick holding a stick in his - Right, yeah, it's basically, you can imagine it's a stylus that you hold between your teeth. Yeah, it's basically a very long stylus. - And it's exhausting, it hurts, and it's inefficient. - Yeah, and maybe it's there are other alternative but the particular situation Noland's in, and this is not uncommon, and I think it's also not is that he's relatively spastic so he'll have muscle And so any assistive to be positioned directly for example, an eye tracker, or anything that requires him just is a no go, 'cause he'll either be shifted out of frame or if he has something in his mouth, it'll stab him in the face So these kind of when thinking about what advantages a BCI has in someone's life. If it fits ergonomically into your life in a way that you can use it independently when your caretaker's not either in the bed or in the chair, depending on your comfort level and your desire to have pressure sores, all these factors matter a lot in how good the solution So one of these very So again, manga is something and there's many ways You can imagine like different The user could do that, But scroll is a very because it's a huge thing on So any sort of jitter in the model output, any sort of error in the model output causes like an earthquake on the screen. Like you really don't you're trying to read be just because your scroll decoder And so this was an example how to formulate the problem in a way that the errors of the system, and we'll do our best to minimize them, whenever those errors do occur, that it doesn't interrupt the qualia again of the experience that the user is having. It doesn't interrupt their And so what we ended up building is this really brilliant feature. This is teammate named Ruse, who worked on this really brilliant work called quick scroll. And quick scroll basically and it identifies where on And it does this by deeply to understand where are the on the screen using the that's available to MacOs apps. And we identified where and we provided a BCI scroll bar. And the BCI scroll bar looks but it behaves very differently in that once you sort of move over to it, your cursor sort of morphs onto it. It sort of attaches or latches onto it. And then once you push up or down in the same way that you'd the normal cursor, it actually So it's basically like to a scroll action. And the reason that feels so when you move over to attach So you're like sort of stuck onto it. And then it's one continuous action. You don't have to like switch You sort of snap onto it You just immediately can start pulling the page down or pushing it up. And even once you get that right, there's so many little nuances of how the scroll behavior works to make it natural and intuitive. So one example is momentum. Like when you scroll a page you actually have some like flow. Like it doesn't just stop right when you lift your finger up. The same is true with BCI scroll. So we had to spend some time to figure out what are the right nuances. When you don't feel the screen what is the right sort of dynamic or what's the right amount when you push it to make for the user to have a natural experience reading their book. And there's a million, I mean, I could tell you like there's of how exactly that scroll works a month getting right to make and easy for the user to navigate. - I mean, even to scroll on feels extremely natural and pleasant. And it probably takes to get that right. And actually, the same that we're talking about, don't but also listen to them, and like throw everything out, think from first principles but also not. Yeah, yeah, by the way, that scroll bars on the desktop probably have stagnated 'cause the snap, same snap the scroll bar action is something that could in the desktop setting, even just for users to just 'cause the current scroll bar experience in the desktop is horrible. - It's hard to find, hard to control. There's not a momentum. And the intention should be clear. When I start moving towards a scroll bar, there should be a snapping But of course, maybe I'm but there's hundreds of millions of people paying that cost nonstop. But anyway, but in this case, this is necessary because paid by Noland for the jitteriness. So you have to switch between There has to be a phase Like when you're scrolling, - Right, right, so that is one drawback of the current approach. Maybe one other just so again, UX is how it works, and we think about that even the feature detection level of what we detect in the brain what we choose to decode, once it's being used by the user. So another good example in once they're actually using the decoder, the output that's displayed on the screen is not just what the decoder says. It's also a function of So we can understand, for example, that when you're trying to close a tab, that very small, stupid little which is hard to get precisely hit if you're dealing with sort of a noisy output of the decoder, we can understand that that is a small little and actually make it a Similar to how when you're if you are used to like the it actually adapts the target size of individual keys based on So it'll actually &quot;Hey, I'm going to see L.&quot; It'll make the E key bigger, because in those Lex is the And so that kind of predictiveness much more smooth even without improvements to the underlying decoder or feature detection part of the stack. So we do that with a feature We actually indexed the okay, these are the places that might be difficult to hit. Here's the kind of cursor that might be indicative of Let's make it easier. Let's blow up the size of it in a way that makes it easier for the user to sort of snap onto that target. So all these little in helping the user be independent in their day-to-day living. - So how much of the work on the decoder is generalizable to P2, P3, P4, P5, PM? How do you improve the decoder in a way that's generalizable? - Yeah, great question. So the underlying signal is gonna look very For example, channel something different in user just because that with channel 345 is gonna be in user one versus user two. But the approach is the methods, the user experience of sort of behavioral pattern from the user to associate with that neural signal, we hope that will translate over multiple generations of users. And beyond that, it's very, very possible. In fact, quite likely that we've overfit to sort of Noland's user And so what I hope to see is that when we get second, that we find sort of what that cover all the cases, that make it more intuitive for everyone. And hopefully, there's a &quot;Oh, we didn't think because they can speak. But with this user who not speak at all, this user And that will actually, those improvements that we make there should hopefully translate then to even people who can't speak but don't feel comfortable doing so because we're in a public setting, like their doctor's office. - So the actual mechanism and then closed loop and hopefully, can generalize as they're doing the calibration step. And the calibration step is pretty cool. I mean, that in itself, the interesting thing about Webgrid, which is like closed loop, it's like fun. I love it when there's like, they used to be kind of which is using actions a to get a lot of signal from. - Yeah. like a nice video game that also serves as great calibration. - It's so funny. I've heard this reaction so many times. Before sort of the first we had an internal perception that the first user And so we thought really quite should we build other games that like are more so we can get this kind of data and help facilitate research for long duration and stuff like this? Turns out that like people love this game. - Yeah. but I didn't know that that - Yeah, and just in case there's a grid of, let's and one of them lights up blue and you have to move your mouse And if you miss it and it's red- - [Bliss] I played this So many hours. - And what's your record, you said? - I think I have the highest at Neuralink. Right now, my record's 17 BPS. - 17 BPS. if you imagine that 35 by 35 grid, you're hitting about 100 So 100 correct selections So you're averaging about, between 500, 600 - So one of the reasons with that game is I'm so everything is done with via keyboard. If I can avoid touching So how can you explain - I have like a whole ritual I go through when I play Webgrid. So it's actually like a diet Like it's a whole thing, so great. - The first thing- for five days, have to - Actually, it kind of, I mean, the fasting thing is important. So this is like, you know- - Focuses the mind, yeah? So what I do is actually, I don't eat for a little bit beforehand. And then I'll actually eat right before, and I get like- - This is a real thing? And then it has to be This is again a night owl but it has to be like midnight, And I have a very specific like physical position I'll sit in, which is, I used to be, I and so I did most of my just like in my bedroom or whatever. And so I have a very specific On the floor, I sit and play, and then you have to make sure like there's not a lot when you're playing so And then I turn the gain of the cursor, so the speed of the cursor way, way up. So it's like small motions - Are you moving with your wrist or you're never moving on- - I move my fingers. So my wrist is almost completely still. I'm just moving my fingers. - Yeah. You know those, just on a small tangent, which I've been meaning to of people that set the Those folks, they're playing, there's a way to, did you see this? - I see like the three, like - Yeah, you could find a way to do it where like it's using a loophole, like a bug that you can do So it's along that line but not quite. But you do realize there'll right now listening to this and be like- trade my record. I mean, the reason I did this, literally, was just because I wanted The team, like I wanted should not be like the median performance. It should be able to Like that should be the minimum bar. - What do you think is possible, like 20 scrapes? what the limits. I mean, the limits you can calculate just in terms of like screen refresh rate and like cursor immediately But I mean, I'm sure with just sort of reaction time and visual perception I would guess it's in the somewhere in there is probably the right that I'd never be thinking about. It also matters like how You could imagine like to do like 10,000 targets on the screen and maybe they can do better that way. There's some like task optimizations you could do to try to boost - What do you think it takes for Noland to be able to do above 8.5? To keep increasing that number? You said like every increase in the number might require different- - [Bliss] Yeah. - Different improvements in the system. - Yeah, I think the I mean, the first answer I don't know. This is edge of the research. So again, nobody's gotten So what's next is gonna be a What we've seen historically parts of the stack follow So when I first joined Neuralink, like three years ago or so, one of the major problems of the Bluetooth connection. It was just like the radial It was an early revision of the implant, and it just like, no matter if your thing is updating or 50 milliseconds, it's And no matter how good you are, that's gonna be frustrating So at that point, it was very is just get the data off the such that you can enable the And then at some point, it was, actually, the modeling challenge of how do you just build a good mapping, like the supervised learning problem of you have a bunch of data and you have a label just what is the right like and hyper parameters to optimize that? And that was a problem for a bit. And once you solve that, it I think the next bottleneck just sort of software If you have widely varying in your system, or your app just lags out every once in a while, it and get in a state of flow, and it basically just disrupts And so there's a variety and improvements we made the performance of the system, made it much more and led to a state where we to build better models with. So that was a bottleneck for a while. It's just sort of like If I were to guess right now, there's sort of two major directions you could think about for The first major direction is labeling. So labeling is again this of given a window of time where the user is expressing some behavioral intent. What are they really trying to do at the granularity of every millisecond? And that, again, is a task design problem. It's a UX problem. It's a machine learning problem. It's a software problem. Sort of touches all The second thing you can think about to improve BPS further is the thing you're decoding the number of things that you're decoding. So this is serving the direction So you can imagine giving more clicks. For example, a left click, a Different actions like And that can improve the effective bit rate of your communication prosthesis. If you're trying to allow the through any given communication channel, you can measure that with bits per second. But what action measures is how effective are they at And so from the perspective that you care about, functionality and extending functionality is something we're very interested in, the sort of number of BPS, but it can also improve the downstream sort of independence that the user has and the skill and efficiency with which they can - Would the number of threads increasing also potentially help? - Yes, short answer is yes. It's a bit nuanced how that curve or how that manifests in the numbers. So what you'll see is a curve of number of channels that you're using for decode versus either the offline metric of how good you are at decoding, or the online metric of how good is the user using this device, you see roughly a log curve. So as you move further you get a corresponding sort in control quality and The important nuance corresponds with a specific represented intention in the brain. So for example, if you have a channel 254, it might correspond with Channel 256 might mean move to the left. If you want to expand you want to control, a broader set of channels that covers a broader set You can think of it kinda Like if you had a bunch of different imagined movements you could do, how would you map those imagined movements to input to a computer? You can imagine handwriting to output characters on the screen. You can imagine just and have that output text on the screen. You can imagine different finger modulations for different clicks. You can imagine wiggling your big nose or opening some menu or to have like command tab So it's really, the amount of different actions depends on how many channels you have on the information - Right, so that's more So actually, as you increase that's more about increasing the number of actions - One other nuance there so again, our goal is really to control their computer So that's BPS. With all the same functionality I have, which is what we just talked about, but then also as reliably as I can. And that last point is very related to channel account discussion. So as you scale out number of channels, the relative importance of your model input to the output control of the user diminishes, which means that if the sort is per channel, or if such that more channels means, on average, less output effect, then your reliability of So one sort of core thesis is that scaling channel the reliability system without any work on the decoder itself. - Can you linger on the reliability here? So first of all, when you see non-stationarity of the signal, which aspect are you referring to? - Yeah, so maybe let's talk briefly what the actual underlying So again, I spoke very about how when you imagine or imagine moving to the left, neurons might fire more or less. And their frequency at least in the motor cortex, it's very correlated with the behavioral task You can imagine actually, that rate coding, which is is like the only way the brain You can imagine many different ways in which the brain could encode intention. And there's actually evidence that there's temporal codes. So timing codes of like exactly is the mechanism of But at least in the motor cortex, there's a substantial evidence or at least one, like first order of fact is that it's rate coding. So then if the brain is by changing the sort of what really matters is sort of the delta between sort of the and what it looks like And what we've observed and in academic work is sort of the, if you're if you imagine that flour or something when you're baking, that baseline state of is actually different day to day. And so if what you're trying to measure is how much rice is in the pot, you're gonna get a different because you're measuring So that baseline rate shifting at least from a first order is what's causing this downstream bias. There can be other effects, non-linear effects on top of that, but at least, at a very first order description of the problem, that's what we observe day to day is that the baseline firing neuron are observed on a - So can you just adjust to the baseline to make it relative to - Yeah, this is a great question. So with monkeys, we have One example way to do this is you ask them to do some behavioral task, like play the game with a joystick, you measure what's going on in the brain, you compute some mean of what's going on across and you subtract it in the input when you're doing your BCI session. Works super well. For whatever reason, that doesn't work super well with Noland. I actually don't know the full reason why, but I can imagine several explanations. One such explanation could difference between some open loop task and some closed loop task with Noland than it is with a monkey. Maybe in this open loop task, he's watching the Lex Fridman podcast while he's doing the task, or he's whistling and listening to music and talking with his what's for dinner while And so the exact sort between those two states and thus lead to a bigger between the features at sort of open loop time and what you're trying to - That's interesting. Just on that point, to watch Noland be able to do multiple tasks at the same time, to be able to move the while talking and while being nervous, because he's talking in front of- - Kicking my ass and chest too, yeah. - Kicking your ass. And talk trash while doing it. So all at the same time. And yes, if you are trying that might throw everything off. Boy is that interesting. - Maybe one comment on that too. For folks that aren't familiar I think there's a common belief that, well, why can't you or something like this move a mouse on the screen? And it's a really a fair question, and one that I actually did was not confident before Noland, that this was gonna be a profoundly transformative technology And I'm very confident but the reasons are subtle. It really has to do with ergonomically how it fits into their life. Even if you can just offer as what they would have or with a mouse stick, but you don't need to have You don't need to be You don't need your caretaker to be around to set it up for you. You can activate it when you want, how you want, wherever you want. That level of independence is It means that they can text without their mom needing It means that they can like open up and browse the internet at to set their iPad up for them. This is like a profoundly for folks in that situation. And this is even before we that may not be able to communicate at all or ask for help when they want to. This can be potentially the only link that they have to the outside world. And yeah, that one doesn't of why that's so impactful. - You mentioned neural decoder. How much machine learning How much magic, how much how difficult is it to that figures out what these - Yeah, good question. There's a couple different So maybe I'll zoom out briefly first, and then I'll go down So the zoomed out view is that building the decoder is really the process of building the dataset, plus And each of those steps is important. The direction I think is primarily going to of how do you construct the But there's an entirely separate challenge of then how do you compile the best model. And so I'll go briefly down the second rabbit hole. One of the main challenges with designing the optimal model for BCI don't necessarily correspond It's fundamentally a control problem. The user is trying to control and the exact sort of user the intention impacts So for example, if you just as predicted by your model, to achieve the same validation loss. Not all of them are equally And it might be as simple as saying, &quot;Oh, you could just add that like help you capture the But this is a very So how you turn the labels into the model is more of a nuanced process than just like a standard One very fascinating anecdote here, we've tried many different architectures that translate brain data to velocity outputs, for example. And one example that's stuck in my brain from a couple years ago we were using just to decode the brain activity. We tried A/B test where we were measuring the relative performance of sort of 1D convolution So if you imagine per channel, that's producing some Commvault feature for each of those input sequences for every single channel simultaneously. You can actually get meaning you're fitting the data better, and it's generalizing if you use this You're reducing parameters. It's sort of a standard procedure when you're dealing with time series data. Now it turns out that when the controllability was worse, was far worse, even though the And there can be many but what that taught me at least was that, hey, it's at least the case right now that if you were to just throw a bunch of computer at this problem, and you were trying to sort or let some GPT model hard code or come up with or invent if you were just optimizing for loss, it would not be sufficient, which means that there's still some inherent modeling gap here. There's still some artistry of how to get your model And that may be fundamentally but there may be other - Is it data constrained at this time? Which is what it sounds like. How do you get a lot of good labels? - Yeah, I think it's not necessarily data quantity constrained. - But even like even just a quantity. I mean, 'cause it has to be I guess there's not - Yeah, so it depends what version of this you're talking about. So if you're talking about like, let's say the simplest then I think, yeah, data If you're talking about how to build a sort of multifunction output that lets you do all the inputs, the computer that you and I can do, then it's actually a much more sophisticated nuanced modeling challenge, because now you need to think about not just when the user's left clicking, but when you're building you also need to be thinking about how to make sure it doesn't fire when they're trying to right click or when they're trying to move the mouse. So one example of an interesting bug from like sort of week one when he moved the mouse, the click signal sort and when he stopped, the So again, there's a contamination Another good example was, at sort of a left click and drag. And the minute he started moving, the left click signal dropped off a cliff. So again, 'cause there's between the two signals, you to either in the dataset or in the model, build robustness against this kind of, you think of it like it's just that the model has not seen this kind of variability before. So you need to find some way - This is super cool because it feels like all of this is very - Yes, it is fundamentally This is important to emphasize, and it's also important to emphasize that it may not need which means that people unsupervised speech classification using CTC loss, for example, they could potentially have - So what things are you excited about in the future development of the software stack on Neuralink? So everything we've been talking about, the decoding, the UX- - I think there's some I'm excited about, like something I'm excited and some I'm excited how this technology is for entering the world. So I'll work backwards. On the technology entering I'm really excited to for folks that cannot speak at all. They have no ability to into useful control by and are extremely limited in I think that will be an to understand, I mean, really for all startups, which Does this device have the capacity and potential to transform people's lives in the current state? And if not, what are the gaps? And if there are gaps, how do we solve them most efficiently? So that's what I'm very sort of year or so of The technology side, I'm quite excited about I think it's gonna be awesome. The most prominent one, I would say, is scaling channel count. So right now, we have a The next version, we'll have And I would expect that curve And it's unclear what set of problems will just disappear and what set of problems will remain and require for their focus. And so I'm excited about that that gives us in terms we choose to focus our And also in terms of the, yeah, even things as simple as not stationary. Like does that problem just completely go away at that scale, or do we need to come still even at that point? And also, when we get to that time point, when we start expanding out dramatically the set of functions that you how to deal with all the nuances of not being able to under your fingertips, but to modulate all of them in synchrony to achieve the thing you want. And again, you don't have that appropriate set to feedback loop, intuitive for a user to control a high dimensional control surface without feeling the thing physically? I think that's gonna be a I'm also quite excited to understand, do these scaling laws continue? Like as you scale channel count, how much further out do you go before that saturation point is truly hit? And it's not obvious today. I think we only know what's in the sort of interpolation space. We only know what's We don't know what's beyond that. And then there's a whole sort of like range of interesting sort of neuroscience and brain questions, which in the brain, in more places, you get to learn much more quickly about what those brain regions represent. And so I'm excited about that fundamental neuroscience learning, for figuring out how, insert electrodes in the future. So yeah, I think all those dimensions, I'm really, really excited about. And that doesn't even the sort of software stack that and what we're working on right now. - Yeah, it seems that a thousand electrodes It feels like this would be one of those silly notions in the you should have millions of electrodes, and this is where like the - Yeah. - You tweeted- - &quot;Some thoughts are most Why do you think that is? - I think it's because of language is pretty steep. And yet you're able to reconstruct in the other person's without being literal. If you can express a sentiment they can reconstruct the meaning and beauty of the thing that you're trying to get across. The sort of the generator function in their brain's more powerful than what language can express. And so the mechanism of to feed or seed that generator function. - So being literal sometimes for the thing you're trying to convey. - And it's actually in going through that generation that they understand what you mean. That's the beautiful part. It's also like when you look like it's not the pixels of the it's the thought process that the experience of that. That actually is a thing that matters. - Yeah, it's resonating with some deep- - [Bliss] Yeah. - Thing within you that and was able to convey And that's actually gonna be It's like if you just read that doesn't say much It requires a human to interpret it. So it's the combination of the human mind and all the experiences within the context of the of the human species that And they load that in. And so in that same way, from human to human but may actually carry a lot of power because of the complexity of the human mind on the receiving end. Yeah, that's interesting. Poetry still doesn't, who is it? I think Yoshi Bako first said something about all the people that think we've achieved AGI explain - [Bliss] Oh yeah. - And until the AGI likes music, you haven't achieved AGI or something like this. that's like some next kind of thing going on there? - I don't know. I listen to a lot of classical music and also read a lot of poetry. And yeah, I do wonder if of the next token surprise - Yeah, maybe. like a lot of the tricks are like basically, you have And then you do like a twist. It's like, okay, verse or is one thing, and then okay, now we're onto the next theme. And they kind of play with and the expectation of the user. And that's even true like, through history as musicians evolve music, they take like some nuanced structure that people are familiar with and they just tweak it a little bit. Like they tweak it and This is especially true in But that's what I'm wondering, - So breaking structure is something that humans seem to like. Maybe as simple as that. - Yeah, and I mean, great artists copy, and they also, knowing is the important part. And that fundamentally, it must be about the listener of the piece. Like which rule is the right one to break, it's about the user or the audience member perceiving that as interesting. - What do you think is the - There's a TV show I really And in &quot;The West Wing,&quot; He's the president of the United States who's having a discussion about the Bible with one of their colleagues. And the colleague says something about, &quot;The Bible says X, Y, and Z.&quot; And the President says, &quot;Yeah, And the person says, &quot;Do you believe the Bible And the President says, that neither of us are smart I think the analogy here is that largely, we don't know And so I think I'm very aligned with sort of &quot;The Hitchhiker's of this question, which is basically, if we can ask the right questions, it's much more likely we find the meaning of human existence. And so in the short term, as a heuristic in the sort we should try to increase the diversity of people asking such questions, or generally of consciousness and conscious beings So again, I think I'll take but say I do think there are that improve the likelihood - It's interesting how to the task of asking the right questions. That's the main thing is not the answers, it's the questions. - This point by the way is driven home in a very painful way when with someone who cannot speak, the last thing to go is to somehow wiggle a lip or move something that allows them to say yes or no. And in that situation, it's very obvious that what matters is, are you asking them the right question to be - Wow, that's powerful. Well, Bliss, thank you and thank you for being you, and thank you for talking today. - Thank you. - Thanks for listening to this conversation with Bliss Chapman. And now, dear friends, the first human being to implanted in his brain. You had a diving accident in with no feeling from the shoulders down. How did that accident change your life? - That's sort of a freak Imagine you're running into the ocean, although this is a lake, but and you get to about waist high, and then you kind of like dive in, take the rest of the plunge That's what I did. And then I just never came back up. Not sure what happened. I did it running into the And so my idea of what happened is really just that I elbow, knee, foot, something The left side of my head was sore for about a month afterwards. So must must've taken a pretty big knock. And then they both came up, and I didn't. And so I was face down I was conscious. And then eventually just realized I couldn't hold my breath any longer. And I keep saying, &quot;Took a big drink.&quot; People, I don't know if It seems like I'm making light of it all, but it's just kind of how I am. And I don't know, like I'm a very relaxed sort of stress-free person. I rolled with the punches I kind of took it in stride. It's like, &quot;All right, How can I improve my on a day-to-day basis?&quot; At first, just trying as much of my body as possible, to try to get healed, to learn as much as I could once I left the hospital. And then thank God I had If I didn't have my parents, my siblings, then I would've never made it this far. They've done so much for me, more than like I can ever And a lot of people don't have that. A lot of people in my situation, their families either aren't or honestly, just don't want to. And so they get placed So thankfully I had my family. I have a great group of friends, a great group of buddies from college who have all rallied around me, and we're all still incredibly close. People always say, &quot;If you're lucky, you'll end up with one or that you keep throughout your life.&quot; I have about 10 or 12 from high school that have all stuck around, and we still get together, We call it the spring This last one we all did, So I did a Professor Xavier, It was so good. So yeah, I have such a great And so being a quadriplegic I get waited on all the time. People bring me food and and watch as much TV and I get to read as much as I want. I mean, it's great. - It's beautiful to see that you see the silver lining in all of this. Just going back, do when you first realized you were paralyzed from the neck down? I was face down in the water right when whatever something hit my head. I tried to get up and I and it just sort of clicked. I'm like, &quot;All right, I'm paralyzed. Can't move. What do I do? If I can't get up, I can't flip over, can't do anything, then I'm And I knew I couldn't so I just held my breath for maybe 10, 15 seconds. I've heard from other people I guess the two girls that were two of my best friends. They're lifeguards. And one of them said that was sort of shaking in the water, like I was trying to flip over and stuff. But I knew, I knew immediately. And I just kind of, I realized that that's from here on out. Maybe if I got to the hospital, they'd be able to do something. When I was in the hospital, like right before surgery, I was trying to calm I had like brought her with and she was just bawling &quot;Hey, it's gonna be fine. Like don't worry.&quot; I was cracking some jokes The nurse had called &quot;Don't tell my mom. She's just gonna be stressed out. Call her after I'm out of surgery,&quot; 'cause at least she'll like whether I live or not, really. And I didn't want her to be stressed through the whole thing. But I knew. And then when I first I was super drugged up. They had me on fentanyl like I don't recommend it, but on that fentanyl, and it was still the best I've ever felt on drugs. Medication, sorry, on medication. And I remember the first time I was just bawling. I had like ventilator in, like I couldn't talk or anything, and I just started crying, because it was more like seeing her. I mean, the whole situation but it was just like seeing her face for the first time was pretty hard. But yeah, I never had like a moment of, &quot;Man, I'm paralyzed. This sucks. I don't wanna like be around anymore.&quot; It was always just, &quot;I hate but like sitting here and - So immediate acceptance. - [Noland] Yeah, yeah. - Has there been low points along the way? - Yeah, yeah, sure. I mean, there are days like doing anything. Not so much anymore. Like not for the last couple years, I don't really feel that way. I've more so just wanted to to make my life better at this point. But at the beginning, there There were some really First off, just like the amount of pain I was I mean, I remember screaming at the top of my lungs in the hospital, because I thought my legs were on fire. And obviously, I can't feel anything, but it's all nerve pain. And so that was a really hard night. I asked them to give me as They're like, &quot;You've had so just kind of deal with it. Go to a happy place sort of thing.&quot; So that was a pretty low point. And then every now and again, it's hard, like realizing things that that I won't be able to do anymore. I always wanted to be and I just don't think as a quadriplegic. Maybe it's possible, but put someone I love through that, like having to take care of me and stuff. Not being able to go out and play sports. I was a huge athlete growing Little things too, when I Like there's something really special about being able to hold Like the feel, the texture, the smell, like as you turn the I can't do it anymore. And it's little things like that. The two-year mark was pretty rough. Two years is when they say as much as you're ever gonna get back, as far as movement and sensation goes. And so for the first two years, that was the only thing try as much as I can to move my fingers, my hands, my feet, everything possible to try to get sensation and movement back. And then when the two-year mark hit, so June 30th, 2018, I was really sad that And then just randomly here and there, but I was never like depressed Just it never seemed worthwhile to me. - What gave you strength? - My faith. My faith in God was a big one. My understanding that it And even if that purpose wasn't anything involving Neuralink, there's a story in the Bible about Job, and I think it's a really, about how Job has all happen to him, and he praises God throughout the whole situation. I thought, and I think for most of their lives that they are Job, that they're the ones going and they just need to praise and everything will work out. At some point after my accident, I realized that I might not be Job, that I might be one of his children that gets killed or And so it's about terrible to those around you who you love. So maybe, in this case, and she has to get through and I just need to try and make it as best as possible for her, because she's the one that's really going through this massive trial. And that gave me a lot of strength. And obviously, my family. My family and my friends, they give me all the strength that I need on a day-to-day basis. So it makes things a lot easier having that great - From everything I've seen of you online, your streams and the way you let's say, your unwavering Has that always been this way? - Yeah, yeah. I mean, I've just always thought I could do anything I ever wanted to do. There was never anything too big. Like whatever I set my mind I didn't wanna do a lot. I wanted to like travel around and be sort of like a gypsy I had this dream of and being like, I don't know, a shepherd in like Wales or Ireland. And then going and being doing all these things for like a year. Like it's such like cliche things, but I just thought it would be so much fun to go and travel and do different things. And so I've always just seen the best in people around me too. And I've always tried And growing up with my mom too, she's like the most positive And we're all just people people. I just get along great with people. I really enjoy meeting new people, and so I just wanted to do everything. This is just kind of just how I've been. - It's just great to see that given everything you've been through. - Yeah. - Was that like a that you're not gonna - Yeah, a bit. Also, like it's just kind of how I am. Like I said, I roll with I always used to tell people, like I don't stress about things much. And whenever I'd see I would just say, &quot;It's not hard. Just don't stress about it.&quot; And that's all you need to do. And they're like, &quot;That's I'm like, &quot;It works for me. Like just don't stress, and Like everything will work out.&quot; Obviously, not everything and it's not like it all works out for the best all the time, but I just don't think stress has had any place in my life since I was a kid. - What was the experience like of you being selected to to have a Neuralink device Were you scared, excited? (Lex laughing) Like I was never afraid of it. I had to think through a lot. Should I do this? Like be the first person? I could wait until number two or three and get a better version of the Neuralink. Like the first one might not work. Maybe it's actually gonna kind of suck it. It's gonna be the worst So why would I do the first one? Like I've already kind of been selected. I could just tell them, like, and then I'll do number two or three.&quot; Like I'm sure they would let me. They're looking for a few people anyways. But ultimately, I was like, I don't know, there's something about being It's pretty cool. I always thought that if I had the chance that I would like to do this seemed like a and I was never scared. I think my like faith I always felt like God was I almost wish it wasn't this, because I had many conversations with God about not wanting to do any I told him, &quot;I'll go I'll go out and travel the world and talk to stadiums, thousands of people, give my testimony, I'll do all of it, but like heal me first. Don't make me do all of this in a chair. That sucks.&quot; And I guess he won that argument. I didn't really have much of a choice. I always felt like there And to see how, I guess, the interview process and how quickly everything happened, how the stars sort of it just told me like, as the it just told me that it It was all meant to be. And so I shouldn't be afraid And so I wasn't. I kept telling myself like, &quot;You say that now, but as you're probably gonna be freaking out. Like you're about to have brain surgery.&quot; And brain surgery is a big but it's a even bigger deal for me. Like it's all I have left. The amount of times I've been like, &quot;Thank you God that you and my personality and my like love of learning, like my character, everything, Like as long as you left me that, then I think I can get by.&quot; And I was about to let and they're like, &quot;Hey, we're gonna go put some stuff in your brain. Hopefully, it works out.&quot; And so it was something But like I said, how I never expected for a second Plus, the more people I and on the Neuralink side, they're just the most Like I can't speak enough to how much I trust and how impressed I am with all of them. And to see the excitement on their faces, to like walk into a room and see all of these people looking at me, like we're so excited. Like we've been working so hard on this, and it's finally happening. It's super infectious, and it just makes me wanna do it even more and to help them achieve their dreams. Like I don't know, it's so rewarding. And I'm so happy for - What was the day of surgery like? When did you wake up? What'd you feel? - Yeah. - Yeah. - No, no. I thought I was going to, but as surgery approached the morning of, I was just excited. Let's make this happen. I think I said something like that to Elon on the phone beforehand. We were like FaceTiming, and I was like, &quot;Let's rock and roll.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Let's do it.&quot; I don't know, I wasn't scared. So we woke up. I think we had to be at the I think surgery was at like 7:00 AM. So we woke up pretty early. I'm not sure much of us slept that night. Got to the hospital 5:30, went through like all the pre-op stuff. Everyone was super nice. Elon was supposed to be but something went wrong with his plane, so we ended up FaceTiming. That was cool. Had one of the greatest After that phone call, hung up with him. There were like 20 people I just hope he wasn't too - Nice. - Well done. - Did you write that ahead of - No, it just came to me. I was like, &quot;This seems right.&quot; When in surgery, I asked if I could pray right beforehand. So I like prayed over the room. I asked God if you would in case anything happened to me. And just to like calm Woke up and played a bit I don't know if you've heard about it. - Yeah, I read about it. - Yeah, she was not happy. - Can you take me through the prank - Yeah, this is something- doing that now? It was something I had talked about ahead of time with my buddy, Bain. I was like, &quot;I would really Very specifically, my mom. She's very gullible. I think she had knee surgery once even. And after she came out of knee surgery, she was super groggy. She's like, &quot;I can't feel my legs.&quot; And my dad looked at her, he was like, &quot;You don't have any legs. Like they had to amputate both your legs.&quot; We just do very mean I'm so surprised that she still loves us. But right after surgery, that I was going to be too like I had anesthesia once Like I could not function And I like said a lot of I was really worried I don't know, like dropping some bombs. And I wouldn't even know, So I was like, &quot;Please And please let me be there And so she walked in after surgery. It was like the first time they had been able to And she just looked at me, she said, &quot;Hi, like, how are you? How are you doing? How do you feel?&quot; And I looked at her in this very, I think the anesthesia helped, very like groggy, sort of It's like, &quot;Who are you?&quot; And she just started like at the surgeons, &quot;What did you do to my son? You need to fix this right now.&quot; Tears started streaming. I saw how much she was freaking out. I was like, &quot;I can't let this go on.&quot; And so I was like, &quot;Mom, I'm fine. Like it's all right.&quot; And still, she was not happy about it. She still says she's But I mean, I don't know. I don't know what that's gonna look like. - It's a lifelong battle. - In some sense, it was a demonstration that you still got- - That's all I wanted it to be - That's all I wanted it to be. And I knew that doing like that would show her- - Yeah. you're still there, that you love her. - [Noland] Yeah, exactly, exactly. - It's a dark way to do it, but I love it. What was the first time that you can use the Neuralink device to effect the world around you? - Yeah, the first little taste I got of it was actually not too long after surgery. Some of the Neuralink team had brought in like a little iPad, a and they had put up that were recording some They put it in front of me. Like this is like real That's super cool. My first thought was, &quot;I let's see if I can So I started trying to and I just started like and one of the things I was doing was like moving my index And I just saw this yellow like third box over or something. I saw this yellow spike And I was like, &quot;Oh, that's cool.&quot; And everyone around me was just like, &quot;Well, what are you seeing?&quot; I was like, &quot;Look, look at this one. Look at like this top row, third Like that's me right there, there, there.&quot; And everyone was freaking out. They started like clapping. I was like, &quot;That's super unnecessary.&quot; - That's awesome. supposed to happen, right? - So you're imagining yourself moving each individual finger one at a time, and then seeing like that and then when you did the index - Yeah, I was wiggling to see if anything would happen. There was a lot of other things going on, but that big yellow spike was Like I'm sure that if I would've I could have mapped out But the big yellow spike - Maybe you could speak to what it's like to sort of wiggle your fingers, to imagine that the mental, to sort of wiggle your How easy is that to do? - Pretty easy for me. It's something that, after my accident, they told me to try and move my body as much as possible. Even if you can't, just keep trying, because that's going to create or pathways in my spinal cord to hopefully regain some movement someday. - That's fascinating. It's bizarre, but I- - So that's part of the recovery process is to keep trying to move your body? - Yep, as much as you can. and the nervous system does its thing. It starts reconnecting. It'll start reconnecting for some people. Some people, it never works. Some people, they'll do it. Like for me, I got some and that's about it. I can, if I try enough, I can wiggle some of my fingers. Not like on command. It's more like if I try to move, say my right pinky and I after a few seconds, it'll wiggle. So I know there's stuff there. Like I know, and that happens with a few - -different of my fingers and stuff. But yeah, that's what they tell you to do. One of the people at the time when I was in the hospital for one guy who had recovered what he thought about every like the act of walking So I tried that for years. I tried just imagining It's hard to imagine like all well, taking a step, like all of the things that have to move, like all of the activations along your leg in order - But you're not just imagining. You're like doing it, right? - I'm trying, yeah. So it's like, it's imagining over again what I had to do to take a step, because it's not something You wanna walk and you take a step. You don't think about all that are going on in your body. So I had to recreate that in And then I practice it - So it's not like a It's a first person perspective. You're like, it's not like you're imagining yourself walking. You're like literally all the same stuff as if you're walking. - Yeah, which was hard. It was hard at the beginning. - Like frustrating hard, or like actually cognitively hard? Like which way? There's a scene in one of the oddly enough, where she is like paralyzed, I don't know, from like a And then she like finds some way to get into the back of a truck or something, and she stares at her Like move your big toe. And after a few seconds And she did that with every until she can move again. I did that for years, just &quot;Move your index finger. Move your big toe.&quot; Sometimes, vocalizing it like out loud, sometimes just thinking it. I tried every different way to do this to try to get some movement back. And it's hard because it like physically taxing on my body, which is something I 'cause it's not like I'm moving, but it feels like there's the only way I can describe that aren't getting 'cause there's that gap in my spinal cord. So brain down, and then from And so it feels like those signals get stuck in whatever body And they just build up and build up and build up until they burst. And then once they burst, I sensation of everything back out to level, and then I do it again. It's also just like a fatigue but without actually moving your muscles. It's very, very bizarre. And then if you try to or think about a body part and move for two, three, it's very taxing on your mind. It's takes a lot of focus. It was a lot easier at the beginning because I wasn't able to like control a TV in my room or anything. I wasn't able to control So for the first few years, a lot of what I was doing And so obviously, I did a lot of thinking, and I tried to move a lot just - So you never gave up sort of hope there? - No. essentially? I do it like subconsciously. And I think that that helped a lot with things with Neuralink, honestly. It's something that I at the all hands that I did at - Welcome to Austin, by the way. - Yeah, hey, thanks man. I went to school- - Hey, thanks, thanks man. The gigafactory was super cool. I went to school at Texas A&amp;M, so I've been around before. - So you should be saying welcome to me. - Yeah. Yeah, I get you. - But yeah, I was talking about how a lot of what they've had me do, especially at the beginning, well, I still do it now is body mapping. So like there will be a or an arm on the screen and and that's how they sort to like understand what I'm trying to do. And so it made things very - That's really, really cool. So yeah, it's amazing to know 'cause I've learned a lot about with the interface and It's cool to know that like training to be like - Yeah, yeah. I don't know if other quadriplegics, like other paralyzed people give up. I hope they don't. I hope they keep trying, because I've heard other like don't ever stop. They tell you two years, The human body is capable So I've heard other people Like I think one girl had spoken to me through some family members and said that she had been and she'd been trying to for all that time, and like 18 years later. So like I know that it's possible, and I'll never give up doing it. I do it when I'm lying down. Like watching TV, I'll kind of just almost like on its own. It's just something I've that I don't know, I don't - That's really awesome to hear, 'cause I think it's one of those things that can really pay off, in the long term. 'Cause like that is training. You're not visibly seeing the results of that training at the moment, but like, there's that like Olympic getting ready for something. was like something that that I can't thank them enough for it. Like I can't show my was being able to visually see that what I'm doing is It's a huge part of the reason why, like I know now that I'm because before Neuralink, and I was just assuming Like it's not like I knew. I wasn't getting back any So I could have been running up against a brick wall for all I knew. And with Neuralink, I get to see like all the signals happen in real time, and I get to see that what I'm doing can actually be mapped. When we started doing like when I go to click my index that it actually recognizes that. Like it changed how I with like retraining my body to move. And so yeah, I'll never give up now. - And also, just the signal of a brain there that's like- - Exactly. develops, that brain is, I mean, that's the most important thing about the human body is the brain. And it can do a lot of the control. So what did it feel like when you first, could wiggle the index finger and saw the environment respond? Like that little- - Wherever, just being way - Yeah, it was very cool. I mean, it was cool, but I it made sense to me. Like it made sense that like there are signals and that as long as you that could measure those, then you should be able to Like see it happen. And so that was not very surprising to me. I was just like, &quot;Oh, cool.&quot; We found one. Like we found something that works. It was cool to see that and that everything that was like going to pay off. But I hadn't like moved a cursor I had like interacted with a computer or anything at that point. So it just made sense, it was cool. I didn't really know much so I didn't know like what sort of step this was actually making. Like I didn't know if or if this was just like, okay, it's cool that we got this far, but we're actually hoping for something like much It's like, okay. I just thought that they So I was like, cool. Like this is cool. - Well, did you like read up on the specs of the hardware you're getting installed? Like the number of threads, this kind of stuff? but it's all Greek to me. I was like, okay, threads, 64 threads, 16 electrodes, 1,024 channels. Okay. Like that math checks out. - Sounds right. - When was the first time you were able to move a mouse cursor? - I know it must have been a week or two weeks that I was able to like first move the cursor. And again, like it kind It didn't seem like that big of a deal. It was like, okay, well, hmm, how do I explain this? When everyone around you starts clapping for something that you've &quot;Okay, like I did something cool. Like that was impressive in some way.&quot; What exactly that meant, what it was hadn't really like set in for me. So again, I knew that me and then that being mapped machine learning algorithm like my brain signals and then take that and give me cursor control, that all kind of made sense to me. I don't know like all but I was like, there are still They just can't get through because there's like a And so they can't get all but they're still there. So when I moved the cursor for &quot;That's cool, but I expected Like it made sense to me. When I moved the cursor for the first time with just my mind, without so I guess I can get into Like the difference between attempted movement and imagined movement. - Yeah, that's a fascinating difference. - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. So like attempted movement to attempt to move, say, my hand. I try to attempt to move to the left, forward and back. And that's all attempted. Attempt to like lift Attempt to kick or something. I'm physically trying to even if you can't see it. This would be like me attempting to like shrug my shoulders or something. That's all attempted movement. That's what I was doing for when they were going to When I was doing body mapping, it was attempt to do When Nir was telling me it like kind of made sense to me, but it's not something Like if you started school &quot;Okay, write your name with this pencil.&quot; And so you do that. &quot;Okay, now imagine writing Kids would think like, I guess like that kind of makes sense. And they would do it. But that's not something we're taught. It's all like how to do things physically. We think about like thought but that's not like a physical It's more like what you would So imagined movement, it never Like I guess you could maybe describe it as like a professional athlete, like swinging a baseball bat Like imagine what you're supposed to do. But then you go right to then you get a bat in your hand and then you do what And so I don't have that like connection. So telling me to imagine there wasn't a lot that I I just kind of had to accept But the attempted moving Like if I try to move, then there's a signal And as long as they can pick that up, then they should be able to map And so when I first moved it was just like, &quot;Yes, Like I'm not surprised by that. - But can you clarify, is there between imagined movement - Yeah, just that in imagined movement, you're not attempting to move at all. - You're like visualizing doing. And then theoretically, is part of the brain that lights up in those two different situations? - [Bliss] Yeah, not necessarily. I think all these signals in motor cortex, but the with the naturalness versus attempting it- - [Bliss] And sort of the - And by the way, on the mic is Bliss. So this is just different to kind of get to the - [Noland] Yeah, yeah. - Attempted movement does sound - Yeah, I mean, it makes sense to me. - 'Cause imagine for me, like in my mind, visualizing. Attempted, I would actually there's, I mean, I did like combat sports my When I'm imagining a move, - Exactly. of an activation almost, yourself like a picture doing it. - Yeah, it's something that I feel like naturally, anyone would do. If you try to tell someone they might close their eyes and then start physically doing it. But it's just- - Yeah. It's hard. It was very hard at the beginning. - But attempted worked. It worked just like it should. Worked like a charm. - [Bliss] I remember we were messing around, and I think, I forget what swear word you used, but there's a swear word when you figured out you could just do the direct cursor control. - Yeah, that's it. It blew my mind. Like no pun intended, moved the cursor just with my thoughts and not attempting to move. It's something that I've found like over the couple of weeks, that as I get better cursor controls, like the model gets better, then it gets easier for me to like, like I don't have to And part of that is something with them about when I of my brain one day, I was watching, when I like attempted to move to the right and I watched the screen, It's like I was seeing the before I was actually attempting to move. I imagined just because when or any body part, that signal gets sent before you're actually moving has to make it all the before you actually do So there's a delay there. And I noticed that there was before I was actually attempting to move, that my brain was like And that all started sort of, I don't know, like It was just sort of there, like always in the back. Like that's so weird It kind of makes sense, but as far as like using the Neuralink. And then as I was playing around and playing around with the cursor, and I saw that like, as the that it was anticipating my movements and what I wanted it to do. Like cursor movements, what I wanted to do a bit And then one day, I just randomly, as I was playing Webgrid, before I had started I was just trying to like get over, like train my eyes to start looking ahead. Like, okay, this is the target I'm on, but if I look over here to this target, I know I can like maybe be And I looked over and the It was wild. I had to take a step back. Like I was like, &quot;This All day, I was just I was like, &quot;Guys, do Like I can just think it and it happens,&quot; which like they'd all been like I can't believe like you're doing all this with your mind. I'm like, &quot;Yeah, but is Like I'm attempting to move, and it's just picking that up so it doesn't feel like it's with my mind. When I moved it for the it was, oh man. It made me think that this technology, that what I'm doing is actually way, way more impressive than I ever thought. It was way cooler than I ever thought. And it just opened up a whole of like what could possibly and what I might be able - Because you had felt for the first time, like this was digital telepathy. Like you're controlling a - [Noland] Yep. - I mean, that's a real That's really cool. Like you've discovered something. I've seen like scientists talk Like Nobel Prize winning, they'll have this like holy crap. - Yeah. - That's what it felt. I didn't feel like, like I felt like I had Maybe not necessarily for or like this field at large. It just felt like an aha moment for me. Like, &quot;Oh this works.&quot; Like obviously, it works. And so that's what I do I kind of intermix the attempted movement and imagined movement. I do it all like together, because I've found that there that maximizes efficiency with the cursor. So it's not all like one or the other. It's not all just, I only use attempted or I only use like imagined movements. It's more I use them in parallel, and I can do one or the other. I can just completely think But I don't know. I like to play around with it. I also like to just Like every now and again, I'll get this idea in my head like, &quot;Hmm, I wonder if this works.&quot; And I'll just start doing it, and then afterwards, I'll tell them, &quot;By the way, I wasn't doing I thought of something and I It seems like it works, so maybe we should like - So I think that discovery at least from my perspective, for everyone else who that this is possible. Like I don't think this an obvious thing that this is even possible. It's like, I was saying to Bliss earlier, it's like the four-minute mile. People thought it was in four minutes, and once then everyone just started doing it. So like just to show that it's possible, that paves the way to That's the thing that's actually possible. You don't need to do You can just go direct. That's crazy. - It is crazy, it's crazy. - For people who don't know, can you explain how the Link app works? You have an amazing stream on the topic. Your first stream, I think, Can you just describe how it works? - Yeah, so it's just an to help me interact with the computer. So on the Link app, there and different modes and So there's like the body mapping, which we kind of touched on. There's a calibration. Calibration is how I So calibrating what's going on in my brain to translate that into cursor control. So it will pop out models. What they use I think is like time. So it would be five minutes, and calibration will give And then if I'm in it for the models will progressively get better. And so the longer I'm in it generally, the better the models will get. - That's really cool, 'cause The model's the thing that's constructed once you go through the calibration step. And then you also talked about, sometimes you'll play like like Snake, just to see - Yeah, yeah, so Snake is kind of like my litmus test for models. If I can control Snake decently well, then I know I have a pretty good model. So yeah, the Link app has all of those. It has Webgrid in it now. It's also how I like connect to the computer just in general. So they've given me a lot with it at this point, or implant disconnect. And as long as I have that charger handy, then I can connect to it. So the charger is also how to connect to the computer. I have to have the implant when I wanna connect to have it wake up, 'cause the implant's in hibernation mode, like always when I'm not using it. I think there's a setting to So we could set it to or something if I just want So yeah, I'll like and then go through all sorts of things. Calibration for the I made them give me like because I am very forgetful and I forget to do things a lot. So I have like a lot of that they want me to do. - Is the body mapping part or is that also part of the- - Yeah, it is. It's something that they which I've been slacking on, 'cause I've been doing so much media and traveling so much. So I've been- - Yeah, I've been a for how much I've been But yeah, it's just to do every day to track how well the Neuralink and to have something to give. I imagine to give to the FDA to create all sorts of fancy charts &quot;Hey, this is what the Neuralink, this is how it's performing versus day 180 and things like that. - What's the calibration step like? Is it like move left, move right? - It's a bubble game. So there will be like yellow bubbles that pop up on the screen. At first, it is open loop. So open loop, this is something that I still don't fully understand, the open loop and closed loop thing. - And me and Bliss talked for a long time about the difference between - Okay. your side of the story. - Open loop is basically, I have no control over the cursor. The cursor will be moving on and I am following by intention the cursor to different bubbles. And then the algorithm is training off of what like the signals it's There are a couple different They call it center out target. So there will be a bubble in the middle and then eight bubbles around that. And the cursor will go from So say middle to left, back to middle, to up, to middle, like up, right. And they'll do that all And I will follow that and then it will train what it is expecting my intentions to be throughout the whole process. - Can you actually speak to, when you say follow- - You don't mean with your eyes. You mean with your intentions. - Yeah, so generally for calibration, I'm doing attempted movements, 'cause I think it works better. I think the better models, as I progress through calibration, make it easier to use imagined movements. - Wait, wait, wait, wait. So calibrated on attempted movement will create a model that for you to then use the force? - Yes, I've tried doing calibration with imagined movement, and it just doesn't work So that was the center out targets. There's also one where a random target will pop up on the I just like move, I follow along with wherever the cursor all across the screen. I've tried those with imagined movement, and for some reason, they don't give as high level as quality when we get into closed loop. I haven't played around with it a ton, so maybe like the different ways that we're doing calibration But what I've found is there where I can use imagined movement. Before that point, it doesn't really work. So if I do calibration for 45 minutes, the first 15 minutes, I It just like doesn't work for some reason. And after a certain point, I can just sort of feel it. I can tell it moves different. That's the best way I can describe it. Like it's almost as if it is anticipating what I am going to do And so using attempted at some point, I can kind of tell when I like move my that the cursor is Like it's starting to understand, it's learning like what I'm going to do. - So first of all, it's really cool that, I mean, you are a true You're like exploring how to do every aspect of this most I imagine so many lessons So thank you for being a pioneer in all these kinds of different And it's also cool to hear like feeling to the experience when it's calibrated in different ways, 'cause I mean, I imagine your brain is doing something different, and that's why there's a And then trying to find the to those feelings would But at the end of the that your actual performance on whether it's Snake or Webgrid, you could see like what And you're saying, for the attempted movement works best for now. - Yep, yep. - So the open loop, you that you did something. - Yeah- - No, no, it makes sense to me. Like we've done it with a cursor and without a cursor in open loop. So sometimes, it's just, you'll start calibration and I push towards that bubble. And then when that bubble, when it's pushed towards three seconds a bubble will pop and then I come back to the middle. So I'm doing it all just by my intentions. Like that's what it's learning anyways. So it makes sense that as long as I follow what they want me to do, like that it'll all work out. - You're full of great references. Is the bubble game fun? - Yeah, they always feel so Like, &quot;Oh, we're about to I'm like, &quot;All right, do you Like I'm always asking to, like whatever they need, And it's not bad. Like I get to lie there or sit in my chair and like do these things I get to have great conversations. I can give them feedback. I can talk about all sorts of things. I could throw something on and kinda like split my Like it's not bad at all. I don't mind it. that you get? Like can you do better on the bubble game? - No, I would love that. I would love- Writing down suggestions from Noland. - That's- Gamified. - Yeah, that's one thing that I really, really enjoy about Webgrid is 'cause I'm so competitive. Like the higher the BPS, I know the better I'm doing. I think I've asked at one like if he could give me some for calibration, like I would like to know what they're looking at. Like, &quot;Oh, we see like this number while you're doing calibration, and that means, at least on our end, that we think calibration is going well.&quot; And I would love that, if what I'm doing is going well or not. But then they've also told me like, &quot;Yeah, not necessarily like one-to-one.&quot; It doesn't actually mean that calibration is So it's not like 100%, and they don't wanna like or want me to change things based on that. If that number isn't always accurate to like how the model will turn out or how like the end result, that's at least what I got from it. One thing I do that I have asked them and something that I is towards the end of calibration, there is like a time between targets. And so I like to keep, like at the end, that So at the beginning, six seconds between me popping bubbles. But towards the end, I like Or if I could, get it to like one second between like bubbles, because in my mind, that translates really nicely where I know if I can hit that I'm doing real, real well. - There you go, that's a way to get a score on the calibrations. Like the speed, how quickly can you get from bubble to bubble. - So there's the open loop, and then it goes to the closed loop. - Closed loop. can already start giving you a sense, 'cause you're getting feedback of like how good the model is. - Yeah, so closed loop is when and how they've described it to me, someone who does not I am the dumbest person in the room every time I'm with- - Yeah, is that I am closing the loop. So I am actually now the the loop of whatever this loop is. I don't even know what the They just say there is a loop. And at one point, it's And then I get control and it's closed. So I'm finishing the loop. - So how long the You said like 10, 15 minutes. - Well, yeah, they're trying to get that number down pretty low. That's what we've been is getting that down as low if this is something that people or if some people need to do on a like every other they don't want people to for long periods of time. I think they've wanted to get it down seven minutes or below, at It'd be nice if you never So we'll get there at the more we learn about the brain and like I think that's the dream. I think right now, for me to get like really, I am in calibration 40 or 45 minutes. And I don't mind. Like I said, they always feel really bad, but if it's gonna get me a model that can like break I'll stay in it for flipping two hours. - Let's talk business. So Webgrid. I saw a presentation you selected 89,000 targets in Webgrid. Can you explain this game? What is Webgrid, and what does it take to be a world class performer in Webgrid, as you continue to break world records? - Yeah. - It's like a gold medalist, like well. - Yeah, I'd like to thank, I'd like to thank everyone my coaches, my parents for at five in the morning. Like to thank God. And just overall, my - The interviews with athletes, they're always like that, it's like that template. - Yeah. - So Webgrid is a grid that sells. It's literally just a grid. They can make it as big or A single box on that grid will light up and you go and click it. And it is a way for them to So it's pretty straightforward. You just click targets. - [Lex] Only one blue cell appears, and you're supposed to move the mouse to there and click on it. So I like playing on like bigger grids, 'cause the bigger the It's bits per second that you So I'll say, I'll play and then one of those little squares cell, we call it target, whatever, will light up and you and you click it and - And you've been able to achieve at first eight bits per second. And then you recently broke that. - Yeah, I'm at 8.5 right now. I would've beaten that literally the day before I came to Austin. But I had like, I don't know, like a five second lag right at the end. And I just had to wait until and then I kept clicking. But I was at like 8.01 and and then the next like all stayed at 8.01. So if I would've been able to I probably would've hit, I So I'm there. I'm really close. And then this whole Austin trip has really gotten in the way of my Webgrid playing ability. - Yeah, it's- thinking about right now? - Yeah, I know. I want to do better at nine. I want to do better. I wanna hit nine, I think. Well, I know nine is I'm right there. I think 10 I could hit Like I could do it probably in the next few weeks if I really push it. - I think you and Elon are 'cause last time I did a podcast with him, he came in extremely frustrated that he can't beat Uber Lilith as a droid. That was like a year ago I And I could just tell, there's the entire time was thinking like, &quot;I wish I was right now attempting.&quot; - I think he did it. - He did it that night. - He stayed up and did it that night. It's just crazy to me. I mean, in a fundamental And what you're doing is 'cause I mean, it's not Everything you're doing there has impact. By striving to do well on Webgrid, you're helping everybody figure out how to create the system all along, like the decoding, the the calibration, all of it, how to make all of that work so you can do everything else really well. - Yeah, it's just really fun. - Well, that's also, is like making it fun. - Yeah, it's addicting. I've joked about like when they went in and put They must have flipped a switch to make me more susceptible to make me addicted to Do you know Bliss's high score? - Yeah, he said like 14 or something. - 17. - 17.1 or something, 17.01. - 17 dot, 17.01. - He told me he like does it on the floor with peanut butter and he like fasts. It's weird. That sounds like cheating. Sounds like performance enhancing. - [Bliss] No, like the first he asked, &quot;How good are we at this game?&quot; And I think you told me right then, &quot;You're gonna try to beat me on that.&quot; - I'm gonna get there someday. I fully believe you. - I'm excited for that. So I've been playing, first which really hampers my Basically, I have to wait - Oh, so you can't do the clicks. So you click by dwelling, you said 0.3? - 0.3 seconds, which sucks. It really slows down how much I'm able to, like how high I'm able to get. I still hit like 50, I think I hit like 50 something trials, net which was pretty good, there's one of the settings is also like how slow you need to be moving in order to initiate a So I can tell sort of to start initiating a so I'm not fully stopped over I'm doing it like on my to try to time it just right. So you're slowing down. - Yeah, just a hair (Lex laughing) - This is like elite performance, okay. But that's still, it sucks that there's - Well, I can get down to 0.2 and 0.1. Point one's what- - Yeah, and I've played I have to adjust a ton in order to play with 0.1, and I don't have control It also changes like how Like if I train a model like in Webgrid, like I bootstrap on a model, training models as I'm playing Webgrid based off of like the Webgrid data, so like if I play Webgrid for 10 minutes, they can train off that data specifically in order to get me a better model. If I do that with 0.3 versus 0.1, the models come out different. The way that they interact So I have to be really careful. I found that doing it with 0.3 is actually better in some ways, unless I can do it with 0.1 and change all of the then that's more ideal, 'cause obviously, 0.3 is faster than 0.1. So I could get there. I can get there. - Can you click using your brain? - For right now, it's the hover clicking with the dwell cursor. Before all the thread we were calibrating clicks That was my previous ceiling. Before I broke the record was I think on a 35 by 35 grid And you get more BPS, more bits per second using multiple clicks - Oh, because what is it, you're supposed to do either a left click or a like right click? You use a different color - Yeah, blue targets for left click; orange targets for right - Got it. was with the blue and which I think if I went back to that now doing the click calibration, and being able to like I think I would would like in a couple days max. - Like yeah, you would about his 17- - Why do you think we - Yeah, exactly. So what did it feel like That some of the threads retracted? - It sucked. It was really, really hard. The day they told me was the at their Fremont like right before we went over there. It was really hard to hear. My initial reaction was, Like go in, take it out, and fix it.&quot; The first surgery was so easy. Like I went to sleep. A couple hours later, I I didn't feel any pain, didn't take like any So I just knew that if they and put in a new one like next 'cause I wanted it to be better and I wanted not to lose the capability. I had so much fun playing with it for a few weeks, for a month. It had opened up so many doors for me. It had opened up so that I didn't want to I thought it would've if I had gotten to see the view from like the top of this mountain and then have it all come And I knew like, say, but how I saw it was I was just now starting to climb the mountain. There was so much more And so to have all of that be taken away was really, really hard. But then on the drive I don't know, like five I talked with my parents about it. I prayed about it. I was just like, &quot;I'm not I'm not gonna let this that they have set up for me. Like I wanna go show everyone how much I appreciate all I wanna go like meet all of the people who have made this possible, and I wanna go have one of And I did, and it was amazing, and it absolutely was one of the best days I've ever been privileged to experience. And then for a few days, I But for like the first few days I didn't know if it was I made the decision that to use the Neuralink, even if I lost, even if I like lost out if I could keep giving then I would do that. If I needed to just do like some of the data collection every day or body mapping every day for because I know that everything I'm doing helps everyone to come after me. And that's all I wanted. I guess the whole reason that and I knew that anything I would continue to do, even if I never got to then I was just happy to be a part of it. And everything that I'd It was something that I got to experience, and I know how amazing it's gonna be for everyone to come after me. So might as well just keep trucking along. - Well, that said, you were able to get to work your way up, to So this is like going from So when did you first realize and what gave you sort of the strength and motivation, determination to do it? To increase back up and - Yeah, it was within a couple weeks. - Again, this feels like I'm interviewing an athlete. (laughs) This is great. I like to thank my parents. - The road back was long and hard, fraught many difficulties. There were dark days. It was a couple weeks, I think. And then there was just a turning point. I think they had switched the neuron spikes in my brain. Bliss, help me out. - [Bliss] Yeah, the way the behavior of individual neurons. - Yeah. sort of individual spike detection to something called spike band power, which if you watch the previous segments with either me or DJ, you - Yeah, okay, so when they a light over the head, Like, &quot;Oh, this works.&quot; And this seems like we can run with this. And I saw the uptick in Like I could feel it I was like, &quot;This is better. Like this is good.&quot; Like everything up till this point for the last few weeks, last like whatever, three or four weeks, 'cause it was before they even told me, like everything before this sucked. Like let's keep doing And at that point, it was not like, &quot;Oh, I know I'm still only at, like saying Webgrid terms, like four or five BPS But I know that if we keep doing this, then like I can get back there.&quot; And then they gave me the dwell cursor, and the dwell cursor sucked at first. It's not, obviously, not what I want, but it gave me a path forward to be able to continue using it, and hopefully, to continue to help out. And so I just ran with Like I said, I'm just kind of person that roll with the punches anyways. - What was the process? What was the feedback how to do the spike detection in a way that would actually - Yeah, it's a great question. So maybe just describe first It was basically an So we just did an over to his implants, same way or your iPhone, and that to record sort of averages of populations of neurons nearby individual electrodes. So we have sort of less resolution about which individual but we have a broader nearby an electrode overall. And that feedback, I mean, basically, Noland described it was immediate when we flipped that switch. I think the first day we did that, you had three or four And that was a light bulb moment for, &quot;Okay, this is the right path to go down.&quot; And from there, there's like how to make this So what we care about ultimately is that you can use it independently And to get to that point, it required us to re-engineer the UX, as you to make it something that without us needing to be And yeah, this is obviously the Hopefully, we get back to multiple clicks and using that to control much more fluidly, everything, and much more naturally, the applications that you're trying to interface with. - And most importantly, - Yes. So how is the, on the hover click, do you accidentally click cells sometimes? Like how hard is it to - I have to continuously So like I said, there's a threshold where it will initiate a click. So if I ever drop below that, it'll start, and I have 0.3 seconds to move And if I don't want it to ever get there, I just keep it moving at a certain speed, and like just constantly moving it back and forth to I actually noticed a couple weeks back, when I was not using the implant, I was just moving my hand Like I was trying to keep and I was just doing it to go to sleep, and I was like, (both laughing) - To avoid the clicking. I guess, does that create accidentally click a thing? - Yeah, yeah, it happens in chess. I've lost a number of games because I'll accidentally click something. - [Bliss] I think the was because of an accident. - It's a nice excuse, right? - Yeah. anytime you lose- - That was accidental. - You said the app improved When you first started using So can you just talk that you went through with the team? Like 200 plus pages of notes. What's that process like of- - Yeah. and working together to improve the thing? - It's a lot of me just using and saying, like, &quot;Hey, can Like give me this. I wanna be able to do that. I need this.&quot; I think a lot of it just until someone is actually using the app, using the implant. It's just something that they just never would've thought of. Or it's very specific to even like me, maybe what I want. It's something I'm a little worried about with the next people that come is maybe they will want than how I've set it up, or what the advice I've given the team. And they're gonna look they've added for me. Like that's a dumb idea. Like why would he ask for that? And so I'm really looking because I guarantee that that I've never thought of. They're gonna think of improvements. I'm like, &quot;Wow, that's a really good idea. Like I wish I would've thought of that.&quot; And then they're also about like, &quot;Yeah, what you that's a bad idea. Let's do it this way.&quot; And I'm more than happy But it's just a lot of with different games or applications, the internet, just with There's tons of bugs that end up popping up So it's just me trying to and showing them what and what I would like to be better. And then they take that feedback, and they usually create They solve these problems in They're so good at everything they do. And so I'm just really thankful that I'm able to give them feedback and they can make something of it, 'cause a lot of my feedback It's just like, &quot;I want this. Please do something about it.&quot; And we'll come back and and it's way better than anything I could have ever thought So they're just great. They're really, really cool. - As the BCI community grows, with the other folks with Neuralink? What relationship, if any, Because you said like they set of like ideas of how to use the thing. - Yeah. by their Webgrid performance? - No, no, I hope compete. I hope day one, they like I hope they beat it and they crush it. Double it if they can. Just because, on one hand, it's only gonna push me to be better, 'cause I'm super competitive. I want other people to push me. I think that is important greatness is they need who are going to push them to be better. And I even made a joke about it on X once. Like once the next people get chosen, like qubadi cot music, like other people to do this with and to like share experiences with. I'm more than happy to interact with them as much as they want, more than happy to give them advice. I don't know what kind of but if they have questions, - What advice would you have for the next participant - That they should have fun with this, because it is a lot of fun. And that I hope they because it's not just for us, it's for everyone that comes after us. And come to me if they need anything. And to go to Neuralink Man, Neuralink moves mountains. Like they do absolutely And it's an amazing It puts my mind at ease that I have had like questions about, or so many things I wanna do. And they're always there, and I would tell them not to be with any questions that anything that they're And any help that Neuralink I know they will. And I don't know, I don't know. Just work your ass off, that we try to give our all to this. - So have fun and work hard. - Yeah, yeah, there we go. Maybe that's what I'll just have fun, work hard. - Now, you're a real pro athlete. Just keep it short. Maybe it's good to talk about now that you have a Neuralink implant. Like the freedom you gain from this way of interacting Like you play video games all night. And you do that by yourself. And that's a kind of freedom. Can you speak to that - Yeah, it's what all, I don't know, people in my position want. They just want more independence. The more load that I can take away from people around me, the better. If I'm able to interact with the world without using my family, without going through any of my friends, like needing them to help If I'm able to sit up and not need someone to like sit me up, say like on my iPad, like in and then have to have them wait up for me all night until I'm ready it takes a load off of all of us. And it's really like all I can ask for. It's something that I could never thank Neuralink enough for. And I know my family feels the same way. Just being able to have the at any hour of the day or And I don't know. - When you're up at 2:00 AM I just imagine like it's darkness and there's just a light glowing. And you're just focused. What's going through your mind? (Noland laughing) Or you were like in a state of flow where it's like the mind is empty, like those like Zen masters? - Yeah, generally, it is me I have a massive playlist, and so I'm just like rocking out to music. And then it's also just 'cause I'm constantly looking at how much battery percentage Like, all right, I have 30%, which equates to x amount of time, which means I have to break this record in the next hour and a half, or else, it's not happening tonight. And so it's a little When it's above 50%, I'm It starts getting down to 30 and then 20. It's like, all right, 10%, a little popup is gonna pop up right here, and it's gonna really It's gonna tell me that low battery popup comes up, and I'm like, it's really gonna screw me over. So if I have to, if I'm I have to do it in the or else, that popup is like cover my Webgrid. After that, I go click on And I'm like, &quot;All 10 minutes left before this thing's dead.&quot; That's what's going on that and whatever song's playing. I want to break those records so bad. Like it's all I want It has become less of like, &quot;Oh, this is just a leisurely activity.&quot; Like I just enjoy doing this, because it just feels so No, once I'm in Webgrid, or you're gonna waste like five hours of your life right now. And I don't know, it's just fun. It's fun, man. - Have you ever tried Webgrid with like two targets and three targets? Can you get higher BPS with that? - Can you do that? - [Bliss] You mean, like or you mean- 'cause that change the thing. - Yeah, so BPS is a log times correct minus And so you can think of as basically doubling the - Got it. you get basically higher BPS, the more difficult to task. And there's also like zen which is like- Yeah, it covers the And I don't know. - [Lex] Yeah, and so you can go like, that's insane. - [Bliss] He doesn't like it - I had them put in a giant so now it's like the opposite of Zen mode. It's like super hard mode, It's just like a giant - [Bliss] We should rename that. Metal mode is a much better name now. - So you also play Civilization VI? - I love Civ VI, yeah. - [Lex] You usually go with Korea, you said? So the great part about like science tech victories, Like I've been playing Korea for years, and then all of the So it kind of aligned. But what I've noticed with tech victories is if you can just rush then you can do anything. Like at one point in the game, you'll be so far ahead of that you'll have like plane sometimes, and people with like bows and arrows. And so if you want to you just get to a certain and then go and wipe out Or you can just take science and you're gonna be so 'cause you're producing so much science that it's not even close. I've accidentally won in different ways just by focusing on science. - Accidentally won by focusing on science. - I was playing only science, obviously. Like just science all the way, just tech. And I was trying to get like every tech in the tech tree and stuff. And then I accidentally won and I was so mad. I was so mad, 'cause it just like ends the game. One turn, it was like, &quot;Oh, you won, you're so diplomatic.&quot; I'm like, &quot;I don't wanna do this. I should have declared war It was terrible, but you don't need like giant civilizations with You can keep it pretty small. So I generally just get and put them all around my and then I will just build up. So very isolationist. - Nice. - Just work on the science and the tech. - [Noland] Yep, that's it. - You're making it sound so fun. - It's so much fun. Civilization VII trailer. - Oh man, I'm so pumped. And that's probably coming out- - Come on, Civ VII, hit me up. Alpha, beta tests, whatever. - Wait, when is it coming out? - 2025. What other stuff would about the Neuralink app and - I would like to, like I said, get back to the like click on demand, like the regular clicks. That would be great. I would like to be able to Right now, it's just the computer. I'd like to be able to use it on my phone or use it on different I'd like to be able to control as much stuff as possible, honestly. Like an Optimus robot That would be sick if I could The Link app itself, it pretty dialed in to what it Seems like we've gotten through a lot of what I want from it at least. The only other thing I would say is like more control that I can tweak with my There's a lot of things that go into how the cursor moves in certain ways. And I have, I don't of those parameters and there might- - Like gain and friction and all that? - Gain and friction, yeah. And there's maybe double with just like velocity and then with the actual dwell cursor. So I would like all of it. I want as much control over especially- advanced mode? Like there's menus usually, And you're like one of those folks like- - I go the- - Yeah, yeah. - That's what I want. I want as much control So yeah, that's really all I can ask for. Just give me everything. - Has speech been useful? Like just being able to talk also in addition to everything else? - Yeah, you mean like while I'm using it? - While you're using - Oh yeah. or like, 'cause there's also a keyboard? That's really nice. So there's a virtual keyboard. That's another thing I is finding some way to type Right now, it is like and a virtual keyboard that But we've played around like sign language, finger spelling. And that seems really promising. So I have this thought in my head that it's going to be a that I had with the cursor, where I went from attempted movement to imagined movement at one point. I have a feeling, this that at some point, I'm going and I won't need to actually attempt to finger spell anymore, that I'll just be able to think the like letter that I - That would be epic. - That's challenging, that's hard. That's a lot of work for But that would be awesome. - And then like going from Like you would go from, right now, it's finger spelling of like just the sign language alphabet. But if it's able to pick that up, then it should be able to pick up like the whole sign And so then if I could do or just the sign language spelled word, if I can spell it at a reasonable speed and it can pick that up, then I would just be able and it would do the same thing. I don't see why not. After what I saw with the cursor control, I don't see why it wouldn't work, but we'd have to play around with it more. - What was the process in to go from attempted movement How long did that take? So how long would this - Well, it was a couple weeks before it just like happened upon me. But now that I know I think I could make it I think it would be much, much simpler. - Would you get an - Sure, absolutely. Whenever they'll let me. - So you don't have any concerns for you with the surgery experience? All of it was like no regrets? - No. - So everything's been good so far? - Yep. - You just keep getting upgrades. - Yeah, I mean, why not? I've seen how much it's And I know that everything shit's gonna get better and better. So I would love to. I would love to get the upgrade. - What future capabilities sort of beyond this kind of telepathy? Is vision interesting? So for folks who, for so you're like enabling - Yeah, there's a lot that's I mean, we're talking about the brain, so like this is just motor cortex stuff. There's so much more that can be done. The vision one is fascinating to me. I think that is going To give someone the ability to see for the first time in their it might be more amazing than Like that just sounds incredible. The speech thing is really interesting, being able to have some sort and cut away that language Any sort of like actual like with speech, would And then also, there are a that all originate in the brain. And you would be able to, hopefully be able to solve a lot of those. I know there's already stuff that can be implanted in the brain. This would do, I imagine, the same thing. And so you could do something like that. I know that even someone like the possibilities with being able to stimulate the brain in different ways. I'm not sure. I'm not sure how ethical That's beyond me honestly. But I know that there's when we're talking about the brain and being able to go in and physically make changes to help people So I'm really looking forward to everything that comes from this. And I don't think it's all that far off. I think a lot of this can be assuming that I live a long life. - What you were referring people suffering from depression or things of that nature - Yeah, flip a switch like I know, I think Joe has in terms of like you want to experience like what a drug trip feels like. Like you wanna experience - Of course. or something like that, DMT. Like you can just flip My buddy Bain has talked about of your memory and like for the first time, like your favorite movie Like just wipe that out real quick, and then re-fall in love with I told him, I was like, &quot;I don't know how I feel about like people being able to just That seems a little sketchy to me.&quot; He's like, &quot;They're already doing it.&quot; - Sounds legit. Yeah, I would love memory replay. Just like actually high - Yeah, I saw an episode of I don't think I want it. - Yeah, so &quot;Black Mirror&quot; the worst case, which is important. I think people don't or the average case enough. I don't know what it is about us humans. We wanna think about the We love drama. - [Noland] Yeah. (laughs) - It's like, how's this new We just love that. Again like, yes, let's watch. - Hopefully, people don't think It'll ruin a lot of my plans. - Yeah, yeah. I assume you're gonna have I mean, I loved your Twitter. You tweeted, &quot;I'd like to make jokes about hearing voices in my head since getting the Neuralink, but I feel like people Plus, the voices in my - Yeah. - Yeah. So you're talking about Optimus. Is that something you would to control the robotic arm - Oh yeah, for sure. For sure, absolutely. - You think there's something about just being able to - Yeah, oh, 100%. I know another thing with like being able to like give people the and stuff too by going in with the brain and having the Neuralink maybe do that. That could be something that transferred through the Optimus as well. Like there's all sorts of really cool interplay between that. And then also, like you said, I mean, 99% of the things that I can't do myself obviously need, I need a caretaker for, someone to physically do things for me. If an Optimus robot could an incredibly independent life and not be such a burden and it would change the at least until whatever But being able to interact like that would just be amazing. And they're not just like for being, for having to be a caretaker or something, but something like I talked about, just being able to read a book. Imagine an Optimus robot just being able to hold a like get that smell again. I might not be able to Or maybe I could again with But there's something like a physical book or listening to an audio book. I actually don't like audio books. I've listened to a ton but I don't really like 'em. I would much rather like - So one of the things you would love to be able to experience bringing it up to you. And to feel the touch of the paper. - Yeah. Oh man, the touch, the smell. I mean, it's just like something about the words on the page, and they've replicated that page color on like the Kindle and stuff. Yeah, it's just not the same, yeah. So just something as simple as that. - So one of the things you miss is touch. - I do, yeah. - A lot of things that I like clothes or literally that I interact with in what people around me will rub it on my face. They'll like lay something on They will rub a shirt on Like there's something and it's something that I miss a lot, and something I would love - What would be the first thing you do with a hand that can touch? Give your mom a hug after that, right? - Yeah, I know. It's one thing that I've asked like God for basically every day since my accident was just being able to like one day move, even if it was only like my hand. So that way, like I could or something just to like show her that, like how much I care and how Something along those lines. Being able to just interact handshake, give someone a hug. I don't know, anything like that. Being able to help me eat, like which would be a terrible, terrible thing. - Also beat Bliss in chess - Yeah, yeah. I mean, there are just And any way to find some way to feel like I'm bringing Bliss down to my level. - Yeah. - Yeah. an amazing guy, and everything about him is just so above and beyond to take him down a notch, - Yeah, humble him a bit, he needs it. - [Noland] Yeah. (laughs) - Okay. As he's sitting next to me. Did you ever make sense of why God puts good people through such hardship? - Oh, man. I think it's all about understanding how much we need God. And I don't think that there's I think that if all of us there would be no reason I feel like there would be And I think that as much and the evil that's in the the good and the things And I think, like when I had my accident, one of the first things I said to one of my best friends was, the first month or two &quot;Everything about this understand and believe and that there really is a God, basically. And that like my interactions with him have all been real and worthwhile.&quot; And he said, if anything, seeing me go through this accident, he believes that there isn't a God. And it's a very different reaction. But I believe that it is to build our character, to send us through trials and tribulations, to make sure that we and the things that he's given us and the time that he's given us. And then to hopefully I think that's a huge part of being here is to not just have an easy life and do everything that's easy, but to step out of our comfort zones and really challenge ourselves, because I think that's how we grow. - What gives you hope we have going on, human civilization? - Oh, man. I think people are my biggest inspiration. Even just being at looking people in the eyes for why they're doing And I know that they cushier jobs, working somewhere else, doing X, Y, or Z that doesn't But instead they're here, and and they want a better, the people that they've they wanna make better lives who might have disabilities, and they say, &quot;I can so I'm going to.&quot; And it's always been what I've connected with most in the world are people. I've always been a people person and I love learning about people, and I love learning like and where they came from. And to see like how much for someone like me and they're going out of their It gives me a lot of hope how much we care and how when we all kind of get together and try to make a difference. And I know there's a lot of but there always has been And I think that that is, it shows human resiliency and it shows what we're able to endure, and how much we just want to and how much satisfaction because I think that's one of the reasons that we're here is just And I don't know, that It's just realizing that who still care and who wanna help. - And thank you for being and continuing to be a great human being through everything you've been through and being an inspiration to many people, to myself, for many reasons, unbelievably great performance on Webgrid. I'll be training all night - You can do it. - And I believe in you, that you can once you come back, so sorry to interrupt once you come back, eventually beat Bliss. - Yeah, yeah, for sure. Absolutely. The whole world is rooting for you. - Thank you. for everything you've done, man. - Thanks, thanks man. - Thanks for listening with Nolan Arbaugh, and DJ Seo, Matthew MacDougall, To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, let me leave you with in &quot;The Doors of Perception.&quot; &quot;We live together. We act on and react to one another, but always, and in all The martyrs go hand in They are crucified alone. Embraced, the lovers their insulated ecstasies into a single self-transcendence; in vain. By its very nature, every embodied spirit is doomed to suffer and enjoy in solitude. Sensations, feelings, insights, fancies, all these are private and, and at second hand, incommunicable. We can pool information about experiences, but never the experiences themselves. From family to nation, every human group is a society of island universes. Thank you for listening, and hope to see you next time.