- This episode is I've been trying to stick and have loved using Four to recover from workouts. It's amazing flavor comes and no artificial flavors. Head to foursigmatic.com/babish to get an additional 10% The link is in the description. - [Kid] Cookie Cat, he's Cookie Cat, he's super duper yummy. Cookie Cat, he left his family behind. Cookie Cat. Now available - Hey what's up guys, welcome back to Binging with Babish where this week we're from Steven Universe. Now, I am no stranger Here's one leftover from the Let's see if this is still good. That was 10 months and That's a little freezer burn. Anyway, first things first we got to make us a custom So I got one of these make your own custom cookie cutter kits. Basically a strip of aluminum that you have to bend and crease and arts and crafts were so I don't think this is and it came out perfect. Wow, And speaking of which, we're going to start off If you're just looking with the kids on a rainy Saturday. I got a pint each vanilla and strawberry store-bought ice cream into a quarter sheet using Send it back into the freezer for at least an hour to firm back up and for the exterior of I'm going to take a and make it out of cake. I think that cake is a superior because it stays soft in the fridge. So I got a simple boxed that I'm preparing according but then deviating wildly from said instructions by spreading thin in a large rimmed baking sheet. Baking for about 15 minutes until the top is glossy Then we'll let it cool for before applying my Cookie Cat cutter mold-shaped cutting tool. And using the back of a large piping tip to cut out the eyes. Then we're going to remove the excess cake and grab our ice cream out the freezer. and store-bought ice cream so you're probably gonna want to use the bottom of a large and get your Cookie Cat And we're going to break don't throw it away or anything, it's still perfectly edible. You can use it to make Then on some parchment paper, we're going to plop down top that with our ice cream We're throwing that back in both to bind the cake to the ice cream and to firm up the cake. And there you have it. A quick and easy Cookie Cat you can knock out as a or with your inner kid. Per Steven's instructions, we're starting with the ears It's chocolate cake and ice cream, but it's still more of a cake cat. To make the genuine article, we're going to start by making We're combining one cup half a can of sweetened condensed half teaspoon of kosher salt, and one teaspoon of vanilla extract, and our secret weapon, about This stuff's pretty at the supermarket but is one ounce of mascarpone cheese, diluted with two ounces of heavy cream. This is going to crank up the which is going to help keep Using a hand mixer, we are beating this stuff to stiff peaks. So basically what we're making here is kind of like an enriched whipped cream, which when frozen will and most importantly, bite-able ice cream. We're spreading that out and then it's time to make for which we're going to Which we can optionally roast to amplify their strawberry flavor. You definitely don't have to Why'd you do that, Andy? Yeah, that's what I thought. Anyway, we're roasting these at 350 for about 25 minutes. After which time, they'll but they'll be soft and poke-able and they will have a deeper, So we're going to let these before dumping them into a food processor. Pureeing them into a puree and straining said puree Now our puree is going to, obviously, add a lot of liquid to our ice cream. So, we need to alter the This time, six ounces of heavy cream, six ounces of sweetened condensed milk, three ounces of clotted cream half teaspoon of kosher salt, and one teaspoon of vanilla extract. Beat this to stiff peaks and then we're going to fold in an effort not to that we've whipped into Once you got that all folded in there, you can optionally add which I definitely should have done. Otherwise, you can just pour it in next to your vanilla on the sheet tray, smooth it out using an offset spatula. That's kind of satisfying looking. And just to make sure it's extra flat, top it with some parchment paper and press it down lightly with And we're going to wrap this Don't want to any freezer burn going on and stick 'em in the freezer Plenty of time to make the Now Kendall and I ended up making seven different batches of cookie here because we really wanted to It had to be smooth, it had to not fall apart when and we wanted it to have and I think we finally nailed it. Into the bowl of a stand mixer goes 75 grams of softened butter, 100 grams of granulated sugar, 50 grams of light brown sugar, and a half teaspoon each, And we're going to cream until it is light and fluffy. While that's creamin', we are sifting together 80 grams of high quality cocoa powder with 160 grams of all purpose flour. Adding a third of that mixture to the stand mixer on low speed, combining one teaspoon of vanilla with 110 milliliters of whole milk, which likewise, we're going to allow it to completely incorporate before adding a third of repeating until everything and we have a thick dough Which we're going to place between two sheets of parchment paper and roll out to an even thickness, about four millimeters thick. Peeling off the top so that we can cut out our shapes. It took us several batches to realize that we should cut the cookies out first to prevent cracked and or messy edges. So we're going to cut out our Cookie Cats, cut out their eyes, that sounds wrong, and bake at 350 degrees until they look dry on the top. Allow those to cool completely and then it's pretty much the We're gonna peel the parchment paper off our homemade no-churn ice and then use our mold and to cut out two pieces of ice cream filling that we're gonna place I made mine kind of gigantic so this recipe is only going but likewise, once we get them assembled, we're going to place them in the freezer for at least two hours or wrapping in plastic wrap And there you have it, Cookie The pet for your tummy, that left his family behind. The ice cream is super soft and bite through-able. And despite being frozen solid, despite having a cookie-like crunch. And Stephen is correct I don't think there's any other way to feasibly eat this thing maybe cutting it in half and sharing it because it's the size of a softball. Thank you again to Four Sigmatic for sponsoring this episode. I love their plant-based protein. It's made from functional mushrooms and real vanilla with This means it's also 100% grain free. You can even bake with it. I added a couple of scoops to my favorite chocolate waffle recipe which I sandwiched together to make protein ice cream sandwiches. Four Sigmatic is having up to 50% off products like plus you can get an all sale products. Head to foursigmatic.com/babish The link is in the video description. (upbeat music)