Welcome to my 7-string headless build. Settle in, it's a long one! I prefer building the neck first. It's easier for me to fit the body to an existing neck. I start by planing up a piece of maple for the neck blank. I only need two sides to be flat and square for now Marking the thickness I need with a marking gauge Out comes the big frame saw It's faster to remove material with a saw, rather than a plane. Especially with hard woods like maple. Here I'm splitting the neck blank in two because I want a lamitation in the middle Pllaning the two pieces straight and square for glue-up Using reclaimed european walnut for the center strip First we cut... ...then we plane Removing the finish with a scrub plane works really well Glueing the pieces together to create a multi-laminate neck blank The laminations are supposed to make the neck more stable. I also mirrored the grain in the side pieces to create a V-shape for more stability Can't tell if it made a difference though. Once the glue has dried, the neck blank is planed flat and square again. And the excess removed. The end is planed square using a shooting board. Time for the truss rod channel! This is a Stanley no 50 combination plane, sometimes called a plough plane. It has a guide that follows the edge of the neck, making sure the channel runs exactly in the middle. It takes a while to get to depth, luckily the walnut is easy to work with. The plane leaves a ramp at the end of the channel. I use a chisel to remove it. The other end of the truss rod needs a bit more work A number 71 router plane to make the channel deeper Some chisel work for the barrel adjuster I want to make sure the truss rod is fitted snug, no movement and no rattles I do this by adding a piece of walnut over the adjustment nut With the truss rod channel done, I can bring the neck to final width Starting with a saw... ... and finishing with a plane. The masking tape helps me see the exact line. Next is the indian ebony fretboard Thicknessing with a sharp scrub plane, followed by a low-angle block plane. Frets were calculated with FretFind2d, which I then had printed at 100% scale I mark the tops and bottoms with a knife Then mark each fret A little notch going into the knife wall helps register the saw Every fret slot is then cut by hand following the knife mark It went better than I expected! I use wood binding on the fretboards to hide the slots. I start by marking the width with tape Then plane it down to the line Ebony can be a pain to work with A toothpick through the first fret helps position the fretboard You also need one on the other end Marking a 2mm line from the edge for the binding This is as satisfying as it looks Reducing the width of the fretboard by 2mm on each side I'm using a low-angle block plane to create the initial 20&quot; radius Followed by a radius beam for more precision Then making sure the fret slots are still deep enough for the frets The ebony bindings are cut from a sacrificial ebony fretboard I plane the glue side straight first Then cut with a Japanese saw Repeat the same procedure for the second binding strip Masking tape helps with positioning the binding strips Surgical tubing is excellent for clamping the strips to the fretboard Let glue dry overnight The binding is much bigger than needed I trim it back with the block plane again As I approach the final size, I use a scraper to avoid tear-out With the fretboard on the neck, I can get the width back to where I want it Radius beam again, to make sure it's perfect Removing the excess with a saw We need access to the truss rod adjuster wheel Wait for it... Snap! That was my last blade. Time for plan B. Cleaning up the access route with chisels I like to use files for the final touches Time to glue the fretboard to the neck Using surgical tubing for clamping again. Let glue dry overnight Using a cheap chisel to remove glue I always leave the fretboard just a little bit oversized, which I trim down after the glue-up My guitars hang from a wall, thus even a headless needs wings on the headstock. I add the wings after finishing the fretboard, otherwise they'll be in the way of my handplanes Here I'm using the drill to partially shape them before glueing Shaping after glue-up means I have flat surfaces for clamping Adding an offcut to catch the saw Good catch! Cutting the wings to shape Then create the final shape with planes and files This stunning piece of walnut used to be part of a bathroom cupboard It'll make a much better guitar top Sawing away the excess Then re-sawing the top with by big bow saw. Yes, this took a lot of time and effort. The number 4 with a scrub blade removes the finish easily The grain on this piece was a pain to work with Marking the top to best show off the grain pattern I like to start with the neck pocket first. Bought new blades! Using chisels to get closer to final dimensions These mahogany stairs were reclaimed from a house renovation They're excellent for making guitar bodies Removing the old finish with scrubby Then using my number 6 to clean things up Same process for the second piece Glueing the pieces together Then making sure everything is nice and flat I usually forget about the positioning pins on the body Not this time! Marking the neck pocket Then forcefully removing material Because of the round shape, gouges work really well for this More footage missing because someone forgot to press the record button... So we move on to the pickup cavities! Managed one corner hole before realising the pillar drill isn't deep enough for the rest. So I switched to the hand drill Rough cutting the cavities in the top with a saw Then clean up with a chisel The cavities in the body take a bit more effort. First with the chisel Then with the router plane The sides are cleaned up with a chisel again Do that again for the neck pickup. These cuts are used to transfer the rough shape to the body The control cavity is positioned according to the saw cuts The initial cuts are done with a frame saw The saw was still new at this stage... here I'm checking what it's capable of Trying out a keyhole saw as well. Extending the control cavity to make space for a battery box As always, cleaning up the sides with a chisel An offcut with sandpaper makes a usable tool It needs to be recessed After marking the outline with a blade, I use the router plane to cut the recess It fits, but the rear screws need something to go into Cutting a filler piece to size Which is then glued in place Then planed level Perfect! Next is the cavity cover, but first I need to mark the body shape again This gouge is just right for the corner Mark it with a knife Then bring the router plane Leaving the body partially intact gives me registration area for the router plane Finally, the corner is cleaned up The cavity is neatened up with my Shintou saw rasp... ... an Iwasaki file ... ... and then a normal file. I like to create neat routing for the pickup wires as well I prefer having arm contours on my guitars, so I cut out the top curve first Then plane the upper corner down In order to ground the bridge, I'm using copper tape under the screw holes... ... adding a second piece of tape underneath... ... then sandwiching a ground wire in between. Finally the glue can come out I cut out the body with a bow saw The saw marks are smoothed with various tools A spokeshave... Rasps... Scrapers... And files. The belly carve is quickly taken care of with a spoke shave The cavity cover is made from matching mahogany Next I decide to do the neck carve Here I'm marking the thickness at either side with the Shintou The bulk of the material is removed with a saw Level things out with the Shintou again Then a levelling beam to get it nice and straight The side carves are started with the Shintou Then connected with a spoke shave And finally touched up with a levelling beam While a headless guitar doesn't need a volute, I wanted something there for the looks. That turned out so well, I felt the need to repeat it With the neck carve done, I can move on to joining neck and body Here I'm moving up in 1mm increments to make the holes bigger I like using machine screws because they look cool Time to do the frets. I'm using a zero-fret, making it 25 in total. Nipping the tangs because I use a bound fretboard Filing the last bit away Then we're ready for the press Filling the gap with CA glue and sanding dust Flattening the fixed area with a chisel Then scraping with a razor blade Cleaning up the fret slot Then install a new fret. Lesson learned Trimming the fret ends with a flush-cutter Filing them flush with the end Then carefully file a dome into each end. It takes forever but looks so good. The frets are levelled with a levelling beam Then carefully inspected and touched up until they're perfect. Once level, the crown is re-established with a crowning file Finally, they're sanded to 2400 grit and polished I hate the smell of bone, so I've been using Corian for the nut. It's much nicer to work with, and is available in pretty colours The inial cuts are done with a saw Final shaping on a levelling beam Slots are cuting using nut slotting files Then it's polished up to &quot;shiny&quot; Side dots are a simple affair Drill... Glue... Install... Cut... ... and level. Here I'm applying a black stain to the mahogany Don't worry, the top was masked off Next I applied multiple coats of hardwax oil Dunlop lemon oil for the fretboard Finally we can put it all together! Thanks for watching, please subscribe for more.