- Hey everyone, it's Natasha And today I'm gonna teach you how to make what is probably the most It is a homemade apple pie. This one is loaded with apples. Now the process is a little but you're going to love the results. So let's get started. We'll start with the Place a medium saucepan over medium heat and melt an eight tablespoons Stir in three tablespoons for about a minute whisking constantly. Next, whisk in 1/4 cup of Bring that to a boil then reduce the heat and continue simmering for about three minutes stirring occasionally. This sauce is the secret ingredient. It literally takes less than five minutes but will transform your pie. When it's done, it'll have a light Take it off the heat and let it cool while you prep your apples. You'll need six to seven or you can use your All of the apples together Peel all of your apples and remove the course. To remove the course you can or an apple coring tool, or like this one and I'll leave Once the apples are all peeled You should get about seven Transfer the apples to a large mixing bowl and sprinkle the top with of ground cinnamon. Stir to evenly coat the Next, add all of that and make sure you get every last drop. Stir in the sauce to coat the apples and I'm telling you it's so worth it to spend the extra five for the most incredible apple pie filling. I'm using our favorite homemade that I've been chilling This pie crust is incredible to the video tutorial in the notes. Sprinkle your work surface and roll out your first pie crust. Roll that first crust to about If you find the dough is sprinkle on just a little more flour. The easiest way to transfer is to wrap it around and use a food scraper to loosen the dough in case it gets stuck to the surface. Now simply unwrap it Mold that gently into the plate and you should have a little bit of dough hanging over the edges. Add all of the apple mixture mounting it slightly in the center. And be careful not to get the feeling on the edges of the dough which will make it difficult to seal. Set that aside, then roll the second crust on a floured surface, but this time just to about I found that if you push it'll roll into a much more even circle, which is important because strips out of this for Also, if you're curious, this is called a French rolling I will leave a link to this in the notes. Using your favorite pizza cutter, cut 10 even thickness strips. Making a lattice topping Take one of the long and place it across The first five strips across your pie with the and the shorter ones towards the edges. Peel back the second and fourth strips and place one large strip down the center. Now peel back the alternating strips and add another strip of dough. Continue doing this on the until all of your lattice is complete. Place any remaining scraps of dough around the edges of the pan where needed. Tuck the excess pie dough Once all of the edges are tucked in, you can crimp or flute the And this process is so easy but will make your pie look super fancy. Push the dough in with and pinch around it with two Pat the edges down slightly so that they don't brown Next beat together one egg and brush that egg wash generously over all of the surface of the dough. This will add a beautiful color to your pie while it's baking. Transfer that to the and bake at 425 degrees Without opening the door, reduce the heat to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and continue baking another 45 minutes or until the apples are is bubbling through the vents at the top. Oh, pie. Sweet apple pie. You will not believe how good And once this comes out of the oven, you want to give it at you want those apple juices to thicken up. So that way when you cut into it, it doesn't slide all over the place and you won't burn your mouth. That's important. Been there, done that. Okay, so we're gonna let this rest. (upbeat music) All right, our pie has been And honestly that's the because you just want to jump right in and do the taste test. But that's exactly what because we have been Okay, so big slice for me, here we go. Okay, that is a big piece. But that doesn't surprise you, right? You've watched enough of our videos. Okay, here we go. Yum! And you can see the slice holds together. It's not sliding apart, Okay, lets get that on to our plate. I'm really excited. This is the pie that everyone It looks fantastic. Okay, cool. Let me taste it first. That is worth every second. Fantastic. Just that little bit of cinnamon really amps up the apple flavor. And I love this sweet tart apples, they're perfectly sweetened. This is wonderful. And to be very honest, I love the crust just as I mean it's flaky, buttery, And make sure that you watch our video on how to make this crust. Super simple, just a few It is just like pastry perfection. Alright, we have some very and these guys are the real deal. They know a good apple Come on, guys. Come on, come on, come on. And they're cute too. Okay, here, dig into the pie, babies. You need some help? Oh, you got this. You should give yourself enough What do you think? Is that a thumbs up? You Love it? If you guys are just as excited check out one of our all right over there, such a treat. And don't miss our pie crust recipe. The same crust we used It's sure to become a new favorite.