Hi everyone, my name is Dan Scott... and this is a small extract from my larger loads of value here, but if you do want check out my Figma Essentials course, all right, let's get going. Hi everyone, my name is Dan Scott... welcome to Figma Essentials... together, you and me, are going to learn... everything we need to know to get started we'll use this UI/UX design tool we'll also create some and also, we will look at some of of you as a new UX designer. Now this course is aimed at people new to User eXperience design... even if you are not even that entirely sure don't worry, we're going to and work out our way through First, we'll describe the brief, and how then you'll learn how to create from there we learn how to implement properly in your Hi-Fidelity mock-ups... you'll learn the dos and donts for you'll learn how to create icons, buttons, you'll learn all the scary terms... like components, constraints, they're all very easy ones, we'll also make our lives easier by using to speed up our workflow... we'll build a simple style guide, you'll learn how to make both simple page transitions, and animations. Before the end of this course you'll have ready for user testing... all the way through to collaborating and exporting the right files, to your developer or software engineer... you've got assignments that I set so that you can practice plus you'll have something unique All right, it is time go from Figma zero to Figma Hero... so sign up, and I'll see you in class. Now, the shirt... this shirt made a whole lot of sense... it makes a whole lot of sense later on but at the moment, I've realized probably just creepy... but it's made now, and, we've going so, let's dive into the course, Hello, you made it, congratulations, first things first, is, you need to there is-- there'll be a link on in those exercise files will be the files but also there'll be a shortcut sheet... we won't go to deep into but there are just some you'll need to know by so print that sheet out, and you can also you need a version of Figma... so Figma, go to figma.com... either use the browser version, so sign up, or download the desktop version, you know, no difference between the two, because I'm old and I like for no good reason, because, so it doesn't matter. You'll also know, from only watching that I talk fast, I've had lots of coffee, I do slow down... but if you find that I speak very fast... or maybe English isn't your first language, there'll be, on all the videos there's like and you'd be able to click that I sound a little weird, but it's, and that is it, uh, free version, we are going to use the free version mainly because, it's amazing... it's amazing what Figma versus what is paid... towards the end of the course why you might want to you can get quite far, like a professional free version, but I will show you the perks Also, Figma is always updating... which is amazing, to me means new features come out all the time... they rejig things to make include more advanced features... it is really painful for me because basically, I know this, as soon they're going to go so keep an eye out for that... if it's fundamental stuff I'll re-record just take a look, often it can it's in the same place, does the same job, so clarify that little bit... also check the comments below... either I'll leave a comment or other students will, as well... so just keep an eye out on that... yeah, for lots of updates, all right, let's get on to the next video. All right, let's talk about what Figma it is amazing at rapid prototyping it does do other things, but it is the main tool and they roll in creation which we'll do in this course... a really quick kind of look and feel through to kind of like, really, Hi-fidelity mockups of this website, and this kind of leads me to You can make something that looks enough so that you can go out the best bit about Figma we'll create something, and we'll actually the client, the intended audience, and they can, it's not going but they'll be able to use it enough some observations, and actually you know, what the users want... and if things need to be changed, we can and then get them back to there, So it is about rapid prototyping, quick... you know, changes, and get to a point... where you're like satisfied and you're like, &quot;This has gone through client's happy with it, now, this is is just the prototype, it's not going to it hands over little pieces to CSS, and SVGs, and graphics, and stuff... but not a lot that the developer can use... all end up starting from scratch, lots of things like spacing, and-- but that's what Figma doesn't do, so what you do is you get it and then you either work if you're a developer yourself or you might start, like... if you're-- you might get into HTML if you want to start doing or you might be using something I've got courses on the horizon or something more drag and drop, based on your Figma mockup that you've-- then go and build it in either one of that's what it is, rapid prototyping... and what it's not is, you're not going that's a question I get asked a lot, actually, I forgot one thing, What else is it getting used for? Figma is getting used a lot for like just mainly in the digital space, there's some amazing things you'll-- you'll see as you go through the course, &quot;This would be really handy for doing or Carousels, or a bunch of different it is getting really good at it, you can put a normal page into it, so our people are using it as an Illustrator, and a bit of Photoshop... Photoshop, still required, but... you'll see, it's made for design websites but people are using it for all sorts of not a general design tool, you will find some people using it but does it just perfect... all right, so that's what it is, now this is the end, cut. All right, let's talk about what if you already know, you're allowed and this is not going to be just give you an understanding of like because it comes up a lot. So UI design, the simple way, The UI, User Interface, versus UX, the UI is the way something looks... and the UX is how it works, so often, the way it looks, Now in terms of being a UI designer, like, up until UX became part of my life, I delivered UI design, and that was based a lot like, &quot;Oh, button should be this big, traditionally things go over so there was a lot of that, and I've give but it's a big element missing, the UX, I had an idea what would work, it was like, hypothesis and the UX part of being the taking that kind of UI, that layout... and getting it in the hands of that part of it turns you from you know, the beginnings of a UX designer, and actually testing that, you know, what I hoped it would do... is the client, when they click this button, or were they surprised? Is the language like, let's say and the rounded corners, and the beautiful the UX designer says, &quot;That's great, you know, &quot;Is it big enough, can they is it accessible for people that have-- is the hierarchy of buttons, because it feels like it should be so a lot of that side of things, Now in all honesty, this course because we're learning Figma, the testing side of stuff, some insights as we go along about... what are we doing, but it is broader than what can be but we'll do UI with a little bit of UX... but Figma basically, that was why you signed up, probably... so it doesn't make you instantly the UX part is the, taking it further than giving it out there, getting it tested, and testing things, that's UX. My little example, where I'm example, it's yeah, my bank, updated and it looks beautiful, the UI, amazing, I'm sure it went through some testing, not right at the end though, just simple things, like... let's say that I'm typing in my password, Enter, Enter, no, you got and click the Enter button, so I'm like, it's not hard, that kind of, where you get to the end, when you press Enter you mean, so that's just one thing. Another thing, you go into like person in my standing orders, or, not sure what you but a regular payment that I'm making... so went to, find how to edit it, have to delete it, because couldn't find I know how to use computers, I'm like, maybe have to delete it, I'm like, &quot;I'm going to email him&quot;... now like, who's going to click the name of seems simple, go and have a look... and you do, if you click on the name of but it's missing a couple of things... any sort of indication that underline arrow, big sign, two tip... and the other weird thing about it is, your mouse is kind of moving along... when you go into something clickable, doesn't do that, you just click over it's like clicking everything... that must be hard to turn that thing off, there is a million of one of those but I do have a problem with, and red, why do you bring it in... this feels very ominous, my little colored you know, I say it all the way through but yeah, that's my UX story you'll have them as well, and that's it's keep those ideas open, like... they're terrible, and they're but it's kind of language and stuff you're so that when you're working, or at least, when it comes back from like, &quot;Yeah, that thing I hate as well so UI, UX, that's my explanation all right, next video. Hi everyone, in this video we're we are going to start making then we will make some Hi-Fidelity and one's actually pretty messy, see the screens down the bottom... so we're going to work on these... we're going to build Styles components, let's have a look at one So yeah, this is going we'll design it, we'll make a form, people can purchase both our persona and our Task Flow... so let's talk about So we are going to focus on the software kind of general UX design advice so what are we working to? We've got that wants us to design a few pages the Task Flow here in this case is, goes to some features those that product can and then once the credit card details so that's what they've they've given us our persona... so let's quickly talk about So this is just a bare bones they can run to one whole page, and this is going to be enough what is it for? but our ideal customer Sarah's in her 20s, she works for herself, and she lives in Ireland, she has never and some of her concerns very Eco-environmentally So why do we have a persona? It's to allow us to be specific... not specifically to Sarah herself... Sarah is representative of a, a group of people that are going and it helps me distance myself... otherwise I end up building things based on my own history, So this gives me boundaries, either designing for yourself, because you end up with that doesn't actually work so our persona helps us it also helps when you are dealing with because you can detach your own like I want Brush Script, but what does Sarah like? and her situation, and it does, it helps with those from what Dan likes as the designer... what the client likes, and let's talk about and that's through to like language, types of imagery, like what features should be you know, some of the preferences she has, Now this is just like a super quick we're kind of learning UX design a UX researcher will and potentially produce, you know, and understand Sarah a lot more so I guess it's a kind of a broad and if you are new, my advice to you now, or after this course, so to get a better understanding... just know that this is a very but good for what we Now Task Flow, Task Flow here, we've been given... instead of designing all we've been asked to design a certain so we have to design this Home page, all the product features, so this is a nice simple Task Flow, they can be less complicated, you know, Task Flows could how, you know, how does a person cancel you might be designing maybe it's the sign up process, how to download it might be a specific thing on your particular app or website... so let's consider it a Task Flow... and also, actually, let's throw in So Task Flow versus user flows and there's this great article here I'll put a link on the screen here... and after this video do spend a bit more time but I'll give you the brief rundown... so basically Task Flow, they've got the pancake Task Flow... so I'm going to look at this, very simple, kind of like what Home Page search for find the super banana pancake recipe, it's step-by-step, it's sequential, whereas a Task Flow is a lot more So this one here, can you see... we end up with... it's the same kind of process, and you end up with but there's a lot more there's more than one option, like this option is, like the big one are they going to use they'll task low up above, said but there is going to be-- your persona might not be and they're going to go this way, so no, so then we're going to have the browsing the categories, then there's a breakfast page... and they're finding pancakes and then they click on the recipe and they've ended up but it's a different there is, you can see the key up here, they're different shapes for different these are interactions between and these are decisions, So user flows are more complex, so you've got to make sure that you if you're designing a user flow and a bigger job, whereas a Task Flow Now you will have Task Flows can you still see our Home page banana is still there, it's just kind of or different pathway that a user flow will help you find more things, or where people get stuck in a loop, so yeah, that's the brief Another thing to mention is that... we've been asked to design a mobile so an app, you just have because it's a mobile website... it means you're probably not only the mobile version but maybe so that can often catch you out does somebody ask you to you're going to have to... the developer is going you know, how the site breaks down or up into a desktop version, but our focus here is Lastly, this is a pretty you know, we've got a persona, and often a brief can be like designing a whole website... and sometimes you can get So for me as a designer, what would is how much do I know about Scott I would like to see, or I have my Product Manager or you know, whoever is in charge, what are their values, to help me kind of help to kind of build another level on there... and sometimes you won't get that If you get given something they're probably going to have so you can go off and find that, when you are designing better conversations when you are referencing versus where they're you're going to get jobs where there is and they haven't really thought about it, do your best with what you've got, push back for those types of things... it's probably conversations that the more experienced I get... like not just a persona but like, where is the direction we're going, to really influence my design work, this is a good starting point let's let's move on. Hi everyone, it is time for we're not going to call it homework, they're here to-- you can ignore them, but it will really help you solidify so that you can create that is unique from the course that is great for and the first one is to so we saw in the last video that So that's my one, go to this website that so randomprojectgenerator.com ... I want you to enter your last name... or your pet's name... or a friend's last name, for the company, Manurewa, it was where I was born, you know, Ireland as a country... if you're in a big country put in and then click make sure we're on and click 'Generate My Project', and you So I've got Shadow Surfboards, and so this gets do not hit Retry, I just want you to pick the first one some of the more tricky objects... tricky personas is... one of those things that will really don't hit it... and yeah, have a little read through, and it's going to be unique in some ways, but the actual thing we'll build together so we'll follow the same Task Flow... you're going to use Home page, Product whatever the product is... and it just means though that when we're still going to draw a button, but you're going to be using colors and when I say bring in an image... instead of bringing in headphones surfboards or whatever you're still going to have so they're going to have but at least at the end you're kind of unique for plus it's going to get you and how you might kind of design So follow along in this course, which I'll get you to make in picking your own images So once you've done it you or copy it to clipboard, and just store it away on ready for later in the course... we're going to put them together on a kind Another thing I want you to do, so we've so you've downloaded it, something, you've got it somewhere, and let's bring in the Task Flow as well, so it's going to allow me to show I don't know, interesting for Figma... Figma really wants everything so go back to your or if you're on a PC go to the little it's about here, it says, go to files, be on your drafts, rather than it being shared with you, look for that icon, it has moved and in your Exercise Files is load that in there, you can open it, have a look... basically it is just... our Task Flow... and we'll copy and paste that, but you've got your Task Flow, or at least persona and name, so go do that as homework, Hi everyone, in this video we're between wireframes and Hi-Fidelity... well, it's pretty easy, you can see... wireframes are pretty budget, and they'll call them Hi-Fi, Lo-Fi, and Hi-Fi is High Fidelity... this one's going to be really and do not try and skip skipping the wireframe section of your you can probably knock up always Hi-Fidelity, playing with the tracking, and you will not get a better test out you know, we're being assigned we can really easily create a wireframe I'll show you how to do that, it's like, super quick, super easy, like, &quot;Oh, is it the right image... is that the right font, you're talking about the Task Flow... like the actual mechanics of and we can test it quickly Wireframes don't have to look like this, Another wireframe that I downloaded, buttons, got color in them... pick one color only, gray and a color you want to take away the design elements or at least, you know, decline going... &quot;Oh, I don't like pink,&quot; or, you want to take all of that when you're designing wireframes... keep it simple, Another wireframe, slightly nicer... yeah, somebody spent some time on and yeah, you can, you know, wireframes further a really simple one, another sketchy one, I think that's too close but I like the sketchy lines so they're all Lo-Fi wireframes. Hi-Fi, it's in the same document, this one here, another Hi-Fi, a lot more but for testing you only need the basics... so that's why we're doing wireframes... and you have to do it because that's we're going to learn lots building the wireframes before we start... building our super beautiful things all right, let's actually get started So let's make our first design file... so it can be a little confusing yours is going to look different from mine if you have nothing like mine you might and click on the little drop down... if you're somewhere else you might have and then this little drop down... and what you're looking to do might be a bit blurry here because but click on your name, and you should get to something What we want to do is a new design file so what I've normally done in the past... is I go to-- we're going to and it's this little +, so, either way we're and there we go. All right, if you're brand new so all these little pop-ups... you can show stuff, I'm here to show you, you end up with this big nothing screen... so we've got our design file, frames of these guys here, this little and you can draw out any size frame, so if we're drawing an app, we're oh, go back to this tool here, draw out you can have multiple frames, desktop one, tablet one, but at this early stage of the course... think of them as a page or an artboard, and what we need to do is delete them click anywhere in the inside of them, all right, so go to your Frame tool... and actually, let's be a little bit more over here you'll have you are going to be in the future, I'm going to use iPhone 8, it's a nice some of these big ones get Now the goal here is to pick we're not going to design every we're going to design something close and our developer will build something and will adjust for the kind of So pick a phone size it's easiest just to Google, and you will get something and you'll get something in here, if you're designing a watch, if you're old school paper, the wood stuff... there's all sorts of things in here, Now I'm going to start with the phone, even though it's really old, hey, it is, but it's a good generic size... 375 pixels, I like... you can adjust afterwards, you can say, actually, I'm going to use 400 I'm going to undo that because and again if you're watching in you can type in this, 375667 but hey, go with whatever The other thing I tend to do is what kind of phone my client has... because they're going to be potentially so I want to make sure, I might use that just so that the mock-up So we're going to end up with because iPhone 8, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, so we're going to double click or you can double click over here if you can't see the layers double click it, either one, remember our Task Flow. we've got, we'll call it the Home page, we want another one, click on 'iPhone 8', again, and just keep going the way through... we're not going to do huge amounts but we're going to have to learn a few. The first one's going to be space bar, it's pretty common in lots of design and I'm going to name it in this one... so remember, our Task Flow is another shortcut that we use quite a lot... is you can just copy and paste these 'Command C' on a Mac, so 'Command V', we've got another one, I say no shortcuts and then let's put in our four pages, we're going to do that, Product Details, copy, paste, space bar, click and drag... we're going to do our Confirmation. So in the same document there's then go, actually, so I'm going to click on 'Frame', and I'm going to say, we're going to because that's the one I own... and over here, landscape, portrait, you can remove them, drag the name, space bar around, you might say copy, paste, we're going to have Home page... Product Details, I'm just going fast here because we're maybe practice playing around with it... if you, see this one's iPad Pro you can click on this frame a normal kind of standard desktop, really common and generic... now zooming in and out, and just hit the plus and minus keys. There's a million different ways of I'm going to give you one way that I think or just the generic best way... if you do find another way, I'm not using the hold option, hold that's what I can do, to zoom in and out, What I want you to do is, I'm going to select all of these, it defaults to it every time, so you I'm just going to delete it, this is where if you end up in the middle of nowhere, I'm going to zoom out, use my space bar, So this is what I want you to get to, four boring old frames, and the last thing I want to show you... kind of kicking off this, is naming your file... just so you know, you're going to it just happens... I don't know, this program loves So we're going to be really specific if we click off in the background here, if you've got something selected have nothing selected, and you can click up here, and you've already got your brief, right? So mine is Scott, yours is going but we're all going to call ours 'Ecom V1', the name of your company, and put so V1, just something, as long as you're not like a Final person, if you're laughing, it's, I'm talking to you, there are some sweet features later on... for like versioning within the document, Another thing is, if you have got let's go back to, or go back to, yeah, remember, make sure you're at your and what you'll notice is, Ecom 1, if you've got lots of untitled you can right click them and go or open them up and do back to this tab, back to 'Home', Home base, into our work, All right, that is our basic setup, the whole thing is called a design file... frames have other sneaky settings, that but for the moment consider but they call them frames, Hi everyone, we're actually going to and what I'm going to do over is I'm going to introduce and the next one's going to be like and just the stuff that we need I'm just going to touch on them, we'll get deeper and deeper into click every button to do we're going to get all the basics in... and when appropriate throughout the course, so let's get started. In this video we're going to look at Type, all right, so let's start off with if you hover above stuff, and the shortcut is T, on my keyboard, I'm not going to go through but if there's one that you're and it should tell you what it is, All right, so we've got two kinds and you can type forever... that is this one here, because I know that off by heart... and the other type of box you're going so grab the Type tool, instead of clicking once, we get this option here which is and this one is, just means that when and we'll use both of these in this course, so I'm going to undo, if you don't know, if you're on the browser version you'll see the shortcut So we're going to do two things, so Type tool, click once, so mine is Scott Headphones... when you finish you can just kind of like and you can move it around, and stuff... grab the Type tool again, and let's and we're going to type in so just type in something, like... &quot;This is our marketing message&quot;... you've got to be at this stage, it depends on who it's best to keep try not to use language, you know, because you might send off to testing, they might end up testing, you know, it might be controversy &quot;That's not right, So at the moment we're just going to to take out any sort of variables for our now you can switch these later on... let's say that this one here, we want so we can click it here, same with and the difference now is, kind of blows out of the box, So you can change them later on, I'm using my shortcut, to get back to-- undo's aren't as consistent, as you undos, can you see, the undo didn't put it's undoing my Type, this is pretty common throughout Figma... sometimes you can, like draw an arrow... change the arrow head, hit undo, this may change over time, but it's Sometimes if you hit undo it decides does bits of it, I've got it selected I've made sure it's a kind of fixed size... I'm going to drag it out because what I'd like it to do is, just the basics here, the basics over here, not going to cover font size is a little drop down, go to something nice and big... you might have to select your text first, highlight it, and say over here, and because it's a fixed box it's going left aligned, centered, One thing I will show you is that, let's that little icon there is the line height, any of the icons, so I'm going to if you see the little icon, over here, on any of these little icons, So I tend to do this quite and you'll see me dragging line height, and tracking, so that's one little trick, let's say this is not draggable, but if you click in here, and, if I hit the arrow key on my keyboard, use the up and the down, if you in 10s, units of 10s... so that's true of like every box in here... if I want the width to be a bit wider, or hold Shift, go up in big chunks... I'm making the width of this undo, undo, wrecking my boxes... but for the fonts I use it quite a bit, I'm looking at my desktop, I'm just kind of checking, is this Now when it comes to fonts here... there's a couple of things, you've got to really be at 100%... at the moment we're at 86, but if you're picking font size you've got to try and pick you don't want to be trying to pick because you can make it too big... and this, because this is going it's a mobile website, it's not an app... but it's only going to be viewed through you know, ratio, this height... it's best to be actually I'll show you a little bit later we can actually preview so don't be spending deciding, is it 12, should it be 16, 14?... actually, get it onto the device All right, the last thing when you are kind of at especially for a wireframe is I want you a font that has zero character, sorry, Roboto, and I don't want, you know, or even if it's a beautiful font we want really plain fonts here, we want feedback, not on like, or, &quot;That's not communicating right,&quot; you know, bring that into the conversation, and just have it very, very simple... it'd be really common to use something like Roboto, Open Sans, what's another one? Source Sans, Source... you can tell, it means, these guys are they've got no, they're clear and they are professional... and great for a wireframe, so whatever you decide, we're going to use Roboto for this, the most generic of them all... plus it has a lot of weights that if you don't have Roboto you can it is, yeah, it is pretty common you can use Arial or Calibri, actually you're not allowed to use Arial All right, so we've picked we're going to throw in a few so we've got our-- we're just going to even if you have, it's probably appropriate to throw it in, because the brand isn't being we're just going to I'm going to play around Now this is where I break like, &quot;Hey, don't pick a font that and then you can't help yourself, you're if you want leading to go back to 0, and it goes back to Auto, and even then oh, wrong one, this one here, just tuck it yeah, do as I say, don't do as I do... don't be playing around with and making it, your wireframe looks good, it's hard to stop that, So we need a couple of things, we're going to copy and paste, and when you do copy and paste, so there's only one if I copy and paste in Figma so there's two of them right over the top, We're going to have a Buy Now button... &quot;Buy Now&quot;... Now I end up duplicating, you may or may not do this... on a Mac you hold down the 'Option' key, it's a little, that arrow there... on a PC it is your 'Option' key, so if so Selection tool, hold down that key, drag it out, and you get a second one. Figma is really good at lining things up, I've got a Buy Now and a Learn More. We are going to go centered I need another one up here, I think that's all the text we're going All right, so we will go into a little but see this little dotted line down here, it's pretty amazing how deep it does go, loves a bit of ligatures and... all sorts of amazing things, you can see, decoration, underline, So there's a lot, you can start doing uppercase, we will look at little bits but here's all the, if you really want to So it is, most of it's just sitting here, they call it the Right panel, sometimes this thing here, on the right, this little dotted line All right, we've actually made something, let's get into the next video, make some, I'll see you in the next video. Hi everyone, this video we're and some circles, very exciting, let's jump in... all right, let's first of all put in we're going to put in I'm going to use my Selection tool, and then I can drag it down, let's grab the 'Rectangle' tool, that you'll probably they're all hiding in here, see, rectangle, So 'R's for the Rectangle tool, so I'm going to click, hold, and drag and you'll notice, our text disappeared... so this brings us to layering... so over here, if you can't see it, you'll see, there's my Home page frame... inside of that, all these different things, now we've got a rectangle so we can do a couple things, and it's just that shortcut, you'll learn learn the different shortcuts, you might be ready for shortcuts, you so just right click and say, or I want you to practice, can you see here, I can drag this, kind holding it, holding it, dragging it, and I can see it, easy. I'm going to undo it, mainly because there is a ton of ways and I'm going to show you the way that and what's really common and useful... but if you find a different way, &quot;Hey, why didn't he show us if you find it , and you like it, but let's say this one here, if you're on a Mac you've got which is exactly the same as Edit... where is it? no, I don't want Arrange, Object, you can see how much I use So you can, on a Mac, you'll see these on so File, there's File, So often, I use these ones but I know, if you're using these aren't there, these are exactly the same... so I'll try to remember that I'm going to go to 'Object', but you might find in this course to arrange up the top here, and you're there it is there, look, so I'm going yeah, loads of ways of Let's kind of get that you'll notice, Figma's just naturally center of boxes, center of artboards... and just drag it around, there are the full-on Arrranges along Arrange to the left, but often just All right, let's do our buttons so I'm going to zoom in, 'Command +', and I'll hold my 'space bar' key down, okay, 'R' for the Rectangle tool, drag it around, you can drag it over here, what's the shortcut to go It's that square bracket, '[', there it is, down, up, So I've got that button, I'm going to hold you might have to resize this... I want to move on to because when I say do not, whatever it's hard, because you're like... &quot;I want rounded corners, I'm going to make some so with the Rectangle selected... you might notice these little dots, if I zoom right out, minus, '-', so those little dots in the corners if you can't see them just keep yeah, they're there... zoom out, there's a level, zoom one more in, and you're like, there you go, You can do it, I'm going to go the shortcut is, where is it... so this is the long way, 100%, see this, I was like, what is that one, &quot;What the heck is that guy?&quot; have to look at my keyboard, luckily it's So 'Shift 0' on the top there, because that's probably a better place because you're like, So if I'm doing it here, in my kind of Property Inspector here... this Right panel, I can say, using my arrow keys, remember, oh, how's it, look up another one... smashing it up, down... so I'm going to just put in It's handy because you can get click on this one, they're all going to because we are doing rounded corners, but if I click on this, you can actually hold down the 'Option' and actually just click one of them, undo it, because we don't but you probably like, &quot;Can I do one by itself?&quot; just hold down the 'Option' key and click it and drag it. Now before we go let's add our so the Circle tool, I'm going to drag it out... another thing that I haven't if you want it to be completely you hold down the Shift key so watch this, I'm going to and before I start dragging, and you see, perfect circle, ellipse or oval... back to holding Shift, Now for the moment I'm going to put it down and click once, and I hit my '+'... and I'm going to pick Now with Type, I want to move it, click off in the background, and then font size, in here I'm using my up arrow... to get it to a kind of size that I want... kind of weird for that... here we go. All right, that is going to be circles, exciting rectangles, oh... one little bonus thing for circles, look at this, see the circle, You probably already dragged it, Absolutely useless, never used it... I can see, I'm like, I have not mocked up sorry, pie chart is what I want, that's what that thing does... anyway, let's get on to the next video. Hi everyone, just a quick little segue, see if you're enjoying the course, If you think it's good enough for and think about subscribing got lots of other stuff like this, also know that this is a short part like this is the first 20-ish videos... so if you're enjoying this the full course is about it's exactly that... and what you're seeing on screen now... so these are some of the things that so if you want to go further on there will be a link in the description... or there should be a card come check out the full course, otherwise all right, carry on, All right, I hope you're sitting down, you ready, steady, boom, it's not very exciting, I know, you don't need a lot of colors... when it comes to your wireframes, but hey, we're learning let's jump in, and I'll show you All right, to work with color, we're going to use this that's the default color for Figma... or you just click on it, and you get this little guy, if you've there's little dots, where our color is, so at the moment you can only pick red, drag it along to the kind of zone I'm going to pick some and then move this around to get the... full saturation, no saturation, Other things you should know about just click, drag, and drag it like past... you know, like just keep going, and either of these dark ones down so white, black, or that one is black, and I'm going to pick some sort So you could pick it from the brand, is the, probably the most common it's the default in like XD so we end up seeing this kind of like... tealy blue thing throughout, I'm going you pick anything you like. Other things to know about color is, you can make things slightly transparent, I bring this all the way to the front, you can see, it's kind of covering I'm going to go back to, actually, it doesn't matter whether you do it here... you can see it there, 100%, and you say, I want it to be 50... or, same again, you can kind of to kind of go through it all. So I want mine to be a 100, perfect... and if you are a bit more of a color nerd, Hexadecimal numbers, that's the kind you might not like that, you might like it's RGB-A, so you can still get Red, Green, Blue, you might be a corporate spec manual, and other colorways, CSS... you probably, if you're a developer your RGB-A colors, Hue, Saturation, and Luminance, I use this quite a bit, actually, do I do it in this one, I do a lot in things, in like Premiere so I'm going to stick to Other things I want to point out so we've got this here, I want to go to my 'Fill Color', click on the little can you see up here, there's like I can move it around, can you see, so it's, you know, ours is pretty easy, sometimes you're trying to pick a teeny but it's going to be that weird light gray. So Eyedropper, I'm going to you, Eyedropper, you... now to get to the Eyedropper, very often, the color picker to do it, so I'm going so I select on it, there is the shortcut like I, not e-y-e, the letter I... it's a shortcut, so selected it, there's a lot of that going on... however you want to get that... this, all the same color for me, don't try and add a bunch of colors... keep it really, just black, a color just to sex it up a tiny bit. When you start adding color palettes different parts, you know, &quot;Oh, is this the right color, just keep it generic, keep it gray, Last thing about colors is... down here, can you see, you're like, &quot;Oh great, these are so this though gets mad big, it's fine for the moment, &quot;Okay, I want to go back to there it is, there, or there's that green, is that the green? it gets, yeah, later on we're going and we're going to look it's quite later plus we're going to look at in the not too distant future, and get a bit more consistent... the Document Colors will show everything so it gets a bit mad, All right, that's the basics of colors, actually, we're going nowhere, &quot;You can't do that, Dan&quot;... so this needs to be bigger, some responsive buttons later on I can't live with this, needs to be bigger One of the things I want to show you, is because you want to like you can hold down the 'Option' key and when you're scaling things, and then trying to move it around, 'Option, key on a Mac, kind of does it from both sides, All right, now we can move on &quot;Is that even in the middle, Dan?,&quot; that is better, let's do the same thing I got closer with that one, some of you and then some of you be like, &quot;Oh, &quot;Will he ever get rid of the full stop?,&quot; anyway, let's get on Hi everyone, in this video we're Strokes around the outside, we'll look at Burger menus, but we'll also look at the ends here, they've got nice little rounded lines... instead of this kind of like we'll look at setting that every time we draw something, rounded corners, and the Stroke, we like, there's a few things we cover in So let's do our Stroke, so we're the Stroke is this one here, by default to add a Stroke hit and we've got a black Stroke the Stroke width, we can drag... I'm going to put in just two for mine... do you have to have a Stroke around stuff? The one thing you will get annoyed about you've decided that this green, with that &quot;I'm going to draw another one, 'R' for my Rectangle tool, it's gray again, it's got no Stroke &quot;So I'm going to go over here and go slightly mad trying to get so what you can do is you can &quot;Actually, I like that... I like my rounded corners, and I can go change it so let's go to our little 'Figma' and there's this one here, it says, nothing really happens, but now if I click off, grab my Rectangle I got a sweet green rectangle with and yeah, rounded corners. So that is how you set the defaults, another thing you can do is... because these are already drawn in I want it to now look like this... so we don't have Style set up, what you can do is you can 'Edit, 'Copy his properties'... these are his properties over here... and we go copy them and it doesn't matter if we go to Edit, Paste Properties, we can click more than one, and let's go 'Edit', so that's Stroke, we got on a bit of a tangent let's look at doing a little so I'm going to zoom in, remember you can kind of get up here-ish, and let's look at-- let's drop down so you just kind of click and hold it... and we'll show you other things, and I'm going to use my Line tool that didn't work, I don't know why... click, hold, and drag... it will try and be straight, if it's hold down the Shift key, Shift key remember, it did with the Circle tool, with the Line tool, it just makes it go So I want something kind of that long... don't worry about how long it is just yet, then we'll go out to 100%, so we're going to grab this guy, so we're going to remember, copy and paste has well, it's not weird, so remember, I tend to just hold down my 'Option' key on and just drag another version out... and that really wants to go I'm going to introduce one more &quot;If this guy introduces another close your eyes, or your ears... I'm going to introduce you really common in Figma, duplicate, do it again, So command D will just do so I can go Command D, D, D... it's great when you're doing like lists you just want to kind of like... make a new one, it doesn't matter so let's say I want some Type drag it out, holding my 'Option' Command D, D, D, D, you can open your ears now, people So with these lines here, you're like, The best way is to copy I'll show you kind of some of but if you are building stuff on your it's best to be, or at 100%, up here... so that you've got a good because if you have them like this or if they're going to just not that fun, well, so I got lucky with mine, I think so what you can do is just grab the corner and scale them to what that feels good to me... and I'm going to put them position for a navigation, or the Nav Sandwich... that thing you click, really common in the top right, So let's look at a bit more Stroke-ey because I want the little bubble ends... now, over here, my Stroke, so start and end point, they do you can put an arrow at the end, that's maybe this is just on my machine, that's one of those quirks... I'll leave it in this course is it just on my computer? No, I think it's universal, it's probably it's one of those updates some developer's bug fix list, because I can go back to None... but my undo doesn't turn those off... we've gone off at a tangent, because I want to show you these, So your Stroke at the moment just finishes the second one, I'm going to go, and that is the pretty one that I want... so it's, the Stroke still ends there little round, that's a butt cap, and this is going to be a square cap... see this one here, look at the difference the Stroke is the same size... underneath, but this has got this has got an unfortunately and that has got a nice round cap... that's what I want, you'll see mixed quite a lot, and it doesn't know what to say... instead of going, &quot;Question mark, which means one of them... they're all sorts of different things, which only partially worked, oh yeah, there we go. All right, so what have we learned? There are some quirks to Figma, we've learned about Strokes, actually, with images, we've written, but it's actually more common to just there's a placeholder so, I'll just grab my Line tool... and I'm going to go, and this corner... you got to go back to so it'd be really common that's kind of a visual cue, that, but it's not available right now. The other thing you might do, is instead of those lines I'm going to... get rid of them for a second is we can put in a like an icon so a really common one for this... is an icon, I'll show you. So it's in your Exercise Files... so how do you bring in an image, You can go up, there's couple of ways, so it's weird, under your Rectangle tool... is where you bring in images as well, there's the shortcut, you can go to Edit... no, 'File', 'Place Image', but I'm going to bring in an image... under your 'Exercise Files', bring in the one that says 'Icon Image'... and click 'Open'... and within-- with this... if you bring in an image, at gigantic size, or whatever size go back to my 'Import Image'... find him again... is you can click and drag, and it and what you'll notice is that killing me inside, hold down the 'Shift' key, remember, same thing with like and the rectangle that would be very common as well We are going to not do that I don't really care... lines, actually no, keep the lines there... because we're going to look at that is kind of reliant on having all right, that is Strokes 101, Hi everyone, I'm going to briefly this kind of stripy lines, you might be trapped in here right now, let me show you how to escape, So I want to introduce because if you're a double clicker... you've probably already been in there by So I'm going to grab my Rectangle tool, and normally you can just kind of &quot;That's, I imagine, how I want it&quot;... but if you want to like say break you double-- well, there's the official way so I've got it selected, look, there's click on that, except this top menu click on that, we'll go over them in more detail but I want to, yeah, I want to get So the official way to get into it, and what you can do is and drag it, and you're like, or, you know, manipulated it... you can also click the center, click on this edge here... delete the top part. So that's what object editing mode is, you know, that rectangle, I show you here because me, a lot of so I'm going to undo that... now the official way to get out but the normal way, the way most people do, so official way, unofficial way, double click it, I'm going to delete that I don't need it, what Object Editing mode was, all right, on to the next video. Let's look at Scaling versus because you're going and they're a bit quirky from other caught me out at the beginning, So with my Selection tool I'm just I'm not in Object Editing mode, and all I want to do is, I've got and I can click the edge, that's kind of how you imagined it... and that's most of the time what you'll notice is is that the Stroke and if I do something else, both the text and the rectangle, and I drag it out, that's weird, hold Shift, still doesn't work, So there's times where you actually Stroke, Type, everything, hiding underneath the Selection tool, don't hold and drag, just click and hold, click on that, and I can just click and drag this, and if I hold nothing down, scales it up, both the Stroke, and the font and the rectangle, let's say in this case I've drawn this, so I'm going to go to my Scale tool, in both the font, and my little Stroke gets smaller... I'm going to bring it to the front Even if you group stuff first... you still got to use a Scale tool, let's say that we do, what have we got? select them both, I'm going to say, you are group, and I'm going to use my normal it still does the same thing, nope, still does the weird stuff. So you're going to switch to that there's a shortcut, and you're like... &quot;Excellent, that's easy to remember&quot;... it's probably S, nope, it's K, I don't know why... but don't worry, the S tool, if I hit S... it's the Slice tool that nobody uses... there's people out there, it's a big waste of a good shortcut... though we have to use K, So V is the shortcut for and K, you end up toggling, I go... again, I'm trying not to do just the ones that are really helpful, I'm going to beat them into you so you're going to go to the end, &quot;I know it's K, I know it's V,&quot; and it's hard to remember them all right, it's K, and you can so back to the Selection tool, Hi everyone, the differences between up until now in this course it's like the Type tool, does what you imagine, like it's not rocket science... ready for this video to I introduced it earlier it was probably the hardest thing I had so I'll introduce a little bit now a little bit more, and you know, you will become master of frames... but if you get to the end of &quot;Oh, I kinda get it, but I don't I'm introducing it early so that all right, let's draw a bunch of shapes up here, we'll do Rectangle tool... we'll do three shapes, get them roughly, don't need to be the I'm doing these because, So make three of something, and what you'll is my ellipse, my polygon, and my and I can right click them, or the really common, 'Command G' and they're grouped, What happens? Over here, can you see, it's called Group 2, where is it, group? I made a group earlier, didn't I, so Group 2, I can rename, this little icon here is, not important, so that there, so I can look around, look, I can look inside the group of my layers, so yeah, you can see stuff inside of it, &quot;All right, I want to move,&quot; we know what grouping is, you can but I can go into them individually in the Layers panel, and going, or we can kind of go into so let's double click on the background... click on it once, double click, inside of the group, we can-- you know, and it's still a nice helpful group. You can ungroup by right clicking it and then it kind of comes and it's back to being single units... I'm going to go back, 'Command G', So what's the difference? Let's make two versions, and I'm going to right click it so I got this Grouped 1, you can these guys here are just hanging so what we're going to do is, very similar, and instead of right clicking and saying and it's basically exactly except the icon's different, can you see let's move the Layer order there's my group, that's them there, the icon's different, you get this Pound symbol, hash symbol, but they do a lot of the same thing. So you can still see them in there... they're all still trapped &quot;So what's the difference, Dan?&quot; The difference is, the group, if I go into this group, remember, double clicking it the group disappears, by group-- the frame on the other hand, if I go you're left with a frame, you're like, &quot;What are these because the frame can exist without It is useful because - I'm undoing. - is because I can do things like, I can drag my frame in, can you see, if I drag the edge of this, if I drag the edge of this in I can do so I can use the frame to kind of hide things, actually let me show you quickly. So this is why that's useful, you can grab your frame, I know we're jumping but I guess I want to introduce frames you got this list, so that it kind of clips it off, you've got the stuff hanging I can say, where are you, frame, then I can say, Clip Contents... so I can use a scroll, so people can... scroll left and right, there's one of the things, All right, so Clip Contents there are other ones, and the reason you're going to download and you're going to be like... &quot;Why is everything framed, it's all that was my position anyway. So the reason people do do it, or an advanced level in Figma... and they just stop using groups, sorry, frames is just like groups and clipping contents is one of them... let's look at one of just to introduce it now, and we'll work So what we can do is, weird thing about a frame so you group this top one, your frame, you frame it, Ungroup works for both of these... so I'm going to ungroup it, and you'll I'm going to put these I'm going to grab my name here... and I'm going to select all of these because I want to see the bonus... the bonus is, watch this, I can click on... double click to go inside our I'm inside my frame... and I'm going to say, you stick to this frame is the thing these guys though, and I'm going to say, &quot;Actually, you are same with you, same with you, top right, Watch this, if I go now and-- and watch this, when I drag it, hey, groups can't do that, we'll do the Property later on, &quot;Okay, I need another version, so I'm going to click on my &quot;Oh, it's going to be a Tablet&quot;... Mini, it's going to be in portrait, I'm starting to design... so instead of trying to drag it all you can click on this guy and go, and I can get in the top and I can stick it to that side, It gets more and more in-depth when and it means, when you start it gets, not complicated, but that awesomeness comes at remember at the beginning of this remember the frame, we just did it now again, So frames get used for the big thing but also the little things inside of it... these little nested frames, so I've got if I bring in say, remember that icon you probably didn't notice, and I bring in the same one, watch what happens, you'll notice that actually, can you see, it's a frame, inside of it is our little So that's why we can't leave it because there'll be frames in this case it doesn't matter, goodness with constraints and variants, we're going to do later on, that's all we're going to use it for, but know that later on there's &quot;So what you're trying to tell me, Dan, Nope, groups are great, and they just don't have all so that is my whole point of this video... we're going to use frames because they have features that we're and they just appear lots in Figma, The weird thing is when you've got weird, why have you got The one last thing is that, this frame... why does this one have a name... how did you get that name there, Basically, if a frame is what I mean by that is, if I drag them out over here, inside, his name goes away... so that's kind of why you might and sometimes the frame is just and it's inside of another frame... &quot;Wow, what a confusing video, Dan.&quot; Anyway, let's-- hope it got us closer to what we don't need is we don't need we're going to create some but yeah, we're moving towards so delete those, Hi everyone, it is class project time... I want you to create you might be following along so far, at similar sort of stage here, get all your frames in, I want you to build basically just other kind of versions rectangles, lines, some text... I want you to keep it reasonably even if you're like, &quot;No, they shouldn't be there&quot;... keep it kinda similar, because... I want you to be able to follow along with and these kind of units help me... show you all the different features The actual requirements for are in your Exercise Files, you'll see open that up, we've done this first one, this website URL will change, but remember, and you're going to create So we've done that one already, then we're up to here, it should look something like that... if you're looking for you should be able to zoom in, but if you can't, in your Exercise Files just a nice big version of it, there is a Figma file in there as well... remember, if you can't remember maybe go 'Home', go to your 'Drafts', and you can import that Figma file, All right, what else needs to be done? Here are the requirements, those are the four pages, pick your own color, it doesn't have you lose points if you use Papyrus, all terrible fonts, pick a plain it's part of the requirements, and then what I want you to do I'll show you how to export but it's actually just to go into Figma and open up your on a Mac it's 'Command Shift 4', and on your desktop you'll on a PC it's slightly different, you use I'm not big on PC... exactly how to do it for so just Google, you're allowed to take a photo with and then upload it to either it depends on the website you're on... you'll have a look, either as an assignment or once you've done that, is that big work? but it's good, practice our tools, and we're going to get better together, all right, I'll see you in the next video. Hi everyone, let's talk about I'm not going to talk even though I'll give you a couple... it's more about what when you are downloading so I'm using iconfinder.com, I like it... there's lots of free stuff on here, but if this website's not here there's plenty of free icons... so what you're looking for is, that's what I need what you're looking for is a particular I'm stalling, that took ages to load. Anyway, so there's a couple of things the main thing is all to do because it's free, and then there's I'm going to use the one and this one here requires you though but you have to link back to them, you might find good free stuff in there. This one here requires commercial use, so I don't actually have to acknowledge So in here, pick anything, I'm going to find a Shopping Cart, where is one? &quot;Pick something quickly, Dan, All right, so this one here, and what you'll find in there's a PNG version and a SVG version... let's look at both of them, PNG is SVG, you may or may not know already, a smaller icon version of this PNG So I'm going to download both of them, and there's SVG... let's compare both of them, So is there a right one and a wrong one? but now that we know what frames are... and groups are, so let's bring in a file, and let's bring in both of them, you can by holding Shift and clicking both can you see, I got like a little 2 there... you can even see my little icon, So I'm going to click, hold Shift, they are not going all wonky like that, that's the reason we have I acknowledge that I downloaded in here, you can download let's download that, So let's bring in another one, we've got this other PNG, the difference so I can get a good quality PNG but my that's the reason we don't, you know, So it looks good, but it's ginormous, it's transparent, which is awesome, you're like, &quot;Well, that's not transparent, SVG is into Figma... what they do is, can you see, they come in as our frame... inside of that frame is a group, that's all we really want, come out of that frame and hit Paste, you can drag it out of the frame, So I'm going to click on this thing, I don't want it in a frame, at the moment and delete their original frame... just so I've got the vector now it's transparent, and it is colored... I can go through, use my Eyedropper tool, whereas the PNG, we can go to Photoshop, change it... but obviously SVG is scalable, and yeah, we can go into Object Editing if you're like, &quot;I love this, start going in, I really want... a spiky handle, Dan... looks like a digger, SVGs are better, so whenever you are make sure you get the SVG. All right, another great place to get free so if you go back to your like there'll be an option... somewhere around here, called Figma it's better on mine, it'll get more and more robust... there is just amazing stuff in here, So in here you can do things like icons... and you will find loads created by people that it's not as searchable as if you just want to, like a, &quot;Hey, I need you have to kind of do a little bit but there is great stuff, and it's kind of let's have a look at the Fig Pick... Fig Pick just means Figma's decided this So what we can do is, when we are you end up downloading things, let's kind of, you can go into it to to get all the stuff out of it you need so let's click on 'Duplicate', saved to your Figma kind of flow, have a look around here, there's two and before we actually copy and paste what happens to these community files, Let's go back to 'Home'... what you'll notice now, in my Home... I'm kind of lost, so I'm going to my blurry email address, let me get back to kind of home base, that took a while... yours might do the same, I was like, &quot;Have I done something wrong?,&quot; What happens is, you'll notice that now I have unicorns, you kind of opened it, but now it's part of your flow... you can right click it and delete it... but everything you open or duplicate it's part of your world now, of working in the Cloud, it's not saved in your hard drive, kind of online login stuff. It also means that after a little while a ton of things open in here... and it's going to be hard so we'll look at searching and finding and you might be really tidy... and actually go delete the ones So we've got a couple of files open, plus our little unicorns... unicorns? Is that unicorns?, anyway... so let's go and have a look... now it will depend on how these these things have been created as... what's going to be called a component so this can be a little bit so let's just do it anyway, I like it for my wireframe, and I'm going to paste it, this weird file turns up, with the weird used in this file, there it is, there... it's a special thing that we're for the moment though what select it, right click it, you're like, I don't know don't worry, but it means you can just say, we're going to say, you can see, kind of goes back and you might decide, you can keep the frame, or you might go, like we did before... like get it out of that frame, so it's kind of just hanging out Let's rename it, let's call it &quot;File&quot;... and in my case it's on the, where is it on? so let's say that I want it it's currently not on the Checkout page, and that is the community, getting into the community, because you can find good wireframes and lock-ups and cards, and icons... we're going to be used to and sticking into our document, they come through as sometimes there's frames, sometimes but for the moment I'm just going to a kind of an example of and I will see you in the next video... now we know what we need when let's get some icons, onto the page, Hi everyone, in this video we're that I've got in our Exercise Files, so that they look, you know, the Stroke and I'll show you how to replicate so yeah, let's dig in. All right, let's bring in some icons, so that we can use them... so we're going to use the long way still using a little arrow there, Place Image... I want 1, 2, and 3, so I want Icon Share, I'm just holding down and just clicking them individually... on a PC it's 'Ctrl', now what's the key I hold down to 'Shift', that's it. So I'm going to get mine to a size, drag these in. Now what will end up happening is... the size here will depend on... the last kind of Stroke size so sometimes you might drag in, or might be super thin... one thing we need to do though is I've got them kind of what I want to do though is, and you've got to decide here the normal Selection tool, it'll depend on what you want to do. So in my case, you see, the Strokes so it's kind of getting, if I get them down or you can use the Scale tool and just and we can adjust them afterwards, and get them into that position. So import them, and we're going to try and match these now, I'm twirling all these up, just like groups with stuff in them... if you're happy to work like this now, you can pull these out what I'm going to do is leave them, so my you can see in here, because I want to click on this thing, but with it selected, actually, I can go in my case I don't need to change it but the Stroke width is about 2, and I want to try and match these all. So same with this one, sometimes, so I need to go inside the frame holding Shift to select both of them... and it's scaled down to like 0.5, you can this one here, but the way this has been drawn is that, it's actually a Fill, if I double click it it's not like lines that for an Illustrator person, from way back, if you're not, you will just find some of them and this one is actually made up of a Fill, so for this one to make it thinner... I literally have to go which is no fun at all, so you might or just draw one, we're going to draw... you could easily redraw that with double click to get out... and scale wise, probably need and this is where I don't want If I use scale now, it might look like this one here... but if I go inside of it, double click, that can catch you out, probably, but I notice, you'll notice... we're just going to use the Selection tool holding Shift, it means it'll retain you know what I mean? I'm going to leave it, broken forever, all right, I'm back. So what we're going to do now is... get those three in, I feel like this one maybe is &quot;Don't spend too long in there, Dan,&quot; what I want to do is I want not trick, but a useful thing in Figma... is, I'm going to delete these... because what I want to do is so what I'm going to do is copy it... so from this first one, click on the name so I'm using 'Ctrl C', oh, that's a PC, and a Mac uses Command C and V... so it is Command V on all of these, exactly where it got it off So do that, I'm not going to spend too long because we're going to have to go are they too big on a phone?, probably, my big old fat fingers is going to so we'll do that when we but we've found our icons, we've got them looking that'll be good for now, Hi everyone, in this video we're going what makes Figma amazing, that are run in parallel with Figma... so plugins are made by other people, and basically, you install them... in this case I've installed and let's say we search for a house, so it is a way of-- he's a bit teeny tiny there, This is a way of extending Figma, there are we'll focus on the icon one but they all work roughly they extend what Figma can do, let's So to install our first plugin, next to the Figma icon, we're going to browse them Manage, just will be able to see and maybe uninstall them, I'm going often, I don't use this method... I just go to this Home screen, we were looking at icons a second ago, so this is kind of new, what I'd like you to do is, plugins are that just means, like take a break, and just have a read through there's just so much in here and kind of enable you to and like, visually really compelling... let's have a look through we're going to look at icons what you need to do is, well, whether this plugin is good, there's no like star rating yet, but like Unsplash, which is a way of is a really cool plugin, really common, we'll do it later in the course... but you can see, 630,000 other so there must be some big in here. We're going to use Iconify... if this one is not in here, or hasn't been you'll find another version this video is not actually but just like how to install so we're going to click 'Install'... yes, please... remember, these aren't made by Figma, and let's go and have a look now we'll do a few through this course, So you have to turn the plugin on, so you've got to say I want a plugin now, this is where they all vary, they all look different, none of them I put mine on another screen... but I'm just going to move it over here, So let's have a look at that let's look at another house... remember that house was broken, so in here, let's have a look is that going to be a Stroke, none of them maybe that guy won't, and maybe I'm going to use this one, so you can just click and drag them out... look at that, got a giant SVG icon, that is that plugin, obviously, there's other options in here... you can search icons, and there's So plugins all work there are some sort of UI, and you'll we'll do a few more but yeah, that is the plugin, I don't need this guy now now when you are deleting it's probably because you're always so try not to, like... you can, you can just delete it, it's best to go into your actual layers, that's it, I'm going to hit 'Del', and then just make sure your layers what the hang is that? what are you doing down there? Anyway keep it clean, delete that guy too. All right, that is, yeah, plugins are amazing in Figma, going to let's get into the next video. Hi everyone, it is class project time, we are going to be doing so if you haven't already, you add the three icons along the top and then on your own, I want you to on the Confirmation page, a prompt to ask people to and when they click on this it'll or their Twitter tweet about... &quot;Hey, I just bought these great headphones, and when you are doing this you're going to so in my case, Sarah here, so I feel like I can be a little bit, because if somebody else maybe, born in a different decade... they might need a bit more explicit, upload to your social media, what you have purchased,&quot; So my persona, she's in her 20s... so she gets the gag or the joke, or the also she, these are the social media I'm not going to put them all there don't you hate sites? here's the 40 different social media I've excluded a bunch, because Like she's working for herself, and it's not going to be corporate... so she's probably going to be okay and everyone's using so, like use these sorts of, you know, Go back to persona, decide what it's going I might have got these totally wrong, &quot;Why isn't there Reddit there?&quot;... or some other thing that's new, but this is something that I feel We might add more to these later on... and hopefully in our user testing, &quot;Hey, where is that thing that I don't All right, so that is it, I want you to find the icons from... I don't want you to draw them, from either a free site, and/or plugin, install your plugin, get it there's a little bit of text there choose the appropriate icons, add them to the Confirmation page, and upload it to the Assignments, and that's an example... and actually, before you go, if you are get it installed, have a go with it... doesn't have to be Iconify, and sometimes, when you are let's say, it depends on the size of them, sometimes you're like, giant F... and it just makes everything really tough, So I'm going to undo that, it's just easier just to find an empty and just drag it off there... because then they're on their own, and I can drag off a bunch of these... where are they, and what else we got? I can drag up a bunch of these, and get them appropriate, rather than trying to push them and they ended up inside that they shouldn't be, that's my advice. When you're finished with the plugin and yeah, I'll see you in the next video. Hiya, in this video we're going to it is, and it isn't... over here, at the moment we're we've currently got a Page 1, we're going to create a second page... that's going to have our and then we're going to create another and also our taskflow, these pages are going to so let's jump in and learn All right, so to start off, you've already it's kind of probably closed up, you've got Page 1, there it is... you can get quite far in Figma, on Page 1 is all of the stuff I'm going to use these little just to make everything look tidier... so we've got our Confirmation page, you can rearrange these because Confirmation at the end, huh, I don't know, So we've got our frames, they're more like Artboards, because that's what Figma calls them... pages are a way of separating so Page 1, you can have more than you get to here, and you go... &quot;Okay, I'm going to start why would you have two pages? In our case what we might do, I'm going to double click it this other one is going to be &quot;Desktop&quot;, because we will design a mobile version there should be a tablet version as well, we're not, it's just a small bit so we've got our Mobile and Desktop... let me show you some well, you've got a Desktop, let's, now your Frame tool, again, I'm not but the F key is pretty common one... over here I'm going to say, and depending on when in the future this is a really good generic size... 1440 x 1024... we're going to have one, two, three, four don't do that, go to your Move tool, hold down the 'Option' key on a Mac, hold Shift as well, if it's not then command D or Ctrl D couple of times, So I've got three of them, I'm going to name them all I totally can't remember, so I'm going yep, that was a painful copy and paste... so that's a good use of pages... there's no reason why you can't just have before you get too far, they end up that's my Mobile one, later in this course, and it's not pretty... but it's truthful or honest, So other use cases is... we're going to do in this version as well, with things like your Task Flow also, let's have a look, because you'll have opened up some remember, we looked at these un icons, over here, like maybe I flicked through it, but you might have noticed that... I kind of might have gone to Layers because I'm like, &quot;Oh, there's pages,&quot; I want to say unicorn so bad... and that's how I found it, these are this one here is just acting and there's where all the good stuff is... it gets even more hardcore, I'm at Home, and I'm in Explore, I'm going to find the, so Microsoft Teams is liable to it's going to be big, if you've got a slow or a big Figma file, mine's, I've got kind of rural broadband, so that's, that's okay. Okay, what you'll find is, is you might get to here, and go... &quot;That's not that useful, It's in here, all the pages are... and you'll notice there's a cover page, they've created a page with nothing on it, can you see, this one doesn't do anything, a bit of documentation on it, resources, So you can see, there's quite let's have a look at-- I bet you, look how many pages this one has, the layouts, the avatars, the icons... so, at the end of this course this, we call it a design system, UI kit, understating what this for how to think about everything so somebody's made this, and they've separated out, if I'm a junior designer, &quot;All right, I've got to make this that, &quot;I've lost all your files, you can go through here, understand fonts... how they're communicating with spacing, what colors they what the colors communicate, later in the course we'll make normally called like a Style Guide, but I guess I wanted because you're going to have I'm going to make mine up again... every page, see in this case, inside these frames, bunch of other frames, so that's what pages are for. Other use cases might be that, say you've got Mobile, might have a specific kind of Task Flow, with a different Task Flow, a different look and feel, concept one, you can use pages to separate it out... I'm going to get rid of that. What I want you to do though and this one's going to be so it's great to have all so it's going to be at the top... and in here I want you to bring in or however you got your persona I got mine here, yours will be slightly different, I'm kind but earlier in the course I would have and I want you to grab it, the screenshot and put it onto your brief and Task Flow, yours is probably just a big JPEG. I'm not going to resize mine, and I'm if you remember from earlier, it should be under your little Home button, and where is that Task Flow? if you haven't opened it, remember, go to Drafts, go to Import... and the Task Flow is in your Exercise and I just want you to It's just handy to have all your documents, go back to our initial, I'm going to put that over there, so my so that I can refer back to it easily, simple, all right, do those things, Hi everyone, in this video we're going to put it in a phone, it moves through to the next frame, I'm also going to get a little bit lost, something goes wrong, so we all learn, let's get started. It's exciting time, how do we prototype it? what we need to do first of all, which we've been at for a long time now, and what we're going to do is, we'll start with this one... and what you'll notice is this little dot, we're going to click, hold, and drag, stick him on there, give it a play. You can just kind of click it, now that's it, it's going to do some we'll do the other pages, click on the name at the top... and say, you, click the name at all right, let's prototype it. Prototyping it, it's called Present, you click on that, and it will open up, you'll we've gone off to this other tab... and what happens is, it'll present so that's not what I want, and if I go to this Home page here... just click on the word 'Home' page, it'll basically jump back but at least we're at the Home page now, So what we're going to do is just click click again, Checkout page... what is that? what is on there, that is doing that? Shouldn't do that... let's close it down, start again... what is on there? Nothing... something weird's happening, I'll leave it Home page, Present... yours is probably going to have there we go, you, you, you... giant something in the way, but it's kind of working... we're getting another giant black box... you wait there, and I'll figure it out, All right, I'm back, did you-- you already saw it basically, what I normally do I will start, I'll start going I figured it was some SVG doing some and I tested it, and it still was broken, no, it's fixed, weird, I don't know then. So all I did was delete it and then so just in case something else happens... and it's not as easily fixed, it took me about five, ten minutes to what I normally do is, actually, and then test it, delete stuff and test it, eventually, something that shows that it was causing the problems, and then I gave up on that, so I just made and in this case I just deleted it probably closing the program, opening it All right, that was a little bit of so it kind of worked, this is back in the zone, Dan, back in and we have done some basic prototyping, gets to the end, and it's kind of stuck. So what you can do, you'll notice that, after a while Restart, which is R, to get back to the beginning... so you can kind of work you can manually get through it, Other things that might be useful is, you might just, well you won't want to get rid of all the kind of what else we want to do, One thing you need to know is that you feel like,when you're finished you close but you don't have to, leave it open, because what happens is, it updates... see this, if I go in here and I decide oh, good point, this happens you're like, &quot;Where did it all go?&quot;... because you're in Prototype, there's three at the top here, we'll look but whenever you're missing it's because you're stuck on Prototype, I'm going to go in here, I'm going to say, now I'm going to jump out to this tab, if I go back to my pages it updates... if you're using the browser version, pull it out and put it on the desktop version, it's kind I can't kind of pull it apart, if you do want to toggle back The shortcut is, there's no shortcut, there might be in the future, check, Figma Present, what is it called? it doesn't exist at the moment... what we do is we use the Command and Command 1 is back to your little Command 2 is whatever that's considered the first one, So in my case I'm going between Command 2 and Command 3, Command 2, make a change... Command 3... and it updates instantly, Another thing to note is, so I go to my 'Home' page... I go to 'Prototype', and I'm like... I want to go to page, something so it's only between frames on a page... what you'll notice in mine as well... is that I have this nice Chrome that might look ancient when you're let me show you how, let's go to 'Show Prototype Settings', you end up at the same place, 'Prototype', click this button, and you can say, &quot;All right, I don't know a Google pixel like, I own a 4 at the moment... why can't we have a 4? You have to look at a really old 2... and and you can pick through not that they change much on an iPhone... but obviously, on iPhone 8... instead of the gold one you can pick it's basically the backs of the phone, you can change the background color, and when I go into Preview now, doesn't quite work on landscape, If you can't see any of these remember, way back in the beginning, we we picked one of these defaults, so even if you just typed out, you've typed it out, and made it a phone so you might have to make phone sizes, if you want that Chrome there... it doesn't help the testing very much, You'll also notice that our desktop Desktop, click on this one, so click on 'Home' page... click on the 'Home' page, you'll notice... in Prototype, Prototype Settings, so I can go and say that I want it to be... a Desktop, like a laptop, there's only a few things you can actually One last thing before we go, what I want you to do is, and I want you to break all of the... these prototypes here, because I want it to go to Product Details only and I want to go straight all the way to the Checkout page, at the moment it's using the entire frame. So to get rid of it, what I tend to do is just click or you can click on your frame here, under Prototype, can you see, it says-- we've applied this interaction called it's the same thing, you want to or selecting the frame and then just All right, so we're back, we added them, but we deleted them... let's jump into the next video, but we'll also add some all right, I'll see you there. Hey everyone, in this video we are so the buttons go to places, plus we'll look at the different animation actually, I'll show you, this one does a slide-ey thing... so I'm going to show you those... I'll also show you, remember that the big giant black boxes... that came back, and we fix it so I'll leave that in there we'll learn about Easing as well... it's a teeny bit of a long one, but we All right, to change the animations, we are going to-- make sure we're we're going to delete these, if you haven't and delete these transitions, do you remember, in an early video &quot;What were those big black boxes?&quot; I've turned Figma off, open it back up... and I totally figured out there are something in here, big giant letters, oh well, problem solved... I think I was demo-ing it with you and they all ended up there, and now they're back, oh, Let's look at the animation, so we've and let's do it for actual specific buttons so what we can do is, gives its own little dot, so you can make everything clickable... so I want this Buy Now button to go to... it's going to skip our Product Details, can you see, I'm just dragging it around, I wanted to go to, straight to Checkout... that's for the keen buyers, Now the animation is this... it is instant at the moment. let's look at Dissolve, remember, you don't have to reload this... but you might, if you've closed it... just go to this little Play button, All right, so our little button, look at that, Dissolve, very exciting, and you can practice through it... so we won't cover every single one... because some of them are we're going to do, Instant is easy, Animate, we'll leave for this video... because it's a little bit more it is amazing, but we can do it later on, let's play with Move-in, R, for reset, move in... can you see, it slides in from the side, it gets really nice when you're doing you want to kind of like or maybe images flying across... and instead of testing every single one, and can you see, if you hover above it, kind of gives you so Push, can you see, instead of moving, push will push one out, to move one in... so this is kind of an easy way to-- Slide's really good when we where it just kind of like pushes it I'm going to stick to Move in, the directions, you can decide or coming from the right, down from the top, so those are all pretty easy. Let's look at one of the other so Easing is on by default... and it just means that, Ease Out means... it's going to start fast it's going to ease out I'll exaggerate it here, so... this is another term we need to learn, 300 milliseconds is... there's a thousand milliseconds in so 300 is, I don't know, third-ish... I'm going to turn it up to a second just So let's go over here... 'R' for refresh, Buy Now... can you see, nice and slow, and then gets nice and slow at the end, what's very often nice is, you can ease it in, so it goes slow you can see, this actually shows it so it starts slow, slow, slow, it just always looks good with So I'm going to crank it right up to, oh, I can do that, so let's preview it, let's have a look, so let's try 3-- let's try 400... reset, click it... still probably a little fast Easing is to play with the animation... Ease In and Out, it's pretty cool... it's kind of like a bounce, it's probably still going a bit faster, yeah, too fast, but cool, yeah, that's it, Push In, and I'm going to turn it to 600. There's a lot of playing with this, and what kind of Easing you're doing, kind of how far it has to move, so they're kind of e-- Ease In and Out, Before we go we're going to kind you do this on your example as well, because I can't really check it... so what I'm going to do is, just follow me, you could do it from the text, you could group it and do it from both. So I'm just going to do it from and I'm going to say, Learn More so you can learn more about it... we're going to do the text over here... so when you often click it'll go back to the Home page, so what I'm going to do is, this, go to this one... now, what animation is it using? It's going to use whatever the last thing so if you don't like push, So pick it first, so it'll just remember the last one... so I'm sticking to push... and the other thing to and just the interactions in general, and delete this one, can you see, So as long as we're in Prototype mode you so it means you can rig up and just copy and paste it along... so let's say it's this one here, you know, I make this I don't have a Share, or even a Mobile Nav yet... but I could just copy them all just to save some time, so Buy Now, it gets more and more how detailed you want your What I want to do is make sure that and my Home button's going, you don't have to drag it, after a while, because you can just kind of like, and just quickly drag this one, it's do-able, after a while it's not... you saw that, like Microsoft Materials one, there's no chance of rigging that up, So what you can do is, you can click on you select it, in Prototype mode, it's going to say, Tap, what happens, navigate to the Home page... so you can do it that way so instead of dragging it you can add this interaction and do it this way, I think that's it, that's it, hang on, let me think, It's hard to get it right, anyway, in our upcoming video we will and then you'll know instantly, you'll be So you can update your prototype, we didn't do that, so if I want to you can click on this line otherwise click on it and then and it just pops that to delete one, you can drag it off or you can click on the line like All right, starting to get prototype-ey, what can we do, did you notice that if I click these little blue dots appear... it's just to help people that are testing, because we are doing, let's say there's only four slides in it... and I only want to test that, I'd probably remove that just because it's going to confuse but maybe it goes to but if you click anywhere it should congratulations, the push and the bounce All right, that is animation, what you &quot;I'm not sure I can use Figma, most amazing animation transition it doesn't have Dissolve, where's my they're actually illegal in most countries so for your viewing pleasure, editor, Hello, this is the other side you're normally looking from that way... across this way, this is, that way, my junk and my soundboards, and it's night time, it's not kind it's about 11 o'clock at night, and in this video we are going to be what is it? It's a way of testing our, trying to design a Phone website, there's no point spending you need to be testing it on the device, so there is an app you either the Android or the Mac but it's called Figma Mirror, check in the comments if they have you sign in with your Figma then somehow, magically, you don't have to be on the same network, and basically what happens is, I'll show, you can you zoom in on that, basically if I click on different you can't see what I'm doing over here, where is it, Details page, so it's kind of live updating, and even So will this work? Maybe... so click on my 'Home' button, Home button's too small, you can't see what I'm doing, Purchases, what is it focusing on, Fades, oh, look how good this is... so I can actually work on it, and the big the Buy Now button, is too small, but it's teeny tiny in there... the Purchase button looks all good, how is this filming, the cam-- hey, that Purchase button I'm finding it very hard to click on they just need to be, they need to be smaller with so Frame, let's make him bigger. Logo is too small, text on the Purchase and I do get stuck on I don't have any sort of the Product Details page, forgot to add it, but it's when you get and you're like testing you're like, &quot;Ah, it's not that bad&quot;... well, that's way too small, So actually, that's probably pretty good... oh, one-- let's do a live update... because that's pretty cool, do it a little bit better, you wait there, All right, so, probably should have it's live updates, I'm moving stuff around so you're looking at my laptop there, and yeah, you can just kind when I'm working, getting font sizes and stuff ready... I just kind of like, I just have my phone lying so you can see it... this is really handy now, I can go through what do I want to do, it's a group, and I'm going to use up and down... until I find something, is I'm keeping my eye out that's what I'm looking at, I'm like, What you'll find is, you can't see it because it's but I've gone to 16 points... that generally is a no-brainer good one, 15, if you're trying to be cool and fancy, but if you get down around it becomes quite a tricky thing to-- it's fine for some things, but for it feels a bit small... so I want to go through move across... center them together. I have to do the same for the Learn More I need my hands over here, but I don't but you get the idea, be seeing what it looks it's pretty much instantaneous, don't know, So yes, if you're designing for tablet, if you're designing for desktop, because you can just do it a mobile phone, or an app, or a mobile desktop is part of our plan most of our audience is going because I talked to the client about it... those are the kind of conversations like lead generation, it's coming from Facebook ads, it's all if it's coming from like a lot of my courses do, so kind of questions you're going what do we design for first? All right, it' late, and surprisingly hot, I am going to-- let's make another all right, that is Figma Mirror... and testing your prototype on your phone, All right, it's class project time... I want you to download from the Google Play or the App Store... I both named those wrong so go in there and look for Figma Mirror... if that's not working for you for on your mobile phone, go to figma.com/mirror, so log in with your account, What I want you to do is just have a bit are the fonts large enough are the colors easily contrasting... so I can actually see some like, over the top of these, I know it's are these fonts for the description They don't all have to be 16, but, you know, there's some parts like this one here, this, like smaller I don't know, I'm going to test it also make sure that your buttons go to Prototype and just make sure they're and also, are they easily clickable, The last one-- I'm going to I have problems with these, they're not, they weren't very nice, so what I don't want to do is, can you like this one here just needs to be bigger, I kind of like it that size, so unlike a group, remember, a group, but because we're dealing with these sweet it means that- let's have a look and this outside kind of can be different sizes... we're going to get a teeny tiny bit So I don't want to just grab the edge... because what I want to do is, I want to or any of these things, and I want to say, actually, it's trying to match the size of the frame, but actually I don't want that, actually, just stay in the center, means when I grab my frame, which is this hey, I can make it bigger, but I can start making my buttons without actually distorting the image same with this one here, there's two vectors, I'm going to don't scale, please, awesome, go back to the frame I'm going to say, actually, So, haven't changed the size, I just and it's the only one I've actually so that is it, go and test and check in your-- I just want you to take it, can you take if you've got another person's phone, I just want to see it on the screen, and a nice little cool graphic of your How do you feel now? Like I remember, I still get that buzz of like... oh, the thing I made, and it's exciting, it's interacting... I'm clicking buttons, I don't know, is that you too? take a photo, if it doesn't work, you've got no one else around to take a just take a screenshot from your phone, Assignments part of this website... all right, that is it, Hi everyone, in this video we're up until now we've been doing with the whole thing sliding out, hey, cool, huh... that's the arrow sliding in, just the arrow, and to do that we need to learn and we need to add a delay so let's jump in and I'll show you So to animate in Figma, we've just been animating like we just want this arrow to move in, so what I want to do is basically, so we're going to have Confirmation, we're going to duplicate it... let's hold down the 'Option' key on a Mac, and on this first one I want it to and this, one of the tips is... when you are doing animation is - is just have a bit of space... so I'm going to move it over here, so we're going to have where the arrow is going to be off... and the second one, and to make the magic happen, So I'm going to click on this frame, and I want to say, go there, and when you go there, that's the one we ignored earlier... basically, this works when there on two separate frames, you can see them on this first one, and you can see like, hey, I'm smart, I'm going to animate them... and I'm using the Ease In and Out back, so yeah, let's give that a go. Confirmation, let's hit 'Preview', I know it's not going to work... this is going to be the big thing especially with these kind let's have a go, click once, it faded in... what's happening is, is that this arrow or not yet part of this frame anymore, look, I'm part of this frame... so have a look over here, I've got this line 13 on but watch what happens, look, watch it it's still part of it, still part of it, at some stage it goes, I'm not sure where that noise it is line 13, and it is now, so it doesn't know what to do, now, there's an arrow, that's why it just to make sure that it is part of this frame, you just got to make sure it is inside Now we've got a little tip, is, we've got it's hard to know which one is which, so I'm going to do Confirmation A, just to be helpful over here... and my OCD says, A needs to be now Confirmation A doesn't so all I'm going to do is drag it in, it doesn't matter where it is and there's one that so there's line 13, where, there, all right, so let's go and give it a test. I'm going to use my back arrow once, you can click these I'm on Page 4, click once... hey, a little animation... so yeah, that's the basics as long as there's something on both and it does something different... it'll work, it could be even-- one of the things with stuff off screen, like we can see it there... but we can't see it over here, remember, one of the perks of with the frame selected, so it kind of clips it off... so you can actually see it it's still part of the right layer order, except you can see it now but there are times you want to kind So now I can see it, I can, it will actually smart animate anything, so it's still in the right, where are we? it's still a different movement... but here we're going to turn the opacity and let's go test that now, it fades in and does that... so there's a lot you can do, we're just let's talk about some of the quirks. So one of the quirks is that so we've got line 13, &quot;Oh, I'm going to be very careful, and rename at least because it's got a different name let's go back, back arrow, click once, so if you get a Name 1, that's fine... just make sure you name back one, click. What else do I want to do? I don't like the other thing I want to do is, basically what I want to happen is, and when I click this, I want the arrow automatically, because at the moment you'll also notice, if I go back one, because of the transition between... the Checkout page because it does this back and forth, that's weird... so we're going to do a couple of things, I don't want it to do the crazy-- We're going to get it to do On Tap, but I don't want to do the Move In, and I'm going to turn that clipping remember, we clipped it off before, it's great while you're working, you might have to turn the Clip Contents I actually want this off screen... make sure that it's ready? It's going to go back, I want it to automatically go across, not so we're going to introduce another So basically what I want to happen is, we go to Prototype, on Tap, navigate to this I don't want to be on Tap, I just want so I want it to get here, I'm going to turn it down you can't have 0 for some reason... you have to have one millisecond, so it's going to be instantaneous, and then automatically move to this... and it's going to still use our Smart let's give it a go, let's go back to see, it got to there, if that's a bit confusing so 2000 milliseconds, and let's go back... so we click this, it gets here... waits for two seconds and then and the smart animation moves it in, If you're not with me, don't worry, it is a little bit weird... especially if you're from where you've got a timeline, Figma does it, but if you're thinking, it is, don't tell anyone... it is Figma trying its best to be All right, so the rules are, the names of the things like our arrow here are we have duplicates don't move the stuff you don't want to, you need to make sure is transitioning between the two, and the other big thing is that everything what I mean by that is, can't be hanging out in no man's land, and this Frame, it needs to be kind of grouped those are the rules of animation all right, that is it, It's class project time, so just get that arrow to move in, and if and you're like, &quot;Man, this is going to be get it to work on yours, you know, get exciting, get a, do something a little bit different... but do that and then so just kind of like, or three frames, but yeah, if you're new to it, we'll get into more if you are like a little bit I'm happy for you to go So in here it says, you might try don't get things to bounce in multiple keyframes like but maybe it comes in from the top, a tick that comes in something different, if you did want to do more than you can have multiple, friends, and lead into each other... but again that is for the people who, at this stage, I come from an so I'd be like tackling that... but if you're new just do the simple The other thing is, and uploading them as assignments... I'd love to see your animations, there is no like built-in recording part, be great if there's a button that says, check it, might be there now, so I would love to see If you do know how to like I'd love to see either a video, upload it that would be great, but it can get a little bit tricky so screenshot is totally fine... all right, that's the class project, do even if it is just a boring all right, on to the next video. Hi everyone, in this video we are with our client or one so we're going to share it, Doug is fictional, of a level of person you're Doug is a simple creature, he hates but we still need to get-- he's our client, this wireframe at this stage, keep him involved, so it's really easy to share so we're going to use click on that, and we're going because what I'm going to do is that's all I'm going to do, I'm going to I'm going to open up a browser, So this is Doug, he clicked it in his email address, the nice thing about it is that, or get passwords, or all of that jazz, it just works, and he can kind of move around, he can't but he can look at it, we'll do that in the next part... but he can look at it and go... &quot;Oh yeah, that's cool, I like that,&quot; and give me some feedback at this just to make sure I'm on track. The other thing you can do is, this little so we can click on this, you might have and he can go through and actually he can see it, you can realize you can't get from so back to Home page... so he can see all of this, which is cool. One thing that might confuse Doug, is it's opened up a separate tab, you can't you're like, you can click everything just, it's got a separate tab that opens up see along the top there... so yes, where this gets this might freak Doug out, so he's working on this... what you'll notice is, so pretend this side is Doug, so let's put a gap in between... so this is him on his computer, you know, this is me working, like I he can see my arrow. Figma is a really amazing so it's probably, for Doug, he's going to be weirded out, that I'm I can even see Doug, so if I move him over to, anyway, you can see each other, and let's say Doug's like, &quot;Oh man, I'm like, &quot;Oh my God, quick, select all same color, go, and he's like... &quot;I hate green, man, I'm like, &quot;Ha-ha, what about pink?,&quot; what about red, or orange? So what's happening is, so it is amazing when you're working, because you're just doing something, but at this stage you're just he doesn't have to do anything else, we don't have to be but it's a cool little bonus extra. Now let's bring Doug back, come on, Doug... if Doug wants to use commenting , which is he can sign up for free with either Google, and he'll be able to start commenting. So there's one thing that I might so you can actually use a little pin, let's show you a couple other things so I'm going to go back to Figma, a couple of things that is you can go into here, I want to link to a specific frame, the Home page is wrapped up, with the Product Details page, let's do this terribly, let's make that so what is it doing? Instant, that'll do... so what I can do now is I can select and then that option will work, it'll actually link to the specific frame, if it's grayed out it means and I go to Share, so that's one thing, So let me upgrade Doug, wait there... so upgraded Doug, this is Doug now... before, he could only do now with his free login... he gets probably a little bit oh, poor old Doug, he's like, &quot;Why can't but the difference now is so Doug over here is like, can't see my comment... so Doug's going to write... &quot;Why are we not using real images?&quot;... signed Doug... Doug is a wireframe, that's why... so he posts on his one, on my side and I can start seeing comments and I can see it there, and I can see it's going there, &quot;Doug, I've told you a million times, send it off to Doug, You can see, we can have this they can pin stuff, or they can just do it by email, So commenting is great, and for me, on my side, can you see up here, the two Ds, should but there's two Dougs now, he's the yellow guy, you can have of different people looking at it... lots of different clients, I'm going to go from my-- I don't because I can add comments myself... I want to go back to my Tools, and actually, and I can say, actually, this one here, see it here, resolved, so it's one of those I've kind of made the adjustments or at least I've replied his, and I can work as a designer from my client or tester, so commenting is pretty nice and fluid, all right, we'll wrap this video up, how to kind of share for editing... it's going to introduce a different which is Figma Teams, all right, bye Doug, bye Dan, I'm Dan. All right, in this video we are going we send our file off to be shared with but let's say we're going to be working in a UX design team, and there's more than one of so I need to share that can actually start working on the to do that we need to introduce something So we got so far with just the drafts, so we look in here, If I want to share, I can send it to, and I want him to be an editor, hey, first, to be an editor you need I'm going to click 'Close'... up here, it says it as well, a lot of things that, so let's go and look at that we can move it, let's have a look the long way, So back at my little home house here... we've been working in drafts, you can have eventually though, if you want to and working on it... you need to move it into you also be named differently, but this is called a Team, like Scott Headphones, you probably have about 20 teams some companies only need one team and the projects might be things like... hey, there's the mobile website, it might be some social media stuff it might be some flyers that we've made... or the redesign of that web page... and then redesign again, So you share the kind of company-wide so I can go to Members, you, you, you, and you to this team... and inside of this projects Desktop, Mobile, January sale, anyway, those are what? of what teams and the projects are. So let's go back to this, yours will be different, but you've been given, inside your it's this thing here, you can view it that we're going to delete it for the moment, pre-made team project with stuff in it, this is the default one and there's just a bunch of styles... lots of things going on in here, it's kind of useful, I find it's jumping in so we're going to close it down, and you back to Home, I'm going to... get rid of this project, right click it, I'm going to create my own, and this one is going it has to be lowercase e for some reason, let's create it... now, all we need to do is, this draft in mine's called Scott Ecom 1, and that will unlock the editing... and you're like, &quot;Why, what's and just kind of like, with a file inside that team project... this unlocks some of the features... so that I can actually I've still got that file open, can you see, it's not in drafts anymore, and now when I go into Share, I can allow people to edit, Doug, we don't really want to edit, Victoria is somebody I work with, I can send her email address in here, so why do I show you all of this, and it's one of those break points because, let's have a look, remember, drafts, you can have as many but if you want to share it it has to be moved out to here, that team can only have one team project, you can only have three files, you know, that's where you move, because it's great having one project, e-commerce website, and this other app or there's other kind of sub-section rather than just jamming them Now in terms of the files, you're going now this changes, and they will show you what you get, this is what it looks like at the moment, it says Free, you're allowed unlimited one team project, and you're only There's a few other things as well... but this is where you might bump there are ways around it, you're weirdly allowed at the moment, so I could have a zillion different teams and you can see how that works, it might be a bit cumbersome as well... but it is pretty amazing, again, these rules will change, to see what is available and what's not. So to reiterate, I've got this, I can move it back to drafts, I can say... you, actually, I'm finished with and I'm going to be sneaky, move it back the trouble with it though is, anybody it comes out of their Figma and I have to kind of share it this way, kind of like Doug, he can view it, but he can't be a co-collaborator on it, There are a few other things that, that we'll throw in throughout the course, one team, one team project All right, that's it, that really confused me like the screen here, this thing, this thing, I can create so I hope that helps, I'm going to leave so if you have dragged it out you can just drag it, click, hold, and we'll resume our regular scheduled all right, I'll see you there. All right, you made it to the end, if you enjoyed it, and also remember that this is it's not so short, right... but this is the first 29 videos, of 111... so there's lots more to go here, if you are, there'll be a link up link in the description, or just Google... &quot;Daniel Scott Figma Essentials,&quot; join me for the full course, yeah, that is it, I hope you're and maybe in UX in general... if I don't see you I'll see you around here on YouTube, that is the end, goodbye, everyone.