Hi, I'm Vanessa from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com. Do you make these common mistakes in English? Let's talk about it. Have you ever felt afraid to make a mistake What happens if you make a mistake? Other people will say, &quot;What? What did you say?&quot; Maybe you will miss out on a friendship or heart will start beating. You might start sweating. It's a terrible feeling. I think that because of school we are all be avoided at all costs. Mistakes are terrible. But do you know what? The reality is, that when you learn anything mistakes are inevitable. Inevitable is a wonderful word that means You will definitely make a mistake in English, And a little secret, I make mistakes in English So what I would like you to do, even though I would like you to take a deep breath with Because when you make a mistake in English, comfort zone. This is excellent. It means that you are learning and progressing, way to learn. So I hope that you will not fear making mistakes, mistakes means that you are trying something are having courage to get outside your comfort So, congratulations, you are doing something You're learning something new and making mistakes And to help you today, sometimes it's nice I would like to share with you 11 common mistakes These are some grammar mistakes, vocabulary you make these mistakes too. Of course, it's not the end of the world, up your English. So I hope that these mistakes and corrections To help you with this lesson as well, I have In this worksheet, I will give you all of some tips and ideas about how to avoid them, those mistakes. And also, at the end of the worksheet, you help you use what you have learned in this So don't forget to download the free PDF worksheet. There is a link in the description just for It is my gift. All right, let's go on to learn these 11 common make. The first couple mistakes are grammar mistakes. Then we'll talk about vocabulary mistakes, And you know what? If you make these mistakes, even after this to realize that you are doing something amazing. You are learning a new language. You are getting outside of your comfort zone. You're awesome. All right. Let's start by talking about some common grammar Mistake number one, &quot;I went there by bus.&quot; &quot;I went there by car.&quot; &quot;I went there by plane.&quot; Okay, so grammatically in a textbook, they But do you know what? In daily conversation, we rarely use &quot;by&quot; I went there by car, by bus, by plane, by It feels a little bit like textbook English Instead, we're more likely to use the verb &quot;I took a bus.&quot; &quot;I took a train.&quot; &quot;I took a flight.&quot; &quot;I took the plane.&quot; With driving, because you're the one who is I drove to my friend's house. We drove to the beach. That's in the past tense, to drive, drove. But here, we're more likely to use a verb So take a look at this sentence. How can we change it to make it be a little &quot;We're going to Canada by plane next week.&quot; You see that phrase &quot;by plane&quot;. And now you know it's not so natural, how Well, we have two options. We can use the verb &quot;take&quot;. &quot;We are taking a flight to Canada.&quot; Or you could just say, &quot;We're flying to Canada.&quot; It doesn't mean you're a bird and you are This implies that you are going into the airplane. So you could say, &quot;We're taking a flight,&quot; Both of these are great options and you can instead of a &quot;by&quot; phrase. Yes, you will occasionally hear this, but phrase possible. All right, let's go to our second grammar &quot;I have 33 years.&quot; Huh? No. When we're talking about age, we do not use instead we can say, &quot;I am 33 years old.&quot; &quot;I am.&quot; We use a &quot;be&quot; verb to talk about age. This is something that I commonly see in my Brazilian-Portuguese or Spanish or Italian I often hear, &quot;I have 60 years.&quot; &quot;I have 55 years.&quot; But instead we can have a little switch and &quot;I am 66 years old.&quot; &quot;I am 40 years old.&quot; Beautiful. Common grammar mistake number three is, &quot;We Huh? This sounds very clunky and confusing in English. It's like there were five people in your head. What? We were five people. It's very confusing in English. So instead, it's much more natural, and in five people at the party.&quot; Or you could say, &quot;There were five of us at If you want to include yourself, the word So you could say, &quot;There were five of us at the party.&quot; Both of those are excellent and they use the &quot;We were five people.&quot; No. &quot;There were five people.&quot; Great. Grammar mistake number four is, &quot;Don't be Huh? Is it Halloween? Are you dressed up like a vampire? Don't be scary there's children here. No, this phrase means stop scaring people. You're dressed up as something really scary. Stop being scary. Don't be scary. No, instead, a much more common phrase is, I find that when my English students want say, &quot;Don't be scary,&quot; which has a very different You are dressed up as something scary for So when you're trying to comfort someone or I know that speaking English can be a little but don't be scared. I'm nice. I hope that you can speak with me and feel Don't be scared.&quot; Let's go onto some common vocabulary mistakes All of the words that I'm about to talk about mixed up in conversations by English learners, speakers too. So let's start with the first common vocabulary Definitely, defiantly. Hmm. Take a look at this sentence. &quot;I definitely do not want to jump into the I definitely do not want to jump into the But take a look at this sentence. &quot;He defiantly jumped into the cold water when Hmm. &quot;He defiantly&quot;. Look at the spelling difference between these For myself, I've found that as I'm writing What's this word mean? This means that you're rebellious. I told him not to jump into the cold water, He looked at me and said, &quot;Hm,&quot; and he jumped He did it defiantly. He was being rebellious. He defiantly jumped into the cold water even Hm. Now, I'm definitely upset. So make sure that when you're using these we use them in the correct way. All right, let's go to our second vocabulary Dessert, desert. Ooh. &quot;When I was walking across the desert, all for dessert.&quot; First, let's take a quick look at the spelling When we talk about dessert, something sweet are two Ss. A good way to remember this is usually you So we have two Ss. And when we're talking about the hot, dry, the spelling differences, but let's talk about &quot;I want to eat some dessert. I want to eat some desserts.&quot; There is emphasis on the second syllable. Can you say that with me? I want to eat some dessert. Dessert. But what if I decide to go on vacation to We might say, &quot;I'm going to the desert. Desert.&quot; There's emphasis at the beginning, de-, desert. &quot;I'm going to the desert. Desert.&quot; Wonderful. So make sure that when you are spelling these And when you're emphasizing them, it's also I'm going to tell you a really silly story I always wanted to ask my parents for some &quot;Mom, can I have some dessert?&quot; they might So I had to come up with a creative way to So me and my sister and my two neighbors, crawling down the hallway towards my parents Oh, it's so hot in the desert. I need some dessert.&quot; We were very silly. So we were trying to get them to laugh and between these two words so that they would I hope this little story helps you to remember Okay. Let's go to our next common vocabulary mistake. Quiet and quite. This is another one that's easy to misspell similar, quite similar. Let's a look at this sentence. &quot;I was very quiet when I walked up the stairs.&quot; Take a look at the next sentence. &quot;He was quite noisy when he walked up the We have an opposite meaning here. &quot;I was very quiet,&quot; this means I didn't make I was very quiet when I walked up the stairs. Or, &quot;He was quite noisy.&quot; We use the word quite as an emphasis. &quot;He was quite noisy.&quot; He was very noisy when he walked up the stairs. He was quite noisy. Excellent. So make sure that when you're writing and in the right way. Before we go onto some common pronunciation mistake that I commonly see with English learners, Take a look at these two words, recipe and Let's talk about pronunciation first. Recipe, usually, if there is an E at the end word we talked about, quite. Quite, we don't say quite-y. But in this word we say the final E, recipe. Can you say it with me? Recipe. This is what you read that gives you instructions I found a great recipe for making chocolate A recipe. But that's second word, receipt. So many letters that are cut out. Receipt, re-, it sounds like R-U, receipt, So the P is cut out and the E-I is just an This is the paper that you get when you go The cashier will hand you the receipt. And it's a list of everything that you've So let's look at these sample sentences. &quot;I followed the recipe well, why are my cookies The instructions for cooking, I followed the Or you can say, &quot;I checked the receipt, and Let me tell you, if it says to put this much this much salt in your cookies instead. They will be awful. So you can check your receipt from the store Oh, well, I guess that's the answer. Let's go on to three common pronunciation make, but I want to make sure you can avoid The first one is pronunciation? Mm-hmm (affirmative). It's true. This word is long, there's a lot going on, this word in so many different ways. I have heard pronunciation, pronunciation, It's very mixed together in the middle because So what I would like to do is I want to break We're going to make it nice and clear and ready?&quot; Pruh-nun-see-AYE-shun. That T-I-O-N is going to sound like an sh, Let's try to speed it up a little bit. Pronunciation, pronunciation, pronunciation. How's your English pronunciation? How's your English pronunciation? I hope you can pronounce the word pronunciation Have you ever been walking down the grocery what I'm looking for. What aisle is the sugar on? I need to buy sugar and not salt for my cookies Well, this word aisle, A-I-S-L-E. Why in the world is it spelled A-I-S-L-E? Good question. But it is pronounced eye, like your eye, eye-ul. Aisle. Aisle. So forget the A at the beginning, forget the Aisle. It sounds like the contraction, I will. I'll go to the store and walk down the aisle Aisle, aisle, this is the row in a store where So you can go down different aisles. And if you're in a store and you can't find sugar?&quot; they might say, &quot;Oh, go down aisle Aisle, eight. Excellent pronunciation. The final common English mistake, especially students make is with this word. How do you say that word? Is it drawer. Nope. Instead, there's two different ways, they're You might say, &quot;I put my clothes in the drawer,&quot; drawer,&quot; drawer, with a little bit more of Drawer, drawer. But for both of those words, the W is pretty So don't let that confuse you and try to split a picture, or &quot;drawer.&quot; We don't say that. Instead, it's jor or droor. Both of those can be used commonly in daily So where do you put your clothes? I put them in the drawer. I put them in the drawer. Excellent work. So how did you do? I hope that with this lesson, these mistakes Don't forget to download the free PDF worksheet You can review all of these common mistakes and at the end of the worksheet, you can answer what you've learned today. So now I have a question for you. Let me know in the comments, what is your I would love to know, is it chocolate cake, only unique in your own country? Let me know in the comments, what's your favorite And I'll see you again next Friday for a new Bye. The next step is to download the free PDF With this free PDF, you will master today's You can be a confident English speaker. Don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel Bye.