For the pbs news hour, iam in bayou. Amna: Also today -- I am in Beirut. Amna: The five-part plan includes a formal invitation to join nato and permission to use western supplied weapons to strike deep into Russian territory among other measures. Both have met with resistance by Ukraine's allies so far but speaking to lawmakers, zelenskyy insisted these measures are needed. &gt;&gt; We can he and state together with our partners must change the circumstances so the war ends regardless of what Putin wants. We must all change the circumstances so Russia is forced to peace. &gt;&gt; Russian officials brushed off the plan, calling it a set of incoherent slogans and western leaders do not fully support zelenskyy's plan either with the head of nato stopping short of an endorsement. &gt;&gt; I will not comment on every element in the plan but it is of course a strong signal from zelenskyy and his team that they are now taking it forward and it doesn't mean that I can say I support the whole plan. &gt;&gt; Zelenskyy spoke to president Biden who declined to support the victory plan. The white house did announce a new 425 million dollars security package for Ukraine today. Nebraska's high court ruled today that felons who have completed their sentences can register to vote. The state legislature passed a law that restored voting rights for felons earlier this year but the Republican secretary of state, Bob, deemed it unconstitutional. Today's ruling said he did not have authority to do that. The decision could have national implications given that mostly red Nebraska splits its electoral college votes by congressional district. Many who can register to vote live in the Omaha area. Their ballots could impact a closely contacted house race there. Bencic in Nevada has sentenced a former Las Vegas area politician to 28 years in prison for the murder of investigative journalist Jeff Garamendi of the Las Vegas review journal. A jury found him guilty of killing him in August after he wrote articles critical of his conduct in office. The judge added eight years to the minimum 20 year sentence set by the jury, citing his use of a deadly weapon in the crime. He had denied killing him. His attorney says he plans to appeal the conviction. In Nigeria, more than 140 people including children are confirmed dead after a gasoline tanker crashed on a highway and burst into flames. Dozens more were injured. It happened in the northern state. Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa but it lacks an efficient railway system to transport cargo petrol. Cellphone video captured the fiery scene overnight. By morning, the tank's wreckage was still up turned on the road. Witnesses say many victims were trying to salvage the spilled fuel with cups and buckets when the truck exploded into flames. &gt;&gt; When you travel around Nigeria, what you see is hunger and when people get hunger, when they get hungry, they get desperate. It is an opportunity to make people -- we take that chance. I think we need to do better as a community and nation. People cannot just continue to live a life of hunger. Amna: Deadly tanker accidents are common in Nigeria where vehicles often fail to meet international standards on preventing fuel spillage. 48 people were killed in a similar crash next month. Italy made it illegal for people to go abroad to have children through surrogacy. The senate passed the measure today after a seven hour debate. The government's conservative majority says it is seeking to protect women's dignity. Critics say it is meant to target same-sex couples. Italians who seek surrogacy in places like the U.S. Or Canada can face up to two years in jail and more than $1 million in fines. On Wall Street today, stocks ended higher after some strong earnings from corporate America. The Dow Jones industrial average added more than 300 points to close back above the 43,000 point level. The NASDAQ rose about 50 points on the day and the S&amp;P 500 also ended in positive territory. Family members, pop stars, and dignitaries of the democratic party paid tribute today to Ethel Kennedy, the late widow of Robert F Kennedy, at a funeral service and Barack Obama attended. Joe Biden delivered the eulogy. &gt;&gt; Ethel was a hero in her own right, full of character, full of integrity and empathy. Genuine empathy. Amna: Ethel Kennedy carried on her late husband's work following his assassination in 1968 and she also raised their 11 children. At the Kennedy died last week at the age of 96. Still to come on the news hour swing voters in Nevada explained their views on this year's election. The efforts to find thousands of North Carolina residents still missing weeks after hurricane Helene. A Russian metal sculptor who