This is Interstate Highway H-3, provided you don't have the countless people who grounds in your ear telling you it sucks. It's but it still managed to be the most controversial million dollar-per-mile price tag was over current national average. It also took 37 years a mile a year on average, quite literally slower this cost 1.3 billion dollars--without adjusting Short answer: here. Long answer: forthcoming. Hawaiian statehood and, per Don McLean, the year directed the government to explore potential Alaska. They looked for routes that would be in of population or industry, serve a large number of agriculture, mining, or forestry. Based total of 50 miles of Interstate in Hawaii, and the Bureau of Public Roads designated three routes H-3. They're all, among other things, defense Diamond Head State Park to the Barbers Point Air Force Base and Wheeler Airfield to both H-1 and Kaneohe Marine Corps Air Station. H-3 would trek range, as the already-existing Likelike and Pali The intention was that this highway would cost putting up ninety percent of the planning and Immediately, it was met with opposition. Tons Hawaiian leaders, to environmentalists, to banana building the highway was going to destroy sacred sites like temples and burial mounds, birdwatching banana farmers who like going to the hook for ten percent of the cost, critics of dollars, would be better spent on education, mountains. All these concerns and more resulted in injunction, after injunction, after injunction to do with 1970's National Environmental Policy Act, Impact Studies for projects like this. The studies high--arguably demanding an Environmental Impact permitting, and historical landmark lawsuits, H-3 and stalled for years. Eventually, the Federal of 1986, Hawaii either had to reallocate the up for H-3, or commit to finishing it--with the they'd have to give all the money back. Hawaiian Congress to slip a cheeky exemption into a environmental laws don't apply to H-3. In almost the relevant lawsuits and injunctions in 1987, difficult engineering and construction project billion dollars to build. Bring up the pie! contingencies, that kind of thing. The rest the road--these guys built the interchange these guys got two million to make an access road relocate an animal quarantine station the to do a couple cut-and-cover tunnels, an access most expensive parts of H-3 are the viaducts in The section of viaduct on the windward side the big boy tunnels is just a mile long, but it road there is built on top of 23 sets of piers, meters--tall, and the tallest of which is 160 to minimize trouble to the forest by building the to 300 feet, or 75 to 90 meters. Viaducts on Honolulu, were built on a 141 million dollar when they realized they'd have to work around That side features a total of 36 piers, ranging 27 stacked up, to the Golden State Warriors' is the point. The height is to minimize forest eyesore allegations--which may seem a bit silly, The viaducts lead to a pair of fraternal twin H-3's traffic through the mountains. These one for each tunnel, which were built by one for control and support systems, one twelve million dollar exploratory tunnel they before doing the main ones. I guess every As for the actual tunnels, they were dug using fans will know is also the name of my forthcoming stands 1,385 feet above sea level, most of an windward side is 840 feet above sea level, less a control building handles their message fire alarms, that kind of stuff. Inside, the and has a false ceiling. Above that, it's in yucky exhaust air so they can push it out, all aided by big fans. That ventilation system, and power supply, comms equipment, emergency concrete buildings at either end of the tunnels. H-3 was initially planned, opening day arrived an indigenous Hawaiian group that had opposed the a traditional chant called an oli to make peace all that happened before, the highway opened up planned. As of 2021, the stretch of H-3 around not quite the 120 thousand projected to use but still a... bunch? I guess? Today, the highway ugly, marring sacred land, and/or contributing the island, but it's a pretty good place Now, building a highway across the Ko'olau will be mad you did it. But not everything's like like this video's sponsor: Factor. Do you like to make for dinner, going to the grocery store, day of your life, even when you're busy and takeout just to avoid washing a frying pan? Maybe the hassle out of eating a healthy meal at home, your door. Choose from over 35 options per week, you're just two microwaved minutes away from a or these. I've been a real customer of Factor in no small part because they make it possible to weeks. So if that sounds good to you, why not the link below and use code 50HAI to get 50%