- Yo guys, real quick if you aren't subscribed, make sure you click that subscribe button because it helps us out a lot. - And with that being said, My name is Frank, and as you know, I'm addicted to Takis. What I am about to show This is my Takis vault. I have every single Takis I got the Guacamole, the Everyone loves the Fuego, the If I see anything with you can almost guarantee Good old Frank loves his nuts. So of course, I got every Guego, Smoking Lime, Flare, you name it. So I've been working on and I've made some additions to my bedroom that make it more zen. Takis. Now I have a custom Takis blanket. This thing is super warm, and that's not it. I also have my very own I could lay on this couch and I'll be the happiest No, no, no, no, no. Listen up, because I am I don't care if your I need my Takis delivery now. There's people online that claim that they're the Takis King, and that doesn't sit right with me. - Bro how many times no one loves Takis more than me. No one eats Takis more than me. No one's the Takis King like me. So if you want my crown, come take it. - Who is this guy? He sounds pathetic. You know what? Mr. Ramon Gooseman, I'm the real Takis King, and I'm gonna prove it. Oh, oh, I thought I was Every time I leave the house, I always make sure my lips are nice and moisturized with this Takis Chapstick. And you're like, Takis But no, I am not. Just look at that. And it is a snack too. Hey, what are you doing? Get outta here. I recently started cooking more, and that's because I My very own Takis cooking oil. Just look how beautiful it is. I mean, look, it has real Takis. That means it has flavor, So I have been trying to That's why every morning But not just any cereal. Oh, no, no, no. Good old Takis cereal. This thing's the best. - Just looks like a bag of Takis. - Well, of course it's a bag of Takis. But what makes cereal, cereal dummy? The milk? So that's why I use Blue Heat Takis Milk. Those are chunks right there. No other milk in the Ain't it pretty? Oh my goodness. This is the best cereal in One of my biggest pet peeves in life is I only have two hands and thousands and thousands of Takis. But I created a solution. Now I have the Takis bag holders. With these bags, I can hold up to 500 And you best believe I Oh, y'all had a good time, didn't y'all? Ed? When stuff gets too dirty, I have the Takis 15 in This bad boy cleans it all But be careful with this one. Because if you don't use Do you not see how clean that is? Ooh. And this thing cleans it all. Even sinuses. Personally, I like to think I gotta catch 'em all. I also got the super No one in the world got these Good old Frank got two. On this wall, I got the Takis waves. Get it. Takis waves. This, I, I actually really but my niece made it. And I mean, it's Takis so it's here. Oh yeah. Look at that color. You see no other chef in the world can recreate Look at that blue. You see that blue? That's because of the oil. Oh, man, I'm so excited. Whenever people come over to my house, they always compliment me on how clean and how nice it smells. And I tell them, I use Takis cleaner. This is the best thing I have ever used. It has real Takis. So it has the spiciness, the lemon-ness, and the flavor-ness, you know? I use this stuff for everything. And I mean everything. It works good on mirrors, tile. Honestly, sometimes I Do you see how clean this is? Look, I can see you nice and clearly. So I've been using lotion my entire life, but no lotion works better than my very own Takis Fuego lotion. This is the best thing in the market. You could see all the Takis I used. It's full of nutrients, It's so soft, I wish you could feel it. Oh, oh yeah. And this is how you actually Don't I look younger? This right here is one of my favorite and prized possessions. The Takis backpack. Just look at this thing. It's beautiful. It has all the bells and whistles and even has gold Takis. No one in the world, and I mean no one, has this backpack. - Where'd you get it? - I stole it from a Mexican kid. It looks better on me. My name is Frank and I'm calling out everyone who thinks they're the Takis King. Especially you Ramon, This is how you do the You get some Blue Heat. You get your Fuego. And I'm not done yet. The Cobra? Yeah, time for the Nitro. You see how dark that color is? Habanero Fury baby. Chili powder. More spice makes everything nice. I got my favorite Teo, Top Teo. You like that Ramon? I ain't never seen you do this. Some lime juice, some more lime juice. And you gotta mix it all up, baby. And now you enjoy. I'm the real Takis King. - Hey, if you guys are