On August 14, 2003, a cascading failure of people into darkness in the northeast US power outage ever in North America, with an Calamities like this don't happen in a bubble, and and organizational issues that contributed to the and a bilateral task force of energy experts 240-page report on all of the technical causes of though this is kind of an older story, and many of still a nice case study to explore a few of the the electric grid, essentially one of the Practical Engineering. In today's episode, we're Nearly every aspect of modern society and maintaining this reliability is an enormous videos on the basics of the power grid but I'll summarize a few things here. And when I say "the grid" in this video, I'm really that serves the eastern two-thirds of the There are two big considerations to keep in mind supply and demand must be kept in balance is nearly non-existent, so generation has to electricity demands. Two: In general, you can't It flows freely along all available paths, When a power provider agrees to send electricity of generation while the buyer decreases their This changes the flow of power along all the change in generation and demand has effects on the Finally, we should summarize how the is an interconnected network of power generators, and consumers. All these separate entities need smoothly. Things have changed somewhat American Electric Reliability Council (or NERC) operated the grid to keep generation and demands lines to keep them from overloading, prepared ensure that bulk power infrastructure would keep In addition to the regional councils, there were the day-to-day grid management and oversaw August 14th was a warm summer day that started out even before any major outages began, conditions Ohio and eastern Michigan were slowly degrading. leading to an increase in electrical several generators in the area weren't available Midwest Independent System Operator (or MISO), the account in their forecasts and determined that safely. But, three relatively innocuous events set The first was a series of transmission Reliability coordinators receive lots frequencies, and phase angles at key locations tell you, but there's also a lot of things it and aren't always perfectly synchronized with each a state estimator to process all the real-time and convert them into the likely state of the with all the voltages, current flows, and state estimation is then used to feed displays But, on August 14th, MISO's state estimator it couldn't converge on a solution. "Sorry. All the data that you're feeding me that matches all the inputs." And the reason a transmission line outside MISO's area had didn't have an automatic link to that information. and it took a bunch of phone calls and cases. So, starting around noon, MISO's Here's why that matters: The state estimator feeds Analysis or RTCA that takes the estimated What would happen if this generator tripped? offline? What would happen if the load increased because you have to stay ahead of the game when that each control area manage its network to avoid even during the most severe single contingency, line or generator unit. Things on the grid are the most severe contingency would be. So, the the guidelines at any point in time is to run the grid would survive. And MISO's RTCA tool, in grid conditions (sometimes several times per 2 minutes before the start of the cascade. That outages, and they couldn't issue warnings to their the operator of a control area in northern That afternoon, FirstEnergy was struggling to those air conditioners use induction motors that Inductive loads do a funny thing to the power on the magnetic field isn't actually consumed, to the grid each time the current switches US). This causes the current to lag behind the It also reduces the efficiency of all the because more electricity has to be supplied than deep in the weeds of electrical engineering, bulk power into two parts: real power (measured On hot summer days, grid operators need more loads on the system caused by millions of Real power can travel long distances on import reactive power from far away because consumes the reactive power as it travels along the Cleveland area, FirstEnergy was importing a but voltages were still getting low on their part power to go around. Capacitor banks are often used providing reactive power. However, at least out of service on the 14th. Another option power plants so that they create more reactive At the Eastlake coal-fired plant on Lake Erie, trying to get as much reactive they pushed it a little too hard. its internal protection circuit tripped and event preceding the blackout. Without this have to import even more power from the rest lines and giving operators less flexibility Finally, at around 2:15, FirstEnergy's control failures. The first thing to go was the alarm had problems. This probably doesn't need to be People in the control room don't just sit and up and down over the course of a day. Their up as on-screen or printed notifications so but the system designed to get an operator's FirstEnergy operators were essentially driving on on "full," not realizing they were nearly out of Eastlake 5 offline, and FirstEnergy's the grid in northern Ohio was operating on the leaving it vulnerable to further contingencies. I'll show the next events on this map of the Cleveland and Akron. These are only the 345 kV lines in the area as well. Transmission lines heat losses, and that is exacerbated on still, hot they heat up, they expand in length and sag lower as the temperatures rose and the power demands transmission line (a key asset for importing power short-circuit. The relays monitoring current and tripped it offline. Operators in the They started getting phone calls from customers but they discounted the information because By this time their IT staff knew about communicated them to the operators, who With the loss of Harding-Chamberlin, the remaining took up the slack. The current on one line, the of its rated capacity, and it was heating the Hanna-Juniper line sagged into a tree, The FirstEnergy IT staff were troubleshooting the control room operators. The staff at MISO, estimator issues, were also behind on realizing FirstEnergy operators were now getting phone while being figuratively in the dark. Call "[The meter on the main transformer] is bouncing here...so I know something ain't right," said A little later he called back: "I'm and swings on the generator... I don't know A minute later he calls again: "It's be here much longer and you're An operator in the FirstEnergy seems to be updating on the computers. I With two key transmission lines out of service, Cleveland area had to find a new path into efficient 138 kV system, but much of it was which was now carrying more than its rated losing Hanna-Juniper, the Star-South Canton line and short-circuited. It was actually the third equipped with circuit breakers called reclosers fault had cleared. But, the third time was the out. Of course, FirstEnergy didn't know about the and they didn't know about this one either. They get boots on the ground and try to get a handle on With Star-South Canton offline, flows in the lower significantly. It didn't take long before they too the next half hour, sixteen 138 kV transmission contact something below the line. At this point, load in northern Ohio had been disconnected, but Cleveland from the south came from the Sammis through the system now had this line operating abnormal and sudden rise in current, the relays occurred and tripped the last remaining major only an hour after the first incident. After With no remaining connections to bulk power coursing through the grid tried First overloads progressed northward into areas of the grid. Then the area was cut off to or Detroit from the south, west, or north, a New York, and then Ontario in a counter-clockwise of power flow in the grid. All along the way, these unusual changes in power flows as faults and Relays are sophisticated instruments and trigger circuit breakers when one is with levels of redundancy so that lines even if one or more relays malfunction. where separate relays have overlapping zones fault (called Zone 1) doesn't trip, the next 2 and activate the breakers. Many relays have a When you have a limited set of information, it equipment is experiencing a fault and should be or just experiencing an unusual set of not have anticipated. That's especially true taking measurements. The vast majority of lines Zone 3 relays. That means the Zone 1 and 2 relays, voltage on the lines and didn't trip because normal. However, the Zone 3 relays - being less but non-damaging conditions - shut them down. it took only about 3 minutes for a generators, and transformers to trip offline. no opportunity to implement interventions Eventually enough lines tripped that the outage the rest of the Eastern Interconnection. But, the frequency of power within the island was collapsed. In addition to all of the transmission 508 generating units shut down. When it was States and the Canadian province of Ontario were actual faults during the cascade, reenergizing Large portions of the affected area had Only a few places in New York and Toronto but still the impacts were tremendous. Water systems lost pressure forcing boil-water traffic lights were down. It's estimated that Three trees and a computer bug caused a major a halt. If that's not a good example I don't know what is. If you asked anyone whether the entire northeast US and Canada the next day, they would have said no way. and there were even experts sounding alarms about of transmission networks, but this was not some It was just a series of minor contingencies that Today's power grid is quite different than 46 recommendations about how to improve operations the future, many of which have been implemented mean there aren't challenges and fragilities in include more extreme weather, changes in the sources of generation like wind and solar, growing between loads, generators, and grid controllers. to extreme weather and the strong nexus between that event if you want to take a look after this. and interconnectedness of this critical resource the engineering behind it. Thank you for