Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're air handling units. We'll be looking at some typical examples to understand how they work Just before we jump in, I to Danfoss for sponsoring this video. Danfoss is committed to around the world by both partnering with channels like this one, and also by offering free online classes through their online They have literally hundreds on a wide variety of topics including relevant classes for air handling units. You can also take exams to give your career and Just click the link in the to create your free and gain access to a world of knowledge. Pop engineering quiz. What is the difference Let me know your answers in If you don't know, then No cheating, just test yourself and I'll give you the answer So where do we find air handling units? Air handling units, which are found in medium to large commercial and industrial buildings. They are usually located in the basement, on the roof, or on the And many large buildings will likely have a mixture of all of these. AHUs will serve a specified such as the E side or office areas from floors one to 10, or such as just the building's toilets, therefore it's very common to find multiple AHUs around a building. Some buildings, particularly will have just one large AHU which is usually located on the roof. These will supply the entire building. They might not have a return duct. Some older designs rely on the air just simply leaking out of the building. But this design is not so common anymore in new buildings because Now it's most common to supplying different zones and higher quality space conditioning. Buildings are now also much more airtight, so we need to have a return duct to regulate the pressure So what is the purpose Air handling units condition and distribute air within a building. They take fresh ambient air from outside, and then clean this, heat it or cool it, maybe humidify or dehumidify it, and then they'll force around to the designated Most units will have to then pull this dirty back to the AHU where back into the atmosphere. Some of this return air back into the fresh air We'll have a look at otherwise, where that isn't possible, thermal energy can be extracted and fed into the fresh air supply Again, we'll look at later in this video. Let's have a look at a and then we'll look at In this very basic model for flow and return air. At the very front on the inlet and the outlet of each housing we have a grill to prevent from entering into the mechanical Here's a photo of an AHU a whole bunch of trash if so that's why it's important At the inlet of a fresh air housing, and the discharge of we have some dampers. The dampers are multiple sheets They can close to prevent air from entering or exiting the AHU. They can open fully to And they can also vary their to restrict the amount of I'll also show you some examples here of real world dampers in AHUs. The one on the left has the which changes a position of the dampers. After the dampers, These are there to try and et cetera from entering the If we don't have these filters, the dust is going to and within the mechanical equipment. It's also going to enter the building and be breathed in by the occupants, as well as make the building dirty. So we want to remove as Across each of the filter banks, we'll have a pressure sensor. This will measure how and warn the engineers when it's time to replace the filters. As the filters pick up that can flow through them is restricted, and this causes a pressure drop. Typically, we'll have some panel filters, or pre-filters to catch Then we'll have some bag filters to catch the smaller dust particles. We've actually covered AHU filters in great detail previously. Links in the video description below, do check that video out. The next thing we'll find are These are there to cool or heat the air. The air temperature of the supply air is measured as it leaves the AHU. This needs to be at a designed temperature to keep the people inside This designed temperature If the air temperature the heating coil will add heat to increase the air temperature and If the air is too hot, will remove heat to and also reach the set point. The coils are heat exchangers. Inside the coil is a hot or cold fluid, usually something like a refrigerant or perhaps steam. And we've discussed these in other videos, do Links are in the video description below. Next we'll have a fan. This is going to pull air in from outside and then through the dampers, and then push this out and around the building. Centrifugal fans are very but EC fans are now being installed and also retrofitted for Across the fan, we'll also This will sense if the fan is running. If it is running, then it will and we can use this to detect and warn the engineers of a problem. We'll also likely have shortly after the fan. This will read the static the speed of the fan is controlled as a result of the pressure in the duct. This will also very often connected to the fan for We've covered VAV systems separately, again, links down below for that. Then we have the ductwork around the building to We'll also have some ductwork coming back, which is bringing all the back to a separate part of the AHU. This return AHU is usually but it doesn't have to be. It can be located The return AHU in its simplest form has just a fan and a damper inside. The fan is pulling air in and then pushing it all into the atmosphere. The damper is located at and will close when the AHU turns off. That's a very simple and typical AHU, so what else might we find? If you're in a cold part of the world where air temperatures reach then we'll find a pre-heater in the inlet of the fresh air intake. This is usually an electrical heater. When the outside air gets or 42.8 degrees Fahrenheit, and heat up the air to protect the components inside from frost. Otherwise this could freeze the heating and cooling coils inside and burst them. What about humidity control? Some buildings need to of the air they supply into the building. We'll find a humidity sensor to measure the moisture in the air supply. This will also have a set should be in the air by design. If the air's moisture then we need to introduce moisture into the air using a humidifier. This is usually one of the This device will usually either add steam or a spray of water mist into the air. Many standard office-type and Northern America have or uninstall them to save energy. Although they are still crucial for places like document stores and computer rooms. If the air is too humid, through the cooling coil. As the air hits the cooling coil, the cold surface will cause to condense and flow away. You'll find a drain pan to catch the water and drain this away. The cooling coil can be the moisture content but of course this will below the supply set point. If this occurs, then the to bring the temperature back up. This will work, although it Energy recovery. If the supply and extract AHUs are located in different areas, then a common way to recover is to use a run around coil. This uses a coil in both AHUs, and a pump circulates This will pick up waste and add this to the supply AHU. This will reduce the heating when the outside air temperature is below the supply set point temperature and the return air temperature The heat would otherwise be wasted as it is simply rejected to atmosphere. As the pump will consume electricity, it is only cost effective to turn on if the energy saved is more Another very common is to have a duct sit between the exhaust and the fresh air intake. This allows some of the back into the fresh air intake to offset the heating and cooling demand. An additional damper sits to control how much air This is safe and healthy to do so, but you will need to ensure that the exhaust air has a low CO2 count, so we need some CO2 If the CO2 level is too high, The mixing damper will close and all the return air will When in recirculation mode, the main inlet and outlet in this setup because we will of fresh air to enter the building. We can use this in the is warmer than the outside air. And we can also use this in the summer if the return air is cooler respective to the supply We'll also need some temperature sensors at the intake return and Some buildings require 100% fresh air, so this strategy can't be used everywhere. The local laws and Another variation we might This is very common in newer compact AHUs. This uses a large rotating wheel. Half of it sits within and half of it sits within The wheel will rotate, driven As it rotates, it picks up unwanted heat from the exhaust stream and absorbs this into The wheel then rotates into This air is at a lower temperature so the heat will transfer from the wheel and into the fresh air stream which obviously heats the and thus reduces the This is very effective, from the exhaust into so this cannot be used in all buildings. Another version we might come across is the air plate heat exchanger. This uses thin sheets of metal to separate the two streams of air so that they do not come into direct contact or mix at all. The temperature difference will cause the heat to transfer over from the hot exhaust stream, of the heat exchanger, and The two air streams need to So it can be a little Just remember the air Just before we wrap up, to sign up for your free Doing so gets you access to e-lessons including several It also enables you to So what are you waiting for? Go give it a try now. Links are in the video description below. The answer to the question of the video for what is the difference between an AHU and an FAHU, is simply that FAHU stands for Fresh Air Handling Unit, meaning it is an air except it can only handle It does not recirculate any return air back into the supply stream. An AHU on the other hand, can recirculate some of its return air into the supply stream. The building application will dictate when and if this strategy can be used in a building. Okay guys, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you've enjoyed this If so, please don't forget And also, leave your questions Don't forget to follow us on and obviously, TheEngineeringMindset.com. Once again, thanks for watching.