Okay, so today we're talking about a cheat. Well, thankfully no. Because this wasn't really a cheat, it was instead a very very creative interpretation Now, this cheat ... ...innovation... This innovation happened a It was kind of famous so I'm sure some of you heard about it. But today I promise you will not be Because today I want to dive deeper into And I also want to correct some of the since forever. All while So the year is 2003, the car is the Ford Focus RS WRC 03. And the discipline is of course, the World Rally Championship. Now, in this year Ford introduced a Most of the stuff was The body shell made lighter, aerodynamic enhancements were But one of the most noticeable changes was the introduction of US-spec front and rear This was a bit weird, because the car was it was okay because fitting different It isn't against the rules. And many suspected initially, that the bumpers offered some sort of But the real reason for US bumpers, larger and more prominent bumpers. A regulation that's notorious for uglyfying many cars. But this time a larger bumper had a completely different agenda. Because inside it, the Ford 45 liter tank, made from 2mm thick titanium sheets. Now, before we go further, I would just like to take a short moment to give credit to I mean just look at it. Unfortunately, we don't have a But I think this is enough As any welder will tell you, welding up But welding up a part made from titanium of this That isn't skill. That's art. So whoever you are... So, what was the titanium tank used for? It was used for... ...wait for it... ...to store boost. I'm not kidding. That was the actual purpose of the tank. The tank was connected to the engine via Now, when the driver was off throttle and the was not ingesting, And when the driver got back on wide-open and release off this boost from the tank, And voila A massive advantage over the competition, which resulted in Ford dominating No, not really. The winner of the 2003 championship And the manufacturer's title went to Citroen. So, why didn't the Focus dominate Well, there was a bit of bad luck, some But despite numerous setbacks, Markko did manage to win two rally rounds. The Acropolis Rally in Greece And Rally Finland. Although Martin isn't as famous as Colin he's still definitely one of the Rally greats. And probably the only rally driver after piloting a car for 20kms on Pacenotes alone. Because the hood of the Focus decided to play peek-a-boo. It was like kind of six seconds slower than But I know that, at that time the frustration of was so big, that you know really, Normally should have, like that. But we just wanted to win a rally so And now let's dive a bit deeper into to see how it actually worked And to point out some of Let's start with this video from car throttle. And let's watch it together for a few seconds. So Ford rooted this extra boost down a 30mm tube Valves ensured that the tank stayed When the car would reach the desired piping the boost straight back into the intake. And letting the car perform with Giving a massive power increase Now, I'm really not trying to point fingers or discredit anyone here. We're all human. We make mistakes. Everybody makes mistakes. I make mistakes in my videos. It's completely okay. I think it's unavoidable. But what's important is to correct them So this part of the video: &quot;...giving a massive power increase...&quot; is a typical example of what you could read and people are still saying it about Ford's bumper boost thing. In other words, you were somehow led to as much boost into the tank And then release it when needed. The illusion was created that somehow nearly infinitely in the tank, Unfortunately, this is impossible. This is not how things work. And to begin to understand why it's impossible, let's start with a very quick recap So here we have an engine, Combustion happens inside the cylinder These exhaust gases then exit through the The turbine wheel inside the drives the compressor wheel inside It drives it because they're As the turbine wheel starts spinning And the compressor wheel sucks sends it through the intercooler into the engine. So logic tells us that the faster the The more air it sucks in, the more air it can The higher the boost pressure, or the more air we are stuffing into the same volume. The more air we stuff, the more fuel we can add. And the more powerful the combustion becomes. The more powerful the combustion, the higher the and the faster the car can go. So, what limits the amount of pressure Well, one of the main limiting factors The larger the turbo, the higher Just like a larger human with larger can inflate a balloon to a larger size. Another way of limiting is limiting the amount of air that a By limiting the amount of air you're limiting the amount of air turbocharger It works with humans too Force the large human to breathe, to inhale and you will see that he or she will And the same principle was used A 34mm restrictor, that was installed inside a World Rally Championship car. The goal was to even out the playing field. And prevent absurd power outputs, like the Now, to prevent the teams from the World Rally Championship That all air coming into the engine, must And this is the reason why Ford's hidden Because all the air that went into the tank, was actually coming through Now, a few years earlier in 1995, Toyota made an ingenious inlet air restrictor But once you would install it would *move forward, resulting And a very noticeable power But tampering with the inlet And once the WRC discovered it, Toyota was disqualified and banned This is possibly the reason why Ford And one that wasn't really illegal Ford did not tamper with the inlet air restrictor, which is why the amount of air coming It was only excess boost that resulting in an estimated power So why did Ford's device result Well, to understand that we must What is excess boost? Well, let's imagine the car is coasting at 2500 RPM. In a situation like this, the Now, let's imagine we floor it. When we floor it, the throttle Now, when you open the throttle plate fully, So, the ECU adds more fuel to compensate, and we create more powerful This also creates more which is then used to drive So, the turbo starts spinning faster and faster, As it does so, it starts increasing the until we reach the peak pressure Let's imagine that in our case that's So the turbo is stuffing air at which leads to the engine also Now, let's imagine we're And we suddenly release the throttle. At this moment, the throttle plate closes. And we suddenly have pressurized Because entry into the engine has suddenly This is excess boost. Pressurized air inside the intake So, what do you do with excess boost? Well, choice#1 is to use a This valve will take the excess and recirculate it back in This is what most stock and OEM setups use. Choice#2 is to use a blow-off valve, which blows It will generate the PSSHH sound Choice#3 is to do nothing. And this is what most rally cars do. They just let the pressurized air sit it tries going back towards the chopped up by the compressor wheel which This creates that CHU CHU CHU sound that you can hear. Now, if this excess boost pressure is it shortens the lifespan of the turbo. And eventually destroys it. But World Rally teams really don't care, because they have giant budgets And then they go: 'Mac, bring us another one!' And Mac goes to the cabinet takes out a turbo accidentally drops it Makes a really small ding on the turbo Looks at it. The ding is kind of ugly. Throws it in the trash, and You know, professional high-level motorsports. But Ford opted for choice#4 They stored it in a tank for later use. Now, let me ask you a question. If the maximum boost pressure that a what's the maximum pressure that we can Yes Also 30 psi. You cannot generate and stack up more Massive power increases with Again, it's the same with humans. If you take a balloon, and blow into the balloon And let's say that the maximum air is 3 psi above atmospheric air pressure. Once air pressure inside the balloon you will not be able to inflate the If you were to take a balloon with 10 and try to ball in it overpower you, and air would rush from Until air pressure in your mouth and So, if peak boost pressure that and the maximum pressure we can generate then the additional power increase Because if we can't generate additional boost So how did Ford's boost tank end up increasing power by 5%? Well, the answer is something But rally cars do. Anti-lag. So when you're on wide-open throttle, Which can create lots of hot exhaust gases. Which spin the turbo very fast. Which creates peak boost pressure. Now, when you let go of the throttle, the reduces, which also reduces the So the turbo starts slowing down, The excess air pressure left inside the intake slowing it down. This means that when you get back onto full resulting in a low power and a low response. And to take a few moments, before wide-open throttle again generates enough hot exhaust gases to get the This is called lag. In normal driving condition, But in rally, the few split Which is why anti-lag was developed. When you let go of the throttle, and the heat of the exhaust gases starts reducing, There are multiple different systems and it diverts fresh air from the intake into While the ECU keeps adding fuel into the The result is that a combustible mixture forms The mixture can either be ignited by Or it can be ignited by the spark so far, that it creates a spark while the exhaust The result is an actual explosion or detonation It sounds like this. Of course, this explosion heat which keeps spinning the turbocharger faster. So, instead of actually slowing down, it even speeds up a bit more than normal, all of the boost pressure is ready If we were to make another stupid and anti-lag would be like targeted punch into your abdominal And you know force you to exhale and so you could actually inflate the balloon to But just like a punch into the abdomen is bad But again, remember professional Nobody cares. Now depending on the type design and the additional boost pressure But the one in WRC back in 2002-2003 could 2-5 psi of additional boost pressure above And Ford's hidden boost tank was designed to capture this additional boost pressure, using its A more appropriate name would have been: Additional boost pressure capture device. When the driver releases the throttle, Increased boost pressure and any excess beyond that goes into the tank. When you get back on throttle, and if is higher than inside the tank, the throttle being wasted on filling the tank Driver lets go of the throttle again Anti-lag kicks in, excess boost until eventually the pressure in the intake The valve now closes, because tank The next time you get back on full throttle, the pressure inside the tank is higher The valve now opens. And extra air pressure rushes generating higher boost pressure than would normally be possible. Thus increasing the power output. So why didn't the Focus dominate with this? Well, it takes a bit more than an There was some bad luck for the Focus this year. And overall, the package including suspension, less competitive than some of the On top of this is a rather complex system. And although most of it was made from titanium, In motorsports, that is not a negligible amount. And it's weight that the car has to haul, all of the time. While the boost tank could generate And depending on the configuration of the track, the tank might not get to be as full as often So if it couldn't dominate, why was it banned? Well, this was just the first version, If it wasn't banned, then the other teams to try to gain a little And that would really be taking away from and the sport of rallying in general. And there you have it. A boost tank hidden inside a rear bumper. And why it wasn't a game-changer. As always, thanks all for watching. And I'll be seeing you soon, On the D4A channel.