2024 marks thirty years since the opening or as they say in Calais, Le tunnel sous la tunnel connects England with France, crossing section of the English Channel. The tunnel their cars, too) to cross the channel in just While there are longer tunnels out there, this When it was proposed in the mid-1980s, it project ever, and like so many mega projects, it unlike many megaprojects, this one was funded thing, too, because it hasn't exactly been a &quot;Depending on your viewpoint, the Channel feats of the 20th Century or one of the Elephant or not, the tunnel is legendary among I thought it was about time I dug into it. It below the sea, and this monumental project cretaceous geology, to managing air pressure, there are so many technical details I think are and this is Practical Engineering; today, [musical transition] The idea of building a permanent connection Channel isn't a new one. An engineer way back in tunnel intended to be lit with oil lamps, horse changes, and some pretty scary ventilation there. In 1882, another tunnel proposed got in fact. Several thousand meters of tunnel regarding the fear of future potential another attempt to build a tunnel broke too. It wasn't until the mid-1980s that the accepted and work began in earnest. A handful of including an even more ambitious project featuring above the sea using an exotic fiber called parafil Unsurprisingly, this monster bridge did not get railroad connection won, and work began on tunnel as three separate tunnels with a variety railway tunnels, each with one-way service across between the two. The three service tunnels pretty impressively, met in the middle, deep two feet. They were even able to incorporate some The accuracy of this dig is even more tunnels aren't level or straight. The geology a bit complicated. There are layers of and the project was designed to follow although some geologists call it marly chalk. This fissures than the overlying material. But that chalk was the best option for tunneling under In some ways, those past proposals and attempts technology just hadn't reached the level to make one piece of equipment had made huge strides flair you'd expect from any civil engineer, Drilling is just one of the multitude and TBMs manage to combine and accomplish them all There are lots of different styles and sizes of separate machines to finish the job. Most of us but doing it through soil and rock, underwater, adds some nuance to the process. For one, so the whole machine has to fit inside the tunnel push at the back of the drill. Instead, tunnel use hydraulic cylinders to provide the thrust except in the most ideal circumstances, the hole a cylindrical shield at the front to support the lined with cast iron or concrete and sealed Also, there's pressure. The soil, rock, and water When you try to excavate, especially in the French side of the project, they have the Many of the TBMs used in the channel tunnel machines. Here's how they work: The rotating allowing it to pass through openings into pliable paste. As the machine moves forward, to match the earth and water pressure on the and preventing uncontrolled inflow of water. Its speed is carefully adjusted to remove only Even that wasn't enough in some cases. Water constant problem, making it difficult to work and inject grout into the rock ahead of the machine, through it. Imagine trying to drill a hole through be easier to push, but it sure would make a mess. more physically challenging to drill through, There are so many examples like that, where drastically, just from running into problems Most TBMs come with a train of equipment to cutter head and lining systems. Each machine cranes, transportation facilities, and more. And and people in and out. Workers, lining segments, from the entrance of the tunnel, often over miles spoils have to travel the same distance, often on French side of the Channel Tunnel, the spoils known as Fond Pignon. On the British side, the of new England. Well, not New England, but a the site of the UK side's cooling plant, but Keeping the tunnel headed in the right they needed to stay in the right geological through unstable ground. Of course, engineers had core samples from the surface. Those cores only like trying to navigate a car by looking they were drilling from both directions with were guided with a sophisticated laser system the marly chalk. Without a direct line of sight along the tunnels with extreme accuracy. Any since there was no way to "close the loop." horizontally and vertically, along the way to One of the ingenious parts of the channel tunnel rest of construction. In a way, this tunnel was with less risk, encountering the challenges the main tunnels. It was also a way to confirm aligned properly when they met in the middle, For the first time since the ice Europe to Great Britain. Several of the TBMs were since the cost of getting them out was too high. Connecting a hole in the ground all the way though. Many more engineering challenges lay two large, one-way rail tunnels with diameters (16 ft) diameter service tunnel running between two enormous crossover caverns where the two gigantic steel doors keep the two sides allowing trains to cross over from one tunnel can shut down large sections without The service tunnel connects both rail tunnels allow for emergency escape from the rail And they've been used for evacuation including fires in 1996 and 2008. The higher than that in the rail tunnels so rubber-tired vehicles that are kind of like Transport System or STTS. Of course, passenger are primarily, and ideally, used for shuttling Another engineering problem is created very long tunnels. On ordinary outdoor tracks, fairly effortlessly by the leading face of the like a big piston, driving a pressurized slug of The rapid fluctuations in air pressure create and mess with ventilation systems. a series of 2-meter-wide connections called passage of air from one tunnel into the to go instead of just riding in front of the engineering of the tunnel was investigating holes would function like a big flute. Getting fresh air along the tunnels is another its value. In addition to providing access to it also acts as a duct, delivering fresh air along air to discharge at the tunnel entrances. There can pump air directly into the rail tunnels in Along with ventilation, the tunnel also has for traction, but some of that energy is lost ordinary railroad situations, this would be dissipate this heat. But engineers estimated in the tunnel to 122 F or 50 Celsius. So, cooling system. Enormous chilling plants and miles and miles of pipes carry chilled 35 C. Air conditioners on the trains bring this comfort, rejecting more heat that has to Of course, being a rail link between the two enormous rail terminals on either side, one located near Calais. There's a shuttle that with them, effectively connecting the highways of passenger train service that crosses through the or HS1, in 2007, it is now possible to take The ordinary shuttle trains run on a loop, that goes from the exit of one tunnel, loops order to avoid uneven wheel wear from always the French side features a crossover, which makes aren't the only cargo that passes through the as well. There are services for heavy trucks a club car for the drivers to hang out in during also pass through the tunnel, with service Clearly, the channel tunnel is a triumph of the world study its design and construction though. Like so many mega projects, there was ten workers perished in the construction of the to trade safety for construction speed, even on after multiple lawsuits and investigations, things far fewer safety incidents. The tunnel has also and asylum-seeking in the UK, including The project also went significantly over budget, slated to be the MOST EXPENSIVE construction talks about some of the reasons projects like won't go into all those details here. The Channel unlike most large infrastructure projects of burden and risk was taken by banks and individual There aren't many infrastructure projects the tunnel has slowly turned a profit, but While it may be the most epic way to cross ONLY way. Discount airlines in Europe are far and in many cases, it is more desirable especially if their ultimate destination is not France. Plus, for thousands of years, people have totally viable and economically competitive choose a ferry over the sense of wonder and of the most incredible tunnels in history, A lot has changed over the 30 years Construction technologies, of course, whole has evolved as well. There's probably a if we could go back to those days when the many would argue that perhaps it shouldn't have the complexity of the job in a world of cheap and 21st-century financial markets, it costs would be outweighed by the benefits. But that's part of the rub with megaprojects: it's impossible to separate their and the benefits they provide compared to last year, construction finished on a between the UK and France through the tunnel, a if the tunnel wasn't already there. It's easy to expensive projects in the face of an uncertain create opportunities and benefits that permeate I'm an engineer, so I see the achievement through the most spectacular engineering feats of history. from the intensive geological research leading up so many miles of marl, from the creative to the unsung hero of the service tunnel. I'm glad it's there. I haven't had the opportunity but if and when I do, I know how I'm One thing that's kind of hard to keep in when it was built, there was almost nothing many tunnels this long in the world, and most were no 30-mile-long-undersea-tunnel experts. that's one of the coolest parts of engineering: execute an idea that's never been tried before. a satellite by slinging it into space. Could it my friend Brian of the Real Engineering channel to From centripetal motion to the heat and strength lot of the engineering challenges of an idea I love learning. I think one of the most to always be broadening your horizons. And trying to understand topics more deeply. try things out, fail, and try again. It's Brilliant. I think it's the best way to get and programming interactively. There are thousands and they're always adding new ones every month so try this yourself, completely free for 30 days at and see if there's not something on there that that." The link is in the description. Thank you