(lively music) - In the span of a week, (audience members laughing) Democrats have gone from the despair of a certain Trump presidency to the joy of a statistical tie. (audience members laughing) (audience members cheering) Which, which, right now, that feels like, right now, that feels like victory. (audience members laughing) - Already, the prospect of her candidacy has injected enthusiasm and energy. - [Reporter] She's received a and cash. - [Reporter] She's raised since President Biden dropped out. - [Reporter] It's a Zoom World record, more than 100,000 white women mobilized for Vice (audience members laughing) - 100,000 white women, that is a giant group of white women. (audience members laughing) I believe the scientific term (audience members laughing) That is called a goop of women. $200 million they've raised, a united, enthusiastic Democratic party, a huge reversal in one week, and they said it couldn't be done. - Joe Biden is going to be the nominee. - This is fantasy stuff, but Biden's not going anywhere. - This is not an Aaron Sorkin, you know, West Wing episode (audience members laughing) - Joe Biden is our nominee, - We literally have three either you vote for Donald Trump, you vote for Joe Biden, or you stay on the couch. (audience members laughing) - I think we know which JD Vance would offer. (audience members laughing) (audience members cheering and applauding) Even I don't feel good about that joke. What do I know? A simple (audience members laughing) (audience members cheering and applauding) Okay, let me explain very quickly. A reference to being a Chappel (audience members laughing and applauding) Now... Somebody in the audience, young people come here. But listen, man, the pundits but it did happen, and the Republicans are - They just steamrolled democracy. - The Democrats are trying - The ultimate election interference. - This was a coup inside (audience members laughing) - A coup d'etat. - A bloodless coup. (audience members laughing) - But I get it, if I thought you were gonna be going and then they pull this, I'd be like, &quot;Ref! Ref! Open your eyes! How can you not see? They're (audience members laughing) And by the way, I love in the phrase &quot;bloodless coup.&quot; This is a bloodless coup, what kind of fun is that? At least we brought bear (audience members laughing) But you know what? I do It makes sense. So, how about we do this, out of fairness, I'm a fair person, you can replace your old (audience members laughing and applauding) Let's try and balance this. Boom, boom! Even Steven. (audience members laughing) By the way, speaking of your old guy, he responded to the change to Harris in the Trumpiest way possible. (audience members laughing) - [Reporter] Donald Trump posted this on his Truth Social account, quote, &quot;So we are forced to spend time and money on fighting crooked Joe Biden, now we have to start all over again. (audience members laughing) Shouldn't the Republican party (audience members laughing) - Do you have any idea how much money on Let's Go Brandon ear (audience members laughing) Made in America, via Bangladesh, My Trump is too Jerry Lewis. (audience members laughing) (audience members laughing) You're gonna have to You've had Cookie Joe and you're gonna need a new line of attack. - She doesn't like Jewish people. (audience members laughing) - Join the club, we're Right now, I'm not even sure (audience members laughing) It's not like the old Seinfeld days when we were riding high. You know? (hums Seinfeld theme) (audience members laughing) (Jon laughing quietly) You could get a bagel in Iowa. Yeah, gimme a schmeer in Ames, Iowa. (Jon humming Seinfeld theme) Of course, that attack may ring hollow, seeing as Kamala Harris' husband is, let me check my notes, Jewish! Do you have anything else that could denigrate all of by suggesting it's merely - It is relevant when a young candidate tries to sleep her way into and that is what it - She's never earned or won anything, like, she was legitimately in California state government because she was sleeping (audience members groaning) and then he backed her in her - Okay, squeaks, (audience members laughing) I don't know, guys, you're Isn't there a grosser - Kamala Harris, he's the that's the way she got where she is. (audience members laughing and groaning) - That's what I'm talking about! That's the kind of from a guy who looks like away from getting in a fight (audience members laughing) You (beep). You little, little tuft of hair, you're not fooling anybody, baldy! (audience members laughing) So sexist, saying Kamala Harris Joe Biden and Donald Trump literally slept their way to the top, and we never heard a (beep) peep about it. Does anybody have a substantive critique? - Her record is extraordinarily radical. Let me say at the outset, Kamala can't have my guns, she can't have my gasoline engine, and she sure as hell can't have (audience members laughing) - Sir, I don't want to be rude, but (audience members laughing) it does appear that you could at least share some of your cheeseburgers. (audience members laughing) Hmm? Hmm? (audience members laughing) Looks like you'll still Hmm? Tubs, hmm? (audience members laughing) Good to see you have mutton chops in case you get hungry, hmm? (audience members laughing) But is Harris really that radical? - If you combine Bernie you get Kamala Harris. (audience members laughing and groaning) - If you combine Bernie you get Kamala Harris? That can't be. You know what? There is an (audience members laughing) Neil Patrick Harris?! (audience members applauding and cheering) Oh my god! It's Neil Patrick Harris. I love that guy. He's the best! Come on, guys, nobody is the second coming of Karl Marx. And even when they get they undercut them immediately. - Even when she was in California, she was very soft on crime. - The same Kamala Harris, who, as a California prosecutor put people in prison to - She's too soft on crime, People, we open in (audience members laughing) You're flailing. Dig deep. - It's one final thing she's hated by people who worked for her. - Oh, my (beep) God. (audience members laughing) Are you kidding me? - Everybody that worked for Kamala quit. - A very aggressive, angry, bullying boss. - She's not a nice person to work with. - She's a terrible boss. - Your candidate's Donald Trump. (audience members laughing and applauding) His catchphrase is He's the Anna Wintour of (audience members laughing) Donald Trump hired 44 cabinet members, 75% of them want nothing His Secretary of State His Chief of Staff said, &quot;He's the most flawed You know why he needs a new I'll tell you why, he tried (audience members laughing and applauding) No, terrible. They're flailing. You know what? If you want something Donald, you're gonna have to hit Kamala with one of your magic nicknames. - Laughing Kamala, L-A-F-F-I-N, (audience members laughing) (audience members laughing) - Eh. - So, now we have a new victim to defeat, lyin' Kamala Harris. Lyin', L-Y-I-N, apostrophe. (crowd booing) (audience members laughing) - Okay. You know what? I hate to say it, guys, but you tried, you gave her your best. I kind of think you're to your classics. It's worked for you in the think you're gonna have to play the hits. - I think she was a DEI hire. - 100%, she was a DEI hire. - She would be the queen She is DEI. - I think that this whole DE&amp;I has already been exposed. - This woman, this disaster, whose only qualification (graphic whooshing) (audience members laughing and groaning) - So, I guess she's black. Or is she? - She's not African American, her mother's from India, she grew up in Canada, and she So she has no common experiences - She's not one of you. She's not even married to one of you. - She's also about as - This is how desperate they are. Is she black? Is she Indian? Nobody knows. - Two races? In one person? (audience members laughing) Huh? Now I've seen everything. I heard she sent her DNA to 23andMe, and it broke the computer. (audience members laughing and applauding) I don't know what to If these people ever saw they'd lose their (beep) minds. - Democrats are super fired up about having a candidate (audience members laughing) Nearly every night now, huge groups are gathering It started with black women for Harris, and then black men for Harris, and then white women. And last night, white dudes took a break from trying to have sex with Asian women to do their Zoom call. - [Reporter] Monday night's &quot;White Dudes for Harris&quot; livestream raised more than $4 million, - More than 150,000 the call included possible the labor leaders, among the stars were Joseph Gordon Levitt. - [Reporter] Actor Jeff Bridges, - Like qualifying, man, I'm white, I'm a dude, and I'm for Harris. (audience members cheering and applauding) I'm so excited, a woman - Aw, I mean, it is cool but if anyone was waiting to see who the Big Lebowski endorses, I don't think that's the group that's gonna remember to vote. (audience members laughing) But 150,000 white dudes joined the Zoom, because nothing says &quot;I'll do like clicking on the Zoom (audience members laughing) The white dudes did raise a lot of money, although the Zoom went off the rails when someone asked if anyone (audience members laughing) And I personally am glad they found a way to make segregation progressive, (audience members laughing) but I'm just saying, when white people develop (audience members laughing) It starts out like, &quot;Hey, and then soon it's (audience members laughing) We should get some uniforms.&quot; But Democrats aren't waiting they've been subtly field and see if you can spot it. - The way they address And it's weird, it is weird. - That stuff is weird. They come across weird, they - A super weird idea from JD Vance. (audience members laughing) - Yeah, it's not, I - They're just weird. - More weird. - That's just plain weird. (audience members laughing) - Weird. What about Donald Trump is weird? (audience members laughing) - Yeah, yeah! (audience members laughing and clapping) - Yeah, I just don't see it. (audience members laughing) Now, calling someone weird &quot;He tried to overthrow democracy.&quot; (audience members laughing) On the other hand, you know, that message didn't really stick. I mean, Democrats spent &quot;Hey, everybody, remember January 6th?&quot; And most Americans were like, &quot;We don't remember and or care.&quot; So now Democrats are like, &quot;Hey, wasn't trying to kinda weird?&quot; Like, who even does that? And now people are like, &quot;Yeah, I guess that is kind of weird.&quot; The best part about this line of attack is that there is no defense to it. I mean, you can't say, &quot;Guys, guys, I'm not weird,&quot; because that sounds weird. And although Democrats have to be clear about what kind of weird because people could think like David Bowie or Jeff Goldblum, they gotta be like, &quot;No, Like the penguin from Batman.&quot; (audience members laughing) What was up with that guy? It's like, &quot;Hey, I'm a bad guy, but I'm also into Antarctic (audience members laughing) And one of the weird things that they've been hitting them on is this comment Vance made in 2021. - We're effectively run in this via our corporate oligarchs, by a bunch of childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they've made, and so they wanna make miserable too. (audience members groaning) - Yeah, I mean, if you have friends who've you know how totally miserable they are. Oh, (groans) I got too much disposable income. (audience cheering and applauding) My life is so hard, I I still have a sex life, please kill me. (audience members laughing) So, after getting backlash, JD Vance tried to do damage control, but it turns out he didn't misspeak, he's been shit-talking - The controversial comments he made questioning the judgment they were not a one-off. He told a crowd, quote, &quot;Babies are good because we're not sociopaths.&quot; He appealed to donors by &quot;Radical, childless Cat ladies must be stopped.&quot; - You go on Twitter, and almost always, the people who are most are people who don't have kids at home. (audience members laughing) - Yeah, of course, they're they're on Twitter, that's where they live. It doesn't matter how many kids you have, the most deranged person (audience members laughing) So, today, Trump sat with the National Association and things got off to a rocky start. - A lot of people did not for you to be here today. You have pushed false claims from Nikki Haley, to former saying that they were not which is not true. You have told four congresswomen of color, who were American citizens, to go back to where they came from. You have used words like animal and rabid to describe black district attorneys. You've had dinner with a white supremacist at your Mar-a-Lago resort. So my question, sir, why should black voters trust you after you have used language like that? - Ooh, tough question. But hey, at least this is a good chance for former President Trump to address the concerns of black voters by answering with civility and grace. - Well, first of all, I don't think I've ever in such a horrible manner, (audience members laughing) You don't even, &quot;Hello, how are you?&quot; Are you with ABC? Because I think they're a terrible network. (crowd exclaiming) - Okay, okay, not a great start talking to a room full but you can still recover. - I think it's a very rude introduction, I don't know exactly why you You invited me under false pretense. And then you were half an hour late, just so we understand, I have too much respect I think it's a very nasty question. - [Interviewer] Love if on your rhetoric and why you with your comments. - I have answered the question. I have been the best president (crowd member hooting) since Abraham Lincoln. That's my answer. - [Interviewer] Better who signed the Voting Rights Act? And for you to start off a especially when you're 35 minutes late, because you couldn't get in such a hostile manner, I think it's a disgrace. (Ronny chuckling) (audience member hooting) Trump was like, listen up, black your microphones are ghetto, (audience members laughing) I mean, I think he just (audience members laughing) For most politicians, that would have been a low But because it's Donald - Do you believe that Vice is only on the ticket - Well, I can say now, I think it's maybe a little bit different. So, I've known her a not directly very much, and she was always of Indian heritage, and she was only I didn't know she was black when she happened to turn black and now she wants to be known as black. (crowd members laughing) So, I don't know, is she - [Interviewer] She has always and she went from - I respect either one. I respect either one, but because she was Indian all the way, and then all of a sudden she made a turn, (crowd members laughing) she became a black person. - [Interviewer] Just to be clear, sir, do you believe that she's- - And I think somebody And you ask and continue in (audience members laughing) - I don't know what's worse, that he thinks she turned or that he thinks someone (audience members laughing) Who should look into that? Like, does he think the FBI is the Federal Black (audience members laughing) I don't think she turned She's Indian and black. Like, what does he think happens? When the time is right, Indians going to a cocoon, and they play some Drake, and they come out black. It's very clear that how to handle Kamala Harris right now, he's trying to find the angle of attack. And today, he was hitting her race, yesterday, he was hitting her age. - She is younger, but I a lot of people, I didn't I thought she was a little (audience members laughing) - I guess Trump just discovered (Ronny chuckling) I mean, this is gonna be a as a compliment. Like, show us your birth certificate, because you don't look So just drop the skincare routine, girl. I bet Trump spent the rest of the day just Googling how old (audience members laughing) Like, Morgan Freeman, 200 (audience members laughing) To be fair, Trump does have some substantive but he can't seem to say them without making it gross and personal, like when he was asked in negotiations with foreign leaders. (transition graphic swishing) - How would they consider just in geopolitical- - I think they'll walk all over her. - How so? - I think they look at her, I think they'll walk all over her. She'll be so easy for them. She'll be like a play toy, they look at her and they say, &quot;We can't believe we got so lucky.&quot; They're gonna walk all over her. And I don't want to say as to why, but a lot of people understand it. (audience members laughing) - He's like, &quot;I don't wanna say why she'd be a bad president, but you know, the he-he, and the hoo-ha, and the fellas get it.&quot; I'm pretty sure Kamala can I mean, she did just overthrow the president of the United States. (audience members laughing) Also, nobody was easier to Like foreign leaders just had and Trump treated them like a best friend. I mean, Saudi Arabia bone-sawed and Trump was fine with it because they let him touch an orb. (audience members laughing) I mean, I am pretty sure none Right now, she's on top of the world, because she's enjoying life - [Reporter] Atlanta for Vice President Harris, and a rap star came with a - Hotties for Harris! - [Reporter] Megan Thee made this the largest crowd more than 10,000 people - Well, Donald, as the saying goes, if you've got something to say- - [Crowd] Say it to my face. - Say it to my face. - [Reporter] Thousands waited - Does she make it easier for Democrats to win Georgia in November? - [All] Yes. - Yeah, we're so excited, we don't have to vote (audience members laughing) Boo, Joe Biden, boo! You know, I do feel bad for Biden, like, everyone's going crazy for Kamala and he's at home with (audience members laughing) And I've never seen so much This is like when people it's supposed to land, okay? That's the bare minimum. When this election started, I thought it would be or maybe immigration, but things took a weird turn this week. And now it seems like the most (audience members laughing) As you all know, vice is of Indian and Jamaican descent, and who better to understand than this guy? - [Reporter] Former president Donald Trump now facing backlash after questioning Vice President Kamala during the National Association annual convention. - She was Indian all the way, and then all of a sudden she made a turn, and she went, she became a black person. - [Reporter] Just a week after the event, the former president posted where Harris called herself Indian, and a cooking video with - Okay, so what we're gonna cook today. - Okay. - Is an Indian recipe. - Because you are an Indian. - Yes, yes. - But actually, we're both South Indian. - Yes, you look like the (audience members chuckling) - Damn, I forgot how after Michael Scott left. So, Trump posted this video, but I'm like, how did he even find this? Was he doing deep oppo research on Mindy Kaling's Instagram page? Like, how far down the Is he gonna come out next week like, Kamala Harris is not black, and Mindy and BJ Novak (audience members laughing) Do the right thing, BJ, make (audience members laughing) And also, this doesn't He's saying that Kamala identified and this is a video of her Like, what does Trump think She's half Indian and half woman, that's one though, that's one thing. (audience members laughing) How does this guy not Like he constantly tells us he's a genius, but he can't comprehend a golden doodle. (audience members laughing) Also, by the way, Trump doesn't get to decide only Kendrick Lamar can do that, okay? (audience members laughing) So, Kendrick, weigh in here. Meanwhile, the Trump campaign has Indian problems of its own. JD Vance has been getting because his wife is Indian. And if you're thinking, &quot;Wow, I'd go ape shit on them,&quot; (audience members laughing) - Look, I love my wife so much, I love her because she's who she is. Obviously, she's not a white person, and we've been attacked by some white supremacists over that. Bu I just, I love Usha, - Yeah, wow. Way to casually defend your wife against white supremacists, JD. (audience members laughing) I mean, I'm not a romance expert, but I don't think anyone wants to hear, &quot;She's not white, but I love her,&quot; right? (audience members laughing) That's not a message you're gonna see on those Valentine's Day candies. (audience members laughing) I mean, look, I mean, I hope those Like, look, you're obviously not white, but, I do. (audience members laughing) Enough about Indians, let's move on. Because while JD Vance Kamala still needs to - We now know we are just days away from finding out who Kamala - [Reporter] Harris now Her campaign just over a week old, but she's already expected in the coming days. The two will then hit the road together, visiting several key battleground states, starting with a rally in - [Journalist] Madam Vice President, have you chosen your VP yet? Have you chosen yet? - Wow, what a change. The Democratic nominee for president walked up a flight of with a head turn. She turned her head while walking, (audience applauding) and none of us were covering our eyes and clenching our assholes. (audience members laughing) I mean, compared to Biden, she's like Simone Biles up there. (audience members laughing) Kamala is expected to pick and according to reports, it's come down to about five finalists who all bring different You've got Pete Buttigieg, the only man in America (audience member cheering) for non-racist reasons. There's also Andy Bashir, he's the popular governor of Kentucky, and the first person with his accent to ever say the phrase &quot;Trans rights.&quot; You've also got Minnesota he's actually the one who started calling Donald Trump weird. Which, again, I just don't see it. - The late, great Hannibal (audience members laughing) - Totally normal here. (chuckles) Another top candidate is Mark Kelly, AKA, Senator Clean. This guy is a fighter which is extremely badass. I mean, how would Trump &quot;Look at this 'Top Gun' (audience members laughing) Aw shit.&quot; This guy would be so good He'd be like, &quot;Oh, you wrote a memoir That's cool, I jacked off in space.&quot; (audience members laughing) Checkmate. Plus he's got a identical twin brother who's also an astronaut. Like, how cool is that? This is just like the Kelsey Brothers if they stayed in school. (audience members laughing) I mean, just think of all the they could switch places, and now the other twin is the one doing absolutely nothing as VP. (audience members laughing) But as of today, it looks like the front runner is Pennsylvania's Josh Shapiro. (audience members cheering) He's popular, he's the governor of and I know I'm a foreigner but just listen to this guy speak, because, I mean, is he doing an Obama? - You could not have a You could not have a clearer contrast between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump. Now, let me tell you something, he's pretty afraid. Y'all see, he's backing (crowd member laughing) He's afraid to stand toe to It's 'cause he can't run away (audience members laughing) - Okay, that's not just me, right? Like we all hear that? Like, I was almost &quot;And that's why you should vote for me, Josh Hussein Shapiro.&quot; (audience members laughing) It's like he's hyping by listening to Obama's old speeches, and the cadence is like, I mean, I bet if I put a photo you would have no idea it - [Josh] He knows what he's doing. (audience members laughing) He's got no guardrails around him anymore, and he's told us what he wants to do. (audience members laughing) What'd Maya Angelou say? When someone tells you who they are? - [Crowd Members] Believe 'em. - [Josh] Believe 'em! - I mean, even the Maya Angelou reference is laying it on a little thick. (audience members laughing) I wouldn't be surprised if Obama asked him for (audience members laughing) I mean, wait, are you me? At this point, it could be I mean, she could be like, &quot;Hey, Trump, you think I'm Well, check out my VP.&quot; (audience members laughing) Anyway, soon, (audience cheering and applauding) soon we'll know which and there was some other like Gretchen Whitmer, or but there's just something about them that the news media - It sure would help if there who looked like all of to help her out. - She needs a southern white - She's gonna need a white male. And if you can get one from a swing state, I think it's really important. - I do wonder if it is inevitable that this is a white man summer as far as it concerns (audience members laughing) - I mean, that is so blunt. You know, at least be subtle about it. They should say like, hey, she needs somebody who wears cargo shorts and can play &quot;Wonder Wall&quot; on the guitar. (audience members laughing) (lively music)