Mercedes GLE vs BMW X5. Who is the king of We're going to find out for with Thomas and Autogefuhl Let's go with this super We already had Mercedes GLC vs BMW X3. We had the S-Class vs 7-Series, E-Class against the 5-Series. And always it How will it turn out today? Here we start with Both have been facelifted This one is here the AMG line. So you have a sportier accentuation spoke here in the grille and this There's also the base It will have two spokes here and not And actually I would I would prefer it like this here in the With the BMW X5. This is the X-Line, since the facelift this is also the kind of off-road I would call it that way. You can also get Then you have sportier design, especially here in the There's even an M Performance parts but maybe too much. So I would pick them as they the X5 as the X-Line. More the off-roadish look but with AMG line or what Well, when we take a look at the side they are both 194 So 4 meters 94 So more or less Also 19 to 22 inch wheels. These here are 20 inch The Mercedes GLE So a little bigger sportier look. Suspension wise is So the BMW starts with an and then it goes optional Special thing is that here is also With the GLE you upgrade to the air suspension as optional the E-Active body control that We also have it tell you more about if Just rear-axle steering is not So maybe in the US it doesn't but in Europe it would actually, especially for narrow Then towards the rear, the facelift also upgraded here for the GLE with the There we go, and... Autogefuhl Fake these are clear fake exhaust the X5 has fake exhaust exhaust does run through In the X-line once again you have these I think overall very here the tail lamps very Turning indicators indeed BMWs since the facelift in this arrow design with Mercedes more The colors by the way Mercedes and Blue Ridge Which one would you go for from Tell me in the comments. These are two key fobs. They both have a Which one would you prefer? The Mercedes one the BMW one is a little bit And door closing sounds. GLE first. That's a nice sound. Inside of the door, soft touch here, a little bit softer for your elbow. Inside door pockets, however, hard pack. There's just this rubber bottom, so no felt on the inside. Interior, let's go here. Mercedes GLE. Since the facelift, you now have these horizontal lines And I talked to Lea and she actually suggested... That it looks like sunshades on the So I think it's a I found it actually quite cool, I have to say. Then you also get this lot of air vent design Then a carbon fiber Of course, you can pick different ones. What I prefer with the GLE that You still have the manual so you can easily I do prefer that actually. BMW had that but Two times 12.3 inch has here with software in Pretty clean design. This lower touchpad here, I would prefer a real turning So this you can control like this or then You also have some nice Not only here. In the main but also then here in the instruments. Then middle console is like with this two... off-road to hold tight things. Then air suspension you can put up and down here. Split armrest with also nice closing sound. A lot of high gloss black Slide it open then you They work pretty well. Also here, move them a little bit more open and then Why not? Inductive charging pad also in the Then the steering wheel has been It means two horizontal spokes. However, now in the facelift, #CapacitiveBS buttons. So it looks cleaner but to swipe in the head-up display sometimes fails. And you and you can even pick Seats here in the GLE, animal skin spec, however, the Artico leatherette In general, the material is quite cannot keep up with It's a good comfort in general. Here headroom, 1.89m, 6'2&quot;, a lot left. There is a panoramic available And this is the problem. So here in the middle console, this is softer but then this definitely harder and sometimes And that is actually too driving. So this is a design Rear seating. The inside way is also soft touch However, the door pockets neither in covered on the inside both hard Hmm for that price really? However, then the rear seating. You fall a little We have a lot of legroom look at that so Even if a tall driver is driving. And headroom is also no quite good in the comfort. I'm really looking forward the X5. Inside of the rear Top soft, lower part hard pack. the rear since we also have softer, more comfortable indeed. Wow! It's way more from the seating itself. Headroom there's headroom than the X5. And also you can So the GLE has way However, the seating comfort, especially for tall adults, is actually better then in the X5. It still is okay from Yeah, the question is what is More legroom or the better seating Door closing Also really nice. I couldn't really say It's both cool. And then Also soft touch Also good build quality. Here inside of the door pocket also That's disappointing indeed. Then the cockpit. This is the normal There's also an M It looks sporty but I this one because it just The X5 still has real wheel. And with a So I would prefer this Seats. These ones are the so they are animal-free, more sustainable, animal-friendly, and also the like this top bolstering here, how it goes deep in there, also the quilting on it. Black or also bright These ones are standard wow, best in comfort overall. Are actually among the most comfortable both from ergonomics So this is very well done and indeed way Also here, this lower part here, you could put this one a little It's also very helpful. And you can even adjust back part of the seat but only just the very top area you can Cockpit in front of the X5, the decor element here in wood. Isn't Lea's favorite she says it I love the wood decor However, I usually prefer the matte Nevertheless, you can also pick non-wood decor Since the facelift illuminated X5 badge. Here here to control the And this one screen design 12.3, 14.5, so a little bit bigger bigger than with the GLE. The thing is it looks however, the AC unit is now in what I don't like so pre-facelift. Then again, the Apple CarPlay connection, the wireless one, is better now with the facelift So there's pro and con Then in the lower part, that's actually cool. There's still a turning you can also control the I prefer it here in the BMW. You slide this one open. Also adaptive cup holders. They're also heated and cooled, if you like. Inductive charging pad. However, this one is not cooled. This is a problem. The phone does overheat Also a split armrest some space and USB-C charging. And the thing is that here... I don't have a problem it's always in that with the elbow on So here it's always soft when Headroom by the way also plenty Oh here also with a nice microfiber ceiling. Digital instruments They come alive when you you also can have an On the left side but you also have it And you also get Now, Lea is showing us the sun visor. Here you can actually make Also nice microfiber covering So that's good. It's also the same in the GLE. Now in the GLE, material-wise... No comparison actually, so this is way cheaper So with the BMW it here it's harder and... Could you make No. No? Not possible. So yeah, that's the point for the X5 then. Yes, for the trunk, it's interesting here the X5 has in the top and then you can move And this is maybe cool like for can really sit down here and Of course, you can also let it just up Size-wise, it doesn't make too 650 liters for the X5, a couple of liters but doesn't make Width here, 1.1 meters or 43 inches. That's good. And the length here is also a little That's good. As well as for the height, it's like 80 centimeters By the way, it's pretty cool. Look at that here. My suitcase is lying on that, and this here has a gas strut. And like underneath the cover that's And then you can put more things in there, or maybe a spare That's cool. However facelift do not always So here they removed this So to fold the seats then I Yeah, and I didn't have to do that both close simultaneously. Sometimes you, you know, just by mistake, not intentionally You have to pay Then the GLE. There we go. And the width here with the Length comparable meter or 40 Oh, there's actually also a little bit So that's interesting although the GLE looks better actually. This one no gas strut but a So maybe it's the thing. Yeah you can see here figures here because You know, like cut off here, whereas the X5 continues That's maybe the thing. We can put down the car because so we're better But then again, there's also no remote release. So, I mean, at that price point, there definitely should be one, shouldn't there? So, and we can push I always love that shot here. Hulk is opening both hoods. So, there we go. The BMW 3.0L 6 cylinder or then cylinder in the M Performance And that's basically it on And the plug-in hybrid is also With the Mercedes, you also have the three-liter However, you also start with two-liter depending on the market, if it's available. And their plug-in hybrids are However, there's just one 53 hybrid that's also based Then there's, once again, also a four-liter eight-cylinder for example. Well, so what we'll say is, let's say the engine line up is but they still offer a lot of And we both have three or six cylinders All right, Thomas's Comparison starting with BMW X5. We switch here to Ooh, then we get like this preload from the Let's go! 150 170 180 And now we have to pay attention, we don't crash into someone. acceleration here for in this case the diesel, 5.5 seconds in the that was really decent and sound actually so you don't feel like that's not happening diesel actually and power on the road definitely. Here the have to say I told you earlier that looks is actually better to control as well feel that the M Sport steering asymmetrical feeling to it feels more natural and Lea is now thinking maybe I'm car OCD-ish I have to make that up is by the way here in Because we recently did a the S shifting mode versus sport When you are in an Audi or it automatically switches Here it's separate. So here it says S6, one more time it says D. So the Sport mode and the sport shifting That's interesting. And the thing is that the S shifting tight bends and you have acceleration back and forth. But here for the it's not necessarily So that's why I kept it in but kept it in normal Because then maybe some The last time we 4-cylinder diesel, it was actually a second quicker in the Very interesting, isn't it? Now here 120 kmh, I can also go back to the air suspension is also This one here equipped with We're driving a large SUV on the 80 mph and it is very silent, good noise insulation, it's super comfortable. The seats are a dream, the so-called Einsetzhohe. such a good, like one of the best And not only the one of the best seats out Lea, your comment? I'm talking about the car here, please pay attention. But that's the case. I mean, she's like dreaming away because So there's always the sign like when it's like so relaxed, you know. I mean, I was just doing like She's like so relaxed So yeah, definitely proves my point. Best comfort here in the seats and no problem, all mileage and mileage. That's very excellent. And the steering Fine nuances And I always feel that the SUV steering feel here than for example with That's kind of astonishing. I'm not sure why that is. If the SUVs, the big ones, are all built in the US maybe these guys in the hey, let's make a better steering setup than I have no idea why that is. Or in Mexico, of course, for the three series for the Northern American market, whereas the three series for So here also when you're there's always the pin down available Here of course the torque For the North 3.6 petrol will be the most definitely comparable for It's a great engine and about engines that recent very good reliability figures been the case like maybe And you know they had like a great in driving but then when you But here BMW has massively rankings that is very Whereas with Mercedes they went actually a factor to consider here as well but such Although you're driving it doesn't shake up much and When you are in then the air suspension gives you more feedback. But it's not that you would, you know, when you get in the vehicle you would directly not notice which Which is I think rather a good thing mode and it will be good both on Do you need the air I would say no. It's good, definitely. But the normal adaptive good that you do not So I would recommend, you know, or maybe by used it's no problem which suspension If you think about buying long not to have the air suspension there is a repair after a long the base suspension than the Oh there's a German police blind spot monitor also We can also test the cruise can change the mode for Just the normal cruise control between the The car is basically Of course you have to keep your But you see here there The car is being centralized And now when the motorway left you can see it's still Overall that is really driving experience I wonder if the Mercedes GLE And now the Mercedes GLE, let's put here to the Sport mode 50 kmh. Let's go! 130. 150 170 180 200 kmh/125 mph. I mean we're driving a large SUV and still feels really is pretty good at that Yeah, it drives really well. New steering wheel with Also very nice to control. The steering has It's more direct, more feedback. Just here in the very, yeah, this like very... Yeah, something happens So in this, you know, very low degree angle, there the BMW more direct input, but then to the outside, it's definitely better. And it was also astonishing you need a little bit especially in the Sport mode. So the BMW steering I mean, yes, it's a little bit lighter, but at the same time, it has more natural feeling to it. So both on a very good level, but the BMW steering Suspension-wise, I do prefer the air I feel that if you go with then the BMW is better. If you go with the this one here has a Why? Especially when I'm here this air suspension... Here, when there are it just has a little softer setup. It gives you this air carpet ride, whereas the BMW is And I prefer that if you you also feel clearly that That's what I prefer Although we have here 21 inch wheels So suspension wise both are super the like normal motorway speeds 80 miles an hour is are very silent that's So super comfortable motorway seats clearly These seats here are You also get the But in both cases, the BMW leatherette seats are other seat choices you basically. So they clearly need it and give so Also the base ergonomics of the So you see it's here, you know, I prefer this one. In other respects, I prefer the other one. It really depends, you know. Controlling it while driving, both touchpins are It's not meant to It's not meant to Here you still have but that's also by a touch, so it doesn't give The only thing that is driving is here that I still I control that one way That one has been, you know, has been deleted with Not a good decision, I feel, because then they would be Yeah, really here, like when running straight, then they have, see here, doesn't do anything Some might prefer that. I don't. So with the X5 I have a more fine Then also when I'm like in a normal Comfort mode, it's very nice, very well done. Here, which is a unique feature, you have the curve mode. This is a special suspension I'm not sure if you but the car leans It's not too much, not too extreme, but you feel and see it. And if you do these dry this is an advantage then Lea also said she does you said like bit by bit a little bit stranger feature to show off but we If we would drive you know, so it's not really needed. US vehicles are usually not You can't really it's still available. Yeah, it's an interesting feature, but you don't really You don't have the rear-axle have in the X5 as an option. but you can get it Well diesel really has In Germany we would say, 'Er hat ordentlich Druck, Alter'. Like... It has a lot of pressure dude! That works very The only thing is that with the BMW you don't feel at all especially in a low speed area, it doesn't happen at feel it's a diesel you know, like instant acceleration. Here the Mercedes diesel So it has a slight delay at first and like the whole torque sets in. Acceleration-wise doesn't So on paper here, like 0.1 seconds. This one here is slower, but that's about it. Excellent motorway both. I think it's more about really That is the biggest difference also But since they both do basically the pure driving experience is not the biggest difference Slight nuances, yes, but both excellent. But what does it mean It's going to be a tough one. So let's start. Exterior-wise, I think it's really a And well, I prefer the AMG line for the GLE and But they're both very So... Exterior wise I think Interior wise just from the looks, I prefer the Mercedes GLE. Then again with the X5 the seating comfort So this is a huge Then again the GLE has Trunk was actually both very well usable. They both drive Base suspension I With the air suspension GLE because it has a The E-Active Body Control, the super extra suspension The diesel engine here, in comparison to the X5 responsive from the engine was lower like 8 liters 9.5 liters for the GLE. So quite a notable difference, 30 MPG US or 35 MPG UK for the X5, but only about 25 MPG US or 30 Pricing also very interesting. Here as the test vehicle 116.000 euros for the for the Mercedes GLE. Of course, a little bit less if you don't pick But in most cases, the GLE will be a little Again, it always depends on They both come very close and no doubt about that. Reliability figures, especially from the indicate lately that BMW as a whole Mercedes dropped And since they test US vehicles, GLE and the GLS so that comes quite So when you think about buying Then, that speaks for the X5. Leasing then of course is something for that if you just lease it two or Overall, taking from all these factors, the question is what is If I would prefer one or the that is not the most To me, the seating company indeed And that is way better course if I buy and own So the thing is I really like to drive both vehicles but when would decide which tomorrow and want to That respect then and everything I would keep the Which one would you go for? And tell me why. Tell me in the comments. And also tune in our other comparisons Mercedes vs. BMW Has always been close sometimes I go this way. By the way, also if you this is also very Between GLE and GLC I would put the GLC. Between X5 and x3. I would actually go with the X5. That's maybe also another