Being middle class, I feel like you're really just So there are certain kinds of assumptions around shattered. And wages, really in some ways, are a reflection workers. Four in ten Americans say that money affects them The consumers that have a whole lot of debt really The middle class was once a symbol of the American But the American middle class today paints quite Being middle class, I feel like you're really just You're in a spot where everyone's like, Hey, You're doing great. You should be fine. And you're underneath the people who are actually It was at least a secure category. Your kids would go to a school that you felt at You probably owned a car or two and you owned college educations. So there were certain kinds of assumptions around shattered. A survey in 2018 found that a third of cover an unexpected expense. In polls, when people are asked about being middle And more people now urge the pollsters to suggest So I think that many people who maybe in prior class now no longer think of themselves that way. So when we think about economic status, we think world. That you are either poor or not poor, But in fact, the reality is that many middle in poverty. In fact, most American families will That precarity, that uncertainty, that is now a U.S. families. So what exactly happened to the American middle A study by the Pew Research Center discovered the majority of Americans, has steadily shrunk About 61% of American adults were considered 51% in 2019. However, the issue still remains widely debated. When people think about the state of the middle is a difficult question, and I think the reason established a formal definition of middle class. I was at a seminar recently where somebody The middle class is gone. And I thought, oh, dear, you know, that's And I understand that it's a sort of a standard but it's just really not accurate. We looked at the size of the middle class in And one of the things that surprised me was the not change. It was about 59% in 1985, and it was Experts instead prefer the term &quot;squeezed&quot; to today. Even if the middle class hasn't statistically more in the way of pressures to maintain or even What it takes to actually live a middle class cities is not what it once was. They're not necessarily able to pay their rent They can't own a property. If they're in their thirties, they may not feel having a child would be too expensive. And forget about medical care. If you have one thing happen to you physically, they don't have any insurance. This all goes into making somebody part of the As the middle class lifestyle grows more expensive reach of younger generations. In 2019, just 60% of millennials were part of compared with almost 70% of baby boomers. Meet Chantal Jacob. Chantal lives in suburban Texas with her husband And while a household income of just over 100,000 she says that her family is still struggling Sounds great. Six figures. But once we got married, the taxes that come out all of my benefits, $500 come out of my check And then you add in insurance, life insurance for And I also have money going aside for my son's It's not a lot because I can't do that much, but I You know, my check that starts off at about $3000 it. Our rent's about $1700. Electricity is about $150. Phone bill's about $280. Internet's $60. We both have vehicles. Those are about $800. Insurance on those vehicles is about $400. On food, $400 to $500 a month, but that's We budget down to the dollar. And sometimes it's very disheartening to work all lucky, you have a great job. And you're like, Hmm, I don't know about that. There are several reasons why the middle class is The first reason is stagnated income. Between 1970 and 2018, the middle class share of U.S. In comparison, the share of aggregate income 19%. Another study by the Brookings Institute half as fast compared to both the bottom 20% and taxes and transfers were taken into account. If a stay at a company for a while, my income You know, it increases by a couple thousand. I generally have to job hop to have increases in security. Middle class workers over the last 40 years have productivity growth, the expansion of the pie, in We've measured this and found that the typical growth of productivity. What that means is that the middle class worker year in compensation growth over the last 40 erosion of labor share of overall income and 10%, particularly the top 1%, and even more so from the growth of the economy. While incomes stagnate, the cost of living has To put it into perspective, the average household saw just a 16% increase over the last 50 years. In comparison, housing costs increased by 190% 264% in the same time period. I first moved in over here in these apartments I My income, my rent was like $1100. It's now $1700. That's $600 increase happened. I did not have a $600 increase, like my income Rising expenditures, rising prices, in health, put a tremendous amount of pressure on households far as it used to. The situation is even worse in cities where the An analysis in 2018 found that raising a family cities like San Francisco or New York needs an For reference, just 10% of all households made I'd recently saw an apartment next to the be great to walk across the street to work. And it was like $2,400 for an efficiency. And I'm like, That's insane. And then it's like for what I have, they call a I'm like, Well, absolutely not. Like I'm going to pay $5,500 and I don't own it, It's just getting worse. And everyone is like, I the suburbs and then people from out of state can and have fun and be close to the restaurants. And, you know, I have to live out here and, you I'm from Dallas. I grew up there. That's where I want to be. But how it is now, you Policy making might be both the fault and the There is no help whatsoever. There is no policy in place to assist people, and you're working, they're just like, Oh, that's all You got it. You know, go forth and have at it. The stagnation of wages and paychecks for people growing more slowly, but really accelerated after inequality, when the top 1% took off, when the And that has to do with issues of deregulation, the failure to raise the minimum wage, put the kibosh on blue collar job opportunities The point is that it's not that the economy got It was that there were policy decisions made so the vast majority. The country wasn't built by Wall Street bankers, It was built by you. It was built by the great American middle class. In response, the Biden administration came into middle class. The $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill Better Act both include provisions aimed at But as Congress continues to find itself in Only time will tell whether these bills would income households. I don't see any change effects. My friends that were struggling are still I'm still budgeting down to every dollar trying So I just feel like if the changes are happening, see the effects of it. I think that overall, the team with the Biden At the same time, they're up against really We're talking about a global pandemic that We're talking about historic levels of inflation sorts of supply chain gaps worldwide. So I think that both things are true. They've done a good job, but they also have a lot The fate of the middle class could determine the I just think we do need to be concerned because American experiment working for them. And there are expectations that there should be But I think we do have an increasingly precarious And so it's important to note that this is also a It's a shame that we have as much or more poverty class is earning somewhat higher wages, but not productivity over that time. And what this does is it adds to division. It hurts our democracy. It hurts the upward mobility of the children of That whole middle class of people is like One emergency, one catastrophe. And you can see, even COVID showed you how off and have nothing. That should have been a wake up call that we need In June 2020, American workers made an average of In 1972, the same workers earned an average of A chart like this might make it seem like America But when adjusted for inflation, wages have years, with workers today earning just $0.12 more When the average American is not seeing his or her decades, that's something that should concern us With inflation at its highest since 1981, growth. Two thirds of American workers said that the past year. Now, because of the inflation, I can't even make So I had to pick extra hours with my elderly care But some economists argue that the concept is their careers. Politicians win elections by promising to fix people's lives. And so I think there is a bit of a political stagnation debate and promises to fix the So just how real is wage stagnation in America And what does it mean for American workers? Wages in America have stagnated since the early workers' productivity and wage began to Between 1979 and 2020, workers wages grew by over three times as fast at 61.8%. It's not true that wages haven't grown at all. They have, but they haven't grown as quickly as Since the eighties, the economy has changed a We've gone really from an industrial era to a When you have these big changes to the economy, really has an impact on everyone's lifestyle and Wage stagnation is worse for lower and middle The bottom 90% of American workers saw their 2020, while wages for the top 1% increased by Meanwhile, the top 0.1% saw an astonishing growth Real wages, which means after adjusting for 1970s. We know that, on the other hand, this period. I've been working about since the nineties when I That's about 30 years on and off. And there was very little raise for domestic Now, after 2020, with the inflation, I feel like the same. People lost some of the jobs, like in my struggle to find different or secondary jobs or to maintain the monthly expenses of our daily It's very hard. Despite causing severe disruption to the U.S. labor market, the COVID pandemic has led to COVID has actually seen a significant acceleration for for low wage earners. This reflects a really serious tightness in the U.S. demand, whether it's through the Federal also restrictions on labor supply, immigration illness or deaths. So that has driven substantial wage gains. It's hard to tell whether that's the new reality, Did it change our life forever and maybe for the We have to wait and see. Automation is one explanation for wage stagnation The McKinsey Global Institute predicts that 45.3 advancements in technology by 2030. Automation has been a really big factor so far in So before you build a car, you use machines. But there was a lot of sort of hands on work with Now much more of that is done with machines and machines, which means that a lot of the routine Over the next two or three decades, a lot of of disruption in the labor market because of new Even college-educated workers, that financial medical diagnoses, will be done by machines with So a lot more of us might be facing that Globalization is another reason for wage against unfair competition. In a lot of countries, workers are paid a lot So now, particularly if you don't have a lot of market. And that means that a lot of sort of is going to go overseas. But that isn't all bad news for Americans. It's important to remember that meant goods got a It's one of the reasons we've had such low benefitted from that. But that said, I think saw the economy growing and people doing better, And we still don't really have good solutions to Economists suggest that labor dynamism also played American workers today are changing jobs less leads to strong take home pay growth. While some Americans don't switch their jobs out there is nowhere else to go. In many local markets, companies use the lack of The notion of monopsony power is that you have a Let's say that you live in a particular city or a employer. And given that there is only one that's lower than what you would otherwise expect This was a fully competitive market. 60% of U.S. labor markets are considered highly concentrated, workers. Just 10% more workers in an area can I've asked a couple families over the years, that raise and they just declined. They said they'll find somebody cheaper and we In case after case, you see that government dynamism and to discourage workers from moving to to improve their job prospects. And this inevitably will weigh on wage growth Companies can also play a direct role in stifling agreements. Roughly half of private sector U.S. businesses that responded to the EPI survey said non-compete agreements, meaning some 36 to 60 subject to non-compete agreements. The non-compete clause would lead you to stay with consequences would be that it would be more And if you are less likely to leave the job, employer, which means that the likelihood that earning is much higher. The rationale for it at the very high end of the don't see much of a reason to have it for rank Meanwhile, unions that originally fought for power over the years. Union membership in the U.S. fell from 20% of American workers in 1983 to just Workers in unions typically earn higher wages, workers, thanks to methods such as collective It's in those industries where unionization stayed monopsony, of the employer on wages was muted, so employees even when they were dealing with large So wages were less stagnant or didn't decline as But some suggest that wage stagnation is an issue The issue we have in the wage stagnation debate is certain inflation metric, the consumer price inflation over time. So if you look at two periods, you see that those more than they actually have. That means it makes it seem like your wage is. You're actually able to buy a lot more with can. So that's why most researchers, including measure of inflation. The personal consumption expenditures, or PCE. The PCE shows a much more moderate inflation over When you apply PCE to nominal wage growth, you growth for middle income workers. In other words, no wage stagnation at all. And in fact, a pretty nice gain over the last 30 Focusing on broad national data over individual They see the percentage of low wage professions or decline. What they don't do, is they don't and what their wages have done over time. So, for example, you can have someone who is a substantial increases in wages and earnings over That would be lost if you just look at janitors I think it is technically a myth, and I think it than they were in the seventies. It's just patently absurd. I think everything about our lifestyle and our wages are technically higher. But I think there is something to the fact that most people. So people don't feel like they're And I think that that is a problem that's leading Legislation could help solve some of the biggest There is a limited amount that we can do through When you have big changes in technology, But policy can matter a lot. For instance, things like those non-competes. I think that's adding to wage stagnation. And you know, you shouldn't have such We could pass legislation to make it easier for There is a bill called the PRO Act, Protect our Representatives has already passed. It's dead in the water in the Senate. I think we also really need to embrace more of the to sort of pretend doesn't exist and making it But is it if we sort of allow those platforms to become better quality jobs that are more dynamic just the downsides. The rise of remote work could also be beneficial I mean, employers are very happy to have their In a way, if you can work remotely, at least, you are diminishing the monopsony power of an Because if you are a talented person, even if you large employers, you can work for a global firm or the U.S. and work remotely and earn a higher wage. Achieving a fair wage for all Americans is vital There's a basic, not just a basic sense of There is something historically we have called It attracts immigrants to our shores. It motivates all kinds of people to innovate and And wages really, in some ways, are a reflection workers. So if wages are stagnating for a whole becoming as productive a country as we can be. That means the whole economy is not working as $16.15 trillion. That is how much debt American households owed by A staggering 41.79% increase from $11.39 trillion The consumers that have a whole lot of debt really They're struggling to meet rent or mortgage loans for a car. They're struggling because they've got enormous 60% of American adults surveyed cited their level anxiety. Debt is rising every single day, and it is For me, even with a master's degree and having I've had to have at least three jobs in order to But with inflation at its 40 year high, debt in 43% of Americans are expected to add even more Debt is financing asset purchases such as a home, And when the price of these goods goes up, then And it's that juggling effect, right. Do I pay off this debt or do I go get groceries live. So why are so many Americans in debt today and economy? The COVID pandemic gave many Americans a finances. The total personal savings rate since 7.25% between the Great Recession and February Americans also paid off a record $83 billion in To help people weather this historic crisis, all They offered forbearance on mortgages, on student When one set of my student loan payments were So even with that $300 that was paused, be able to allow for me to pay off my old car. That was enough for me to be able to save a deposit down for this beautiful place that I So all this support led to actually a very of the serious delinquency rate on student loans, different debt types. But concerns over household debt are rising again. Government did a whole lot of things to help COVID. Now, unfortunately, those are all gone. Interest rates are starting to rise again. Federal Reserve has already increased interest They've said they're going to increase interest I will tell you how much debt I do owe. Student debt from getting my bachelor's as well as And then I also have debt that I just started Purchasing a car, that was unexpected. I have debt there, about $10,000 worth of that. And then obviously my mortgage. I owe a little under $200k on my condo. Most of the debt held by Americans is related to balance. Nearly half of all Americans today say significant problem. We've seen phenomenal house price growth during supply-side constraints. Not enough homes to go around. We also went through a decade where you had to qualify for a mortgage. That means that people whose credit scores were for lending dollars that were not easily available either. So prices just climbed and Meanwhile, student and auto loans comprise most of 33.7% of the total balance. College tuition for public four year institutions 2020, with an average increase of 9% each year. With college education going up and up and up and few thousand dollars, right, for your tuition and and a few tens of thousands of dollars. You get a law degree. You get a doctor's degree. You get an MBA. You get a PhD. Now, the debt levels are even larger. When it comes to just living and actually It's hard for me to say that it was worth it money and actually being able to pay off student On August 24th, President Biden announced the for borrowers making under $125,000 annually. Student debt has received a lot of attention plus days past due, has risen to the highest of Equifax. So it surpassed credit card debt in the A close majority of people paying student loans so they're not actually chipping away at that And it means that the amount just builds up and That drives a lot of increases. For new vehicles, the monthly payment for auto August 2022. Median car loan term got a lot longer over the The idea of a five year term is not really the Six year often is what a lender will offer. And that means that people are paying more in And those balances are just higher. Right now, I owe under $10,000 for just my car truly does weigh on me. It feels very challenging just on the day to day principal and pay off my car quicker or I can, I put that money into savings. While inflation pushes up the price of goods and aren't keeping up with inflation. The average real hourly earnings for all while inflation increased by 8.5% during the same I wouldn't want to say that wages are not that Americans are experiencing, it's not rising Wages start to flatline and people go, Well, I All of a sudden it's I can't get it out of my Well, let's put a little bit of money on a credit bit more car debt and we'll just pay it off over Even just at my age, I want to be able to embrace And it's constantly in the back of my head of, embrace and enjoy the things that my beautiful No person should have to have that go through It's not fair. For the American economy. Household debt acts as a double-edged sword. On one hand, it boosts consumer spending, which GDP. In order for the economy to keep growing, If stuff doesn't get bought, what's going to Businesses will see their inventories pile up. They're going to cut back production. They're going to lay off workers. There's also good debt that can help build an loans, mortgages or business loans. I think that some amount of consumer debt is a It makes sense in a lot of situations for people for things like higher education. But household debt that's out of control is Historically, rising household debt has been The fact that households are going into debt in ratio of their debt to their income is going up able to repay that debt. And if they can't repay that debt, sometimes they because nobody will lend them more money. And that's when economies go into recessions. And if the debt to income level gets too great, problems for the economy can be enormous. Living with debt doesn't impact folks equally. We know that the lower income folks also have discrimination and historical discrimination that access to financial products in the first place. The ratio measuring people's debt to their of the borrower. The ratio is 115.5% for blacks, 98% for other races, compared to just 49.3% for The lower end of the income spectrum, the lower borrowers have a very hard time accessing loan. And the credit that they do have available Some of it can be alternative financial services, And these types of credit, though they serve the they can be quite expensive. In a lot of cases, the real problems are the mobile, the families who were middle class, who expectations that they would remain middle class You lose your job, but you've still got your loans. Those become almost impossible to finance. And it's almost impossible for you to keep your Despite its record breaking amount, there's no debt in America. We shouldn't be panicked about the level of We should keep an eye on it. We should be concerned about it. And I think it's particularly important for to pay attention to who and where we start seeing Based on what I'm seeing at the Federal Reserve that there are no major warning signs of we saw during the housing crash and the Policy plays a vital role in keeping household Experts say outdated procedures such as wage withheld for the payment of a debt, are in dire A survey found that about 7% of workers in For folks who have high debt loads, they're at really high rates. Currently, at the federal level, only $217.50 is paycheck. And that bill hasn't been updated since And so what we're proposing is to protect at that they have enough in their weekly paycheck to managing their debts responsibly. Bringing back the child tax credit program could Child tax credits were expanded under the COVID pandemic. A survey found that more than 77.8% of child tax household debt. And that had a huge impact on household finances. If you're behind a couple of hundred dollars government is giving you a couple of hundred whole again. You can pay all your bills for a couple of months months, you can maybe even reduce some of your The government can also play a potential role in debt that are owed by roughly 23 million Medical debt is one in particular where the governments, have potential roles to play in individual level struggling with that. There's been a lag in the south eastern states of Right? And so we know that medical debt is going But if there's a way to expand Medicaid so that medical expenses, that's going to be a way to Advocates say whether the U.S. can keep the household debt in check depends on We really need interventions to help Americans be able to spend responsibly, save responsibly, buying a home or building their wealth and being Americans seem more stressed about money than ever 87% of Americans said that inflation and the their stress. And that's one of the highest in America survey. Four in ten Americans say that money affects them Money is a universal stressor, regardless of your Poor mental health not only takes a toll on a the economy. Workers experiencing even one poor billion less in total income each year in the Money touches every part of our lives, and it's I felt hopeless. I was feeling that depression and It's affecting some Americans more than others. Statistics say that 75% of Latinos are stressed One of the biggest anxieties that we face is how So why is money so stressful in the United States? And what can Americans do to alleviate the With the cost of living skyrocketing, many daily basis. Something that comes up time and time again when essentially, it is the expenses that surprise them So trying to pay for everyday items, not having Those three issues are at the top of their list Tawnya Schultz and Lea Landaverde became money struggles. I was in debt off and on all of my twenties and I had about $20,000 in debt. Even someone who has a masters degree in finance I was still figuring out how to adult as well as which for sure led to overspending, you know, I was in this debt cycle of trying to get out of And I was just tired of feeling like I could going to have debt. More than 80% of Americans ages 18 to 43 said Certain individuals are struggling more when it Between men and women, there were differences in We had more women tell us that it was negatively that it affects their mental health more often. I felt like I was at a low point because for my should be in life, I felt like behind. I didn't have any savings. I was living paycheck to paycheck. In a lot of ways, money is a safety net or a vulnerable and anxious about the future. Latino and black adults were more likely to say frequently than white and Asian respondents. Especially coming from my experience as a first financial system. That's why I even myself parents faced, so then I could learn and help providing them education about finances that are Many Americans don't feel hopeful about their going to take a miracle to be ready for I think the problem in recent years has been that the risk of being responsible for things has been What can you put on that list? The cost of obtaining a college education. Previously in the public realm borne by taxpayers. We know where that's been going. The burden of saving for retirement was often provided pension benefits. That was shifted to individuals with the changes Health care has become increasingly expensive. That's responsible for one fifth of the American burden. Americans say they're feeling pressure to cut back More than 50% of adults say they've already cut their spending more if inflation continues to More than 75% of adults said they're worried financial choices. Even higher income Americans making at least considering cutting back on spending. People need to have a sense of hope. And so when the economy is working for them, will have hope that they can accomplish their Americans are making a connection between their 42% of U.S. adults say that money negatively impacts their their finances daily. Many Americans tell us that some of their sources their bank accounts or making purchases or Thinking about money or your finances. It can feel unavoidable with the approaching all these things are really stressful and can Sometimes dealing with stress can worsen someone's An April 2020 Credit Karma survey found that 35% made them impulse buy. I was sad, so I would shop and that led to me And I had to figure out how the heck I was going Things are getting way more expensive and we want And so in order to provide some sort of shopping. I started drinking more and I feel like So, like, you start doing those coping mechanisms life somehow. And so it was leading me down a know. I felt stuck. I felt trapped. Mental health issues can have serious consequences There is clear evidence that mental illness We typically see stress manifest in two ways. One are physical symptoms, so things like teeth tension. The second is emotional responses. So that can look like anxiety and stress, patterns. And so when those come together and negative, physical and emotional consequences. Many people struggle with the shame of their that's carried alone in silence. And in turn people go to great lengths to hide entrenches them in their isolation. And that isolation and burden can become so great likely to experience suicidal thoughts and even their problems. While there are many forces at play that are cost of living, there are steps Americans can financially secure. Experts say the first step is examining your I was constantly looking for like, how can I find Because you can have fear and scarcity, and inflation. We're bombarded by it every day. I'm like, There's not enough money. There's not enough money. So it keeps us in a I faced financial anxieties myself and I had all or not even get into debt. But yet, because of my mental health, because of want to take ownership of my finances, I had to There are experts such as therapists or money feelings as well as make a financial plan. A money coach essentially is a partner in crime you hold yourself accountable and provides you actionable steps forward to reaching your I think the biggest reason there is shame tied to tied to what we have in a tangible way. So people tend to relate their job or these account, with their worth as a person, which is issues and especially seek out help for them. It's also important to monitor your physical What is happening to us mentally, it affects us If you're not treating your depression and anxiety managing blood pressure and diabetes and other I always kind of go back to the basics, which is getting enough sleep, that you're staying active, The concept in mental health recovery is that a We need to see that there's a path to recovery get better. And they usually do.