The phrase &quot;Live fast, die young, and leave many rock stars. From overdoses to suicide to horrible accidents, On the morning of February 3, 1959, early and J.P. Richardson, known as &quot;The Big Bopper,&quot; through the Midwest. The event became known as &quot;The Day the Music young and popular musicians in the early history The crash also had a large impact on one of Eddie Cochran was a part of the first wave musicians who passed. His songs &quot;Summertime Blues&quot; and &quot;Twenty Flight very popular among his teenage fan base. His appearance in films such as The Girl Can't grow. But according to John Collis' biography, Gene of Holly, Valens, and Richardson, Cochran it was around the corner. While touring in the United Kingdom in 1960 premonition came true. Following a performance on Saturday, April in a single-car accident. Cochran died the next day, Easter Sunday, He was the only one killed in the crash. Third time's the charm, they say. Released in 1971, the Allman Brothers Band's to superstardom after their first two albums The live album is hailed as a masterpiece &quot;500 Greatest Albums of All Time.&quot; The band's strength and leader was their guitarist, Allman had spent the mid- to late 1960s as artists such as Aretha Franklin, Wilson Pickett, Billy Gibbons of ZZ Top said this of Allman's &quot;Duane began doing things no one had ever musician who was gone way too soon.&quot; On October 29, 1971, Allman was driving his hit a stopped truck. His bike jumped in the air and landed on him, Though still conscious when he was taken to The band continued without their leader, but On November 11, 1972, bassist Berry Oakley and died from cerebral swelling. The accident took place a few blocks from Both men were 24 and are buried next to each reports. &quot;Mama&quot; Cass Elliot's weight has followed her As a part of the folk-pop group the Mamas However, John Phillips initially didn't want a fact that came to light in Elliot's biography, After the Mamas and the Papas ended, Elliot and television. On July 29, 1974, she passed away from a heart Even in death, Elliot's weight was still the spread that she died choking on a ham sandwich. Many publications, such as Time, ran with According to The Guardian, Elliot's daughter, death, angrily called the rumor, quote, &quot;one At the time of her death, Cass was staying he loaned to her for her shows in England. The flat would become infamous for another No rock musician lived life to the fullest His chaotic drumming made him a legend, placing 100 Greatest Drummers, and was the driving the era, The Who. Bandmate Roger Daltrey told GQ that Moon, Moon helped create many of the stereotypes smashing hotel rooms and his own instrument, and drug use that usually landed him in trouble. &quot;So when people say Keith, have you ever smashed swoop!&quot; On January 4, 1970, Moon and his entourage harassing him. While trying to escape, Moon took the wheel killing him. The judge cleared Moon of the three charges without a license, and driving without insurance, However, his friend Larry Smith recounted had an effect on the drummer that he never Smith said that Moon was &quot;shell-shocked.&quot; Moon's demise came eight years later on September He was pronounced dead at the age of 32 from He died at the same age and in the same room It is understandable to forget about a band's likes of Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, and Jimmy That's what has happened to Keith Relf of When American blues music hit England in the Rolling Stones, who were named after a popular and the Yardbirds formed with the desire to For Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 100 Aerosmith described the difference between Stones, Mick Jagger: &quot;He was a white boy who pushed it to the max. And he was a great harmonica player. You never heard Jagger hanging out on a single After the Yardbirds fell apart in 1968, Relf while his more well-known bandmates achieved the 1970s. According to Ultimate Classic Rock, on May in his basement, Relf accidentally electrocuted He was 33 years old. When Paul Butterfield was only a teenager, with blues legend Muddy Waters in Chicago. The Paul Butterfield Blues Band helped popularize genre, to a white audience. Living in Chicago, Butterfield was at the Waters, Willie Dixon, and Little Walter lived The rhythm section for his band, Sam Lay and Howlin' Wolf. Butterfield's aggressive blues harmonica playing to call him, quote, &quot;the finest blues harmonica &quot;If he was green, it wouldn't make any difference. If he was a planaria, a tuna fish sandwich, Amid the backdrop of the early and mid-1960s, band and often get into confrontations with Paul Feiten in the Horn From the Heart documentary. Butterfield was a living legend during his Author and journalist Greil Marcus said that The Band and Blood, Sweat, and Tears act, By the mid-1980s, Butterfield had reportedly a financial strain on him, and he'd been hurt like Bloomfield, Waters, and his manager Albert On May 4, 1987, Butterfield died of a drug From Oasis' Liam and Noel Gallagher to the 5's Michael and Jermaine Jackson, sibling &quot;Yes, there's always rivalry, especially between helps music.&quot; However, few were as tumultuous and tragic their two guitarists, John and Tom Fogerty. Despite being the younger sibling, John became the singing and songwriting duties previously Tom did not enjoy losing control of his band it to superstardom in the late 1960s. After the 1970 album Pendulum, Tom left the Two years later, CCR dissolved from more internal members. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, court documents of contemptuous legal fights with the head In these fights, Tom was firmly in Zaentz's John described Tom as having, quote, &quot;some During the 1980s, Tom was sadly infected with Even with death coming around, the brothers Tom died of tuberculosis on September 6, 1990, Most people first heard Stevie Ray Vaughan's Dance.&quot; Bowie described his reaction to first hearing &quot;This little kid from Austin, Texas, just and blues I've heard in years.&quot; BB King described Vaughan's guitar playing and said: &quot;He could get something going...and it would Vaughan was a music legend to other legends. Throughout the 1980s, he released four studio His guitar abilities placed him No. 12 on and Vaughan is credited for helping to re-popularize Unfortunately, during the early morning of end. According to Guitar World, Double Trouble Guy, Robert Cray, and Stevie's older brother Stevie Ray then boarded a helicopter to fly four passengers as well as the pilot. He was 35 years old. One month later, Vaughan's last album of original duet album with his brother. Though mostly known in the United States for as one of the finest artists of her generation The BBC reported that U2 frontman Bono called Johnny Marr of the Smiths said she had, quote, of the Beach Boys.&quot; Her duet with the Pogues, &quot;Fairytale of New classic. Jem Finer, songwriter and banjoist of the whether MacColl could handle her side of the a fan of her of music and said: &quot;She could make a song her own and she made On December 18, 2000, the 41-year-old singer Mexico, when a speedboat illegally entered She moved one of her sons out of the way of Kirsty's mother Jean MacColl launched a one the Mexican government hadn't been forthcoming The boat was owned by businessman Carlos Gonzalez Deckhand Jose Cen Yam was found guilty of biography, written by her mother, Yam's wife the driver. December 8 is a somber day in music history. The night of December 8, 1980, former Beatles in the back by a crazed former fan, Mark David apartment building. Twenty-four years later, another legendary day. While performing with his new band Damageplan, was shot during his band's set. He was 38. In 1981, Darrell helped form the heavy metal drive the band to success until they split Pantera reshaped the metal genre over their Pantera's drummer, Darrell's older brother interview with Rolling Stone in 1992: &quot;We pulled the very best out of each one of that mountain got taller and taller to climb.&quot; The gunman, Nathan Gale, also took the lives A. Halk, fan Nathan Bray, and Damageplan crew Gale was killed by Columbus police officers Rolling Stone reports that another fan saw show and asked him if he wanted to come inside He responded that he was, quote, &quot;gonna wait In the documentary Once Were Brothers: Robbie said of The Band, &quot;If there were any American musicians that it would have been them.&quot; The Band featured (among others) drummer Levon vocalist and multi-instrumentalist Richard and the ability to sing in falsetto. Despite his immense talent, though, Manuel and drug addiction. In 1977, the group split up but reformed six Robbie Robertson. On the early morning of March 4, 1986, following his own life; he was 42 years old. If you or anyone you know is having suicidal Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK