(pensive music) The desert is a natural extension of the inner silence of the body. It is a calm but at the same time, raw and unforgiving place. Rub' al Khali means And it is one of the least An adventurous motorcycle ride in the south of Oman, to the harshest and most beautiful parts of the Arabian Desert. (tranquil music) (pensive music) What happened in the last episode? We kicked off our ride in Oman and drove from the city Salalah to Ubar, the Atlantis of the sand and the gate to the Rub' al Khali Desert. We managed to find some food and supplies and were now ready to head - Yeah, I don't have too much fuel left and there is supposed to two kilometers from Ubar. I hope that is true because we not only need but we as well need some spare fuel for our desert excursion. (dramatic music) Well-prepared like always, we, of course, didn't to carry spare fuel beforehand but were relying on the truth of the road. The more remote a place, the more likely it is that it that you are looking for because that is how people like the Rub' al Khali Desert. We were able to fill up our bikes and we found a 10-liter canister that would extend the range of each of our motorcycles - Okay, you think it's tight enough? - I think it's good. - Oh, it leaks, it leaks. Let's put it upright, I for the solution, no? That's the second attempt. - I think this time it will work. - Upright now and now (motorbike starting) - Thank you. (motorbike roaring) - Look at the sign. It says carry a GPS, probably no cell phone Travel in groups of more than one vehicle, use a four-wheel drive and carry plenty of and spare tires. Geez, that's when you and now we go. The next fixed point we called Al Hashman, which is 70 kilometers from here and that is the settlement deepest in the Rub' al Khali Desert you can find from here basically. (dramatic music) That's when I still sounded but I have to tell you guys a secret. Most people who do brave They are terrified. At least that is how I felt that would lead deeper into the desert, especially when realizing was not that great. (dramatic music) - So we just lowered the The road very washboard-y I mean it's big but So we lowered the tired pressure because we're scared Fingers crossed. (dramatic music) - This is one of the roads that for sure look much than it is in reality. It's super washboard. The whole bike is vibrating and the gravel is kind of loose. I really hope it improves, at least a bit. I tell you, after 70 kilometers of this, all my intestines will be - Am I losing the canister? - It's falling off. - Oh no. Then let's put it behind me. - Yeah. - If that works, I don't know. But then it can't fall, (dramatic music) - Okay? (dramatic music) The road was indeed so bumpy and bad that the canister and as well all of my luggage and camping gear nearly We tried to fix the canister to my bike in three different ways but in the end, the petrol - I don't know any solution - I have one solution. - Yeah? After 30 kilometers, we had to give up on the canister. We decided to leave it to pick it up on our return and to sacrifice one of to at least carry one 1.5 (dramatic music) - I tell you guys, this is not so much fun to ride in my opinion. Brett from the bike rental said in Oman, and I now know what he means because it's so bumpy. There is fun to ride and nice and challenging bumpy off road and there's this. I'm still hoping that it at one point will get better and we for another 30 kilometers. What a (beep) road. - It's not my favorite kind of road. - No. (lively music) Sometimes I believe that a lot of swearing as well helps a lot. Or do you have any other explanation for the road getting much better after the first 30 kilometers? The loose gravel turned into packed dirt that nearly felt like riding on an asphalt road. - Wow, can you believe this? We are driving 80 to 90 We are doing some distance and there in front of us, you see the first dunes. That's where we are heading to and what we are here for. Al Hashman is an oasis and the last settlement to wind along the dunes of Saudi Arabia. We met a friendly local truck driver who we overtook before and who was very interested with my travel partner, and who assured us that to a place called Burkana that from here was into the desert. - So that's here, Al Hashman, and we might stop there tomorrow to get some more drinks but our road continues here in this direction, direction dunes. - So now we're really in and we go even further to the middle of the desert. I'm very curious, here the big dunes are supposed to start and I think it will be very nice. - So this is really getting dune-y now. How beautiful, and the but not as horrible as the first part. So we are really happy because this here is the - Now we are where the big dunes are. It's absolutely amazing. There is nobody besides of us. Absolutely stunning ride. (dramatic music) Rub' al Khali means and we started to understand why this vast wilderness got this name. Indeed, Rub' al Khali Desert in Oman. But it is the largest and stretches from Oman to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, and covers an area of about more than all of Netherlands, The sand dunes can get And we realized that we now just the road, the dunes and us. And maybe some camels. (dramatic music) (inspirational music) (tranquil music) - Wow, look at this light with the sun going down. We really need to stop now and pitch our tent, otherwise it probably (tranquil music) We just managed to pitch the and here is the good news: in Oman, you are allowed to put up your tent basically everywhere. The desert is the place and of those who are willed to carry a mobile home to the ever-changing But when we were finally ready for dinner, it was pitch black dark. We still tried to enjoy until a scorpio was attracted by our light and scared us so much that we crawled into our tent quickly. I woke up with the rising and the deepest silence besides of the travel (pensive music) - So this is what I learned Elena says that the nomads do this and they put a ring around their tents and it protects them from evil spirits but as well from some little insects of the desert. It might sound like a kind of but our scorpion encounter in that it does work. The scorpio would not crawl You can, by the way, find Elena, who suggested this and many more routes of our Oman adventure as She has traveled the Arabic and spent the whole COVID lockdown in the Middle East, and is one of the bravest (bike roaring) - Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, we rode about from Al Hashman into the desert and we will continue a bit further now. But you can't go too far because there's basically nothing else on this road but a military camp close to the border of Saudi, and you don't want to end up there. (tranquil music) The desert is not a place my I struggle from the heat, get easily dehydrated is hard to understand for my mind. As comfortable I feel in the mountains, as alien I feel in the desert. And still, the desert always calls me because whenever I am in the desert, I think this must be one of the most beautiful (inspirational music) - So we will turn around from here on because we will ride back to Salalah today to continue the trip tomorrow and our friend Elena, who has been riding this road already, told us that if you you at one point will end up at the military checkpoint anyways. So you don't want to ride until there. Just so you get a feeling in the Rub' al Khali Desert, from Ubar, it is 70 from Al Hashman, 70 kilometers 100 kilometers from Burkana 1, so 240 kilometers from Ubar and the last petrol station, there's the army camp that you And yes, you as well have to because it is a one-way road, so calculate wisely how And just in case you wondered for this adventure, this nicely painted road from Elena was the only one, our phones having no connection and the roads not being able to be found on any of the maps we looked at, this was everything we for our navigation. (bike roaring) (dramatic music) And then this happened. I lost my luggage. (tires squealing) - Wow, I think that's my luggage. Crazy. Hey, luggage. I think I just lost it. I have never, ever had a luggage system where I lost my luggage with. - So that's funny, I lost my luggage. I'm lucky that I realized it because we're already on the way back and the luggage system the bike comes with is probably not as great as I thought. After first losing the canister and now this, I will really of the luggage and put my extra rock Anyways, we are now on our soaking in the stunning (upbeat music) Unlike the normal rule that the way back feels always shorter than the first time driving the way, this time it felt much Maybe as well because we in front of our eyes and because the dunes and the vast desert didn't have many points After what felt like forever, we arrived back at the and started on our ride back to Ubar. (upbeat music) - You know what? This time the road doesn't feel so bad because I think we know of 70 kilometers and But we have to keep our eyes open to find our canister again that we left here yesterday. I hope nobody took it. - So what we did yesterday is because it was very hard so we left it in the distance where we knew that we would make it. And now we're picking it up. And now we're filling the bikes and I will show you how. (lively music) - So this trick I learned from my friend Chenya on my world trip, my Russian friend. You can do like this. (knife cutting) And then you have this as a fantastic.. how do you call this? - No clue. Tratte. (Lea chuckling) - So that works very well. Okay. - And then you bring that to the gas station, the yellow one. - Exactly. - No trash in the desert. - Exactly. - Look, now the travel partner is as well the canister carrier. - Guys, do you see what I see? Yes, there is asphalt again. (Lea sighing) I'm sad and happy at the same time. I wish we could have stayed in the desert but it's as well somehow a relief to be back to a place where - Finished? - Finished. And then right after coming all dirty, sandy and sweaty, we experienced the from a complete stranger. - It's so nice, the locals here. At the petrol station, a (lively music) - So guys, that is the end We are back in Ubar at the Lost City and We will stop at our favorite restaurant to have the best egg I think it's well earned. I hope you enjoyed the and got to feel the special atmosphere of the harsh but oh so of the desert. Leave a comment to share and give this video a thumbs up. The next episode will take us to the mountains of the district Dhofar and to a point of no gravity. Tune in next Thursday to continue the journey (lively music)