"What does research tell us is the last you're going to see before you die? Your children." Interstellar is a precise scientific film... "My connection with Murph, It's the key!" That might sound paradoxical, since our society tends to frame But Christopher Nolan's film argues that to safeguard the future of our species -- we need both hard logic "Love is the one thing that transcends dimensions Maybe we should trust that, After failing to find a new home Cooper seems doomed to die in a black hole Cooper seems to be behind the wall He reaches out to her "I'm gonna find a way to tell Murph, "How, Cooper?" "Love, TARS, love" This love between a father and daughter is -- and it's also the key to understanding So let's take a look at the movie's ending meant. Before we go on, about this video's sponsor -- Skillshare is a superb online with thousands of classes Photography, illustration, Click the link to get 2 months access The earth has been devastated Humanity is an endangered species. &quot;We didn't run out of We ran out of food.&quot; A mysterious wormhole appears, to travel far beyond the solar system &quot;One system with three potential worlds? No long shot.&quot; As they head toward the third only Cooper, Amelia Brand and the robot TARS Cooper decides TARS must detach &quot;We have to shed the weight Once TARS is sucked into there the robot can collect the quantum data in order to lift the remaining people "It's our only chance If I can find a way to transmit they might still make it." Early in the film we hear has been trying to figure out "Suddenly we knew So I started working on a theory "But you haven't solved it yet." Cooper also detaches his lander to increase Brand's odds "Newton's third law. You got to leave something behind." He hurtles into a black hole that looks like Murph's bedroom. This strange, M.C. Escher-eque reality is a construct that gives him access "They constructed this three-dimensional inside their five-dimensional reality to allow you to understand it." &quot;Yeah, that ain't working.&quot; Here every moment in time exists at once. "All of this is one little girl's bedroom. Every moment. It's infinitely complex" Cooper uses Murph's books Earlier in the film, we saw comes from a ghost. "I figured out the message. One word. Know what it is? 'Stay.'" In fact, it's Cooper's desperate attempt since at this moment he has every reason only to end up stranded in space. &quot;Don't let me leave, Murph!&quot; But, back on Earth, "You were my ghost." With the help of TARS, "You have worked out that you can exert "Gravity -- to send a message." "Affirmative." He uses dust to communicate which again gives us since we saw him and Murph and visit the base earlier By passing on the coordinates, on track to go on the interstellar mission. Finally he uses the watch he gave Murph "We code the data into to send her the quantum data "Eureka!" Once Cooper has passed on these messages, the tesseract collapses, He wakes up on a space station "Where am I?" "Cooper Station. Currently orbiting Saturn." Murph's mission was successful. When Cooper and his now-elderly daughter reunite, &quot;Go.&quot; In the film's last scene, we see humankind's next home. Interstellar's ending leaves us Like... number one: that TARS refers to &quot;The bulk beings are Cooper theorizes that the tesseract "Cooper, people couldn't build this." "No. No, not yet. But one day. Not you and me. But people. A civilization that's evolved past It replicates for Cooper "You see time here is This recalls something "To them, time may be just To them, the past might be a canyon and the future a mountain But to us it's not." Nobel Prize winning physicist Kip Thorne, has argued that we wouldn't see a bulk being But, we would see and feel a warping of space, Brand thinks she's making contact who are referred to throughout the movie "What is that?" "I think it's them." "Distorting space-time." Later we see this is actually Cooper Cooper isn't a bulk being, but in this moment he gets to experience And this leads us to another question: Number two: If the bulk beings have why do they need Cooper at all? Here's Cooper's own answer: "They have access to infinite time and space, They can't find a specific place in time. They can't communicate. That's why I'm here." Even though this future civilization Cooper's human limitations he can connect to specific moments in time, First-time viewers may think -- how else could he be the "ghost" In fact, Cooper is outside linear time -- he's just able to access This may connect to the movie's Number three: How do since Cooper needs the tesseract but the future humans can't exist Some viewers consider this a plot hole -- but if these bulk beings really then causality, befores and afters bind us. Question four: Is Interstellar "There were occasional moments with Kip we really have to find a way And he would go away and do calculations both the demands of the story Thorne writes in his book, that he had two ground rules quote, "1. Nothing in the film will or our firmly established 2. Speculations (often wild) about will spring from real science, some 'respectable' scientists Of course, a lot of this movie but it's also not impossible. Thorne said that time travel that doesn't rest on proven science, "much less constrained because we don't understand &quot;Time is relative, okay? I-I-It can stretch, it can squeeze, but, it can't run backwards. It just can't.&quot; Many of Nolan's films have who is separated from his loved ones -- "How long would I be gone?" "Hard to know. Years?" "I've got kids, professor." "Get out there and save them." Nolan uses this premise This love endures even when its continued is completely illogical. "We love people who have died. Where's the social utility in that?" "None." In Interstellar, the characters but can't be together &quot;I need to fix this &quot;Then I'll keep it broken But here Nolan is doing something -- he's not just looking at how connections but how all of humanity finds a way. The film pushes us to care in order to broaden our view -- as a link to make us invest "The last people to starve And your daughter's generation Consider Dr. Brand's great lie. He admits that he deceived into going on the Interstellar mission. He never had a plan to save "There was no need for him... There is no way to help us." his only true mission was to restart human civilization &quot;Why keep building those stations?&quot; "He knew how hard it would be to save the species instead of themselves. Or their children." "Bullshit." "You never would've come here Dr. Brand's lie is unethical, is trying to get us to "We must reach far We must think not as individuals All of this might remind us of It's natural to care more than about future people "We can care deeply, but that empathy rarely extends Some -- maybe most -- of us are He's focused on the immediate future: "I knew that if I just pressed that button, In contrast, Dr. Brand's may strike us as a little &quot;That monstrous lie?&quot; &quot;Unforgivable. And he knew that.&quot; instinctively we feel that saving our species it should also involve protecting The movie tells us that, to combat global problems we need more people like Cooper, who integrates Dr. Mann's personal emotion Cooper's deeply felt love guides him to make logical choices &quot;Mankind was born on earth, he makes a personal sacrifice for humanity, to find our species a new home. &quot;Don't.&quot; &quot;Detach.&quot; One clever way that Interstellar trains us through the way it uses the word, "they." "'They'" are beings The characters call the future human civilization "They saved us." "Yeah? Who the hell is 'they'? And just why would they want to help us, huh?" "They" placed the wormhole, to get to the other planets "Someone placed it there." "'They?'" "And whoever they are, And of course, So the "they" here are they're descendants who are helping and looking out &quot;They put potentially habitable worlds While it can be easy to dismiss the movie reminds viewers the offspring of our children's children. "Don't you get it yet, TARS? They're not 'beings.' They're us." Seeing elderly Murph surrounded helps us make this empathy leap -- from loving our own immediate families, to loving all people. Ultimately, what is humankind parents, and children, anyway? Young Murph is haunted by But after all, an ancestor is a ghost: after they leave this world. "I called it a ghost This connection between generations surpassing both logic and time -- it's about continuing to love someone, or they can't see you. "I love you forever. You hear me? I love you forever." Interstellar tells us and that rather than embracing we should let the head Near the beginning of the film, "We learned these coordinates from an anomaly." "What sort of anomaly? "I hesitate to term it supernatural, We also hear: "It's not a ghost, These anomalies do come from gravity, so far beyond our imagination In many ways, the supernatural, are what drive scientific study. &quot;Love isn't something we invented, it's... It has to mean something.&quot; One of the most logical decisions Brand doesn't want to leave the ocean planet "We're not leaving without her data." and her stalling costs &quot;What's this gonna cost us, Brand?&quot; &quot;A lot. Decades.&quot; On the other hand, for traveling to the planet &quot;I'm drawn across the universe who I know is probably dead.&quot; But this emotional instinct proves correct Edmunds did find the only habitable world. &quot;And that makes me want to follow my heart.&quot; At the movie's climax, science brings but love enables him to reach Murph. And Cooper's plan of depends on his faith that she will come back "How do you know?" "Because I gave it to her." Like her dad, Murph believes "But I knew you'd come back." "How?" "Because my dad promised me." These two are driven equally and this reflects Nolan's larger views "It sort of feels to me like there ought to be an element it shouldn't just be hard math." Space movies often confront themes -- but Interstellar is because it leaves us It encourages us to be curious "We used to look up in the sky and to broaden our view of humanity. This film wants us to know "Love is that fifth dimension. Love is that thing that travels through time, Love is what we humans "Maybe it's some evidence, some... that we can't consciously perceive." And recognizing how small we are doesn't render that love unimportant -- "But they didn't choose me, "For what, Cooper?" "To save the world." This is Roman Muradov. Roman is an illustrator and cartoonist The New Yorker and Penguin. And Roman teaches a class on illustration &quot;This class for anyone who is tired of and who wants to expand and learns some new visual techniques. This is why we love The classes are taught by amazing, in design, photography, social media, In fact, Skillshare has actually helped learn more about They offer 20,000 classes all for less than $10 a month. Right now you can get 2 months' access But that's only if you're one of who click the link It's a great deal -- so hurry up