Transcriber: Riaki Ponist I'm here to talk to you about higher education in particular. But I'm actually going to How many of you here are under 35? OK, that seems pretty 65% of India is under 35. How many of you are under 25? Then you are not representing because half of the Indian population We are an amazingly young country. In fact, if you just take there are 226 million Indians, higher education, going through school This is amazing because it's happening at the time If you look at the average age Of course, don't ask about the gap between the average age and of the Indian cabinet. I think we hold the world record for that. But, that's another TED talk, right? But what you've got at a time when the rest is that by 2020, the average age in China it's going to be Europe, 46, the United States, and India's average age So we are potentially the people who are youthful, productive, ready to work, and transform China played in the last generation In fact, International Labor Organization we'll have 160 million people - 20 to 24 is what they calculate - and China will only have 94 million, So we really are poised to do that. But, and by the way, other countries that's estimated in terms of how many people We, in India, have the people. But do we have the ability to equip to be the workforce See, if we get it right, we educate not just our own economy If we get it wrong, that I'm talking about becomes Because, we've already seen what happens when unemployed, become prey to and prey to the gun and the bullet. So education in our country is it's even a national security issue. We've got equip our people to take advantage This is the story in a nutshell: 4 E's, Expansion with our Why? Because the British - and I wouldn't even ask left us in 1947, with a 16% literacy rate. there were only 400,000 four-lakh students We had 26 universities, So obviously, expansion was essential; we've gone right from that 16% we've gone from 26 universities we've gone from those to 20 million students and we have 35,000 colleges as well, So expansion has taken place. We've also had to fight That is, including the excluded trying to reach out to the unreached, the people who didn't get for reasons they couldn't help: When we had had that 16% literacy rate, do you know what 8.9% at the time of the independence. Just one out of 11 Indian women Caste, region, religion, all sorts We had to bring them in. And that became a big challenge In getting those two things I don't know how well which is the E of Excellence. Obviously, you need quality. And we set about setting up institutions The IITs are a good example, in fact, that IIT in Kharagpur was and it was done on the site the Hijili detention center. So a symbol of political oppression of technology, of looking to the future. But, for the IITs, the IIMs, I'm sure you could all pick these have tended to be floating on the sea of mediocrity. The average Indian higher education that you and I, all of us, And that ties into the fourth E I've added Talk to employers, talk to CEOs, That they're simply not satisfied with the quality Even in the T of TED, engineering graduates, half a million but if you talk to the Federation of they did a survey and 64% with the quality of graduates Some companies are running, like the gigantic campus in Mysore. And it's not on the job training it is, in fact, a full-year's education to make up for the deficiencies of what they've learned Now, that's the scale What are we doing about it? Of course, we are trying to put in the RTE, the Right to Education Act, if kids were out of school it was their parents' fault; today, if there are out of school The government is committed We've got more and more money being pumped in For example, many of you lots of people in India don't. They go to state universities We've come up with a scheme to pump so they actually have with the students they have there. Money isn't the whole answer. There is an entire challenge, like the gender gap - that's a gap, or what an earlier speaker said, that we must, must overcome. Right now, women's literacy is 66%, that, you know, one out of every We have to overcome that. And we need to catch the ones adult literacy; huge challenge. I went off to a village in Tamil Nadu, but I've met women, were learning to read and write. And people think sometimes some of their own family members, The answer is it changes their lives, I spoke to a woman called Chitra Mani, who proudly wrote her name I said: &quot;So, what does being able And she said: &quot;Now I can see where it's going; I don't need to ask somebody I know where I can go. When I get to the big city I can read the street signs, I don't feel helpless anymore.&quot; That kind of empowerment is in a very fundamental and real way. And we're trying to do that of course, in the days before we got to that 74%. Younger kids, we've got them We've something called the percentage of children of the appropriate one But at our primary school now, We've actually enrolled more kids because some of the older ones Bad news is, as you go So by the 8th grade, by the 10th grade, 39%, and by college, our gross enrollment against the global average of 29%. So, clearly, we still need to do more. We haven't managed to get Some of them actually They're not all going to become or officials, or IAS officers, right? We need to try and catch them, But how do you do that in the culture if you wanted to become you'd better have an uncle or father because nobody else is going to teach you. The transmission of knowledge, has always been through the gene pool, the reason why the sons of politicians And with the Bollywood movies stars, So we need to get master craftsmen. Why is it with a country of 1.2 billion of masons, of plumbers, We need to get more we're doing that, we're now rolling out so that kids can go in, lots of vocational training, and at the end of 2 years, if they show they can go back to a university, if not, they leave with a 2-year certificate, in a society that is clamoring So these are the kinds of changes that we're trying to bring about, But there's a change that You know, if you look at the need - you've heard a lot of that, I'm sure research is something which... The government wants to double they are spending on research we haven't had the money but, innovation requires I heard you had a talk about But new ways of thinking means learning to create, I know we're If you Google the word and top 20 hits will all relate to We invented the world's the simplest and cheapest EKG, the world's cheapest small car, but all these've been things that we have stripped down, more relevant to our conditions. We need to do things which we used to do in our culture Remember how the Romans used to write till an Indian thought of the idea of zero in Hindu and Buddhist thinking? That came into the zero &quot;sunya&quot; We need to think like that again; With 17% of the world's brains, of the world's research output Well, perhaps we need to start Get our kids, not just to and textbook materials, Because frankly, that gives you but in the era of the Internet, you've got Google, right? Find everything you want What you need is a well-formed mind. A mind that reacts that can actually synthesize information A mind, in other words, that can react which doesn't actually only give you And for that you need a mind a mind that doesn't just ask I've actually had a little experience I wear glasses, I don't need them to read but if I want to catch there I have to look though glasses. But because I hardly ever wear them, I shove them in the pocket, they crack, I put them on the lap, somebody steps on them, they break. In the first 3 months of this year, So I was telling a friend about this, and he said: &quot;A simple solution, I said: &quot;Look, there is no easy solution because for 150 years, They join together at the center, That's what I've found And he said, &quot;No, no, no, no, no, You can re-imagine glasses in a way or join at the middle,&quot; I'm wearing them right now; I just pull them together, it has two magnets and I can see you all at the back. Now, it's just a silly example perhaps, but it's an example Things, familiar objects can be thought of in ways they haven't been And that way, we can move I have no doubt there is simply no question we have to become literate. But there's one piece of good news. 95% of our 12 year-olds So the future looks good. And as far as the workforce is concerned, if we can get all we can say to the rest Thank you very much. (Applause)