David Westin: I'm David Westin bringing you This week, the world of coffee and what global demand may mean for our daily habit. Plus, making how Zara has done it And creativity from a machine-- what generative AI means for the world of art But we start with a story the sort of overnight popularity when market players because of big calls they make only some of which - In a world of staid Elaine Garzarelli stands out. After a series of made her arguably Wall Street guru, she was fired reportedly for indeed, when the firm way too much so-- and for being Westin: Wall Street analyst became a superstar in the world when she correctly predicted an imminent collapse took her fund to cash just one week later when the Dow Jones Industrial in a single trading session. - No question about it. She called it absolutely Her fund actually went up on Black Monday all these puts as protection. Westin: Bloomberg Senior Editor and Opinion Columnist on the markets and forecasters - Did it work out that well? because the whole point of spectacularly right like that if you get what I mean. There are only so many to get to call a freak event Having done it once, there wasn't going to be Westin: In the decades other investors have made spectacular calls and, yes, often fortune, One investor stole thanks to the gold rush once again showing the benefits in the right place We have some funds, like, for - Yes. Westin: which did extremely well - Yes, and made Cathie Wood, probably the most famous for a couple I think one of the points more and more over the years that if you really want if you really want to make you have to take a big risk. That's basically If you want to be safe, but you're not going to be who has taken a chance In the case of Ark Investment, it very presciently it was heavily into bitcoin, heavily into a number of grew very fast in the exciting conditions So Ark, at one point, during the pandemic year, some such astronomically Westin: In recent years, good news for most investors, of specific fund performance. - It looks like a rocket or trajectory that zoomed up If you stand back and think should treat somebody like who can call the market reliably if you're going to have a return it implies that you're very good which in her case is This is a person whose talents with capturing That doesn't mean that they can guide us Westin: Big contrarian calls because of the attention and because of the money for those who But betting against also comes at a price, certainly when unlike those of Elaine don't come true, but also in trading off drama - The people who do best They have to be, Most of the time, by definition, Otherwise, they wouldn't be And I think that's another fact that if you're really going to you probably do need But generally speaking, The market isn't wildly wrong Being very contrarian Westin: It's not who can gain enormous popularity That popularity can also come to new ways of approaching things like so-called - This was a great idea that got people and has generally now become-- It's a phrase I almost never Westin: The term smart beta by the consulting firm to describe funds that merge the benefits of Smart beta funds don't have but they have rules and factors - Well, beta really just how much a strategy and alpha is the performance relative to that sensitivity Westin: Rob Arnott is the which launched its - The inspiration for it which was our idea back in 2004. Fundamental Index simply says, Why should we weight stocks beloved, Why not weight stocks according to how big they are Now, what that does is Firstly, if a stock at a premium multiple, If it's a value stock priced at it reweights it up. That's not because and these aren't That's because the good news the bad news is so it's harmless to Westin: Because they focus on smart beta funds may have missed for the tech stocks known which have been driving the S&amp;P 500 higher recently. Of the more than 900 about 600 have no exposure to the Magnificent Seven stocks, according to Bloomberg Intelligence. - Rules-based strategies The genuinely smart forms much better than that. It leans heavily towards Well, cheap stocks have been out If you had a growth bias, for the last 15 years Not every year, of course, but over the 15 years by And so anything with a bias will have had that headwind and Westin: While some or financial instruments sometimes what we think of really aren't new at all, - David, in the early '90s, for those of us who are the U.S. had and so there and two very smart lawyers an industrial company that were and that needed to raise additional capital came up with a device Westin: Betsy Cohen is who founded internet banking and now serves as chairman of which she co-founded in 2015 to bring more than ten SPACs - In a way, the SPAC format has really always remained the same needs, and those needs within a particular area. Westin: The number of SPACs with 613 just that year, and dropped to just 31 in 2023. If we go back two years, 2022, it seemed that there were It was really and going public. [Laughter] Westin: It's come down - Yes, sure. - I think there are One--many of the SPACs did not And, secondly, there was if you did close the SPAC, and so that was that had had not been thought of I think that there were enough that a company would come to and then miss its first that it became a much riskier Westin: Whether it's the latest or hot strategy, what draws us to these overnight they make for a good story, one that the financial media and one that - We, as journalists-- when you really do tell it you know, with a beginning And you want to be able Then people will enjoy then people will understand But you might help people We in the media may be part of only to then have to Westin: Today, ETFs have become Right now, they seem to be to just about everything. But how long will - We believe we're just in the ETF revolution, that everything And we need to ensure passive products, are going to be used through Westin: ETFs. Westin: Are they here to stay? - It would appear that they are Now, in many ways, the ETFs You know, they can be much more They can trade and therefore they can be of But certainly, my fear um... there's a line from one of begins with eats on that ultimately, they are-- everybody is just taking of what's, that you're just churning in a different way it's a little like the complaint I was making about smart beta without really adding And I would be worried that we too much of a proliferation that there are going to be or that do become illiquid. Not wanting to be too cynical, where I can't really help it. One of the things that you do that financial marketers are with an innovation taking it too far. My suspicion--indeed, is that that's going to Westin: In a world of growing it's no surprise that new show up regularly, the next bright, shiny object, but it's one thing to it's another to stay with because in the long run, that which varies greatly shall eventually return to it. Coming up, the big business of We talk coffee supply next on &quot;Wall Street Week.&quot; Westin: This is a story about we follow every day even as we start sharing with hundreds of millions of - The best part - This is a damn fine - ...Sunshine and ravioli Macaroni If you want the things - You did it! Congratulations! World's best cup of coffee. - We are taking around every day in coffee. This means around of 60 kilos each week. Westin: Vanusia Nogueira is of the International Coffee more than a half a century ago between countries. She says the trend in is moving in one direction. - Demand is growing around and also in what we call The producing countries that in the past were Now you have many other taking a lot of coffee. And additionally to that, we have now China, taking a lot of coffee together and other countries in Asia. [Music playing, Westin: All these habits being add up to big business. According to the analysis the annual revenue has soared from around to nearly $460 billion today. But as coffee demand continues production In the last two years, as bad weather That helped send prices of surging more than 80% from 146 in September of 2023 to a high - Coffee as an industry in the late 19th century. That's really when we see and the New York Coffee Exchange Westin: Jonathan Morris is dubbed &quot;the coffee historian.&quot; He's the author of and a professor at - Now we have a much more So coffee consumption has a lot of emulation in that rise. So essentially that's what we're And the demand for coffee in Westin: A good part of that from the Starbucks that may have taken off but that has turned - So what's really changed in the last sort of obviously, the growth of, the international coffee shop And I say it's changed it not because it's accounted for a huge proportion of although it's certainly driven but rather because of the amount that's So coffee, as a beverage, across the globe. Westin: It's not just that are spending more of our time increasingly, entire countries quickly developing their own instead of their - So China, as a market alone, in sort of seventh or sixth in And, of course, the growth across particularly has really driven in the last few years. Westin: Steven Sutton's job is while strengthening His New York coffee shops in getting beans to customers It can take large chains to get coffee from farm to cup. Sutton's Devocion sells beans less than a month before To do that, he uses FedEx to straight from Bogota where he roasts around 10,000 Within days, they're in cafes, and high-end restaurants - We actually opened doors in to do something different for the farmers, and finding that were lost at that time because of the internal conflict So we decided very early on that we will concentrate of understanding how to go to how to, let's say, and its so we can get to the farmer, because one thing is fair trade, and one thing Westin: Sutton's direct has been both good practice Better sourcing can mean and that's been a staple - Actually getting the taste and that, until now, is So we averaged, around 15-days-old coffees Westin: So that sounds but it also sounds remarkably What's the difference in the freshly roasted and ground, as opposed to the things that - So there is a difference, I mean, you're probably going to for our coffee. If you take out a lot and a lot of the normal process you'll end up finding that, the money can actually go Westin: Sutton says that making gets their fair share of the pie but another is protecting as the rising impact of takes a toll [indistinct conversation] - The coffee market has been especially given weather-- we had in Brazil. Westin: Carlos Costa is at Hedgepoint Global Markets, and has spent years analyzing whose futures point to in the short-term trade than - Cost of production nowadays it's around 700 reais per bag, and the price is trading So they are making a quite compare cost of production So farmers are making In the supply chain, traders, the margin not, you know--for commodity We're talking about But looking ahead and looking is...the volatility on the high level because have nowadays and also which brings more concern But the main history here consuming more coffee has not been following both because of that affected supplies, but because you also haven't saw in the majority of Westin: Although production climate change means isn't going away and demand For people like Steven Sutton, from start to finish, meeting means investing - We are very active in doing and the farmer to protect our and where we're getting our We go to a local school and we are teaching these kids how to get better economics. We give them tools from not only to help them create but also to help us, as pretty inside of the coffee process, to protect where We like to start building that's more sustainable, not necessarily is what I think it's part of it, but I think it's also and how we teach these farmers not only by having coffee and protecting their If we can do that in then I think in the coffee world. If we can't, then I foresee coffee being a complete luxury. Westin: Coming up, the world of and lessons from the best That's next Westin: This is a story about that defines and that has been seized by so-called &quot;fast fashion.&quot; Our colleagues at have taken a look at one of - These are the inner workings full of contradictions. - It is by far the biggest - Drawing inspiration from you might expect headquarters in one of Europe's but, nope, it's right here in this rural corner of And in an industry married to glossy full-page campaigns the company's ad spend So what's making And as the global confronts new competition can it last? - The retail fashion landscape is undergoing a moment of - Five, six, seven, eight, - Zara is widely considered - That was a label given to them when they opened a Zara store - Fast fashion is the ability to respond to changing and quickly churn out goods - Trendy threads, which usually that it doesn't matter for a couple of lunches squatting on a stove. - Some people would say that H&amp;M but given the size and there's a lot of people who that they are definitely the one - It's for those aspirational who can't afford or even mid-tier brands, to look stylish, look chic, those higher price labels. - Zara is one of several brands the publicly-traded parent the tycoon Amancio Ortega. At the end of September, with brands But make no mistake, - It's the brand that gives to Inditex as a whole. And when you look at the six which is Zara, Oysho, Pull&amp;Bear, and Bershka, Zara represents about 70% of - And the company's approach In the last two decades, has roughly doubled while the global population In short, people are buying wearing them then repeating the process with any of a swelling number with devastating consequences which, don't worry, - One thing that's unique to it is extremely fragmented. Nowhere in the world will you a huge, huge market share. Everyone seems to have very, 1%, 2%, 3%. And so there is space - So what makes Zara different? First, there's its to marketing. - There's no advertising Definitely not - We think marketing is A typical fashion retailer, you'd be looking of somewhere between a low- of sales, so, you know, - Over the years, one thing that is that the name has become and you have high-profile A clear example who sometimes wears Zara. It's interesting given that - And then there's Zara's often-bizarre promotional - They're trying to capture when they try on a coat. It makes them perhaps feel to capture that through their on their website. [Laughs] Um, not yet, but, you know, there's always a first - The biggest difference between is its approach to logistics. - Most sportswear companies in the world have become, over on factories in Asia-- Bangladesh, Pakistan, Vietnam, Zara has also started producing over the years but more than half from what they call proximity. - That would be markets closest so Spain, its home market, and here and here and here. - And what that allows for is much more rapid So we think about 80% of stores can have a shipment - The second part of their is that everything they produce to distribution plants in Spain. - Like this one near Madrid. Every Zara item you've - Those products get repackaged, to stores across the globe based - This adaptability helps a competitive retail landscape, which brings us to stores. Take a look at this chart. While Inditex, along closed some during the pandemic, But look at the other line. This shows its and that has started to rise, are getting bigger. - Part of the reason has been of e-commerce rivals like to essentially try and find to distinguish itself. It's allowing customers to go in try on their clothes, and have with their products rather than like a catalog. - As to what makes it that's the function of product store managers, for a small number of units - And what they are trying to in real time the trends the demand that they're seeing, They're feeding back that to synthesize what they see as That information is then being to the designers - They basically have about start designing a product that product is in a store. This allows them to be very in how they produce It helps them adapt It also helps them adapt to - In 2024, that last part was at least to one of Zara's - The Swedish retailer is at the start of June - If you look at the revenue for you'll see Inditex has regardless of [Thunder] The biggest challenges for Zara are twofold-- the rise of Chinese fast fashion and fast fashion's devastating - What is beyond debate is like Shein and Temu, especially in the U.S., and have changed the bar of Zara now has to keep an eye on because these are the brands and being seen as the go-to especially at the lower end of They have also changed the bar They're not public companies a publicly-traded company in And so they also have towards stakeholders, on their And that, in a way, a company like Zara has. - So fast fashion, an impact on the environment. The raw materials that are used incredibly water-intensive, - Fashion is responsible for 20% of plastics produced each year. In the time it's taken you to look how many items of clothing in the U.S. alone. This equates to 10 billion - Given the sheer volume that is it, undoubtedly, will impact It's also been criticized and a culture of waste, so throwing away your clothes And one of the ways that to push back against by creating all sorts of So Zara, for example, has to reach net zero emissions and it's also introduced But the question is whether to offset the sheer volume on a yearly basis. - That's one of the key who became Inditex's in 2022. She's been central to specifically in its high-end But to prosper and continue her she'll need to evolve her to address intensifying pressure fueled in part by the group's Westin: Zara has been The question is whether And what comes To answer that, we sat down with CEO of Telsey Advisory Group. - Overall, when you think about as compared to others, has been developed through That's what's different about Westin: Telsey says available at low prices serves But when will their tastes and how - I think certainly who wants fashion trend that they're looking towards. But you can't say that it isn't that will mix and match with a pair of Gucci heels or an Yves Saint Laurent-type and that's the change I think the younger generation is mixing and matching all but also marrying that They understand where the goods and they want it made so that and purchase with a purpose. Westin: So what do the changes and apparel in particular, In the world of fast fashion, what will work depends and on their ability to spend. - Discretionary has been Could it be that and keep in mind, at least in order And with the savings rate a discretionary world in We have an environment where consumers will pay for and there will be more because of the personalization from the data that they read. And I think we're seeing wider appeal, whether it's whether it's the Levi's or even whether it's The ability to go old and young, is more compelling for 2025 than it's been in the past. Westin: Up next, is changing the world of The view from AI leaders next on &quot;Wall Street Week.&quot; Westin: This is a story something we normally consider a quintessentially human trait increasingly seem to be - You really think you can just - There's no other choice. - There's always You just don't like What would you have me do... Westin: This video was made Pretty convincing, right? It was generated by Runway, which builds AI tools Cristobal Valenzuela is - You can think of generative AI It's a better version of the Imagine a world where you have that can create imagery It feels like a video game, but you're generating things [Buzzing] Westin: All over the world, - It's frightening on so many who will lose their jobs. Westin: musicians... - The way they are learning the companies developing, Westin: visual artists... - Every single has been affected by this, and in not a good way. Westin: all worry about what could mean and it turns out that they A report from January 2023 that more than 200,000 people could be adversely affected by nearly 1/3 But for those who can use AI, a valuable tool in the industry. - Screenwriters are using There are, sort of, VFX artists And so every part of avenues and spaces where you and improve Westin: Runway is growing fast, to animate and alter already and its adoption in the industry given what generative AI for a company's bottom line. So this is your studio? - Yes, this is our studio. And so today I'm going to show that involves no prompts, And the idea there is that the expression, and apply it to--an animated kind of, like, element. So, Jim, you want to read - Yeah. - [Gasps] [Exhales] - And you're scared. - OK. Disgust. Show disgust. Like, it smells - No, no, no, no. Take it back. - So now what we're going we're going to take that and we're going to map the-- to translate that set he just performed for us into And that happens almost It's a couple thousand dollars of a triple-A movie, or, like, There's a lot of money into just making a few seconds. The approach that I take is, that can aid you in creating in much shorter times And so...rendering might a couple thousand dollars. Rendering, for us, is just like Westin: To take advantage of entertainment companies are their use of generative AI A recent survey showed companies in the next three years on everything from sound design to voice acting and writing, which may be good but isn't - You know what sucks, is, like, and I like the idea, but I would It's so boring. She has absolutely no emotion in Westin: Kelly McKernan is in Nashville, with a distinctive style of illustration and watercolor But two years ago, Kelly started that looked eerily familiar. - Summer 2022 was when I first of Dall-E and Midjourney and a couple of other It was very confusing because I wanted to know At this point, there are more as a prompt than there are So because of this, I saw my income drop by 30%. So after ten years I'm no longer able to make off of my work. For 20 years, I've had artwork was hoovered up by because it's publicly available, They should have properly We should have been and, at the very least, but that didn't happen. Westin: McKernan has joined to sue several generative AI for claims of stemming from the company's use taken from the internet Entertainment IP lawyer believes McKernan and other - If the AI companies want to with the companies that own they absolutely can do that, but that's not And it's kind of the model of Ask for forgiveness, - What I was afraid of where instead of a company or perhaps a small publisher and wanting to commission me they could instead save a lot just going to one and typing in the image they and then saying &quot;In the style of instead of hiring me. And this is exactly what There were well over 10,000 by the end of 2022 that I could publicly search, where my name was used - So there's three ways is going about it, right? There's federal legislation that for artificially-generated name, There's licenses. So SAG-AFTRA with an AI company that very realistic name, image, of its actors, and it entered into a contract to decide if they to be able to replicate and to set their own prices And then you have the litigation that's going Westin: Valenzuela contends that on a fundamental confusion about how his generative AI a confusion indicated by because, he says, generative AI - It's good to remember that They're not trying to replicate Like, the goal for a good model is not to create There's no point in it. So you're not pulling What you're doing is, you You're showing that student and you're learning of how a camera moves, what what a performer looks like, and then you're asking that new versions of what you want, but the things that are creating have never been generated - I'm very skeptical. I could put the history of into a large learning model, and I wouldn't get - Rosebud. Westin: Whatever the legal Jonathan Taplin says generative not to the top of but to the vast majority of who make up the core of people of whom we may never have - It's not necessarily but it's a real threat to the working musician, or a quarter from Spotify. Westin: In the end, generative AI and its effect on likely do not come down or even the financial for individual artists. It's all about creativity holds up the potential or drowning it under we don't need. - We've always seen AI as for a new media format, a new set of creatives The goal is not technology. We don't build models but it's important to understand that technology serves And if you don't emphasize then there's no goal. And so we always want to and our aspect is to create more than anything else. Westin: There's little doubt will make storytelling less labor-intensive, but that means it will also to make thousands of like the color of the sky or the balance between woodwinds creative judgments made by something that's learned Will it be as good or better than what we humans would have Perhaps. Certainly the AI models Westin: the rise and fall of special We take a look at when they work Westin: SPACs were the preferred a couple of years ago. Betsy Cohen of the Cohen Circle and no one knows the advantages, and regulatory challenges - I think that many of within the public markets so that--and if I might add, of the vehicles who knowledgeable, or disciplined. And to some extent, I think that has been a result of significant being brought to the fore. If, in fact, someone-- brother-in-law SPACs. Everyone's brother-in-law can do because it seemed easy. You know...and then you got That's not my approach. So I really am and impose discipline, to see if they will not only because there may be lots et cetera, but will they make Do they have Do they have the reporting? Do they have Do they have good management? Do they have not only a product Westin: Your discipline not everyone is necessarily. One of the things we hear is for investors investing in visibility into the company, that if you go through an IPO, there's an investment bank and does a thorough review, in a book that's given You don't necessarily have that - That's not exactly true, because remember that the SPAC, although it files has to file of the business financials, And so, the SPAC process is not necessarily without So there is, in fact, another Westin: When you go through is there full disclosure of - Today there is very Westin: And is that because of - I think, in part, either you or you're doing it now. So you had your choice. if we look at today's market, Westin: Have the changes, the new SEC regulations on reduced the difference between the so-called regular - In terms of cost? - Not necessarily. I mean, I think if you're brings with it [Chuckles] Westin: Or simply the hurdles the things the process of going forward. - I think the process is and particularly and that may be one that we could discuss, that it was at one time possible were in their growth stage. To take today's--and, in fact, that they chose to into the public markets, that the opportunity to have was, in fact, possible. I think we saw this most and there were market shifts but most clearly with that there were having been produced, The industry had and therefore what I would call ungrounded. That is less true today because of the need to have even if allowed and required, because, remember, that the SPAC is and not simply an entry And merger vehicles require to be able to look at the and see where they're going But there is today about fulsome projections And I think because, in fact, that this will be a point of Westin: If there's been is it a market correction or - I think the two are combined do impact the market, so there's But I think the element of is available, if the performance is not returning, you know, So it's a combination And the market was--you know, had gone through So all of these things combine to make public issuances... And if you look back that you mentioned, the number of what we call Westin: Looking forward, because you understand what role do you expect SPACs to - I think that they will be good entities for companies want to have an opportunity to about their company growth where they are differentiated and other products, and where-- Again, I come back to the fact for looking at, or relooking at, the capital structure Westin: Is this, what we're more or less a reversion Did it go too far in 2022? - Of course. when people were thinking that find a company, and then retire at the And the risks involved in seep through the market. So there...became underwriters Many of the large firms did not with underwriting were, in fact, worth taking. Westin: That does it for us on I'm David Westin. We'll see you again next week for more stories of capitalism.