India's Chandrayaan-3 Moon mission has in the history books for being the 4th nation to and the very first to ever land at its south already made discoveries that could profoundly composition and geological history, and has given missions to our lunar neighbour. And yet, for what Chandrayaan-3 did not discover, but Have you noticed it too? India's Space Research Organisation - made and there was always one thing they claimed the South Pole was picked out over all other is deepening the more we investigate, and yet setting up permanent bases up there. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. explore its successes, and attempt to use its It was India's Chandrayaan-1 mission that helped polar craters might hold water ice. Water on and in 1971 Apollo 14 found some traces of water proved difficult to pin down. Scientists thought craters at the North and South Lunar poles; these direct sunlight, and thus were very cold - some of perfect forming ground for ice. Sadly, images of or simply too dark for us to know for sure, and on the Moon's surface, it was unclear whether However, in 2009, signs of hydration began Moon Minerology Mapper) found the first water ice in dozens of craters congregated later confirmed by Chandrayaan-2, leaving was potentially 600 million metric tons of water Water on the Moon is a big deal. More and more Moon, and being able to source your water to spend huge amounts of resources getting but also could be broken down for hydrogen and or a breathable atmosphere in your Moon base. So, it should come as no surprise that towards the Moon, one of the things the media Chandrayaan-3 was launched on the 14th July 2023. small rover called Pragyan, and an orbiter module gulf of space. On the 23rd of August Vikram, with Moon's surface at the beginning of a lunar day. Chandrayaan-3 was a surprisingly cost-effective will each cost on average $4.1 billion, the entire rupees, or about $75 million - ironically, less to produce. Perhaps Hollywood should consider with this lower budget came technological Vikram and Pragyan would be subjected they were not designed to survive. A lunar day would need to complete its major objectives to the day after that were slim. and Pragyaan the rover powered up and Pragyaan is a 27kg 6 wheeled rover that X-ray Spectrometer (APXS), for analysing the radiation at it and seeing what wavelengths Spectroscopy (LIBS) instrument, that does laser at the target of interest, and analysing resulting plasma. These two tools together would or any other interesting substances, confirming for all. And so, it set to work deploying Within days, the results started coming and Titanium were all found on the Moon's surface, Indian scientists were most excited at the first pole. Sulphur is an exciting element to find, Moon over time, and indicates there used in spite of all these discoveries, there was one the all-important hydrogen was notably absent. Guiding the rover was all done manually through Pragyaan's onboard navigation as the signal delay between Earth and the Moon by a little under 3 seconds - time that might rover was to avoid overturning. And indeed, this the rover had to speedily stop to avoid falling realised was there. I say speedily. Pragyan's move sprinters. Over the course of its two-week life, Fortunately, the crater was detected to turn around and choose another route. you notice that there was a second moment crater it came across - instead electing to are currently available, so we are left Vikram itself did not remain idle during this Moon's surface, digging 10cm deep to measure the the plasma content of the atmosphere - so radio communication to the Moon likely a possible moon-quake which, given the small At the very end of its journey, the Vikram lander even successfully performed itself off the ground - moving 30-40cm Indian scientists had wanted to test how one day propel themselves back into orbit from But none of this helped the By the 4th of September, time was up. Vikram ISRO scientists had hoped to be able to but this hope proved to be fruitless. The two for the last time. ISRO and the scientific and called the mission a success. And indeed it Moon that would be extremely helpful in building with furthering our understanding of the Moon's When I first heard that water ice I envisioned in my mind frozen ice-lakes, or as vapor from the Moon's atmosphere ended freezing over the surface and building Chandrayaan-1 that water ice is Chandrayaan-3 has joined other missions in I remember feeling similarly disappointed when a NASA camera carried on the South Korean Danuri light, it could see into the polar craters that without issue. And yet, once again there Given that Pragyan's analysis of signs of water molecules, where is the While this mystery is confusing, Chandrayaan-3 explorations. It's actually Vikram, When Vikram used its ChaSTE temperature sensor, it was able to take 10 different readings of the and working its way down in 1cm increments. surface was a temperature a little under 60degC if you happened to be on the Moon and somehow as ChaSTE measured deeper and deeper temperature dropped off fast. By 8cm deep, the That's a big drop. From this we see that lunar that also indicates quite clearly that is not resting on the Moon's surface, There's much we don't understand about the evidence that the Moon contains quite a take understanding where that water can be lunar days and nights. Is it affected by solar Although Chandrayaan-3 only lasted 2 weeks - which have liked - it has offered us vital insights is concerned, at the very least, it has given If you want to find a drink of water on the Moon,