Gentlemen, hello. Today there will be a short video on how to properly solder aluminum. How to solder something to aluminum. This is not exactly the topic of my channel, but still this is a rather useful video, because many people collect batteries. And one way or another, they sometimes have to solder something to the aluminum current leads. There are such situations. I will explain where I got the idea to shoot such a video. The fact is that quite recently I made a battery at the request of a customer and there in the specification, in general, it was necessary to do certain actions, which led to the fact that it was necessary to solder something to aluminum and when the customer saw that I soldered some parts to aluminum he was very surprised, we got into a conversation with him and it turned out that he tried to solder something to aluminum many times and his attempts always led to sad consequences. That is, the wires soldered to the aluminum simply did not hold. He tried many methods, used a special flux, used a special solder, in general, what he just did not do - nothing is soldered to aluminum, especially if it is good, pure aluminum, practically without additives, like this jumper, ordinary aluminum AD- 31. It is not soldered. And he told me that on youtube there are practically no videos on this topic, competent in how to solder an ordinary copper wire to aluminum. I quickly scanned youtube, I will not say that these videos are not at all, they are, but they are still a little different. That is, either a special solder is used there, or a special flux is used, or a burner is used. The element heats up to some incredible temperatures. This is not always applicable under certain conditions, so today I will show you how to solder, say, tinned copper wire, to aluminum using a conventional 60 W soldering iron and a conventional POS61 solder. Solder so it will hold tight. I am speaking in all seriousness. After that, it will never come off and fall off if you solder it correctly. To do this, we need only three things: as I said, the most common, but powerful soldering iron, which is able to significantly heat up the part and quickly. Solder And the most common motor oil, there are no secrets here. Here we have a little oil on the bottom . In this case, it is semisynthetics, but it can be mineral water, it can be synthetics, it can even be sunflower oil, do not be surprised. any, absolutely, liquid oil. Drop a drop! I TOLD A DROP !!! oooo, overdone it really needs a bit . And so, I removed the excess and try number 2. You just need to be careful. The tension in the eyes of the audience and ... That's what you need. A drop, 2 drops of oil, that's more than enough. Next, we take ordinary solder, lower the soldering iron directly into this oil, melt the required amount of solder until the oil burns, the smell will of course be unpleasant, but in general, it's not deadly, we wait a little while the part heats up for just a few seconds and, with forward and backward movements, we are trying to tin the place of the future solder I think those who soldered aluminum at least once in their lives know why such movements are required, so you can see there is no I hand not blocking it, but those who have never soldered aluminum may not know this, so the soldering iron is quite powerful, it warms up significantly so that the part is not for you I'll block it with my hand with a screwdriver. What I'm doing now in the video may seem rather complicated to you, but believe me, it's not so. if you do everything competently, not on camera, but quickly, and when your hands are already sharpened for this business, then all this action takes no more than one minute. the part can be cooled periodically, if it overheats, if your soldering iron is very powerful, you can see that the place that I am trying to tin, in principle , the solder has already spread quite well over it, that is, it does not lie with a ball on aluminum, as is usual happens when you try to solder something to it, in principle, I think that's enough, then we take an ordinary wire, in my case it is a copper, tinned wire. but that doesn't matter. I think everyone knows how to tinker wires correctly? no explanation is required here. but all the same I will show, since I do. solder pos-61, you can take a more refractory POS 40, you already see it at your discretion, I use 61 because I often solder boards, so refractory solder is not used, otherwise the board can overheat if I soldered to the jumper all the time - I would of course used 40. the difference, by and large, no good tinkering wire so that we have soldered conscientiously. when soldering, always use a hood, since all this is harmful to health further - no solder is required here. no flux. the wire was tinned and then soldered as usual. As with any other detail. we do all the same, since the aluminum part is quite large in weight - you need to warm it up well in order to solder the wire, because even a powerful 60 watt soldering iron is sometimes not enough to do it quickly right away. you can take a 100 watt more powerful soldering iron if I block some moments with my hands - I apologize, the angle is not very convenient, but otherwise it will not work, I will now show how it all will be soldered. don't worry if you can't see everything. now I will show and show how it will hold up in the end, of course , I'm in a hurry so that the video is not too long if I did it for myself and not for the video - all this would be more neatly longer, but more reliable and it seems to be soldered, albeit a little cool down. look what we got. I've already done a couple of tests on the part. I say again, I did not really try so the quality of the soldering, do not find fault, it was important for me to show you the meaning of what is obtained. now let's try to tear it off .. whoever soldered aluminum at least once in their life know that when you try to solder something to it, it immediately comes off, I specially stripped the braids more than required in order to make it easier to tear off because the wire is slippery and the hand moves out. I try to tear it off with all my might. I can not . you see that the wire has lagged behind the jumper exactly to the place where I was soldering and then that very place of the solder, this strip, here it goes smoothly and now I will even take a screwdriver so that it would be convenient to show the very place of the solder. this is a flat strip like I was rubbing with a soldering iron here we have a soldered wire and I tore it off. the wire was torn from the place where it was soldered, and the tip of the wire itself remained soldered further. he did not come off the strength in my hands a lot, that is, I can safely tear off such a wire of my hand, well, many have seen it in the video, but I cannot tear off no matter how hard I try, the soldered part of the wire from aluminum is so simple, but very effective way. so use it and don't thank. the best gratitude on your part will be like this video, and you can also share this video with your friends, I think many in this life have to periodically face the need to solder something to aluminum and many people suffer. if they know this method they will never have such problems. Thank you for watching this video, as I said, if it was useful to you - like it, subscribe if you want if you were interested. great luck to all. bye everyone