Well, I want to thank Emily and Bob and and present some of our recent, uh, historical I don't want this to be too loud, is it too here or anything? No? Okay, um, yeah, so, uh, uh, is what I'll be speaking about, uh, this quotes that will introduce what we need to know presentation. Um, but when we talk about, and what mindsets in people, uh, related to some of these in a society driven by science and technology, Um, Tolstoy: "The most difficult subjects can has not formed any idea of them already, but the intelligent man if he's firmly persuaded in what We have these problems of assimilation bias the originator of the scientific method. "Human opinion, draws all things else to support and follow the money. Upton Sinclair: "It's difficult salary depends on him not understanding it." represent, uh, some of the challenges, uh, of science in one way or another. we document every year, uh, the, the, uh, functions is to, uh, log the dead, uh, basically, and you can see it's always increasing, um, to you know, we're getting almost 1,700 people a day and if you divide that number by 24, it comes not an insignificant--this is an epidemic. into these problems--billions and billions of from private foundations, you know, the pink People just mindlessly run out and throw money at going. There seems to be no accountability, private foundations. It just seems to be a a problem with the expectation that something What I do is I check the scientific foundations that support it, and then you can This is a lot of words--cancer statistics from are making major progress in reducing the death who said, "This is the most exciting time about all the dead people?" They said, "Yeah, uh, but one of the things they tell us, uh, about uh, there was this anti-smoking campaign, uh, right? You sit next to this guy, "Oh, you can't." smoking was unacceptable. You know, years you'd have to wave the smoke away--you couldn't puffing away, everybody's puffing away. Half the Now if they catch you smoking, they have a So as a result of that, we've prevented line is all the people that would have so if we didn't stop smoking, we would have on a trajectory of increase. So the biggest a behavior--personal behavior one--not from what on television every night about how wonderful it and then they give you 15 different The problem is, it's personal choice So we're going to talk about cancer. What is People always say, "What is cancer?" is this disorder caused by genetic mutations? it caused by chronic insufficient respiration, refer to as substrate-level phosphorylation? science: a scientific theory is simply an the facts--reality is based on replicated facts, a credible theory. You collect a lot of data, And if everyone is interpreting it in a similar Credible theories move science forward, whereas Now let's look at some of these in historical better the movements of celestial bodies than the ideas of Aristotle and Claudius Ptolemy, of the planets when the Earth is immovable we see the planets, and then we see the stars, It was a series of mathematical epicycles, uh, way and then all of a sudden decides to turn and for 1,800 years. Then Nicholas Copernicus, up on the mathematical problems with the celestial organization of the celestial bodies--if we put another planet--maybe we can better account for supposed to be at the time they're supposed to far more accurate than previously thought. understood that they were not just perfect circles exactly what Copernicus was saying. Of course, the moons of Jupiter and also the angles of the he was put under house arrest by the the power establishment at that time, which was and predictability. Now the poor guy on the lowest guy here? Anybody know who that is? Nobody? Bruno was a cleric in the Catholic Church, He ran around and told everybody that the center of the universe, the sun is. That held him upside down, and burned him alive in of science--Giordano Bruno, you should all but poor Bruno was burned to death. Why? He was But there was one thing that Bruno said that &quot;There might be life on another planet.&quot; Oh, he was finished, and that was the end of Bruno. Copernican Revolution, and the Renaissance Then we have the germ theory, which could explain bad air (miasma) theory. The miasma theory and his ideas about disease permeated all the clearly showed with his experimentation that not miasma. He was vilified by the French medical "He doesn't have an MD degree, therefore we can't turned out to be right--the MDs were not right. theory of evolution by natural selection, which the theory of special creation. Those little original ancestors. Each one of those horizontal of thousands of years. You can see all the of biological plants and animals over time. cancer--nothing in cancer biology can make we incorporate evolutionary theory into our And thank you to Chris Palmer for at least actually a spaghetti network inside the make them look like little beans, but they're divide, and they have a very active participation So, can the mitochondrial metabolic theory cancer than the somatic mutation theory? This is these theories is correct? We're going to dive come to your own decision as to what you Does cancer arise from nuclear somatic damage with compensatory fermentation? There's damage, and you have to have protracted to in our lab as substrate-level phosphorylation. I screw up with one thing, they will attack me! the rest of them, so I have to be careful. We're looking at two organelles here--the mutation theory of cancer says that mutations in the nucleus that cause the cell to will present evidence that challenges that. Weinberg. They're down here--Robert Weinberg is at in all of biology--cited by 75,000 times--Hallmarks an irrefutable truth, a silent assumption, if cells carry the oncogenic and tumor suppressor Page 661 in the paper--you can read it if you Okay, so this concept has now permeated all and cell biology. All the medical students, when biochemistry or whatever, they're talking about kinds of mutations that we're going to look at. Cancer Institute--our government's cancer website, there: &quot;Cancer is a genetic disease; that is, it way our cells function, especially how they &quot;Cancer is caused by certain changes What this means is, in terms of Francis Bacon's field says cancer has to be a genetic disease thinks it is--not everybody, but a lot of people. you're going to understand what the current if you think you understand what the disease is, manage it. And you just saw all the dead So, we have mutations in tumor suppressor genes of control. So we look further at this, and we see of some gene, a protein of a gene in our genome, state. A mutation happens in that gene, and you tumor suppressor. These are tumor suppressors. we also have these things called proto-oncogenes. if it gets a mutation, some sort of mutation--there changes--you can have a mutation in the normal which makes the cells grow faster. You can have a multiple copies of this proto-oncogene, leading or you can have the gene move around the kind of promoter, forcing the product to be in So we have the tumor suppressor genes, kinds of things, and this is all part of the view of what we think cancer happens to be. He says, "We now know precisely what causes well-defined&quot;--and remember this term--&quot;driver there are some that don't do hills, all this kind of stuff. Drivers are the be to target the driver genes that are causing okay, or causing a particular population of cells Now, here we are today. Individuals' cancer cells You hear about all this precision medicine, Breast cancer cells are being examined to see if There was a company down here in Kendall Square, dollars. It's a company that looks at tissue different kinds of mutations. And you get this I have." They look at that and say, &quot;We but if you really want the Cadillac list, you can of different mutations.&quot; And you say, "Wow, what But anyway, the information keeps a lot of like this. But you also have the observer principle applied in human tissue. By looking So what you're looking at may no longer be what's that tumor from which you're taking the biopsy. and his papers before. This is a paper from aren't working. The bottom line is they and what's very interesting about these therapies that were treated with these various kinds of it looked like the tumors were--wow, the tumors But the people don't live any longer. Very What I understand is that the Food and a new drug should be given to human beings based the drug look like it's doing to the tumor? And if well that's great, but we really should be looking any of these other drugs? And they don't look at Now, evidence challenges the somatic mutation you end up like Bruno, right? So you've got they don't want to talk about it, We like to quote Einstein--we're all "No amount of experimentation can prove me right, let me show you stuff that should have proved Here we have Theodore Boveri, in 1914, who wrote thought that cancer might have something to do of chromosomes. He came to that revelation &quot;I have no clue how sea urchins are related to know, Theodore, I think you're out to lunch.&quot; He apologize to the entire cancer community because And now we've anointed him as the father of Now, we're looking at some cancers that have no Parsons, and everyone--those are big papers. So of breast tumors using a very powerful genomic other breast cancers had thousands and thousands that in your somatic mutation theory. Nothing. in one of the glioblastoma papers, patients signaling cascades. Well, interesting. cancer driver genes are abundant in all of unbelievable! So if we took samples from all go down to Dana-Farber, and they say, "Oh, we're got all these mutations.&quot; And you say, "Well, "Oh no, you've got the driver mutations." you give immunotherapies to some people, the cancer does. The problem is, of course--and Martin target precisely that mutation, precisely that we're going to take your kidney out along with We've got what's called hyper-progressive in cancer. Some cancers don't cause mutations, cancer in Aboriginal tribes. People who like these Africans and Inuits from the Arctic--the figure it out. He looked at 10,000 Africans was strikingly different from the Europeans. Bay, Canada, and they service the Inuits. They're all kinds of things. And yet, 100-150 years ago, planet. All they did was eat meat and fat--they except seasonally. when the western diet and lifestyle enters going to have all kinds of chronic diseases. the chimpanzee, which is 98% similar to us in gene case of breast cancer in a female chimpanzee. but there's a stark difference here. The chimp whether it's in the forest, or at Franklin Zoo was at the San Diego Zoo, and I said to the vet, these things? I'm sure they'd like it." "Oh yeah, "Well, I'm standing here eating a jelly these kinds of experiments on chimps--it's So, I checked--go down there Now, the nail in the coffin came from what I studies that transplanted the mitochondria or and moved both nucleus and mitochondria back and experiments--what I did, for the very first there in a different light. And I published and then this was in 2015. It's got over This is the very simplistic summary of dozens So green cells get other green cells, normal the mitochondria structure and function are in their growth during normal turnover. beget tumor cells, and tumor cells have but many do. They also have abnormalities mitochondria. So what is causing the disregulated it something in the cytoplasm--abnormalities in the When the red nucleus from the red cell is placed Schafer, in vitro and in vivo--they got regulated Then they took the nucleus from the normal cell and they got disregulated growth. This is just the genes were controlling disregulated cell growth. mitochondria and purify them and put them into you take abnormal mitochondria and put them Clearly, what nature is telling us is that dysfunction, not by nuclear mutations. of cancer, then how do cancer cells arise? We back to the work of Otto Warburg, the German by Sam Apple. Warburg was a Jewish scientist and hoped Warburg would cure cancer someday. from chronic damage to cellular respiration. oxidative phosphorylation--this is what we're non-oxidative form of energy. You move a phosphate ATP--it's different from oxidative phosphorylation. cells got energy before oxygen came into the Cancer cells upregulate these ancient Cancer cells continue to ferment glucose in the happen. This is called the Warburg effect. effect. Our big contribution to the cancer glutamine--the most abundant amino acid in our cells. This is different than what everybody sitting here, has some of the strongest Opoulos at Semmelweis University in Budapest, phosphorylation in the mitochondria, and we're now They threw Warburg under the bus when Watson and these tumor cells are full of mutations." didn't have all the parts of the puzzle. that he was essentially correct. signature malady of all cancer cells. and get the woman to look at all the that tumor has a different constellation of This breast tumor, that breast tumor--they're same mutations, even within the same tumor--all But one thing is common to all of those cells: energy from a non-oxidative source. So the key to fuels. I mean, it's not complicated, and So what's the evidence? Are you sure about that? because that's where you can really see them and look at their function. beautiful stripes--they are the cristae. They electron transport chain. Chris showed a picture mitochondrion. The one on the right--that's a You can see the cristae are missing--it's called It's an evolutionary conserved concept--if the function of that organelle will be abnormal. the healthy cells, there are normal breast We brute-forced these mitochondria--we took out molecular detail. The cancer cells have a very in the breast--the spots there are vacuoles. of cristae. Structure determines function. at all human cancers that we have studied 80s. In the early days of electron microscopy and recording what they saw. So I just went seeing all these different cancers with abnormal All of it represents over 90%--bladder, breast, melanomas, osteosarcomas, pancreas, all have problems--abnormalities in the number, In our most recent study with Dr. Tea, we put that deadly because they'll create reactive oxygen So what the cell does is evacuate them--they put sign that the mitochondria aren't working, because explode from the ROS. So, to protect the cell We went through all the major cancers--they're all storing lipid droplets. It's meaning that those cells need to ferment. What How come nobody's targeting the Very simple. Can't do simple things. normal cells, here's a very simple overview. pathway--is documented well. Glucose is pyruvate. Pyruvate goes into the Krebs cycle, like NADH and FADH2, which deliver their and we get tremendous amounts of energy and water come right out. We also get a little These are the ancient pathways that oxygen came into the atmosphere. the shift. You get a lot of energy now from substrate-level phosphorylation--and you the percentage--that's one of the debating oxidative phosphorylation is neither necessary nor Glucose and glutamine fermentation in the phosphorylation are necessary and sufficient I don't want to bore you with these. We love looking at this stuff. But you can see the two driving pathways that provide the metabolites needed for new growing cells. glutaminolysis, glycolysis, and energy. These but they're blowing out reactive oxygen species we're not getting very much energy from oxidative substrate-level phosphorylation, with succinic and water, but succinic acid and lactic acid. Now, this is Derek's gift to mankind. stand up there! Let people see who you are! of energy into this, and we thought about through using glucose and glutamine as idea that this is a high-throughput system. fuels in enormous amounts relative to normal succinic acid into the microenvironment. oncology is: "My immunotherapies don't work. work." There's so much acidification in these things from working. Where's the crisis? If I take away glucose and glutamine, these things right? Nobody's doing that. But anyway, powerful pathways are feeding off driving the disregulated cell growth and the And then we put this together. Okay, we've got and over time, chronic disruption of oxidative The Delta G prime of ATP--this is the key the energy efficiency. So, we're keeping The green line goes down--that's oxidative increase in substrate-level phosphorylation. phosphorylation is linked to malignancy as Anybody know what Einstein's red shift is? The thing. That's how strong the linkages are. puzzle together again. The common cancer is damage to the mitochondria. That damage intermittent hypoxia, systemic inflammation, older age. Every one of these things impacts mitochondria, producing reactive oxygen species most of the mutations that we see in the nucleus mitochondrial damage and dysfunction. Yet we're So ROS go on, now the oncogenes turn on, and pathways of glycolysis and glutaminolysis--are So how is the cell going to survive? The alternative energy is substrate-level Now, we can take all of the hallmarks of Hanahan and link every one of those back Now, there's a book--Sid Mukherjee wrote The in the book: "I don't understand what's the understand." And the end of the book is very "For Christ's sake, didn't you read some of our You should be on a ketogenic diet or something!" fermentation, what therapies might be one approach is to target those fermentable fuels. to show you the power of predictability. As you should be able to predict something," right? of cancer, following changes in plasma glucose fasting. I'm going to talk about that in a minute. and then raise ketone levels, because it's the Now we're going to give them fatty acids and it'll make the rest of your cells healthy. hydrolysis. This is the key to why ketones are Now, look at this: the ad libitum mouse is given other group is the calorie-restricted group, days post-inoculum. And you can see we got a obvious. People say, "Wow, all I have to do is percent in a mouse is water-only fasting. Do you can do? You know, they don't want to water-only but anyway, the mouse had no choice. We put him Now, here's something I want to share with you for he first saw my book, what does he do? He turns right? He suffered having to measure nail lengths to me, he punished me by giving his father All these red lines are Jeff Glassman's paging out exactly what we did, how many mice, and I let him look at it. I explained every one concerned about. I did paraphrase--Perna this is a smart guy, but we're not that dumb!" every one of Jeff's criticisms. Finally, he writes than I thought." He actually accepted what I said. thought you understated your case mathematically. understating. I had to present it the way we and exercise for us to look at how someone and if we were able to communicate the Yeah, you know, regardless of what he said, and mitochondrial transfer experiments. it wasn't. But you tell me--you're No, I don't know either. It's Dogma. You can't change religion in people. and people still say cancer is Anyway, we got a lot of work from Jeff's not directly in your field, and they see are viewing this information. Therefore, our to make others recognize what we're doing. spend a lot of time addressing those issues. important. Each square is a mouse under a regression analysis, which is actually as the effect. So, glucose was the independent in the blood--and the tumor weight is the size. sugar goes down in these animals, ketones go energy--when you stop eating, if the brain doesn't the body mobilizes fat, turns it into ketone And that's clearly related to low insulin, you'll see that as the glucose goes down, the smaller as the blood sugar went down. The higher This is the first evidence in the scientific that the rate of tumor growth is linked directly we've seen it in glioblastoma, colon cancer, cancers that have been looked at. The the patient will die sooner. There is definitely a Now, what we did--based on a lot of build the glucose-ketone index (GKI) calculator, glucose to ketones. Glucose is usually measured and then we measure ketones, so you have this of 2.0 or below put one in nutritional ketosis. the way we existed during the Paleolithic period. our diet--we had a lot of exercise, and almost no lot. We ate predominantly low-carbohydrate What we're doing is simply taking people back get a GKI?" You can do it with a ketogenic diet, do it with any kind of diet. Each person will have religious, or whatever, to get their GKI. and then we switched it to all cancer healthy people like these CrossFit folks and GKI. My good friend Dominic D'Agostino lives in to prevent cancer as well as manage it. the concept of &quot;press-pulse&quot; from paleobiologists. plants and animals on the planet, but we actually pulse therapies. Press therapy--you put patients that kind of thing. Even ketone supplements. is very important because when you're under to keep your glucocorticoids down, reduce stress. all think they're going to die. So stress makes the metabolic therapy work better. scheduling of glucose targeting, glutamine which can eventually replace radiation for tumor cells by producing ROS, but it enhances while selectively destroying the tumor cells. a managed state, and then, with improvements from management to a state of resolution. Dr. a major paper under review right now in a major for the metabolic management of glioblastoma. This to treat cancer patients on a day-to-day basis, to treat individuals--personalized nutrition, all when that paper comes out, there's no excuse because here's the "how-to" manual to do it. glioblastoma--terrible brain cancer. This is what the president's son. It's a terrible disease. You from intracranial pressure. Those purple cells across the surface of the blood vessels, called brain, even though you can't see the tumor cells. but the tumor cells are out there. That's why they always there to some extent," because the tumor Now, here's another very interesting thing--let didn't you say that Greg talks about failure than how fast you're going to die with a curves--this is five surgical institutions. You this. All these--and we can go all over the world to get a survival curve that looks like that. hard it is in the oncology field to replicate hasn't been any improvement in 100 years. months. In 2024, the median survival is got the Webb telescope for crying out loud, Why? What is going on? Why are we not moving We published this paper, and you ask me why people the tumor--cut it out en masse--you create a you start irradiating them. That breaks apart the up massive amounts of glutamine--the fuel. That's brain, they give you high-dose steroids to reduce I just showed you--the higher the glucose, obvious. The two fuels driving the disregulated What we're doing to these poor people is denying is because everybody on the planet is getting the of care happens in India, Germany, Japan--all This is explainable--it's explainable because recover from the surgery and targeting the So we developed the therapy using the VM3 characteristics that we see in human GBM. And which is a glutamine analog. The glutamine utilization. So we put the mice on a ketogenic I can spend hours with you, but the overall What you get is--the blue line is the untreated by itself. The red line is the drug by itself. with the drug. You can see how powerful it is. well at the beginning, but they insisted the attending physician, "The guy's he's a corn farmer, he's a young guy!" "Oh no, Anyway, I'm here in Boston, he's "How's the patient?" "He seems to be doing okay." he starts getting headaches. He dies at 30 he had died from liquefaction of the brain due It was very disheartening to me. Then Question," for Harold Varmus, who runs the NCI. of care for GBM." Oh, can't do that, right? until we stop irradiating the brains of big treatment paper as well--radiation brings Once we have this protocol, the one we're if we can stop radiating these poor folks. remembering Brittany. She was a young woman, right after they got married. She gets a that exploded into a GBM. She puts her story in than take the standard of care." But you can see high-dose steroids. When you give people high-dose So she dies with dignity with Now, this is our man Pablo. We wrote a case Brittany--glioblastoma, no radiation, no chemo, attending physicians told him, "You're going to affairs in order." He said, "The hell with take radiation and all that stuff, I'm not going So, he rejected that, and I'm going to with good quality of life until just this month. see it when it was this big thing with the arrow, first debulking surgery in early 2017. It grows In the meantime, he gets married, he We found out that, in addition, he had the glycolysis and glutaminolysis pathways, giving time to talk about that, but if anybody's go into a deep dive on that. But the idea is, diet and lifestyle together with God's gift of a Now, here's Pablo. Thomas and I had and we were laughing about Pablo surviving operations on a previously inoperable tumor. how many more? Are you going to outlive me? Are We were laughing--he was perfectly healthy, there after that conversation, to our surprise, they residual--we think we can get it out." So he talking and everything. Then 12 dead from the operation, not from the tumor. live with glioblastoma. Everybody was looking And then I know poor Danny Sheehan, right down here on the coast. He was diagnosed spinal cord and everything. You can see his everything they gave this poor little kid. Now, because of that, we got a grant from a cancer, thankfully. We developed the pediatric and myself--where we can put tumors into the brains and other little kids, and we could see the key aspects of pediatric oncology in these mice. it. So, you can see the difference. The guys on metabolic therapy, and they're all going to ones on the right--we gave them ketogenic diet, glutamine simultaneously while raising ketone This is going to be a blockbuster in the because cancer is a genetic disease, This woman here was treated by Ikiki, of this was from Ohio. She had breast cancer that spread spots are the spread of the breast cancer. for managing it. They said she had one month to did all these horrible things to her.&quot; Nothing to Istanbul, and almost died in the ICU for two Then they put her on this metabolically we're not throwing out anything. Like Chris said, things that can work if you do it the right way. husband in Hawaii in 2021. Last week, I had to "What's going on with the woman?" how's this woman doing? I don't want to say..." thanking me for all the wonderful life she's We got this guy from Greece--he had Restricted ketogenic diet, primary lung cancer. I wrote a puff piece for Nature on how we can And then, of course, the dogs. Jimmy's dog, This woman came to me and said, "Can you a veterinarian to make it look like... Lauren come on, join us," because I'm not a vet. This was a mast cell tumor on the dog's no more carbohydrates for you, poor dog." It's down. She gave it raw eggs, raw chicken, fish oil, And lo and behold, the tumor disappears. 2016--completely healed. They said, "Oh, you've cost a lot of money, the dog will be very sick, I don't want that." So no surgery, no radiation, a half years of age from heart failure. the therapy kept the dog alive even longer. cannibal autophagy, like Chris was saying, where the cell. But there's also autolytic cannibalism. every cell in your body has to justify its got a tumor, those cells aren't functioning and attack and eat the tumor for the We have stage 4 cancers--we don't consider If you do metabolic therapy, we don't There's this book, Cancer Revolution, by Maggie of lung cancer that spread to the brain, and registry of all these people who are alive, dozens--"I'm alive! I'm alive!"--she's got all We haven't even standardized this we're going to drop the death rate on cancer how do you get through the wall of obstacles that you can't, you can't." Remember that guy telling people need to live, for Christ's sake! can explain better the origin and management When are we going to get rid of this mutation crap? We can keep people alive. disease, it's a mitochondrial metabolic disease, And not only that--press-pulse We're right about this. Chronic disease--it's carbohydrate. Get your GKI to 2.0! Everybody running down the streets looking for somebody to crying out loud--they'd all be healthy. But no! &quot;Pills and surgery,&quot; and you have a hundred obese and lifestyle change? One guy in the line! We're having a global society for cancer metabolic over the world. We want to set up clinics. once the paper comes out, how are we going to are the nuts and bolts of this whole thing?&quot; support--Greg, Broken Science, and yes, CrossFit us. Broken Science, the Corkin family for sure, Kenneth Rainin, Children with Cancer United tremendously. Delaware County--the fund is really a blessing for us. Cancer Institute and the NIH supported us. and I'll be happy to answer any