Hey smart people, Joe here. A lot of us probably remember when we had Dad: Hey son, are ya winning? We need to talk... Dad: ...about seeeeeeeeeeeex [Show open] This isn't gonna be like that. (hopefully) First, a seemingly simple question: What is If you were to ask a bunch of people "what's they would probably say "reproduction". But that's not what sex is for. Biologically probably picturing in your head right now. We all know that passing genes on to the next of life. Survive to reproduce and get your so they can go on and do the same thing. And Method 1: Divide and copy all your information [beat] Or (Method 2) First do some fancy cell division, energy looking for a potential partner, attract not to get eaten by a predator (or eaten by lucky, you mix a random 1/2 of your genes with patch-work offspring. One of these is obviously MUCH simpler than "Sex" refers to just this one bit of the from two organisms and combining them into And plenty of living things reproduce without Or like flatworms, pieces of their body can release spores. Even some bitey fish, scaly of virgin birth. So sex isn't required for reproduction. The truth is, why sex exists is one of the I mean, if you think sex is hard to figure that science hasn't totally figured it out What makes sex so puzzling, is that it's and dates and presents and those kinds of I'm talking about biological costs of sex. In the time it takes say, a bacterium to copy ready for a date. And finding a mate can be really hard. For for sex can feel a lot like searching for system. &lt;They don't have Tinder and stuff.&gt; both male and female parts! Less... searching. But slowness and loneliness aren't actually me. Well, okay, not literally me. But the Consider a model in which every female has asexually, we can consider every individual In a sexually reproducing species, she has next round, each of the asexual females has banjo music] That female still has just one population grows twice as fast as the sexual costly as no sex! This is because, in a sexual species, females can't make offspring themselves! Yes, males species throughout nature, males don't do But one of the strangest costs of sex is that work. Because sex breaks apart favorable combinations Imagine you walk into a poker tournament, this opportunity: For the next round, you can shuffle your cards with another player.. to the cards they have because, they're that work well together. Shuffling winning of them worse, not better. What determines if you win a poker game is the individual cards. And that's how it of genes working together in a particular an individual will survive and reproduce... your hand. To make sex cells, a special kind of cell meiosis. In eukaryotic cells like ours, the things called chromosomes. Those chromosomes Early in meiosis, each chromosome swaps chunks chromosomes. Then, the newly crossed-over gets just one mixed up chromosome from each cells come together to form the next generation, instead of two. In a species like ours, with 23 sets of chromosome ways your mixed up chromosome pairs can split recombination and that's exponentially even a special and unique snowflake. Unless you're So, sex is a really bananas way to get your it is costly and it can break up winning genetic Only about 1 in a thousand (0.1%) animal species asexual. From fleas to trees? Pretty much It's a paradox. There must be a reason, a huge advantage to What is it? Shuffling up your winning hand nature doesn't always play by the same rules. Can you just put in a stock clip or something? Sex creates genetic diversity! But remember an organism that's already well adapted hand of genes working together, shuffling Here's the thing: the rules of life's to game. Environments change, and what was So if we think about our poker tournament change every hand so you don't know if a hand until the next round starts. Now do you Remember that asexual reproducers are stuck seem good at first, but over time, as the selection changes too. And they gradually their hand are randomly being changed with asexual, what was an advantage at first can So once you realize that nature is constantly environment, sex makes a bit more sense now. Whether a parasite can infect a host has a your body essentially have genetically-programmed In a population where hosts have the same evolves to pick that lock can bring down the like in sexual populations, every genetic never seen before, and even if it opens one, The same reasoning applies to any relationship and prey, viruses and their hosts. Biologist hypothesis. The name "Red Queen" comes Red Queen tells Alice, while they're running "Now, here, you see, it takes all the running When the environment and its challenges are of genes in sex is the key to longterm survival. Scientists have even seen this play out in sexual fish species compete alongside asexual ones carried more parasites, just as the Red target for the parasites. But once a parasite all. fish lost their parasite resistance, because like the asexuals. Until the scientists seeded and their genetic diversity returned. Species don't stop evolving just because Ever wonder why species like peacocks or antler to grow or make them easier targets for predators? too. What if these ornaments are attractive that display how healthy and strong an animal mix of parasite-resistant genes, you're are a way for sex to keep some winning genetic a better chance of surviving a challenging plants, some algae, even bugs like aphids, but reproduce sexually when their environment might provide a survival advantage. Switching back and forth between reproductive reproduce asexually, budding off a big toe (sorry, that's a horrifying thought) Well in addition to eventually running out to reproduce. All of these mechanisms, all are coded into an organism's biology bt history. It can be tempting to say, "sex that's not quite right. Sex evolved randomly, point in the distant history of life. And made the organisms that did it a little bit get their genes into the next generation. Stay curious.