In January 2021, Saudi Crown Prince released a video announcing It was a keynote speech a lot like the late Steve Jobs Yet instead of big tech, it's all about futuristic and utopian nation building. The plans are ambitious. A linear city stretching 170km with no roads, no cars and no pollution. This so-called civilization revolution But there's one major point that wasn't A city of this size needs water, a lot of it. And we're talking about Water scarcity is ubiquitous In fact, while a global water crisis it's affecting this region Exponential population increases and environmental impacts have led to the tricky situation of growing To mitigate the problematic countries in the region have and highly controversial measure: desalination. The principle of the manmade You suck water out of the ocean, and deliver the fresh water mostly for human consumption Until now, there have been two main Thermal desalination is involving heating up salt water and then The other, more sophisticated is called reverse osmosis. Using high pressure, salt water is pushed to separate the salt. RO membrane systems typically use However, both methods still both economical and environmental. The economic costs stem from which were linked in turn dependent on how the energy In the Middle East, Desalination plants are responsible for a combined output of 76 million tons A number that's expected to be On a local scale, the main issue hypersaline brine. After extracting fresh water, the brain As it's much denser than seawater, it sinks to the bottom by spiking salt content All this means that countries if there are simply or they need to become independent Egypt, for example, is betting heavily due to rapid population growth Desalination is meant to ease over the massive GERD dam project Across the border, in Israel, drought and overpumping have brought The inland sea is Israel's and its low level is now starving and the Dead Sea. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's The intention is to pump from the Mediterranean and simply refill it. Desalination is booming. The number of seawater desalination has more than doubled Today, more than 300 million people globally A total of 173 countries run but the leader of the pack is by far the largest of the few countries Its coasts are densely stocked Together, they produce more fresh water A fifth of the world's total. At al-Jubail, produces more than 1.4 million and provides the country's capital With very little fresh water yet awash in oil money, Saudi Arabia uses fossil fuels to generate The country also has to cope from this energy intensive industry. Under current RO technology standards, it takes two gallons of seawater The gallon left behind is brine But all this is supposed to change. NEOM is Saudi Arabia's ambitious a 500 billion dollar investment located in the sparsely along the shores of the Red Sea. Among its key concepts are and environmental responsibility. But what's the substance behind when it comes to supplying like fresh water in the desert? The solution is supposed to be that looks like this: a sphere formed by a rising 25 metres into the air, which covers a cauldron The so-called &quot;solar dome&quot; was developed in association with Cranfield University. The theory behind it is Sea water is piped through which feeds the water with sunlight An array of parabolic mirrors concentrates This superheated the seawater As a result, highly pressurized steam is which is then piped to reservoirs The solar dome is meant to produce at an extremely low cost All of it 100 percent carbon neutral. But there's still the issue Supposedly, reduces the total amount of brine helping to prevent damage by not discharging any brine Yet so far, the question of what really is still unanswered. Solar Water alleges that it can be The brine contains substances in other industrial processes. It still remains to be seen and whether the plan to create a commercially for other industries will succeed. The first solar dome is to be trialed on an industrial scale. NEOM solar desalination project for other water scarce countries that are struggling to and sustainable sources of fresh water. Solar Water's vision is bold: carbon-neutral agriculture and reforestation It's hard to predict how much NEOM will certainly put it to the test with the first solar dome desalination plant Desalination, despite all its issues, As it gets cheaper and water scarcity the industry will continue to grow. And countries in the Middle East It's up to all of us to handle in a saving and sustainable manner and to science and innovation to find the most ecological