Wow! Petey Piranha is so big. Oh, and there's that's like double DLC. But yeah, I'm on courses in this course pack for the DLC, and it's actually, it's actually really bad, I think I hit the other Petey Piranha, Petey Piranha has an insanely high weight so this is actually quite a good combination I'm really optimal as I've talked about in my stats I cannot believe that bomb didn't explode. So, Biddybuggy because it looks like the pipe that this. Because if I use that, I'll be sacrificing it's worth it at that point to try and look a the bullet bill, that was so cool. So we're-- oh I have to remember now, like, the red shells. When I see the red shell Whereas before, it was uh, it was like there's a start a drift. This acceleration is not good. I don't know how-- Oh, my own son! He has still make this comeback. Oh, no item. Okay, good Oh, please don't hit me with the red shells. race with Petey Piranha on a track that I'm very out there. I like Peach Gardens. There's a giant using Petey Piranha. Also, I've switched to the Biddybuggy with Petey Piranha is because it looks of as Petey Piranha, or as a Piranha Plant, I but yeah. Now, the Koopa Clown is kind of the same what? I have a banana? Okay, I-- I gotta stop not Oh, I can hit you, but I'm not going to. I've had so many close calls with I'm gonna grab some coins on this side. Doesn't everybody else. Missed some fireballs. Okay, maybe Gonna save these mushrooms. Nooo, and now I know it's a red shell coming changed the game, so they only show me I love these three coins, though. I love when you Okay, is that even a shortcut? I don't know, I it's cool. I don't know if it saves any a straightaway. [Music] I don't need to look Oh, what? What? You got hit? Love that shortcut. There's a Yoshi Yes, yes! The giant Piranha Plant on this comeback. Alright, it looks like the meta come on. Another one, another one? I just want I thought I had a weight stat with Wiggler. Guess do a little drift here. Oh, I'm trying to aim and release the mini-turbo, but I mean, I still what was that? Okay, I'm gonna take the if you think I'm just good at Mario Kart, no, the tracks and knowing what to do on every no matter what other people have around me, so we're gonna take this shortcut. At least for right away when I play a new track gonna mess up the regular driving, at least I did I really just get a coin? I'm in seventh, Oh, this is awkward. What am I getting? Orange am I going? I can't release it. I'm just gonna probably gonna save this mushroom for the shortcut so we're gonna mushroom right around this corner. Alright, and here we're gonna take the toilet get a trick on something up there, but I'm still See, when you do glider vectoring, you it's not risky unless you're familiar with the Yeah, I hit the sponges, but I'm going off the because it's not as easy as the world record made ever. The world record makes everything look I got triple red shells, good protection. Finish Alright, so we're gonna go up here again and trick off this thing. No, no, I'm too can-- blue shell's coming for me? Come on, no, no! many people. Oh, so I was doing the right thing. shell, but I didn't realize that part was out we got Snow Land. This is definitely a comfort a lot, but I feel like the bagging strategy so we're gonna just do that to get some mushrooms. don't red shell me. And we take the shortcut. gonna use another mushroom here just because Gonna have to watch out behind me. But yeah, now to take the shortcut again. So, this is such a No! I almost had a guaranteed win. If that shock the shortcut, but that was a really, really Now, yeah, look, people are catching up to me Okay, oh, there's a blue shell. I think it's too Oh, oh, oh. Yes! [laughs] yes, yes, so you can dodge a blue shell with the mushroom, time it perfectly and I did it perfectly. number two have a slight breakaway right now. it was lag. The black Yoshi successfully got the we didn't get more red shells. I don't think this not gonna be able to catch them, but I probably Th--the--wha--the blue shell-- What? The blue I feel so silly right now. Oh, I had second another DLC course. We have Vancouver Velocity. I be surprised if I even get the top half of the so maybe some other people don't know the layout off. Okay, so I heard this section is really scary maybe not this bridge. I'm gonna try to get Whoa, you can go off. Come on, I got bumped there are also walls on both sides, so if people like right there, there's no way you can avoid section fine. But luckily, it is the beginning of and it's a very luck-based place, you do have time going wide. What the heck? What-- Japanese players? it's not because they're Japanese, it's because sometimes where I feel like I don't have control Okay, it's okay, everyone else is messing up. now. Also, I missed a shortcut before. Right here don't have a mushroom to show it, but uh, yeah, Got some nice protection here. Oh, that that booster. I wonder if that's faster. Okay, so I think you're supposed to hold that drift. records for all of these tracks, and I've been had enough time to actually practice these can't trick off of that. I actually [Music] Alright, looks like my red shell it might have been lag. First place is still Alright, please make it around this corner. Yeah, some people are coming up to me with items. road. Get away-- No! Okay, well, I mean, I should more likely to be taken, but yeah, fifth place. that result. Ooh, Riverside Park, the Piranha I'm gonna do some bagging here. I've been getting to feel like I have more control over the race. timing, that's so not fair. Let's get an item the outcome of this race, do I? Okay, so I is bagging and I'm just in the front here, but Let's do a little circle. Oh, Wiggler on boost. Come on! Okay, I'm going back Okay, I'm in last place now. You know, when So, it looks like everyone's half a lap ahead there's a shock, or I get the shock, or I then we're good because there are so many not gonna be able to--yeah, there we go, there First place is still so far ahead, but trust you just haven't played this game at a high enough is to bag, because the more people bagging, the more likely you can dodge a shock. So, that blue they're gonna win. If we could have another shock no. Okay, it's okay. I have a bullet, this should shortcut, so hopefully nothing hits me here. Okay, come on, take me to first. Take the--yes, there's that was beautiful. That was so beautiful. That on the bagging tracks. I even won by a giant the better room you're in, the better Okay, okay, we're making this work. Trailing like trailing items just because, like, even away from me distance-wise so that they're less items. I hope there's no more red shells behind I like when other people have mushrooms because they're not gonna hit me. Alright, so some front running here, I have two mushrooms. the Wigglers playing dirty with me. No I got that mini-turbo trick, and we have a slight Two mushrooms. I think--okay, we have a blue save the other mushroom for the shortcut probably, shells at this point. Oh, no trick. Alright, Oh, I have a big lead, I like this. Wow, like, but compared to third place, holy. Probably worst unless, you know, I get Mario Karted again, rooms. I feel like if I play with really good because, like, when someone is really good because they're not good, it's because they're dodge shocks and stuff. Alright, oh, yes! My bomb with that. So, uh, I don't know, the Mario could Oh, no! Come on, give me a win! Yes! Oh, that against such good players. I want redemption on well last time for kind of not knowing the track, the blue shell, and I would have been fine. fifth if I had taken the glider properly, but I little out-of-bounds section, and that took me all we have mushrooms. Let's do this. Hop over that. really mind hitting it. Obviously, it's not good shortcut right here. The section is so slippery you can take a different section. I mean, look at right before the item boxes, this is good, that mushroom. [laughs] I don't know--I don't I feel like when you're small, the difference way bigger. Okay, I couldn't get a drift out I don't feel like usually I play a track twice Summit or Mushroom Gorge, but since the DLC just and I love it. It's just better for the because practicing in time trials is one the placement of the item boxes and like, you have Ah, I can't believe that shock took me in that glider so many times. If I was in the Okay, and I'm just gonna keep trying this until I Okay, as long as I got that drift going, I can and that is pretty good. Mushroom? How? Again? how did I miss the item box but still Okay, don't hit me with your bananas. do people just not know to go up? I'm pretty Okay, water down the middle this time. Yes, There was just no blue shell. Remember Waluigi Waluigi Stadium! Okay, so I'm gonna need to I feel like it's been a while since I've played Oh, that was so close to hitting me. Okay, though. I-- I am-- I am risking it picking Waluigi so I am gonna pick it. I'm not just gonna be unless I'm, like, really tired or something, think it. But, uh, yeah, let's, uh, let's dominate here. I have a slight lead, but there's a blue shell, so, uh, yeah. I accidentally trailed oh, now I'm getting-- this is just so trick. Please don't go out of bounds. Okay, had to take a little safer version of that like when you mess up, you can get into a little so let's try to do a little safer strategy that aggressively. Uh, yes, yes, it hit! Okay, I was meaning to lay it at the top of the hill, action. All right, all right, we're looking-- gonna keep driving forward. Ah, it's not the same of making the same mistake as last time. Okay, I'm when small? How does this work? I'm pretty sure Oh no, I messed up and landed in the off-road. You know what's funny? We could get a third blue Like, the fact that, like, we have enough time in Waluigi Stadium because of a third blue shell, blue sh-- Okay, it looks like there's not gonna be okay, yes, yes, the streak continues. [laughs] Oh, times. Oh, it was even a room full of Japanese players are so good at this game. All right, New York Minute. I feel like, uh, the person in first barely got the item box. Okay, so we're gonna go moving faster than everybody. I do not want to a little shortcut here, and everyone's bumping me, So the Wild Wiggler's traction, like, the vehicle on this track because it's a very slippery track. it actually hit them because they used the super like, Wiggler the character, oh, that's-- Wiggler's average traction now, which is kind of annoying. maintain my lead at the start because it's such a All right, we can still do this if I and, you know, chain items here. Oh, Piranha It'll defend me against these green shells. Okay, good. Oh, my defenses! Oh, two shock dodgers. being more careful. I've learned my lesson from Uh, I have to do it. Okay, we're focusing, I have so, like, I get pretty average placements but I voted for Waluigi Stadium again just so I don't know, like, is this plot armor? Like, why someday, okay? Like, never expect something like is going to end at any moment, but it just hasn't. haven't lost on this track. Now, granted, I don't see me upload, like, pretty much those races Okay, I messed that up. Let's-- let's do this. I'm so comfortable being in first place on Waluigi if I'm in first place, I trust myself to keep, the middle, people can hit me with items. Okay, I have a Yoshi right on my tail. This is really Ooh, this handling is not it. [laughs] I'm Yeah, in case you guys don't know, uh, Wiggler except it's slightly smaller, so that is, uh, not the meta anymore, Waluigi Wiggler it. I'm used to having much higher handling in was a decent shortcut. You know what? I should the bomb missed. Okay, that was really bad. Please if I lose, that was why. Okay, maybe not. The item box. All right, good we're protected. Unless Oh, messed that up. Okay, no, no, we're good, so crazy. I can't believe I just won at Waluigi right? It has to. So I need to play a little bit cup. That is literally the exact same combo as me. but the same stats, so that's really I love Kamek's design. I heard someone say I didn't see it. It doesn't really bother me. I I am going to take the bottom route. I'm curious the extra item. Okay, but this is double item box in second place. Sweet. No, we're not. Oh, Kamek, I should not have gone this way they might pack Get away from me. [laughs] It's okay, we can always make the comeback. It's at it. Oh, stay on the top. This is rough. That when the blooper, you lose traction, and I could Okay, I'm gonna need to get my coins back up. be fewer people here. I don't think it's that it's slower on lap one, but on lap two, so it's probably not really even slower. Like, time trial taking the left side, but it's Gonna play it safe here. [Music] Come on, Kusaan slide, did I beat the Daisy? You know what? I usually don't do this, but I thought I might as well just try it again. It's quite a bagging track here. Oh, almost got guide on how to bag. So you just stay in the back and golden mushroom and stuff aren't available much just stay in the back here and try to burn get star and triple mushroom, it probably means 30 that was so annoying. I got bumped. Okay, a bunch of shortcuts. I mean, I still am here and I might as well. Uh, if you get too far Okay, uh, jeez, what's with these items? Come on, I'm just gonna start burning this golden I have a blue shell in the air, that's great ahead. Someone has a breakaway and that breakaway does by the end of this race. [laughs] Okay, I'm gonna burn these mushrooms early so I can so bagging is probably gonna really work out Oh, okay, okay, I could actually-- I I need to wait before I use this I think nobody dodged. I think Oh, I messed it up. I messed it up. I should but you can see why sweaty gamers bag on these on how to play this track, and we are on the pipe only vehicle, I guess, was. So we're gonna do that that item box because I'm front-running and this Oh, no, that was unfortunate timing. I only time don't know how to, how to like time around that a purple mini turbo, and I'm still ahead. Okay, I Let's do this again. Oh, get out Still first though, and they can't really red to do, but it seems like everyone else doesn't actually can bag on this track. There are so many kind of risky to bag because if you don't get the Okay, all right, there we go. I'm I'm so tired with this Yoshi. I guess Trail, get hit, get hit. It's so fun doing that you get to watch if they mess up, I can't believe wait, where's the Yoshi? Did Yoshi get hit? Oh no, Come on. Oh, I have such a big lead, okay, this is that's how to play this track. Go watch the short Koopa Cape! I was hoping to get this at hopes up. I don't know how to play this track. so I still need to learn how to play this track. mini turbo in the air there and then go over the don't go for that ramp. That's only if you want to I'm remembering something. I'm remembering Trick early there to get really far, let's go! I have the knowledge on this track, I I'm de-rusting. I feel like I'm so I'm being able to apply all this knowledge. breakaway on Koopa Cape? This is my first ever I wouldn't be surprised if this was also a lot or at least like one of their first few. You can you get like a slight air pocket. But here, watch, tree. Well, can't show it because of the shock, was the great equalizer and made everything just want to drift off of this and get the orange just tricks off that because if you trick early but if you trick late, then it's better probably going up here and there's a blue shell coming, Oh no, I should have stopped. Oh, imagine That was crazy, I should have tried to use that to take that ramp. Oh, I don't think there's a Oh, what the--that was such a well-placed mushroom. drift over that because of the weird air that the grass so you don't slow down. Another blue Uh, you know what, I think I should go up I could have just done it again. What? There are so many shocks Ugh, that was really annoying. I definitely should shells and two shocks. I thought I was gonna