Hello. Welcome to Mishil. If you need anything, Do you have anything Our shop has some new products. I can introduce them to you. Okay. &lt;br&gt; - This way. These. You're not afraid that your efforts will It's fine. I'll do it. This color is our The building materials There are also purses over This season, white is the leading color Is there anything you like? There's also more over For this season, our designers There are also more dresses Our leather shoes sell well too. What material are these made of? Different styles use ones you're looking There's brass, cowrie shells, Over here, the prices Karat gold, platinum, Approximately how much They're from low to high. We have Does your shop not We do. We have an And over one million. I want to buy it. Are you saying that you want to That's right. Okay, go to the VIP I will bring you a catalog This way, please. Please have a seat. I'll introduce it to you then. Okay. This one is our catalog. These are all diamonds. This This is our brand name, most classic They've been handed This set. Have you ever seen I can't lie about this. I People don't order But when we trained, I saw the I actually think that are a woman's dream. No matter what situation they are If you see such a good looking item This one, I want to order a set. We'll see if the real thing is really that pretty. Okay? This... this might... I This set costs millions. Didn't you just say this is every woman's The predetermined We only accept That means your money has to It's not a problem. I want it. Oh. Then, I'll go invite Okay. This too. These clothes are our limited edition. A million order. Yes! Are you sure she wants Yes, I'm very certain. Linda! Just give it to me. How can you serve such a huge Just give it to Man Ni. It's fine. I'll Let's go. Miss Chen, please have a seat. Here. Eat some chocolates. Thank you. - That... I heard Man Ni say that you want &lt;br&gt;- That's right. I don't know if she the specific details orders... including She's very good. She really has patience, Then I have to remind you customized so you can't I've thought of those. Okay, let me add your WeChat. If there's No need. I just want If there's anything, Also, I don't have enough money I will go back and prepare. I will It's like this. I don't know if it's This... isn't it a full payment? I will come to pay it Okay. Add her WeChat. If Miss Chen has time to come to the Okay. I'll scan yours. &lt;br&gt; - Okay. Message me on WeChat earlier Okay. Your house is a It's fine. Then we won't be sending you. Okay, goodbye. Bye-bye. &lt;br&gt; - Bye, Jia Wei. Thank you for coming. Ni Ni! It's really yours? Look at her moments. She's Say, you have worked and now it's all Hey, did you secretly charts or bring some - Let me take a look. Let me see. What color Even if you try, Why can't I use it? Give it to me. Let me try. What are you trying? Why can't I try? This brings me good luck. I only have one. Give me the lipstick. Assistant Manager. - What's wrong? &lt;br&gt;- Miss Chen said she This is great. I kept worrying because Very good. Very good. Ni Ni. What's wrong with your mouth? Why is it swollen? Go look at the mirror What is wrong? What? I didn't eat anything. I I didn't even dare Ni Ni, you've defaced. Did you eat something wrong? - My goodness. &lt;br&gt;- I think we don't. - Is it itchy? I'm not going. I can endure it. Miss Chen will be here shortly. - You're really something. I'm not going. Why are you being stubborn? This matter can be big or small. Miss Chen will come later. Will you be Eda, send her to the hospital. What's wrong? &lt;br&gt; - Look. My goodness. Let me Hurry and go. My goodness. Assistant Store Manager. What's wrong? Miss Chen actually also Hold it. I can't. Being allergic isn't a small matter. - I didn't eat it. I can't. I can't Sister! Sister, it's done. It's been done long ago. Press it, and go out and That... how long do Five minutes will do. It's done? Are you crazy? It's just these tactics. And you stuck it on yourself. How is it? Didn't Miss Chen What's the point of - I don't understand what you're saying. No one can do it if While you have the chance, What happened today, it's fine if I But if there's a next time, I won't let you be able - How did it go? &lt;br&gt;- I don't know. I'm I'm also nervous. I've signed you up for a meeting, once But aren't there only three You don't request for them with work. Shouldn't Think about how you The store manager supervises many They won't know If you leave a good impression then Thank you, Assistant If you didn't think it You're delaying time. Go out. The next one, Wang Man Ni. Yes. Please have a seat. Say it. Talk about Save the polite words, many people Hello, Store Manager. I'm Wang Man Ni. From junior to a senior, it's been three I actually noticed Since two years ago, the global Every brand is the same. Even Tokyo and New We just took advantage to combine stores in order to not But is not laying people I believe that instead, the passageway Before, as long as the a promotion every three But I already have It's enough to become a But I know that at our store, there's a lot of coworkers in front Store Manager, I hope that before I can get promoted I'll treat it as a Before thirty years old? There are not many months left. So I want to speed it up. What Our company has so many All the general salespeople are on what do you think is I always thought it was based on customer resources, based on sales performance. Being the highlight is more I understand. I believe getting and not by waiting. Ni Ni. What did Store Manager ask? Go in and you'll know. Ni Ni. What's wrong? Is your I was probably too nervous. What? You've been Go take a look. It's fine. I'll just rest a bit. Don't be careless. You're already sweating. Get up. Drink slower. I didn't dare to because I was afraid I When a customer sends saying that they're You're the only one who doesn't It's the same with everyone. Ni Ni. The elevator is help the customer get Everyone, pay attention. A call came from the front - Scared me. &lt;br&gt;- Saying that the elevator is broken so we Incidentally, run an Let's see who isn't Okay? Xiao Yang, you're Why don't you go over there? Okay. I'm very busy. We'll go together then. You two hurry up and go, okay? Let's go, sister. If we still can't the fund flow of the company for the Jia Jia, there's news The elevator is broken? Isn't there two? Both of them are broken. I have to trouble It's fine, it's fine. I suddenly have something I'll look at this at night. If Okay, it's fine. I'm sorry. Gu Gu, I already asked for you. Mrs. Wang goes to the Madame's Gathering If you block her at that time, you will meet her Do you know this is a task to walk Why? Aren't your We can't deliver it today. Hello, I'm from the Hello, thank you. It's like this. We're people already went Look to see if you can Okay, no problem. Thank you. What floor is this? - What about that one? Sister, I'll give I won't thank you for it. What? Do you want Sister. Brother. I'll give you guys fifteen yuan. Your floors go too high. It will Twenty yuan. I'll Okay, deal. Sister. Sister, your ninth floor It wasn't easy for them I can go up. Husband, quickly transfer I only have eight Dad! Mom! I'm back. You came back just in time. It'll be finished soon. &lt;br&gt; - Okay. Here, here. Try Is it good? &lt;br&gt; - Good, good. If you are coming back then come Don't mention it. A couple of days ago, Today, he peed on the sofa too. Whether it's alive or not, It's right to not raise him. You must raise him well for me. I also don't like cats. Let Oh right, Mom. I'm coming back to Okay. I'm happy that Actually, I knew The station had Chen Yu go You should come home. It's cold and lonely there, who will make you Come and eat. - Let's eat. He's not dirty. This child. I already told Mrs. Wang. Just directly go up. Xiao Song. &lt;br&gt; - Sister Jia. I want to go to Can you help me swipe my card? Are you going to Please wait. I have Okay. Hello, this is the front desk. Okay. Sorry to bother you. You can, Sister Jia. I will help Sorry to trouble you. Thank you. Hello. Hello, I live downstairs. I Okay, you can change Okay. Thank you. &lt;br&gt; - You're welcome. This highest floor is a duplex? That's right, it's three floors. Madam, your customer is here. Let her come up. Okay. This way please. Oh, okay. Be careful. &lt;br&gt; - Thank you. Chen Yu not letting you When you're pregnant in the future, Mom, you always hold your phone Why do you only choose Pregnancy and raising Who said... Did Chen Yu agree? You two are ready to have a What do you mean Chen Yu agreed? This is a mutual we won't have a child for We want to be free for Look, you're almost When you're thirty and pregnancy-induced hypertension, Enough, enough. Don't talk about I just got my A hard-earned 500 yuan went Just let our daughter eat. Today is the fifteenth? What's wrong? Nothing. This child. Dad, you're about to I'll go restock your goods when I It must be broken. I think your telescope Why don't you try it at night? It might be more effective. You were introduced by Yes. I brought some dessert for you. I made it myself. It's You can give it a taste. Want to go to De Pu, Yes. Give it a taste. You really made it? Yes, I made it. I love eating cake. I tasted all the The flavor isn't bad. That's great then. If you want to eat it then I'll make it In this building, there are eight or ten children Do you know why? It's because my husband is No way, no way. We Did you just move in? Yes, not long ago. Which floor do you live in? We live on the Oh. That's a lower floor. You know that the rent increases as the What does your family do? I am a full-time housewife. My husband is managing Firework company? Then how much can Madam, your art Wait a second. Slow down. Hello? Xiao Qin, what's wrong? Hello, Gu Gu. There are two What do you mean by two lines? Say it more clearly. The pregnancy test. I seem to be pregnant. That means you're pregnant. I will go to the hospital It's not one hundred I'm at Mrs. Wang's I won't talk to you. Why are you answering Hurry and do your work then. What do I do? How is it? Do you I just bought it. This... is this authentic? Nonsense. How much will the value Van Gogh's &quot;Water Lilies&quot;. Hang it over there at the Later, I'll have You say, how can restaurants be counted This flower of mine Okay, you may leave. I will reconsider, Okay, then... I'll I won't send you out. What's wrong, Wife? Is she not helping? Have you seen Monet's Monet's &quot;Water Didn't we see it at I really didn't expect that someone could It's hanging on the Who is that rich? There was a news Christie's auctioned it. Why are you suddenly Have you gone to the highest Highest floor? Didn't you say it wasn't Wife, what's wrong? How come there's no She's living that kind We're thirty years old now. We're only a few How come you went out and Say, will rich people A person who can't differentiate can even live in such a house. Will we also be able Don't think about it. You got this. I got this. Say, since we've evolved the biggest breakthrough But from when did we Let's go. What are you doing? Sister Haolan. Let's go and see Her Highness. Don't... I don't want to! Lady-in-waiting Li, I will die. Out of the twenty people who are sick Bai He, where did I... I... If I don't interrogate you now, the people from the Punishment Take her away! Off you go! No...! It was Lady-in-waiting Xiao. It was Lady-in-waiting Xiao Xiao Hongye? Yes, it's Lady-in-waiting Xiao. She commanded me to do which is where the Later, she told me to do it to the east side well, too. I'm scared. I'm really scared! Why did she do this? In order to frame you. She said if I don't she will take my life. She is powerful in I can't resist her commands! I have old and weak elder brother and They don't care They rely on my wage to live. If I die, who will support them? Miss Haolan, I know Please spare me. I will bow to you. You have your but did you think about those They have parents, too. Moreover, it's But the main perpetrator I'm willing to How will you do that? I... I can let you catch the I only beg that Fine. I will trust you. Thank you, Lady-in-waiting Li. Thank you, Lady-in-waiting Li! Sister Haolan, do you think this Yue. Give this bamboo Be sure to ask her... Your Highness, people in the palace are And Her Highness couldn't The Rising Sun Palace There's no guarantee that someone is causing mayhem. Your Highness, please order me to Whether it's human or ghost, I will definitely flush her out. My medicines are depleted. Lady-in-waiting Xiao asked me to wait here at midnight. She will bring the Right here. Do you need us to hide? I mean... If she sees there are she may not show up. Li Haolan, it's late at night and What shady dealings Aren't you, also waiting here at midnight? I am here guarding the tree Finally, I am awarded. I caught such a big What do you mean? You will naturally understand when we are at Her Take everyone along. Yes. Your Highness, as ordered, I Found Li Haolan hiding under the I wonder what shady Speak. What's going on? Your Highness, Lady-in-waiting I didn't dare to disobey her What nonsense are you Shut up. Her Highness is here. Shut up and wait! Quiet. I coincidentally bumped into. Situ Yue adding Then I was threatened by them. I didn't dare to protest I can only pretend to be under Your Highness, your help means so lot to me. How could I possibly do something Your Highness, please How could I dare to They are using the maids The real target clearly I... I didn't dare to obey. When Lady-in-waiting Li she threatened me with my life. Also, it was Situ Yue who coerced me to do it! I often see Situ Yue sneaking around the palace. She must be the one who did it and that's why so many Right, I saw it too. Bai He is normally very careful. Would she dare to Someone must have forced her. That was when I Bai He, you distinctly said that Xiao And now... I understand now. It was your trap from the start to deliberately lure us into it. You are the ones who Now, you are trying blame it on me instead. Li Haolan, you dared to do it Haolan, tell me. What's going on? Your highness, there is no cause or Why would I want to harm you? There's no reason at all. Because the King originally wanted It was Her Highness who You naturally harbored Xiao Hongye, every time you move your lips, you easily spew false Prove it! All these eyes in the Her Highness is so kind to you. Aren't you sorry Your Highness, since Lady-in-waiting please also allow Doctor Li Haolan, the Why are still Why not just admit it Maybe, you can Lady-in-waiting Xiao, Let's wait for Doctor Yin and see what she has to say. Allowed. Doctor Yin is here! Greetings, Your Highness. This was recovered from After investigation, this is the cause of the illness Explain more. This kind of poison is made through collecting centipedes, They can only be used after being The process is complicated. Of course, it's also difficult The patient is easily misdiagnosed The poison caster can This is the evidence of the Is this the evidence against me? Are you sure? Naturally, I am willing to use I saw with my own eyes that This method of refining poison It reached its apex To cause chaos among the tribes. Later, Loufan was destroyed This secret method slowly became Haolan grew up in Handan. I do not know how to Lady-in-waiting If I remember correctly, Lady-in-waiting Xiao's ancestors Your Highness, we have eyewitnesses It's not up to Li Haolan I'm new here, without What would I use to She was under your command to incriminate me! Li Haolan! You are impertinent! It's you who harmed Time and again, you've squandered You have been You are the impertinent one! Your Highness, Li Haolan... You both have your defense. How shall I make a judgement? Mother. I have an idea to What idea do you have, Ya'er? Can I boldly ask a question? Is the palace maid, Bai Correct. Then it is simple. Whether Bai He is lying there must be a commander. There is only one method to find the true culprit. Say it. This sword accompanied my It killed countless enemies, could distinguish the evils and eliminate the crafty rebels. Kill Bai He! Your highness. To prove your innocence. How would that If Bai He is not and is under someone then you should Killing her makes sense for you. Spare me, Princess. I am innocent. Innocent? Who dares to say Li Haolan, how you prove your own innocence is not dependent on me or my Queen Mother. Rather, it is dependent on you. Decide that for yourself. I command you to kill her. Immediately. Princess, the perpetrator could to prove their innocence. This would not prove anything. In this palace, only the master's I command you to kill her! Sister Haolan, Bai He deliberately accused Hurry, you should kill her. I cannot. Li Haolan. Princess, your reasoning Bai He is guilty but she should be Killing other people a reason to prove I think you are scared Xiao Hongye, how about you? How did it become this way? Bai He, even up to now, you are refusing It is Lady-in-waiting Xiao! It is because of that I accused I didn't expect her to kill to silence a witness in Your Highness! I am innocent. Please investigate thoroughly. Princess... Princess told me as long as I kill Bai He, I would be able to That is because you are dumb. Killing other people cannot It only proved your If you are willing then you will also be willing Your Highness, I am innocent. Your Highness, please investigate Haul her down. Your Highness! Your Highness! I am really innocent! Your Highness! Your Highness...! Death by caning! Your Highness! I know I am wrong, Your Highness... Your Highness! All right, today's You may all leave now. Thank you, Your Highness. Mother, did I handle that well? How did you know I want to eliminate Xiao Hongye? However one fights, that's fine. But to implicate the master, Mother, I helped Your majesty owes I'll mark you down for a merit. Sister Haolan, have some broth. Sister Haolan, what is the matter? In the final analysis, the started with that But, I just don't understand. What is it that made it worth her risk to embezzle? Who cares if she gave or sold it for money? That was all her fault. Sister Haolan, since the don't think so much anymore. It doesn't matter Haolan. Why is Qin Royal I saw it all. Why did you get I am mad. Because the people in Because the vulnerable This is unjust! What happened? Can you tell me? My younger sister Xiuyu... Clearly, we grew up together and have been each other's I have been helping I'm willing to share But she hates me. She hates me because She hates me for She hates me. There's also Xiao Hongye. I never wanted to hurt her. But time and again, And tried to kill me. Look at me, why is everyone Why are they full Why? My mother's temperament is mild. She never competes with others. After she got pregnant, someone rubbed Tung oil in the They buried a dead baby's After I was born, this occurred too often. I asked my mother what happened? Because the world is that evil. Mother said, in the past, when she there was an eight-year-old Later, they found out that the killer was the What was surprising was that the elder lady had and never fought with anyone. Then why did she kill someone? She had a disabled who broke his leg accidentally. Every time she sees him to chase other healthy children, she feels utterly heartbroken. As time passes, the pain becomes jealousy, and jealousy becomes hate. It's just because of that she killed someone. It is unforgivable to target a youngster. Mother said, &quot;I envy you because &quot;I envy you because Everyone has such feeling. The difference is that some would sink deeper While some would Into motivation to forge ahead. Haolan, please breathe deeply. Breathe deeply? When you stand in the wind will carry But when you're angry, you will not be able The people who harbor are like that. Are you afraid that I and be unable to You asked me, &quot;Why are people so evil&quot;? Why is the world so evil? I must say. It is not so. Open your eyes. Look carefully around you. If you keep focusing it will become big like a scar. Until it finally But if you ignore it, you will discover Haolan, there's but there's even more goodwill. Qin Royal Descendant, please look clearly. There are no moles on my face. That was an analogy. If you've been moving forward and got obstructed by a rock, will you stop to or just ignore it It's because there that the evil needs and the kind needs As for the rock obstacle, in order to prevent it from I would just kick it off. It's been twenty years. Yet twenty years has Mother, you finally returned. Yes, I am finally back. All these years, I've never forgotten everything and the events I like Xianyang better than Handan. My dear silly son, even though His Majesty the royal court has always You must be careful Mother, I will not disappoint you. This is my homemade honey cake. It's fragrant and delicious. Mother, please try it. Reporting to Your Highness. She is back? Elder Sister, it's been a How are you lately? Yesterday, His Majesty was telling Today, we meet. We haven't seen each To be precise, it has been twenty years, Such a good memory. I didn't expect Aunt to visit I am only here to reminisce. Why is Princess so nervous? From your attitude, you're but for a punitive Princess is so clever and glib. Aunt. Ya'er, please be quiet. Right, I brought some cakes Elder Sister, please What are you doing now? Princess, where do you What do you think? If you wanted to kill me, you Princess, you are trying to make use of me to You have always been rather intelligent. You did help me out during I also do respect you a lot. Originally, we could be good friends. But, you are overreaching in trying Was that laughable? Princess, if a man is unwilling Would he love you even if What logic is this? Look at you. How naive you are! Brothers who vie for the throne are It doesn't matter if In order to hold it tightly in one's hands, one has to take every means The rule of competition in the world is Princess has put on me all the resentment This is just because you refused You're using this as an opportunity to You are fully aware that it has never been for me to You're forcing me to kill you? It's not that easy. But, I do have a better solution. For example, ruin this face of yours. - Master, over here. Quickly! - After them! Master, let's make a dash for it. We can't. They have already We can't get out of here. But they're almost catching up with us! Lu Buwei, please go first. When you get out of the palace, Go quickly. Did you hear me? It is my As long as you leave the palace quickly, Go! Do not hesitate anymore. Go! Are you going to stay behind to be buried Dream on. For all the efforts that Don't hope that you can ever return to me What situation are we in Master, please take Sister Haolan No, we can't abandon Ah Yue by herself. What's the situation now? Both of you go quickly! I beg you two! - Go! Quickly go! Lu Buwei, we can't Let's go! Haolan! There she is! Haolan. Lu Buwei. I'm pregnant. It's hurting. Don't worry. I'm here. I'll bring you to Yin Xiaochun. You will be fine. Stop! Tell me, where have Lu You... Are really pitiful. You... Why are there such She actually sacrificed herself for others. Who is actually the pitiful one? Princess, there's an All of you will stay If they are caught, kill them on the spot. The rest of you, come with Yes! Prince, nothing was found. You are not searching for the assassin, but my Tiger Seal. Since Royal Father already knows about it, you Without the Tiger Seal, you're unable to How long can you hold out based Since Royal Father knows how important the Tiger How could you even dare to commit a Of course, I'm unwilling to kill you I will leave this Red Sun Palace to you, What if I refuse? If you are unwilling, then you will just have to bury the Your Majesty! Your Majesty, save me! Prince Jiao, your ambition to seize the power of The Heaven will surely punish you! Your Majesty! Your Majesty! Ya'er, why have you joined him as well? Have I not treated you well? Why are you doing this? Royal Father is good to me. But I heard that Royal Father sent people to the State The Prince of Chu of that year has Unfortunately, he has already But, the envoy whom you sent has shamelessly said Since you have already sold me away, why are you still This is really nauseating. This is all for the sake of our Zhao State! You dote on beautiful women This caused Changping to suffer a terrible Was that also for our Zhao State? I'm asking you again, I don't know. Don't know? Don't know? What a Royal Father has once joked is charming and smooth like Royal Father, take a look again. Does it still look like the No. Your Majesty! Your Majesty, please save me! Your Majesty...! Your I bore you a son. I have also stayed by your side I want to continue to be with you. Your Majesty! Save me! Please save me! Your Majesty! Your Majesty! Your Majesty! Prince Jiao, you are very cruel! You're wrong. The two young consorts slept with my Royal Both of them died in front of him Who is the one who's really cruel? It must be you, Royal Father! Jiao'er, you are too young. With just these two beloved concubines, you What about the Princess If you kill me, will the Han people You're just saying frightening Han State is weak and small. How would If it really cared about you, how Fools. You know full well Why would he even care about me at all? Isn't there someone over there who is the one All the people in the world know Without Yin Xiaochun, should he would surely die from That is to say, the person who Royal Father really wants The wicked concubine is trying to harm me! Royal Father, do you think this is helpful? Kill me, and His Majesty Don't tell me you don't want the Succession Go! Go and save him! Subtitles brought to you by Shouldn't someone bring How am I going to treat him here? - Attendants. Bring Royal Father back to rest first. Yes. As for you, remain here How am I going to treat him with all of you Are you afraid that he Physician Yin has already given instructions. Yes. Are you satisfied now? Does Princess want to Physician Yin, I never had any grudges Treat Royal Father's illness properly, My hands shake the moment I I'm a timid person. I Your Majesty, they have all gone. As it is now, there is only one solution. [ Physician Hall ] Xiaochun has given me some Is he awake? His Majesty is gravely ill. You have thrown the medicine I brought Now, it can't be used at all. I have to go back to There is no time. His Majesty can't even breath Royal Father, if you want to live, just I... will send her to bring Bring... the medicine here. I will give you the Tiger Seal. Let me see the Tiger Seal first! Royal Father. Royal Brother, we should let Physician If in any case, Royal Father - Then we would have done everything in vain. - Attendants. Send her back to collect the medicine. Yes. Take down this group of rebels! Quickly, go and collect the medicine! Let's go! Quickly, get in there! Quickly! Quickly! Don't disturb me while I'm This is not for calming the nerves. This is for treating a cough. You, go out there to help. Yes. Why are you so slow? There are ready-made Life Preserving Bring it here. Bring it here. Quickly, quickly. [ Physician Hall ] Let's go. The rebels are outside. Orange Jasmine. Chinese Aconite. Oriental Raisin Tree Extract What are you talking about? This is the code that What kind of code? Old General Lian, I can vow to Heaven If you still don't mobilize the army, everything will be too late when Prince, whenever you send out an army, if there's fifty or more soldiers, you need the There is neither the Tiger Seal nor the What is the situation now? How can you still stick If you still don't mobilize the army, you'll just Lian Po! You're resolved not to mobilize the army not But rather, you are resentful that my Royal Father switched I took three years to Just waiting for the Qin and its soldiers' morale to slacken so But Zhao Dan gave heed to He also hates me for being unwilling to He actually passed the army to Zhao Kuo! The very moment that he removed the twelve generals All at once he ruined a full 450,000! Those are the fine soldiers They are the lifeline of Zhao State! Old General Lian. But, I am an official. No matter how bad the king is, he is If Prince can show me the Tiger Seal, I will Royal Father, I don't If I pass the Tiger Seal to During the mutiny of Zhao Gao, In the end, he had to battle on What I want is the Your Majesty, we don't have a choice. Subtitles brought to you by Lu Zhu, don't you have a special Come, perform for us. Get everyone in high spirits. Yes. Subtitles brought to you by Yiren. Yiren. Excellent blade skill. I have never seen such This is delicious. - Reward granted. Good. - Good. Yiren! You finally made your move. Royal Father. Come rescue your king! Come rescue your king! You're despicable! I underestimated you. Your Majesty, aren't you the same? Always suspicious of me. You've always been acting in front of me. Do you think I wasn't aware? Yes, that's right. I've certainly been acting all along. Your Majesty, so have you. We understand each other. That's why we became husband and wife. You say I am as venomous you're probably referring to the I didn't only kill Consort The spouse of Consort Yuan, and also Concubine Meng... I was the one - There are too many to count. Your Highness, don't you understand by now? Xiaochun would rather die than reveal the perpetrator She threatened the lives of the Yin Your Majesty, as clever as However, you've always Even if you were to kill I still would not love you. I killed Consort Yuan because her and openly flaunting their officialdom. I killed Consort Song because she was a spy I killed the spouse of that she had no notion of her As for Concubine Meng... I really can't remember how she died. You're a vicious and Your Majesty must have forgotten. Back in the day, when all the I, Consort Li, overcame all the difficulties and More than that, I personally eliminated all your I didn't hesitate when I stained my hands with fresh blood, At that time, you ignored my On the contrary, you You said I was an ace strategist and was able You also swore you would never That I would be the only one you favored. Now that I am the queen, you say I'm venomous and cruel. Why is that so? You are the most terrifying As a husband, you were As a king, you broke faith and didn't they would have lynched you Except that... You are the love of my life. I will not balk at Therefore, I allowed you to have I allowed you to have a crowd But I would never allow anyone Anyone who flaunts must die without mercy. Your Highness, Royal Father is Nothing good comes from revolting Shut your mouth. Heaven? What is Heaven? If the will of Heaven makes me A contemptible rebel almost Princess Qionghua was my only master. She sent me to your side just Lu Zhu! Bring her out. Get up. Haolan, as it turned out, was all a good show put up by you two. Collaboration needs mutual Because we have the same You wove the Qin army's As a result, it would not sink in water. Zheng'er is protected by the gods. Your Highness, perhaps in your eyes we But we are humans, and we will fight Your Highness, in present times, weren't Just with your strength? Do Rebel! Traitor! You will die horribly. You are jealous and vicious. A rebel against the higher order, Rebels and rioters will Evil woman, you will not end well! You will not end well! Surrender and you will You only have time of half a stick of incense Otherwise, we'll kill without mercy! Haolan, you are the lofty one I am someone who cherishes old friendships. Reporting! Reporting to Your Highness. Lian Po and General Gao How could that be? I understand now. What do you understand? Ever since Prince Jiao's rebellion, you've deliberately put You were certain that I would lead troops to help you, Then you bestowed Prince thus forcing Prince Yu to raise his army. You are extremely vicious. You let out fake news to force Your goal was to see So I followed your idea. That way, the matter What about Lian Po? A commotion would certainly be General Lian Po leads his military If he doesn't want you to You know me well. Don't you The bestowal of crown prince was But my entire plan was... To lure you into making your move. Do you understand now? The one who's successful is the legitimate Make them drop their weapons. Your Highness, please tell Let's stop killing each other! Look what kind of heir you have found. Since they're my men, they'll Why not?! What are you doing? Jewelry, fine clothes and supreme power... I've never cared about them! Don't! All of you, don't come over! Stop. You haven't forgotten For my wife's deep and unyielding love, I swear to Heaven today we shall never betray one another. No, I haven't. However, in this world, promises I already knew it. Therefore, you have to... Be buried with me! - Your Highness! Your Majesty! Zhao Dan... I never ask anyone for any favors. This is my command. You must be with me. No. No, I don't want to. You and I only have this lifetime. There won't be a next lifetime. Remember. I killed you with my own hands. In this world, no one can win over me. Leave no one alive. Your Majesty! Please have mercy! - Your Majesty. Leave no one alive! Kill! Hurry. Your Highness, Your Highness. Physician! - Go see my Royal Father first. Your Highness, Your Highness. How is my Royal Father now? His Majesty's life is at a critical Come, where is the medicinal incense? Follow me! Stop them! You two... are you all right? We are all right. We are all right. - What are you doing? Your Highness must be confused. Who is he if he is not Royal Descendant is a scholar. His fingers are full of calluses. You... who are you? Guards, search the palace. Yes. It's too late. It's already too late. Your Highness, the soldiers chased 20 li (about 6 What did you say? Your Highness, you don't You won't be able to find him. Abandoning his wife and I am satisfied that my Aren't you afraid that Why are you laughing? Yiren is the heir apparent. He will succeed the throne of Qin. If you kill his wife and son, what good will it do Don't forget, Handan is still in ruin. Your Crown Prince's Li Haolan! In that case, you just have to Thank you, Your Highness. Wait. What else will Your Highness command? Yin Xiaochun has been Go persuade her. You know she was forced. Why don't you forgive her? Shouldn't a murderer pay In that case, why do you still I just want her to stay alive. Only by staying alive for a long time I want her to live in unbearable This is a woman's room. How could you be Move aside. Continue to search! What are they looking for? Of course, it's for those Wait. What are you doing? Father, they are dancers. How would they have There must be a Whether it's a the truth will be Old Master, we found it! Old Master, we found it! Old Master. Where did you find it? We found it in Haolan's room. How could it be her? She has always been She doesn't look like Miss, do you have anything to say? Old Master, I was with She never had the I can be the witness. Shut up, you ungrateful thing. You dare to be her witness? Do you know who your Old Master, my sister and I have been working We definitely will not side I just summoned Haolan and in the blink of an If she didn't steal it, who did? Remember this, everyone. Bring the hunting dog here. Yes. From now on, whoever will be given the Drag this thief out and hand her over - Hold on, Father. - Yes! We'll know who the actual What else do you want to do? Say it. Come. What are you up to here? Father, the pearl's box is made It was also smoked with spices. Whoever touches it, she will have the fragrance. If it was indeed Haolan then it's impossible for her not No, you... Similarly, if we let the hunting except for Father, we'll naturally find out who the thief is. You scoundrel! You... This... Father. Stay back... In case Help! Go away...! Bring it away What... Bring it away quickly! - Father. - What's going on? Seems like the truth is out. Old Master... Old Master... This is a misunderstanding. A huge misunderstanding! Who's trying to frame me? This is obviously a crazy dog! This... This is likely to be a Old Master, the pearl is a rare treasure. As you just said, "The person who Are you implying that She has the fragrance on her No, I'm not, Old Master! Old Master is indeed discerning. She should be severely You... No... Old Master. I went into the Yes! I must have Old Master, please save me! Situ Yue and I went into And we even waited But the hunting dog Situ Yue, isn't that right? Yes. Banish her from the manor. Yes. No, Old Master! Save me, Old Master! Old Master...! Stop! Lyu Buwei, just what Miss Haolan...! Please save me! I I really do! I don't want to be If I'm banished from the manor, I'll have to return I don't want to, Miss Haolan. Repaying kindness with evilness. What Take her away. Old Master, save me! Old Master I say, Old Master! I know I was You're all You're all dismissed. I was wrong. And all of you there, you're dismissed. Stop there. Stay here. Lyu Buwei, have you been You believe whatever she says? An inferior and lowly dancer could actually I... Are you done? Pardon? What do you mean? Am I done? How about I give you tomorrow to pass time? Lest you are bored, and start playing What a joke. You... Explain clearly. You asked me to go to the study, and set up the trap on purpose. Then used that time to send someone to my May I boldly ask you? How did I offend you that you would set this up? You are a vixen. If my son wasn't would he have been imprisoned? Lyu Buwei's imprisonment Why don't you ask your Smooth talker Because of you, he purchased a He even gave you These are facts. You are such a That's just a Haolan! Listen. Lyu Buwei. You cannot keep this girl. Drive her out immediately. Father. Aren't you going to I didn't do anything wrong. You were rude and I just heard the pot I didn't hear Pot calling the kettle black? Aren't you the one Why don't you explain it then? Ludicrous! You...! Lyu Buwei, listen carefully. Starting from today, it's either her or me. Make the decision on your own! Father. Father! Father! Father! Stop there! Stop. Why didn't you apologize? You should be asking He was the one who wronged I have already Your father was such Why is he so childish And also that Yaoji. She stupidly personally planted that pearl in my room. She is evil and beyond cure. You're living under and getting protection Can't you just bow Lyu Buwei, you said that we are partners. But you have never treated Look, I'm human and not a dog you're raising. I'll never wag my tail at If your so-called protection is to watch me getting maligned. And now you're even Sorry, I can't do that. Fine. I will show you then, what will happen to you when Let's go. Li Haolan. There are plenty of You are not the only one. Since you do not care then similarly I do not However, I have already spent so I won't let you go easily. Please, any tips Thank you. Please, Sir. Please, give some tips. How much do your Around ten knife coins. That's because your Let her dance instead. How could we do that? What are you trying to do? You don't want to submit to me, fine. Pay back all the General living That's a total of five Not a single coin short. Of course! If I can dance why can't I dance But let's just call I can dance. But I What... Hurry, move aside. Everybody, come! Come, watch the dancing! Come, take a look! What's going on? There is a dance performance are blocking the road. Everybody, come watch! Come, watch the dancing! Come, take a look! How arrogant! Good! Good! Good! She looks like the daughter What nonsense! You should check your eyes. Why would Imperial be performing in the street? I saw her once at a banquet This girl probably looks But I... Won't we discuss Let's go, let's go. Why are you not Imperial Censor Li. Hurry up. Keep dancing. Haolan, why are you here? Hurry. Come home Go! Father, I wish I could go home with you. But, since a long time ago, Do you really want to stay I'd rather be a so that I can be independent What you are doing is not just tarnishing but also an insult I absolutely cannot allow it! Lady Gao murders Father is willing to sell Compared to everything what I did today isn't Fine... I am asking you one more time; I'm not going home. Fine. I never thought that you But you totally disregard Fine. Since you belittle Today, in front of all I sever our relations From this day are no longer my daughter. You and mother gave me life, I will never forget and will always be grateful that the two of you raised me. Father, the kindness in giving me my freedom, I thank you with my whole heart. Come, come! Hurry. Have a look at our dance. Are you satisfied? Didn't you want to father by making me dance on No. Your identity as the is like a malignant tumor. If it is not removed promptly, you will die. Your father cares about Having seen his daughter working as a lowly he would definitely feel he would openly sever From now on, the binding of your and you can start You are no longer a You can do whatever you want. Even if it means to hurt me? You said you want to make whoever trampled However, you are too A person who does not know how to will never achieve victory. I am not trying to insult you, but teach you. Lyu Buwei, this is to remind you. You never consult me beforehand and you don't Nevertheless, I still want to thank you for helping me cast off But please remember my warning. Always ask for my opinion and treat me as an equal. I am not a puppet for I am teaching you I am not used to women In that case, start Does it hurt? Mister... Mister! Didn't you agree Her? I wouldn't sell her for What? Lyu Buwei, I have never seen anyone It's true that I love money. But my target now If you really dance here, you would only earn that But if you would become my someday, we will A good merchant will not let short-term profit jeopardize long-term gains. In the end, you are just doing everything Of course, I am a businessman. Then, I must remind you. Prime Minister To prevent any trouble, he is unlikely to The Qin has won every battle. The Zhao army can do The King of Zhao's What do we need him for? You've changed your plans? My imprisonment was a I found a better path. Master, Lyu Buwei has and is well-liked by Minister Yu has not to go near Li Haolan and become embroiled I knew, I knew! Let's go home first. If the minister finds I will be in great trouble. The mountains are unchanging and the Eventually, she'll My Lord. My Lord, you don't look well. Did something happen in court? You know well enough. I have no idea what you are upset about. Li Haolan is performing She even purposely chose the Isn't it obvious she in front of my fellow officials? How could that happen? I have already sent some men Search? What are Do you think I haven't Let me tell you. Today, I have already as father and daughter publicly! She is no longer my Dead or alive, she is no My Lord. You are just pissed off. We are still her family. Haolan and our Li family are no longer interconnected. If anyone dares to speak her name in front of me, I will throw them Pour me some broth! Lyu Buwei. Father. I told you to remove Why is she still here? I always thought you are quick-thinking and visionary. That's why I handed over the family business to you. But you... Not only have you not been Instead, because of a woman, you have become hostile toward What are you thinking? Father. A farmer painstakingly cultivates his farmland all year. How much can he earn? Why are you asking this? Ten times in return. What about a jeweler who diligently How much can he earn? A hundred times in return! Then, if one elevates a person to become the king? Father. Please answer. That's hard to say. As a merchant, even if we wear gold and silver we will still be overlooked But if I can successfully I can immediately have and be remembered Just what do you plan to do? Did you see that? According to the your son, the high and dares not publicly violate What can you do to me? The death penalty can be waived but you still won't be spared. Men, punish the Princess Consort by tattooing her Starting from today, you can only live with Once stepping out here, you will be telling you are a convict. You will never become Empress Dowager. I want her to know that she needs to be punished No, Empress Dowager Xia! No! Look. It's such a If I were you, I would Then all troubles will end. Better than facing humiliation Isn't that so? Princess Consort, It could hurt your hands. It's truly a You were consoling but now it's your turn. When clothes are dirty, they can be washed. But when a face is scarred, can you wash it clean? Don't be crazy. You only got a scar on the face and you are losing your senses. Are you living You don't understand. If it's your face would you still say this? This is Qin Royal Palace. There are secret We are not playing games, Don't let the minor tricks of A woman like her exists from receiving That's why she With her limited wisdom, other than her face, she doesn't have But are you like this, Fan Ya? Of course, I'm not! Empress Dowager Xia The next step will be to Your only hope now is the King of Qin. You ask me to beg him? Yes. Go and beg him. Impossible. Fan Ya, Fan Ya, you have already and you are still so proud? Can you survive on arrogance? Great Qin is under King of Qin, Lyu Buwei, the civil and all of them are men. A smart woman must know how to use on them to obtain whatever you want. Being proud and with a backbone? It's useless. I'm different from you. I know that everyone in the kingdom says that Empress Dowager They look down on me. But if one really thinks that a beautiful woman has no brains, she must be the biggest Your face has only But if you don't it will be really very pitiful. Fan Ya. I don't care about Go and cry, create You must remain Or else, if you take a step out, no one will be able Don't worry. Leave everything to me. I will help you. Come in. They will do everything they can to help you cover the ugly scar and make you very pitiable and not repulsive. After all, no one likes an ugly face. Are you really going to help me? Trust me. Are you not done yet? Either you do it or not. Once you do it, you must do a thorough job. Isn't that right? Your Majesty, Princess Let her come in. Yes. His Majesty announces I, a condemned woman, pay Are you challenging. Empress Dowager Xia's authority? Your Majesty, for a woman to be humiliated by the isn't the punishment enough? In this calamity, I lost my husband, my baby, my status and prestige. I've lost everything! But, what have I I never involved in any way in the rebellion. Is all this fair to me? Yes, my life was spared. But what's the meaning of staying alive like this? Fan Ya, no, Princess Ya. You should have accompanied but you chose to stay alive. Then you need to accept the humiliating tattoo to accompany you forever. It's more than humiliation now. Empress Dowager Xia wants Your Majesty, I beg you. Please save me. Let me off this time, please? Why are you laughing? Princess, this isn't you. I think this is perhaps. Empress Dowager Huayang's idea. After all, she used to tightly control And now she is trying to get sympathy from me. Zichu! Please stay back, When has anyone the when I talk with him? Stay back. Yes, this is more No women are exactly alike in the world. I much prefer treating than faked feelings. Then you should remember that I helped you before. When you were down and out, I helped you again and again. For you, I even left my home You still owe me. Sure, I can order someone to No! I'm not going anywhere else. My mother was dead, and I'm convicted of treason. Where else can I go? As soon as I enter Zhao, I would be arrested If you haven't please repay the Fine, you can stay here. But, with everything you'll have to learn to Thank you, Your Majesty. Please believe that. I can bear it. Your Majesty, will you by letting Princess She can still be used. I just told someone You went too far. You did things without any You have become arrogant again. How would that not make Was the Doctor dispatched It was a fast She has already been escorted Now, I'm waiting for Bai Zhong and Lyu You are that confident? Aren't you afraid that If someone killed your father, would you still This would ruin the Qin King, you won't be Reporting, Empress Dowager. When the Doctor before she could What did you say? The witness is gone. That treacherous and You acted rashly and Miss, don't you love Minister Lyu instructed It was just fried well Try it now. Forget it. He's afraid that But don't dream so good. Empress Dowager Huayang There are no more witnesses. What did you say? That Doctor is dead. Lyu Buwei, you killed him Why didn't you kill me too? Let me tell you. As long as I'm still alive, sooner or later, I will tell my Older I have never Once the war has ended, I don't care what you will say. Get lost now. Don't show up in Let's eat. Dream on. Even if I starve to death, Men, You, cane her twenty times. Miss. What are you doing? If she couldn't persuade you, She should be punished. - No, don't... - Wait! - Miss! - Wait! Lyu Buwei, why are you so cruel? Do you know how many people are How many people are You don't have the Stop testing my patience. Lyu Ping. - Don't! Miss! - Wait. Miss, help me! I will eat. I will eat now. Everyone has their standpoint. I didn't know you at that time. Lord Wu'an was just an empty name to me. In order to save Perhaps, by saying this, you think that I'm But the late Qin King was I merely made use What Empress Dowager it speaks for itself. I hope you won't and become the General. Doctor Yin treated the soldiers and didn't sleep at all. She's sick now. Relay my order. Doctor Yin will only treat the The rest will go on rotation. General, the soldiers - They said that Doctor She can treat patients every If she sees patients in less than six Tell me, is this cost effective? Yes. Bring a pan of cold water here. Yi... Zhao Yi? She... she seems to Zhao Yi. Doctor Yin is from Zhao state. She's calling for Zhao Yi. Could it be the Crown I heard we caught a new Relay my order. I want to Even if they are old friends, that's Doctor Yin's I will do it immediately. Prince Zixi of Qin died in defeat Chu state has King of East Zhou He urges Zhao troops Crown Prince, we should withdraw our troops. Withdraw our troops? We have many grudges If we don't grab this chance to hit Qin and when will we ever get the Crown Prince, we must not withdraw. Not withdraw? Qin's army is strong and fierce. If we don't withdraw, Crown Prince, please consider the Enough, leave first. Crown Prince. Your Highness, I'm Didn't you hear my order? Crown Prince. Before we embarked, the forbids you from Personal affairs are Go receive 30 canes' punishment. The King now favors Prince Yan and is considering making If you are still obsessed, then you will lose the throne. That's all I can say, Scram! Do it again. Your Majesty, Crown Prince has Shouldn't he take a break? Continue. Zheng'er. You should rest. If I didn't say he could Your Majesty. Zheng'er has been training. Let him take a break. Let him have a sip of water Okay? Must you still be so persistent? Zheng'er, you are the and not a weak kid. If you can't even take how will you be able Your Majesty, Zheng'er's hands Shooting can't be Why are you in such a rush? Zheng'er, listen to me. Take a break. Zheng'er! Zichu. What did you learn in the past? Bai Shi and San Lian, you If you let those they would laugh at you Hold this. When you are shooting, your Relax your fingers when You hear me? Royal Father, mother is angry. Concentrate. Yuanyuan, we are afraid you We don't dare want. Who knows if it's a bastard? Bai Yuqin. At least you also look Such vitriolic remarks I shouldn't have said that. But in everybody's heart that's what they thinking. All right, all right, Hang Jingting. Hang Jingting, your We'll be strangers when we meet. Jiangfu, it's not Slow down. Can not marry, marriage But you're gonna What is a wild breed? I had no idea who I was You insist on your innocence. Then get someone If you're innocent. We offer you a toast Don't check, go go go. Get all out of here, I check. Yuanyuan, why don't check? I'm innocent Who am I afraid? Yuanyuan, we will not accept There's no grievance. It is normal I am still a virgin, Let me just ask you. If this ever comes out. It must be all over Can you stand it? Whether you can stand it or not. You accept whatever Recognize it? I admit it Get tested. W e go back, go. No matter what the test Recognize not recognize? I recognize. How did that happen? Yeah, yeah. There's nothing The Hang's family at least have a reputation. They can't marry a girl In case she broke the virginity Who says not? Is everything all right? She dared to be tested. It's better to be tested. I said she was innocent. And no one will believe her. And we didn't say anything. It's your father, your I didn't break her. It's not my fault. It's out. It's out, aunt Qian came out. Xuewen, we are good friends. Don't take this angry In any case, I like Yuanyuan. It's too late. Congratulations to both lords. It's out, it's out, it's out. It's out, it's out. Fellow villagers, On this big day I hope you can find The Hang's family has a As clean as a whistle. Congratulations. Miss Jiang come up. Miss Jiang. When are you going to No wedding! Yuanyuan No wedding. I'm innocent, but Jiang's family break off the Yeah, how did that happen? Why did they break off Dad, I, dad supports you. Dad supports you. Alright, alright, alright. Alright, alright. You'd better say something. Our Hang's family has For no reason at all, let the Jiang Xuewen, this I'm afraid there's Dad, try again. Why don't I talk to his wife? You're all wrong. Yuanyuan has the final She's bigger than her father. She's bigger than She consented to the It shows that she You don't know her very well. From the moment she She had already decided Well, why would she want a test? In that case. Just say you're To say not to get Don't marry after the test, she takes It was one breath In the final analysis is to make our Hang's family embarrassed. Isn't this embarrassing It had nothing to do I don't think we did it wrong. No family wants to marry a broken daughter-in-law. Didn't you object to it? There's no point in Don't marry, don't that our Hang's family will not Marry that Jiang Jiayuan. Then I have a It's just as well not to marry. Son, are you sure I really believe she is like me. Yuanyuan. Yuanyuan. Hang Jingfeng, I hate If I'm being bullied. Aren't you going to marry me? I said, whatever the You accept it What You hesitate, hesitate. You think about it and Eighteen years of friendship. In a half hour of hesitation. Ruined by you! If you have no doubt. If you keep believing me. Even if you have doubts. You can ask me in private first. I'll all thank you. But you didn't. You're just as You're afraid I'm not perfect. I, I'm really not perfect? If I break a virgin If you really love me. How can you not love me? How can you not love me? You said, to be good Yuanyuan, I was wrong. I hate you Please forgive me. I hate you, Yuanyuan, Yuanyuan. Let's start over. Leave everyone else alone. Just both of us start over. Love each other for a lifetime. It's impossible, hesitating eyes in a moment. You hurt me completely. Yuanyuan. Well, go outside and What if you get I wish dead. You can't say that. If your parents hear. Won't you afraid they'll be sad? I'm talking about Hang Jingfeng. He stayed in the Better go home Don't say that. If only it were that good. Actually, Miss, you still He is not worth Why I was so hard on him that he Not only did he not dare. When I ask him whether he Why not? You want him say yes Can you believe? Think it over before he promise. This is true that he It should not be If he loves me, he should To love me is to Are you? Shoulder can not pick, And can't do the thick You only eat when you get into You can't go to the hall, Big mistake continuously, There is no excuse for that. You think people like you. If they all like you. There will be no watching Am I really that bad? In the eyes of others is Jiang Xuewen's daughter. But I am really good Are you? If you're Just go easy on him. Maybe you're not that excited How's my son? He's so sick It was and caused by the false fire. He's been burning for days I've had several Keep burning like this, His brain will burn out. Don't stop the medicine, According to his pulse I'll adjust the dose again. Jingfeng, wake up, Yuanyuan, forgive me, Yuanyuan. All blame Jiang What if there was I fought you! How's it going? He did not respond to the call. His whole mind was Yuanyuan, I was wrong, Yuanyuan. What do you suggest we do? What do you want? A thousand mistakes were made were made wrong by Why bother doing this to my son? You'd better say something. Mrs Hang. You and I are mothers. My son has been in bed coma for several days. He didn't eat or drink My heart is breaking. Yeah. We're all parents, learn When you humiliate Yuanyuan. How we feel in our hearts? I told you, we were wrong. Jingfeng's father, what's Xuewen older siblings That's what you're Now my son Jingfeng This marriage can But I hope you can keep it up. Please ask Yuanyuan Let's go and see Jingfeng. I, I have only one son. Jiangfu. Lord Get the engine The young lady has just gone out to visit Master Why isn't it moving? I take it, yes. Out for food. Have food, Yuanyuan. Yuanyuan What are you It seems like seeing the Eat or not? My hands are sore. Don't eat? I'm leaving. Yuanyuan, Yuanyuan, Yuanyuan. Yuanyuan You've got that in mind I hold you up when you fall. When I fall, you step on me. I won't Never again. Sure! I won't fall down again I also won't give others Please forgive me this time. Sit down and have your porridge. Come on, don't eat, come on. You make a fire, you Master Jingfeng wants Two more stir-fry dishes. He has appetite No wonder you're Miss Jiayuan will Get me a bowl I want to eat here little lady, little lady. Get out if you have I know that you don't like me. But I consider you a friend. You're a nice guy, hardworking I feel comfortable You don't sell people out. Whether you take me There is one thing Like Jiang Jiayuan Look, you helped But then she forgot everything. Don't worry, I'm Would you like to try the soup? It is the private Dad, you haven't rested. You go to Hang's family. Is Jingfeng feeling better? It's all right, he's better. There's nothing wrong with Just spend time with him. Yuanyuan, you. I know I'm not good. I can't bear I'm not asking you to keep up. Just you think carefully. You must think clearly. I can't think clearly. Jingfeng for me, he is nice. It's not Jingfeng. I have known Hang's I didn't think there was Jingfeng is fine Look at Pathetic and unreasonable. Dad is worried that you will be Can I not marry? If therefore do not marry, dad Then I won't marry. I, rely on dad's Mom and dad always have to go. After a hundred years That let us leave, Dad Marry, marry, marry. I hope Jingfeng has kindness. He shall not be I don't want to get Why is there no rush now? This incident really I didn't think people could Yeah But I didn't expect. Xuhen is a nice guy. Sure he is I told you so You All right, you marry later then. The both families want Have a happy day. It takes a while, I'll It's up to you Well. I'll pretend to and attract the bandit You and Fulai press Then, we can go out. There are so many You find a place and hide there I make some noises to draw them away. Then, you escape in the mess. I should attract them. You lead them to escape. Why, it must be me. It's your turn for night watch? Yes, my turn. No wonder I can't find you. I took some wine Let's drink it Come, Listen, another one has come. Then ask your servants Let's start. Young Mistress, what's wrong? It hurts Somebody Hello? Come on My belly, my belly. Help, she's dying. Come and see Stop She's dying! Look. Nonsense! Stay where you are. Come and see. Here, here. Come on, somebody come here. Let's take her out or others can't fall asleep. Come on, she's dying Look. Come on, come in, She's dying. I'm dying. Young Mistress, look. Sorry. Sister. You are... You don't remember me? I'm Erhu. Don't you remember me? Erhu Yes, it's me, sister. I recognized you at but I dared not to do anything I've been waiting Now, many people are asleep and I've got the key to Let's escape. - Ok Go - Go, come on. Come on, come on Young Mistress. Go. This way, this way. Sister there are four I'll go first and Then you nab them from behind. No problem Ok. That is the stable. Take the horses out and we'll escape together Ok. Ok I'll go now. Where's everyone? Who's on duty tonight? It's us. Tudan Come on, come here. Patriarch asked me to Command? What command? Come on, closer, closer. Patriarch said. Take the horses Take the horses? Where are you going? How could it be? We're discovered. Surrender. Wang Erhu how did I treat you after you came to my fortress? You treated me like your son. Then why did you betray me? You released the How much did they promise you? Patriarch they didn't give me a penny. I just wanted to Because this sister and she had saved all my family. Now she's in distress I can't look on indifferently. You knew each other before? When I was begging in Jingyang this sister gave Then, my mother I buried them with the help of this sister. Patriarch. Erhu pays a debt of he'll feel deeply Please forgive him. It's none of your business. Brother, Wang Erhu released He should be killed Wang Erhu, do you Patriarch, I breached your order it was my fault. But I don't regret. Why? You taught me that money is nothing, but I was paying my Even if it was wrong. I should have done it Brother stop talking with him. Kill him directly. Freeze. Bro Niu, are you Put down your swords. Bro Niu it happed for a good reason. Wang Erhu was paying I'd like to keep his life. Since you said this. I have no other comments. Wang Erhu breached my order and He shall be put in It was caused by I will take no money All we get will be Well done, Brother I'm convinced. I'll follow you forever. Bro Niu, tell me what Brother leave this maid to me. The valuable one is that woman. I won't touch her, But this maid, leave her to me. Ok Thank you, brother. Little maid, come Put down your sword. If you dare to hurt my brother. I'll tear you into pieces. Han Sanchun, I know you're But Zhou Ying the busker is not as weak as you think. At least. I'm sure I can kill Just a maid. Is she worthy of She tried to save me at the I should repay her with my life. Good. Han Sanchun if you want to save your brother you'd better ask him Brother. Bro Niu don't die for a woman. Ok, I won't move. You put down the sword. Take them to the dungeon. Go. Come in. Quick Sister, sorry. I didn't lead you out. Don't say that. I got you into trouble. After all. I got all of you into trouble. Young Mistress, you didn't. Young Mistress, we Actually I You're not included. Oh I didn't ask you. Why are you here? After I buried my I met a fellow-townsman. He took me here. No wonder Wu Pin You tried to find me? Yeah. Sister, you are Come here. Tell me what kind of person Patriarch. Patriarch is a good It's so boring. I'd like Miss They'll relieve guard soon. Do you think we have a chance? It's useless You'd to buy you after I go back. Your family didn't send the ransom Take it easy I think the silver If the ransom isn't in place before the sunset tomorrow. I'll kill you all. Patriarch. I heard you kidnapped Young Master and you got 1,000 which was used up soon. This time, you kidnap us. You can get several I think it can support What's your plan After this half year? Don't worry. I'll kidnap someone else. They say you do such I think your cost is high. What do you mean? I do my business with two or three Your business needs at least 100 I give some wage to my clerks. You have to treat your persons with good food and drink. When you make some money, you My business, once succeed can continue again. But you have to change a The most important we just lose some money, But if your business fails you will lose your life. You'll have no Surprising. You understand our In my opinion your business looks easy actually, you're exchanging Why? You want me to give In my eyes. Selling salt or tea is business. Loot and robbery I'm just advising Change business? Actually, what you do is not only at the There is another thing lost. What? Conscience. Conscience? It's nothing. You were a soldier and fought with the government. It's said you were very famous and got a title of Hero Han. After the war your You and your bros became and joined Sanshou Clique. Who told you these? It doesn't matter. But I regret for you. You are a hero with Even if you can't you can do something You're disloyal because You're unjust because You're unaware of the high cost. You're disloyal, unjust You know nothing. I tell you what loyalty is. Loyalty is we did What justice is justice is we used to promote the officers. At last they were promoted With an order we were dismissed and My bros fought through so many wars died on the way home because of cold, starvation and illness. Don't talk about Only if my bros have food. I have conscience. Don't talk about loyalty too. Only if I can survive. I am loyal to myself. He got terribly angry. It means what I said went straight to his heart. Come on, come on Big or small Small, small. Patriarch, come and - Come. - Come. Right! Let's play together. Come on, make a seat. - Make a seat to the Patriarch. Gamble! Gamble! Always gambling. You'll lose your do you know? Can you live a life by gambling? Look at you You annoyed Get away! Brother. What happened? Anyone annoyed you? Tell me I'll kill him. No one annoyed me. I just thought that we couldn't live Gambling and drinking till we lose our lives without realizing Brother life is short, Why do you think so much? Bro Niu have you thought The Future? The same as today. You want to be a Brother as long as you not to say a whole life. I'll follow you Dismissed, dismissed. - Dismissed Dismissed - Go, go, go. Bro Niu. Have you leaked No I didn't say anything. Why did Han Sanchun Brother. Brother. A message from the outside? What does it say? Release Shen Xingyi Release? Yes What if Han Replace the guards with our people. Do it secretly Ok. When the soldiers come we'll kill Han Sanchun's people and the widow together. Ok. I'll arrange it now. What does a woman know? How could they let What if the What will happen to Zhao State? Now, the alliance Our survival is more important. The King brought two What happens if the Handan All these are empty talks! This won't do and that won't do. Give me a feasible idea, ok? My lady, I think we've been too hasty to let a Lady-in-waiting I wanted it to be hasty. The more If we let men handle We can't risk losing. But it's different for women. If we succeed, then all is well. If we fail, it's only a woman's Hence after this, whether you want to negotiate or go to war, it's up to you. She's always like this. She does things without Please invite the King of May I ask why the envoy Firstly, to seek alliance. Secondly, to propose a marriage. Since the envoy of the Wei why do you need to bring that Qin and Zhao are at war and the borders are dangerous. They are here to escort to ensure my safety. What a coincidence. My King is here at Mount Mafu. Firstly, for the Secondly, to Qin and Zhao are in a standoff. Everyone knows that. Zhao State is in dire straits. The granary is probably Otherwise, why seek help from Wei State? Take a look at what those are. - This... - This is... That is Zhao Our secret weapon With it, Changping's two hundred can continue to Handan reinforcements The envoy of the Wei State only How can you deal with the Zhao Don't forget that it is the Zhao State requesting Zhao State is and in dire need The King of Wei remains indifferent How would people As soon as the Qin army and takes over our they'll establish a bigger force to command all the At that time, the Wei State will also be reduced to Forming an alliance is for the benefit If the envoy of the Wei State the alliance can Will you honor your words? His Majesty and Her I shall lose my life if any of my words are not true. Envoy of Wei State, Let's go. How did it turn out like this? This... I really Your Majesty, if you continue Reporting! Your Majesty, the Wei people have Excellent. Your Majesty, there's still a But compared to the that Crown Prince of Chu That Wei State just left I'm here to see your Princess. Why did they send a May I ask the Crown What is your purpose I fell in love with your I would like to marry Then why did Crown Prince deploy Your King of Zhao State personally I came to offer but he dishonored his own words. Would I have any Crown Prince, please take a Hold that side up! Yes! Hurry! Quickly! Good! Good! Good...! Such simple trickery may have fooled the Wei envoy, but will it be able to fool me? This ploy can only The Crown Prince of Chu That's right. Look at the Chu soldiers Her strategy will bring calamity When the Wei people left, we should've married the As the princess of Zhao State, That's right. I already said, you can use this trick The affairs of the state In the end, you still need me Hand over the princess now. I don't want to see Quick, call your I'm being bold, but will Crown Prince The state of Chu has a vast and bears several Why would such a strong Crown Prince dissents to the Are you going to await doom by waiting for the Qin State I'm not interested Tell your princess Back then, Bai Qi led tens of thousands of One battle took Yan, Ying. The next battle took Yiling. The third battle destroyed the and disgraced past Bodies were strewn everywhere and Has the Crown Prince completely from such a huge bloodshed? You... How dare you! Crown Prince is a master and will be the future Naturally, the Princess and is willing to form But if the Princess Wei State will definitely fly and if Qin State the people's blood The best strategy at present is for Zhao State to decline the It's the only way to break up The Princess is She'd rather sacrifice than enter a marriage The painstaking can the Crown Prince Is this the intention The princess said that if Crown Prince she would rather jump to end this marriage She doesn't wish to implicate her Dare I ask the Crown The Princess is wise, kind and understands For the safety of her country, she would rather renounce a Yet the Crown put his people at risk for The swallows soar into the sky; Their wings are The maiden is married off I escort her to the roadside I look far ahead till I My tears fall continuously The swallows soar into the sky; Their postures go up and down. The maiden is married off I escort her a long way and I look far ahead till I I stand there for a long time The swallows soar into the sky; Softly and loudly, The maiden is married off I escort her far into the south. I look far ahead till I My heart is in deep Crown Prince is so affectionate. Ya'er has no way to repay back. I can only use this poem as a gift to my soul mate. And wish the Crown Prince I bid farewell to you. Let's go. But I'm still clueless. Who thought of this scamming trickery? Haolan, explain To answer Your Majesty, the King of Wei sought personal Seeing our ample provisions The Crown Prince of Chu fell in but he is young Seeing Princess loving him too, but was willing to sacrifice her love he was naturally very moved. The Crown Prince of Chu If he had a chance he would've been So while he was thinking, I recited the poem as a farewell to wipe off his last suspicion. When I was young, I heard a legend During the 10th year the lords from thirteen states The King of Biyang, Yun withdrew more than a Furthermore, as a tiny state, Biyang fought hard and battled the combined It was really admirable. Frankly, for today, the The second hurdle, we The third hurdle it wasn't me who touched the It was the Princess who showed her To sacrifice love for Instead of being moved by Ya'er, he was actually moved by his own high sentiments. But in two years, when he and is less passionate I fear that this strategy We may talk it later. This ingenious ploy of deception must be... The Queen's idea. Sister Ya is gorgeous They're like a pair blooming together This is our Zhao State's Well said. Congratulations, Your Majesty! Congratulations, Your Majesty! Older Sister Haolan... Older Sister Haolan, Prince Jiao gathered and their whereabouts Princess, please save Royal Lyu Buwei, you won't be able to escape. The King and ministers by the states of They have no time You already planned You only need to know that if you don't obey, I will kill you. Where's Haolan? Haolan has her own destination. You are abandoning her? It's worth sacrificing her for you. I don't need a woman to sacrifice her life in Royal Descendant, You are a royal The Qin State retreated Consort Xia is to return to the Qin State. Are you going to give to return because of a woman? There's nothing more important than you returning Please don't forget because of Haolan. Lyu Buwei... Royal Descendant, I have known Haolan longer and better than you. Nothing will happen to her. Did you really feel no guilt when you said those words? Lyu Buwei, we are partners in weal and woe. Remember what you promised me. Do not abandon me at any time. I trust you. For the bigger cause, there's nothing Hurry! Leave quickly! Get off the carriage. Prince, oh Prince. It has been so chaotic, yet you still took notice of us. I really admire you. Prince, they are They want to escape! General Gongsun, Royal Father Yet you're running You are devoted to Tie them up and bring them to Why would I escape? Older Brother. Where are you Royal Descendant of I'm bringing him and Lyu I asked Royal Descendant to Treasurer Lyu was merely How could it be Ya'er, you are still speaking Do you know he was escaping while you It's precisely because the Wei that I've asked Treasurer It's my fault to cause such a big Princess! General Gongsun, why are you also tied up? I forgot. If the hostage escaped, you will be punished as well. That's true. I will Princess, save me. Princess! I'm being falsely accused. I was just accompanying Royal How did it become a My hands are bruised Ya'er, you are still helping Prince, if I really wanted to escape why would I bring He couldn't possibly have been That's right. This is A misunderstanding! Prince, please release us. Whether it's a Royal Father will Let's go. Wait. Earlier, when I was confronting where were you, Older Brother? Could it be, in your eyes, capturing the Qin State hostage is more important than Ya'er... If Royal just for capturing the you even didn't care Tell me, what would The Royal Descendant of Royal Father will But I just garnered a big merit in front of Royal Father. Tell me... Would he Older Brother, don't forget that I'm the only one in the palace who's the biological Ya'er. Ever since the painting I started to be suspicious. Even if the Qin how could that painting There's only one possibility. Someone is preparing to and escape from the Zhao State! Do you know that the Royal Descendant He even made you Is this worth it for a man who has never loved you? It's worth it. As the princess of Zhao release them immediately. Release them! Thank you, Princess, You're not the one I was saving. I'm not the one you If Li Haolan didn't you would have harmed Haolan? Seems like Haolan Come to think of it, if Li Haolan hadn't why would she exaggerate and even delayed matters in to help you two Lyu Buwei, you have You should know, in this world, you are Older Brother, what No matter how, I You clearly knew that you Why did you still help Older Brother. Don't you already know why? I understand now. What do you understand, Gao Jie! Hurry and - Hurry and run! Go! Stop, stop! Please stop! Hey, what's that? Let's get closer. Okay. It's her? The locals have a They kidnapped someone from Looks like we can't leave here. Not to mention finding Good thing I have a connection. I can get you out when we They want to hand me over. - Are you awake? What are you doing? What Furthermore, how can you treat the Do you still want Aren't you going to See, it's a bad idea. Just what do you want? If I wanted to do would you still be standing here Believe it or not. As long as we are unable to get out of In addition, you only overheard half We still have a plan. If we go through this rainforest, We'll stay the night here. We can reach the town Really? If you're willing to believe If you're not willing, You must know that only a good for them. I am doing Also, don't play with this It's safest with me. Oh, right. Do you need my help There's no need. - I can just hold it. We haven't got much clean water or Hey, Miss, do you want some? Here. I don't drink alcohol. There are no drunkards Drinking a little can at least help Does your defensive mentality You won't allow us to its socket or drink beer It's fine if you don't want When the time comes, can't walk because No one's going to carry you. Can you help me What? You're not worried about To get out of this rainforest, Then, you should It's going to hurt a lot later. You should numb yourself first. Hai Feng Bookstore? Do you also know about It's an old bookstore in From the same hometown. All right. Try moving it around. It still hurts a little, You can't waste Here. Cheers to your courage. Cheers. How can such strong alcohol For the rest of the way, Give me your hand. Let me tell you some good It is the Tree of That we can still see it is clearly an Jocelyn. Jocelyn. I will definitely get What is it? It's for you. Thank Are you thinking of How about this? You can consider going on a date or having dinner We're already like this. You I can see on you the fire and Fine. Let's keep going forward. There are more places ahead Why aren't you coming down? There are no pythons Come down and clean up! As If it was someone But after all that has happened, Why aren't you coming down? There aren't any pythons or piranhas. You can come down to clean If it were someone but after all that has happened, I trust you a hundred percent. It seems that I have to accept I would be too embarrassed to do I can only treat James? What exactly do you do? Why are you so knowledgeable? You can think of me as an expert When I find a new From what I heard from you risked your to find rubies? Could has something to do with jewels? Can we not talk about our jobs? I'm almost done. You I'll... I'll step Don't worry. Hey! Hey! Wait! You... You'll be nearby, right? As long... as you're making a move after up, I'll be around Be careful on your way up. I helped you fix your dislocation as Thank you... for saving me. Compared to the first very different. Can I consider that as Don't think about using a How about if we talk about Let's go on a date or Jocelyn? Why aren't If you don't say anything, Jocelyn? Did you get scared If you still don't say Jocelyn! What's wrong, Jocelyn? Why didn't you tell Sorry. I became a burden for you. We wasted another day. What are you saying? The most important thing right but all my medicines If you don't take a it'll be hard for And the temperatures plus those changes happen I really can't move anymore and this trail is If you take me along, And I'm afraid you won't - How about... You know I won't agree. You need to get help. Find people to rescue me. You shouldn't waste Then let's do this. I'll leave the can here. To walk out If nothing goes wrong, I'll find No. It's already the last can. You need energy. Don't worry. I'll However... I need a lucky kiss. All right, I was just joking. Having looked Yet the tale has I don't know with whom I will spend You must come back safely. I'll wait for you. As the passing gust lingers Blowing away my umbrella It's all because of you Okay. I wait time and again Right here Meeting you Brings me my everything All the The nurturing that has Meeting you Gives you everything I own In life The purpose of this It's just to meet you James, you must Jocelyn, wait for me. I'm afraid that I won't be During this protracted Love is always several I've been looking Fearful that I As long as I keep my Regardless what transpires Time knows the best that I About loving you Meeting you Brings me my everything All the The nurturing that has Meeting you Gives you everything I own In life, the purpose of this Tingchen. Young Master Zhou, Don't embarrass our Yuwan. I'm here just for you. Would you like to come with me. Bastard. In broad daylight how dare you come to my You are lawless. I will Yuwan. The Du family You can't marry Why are you still Why can't you spare my daughter. Yuwan. If you ruin yourself what's the point of my life with Are you still willing to run No. You. Tingchen. It's you who forced Even if it is a very bad I can only jump down. No, I will protect you myself and I will not let Yuwan, if you dare you can think that Mom Yuwan. Come with me. Too late. Tingchen, love is like flowing water and the water that falls on You're a step late and you missed my life. As long as you haven't it's not too late. What about the What about the reputation What about your and my Have you really You marry Du Yuntang, and you Yuwan, you can't regret it I kneel down for you. Mom. Mom. Yuwan Do you want to force your mother to death? Zhou Tingchen, you have Me too. I, Tong Yuwan, walked out and I can only be Du You and I can only wait for the next life. In the next life, you will and I will no longer be so that we can be together and love each other well. The next life is too I want you to Master Zhou, please don't Farewell today never meet. Yuwan. Since you have decided then I will protect Don't shoot. Don't All the villains, listen to me. Today, Zhou Tingchen is If anyone dares to make Yuwan, you are the I have ever seen. Miss, the Du family is still a first-class How come they don't even know Not even a single I ask you, where is the Why hasn't he come Our young master. He, he went to the toilet he'll be here soon. Going to the toilet You lied to me. If you don't tell I will let you bear the He doesn't go to the toilet. He, he is constipated. I don't know anyway. - Say or not? Where is your young master? He, he, he's gone. Madam is looking for him. Sister, be gentle, Miss, what to do. It must be the young master of the Du Qingping. Actually I didn't really when I was at Mrs. Jin's house. But then I was infected by your steadfastness I'm really tempted for you. Our Du family is like a big sauce jar and none of the and pure. Maybe you were right not to marry me. This way you can keep yourself clean and pure, forever. You stay in my heart like an angel. Growing up, my with lots and lots of toys but they never asked This doll is a little ugly but it was made I can feel her heart. And it's my favorite too. I will leave it here it means that I am I hope you will like it too. I am human, I have dignity. If I lose my freedom, Qingping. Tong Yuwan, release Qingping, your spirit in the sky must watch me carefully that how I get justice for you. Miss, what should we do? Start the car. Let's go. Although I understand you, miss. This Master Du But we can't go back. I'm not going back Let's circle until someone comes Hope you like the You should like How did this bracelet Send this letter to Zhou Tingchen. Is that letter of mine also in your hand? Yes. Miss. I can tell at a glance your heels and feet don't match so both ends suffer. Come. Don't worry. This is just the beginning I will take good care of you during the following process. Ok. Come in. Sir, happy wedding. What? This is the Du family. She is the young lady, You are the servant Do you remember it clearly? Yes. Young master. The young lady has been Go out. Good looking. It's a pity you happen to be Drink. I let you drink. Drink. I still remember clearly what Qingping looked How can you live Who Second brother. It's me. Brother. Yuntang, I think we how about we go and Okay, let's go play Wait a moment. Are you leaving? This is the love letter the night before your wedding. I didn't take it out It's already a face for you and Do you still want Why do you control me. Cuier, go back to That's what you said. Second Young Mistress, Miss, if Mr. Du how will you face your mother-in-law If someone says that and that you lost your then you can't get The wise man knows Forget it, let's not You haven't eaten for a day I'll go get you Suxi. Everyone in this you must be more careful you know? Hello. Eldest young master. You're the bride's dowry maid. What is this for. My miss hasn't eaten yet so I'll bring her some The miss is knowledgeable, It's a pity that Yuntang so naturally he It just so happens that my There is a vacant seat. Do you want to come? Eldest young master. Please be Kneel down Got my Yunwei. She is the subordinate of the Don't overdo it. Suxi. Stand up. Come with me. Young mistress. Thanks. It's no wonder you are new here you don't know that the Du family Tomorrow, when the new it will inevitably Young mistress. It's not right for me to gossip with you here. Young Mistress, please If our young lady does something Mr. Du will embarrass her again. Right. Since your young lady and my sister are classmates I will teach her. Please come in. - Miss, the eldest young mistress is here. Sister-in-law, is It's also my fault that that Yuntang is a demon He is cunning. If he wants to torture anyone he can come up with a thousand and It's like his mother. With a smile on his face it's really hard By the way, do you know why Why. Back then, his mother my mother-in-law gave so she bribed the midwife to strangle the sister to death. God, so vicious. Right. After this is revealed, the Yuntang agreed to marry you in exchange for It turns out that marriage is just a trading Now, I'm not afraid Sister-in-law, get My mother-in-law has no status at At that time, the master because of the mutual But she didn't expect to be Tomorrow you have to give but don't give tea As long as you have a cold she will feel more comfortable. Then we will have a Otherwise, I don't know how she wants to deal with us. Sister in law, then you tell me what should I do? I tell you. When you serve tea I just got new information that. Shen Zhipei's subordinates have mutinied because they owe the military salaries In addition the navy has blocked the Would you say that. Shen Zhipei will fall Shen Zhipei is a despotic person who can't be easily overthrown, is probably his opponent. Now the naval mutiny we must take a long-term view. The most important thing now is when will the one million that Min Ru carry to Mr. Sun Yat-sen. But Min Ru has gone to the mouth It's impossible to hold it back. But it's okay, I'll help her. Tomorrow morning let's give the a head-on blow. It is said that Miss Even father-in-law I'm afraid she What does it matter Let's take her down cleanly before she has a firm footing. What's the use of Yuntang is the heir. If there is no strong handle the Du family is still his. Look at it. Look at this. So Yuntang spent a Sooner or later, she will fail because of Master Yuntang hasn't come Leave him alone. Didn't I tell you to wait for me while I went to the greenhouse? Tell them I was I will never tell a lie. You can't tell a lie, really. Dad -Father Mom -Mother. We're here to pay our respects. Ok, ok, come on Thank you, father. Father. This gold pocket watch tells the time with music. It has a gold and a diamond clip that can be clipped You're welcome. Your Thank them for me. Father, you're welcome. Mother. This hairpin was made by the artisan who was the best at tian-tsui in One was kept by the and the other was It means sisters Hope you like it. This gift from Yuntang's wife is really a rare Stand up, stand up The Tong family used to The gifts you give are good. Sister, you are so lucky. You have such a noble sensible and dutiful Yes, Yuntang. You have such a It's time for you Father, please have tea Ok. Good luck Thank you, father. Mother, please have tea Ok. Stand up Thank you, mother. Du Yuntang told me Then I have to do it Brother, please have tea. Tong Yuwan. Have I offended you. I don't deserve your tea? I know. There must be a Someone behind you must have dismissed Well, master You should help me. Ok, stop, stop. This is not for I'll deal with that. Since the new guy Then let her kneel Mother I did it because my What's wrong with me? not to make tea I can't do such a My lady, don't speak It's you. This is for you. It's to meddle in the affairs This is for your lady. She was infidelity She was still absent-minded and made a big mistake. You deserve to be beaten. Are you afraid to I admit it was my fault to Mrs. Du. Sorry, Mrs. Du. But sister. Suxi is my dowry maid. I'm the only one who has It is beneath you to slap her twice just now. I hope you can And you said that I lost Is there any evidence. If you don't have You have to apologize to me. Is it necessary to apologize. On the wedding night You must lose your Yuntang, what happened. You didn't have sex last night. Mom, do you think I I slept in last night I slept in my bridal But I don't know about if she lost her virginity. I know she did elope before marriage. No, that's not what happened. That's not what happened. That's really not the case. Can you tell me what You. Du Yuntang, you play word games. It's plausible. Why did you wrong me. Yuwan was wronged. She is my daughter-in-law. I know her innocence best. If anyone ever talks he will be against me. Yes. So boring. I'll go first. Mom, the daughter-in-law is in your charge here. You must teach her to be as sister-in-law. It's over. I'm leaving. Master, sister, I'll Mother, thank you You humiliated me today I'm not trying to save you. I'm trying to save my face I don't understand how your parents raised you. Come on, stand up. Father Yuwan. In fact, I really You were very gracious when you argued in court. You said what you needed to say. I liked you even then what you think of this family. Father, can I tell It was not a home at all but a deceitful court. Though the exterior was new the interior was That's what I like This is a fact. I just kept my mouth shut on purpose. I've been exposed to this rot for years I've been trying to change it. But I can't. So I hope you can do me a favor. Help me change this family. I Father, thank you But I don't know what to do I mean you tell them what kindness is tell them what tolerance is. Father. Do you trust me to do that. Trust is not given to you. You have to earn people's trust with your actions. But I have faith in you I'm sure one day soon you'll earn my trust of the entire Du family. Right. You still want me I put up with you because you are I don't want to But I wish you would stop trying on you by dishonorable means. Do I care if you As long as you don't The legal wife will endlessly conceive your virginity. You'll be despised by Don't talk to me about everyone I just want to know why are you targeting me. In this home wife and concubine As soon as we got married we were divided I've never been Xinger. Everyone in this family wants to kill each other. Miss, I'm starting to regret it. What do you regret. If I had known, I should have supported you to at all costs. I think what is really terrible is not the sister-in-law who but Du Yuntang who smiles and pushes me to hell. He is the real devil. Dad, you are looking for me. Yes, I want to see you. Dad, what do you want to do. You know exactly what I mean. Say, what did you do you. What did I do Don't Tong Yuwan, since you have you should treat her well. Dad I never thought You forced me to and marry her. I Well, even if I force But she is innocent. You have nothing against her. Why did you mistreat her. I was gentle with her I know. Did she tell you Of course not. She's much more than you are. At least she won't speak ill And she's not gonna snitch. Is she above board. Dad, have you forgotten what the women of noble families do for a living. They intrigue Don't forget that Yuntang. You're getting more I -It's you I'm your father. Don't you listen to what I say. I've met a lot of people. I can tell you for sure. Tong Yuwan is a woman you can absolutely trust. Time reveals a man's heart. The least you can do is give her a chance Ok, I promise you. She's gonna hit rock I'll see if she can keep her What did you say. No, I said nothing. Sister, why are you at cards today. Are you deliberately letting because she's too high-born. I'm afraid Master Yuwan wants to go back to her room to paint. You talk too much. You don't get to say anything. Punish her with the Madam, I'm wronged. Madam, I. Stand up. Madam, I'm wrong. Wrong? Have you been wronged. I'll arrange for you to serve in the Master Yuwan's room. How did the white get into someone else's hands. Who told you to do that. Who told you to do that. Sister, I didn't do that No. I'm acting stupid I don't want my son to suffer. But what's going that makes me Yuntang didn't stay at You think I don't know. I tell you. I didn't want it to get out that Yuntang was out all night. I'll spare you today. Get out. Yes. Take her away Yes. Mother, you know everything. Of course I know everything. This is the fight between women of high rank. Just like mahjong if you play a wrong card it will help others. What about yourself. You will fail. I understand. Mother, please clear my name. How am I supposed When you have sex with Yuntang he will prove your innocence. He will vindicate Miss. How could Master He has no humanity. I really don't The lady let you have sex. But Master Yuntang So what should we do. Suxi, go back first. You want to make a deal with me. Why are you so awkward. Say. Du Yuntang, I can give you the freedom to and be wild and ridiculous. In exchange please explain to them that I'm innocent. I didn't have sex with you how could I know you're innocent. Du Yuntang, you Do you have human dignity. You're a demon What I'm a devil I think your writing So I want to hear you recite your love letter so that I can relive Maybe that way. I can explain it to your family. It was an unforgettable miss. It can't be used as No matter what happens. I won't give you a I can give you one more chance. If you're willing to admit that you are not worthy to be the I can set you free. Du Yuntang. You saved your mother's so you could smear me. You force me to divorce in Right. But the cost of my divorce was not just my own reputation but all of my parents' dignity I can't do it at all. Du Yuntang. You try your best You just want to Are you a man. How many men have Isn't that only Zhou Tingchen. I've met a man in my life. I'm satisfied. A real man asks you to run away alone. He dumped you. And you wrote him You are stupid very stupid. Du Yuntang, you are too much. Just cry. I love to see you cry. You need to wash Why? Do you have a servant Aren't you a servant? I am the personal taking care of her daily life. Du's daughter-in-law Not to mention you. If you don't I will tell Mrs. Du to Okay! I'll wash them. Suxi, what are you... Who assigned it to you? Excuse me, in the family of Du. Is there a clear Second Young Mistress. Su xi contradicted Punish her by washing Why haven't I heard of it? I'll go and ask for it. Second Young Mistress. You don't believe me? I am the personal I've been here You didn't trust me Lady. That's of no importance I will finish it soon. You are sensible. Your lady is not a princess anymore. Mother-in-law doesn't like her She is the most notorious pet Bastard. You're talking nonsense! That's all, Su xi. Not suitable for reasoning. I can't leave you alone. Let me help you washing. Lady Never mind. Stop doing that, Lady. If your parents they'll feel sorry for you. When we get home, Su xi don't let my parents Let me help you washing. Take some exercise. What's wrong with you, Why are you so hot? Do you have a fever? Why didn't you tell me? Don't make a sound I'll be quarantined if I I can't leave you at this time. Su xi. Second Young Master, There is something wrong You prick don't say Then what about sweet Well The Sack Stock has tripled We made Y=13, 0345. Stop, stop, stop. It The price of Sack Stocks soared representing Chinese were controlled by foreigners. Another one Bad news. I dreamed that the Second The First mistress scolded her. The bookcase of the Second Young The Second Young Lady froze her The Second Young Lady had been scalded her hands. - The Second Young Lady... I'm glad to hear that. Don 't mention her About others? Su xi, the personal servant She was tortured Her face likes a red It's so pathetic. Do you fall in love Second Young Master Lie? When did you start to lie? Don't hit me, I learned from you. When I talked about being bullied. There's something But what you said is you are tired of her. Aren't you lying to yourself? Is it a lie? To my eyes. She's not hit back now. She is not like she was. She used to be never get ruffled. She's not hit back I'm Tingchen Tingchen You're hurt. Tingchen Tingchen. Just now I heard someone called Lover's names when she was dreaming. Is that you? My dear wife. So pathetic. Don't I even have the freedom to talk in my sleep? As the woman of the Du family only when you go back you have a little Are you willing to make a deal with me. What do you mean? Just say it. Stop talking in riddles. Su xi, your serving I know. So what? I heard you treat her as sister. In Du's family as a servant. She can't use modern medicine I can buy her medicine with my dowry. Don't forget and everything belongs so you can't spend every penny. Have you gone too Let go of me. Let go of me. A heartless devil. Are you willing to exchange the medicine Are you willing? Second Young lady, the Rong Ma, Please I'll go with her for a moment Okay. Good morning, Mother-in-law. Yuntang, Yuwan Yuwan. It is a big day tomorrow. The You need to prepare for it. About your life you know how to talk You are a lady from knowing what not to say. Mom, she just told me. She didn't want to go home. I didn't. You forgot what Yes, I want to adapt to the I don't visit my Okay! You and your husband have kept a little secret Well. After a while I'll You have something to You'll be back a few days later. Thank you very much. Another thing, the master is going You are good at And you have spare time You can write two thousand words of the Two thousand? Yes. Too much? Then let your You don't have to do it. Painting is her hobby, mom. For something she likes she has spared no pains. Two thousand words, Yuntang, you go out first. I'll talk to your wife. Yuwan. Have you considered why he was so abrupt with you? Do you reflect Have you considered how to catch your husband. I have to let everything Why did we make you For what? Let everything Just the huge size of Shanghai. Can't we find one a lady from a well-bred family, That is what I want to ask Why did you seek a Because Lord choose Yuwan, His father hopes you to keep him But do you really manage to do? If you keep drifting do you feel sorry But affection can't This is the family of Du parading and shouting slogans. This is the family of Du. Fighting with each other As a woman without husband's favor is inferior to the But I can hardly do it. That's because your that your father Your life is very simple. You are the only spoiled and become innocent. If you keep harmless your life will be I know, I know. Keep in mind, a wise man submits to fate. Su xi. How are you, Su xi? Don't move. Keep lying down. Give me. What? We have a deal. I promise not to go and you will buy Su xi medicine. Hurry to buy it I Second Young Lady. Act first and report later. Get up and take Be careful. Take the medicine. Lie down slowly. Get some sleep. Tuck in. You may be well after sweating. Do you know how to apologize? If I don't want to apologize are you going to Please let me know what my mother I'm sorry. The deal excludes delivering massages. I won't tell you, Mr. Du. What's wrong? What's wrong? Has your hand recovered? Take back your crocodile tears. I don't care. My pleasure is Remember that there are many interesting games prepared for you. Would you like to play with me? I am Tong Yuwan I've never been afraid of Whatever you want to do. I'm always ready to deal with. What kind of men For example, Zhou You've gone too far, Du Yuntang. Just wait! Let's go. Du Yuntang. Young Master, We have lost everything. Stop. I have my own plan. The birthday of Lord is coming. How do we get so poor? We can't even afford a gift. Let me just ask you Did you feather your own nest? You're so perspicacious and I am so timid as a mouse that I can't embezzle money. I even hope you can embezzle money sometimes I can still get some I thought of the other one the Second Young Lady. She has ninety-nine She? Lady, the First mistress The words are too big Put you in a quandary. At this rate when The harder it is, the The more hasty, We have written Is the last words Keep in mind, don't let devil look down on us. You are right. Let calm down and defeat devil. What are you doing, This is the key of dowry of Second Young Lady. It's said that your dowry contains many I want to have a look. Can I? The dowry is in the There is one. That's the screen of It's priceless. Be careful. Get the paper wet. Du Yuntang. You did it on purpose. No, I didn't. I'm sorry. You are so hateful. Did I do something wrong? Why would you do this to me? Let me be buried with you Do you think it's I'm unhappy. But I have my own space outside. What about you? In the family bear the consequences Stop it! Get out. This is my home, Who are you to let me out? I don't have time My mother-in-law asked me to But now. I only have eight hours. Then, I can go out. But we have a deal. Can you lend me your dowry. Another deal? All Okay! Except the I can lend you all my Just take it and go. I'll pay you back, I promise Big Mother. Although our Du family even if we feed it to the dogs we won't allow it to be fed Big Mama, why are you here? And you have the nerve If I don't come how can I know has raised so many people who Want to eat bird's nest, right? You want to be a OK I'll show you today what kind of goods you are! Xuezhu. If you throw bird's I'll pretend I don't Otherwise the Du family will never have a young granny who We can't do this, big mother. Okay, you won't do it, will you? Nanny Rong I'm here Mother, this is not good. If Yuntang knows it Yuntang is my son. If he's not happy, Nanny Rong I'm here Do it! Yes. So painful. My face is disfigured. Don't think I'll let you off the I'm telling you, the is something I've You little goblin! Don't try to cheat my son out of a single penny. It hurts! I'm disfigured! Hongyu Yuwan. You saved her last time so leave her alone this time. I'm telling you. I'm going to show you today that as long as I'm around you're not going Let's go. You are not allowed to go home. You'll die in the cunt's den. Where did you get How dare I go and get if Big Mother doesn't say so? This is soy sauce so at least it works Soy sauce? Oh my God, are you or are you going Why don't you go If my face is disfigured. I'll lose a lot on this deal. This is good scalding medicine. The doctor said it will not leave a I don't believe you. You don't know Suxi. I'm not Mr. Dong Guo I won't save a frozen viper. But I won't allow you to between Yoon Tong So it seems the First Mistress did not give you the Sister Yuwan I can't believe. You are still a twenty-four Yun Tang has a It was his suspicion of his that made him prodigal. If you have even a hint of what you call true How can you bear to watch leaving Yun Tong in You are so eloquent I was so close to Sister Yuwan But, alas. I was born with a problem I'll eat anything but a dud. Yun Tang, you're here at last. Second young granny she wants to disfigure me out of jealousy. You see Let me see. How did this happen? I took bird's nest Unexpectedly, your and threw bird's nest on her. The bird's nest is hot! Master, that's not true our mistress hasn't What's going on here, you say? I have nothing to say. Master Young miss is Yun Tang, I'm in pain. So painful. Yuntang How can you be so cruel? Destroying a woman's face is more cruel than killing her. It's not me Who was that? I'm not at liberty to say. Du Yuntang. What kind of person am I to you? Don't you even have the most basic trust in me? Would you like to Sure. In your heart you've been hiding many secrets. I feel that I am just an outsider. So can you tell me now who did this to Hong Yu's face? I'm not going to lie. I said I didn't do it believe it or not. Who brought this? It's me. It's the burn cream I think Hong Yu is too poor. Then when did you know that When did Hong Yu get burned? When did you go back What's this? It was embroidered by me. But I'm clumsy so I stayed up for several Because the hand was punctured and stained with blood I haven't given OK I'm touched by your thoughts. A handkerchief is nothing what matters is that unlike some people. Du Yuntang, I didn't Is there value in a relationship What's more unfortunate is that some people won't even give Hongyu, you are not well. The Second Youngest she will earn her own My money she doesn't even need so why not take it to you and buy a nice house? Then I enjoy the touch of deceit and listen to your sweet words. OK? OK Du Yuntang. Your inability to distinguish is simply ridiculous. Madam Yuwan Madam. Yuwan, Yuwan Madam Go and get the doctor, quickly! Doctor, how is my wife's health? Don't worry, it's just a little wind I'll give you a prescription and give her a few Don't worry Thank you Then ask someone to pick up the medicine OK, no problem OK. By the way, sister-in-law I'll trouble you then I'll take her back Suxi, get the shoes. Look at him he didn't even say goodbye to me and ran home with Fortunately, Tong otherwise we would really have You're wrong. Tong Yuwan is pregnant. How do you know? Luckily. I kept an eye out and and I bought him off on the way. I made a deal with him to let him make if Tong Yuwan got pregnant. No matter what we have to hide this Tong Yuwan is pregnant what will I do then? Now the situation has changed and I'm really afraid I I don't know what Let's go and talk to Shaofeng. Yuntang. Yuntang. Lady Since you fell ill the young master hasn't These days he comes to see he will never cheat again. Don't worry about it. Young master. Let me do it. Dummy. Tingchen. Young master, Don't misunderstand. Our lady just just this once called Are you telling the truth? Yes, you must trust me. When the lady was sleeping, Suxi. Yuntang. What are you talking about? Do you believe in God's will? Yuntang. This doesn't sound like you. A year ago, you and you had nightmares A year later, you you're still calling Yuntang, it's not like that. I'm already trying very Does that work? This year has been I have used all the But God still arranged for me to hear you talking at this time today and you are still Isn't this the will of God? You don't believe it, I do. Young master, Take good care of your lady. From today onwards who is on her mind where I sleep no one cares. Young master. Lady. Do you feel uncomfortable? The young master certainly Don't worry he'll be back. Suxi. Why is it that every time. Yountang and I there's always a terrible force that tears us apart? Suxi. I am so scared. Pull yourself together, lady. Even if not for but also for the sake Mom and Dad. Mom and Dad, what You will know this anyway. Let me tell you the truth. The master's textile factory and madam is desperate. What did you say? How did this happen? You have to hold on, lady. Suxi, hurry to the warehouse to take out all my and give it to Dad immediately. Yuntang, Yuntang Yuntang, what happened to you? Hong Yu, tell me. How a moth flaps the flame?. Yuntang. Like this. Like this, Yuntang. Yuntang. Yuntang. You're here. Come on in. Come on. Are you tired? I've brewed some new Biluochun try it while it's hot. Yes, it smells good. Why did you brew so much? Isn't it rare for you I have been waiting I specially prepared tea for you is to let you drink is the freshest. Don't you ever do this again. Good tea, like youth should not be wasted. This is not fresh tea cold How can you drink it? Brew tea in cold water, the unfresh tea has its fragrance. This is something I You are not referring to the It is Tong Yuwan, right? Look at you. You don't drink the new tea I worked so hard to make for you but you want to drink a and miss other people. I really don't know what do you mean by that? I decide what it means and it means what it means. Yuntang, I was wrong. Don't leave. I know I shouldn't have But everything I do is because I love you. I really love you. I can't restrain the selfishness of Yuntang, don't do this to me. It hurts. It hurts. Yuntang. Yuntang. Yuntang. Don't play any more Tricks. The real wound is here. If you leave. I'll have my heart Yuntang. You get up first. Another self-inflicted trick the Du family's women have been playing can't we get a new one? I shouldn't have But everything I do s because of my strong love. Let me tell you if you say more words like this they will be worthless. You are going to find Du Yuntang, you she won't even deceive Why are we without What a coincidence, right? It's not a coincidence someone did it on purpose. Every factory of our Du family is within this blackout area. Who is setting up the Du family? Forget it Even if I tell I don't understand? Does Tong Yuwan understand? Of course she understands. She is smarter than me. So? I'm all for you alone While being the young stealing your money for her family. What happened to Yuwan's family? Manager Luo, I'd like Second young lady Female family members I have an urgent matter please convey it for me. Second Young Lady. This is the rule it is absolutely not allowed. Manager Luo Father. It's me who asked Yuwan to come to the company to How about this. You go to my office I'll be right there. Thank you, Father. It's okay, Yuwan. If you have something we are family. Father, here's the deal. The Tong family is and needs money urgently. I hope you can help us in our most difficult time. It was the Du family's duty to help the Tong family to solve your urgent problems but the Jingbang Street project is a very important project for the Chinese Besides we have I see. Father, I'll leave now then. Father. Father My mom and dad are old. Please think of I know you very well you do not easily ask for help once you ask must be urgent. Fine, Yuwan You tell me how much money At least 400,000 yuan 400,000 yuan. I can't help you now. Do we have to sell our mansion? Don't. Jingbang Street you must keep it Well, ten days I do not have need time to turnover. Thank you, father. But there is one Tell me Look after Because I don't want Yuntang to continue the absurdity. Don't worry, I will When I asked you to marry him I didn't just want a wife I needed a wife who could help him take Father. He won't give me that chance. But I want you to create such an opportunity for me, for Yountang. Father, that's not fair. Yuntang has always he's been in trouble But you are different. When I first saw you were a smart, generous girl who could take responsibility I hope you understand that the reason I'm telling you this is because I've always seen you as a mature adult. I hope you can Father. To my parents. I was also a child My parents have the same All parents have the same mind. But now you are the one who I hope you can take the initiative Father, is this the condition In fact I have told your business must be done with care. But he always ignored it. I can help him solve but what about tomorrow? He will need my help again. But for the sake of my son. I am willing to help him. How about you? As long as you can I am willing to give everything for my parents. Even if it is as long as you keep your word and can help the Tong family. Okay, one day you will understand me. Okay, you go, Yuwan. Dad. Since the Du family has promised to help us within 10 days they will definitely Tomorrow if you let the news out the creditors will stop coming That's great. Now you're happy? This is what Wanyu put In the future Wanyu to others in the Du family. We'll pay them back I don't want to see I want to talk to my Okay, you two talk I will go to the Come on, Wanyu, sit down. Thanks to you this time. It's nothing At worst all of Wanju's future income will go to the Du family. With Yuntang's support and his reasonable parents it won't be difficult for me. If that's true I'm relieved. Tong Fu Yes. You go and bring the Yes. Mom. Why did you buy Madam. Mom Our family is like this now why did you still buy such expensive herbs for him? It's okay. We are regular customers we can take credit. When you go back you personally boil these herbs boil three bowls of and let him drink Why let him drink this? Yuwan. I have been very but for your happiness I also have to teach you some women's tactics. Yuntang is different he is smart and capable so the temper will You must not be too stubborn and let others get him first. Mom. Yuntang doesn't You'd better return it. Don't take credit anymore. You should take care You are the debt of my life. I just want to But when you go to no one will love If you don't make even if I live forever. I will be a long-lived person Mom. Mom -Yuwan. You are the one who the most in the world. Mother -Madam Why are you here? Have a seat. I heard that Master has Yes. Father did promise me. Since the master I won't stop him. But you should understand that we help your family because of the person we love and that person is the person closest which is your For the sake of our you should bring him home too. As for whether you it depends on whether you cooperate Miss, let me do it. You've never done this before. No I can't let anyone else help me with this medicine I have to do it myself Fine. You are really dedicated to the young master. If the young master does then he is really blind I won't even let him go. I'm only doing this to do my part. I don't care what he thinks of me. I'm afraid that you but you actually care. Lady, it's the young master. Your sincerity has finally The young master is home. Xing'er, you go to Hong Yu now and tell her to come You tell her that Tong to satisfy Yuntang Yes. Is that you? Yuwan. Hong Yu How could it be you? Why are you here at my house? Yuwan. I was a guest at and happened to hear so I thought I'd come I didn't expect that person to be ungrateful. Sister, I'm really sorry I was in a hurry to so I bumped into you. What is this precious herb? Does it matter? It doesn't matter. I'll go make another one. Yuntang, look I ran a lot of places specifically bought these for you Rechargeable electric light. This is a plotting Sri Lankan spiced Hong Yu, thank you. But you did cross the line you can't wear my wife's clothes and then enter my room. Leave. I know I will leave, Yuntang. Immediately right now. Yuntang Just one dance, okay? This is the only recording made by the Budapest. Youth Gold Medalist for Strings which is no longer It's Qingping. She actually left a real record. Yuntang. For the sake of my sister you dance with me Sister-in-law, I can see you. Come out and talk. Sister. If there is anything just tell me. Sister-in-law. Why did you stop me Did I stop you? Didn't I just I am a person who does but I do not like If you have something I was afraid you would be sad. Because Yuntang settle Hong Yu at I see. Thank you. In the future, I will believe in what you say no matter what OK? Yuwan. How come it's you? You spy on us. This is my room. I don't know who's spying on who. I know I was wrong but we also have privacy. You shut up. Yuntang, all right. We have plenty of Let's work together to make this person go away. Yuwan, listen to me first. What else do you want to say? You let her into our room let her wear my nightgown and allowed her to provoke me and you're here to tell me what? Yuwan. Sorry, I forgot here women never have the Tong Yuwan. Du Yuntang. Goodbye. The medicine she made For the first time she personally. What's this? Du Yuntang. I've done so much but I've never seen You are just the The person I really love is Tong Yuwan. You love her? You love her? You love her? You finally said it, Du Yuntang. How can you do this to me? I love you so, so much. When I took the broken yes I used a little trick but I did get hurt. I did suffer a lot I no longer want to blame you for your artifice, I dare say that what you Then what is love? You said you loved Tong aren't you being pretentious? Her honesty, her self-esteem her strength. I love each and Despite our quarrels and moments of suspicion she is my wife and no one can replace her. Do you understand? Auntie Rong Madam. Did Yuntang go to Did he go to Hong Yu's again? Neither But what if That's what I'm worried about. If Yuntang continues like this the master will definitely not give him the Du family's estate. Ma'am, do you remember what happened to What happened? I heard that in the married nine wives and the family was I think it's better to marry a wife who can control the second so as to fulfill that the first wife can't do. Do you mean to let Hong Yu marry Yuntang? No way. I used to treat her so badly she will definitely work How about we test Pull yourself together. I will give you more. I don't want anything. I just want to cry When he held me he just took pity on me. All he loves is Tong Yuwan. I never thought would cry for love. Love is a painful thing. I would rather be destroyed and turned into ashes I would not like him No, I don't. Lady. Look, such a big thing but Madam and Auntie Rong didn't come to ask about it. I'm the one who is useless. They know this matter, it is better to ignore Wait a few days and then solve the problem this is also the mother's Suxi, what's wrong? Look. You've been looking at but you haven't turned a page. You are already why do you have Why do you have to Okay, you have high self-esteem and can act like But others will Madam and Auntie a concubine for the young master Miss, sorry, it's all my fault. I shouldn't have said it. Why couldn't I control my mouth? Miss, please don't A woman as dirty as Hongyu. How could our madam Comparably they would certainly care She has been so and colluded with and got a full understanding of whole family. Yuntang is so sophisticated not to mention first madam. What about the lord? Our lord is the After our lord of power failure in the factory he will surely hold Suxi even you know that our lord focuses on the issue For my parents, he has shoulders a debt I can't only help but also bother him with In that case, I ungrateful daughter-in-law Miss, what do you want to do? I will stand up for your rights. I will right wrongs in Suxi. Go and find a kerosene stove. Let's boil the herbal What? You still want to help His heart has Why are you still treating At this late hour. I can only try my best. As to the result, it Miss, you treat But you should tell whether Your husband is not master Zhou. Master Zhou is so You treat him sincerely and he rewards you with But your husband... I have seen through He is an iceberg underneath the sea Even if you treat him he won't respond to you at all. Miss if master Zhou takes I am the first one to Suxi. I am Du Yuntang's wife now the second young Even if Zhou I won't leave with I know you have to Miss, I am running Yuntang. Madam Why are you here? Why? Can't I come here? This is the house my son rented. I want to what has bought in. Hongyu is sending my and greeting to aunt Rong. She is quite good-mannered. Madam, please take your seat. Let me make you some tea. Wait. My madam's taste for tea is different from the She doesn't like I've already prepared the top level Songxi white tea. It is so rare even in Shanghai. How could you have it? The second young master madam every day Therefore I know you just love this tea. I've looked everywhere I just hope that someday you would to savor the tea I Now all things come Today you came as Enough. Give it to me please. Yes, madam. Madam, please. Yes, it is made with It fits me Here you are, madam. This handkerchief is the People like you how could you ask my Madam, you've wronged me. This is what I I know in his family he just likes this brand I'm afraid that he would and it would upset him. Madam, she did tell the truth. It is used by You do know from your heart that you should care for my son. It is one of your I have sincere filial When I am free I to make madam's Today I'd venture to show my incompetence to you. For the sake of your sincerity madam would like to have one or two pieces Go to get them Madam, I am going to Madam I think she is so She shouldn't be She is just pretending. So she is flattering us. Then we will leave now. No, not at all. Talking about the relationship between When the daughter-in-law even if she's pretending, As the mother-in-law I'd like my daughter-in-law But she's too aloof to do it So you mean is less sophisticated Once you mentioned Tong Since we're already in this We'll go back after Miss. Lord and the first young talking for over 2 hours. They are obviously As you are poor in health you'd better stand up. Suxi. Mum and dad only have one daughter. It's me. Now they are in great trouble not to say kneeling for 2 hours even if I must kneel or undergo the I'd also want to save them! Ok, I can do nothing else but facing the I'd cover you up! Miss I will accompany you Suxi. The loss caused by Have you calculated it out? Father, the loss totals 330, 000 yuan. Now we have appropriated to pay in advance. And the cloth we delivered is more expensive so we have failed Now the condition of the When the boats are our loss will not only be money but also Du commercial credit But father The Japanese Mitsui ports and Shuntai ports demand us to pay the and groundage of ships which add up to The godown rent for the ports must be paid immediately. Go to ask Manager Liu by appropriating money The salary to workers can But the rent for ports Dad, I see in our account a sum of money to be which totals 400,000. Can we use it for emergency? No, no Yuwan is for this money. Father, our ship is How can we take care of others? Go and ask Yuwan to come in! Father, think twice I told you to go and Well... Did you hear me? Just go. Hi Brother Chen, yes, yes I'm looking for you. Here is the thing. I've been running So I'd like to borrow What? No money? Brother Chen We've Could you just help me, please? What? Your factory It's not the right moment Ok, let me work it Sorry to interrupt. Father. You know. Now our Du family's situation you should know it very well. Yes, I do. We are trapped everywhere and unable to make a step forward. I've been cherishing to establish the industries I didn't expect that the narrower the path gets. Yuwan, I'd like to facing so many difficulties what would you do?? Well, I... Father, I would stick to it I would not give up of Jingbangjie ports. Why? Japanese has been plotting Although I can't I do know it is so If along the Huangpu River there aren't any Once the war gets started the supplies of will be controlled by others. So no matter what happens we should never give up