We are in Atting, a small village in Zanskar, in the house of Rigzin Tsewang. He is preparing to leave for a long "expedition" towards the Paldar, a little-known valley in the Indian Himalayas, but reputed to be idyllic. Rigzin has family in several villages and he plans to join Nawang, one of his childhood friends, in Halod for the Nague festival. His mother and aunt share breakfast in the company of his friends who will accompany him, evoking the tales and legends which surround these long walks. Rigzin went around to his neighbors to find porters. It is first a question of taking stock of what will be distributed. He will then carry out a drawing of lots to designate the charges of each person. The porters use a Khurshing, a backpack which, although rudimentary made of wood and straps, allows very heavy loads to be carried. The goal of the journey is to reach the Paldar valley heading west, towards Kashmir by crossing the Zanskar range and taking the formidable Omasila pass at an altitude of 5400m. Today you can reach this valley by road and tracks through Kashmir, but it requires a lot of money and between 3 and 4 days of travel in difficult conditions. Depending on the weather, Rigzin estimates he can arrive in Halod in 4 to 5 days. Atting is located at an altitude of 3500 m. The first valley is very mineral, like much of the region which receives very little precipitation during the summer. Torrents and rivers see their volume swell in the middle of the day. The heat from the sun accelerates the melting of snow and glaciers. For a break, Tsewan collects yak dung for salted butter tea. As for Thenlis, he never forgets to invoke the gods by attaching a small piece of Katak. When tea is mixed with milk and spices, it becomes Tchai. You can add yak butter. On the other side of the river, anchored in the rock, is the Zongkul Monastery. Its isolation has made it a mecca for meditation over the centuries . Richen, at 17, knows the surroundings well. A monk at Zongkul Monastery, he is delighted with this escapade. Solidarity and mutual aid are permanent, especially when it comes to crossing powerful torrents when the water does not exceed 4 or 5deg. Mostly farmers, they are all small in size but have extraordinary resistance and physical power. As you progress, the scenery becomes imposing, surrounded by immense rock walls. For the night, Tsiring, who knows the route perfectly, stopped at the foot of a block of rocks where they can protect themselves in case of rain. Tsampa constitutes the basic food of the inhabitants of these high valleys. It is roasted barley flour mixed with tea or water. At sunrise, despite the 3800 m altitude, the air is soft, warmed by an optimistic sun, but here nothing is ever certain for the day, the weather changes very quickly. Thenlis takes the time to readjust the Khurshang of the young people, several of whom suffered yesterday. Teshi is the eldest of the group: he is 48 years old and has nearly 30 crossings under his belt, he knows that a perfect balance of the Khurshing will be the key to his comfort and progress during the day. 7 hours of walking are planned in the program, with the first significant elevation changes. Richen, the young lama, despite his 17 years, shows exceptional physical condition. "When I'm at the monastery I often take care of the cattle, I take them to graze in the mountains and in the evening I go up there to bring them back, that's what I'm used to. >> During the summer, farmers in the last villages of Zanskar let their herd of yaks go high up in the mountains to graze on fresh grass. The animal is not only robust but is undoubtedly an outstanding climber. In the distance, the first glacial tongues of Omasila can be seen, blocked by bad weather. Sangay is a friend of Rigzin, he comes from Nepal, he is the team's cook, he is used to great altitudes and often accompanies groups to Everest base camps. He approaches the first climbs calmly. " All around these mountains here it is known that it is full of precious stones, the most expensive and the most sought after is the sapphire of Kashmir" The young people arrive much later but they were clever: Lobsan and Stanzin borrowed a yak and transferred their load to it. So it is with a smile that they join their friends. For snacks, they can still count on fresh vegetables taken the day before and bread baked the morning before departure. Basically, Omasila is still under bad weather. The route becomes more bumpy with sometimes long stretches of boulders to cross. The yak will be used until the end of the day before being released. He will quietly return to the rest of the herd on his own. At more than 4500m altitude, the night promises to be cool and Tsiring is counting on this stone shelter to protect himself from the rain which is likely to fall at the end of the day. With Tsewan, they went to pick rare flowers with therapeutic properties. "These are Piankulu medicinal plants, they help purify the blood while giving an interesting taste to food " At 4:30 in the morning, Tsiring prepares the bread pancakes before a day that promises to be trying. More than 10 hours of walking at very high altitude and above all the passage of the famous pass awaits them. At dawn, the glacier is still partly under the clouds but it is no longer raining. The first rays of sunshine are rather reassuring. The day begins with this long glacial tongue, gray, bristling with stone, and above all slippery. Everyone wears simple rubber boots. The whole glacier presents a strange face, worked by the summer sun, it is a bit of chaos all around. As you approach 5000m, you have to take more breaks. It's hard but no one complains or shows any sign of weariness. The good news is the presence of the sun which will accompany the last part of the climb. A significant difference in altitude awaits the whole group with rocks and snow. Tsiring has slowed down, it's steep, and at more than 5000m the weight of the loads is felt heavily. Even if the spectacle is grandiose, everyone tries to be extra vigilant, which the altitude tends to weaken. How to progress without slipping in rubber boots remains a mystery. Even if the route is not comparable to the exploits of mountaineers on great peaks, these simple farmers demonstrate a breathtaking physical resistance and sense of balance. The last hundred meters to reach the 5400M altitude of the pass will be done in slow motion. At the summit, smiles reappear, accompanied by thanks to the gods and distribution of Katak for those who cross the pass for the first time. "You know, I consider that in Omasila there is a god who takes care of the pass, and every time I cross the pass, from the beginning of the morning, I think of him and ask him for his benevolence, when we arrive at the summit we say prayers and we offer Kataks to thank him for having had sun and not having had rain or snow" The team is not going to linger at the pass: a long crossing of the glacier awaits them on the other side, with a layer of snow thick enough to hide the crevasses. Tsiring is not a guide, in fact there is no school in his valley, but he learned from the elders how to behave on this glacier. He decides to rope everyone up and begins a careful descent, using his stick to probe the terrain. There is still a steep slope to overcome to reach the base of the glacier. Everything is out of proportion, on the scale of the Himalayas and its expanse. "I have been traveling this valley since I was very young, I know the path well, I know where to cross the torrents, and how to carry heavy loads, you learn this as you travel" The simple descent of this glacial tongue will take more than 2 hours. This rock could make you smile if it did not hide a worrying retreat of the glacier in recent years. "You see the glacier about 10 or 20 years ago it was going up there on each edge, the glacier has since retreated significantly every year , and that is also a symbol of the way in which the glacier is in the process of melt >> After more than 10 hours of walking, the spectacle remains intense despite the accumulating clouds. Everyone says they were lucky to pass the pass in such good conditions. The rain came on the descent towards the Paldar. The difference in altitude is significant between the rocks and the first traces of greenery are already appearing. Paldar, unlike Zanskar, although only about fifty kilometers away as the crow flies, is affected by the monsoon. Even slightly below 4000 m, we find varied vegetation and the first trees. "In ancient times, when there were no roads at all, our grandparents and great-grandparents used to travel sometimes for months using passes at more than 5000 or even 6000m, so we can consider that it is in our blood and that we are used to crossing this type of pass and steep slopes; It 's not that difficult for us" It's time for a well- deserved break after a daunting descent. The youngest discover vegetation and a landscape unknown to them. As they progress through the valley, Rigzin and his friends will come across the first herds of nomads coming from Punjab or Himachal Pradesh. They spend the summer at high altitude and enjoy the generous nature of the Paldar. The Paharis, the inhabitants of Paldar, also practice summering and live in small basic houses at altitude with their herds, like here in Suncham Dogsa. The Buddhist owners employ Hindu seasonal workers from the plains, an original cohabitation that does not exist anywhere else. He smokes their tobacco in a top.. A shepherd brings back a sheep that was killed by a falling rock. Tsewan, who chats with him, is even treated to a few notes on the flute that he plays when he is with his animals. The next day, it rained on the way. Rigzin meets women who have left the summer pastures to go to the village of Suncham further down. Despite their different dialect from Zanskari, they understand each other easily. "They are from the village of Suncham... Suncham is the first village in the valley from the pass, set in a green setting. Wood is omnipresent in the construction of houses, which is not the case in Zanskar. The descent continues as powerful torrents flow beneath what remains of the Suncham Glacier. Rigzin decides to stop at the next village in Jachel, where he has family. " We are in Jachel, the 2nd village that we encounter when we arrive from Zanskar, here it is the house of someone from my family, we are going to have a cup of tea before joining Danga" Dorma is a Rigzin's sister-in-law. Her husband is a Hamchi, a traditional doctor, currently touring further down the valley. Dorma entrusts Teshin with the task of preparing an Achar with spices, peppers and Talkur. A plant endemic to the surrounding area. This preparation will accompany potatoes and a bread made from Talkur. "It's a traditional bread here in Paldar, it's very well known, you only find it here" Dorma also serves a Lassi, a fermented milk. She is delighted to have visitors at the end of August. She knows that the first snowfalls will not take long and that it will then be very complicated to get around. For the whole team, this stopover is welcome. The days are long, especially in the rain. Teshin asks Dorma to show him the blankets she weaves in winter. He is seduced by the quality of the wool and wants to bring back two... the price negotiation will be done in a low voice. Tehsin will take them when he returns. For now, the decor is grandiose. A little less from 3000m, the first conifers appear. Along the way, shepherds also come down. For the young people in the group who come here for the first time and have never seen a tree, this unusual setting does not seem to surprise them. Fatigue is starting to set in but the next village, Gorna, is now very close. " We are in the village of Gorna, it's still someone from my family." Pedma is a cousin of Rigzin, she will prepare Chiang for the occasion. She previously fermented barley for several weeks, which she will now press, a type of beer very popular in these valleys. Here we don't bother to collect dried yak dung for the fire, solid pieces of wood constantly fuel it. Their daughter just had a baby. Her husband has already returned to higher altitudes with a herd of sheep and goats. They are all happy to have seen Rigzin again, who rarely comes to the Paldar. Losan is a good half hour walk from Gorna. Beautifully located, it looks like a real postcard in summer. Its location owes nothing to chance: it is here that in winter there is the best chance of escaping the numerous and formidable avalanches. A small Buddhist monastery is located in the heart of the village. The young people from the team come to pray there. It is run by a monk from Zanskar, seconded from the Bardan monastery. Losan is the first important village in the valley arriving from Zanskar, where during the summer Gujur nomads often come to exchange goat's milk and sheep's wool for food. A friend of Rigzin is busy distilling Arak, a strong alcohol that is drunk especially in winter at the slightest opportunity. A short hour's walk from there, Rigzin reaches the goal of his journey: the village of Halod at almost 3000m altitude, at the foot of an unnamed but superb mountain. It is here that he will meet Nawang, his friend who lives most of the year in Jammu further south. He shows Rigzin that the hives are on the ground floor of the houses. Bees enter through small holes. Thus protected, the hives develop and produce highly sought-after honey. "here we harvest honey in November" That is to say just before the first snowfall. The houses all have a south-facing terrace which offers a clear space in summer and winter to carry out various work. In winter, the flocks live in the lower parts of the house and thus warm certain rooms inexpensively. At Nawang, nomads came to bring goat's milk. They are Gujurs who willingly participate in different tasks. At his neighbor's house, they prepare cheese made from cow's milk, which once dried in the sun can be kept for several weeks. The stables during this season are full of herbs, mushrooms and plants which, once prepared, will last all winter. At Tsewang Ranchen, we preserve much more than plants. The village Hamchi, the traditional doctor, reveals his age-old remedies. Mysterious potions, strange roots, at 87 years old it is a unique encyclopedia of all the plants the valley has. Today, he is both sad and fatalistic, because he risks being the last Hamchi in a long line. "He says that today young people prefer a more formal education at school, while to become a Hamchi you have to start by learning religious texts, these Buddhist texts are the only possible access to becoming a Hamchi" "he says &quot;It's disappointing, he regrets it but he can't do anything, young people are turning to classical studies at school&quot; Paldar has many advantages compared to Zanskar and one might be surprised that people like Rigzin do not want to come and settle here. "The climate and the quality of the land compared to Ladakh and Zanskar is much better, the land is much more fertile, the climate is more pleasant they have more rain less snow they can grow a lot of things here, yes the life is better here, yes, I would like to come and settle here" But his attachment to his valley and his family will always be stronger in any case. Here the land has never received fertilizer or pesticides: it is too expensive and, in any case, everything grows in abundance. The quality of the ecosystem is such that several companies from Delhi come here to source mushrooms or rare plants. In Nawang's garden, potatoes are eager to proliferate, a vegetable that is sometimes a luxury in Zanskar. Many roots are also of interest to specialists. " I don't know the name in English but that's Gugul" Gugul is notably used as incense. Today in Halod, we celebrate Nague, a festival which marks the start of the harvest. The oracle, after praying for part of the morning, is ready to survey the village to give his blessing. But first, he will pray in the oldest house in the village. It is a Hindu festival, but in which the Buddhists of the village actively participate. The oracle goes from house to house to bless the offerings. Everyone will then head towards the small temple located at the top of the village. Each villager will leave their offerings in turn. Gugul-based incense is consumed in the four corners of the temple. The oracle saw that it was necessary to sacrifice 3 sheep to obtain good harvests and also designated the families who should provide them. Nawang's family had to bring a sheep. The oracle will continue the ceremony by flagellating himself. In his incantations, he transmits the questions that the farmers whisper into his ear. Then he transmits to them the answers of what he sees. " this is an unusual situation for me and it also disappoints me in some way as they are Buddhists they should follow what the Buddha taught but on the other hand they live here in the middle of a majority of people who are Hindus and it's a sort of obligation for them to practice the religion that the majority practices here" It is now the turn of a medium to come forward. He is already in a trance. He too will serve as a relay for the questions asked by the villagers. The next day, the village has regained its calm and the oracle is busy making a blanket. More precisely, a draft with this skein of multicolored threads which will then be placed on a loom. An activity that is generally reserved for long winter days. Nawang went to see Deskit, one of his aunts who has a very beautiful collection of jewelry. Nawang is a connoisseur, he works in sapphire. " She doesn't only wear all her jewelry for special occasions but in everyday life" Some stones are rare and have a lot of value. "She will pass them on to her daughter when she gets married" " The gold and silver come from Delhi or Jammu, but all the stones were found and worked in the valley" On the heights of the village is the Gompa , the Buddhist monastery. It was offered last century by a monastery located in Spiti, a Himalayan region further east. It is therefore a monk from Spiti who takes care of it, he is on a mission for a year in Halod. " The majority of the population in this valley is Hindu, and therefore there is an influence of Hindu culture on Buddhism, for Buddhists it is not very pleasant to have to practice the rites of the Paharis here. The Rinpoche should come and see the situation and question the mix of these two religions here, and only he could put things back in order, otherwise I am only a monk and no one listens to me because here they live this way for a long time" Rigzin and Nawang went to the village of Danga, nestled in the forest at the foot of a mountain where sapphire mines are closely guarded by the army. But Nawang regularly goes around to families in the region to buy them stones that they would have found in the mountain. Everything related to sapphire is always shrouded in mystery and caution. Nawang's friend is of course not going to take out large stones in front of the camera, but small units which will give a beautiful result after polishing. &quot;the inhabitants of the valley were never able to benefit from the sapphire mines, during the British colonization which had created these mines, all the stones were sent to England, and after independence the government took over and controls the resources of the mine, so no one here gets any real benefit from them" "some are ordinary stones. There it's sapphire, there are green tints, they're just small stones " At the back of the village, a merchant from Punjab buys sheep's wool from the nomads. He walked 3 days from Kashmir with mules, because he knows that the wool will be of very good quality. After checking and weighing the bags, he will pay 32 rupees per kilo for the wool, a paltry price of 50 euro cents. These Gujur nomads, after spending the summer at high altitude, will begin at the beginning of September to head towards Jammu, with a much warmer climate during the winter, which they will take around twenty days to reach. Meanwhile, Rigzin greets his aunt who owns this house. She offers Arak to Nawang as a welcome. Deachen Angmo is sad and worried about her 9 daughters, 3 are not yet married and it is a heavy burden for her. Rigzin, who is not yet married either, tries to reassure her.... Rigzin finds his entire team of porters who are preparing to leave for Zanskar. They buy a lot of wooden utensils in the village, especially snow shovels, but also spices and plants. "In Zanskar there is no wood to make this kind of tool and we need it to clear the snow in winter." He told me that compared to last year the prices had increased, it was 100 rupees last year it went to 140 rupees, he finds it expensive this year, but whatever happens he gets a good deal by returning to Zanskar he will sell them for 500 rupees" " Despite the arrival of The internet, mobile phones and the creation of roads will not change the situation too much, young people will continue to come to Paldar on foot, since ancient times our two valleys have maintained very good relations. The whole village opens its cellars: it's good business day. Tsiring will also bring back a small beam which he cuts. Loaded with wood, the team leaves for Zanskar, and the formidable Omasila pass. For his part, Rigzin decided to return via Kashmir. He therefore descends into the Paldar valley and stops at Machel where an unexpected spectacle surprises him. Thousands of Hindu pilgrims flock to celebrate Chandi Mata. They have often walked 3 days from Gulagbar, the paths become saturated. Pilgrims then queue for long hours to worship in front of a statuette of the goddess Chandi, one of the most important in Hinduism, associated with Shiva. In these pilgrimages, all strata of the population mix without distinction of social origin. We thus come across big industrial bosses from Delhi in simple white outfits who rub shoulders with breeders from the depths of Himaschal Pradesh. But Rigzin is not at the end of his surprises: a ballet of helicopters occupies the space for a good part of the day. Reserved for an elite who can afford the trip to the bottom of the valley, it transforms 3 days of walking into 5 minutes of flight. " it's true that people come here on pilgrimage from all over India to come and see the Chandi Mata, so it's all a bit crazy, it seems that people need comfort and the helicopter. But otherwise there are a majority of people who are real pilgrims who walk for 2 or 3 days barefoot...they collect their thoughts and leave barefoot&quot; Beyond the disastrous impact of these incessant thefts on the life of the valley , animals and villages during the 3 weeks of pilgrimage, one may wonder about the spiritual benefit of such a practice. For Rigzin it is now time to go back down to Kashmir through a superb valley but neglected by the regional government. If beautiful roads crisscross Kashmir, here children and parents take 2 to 3 days in winter and summer to reach the first college. And it is perhaps this pilgrimage which, better supervised, will make it possible to accelerate an opening up and thus avoid a slow death to these magnificent villages located higher up.