One of the most massive attacks on Ukraine, Putin threatens Kiev with a new Hazelnut strike, and Trump has chosen a special envoy to end the war. NEXTA broadcasts the most important and interesting news up to this hour. 200 air defense targets, a blow to the energy sector, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians in the dark. Moscow struck Ukraine. What did Zelensky say? Putin admits to preparing a war crime. He promises to turn objects in Ukraine into dust with Oreshnik's new blow. Where are they going to hit? Shoigu declares the defense of Belarus, and in Uzbekistan they made it clear whether they are ready Hello everyone, friends. I will be glad to see your like, subscription and repost. You know very well that this is very important for us. Leave your comments. Thanks for your feedback. About current and important events right now. I'm starting. LARGE-LARGE SHEET OF UKRAINE on such a scale. Missiles and drones flew from the Belgorod and Volgograd regions, drones from Kursk, Primorsko-Akhtarsk, Orel, Bryansk, Millerovo. In addition, the occupying army of the Russian Federation also attacked Ukraine from the Black Sea. Zelensky responded to a large-scale attack using more than 90 missiles and a hundred drones . He called it another act of air terror and said Russia was targeting energy infrastructure. The heads of regional military administrations of Ukraine report on the consequences of the arrivals. In particular, in the Rivne and Volyn regions, five hundred thousand people were left without electricity, and there were interruptions in the water supply. Damage to infrastructure facilities was recorded in Sumy, Kiev, Lvov, and Nikolaev regions. Closer to noon, Ukrenergo announced that emergency power outages throughout the country had been canceled and the transition to shutdown schedules was now underway. Zelensky assures that the strike was carried out, among other things, by cluster munitions. Vladimir Zelensky, President of Ukraine specifically on civilian infrastructure. These cluster elements make it much more difficult for our rescuers and energy workers to deal with the consequences of the strikes, and this is a very sneaky way of escalating Russian terrorist tactics. PUTIN IS PREPARING A NEW "HALMET" STRIKE Putin called the strike on Ukraine complex, without hesitation even specifying that Russia launched 100 UAVs and 90 missiles and allegedly hit 17 military targets. The suspect at the International Criminal Court made such a statement in Kazakhstan, where he was warmly received the day before. Putin is again scaring Ukraine with a new Oreshnik strike, and for this, the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces is allegedly already selecting targets. In addition, Putin claims that Russia has only a few such ballistic missiles in its arsenal. And if the propagandist Kiselyov once frightened with radioactive ash, then Putin says that Oreshnik turns everything into dust. Vladimir Putin, War Criminal targets for destruction on the territory of Ukraine. These could be military facilities, defense industry enterprises or decision-making centers in Kiev. Moreover, the Kiev regime has repeatedly tried to strike targets of national importance in Russia, St. Petersburg and Moscow. Meanwhile, in Kazakhstan, the police decided to prosecute the activists who yesterday kindly asked Putin to leave Astana. The men were carrying flags of Ukraine and Kazakhstan and a piece of paper with the inscription: "Your Excellency, get the hell out of Kazakhstan!" Bold - isn't it? NUCLEAR WAR: BLUFF OR GOAL? Russia's nuclear doctrine, which includes Belarus. Sergei Shoigu, Secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation applies to Belarus. The doctrine itself is clear, understandable, and transparent. Therefore, my Western colleagues have a suggestion: calmly and carefully read. Let me remind you that on November 19, Putin approved the updated nuclear doctrine of Russia. And now the Russian Federation is urging citizens not to be afraid of nuclear weapons. Listen. Vladimir Gundyaev, Head of the Russian Orthodox Church point of view. The Gate of the Horn of Man tries to sow confusion and anxiety in the hearts of people in order to paralyze their will and deprive them of courage, for a person deprived of spiritual peace is easier to manipulate. He is afraid of everything, he weakens himself from the inside and always needs external support, and external support is often a factor of manipulation from the outside. There is no need to play along with all this. Christians are not afraid of the so-called end of the world. We are waiting for the Lord Jesus to come in great glory, destroy evil and judge all nations. At the same time, US intelligence assures that even after Biden allowed Ukraine to use American weapons to strike the Russian Federation, the risk of nuclear escalation remains low. Some officials now believe that fears of escalation, including nuclear threats, have been exaggerated, but stress that the overall situation in Ukraine remains dangerous and nuclear escalation is still possible. Russia's ability to find other covert ways to strike back at the West remains a concern. What do you think - will it come to a nuclear war sooner or later? And in general, how do you feel about reports of nuclear strikes and escalation? Write about it in the comments. POLITICS OF UZBEKISTAN if suspects from the International Criminal Court in The Hague come to the country. The publication KalampIr publishes the response of the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Republic of Uzbekistan has not undertaken any obligations to implement the decisions of the International Criminal Court. The relevant documents have not been ratified. Based on this, Uzbekistan has no obligation to execute arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court. The authors of the publication, in particular, were interested in whether Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, for whom the ICC had recently issued an arrest warrant, would be arrested. KalampIr also mentions Putin, who is also a suspect, but at the same time made an official visit to Uzbekistan in May and was not arrested. Let me remind you that the International Criminal Court in The Hague also demands the arrest of Shoigu, as well as the Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, Gerasimov. Judging by the statement, the road to this country is open to them . TRUMP'S DECISION TO END THE WAR Trump chose a special representative for Ukraine. Keith Kellogg is a retired lieutenant general, the man who presented his plan to end the war to the elected president. Kellogg has already made it clear how he will seek peace. Keith Kellogg, Special Representative for Ukraine and Russia the President and Special Representative for Ukraine and Russia. Working for President Trump has been the privilege of a lifetime, and I look forward to working tirelessly to secure peace through strength while advancing America's interests. The United States is currently considering several proposals to end the war. Michael Waltz, Trump's national security adviser, is doing this. And on his desk is also a plan that was developed, among other things, by the new special representative, Kellogg, writes CNN. The plan talked about stopping the war, freezing the front line. Ukraine, if it refuses negotiations, will be deprived of military support. And Moscow will be warned: if Putin does not want to come to an agreement, then Kiev will be given greater military support. How do you like these plans of the new administration? Write your opinion in the comments. NEXTA SUBSCRIBERS AGAINST DICTATORS War is considered madness by Nekhta subscribers. We are, as always, following your comments. In recent months, the most popular comments have been about the need to end the war, which led to the death of a large number of people, in particular, Ukrainian civilians. Under one of the latest issues, subscribers write the following: ALL FUNDS SHOULD BE DIRECTED NOT FOR WARS! FINANCE THE DEVELOPMENT OF MEDICINE, SCIENCE AND SPACE EXPLORATION! THE WHOLE PLANET TOGETHER!. And yet, many of you agreed with the following comment: These dictators are pensioners - after the second term they should sit at home. The third term is already spoiling them, and they are preventing the world from living peacefully. If your point of view coincides or you categorically disagree with such comments - write about it under the video. THE RAPID FALL OF THE RUBLE which has already affected the wallets of Russians, is the new package of US sanctions, which put pressure on Russia's military economy. Politico writes that by the middle of this week the ruble had fallen to record lows - only 114 rubles 75 kopecks per dollar, according to Investing.com. This level has not been observed since March 2022, in fact since the beginning of Russia's great war against Ukraine. By the end of trading in Moscow, the ruble had partially recovered to 113 rubles per dollar, having lost more than 7% during the day. The Central Bank's strict monetary policy is causing more and more criticism from leading Russian industrialists, Western media write. It is known that from November 28 until the end of this year, the Central Bank stopped the purchase of foreign currency on the domestic foreign exchange market. Nabiullina explained these actions as follows: As part of mirroring the regular operations of the Russian Ministry of Finance related to the implementation of the budget rule. The decision was made in order to reduce the volatility of financial markets. NO COMMENTS South Korea November blizzard Record snowfall for 117 years hit South Korea Friends, that's all. Don't forget to leave your comment and like. My team and I continue to monitor the most important news; look for up-to-date information from NEXTA in Telegram channels or on the X platform. Thank you for your trust and for staying with us, see you again and good news!