Welcome friends, to another edition of "Economic dimensions of our lives and those of our Today's program is going to be devoted why they are there, and what their impact is. address on many occasions. Instead of doing has been my approach so far, I thought I would not only of what mega corporations are and do how can it be challenged, contested, Mega corporations: I simply mean the one, two, different industries in the United States. They size to buy political and cultural influence and the great advertisers whose words and ideas you to political parties and politicians much of the hiring and firing and organizing lobbyists to work thereby to control political power. We know all doing is responding to their reality and that over and over again, by Ralph Nader, Chris Let us begin with a thumbnail critique of the are monopolists, that is, they are the only once they have acquired it, they can jack up the are the monopolist. There is nowhere else to go. will come back to, is the telephone. At a certain and Telegraph) was 'the' phone company. If you or the service they got for you, they would giggle by telling you: 'You could always go to their Sometimes monopolists have got themselves Today, we have two examples: Walmart and Amazon. mom-and-pop businesses around the country and businesses. They have been a horrific destructive a lot of opposition. There have even been warehouse from being located there or blocked a do not like what it means. Often monopolists they do not become the only one. Instead, when the to two or three big corporations, they stop. They will be a target for criticism. They have a stop in economics that is called an oligopoly, instead The best example is the automobile industry, or fifty car companies. Then it winnowed itself Chrysler, and so on. What is typically call unfair competition. They are big and they by insisting that suppliers give them a better sure that whoever they sell to, privileges their understand that capitalism has always tended to into this system. The easiest way to explain it is of you know this) that competition -- efforts produce one another, to offer a better service or produces winners and losers: those who do well What you may not understand is that not only are they literally eat up the loser. The to sell its equipment on the used equipment The people who lose their jobs in you know where they look for a job next? In the happens is many producers through competition the oligopoly or the monopoly. That is why the even glibber businessman/woman tell you about the Competition is what causes monopoly and oligopoly. Then there are cases when competition is You are a big corporation, and you buy your After a while, you realize you are never quite want in the market at the quantity you want, and you buy the company. You absorb it. It is go out there, and instead of buying the product that production of that input becomes internal to bought in the market. Once again, when you hear on please remember that large corporations almost the company CEO and board of directors to get rid situation by bringing the other companies that You know when they bring them inside? How it very thing that you denounce as socialism is what rid of the market outside because it wanted to That is the story of the big corporations: Let us begin to unpack what we can do with some history because we have, as a similar stories for the rest of the world) over again in our history. I do not have time At the end of the 19th century and there was a mass movement here in the They were called robber barons. That was the name journalists talked about the horrors of big illegality that goes on there; and the destructive had the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The word trust was they were called the big trusts, the robber when it called those people robber barons, whereas lot for the PR) captains of industry. The Clayton laws reflecting the mass movement from below in Washington was equipped with an Anti-Trust was (like the title says) to be against trust; to to catch them when they violate the rules of an but big corporations came in for a lot of company I mentioned before. The Government of broke the company up. It broke it up into regional monopoly that AT&amp;T wielded was determined to be We created in this country, something which exists to this day. You know why? Small competed and destroyed by illegal, unfair methods. bank and says: "We want a loan, and we want it you have to pay more." "Oh!" says the business. nobody banks at your bank. We are going to make put you right out of business." The small business that many accounts. It is not a fair fight. It is a bigger, better deal. So, we created the Small out and offers small businesses lower interest alive because the playing field is in fact tilted. did not take all this lying down. Who would expect there, they will fight back. What did they do? public relations: endless displays that you can about how the big corporation on the corner is days we hear about how it is all excited war. Oh sure! It is even called by a name now: Another thing big corporations did is even if the government was going to have an and others were going to do something (and well, they could solve that problem by becoming It is called regulatory capture when be supervised by the political control of the We have come to the end of show. Please stay with us. We will be right back. Before we move on, I want to remind everyone at Work, a small donor-funded, non-profit media critical system analysis and visions of a more of media like the series, "Ask Prof Wolff," which Democracy at Work supporters. If you have a go to Patreon.com/Democracy at Work or sign up to support the work we do. Submit your and I thank you for getting involved. You produce. Sign up for our mailing and join our growing community of and to whom we are very grateful. Thank you Welcome back friends, to the second half of mega corporations, the big monster corporations learn, and who dominate so much of what goes In the first half, we were talking about the ways you to get the history, so you know how possible are. We do not have to resign ourselves In addition to the problems of the large mentioned some of them: breaking up AT&amp;T Let me give you some more examples. In every states have established commissions. I am going A utility commission and an insurance commission. utilities and the insurers (as they became became monsters in their industry) generated large and small, that had to pay exorbitant the customers/individuals who did, or individuals insurance companies who dominated the market. In 'control these big companies.' Here is what the before the insurance company or the utility company and all of that) can raise a price, they they are doing; show their books; and justify the profit, and if the commission does not think to make a reasonable profit, the commission has price." In other words, we are controlling and corporations want and like to wield. Have Let me give you some examples from other In France, small businesses, enraged about the ones, have organized themselves politically. What usually are fighting in France: a conservative and the Socialist Party (more likely the working class). The little businesses position very interesting in French politics. They say to help your candidates win? You have got to give will otherwise subject us to, the unfair we will make an alliance with the working them in getting better deals for workers." over and over again, in the last century in often dominating the national assembly and so worked. If you have ever been to France, you of virtually every city. Big business is there, it is limited and constrained by this political Here is another example. In Germany, the working corporations and forced through in elections by There has been a law now in Germany for many 2000 workers, has to give almost half to individuals elected by the workers. Imagine but that is in Germany, the most successful limit the power. Those big corporations cannot 50 percent of the board of directors will vote for other things they want to do. So, there is Government supervision has not proven to prevent their domination. It has limited the efforts of people to make those kinds of The problem cannot be solved unless we We would like to believe we aspire to a democratic imagine we have already gotten there. If you are a democracy ought to decide and put up to a vote want mega corporations to have the kind of power most of the regulatory commissions and have They shape the culture through their control and oligopolists. Therefore, there are hardly any then let us democratize the enterprise in the any mega corporations? Do we want none? Do we want people who say: "Well, if you want modern economic One of my teachers, many years ago, John Kenneth accept big corporations because otherwise we answers to that. Number one: that is a proposition were small companies. If you ever talk to someone three Martinis (they are used to that), you get in this company when we were much smaller. Now takes very long. We do not grow very fast." Maybe we would be all better off with Maybe we could decide as a society that supervision that big companies do. We can take insurance and take it more generally. Let us size. If you want to go beyond a certain and rules and regulations that we do not impose ones from abusing the gains that they get Let us make more smaller firms. Let us encourage smaller firms, especially, if we believe in the Maybe, let us be even bolder and imagine that not which don't get to an overwhelming size (the way worker co-ops. You know we advocate for that. not governed by profit. They are not governed by time. If they grow, we can have more companies to company that becomes a behemoth, an enormity can shape the economy we live in to respond to responding to a small number of capitalists who enormous power they wield. They love their ability pharaohs had in ancient Egypt: you know, the Elon They like it. They promote the PR that is supposed should be this way, or it has to be this way, or It has been a big burden on the United It has led citizens, like us, in the past to fight It is time now, as we see the enormous inequality They are the ones who sit at the top. That is why Bill Gates or the others. It is because they sit They are not wealthy because and clever. We think they are smart, well-known, We allowed that wealth to Even if it were true that we might not generate maybe there is a good argument for sacrificing way of relating to one another in our daily lives corporations. The advertising coming at you from the Coca-Cola ads, young people cavorting on not a choice you made. That is their decision is because they profit from that. Is that really present and the future by those who sit at the I think, in fact, we could learn from the those kinds of industries in the past, from and the struggle that they took. They were outrun to blunt the effectiveness of the movements that the reformists set up. Let us learn from The very core of the problem is how we allow monopolies and oligopolies. That is the root of we are going to solve the problem. It is not that is partly because those very forces there and across to the people who need Thank you very much for your attention. As always, I look forward to speaking