Transcriber: Bob Prottas Hello! My name is Magnus Walker. I left school at 15, Well, 8 weeks ago, and to be honest, But I do appreciate the opportunity and share my story, my journey, You know, having left school at 15, Well, I came to America 28 years ago, and that represented And in those past 28 years, a successful clothing company, and also restored, raced, driven, and collected quite a lot Porsche is a passion for me, and I'll talk But all 3 of those things I had no education in them. I didn't really think I was I didn't really know where I was going. But all three of those things And that common bond for me Freedom to do whatever I wanted to do, I suppose, live my life to the fullest, So coming to America really was a journey, and I'll start my journey in 1977. 1977 in England was sort of a special year. We had this Punk Rock thing going on, and we also had But for me it was a start My father took me to Back then I fell in love with this car. Now any kid growing up in the late '70s, early '80s, of three cars on your wall: or Lamborghini Countach. For some reason I chose Porsche. I even wrote a letter to Porsche and essentially said to them, They wrote back to me, and said: which I thought was pretty funny, and 35 years later, but I'll get to that story So I am this young kid Sheffield's a grim northern steel town There wasn't necessarily So I filed that dream away; and I was watching Motorsports England had James Hunt. And we also had Barry Sheene. He was So even though I didn't grow up my father was a salesman, I did have this dream early on, and somehow this dream involved Porsche. Back then, I was also a pretty competitive sort of a solo sport guy, and I used I became quite competitive. I joined this club called and this guy called Sebastian Coe and ran at the '80, and '84 Olympic Games, Around that same time, with something called heavy metal music. Growing up in Sheffield, It may have been sort of a slightly but there was a lot of music, So, I fell in love with Porsche, doing some middle distance fell in love with heavy metal music, and I had decided by the end I left school in 1982, basically By that time, I'd also figured out So for some reason that was great but wasn't so good for a middle-distance So that sort of faded away. But a little thing and sort of the drive, those memorable moments I'm still running around. I'm still running after my goal. So I bummed around on the dole doing odd jobs, and stuff like that. And I started to hear &quot;Cut your hair, and get a real job.&quot; Well, I was on the dole, no car, taking the bus to places, By the time I turned 17 that I decided, but maybe I should think about So I actually took a yearlong leisure sports management at a college. I heard about this thing What was camp America? I didn't know, but found that Camp America sent kids to work on a summer camp Growing up as a kid, of course, Most of the shows I loved centered Dukes of Hazzard, CHiPs. It involved Evel Knievel; I took this leap of faith, It was a little bit of a strange feeling. I've had these and somehow when my gut generally it's a good thing. So by pure luck I supposed, got on a flight to New York, That's the bus I took to Detroit. It was similar to Sheffield, It also happened to be this sort But I wasn't in Detroit. working with inner-city underprivileged And that was a big culture shock for me, from Sheffield, North of England. I had to adapt pretty quickly. So I adapted pretty quickly and when that camp was over, and I took that bus out west, Union Station 4 a.m. in the morning. I've watched all those TV shows, but I found myself being awakened by a LAPD guy, who told me: I was a little disappointed. I'd seen all these shows in LA where were all the rock stars That wasn't happening in downtown LA. But quickly I found my way to Hollywood, I sort of did a few odd jobs. But there was one pivotal moment within 3 days of being in Los Angeles. I found myself at this YMCA hotel, I went shopping on Hollywood Boulevard, and saw these great PVC alligator print So I bought myself a pair, So I went back to the youth hostel, bought and decide I'm going to the street that So I ended up going down there to Melrose, that was called Retail Slut, and there was a guy working there and his name was Taimie. Taimie says to me -- started a conversation: I said: "Hey, you know, I had to think quick on my feet. Just sort of jokingly, and he said, At this point I hadn't thought but I said the first number He said, "Okay. I'll take 8 pairs." So I ran right up to Hollywood Boulevard, went back down, I realized in that one hour transaction, literally within being in LA for 3 days, working construction in England. So I thought, &quot;Maybe LA is a place They speak English, It was Guns N' Roses, Motley Crue, it was Fast-forward to 1989. I'm selling second-hand clothing going to yard sales, buying old Levi's, cowboy boots, western shirts. Venice Beach back then was a lot of European people coming through. Little by little this grew into a business and we ended up outfitting to Madonna, and everyone in between. We started wholesaling Back then Hot Topic had five stores, So we sort of went from making to making thousands of pieces of clothing. Well, in 1994, we realized being in Venice We moved downtown, and rented a loft Serious Clothing then started doing and also a lot of outfits for magazines, Serious Clothing had its own unique style. We took fabrics that were We used some car seat fabrics, and made non-conventional materials, and basically doing what we like to wear. Well, by 2000, we realized we'd paid Hey, let's buy our own building. So we ended up finding this building -- Oh, that was me back then, So that was me pre-beard, Serious was one of the top 10 So anyway, 2000, my wife Karen People said, &quot;You're crazy, former desolate industrial area.&quot; Long story short, Our gut feeling felt good. Why we're paying two people's mortgages when we could own our own building. About a year later, there was an article in the LA Times, We got a phone call, the building for a music video? Bang! Before you know it, Well, hey, we've been filming scenes doing things from low-budget still shoots, and over a dozen reality shows We met a lot of interesting people, but we We were building our dream, and operated our clothing company So we'd accidentally fallen into another This is LA, it's movie town, we've met They always say: &quot;How did you get here?&quot; Well, we tell them, Remember that story, I was a 10-year-old Fell in love with Porsche I didn't buy my first Porsche till 1992. Serious Clothing had become I was racing around getting 2001, I took my aggressive and joined the Porsche Owners Club. I learned how to do club racing, was doing 50 track days a year. Turn around to probably 2008-2009, I'd &quot;Okay, my next passion: I love these cars. Why don't I try and restore Well, I didn't have any I often say that passion You know, if you've got the will, and focus, things tend to happen. Also a little bit of luck, and a leap But I asked a lot of questions, So I got a little bit of interest and I started this blog online. Well, there is a thread on this Porsche And I called my blog And I was sort of like a catch-all And so this was sort of going where it was like something I really And I'd start restoring these cars. Well, about 2 years ago, a pivotal moment About every 10 years these pivotal moments or they're just naturally evolving. We never had this five, We always go back to follow your gut, So having been in the film industry, in making little TV shows, but we weren't quite ready or the compatibility wasn't quite right, So I got a call from this Canadian Well, he'd seen a couple of articles, also a Porsche guy, and he was looking He was sort of sick of doing Bud Light maybe there's more of the Magnus' story So we had a couple of conversations, little over two years ago, on his frequent His original idea was to make Well, our thought was, &quot;What's the worst We'll drive around, race around and maybe get Well, what turned out to be a 32-minute So we shot, I think, in February of 2012, We didn't know but somehow it got picked up it got over 50,000 views, this thing called Facebook. I didn't really know much about it. So I got on Facebook, and at this time So I'm not really internet savvy, I keep getting all these friend requests you know, Spain and Indonesia, Well, this trailer for that 3-minute film, it got blogged, reblogged and reblogged. So this was a leap of faith project, on a shoestring budget, and they were doing this So, little by little I started posting Well, to me being sort we shopped it around a few film festivals. Somehow it got into this thing which I described as the rainy version I'm from England, what are the chances in front of an audience similar to this? So Karen and I flew to London, and we on a Saturday night There was a buzz about this film. Well, we decided, &quot;Okay, So October 15, the film went online, I got a phone call from Jay Leno. Jay Leno had seen the film, Well, that started the Avalanche of what All of a sudden, this is my life before and this is my life after. Now at this point, we've been doing and we weren't quite as motivated You know, we always said we design but over the past few years So we took this leap of faith, really is the freedom So we decided we were going This was the baby that had enabled us Now it wasn't like we gave up on Serious, But what it did was once we decided it allowed us some breathing room. We didn't know what was coming next, but So once we closed that door, I've probably done a hundred I think by closing Serious' door, Remember me telling about Porsche, About a month after the film came out, Basically they'd seen the film and was and realized they'd written me Ironically in the film, Tamir asked me: &quot;What do you think Porsche would think I said: &quot;I don't know. I hope So Porsche wrote me a second letter. I wish I had the first one, They invited me to go visit and tour the museum which I went to do. Purely by coincidence, Well after that We did a couple of events with Porsche. Hosted these events It was a worldwide dealer event, and incorporated me into this workshop what Porsche does restoration, I think they sensed I have this thing -- Porsche passion is what I said it was, and it's something that and you can't market, and you can sell it. So from then Porsche integrated me into in Essen, Germany, and basically started and incorporate me into The Porsche connection was quite simple, but also came from the film, We got approached by Oakley, from Bentley chief designer, and we It's almost like these people I was some sort of focus group, on what did I think I'm scratching my head &quot;I'm just a guy doing my own thing,&quot; people seem to have responded to it. Well, I get a lot of emails from people and the greatest thing I suppose is the fact that people found the film, So if there's one message what I've done over the past 28 years always going on my gut feeling that was often the case to know, and just stay motivated, stay dedicated. We just did what we like to do, quite nice for us. I often say I'm on this open road, We'll see what comes next, and allowing me to share my story. (Cheering) (Applause)