On today's episode of You Asked: Is the Hisense do you make sure your TV is doing the upscaling one this week: Do older TVs like CRT and plasma Welcome back, everyone! I'm Caleb Denison, the show where I answer questions you asked in tech questions. If you've got a question for me, and we'll see if your question gets We are starting this glorious episode with &quot;Hi Caleb or whoever monitors these what version of Calman software you used UX--&quot;as well as the meter that you use that You know what? I'm not going to lie--it kind I hate it when I'm cynical, but I'll answer the question. I use Calman the latest version, though I did I'm using the Calibrite Display Plus HL, which though it's known to go well higher than go above 10,000 nits? That's not clear. I professional user with that particular meter, Calman has a profile for that meter built in, using an i1 Pro 2, which is slower but much I got both with Calman's profile and my own Now, I could just leave it at that, but so I'm going to go just a little bit further. I sent them to Hisense and asked them to &quot;Yep, we're getting results in the same channel recently ran through the 110 UX. which is extremely fancy and accurate--and I think, and they got a reading as high as 24,000 more realistic testing conditions, which is close So yeah, I'm pretty comfortable with the I said very clearly that that peak and in reality, the TV is unlikely to small specular highlights during real that it's the brightest TV I've ever tested ever made. I mean, you don't need a meter to Phil Santiago writes in, wondering how he can tell upscaling work or if the TV is doing the work. and he remarks that he often watches standard and he wants to make sure he's getting the best Time, Phil noticed that the image it was his premium TV processor doing the So first, Phil, I'm going to walk you through ensure that the TV is doing the upscaling, I would recommend you do the same if as it's likely to be better than the one in from researching your purchases. And then, why you should not expect Land Before Time and with a TV like the X95L, which is known for having Lucky for you and me, I also happen to have a Sony path: on your remote, you press the home button Screen Settings. In the Screen Settings menu, Resolution to Auto or Original. Now, you may also depending on your player and its region. If in setting, you can turn that to Off. You may also Output settings, and if there are, you can tell and it'll just match up whatever Now, with all of that done, I don't think you Before Time or other titles like it. Land Before movie, which was captured by a camera and printed which would be digitally scanned, will have it that you don't get from digital animation. to digital can vary widely--that's why some great transfer.&quot; They're referring to how well Now, I don't have a lot of personal experience the movie--but a quick search shows that the here's the thing: film grain is really and display perspective. If a really good scan is the original film's character. But that film grain I witnessed this issue firsthand very recently grain and can look really messy on the TV. And to distinguish intentional film grain from noise, in doing so, introduces other visual artifacts effect by turning off all digital noise a TV that didn't kind of exacerbate film grain Also, the larger the screen you're watching on, 1080p can look amazing in many cases. 720p is pull up something on YouTube to see that. And great, especially on 85&quot; TVs and larger. It's a can't polish a tur--.&quot; Another more tactful way of garbage out.&quot; But I think that seems rude The next question comes in from Matthew Dickinson, complexity of the question and the comments conversation. But I'll tell you now that more to the point, an assertion--that CRT than modern TVs, with what is supposed to you can probably sense right now that it's Matthew writes, &quot;Hang with me here, guys. I was such as those used for older TVs like plasma and color. That is what is claimed by some people, what's written under the description of his video, Quote: &quot;If you own a plasma TV, you have probably same natural colors as your plasma TV. This is the LED light that all TVs use today--not true--cuts the bandwidth displays, while the light that comes making them wide bandwidth displays. LED step backward. It cuts the color spectrum, high power and produce less heat, but at the cost as natural as incandescent light. But if you you are wrong. The CRTs--this is important, and as such, they are still today the Matthew then goes on to point to the fact that he sun directly as a point of comparison, but Matthew do today's OLEDs, especially QD-OLEDs, not display Okay, so first off, I'm going to go way, way said this the benefit of the doubt and say like plasma and CRTs look more natural--and, in an kind of way, just had a hard time expressing it is expressed is super twisted, and I started but instead, I think I'll just speak to the as to why someone might feel a CRT or plasma First, let's talk about what a CRI is, are using this measure as a basis for their color. CRI stands for Color Rendering Index, and like light bulbs, to indicate how accurately to natural light or the sun. Now, CRI as a but it isn't really applied to displays, Displays create color through a totally from pixels rather than reflecting it off So just to be clear, a high CRI number--which source that, when shown on an object, helps were seeing that object illuminated by the sun. object that is red, and it looks the correct in the sun. That's what CRI is supposed to do. if a TV's light source had a high CRI, then it but that's not how things work when you are So let me explain. Let's start with the fact that a picture--not today, anyway--and even if they did, Here's how TVs actually work, right? A CRT TV, or one each for red, green, and blue, and those or blue when you shoot those electrons at to create very high-quality red, green, and they put out when red, green, and blue Now, plasma TVs used UV light to excite and those gases could also create very which when combined, also created very good white usually blue, which is coated with white light, and then that white light gets carved This approach is what created TVs that had a hard because the white light created by the backlight quantum dots--which are in most of what we helping create higher quality red, green, and blue OLED TVs, be they WRGB OLEDs or QD-OLEDs, don't these TVs glow when you apply electricity to them, OLEDs use a blue OLED coated with a yellow filtered into colors, while QD-OLEDs use a blue pure RGB display. The colors that OLED TVs create which means that in a WOLED TV, the color filter red, green, and blue, and the QD-OLED doesn't need QD-OLED TVs is so revered and why these TVs can So some TVs create white light, and then they while other TVs create red, green, and blue every other color. In either case, the most color is to have very narrow peaks on red, to not be too blue or cold, and you don't TVs produce the most accurate color because and not only do OLED and some QLED TVs create but they cover a much wider color gamut In any case, to get the very best results some TVs are deadly accurate right out of the while other TVs need a bit more help is set up well--or taking it a step further, accurate color; they express whatever creator intended it to look natural or not is is a movie series where nothing is natural. So why, then, do some folks swear that CRT and I can only theorize, but I think a lot are a bit more muted. They look and feel more and high-brightness color can feel jarring. so the slight bias toward green, as which is the case with QD-OLED, isn't And by the way, there is a difference between what accurate, which is why the best calibrators word for it. They'll use their visual expertise Now, I know that was a lot. We covered everything line is, CRT TVs and plasma TVs--the very best that look; you may feel it is more natural. But they are not as accurate or as natural as today's that LED backlights brought in a bunch of problems produced was a big source of those problems, but that. And when it comes to OLED, they're just prefer CRT or plasma TVs, but not in the color Thanks so much for watching, everyone. I hope please let me know down in the comments. Slap deep is something that we actually want for this approachable and surface-level. Thanks, as always, see you on the next one, and until then, here