Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. And we are in Santa Monica, which of course means that the &quot;V&quot; in &quot;Vsauce&quot; as in five questions from you guys. Our first question comes from &quot;@notch&quot;. He didn't ask this of me in particular, answer is. an Earth that's perfectly spherical and a rope, stretched around the equator snugly. What would happen if that rope was just, isn't very much, but because of the relationship and a radius, six meters of extra rope would allow the the earth, but one meter above it, all the way around. That's cool, but what if instead of a rope we used something more rigid, like a structure, a bridge and we built the bridge all the way around the Earth. And then, all at once, destroyed its supports. Would it float? but down is in the opposite direction Well, it turns out such a scenario would be incredibly everywhere, and if you follow @tweetsauce just how much gravity changes, simply based on the density of rock below. When you factor in the Sun and the Moon, not gonna stay where it is. violently hula hooping around the known material strong enough to do that. bridge pieces flying everywhere. A sphere around the earth would be a bit Not so much. The ring, even if spinning, would rapidly Last week you guys asked me a question Let's say I was stranded in the but it was going to take a while. but I was hungry - dying of starvation - would it make sense to amputate one of my legs and eat it? it kinda makes sense, right?! I'd have my entire leg to eat as food, and I would have one less limb that I would need to keep alive. The only problem is that the trauma your limb would greatly exceed the benefit you would get that limb on your body, because your body's process of using the process of digestion. and let it wither away, keeping you alive. How does hair know when to stop growing? It's a good question, because the hair on my arm, which there's a lot of, never grows any longer than this. And if I were shave my arm off, right where it is right now. But head hair is different. For instance, my hair - what's left of it - But no other animal has that situation. saying, wow, look how long my hair is So, why do humans have head hair that grows so long, but body hair elsewhere that stops Well, first things first. The hair on your head will not keep growing for ever. Typically around six years of growth is the limit. When hair grows, it is in what is known as its head that phase can last up to six years. But the anagen phase of hair elsewhere is much shorter. Except in cases like this guy, whose have allowed him to set the world record Humans probably lost their fur coats, because it didn't really help us hunting And unlike other animals, and could make clothing to keep ourselves warm To be sure, long hair that falls over But leading theories also argue our fault. A result of the fact that early humans picked mates that could grow longer hair on their heads. Mates that could do that were probably healthier and in colder climates literally had a built-in hat to keep their body warm. One of the questions I get the most Those little dots or squiggles that you see a bland scene, like the clear blue sky. Eye floaters are made out of little fibrals as you age. And you can't look directly of your eye. Turning your eye to look and the floater as well. that they are almost always microscopic. You can't see them with the naked eye, except when they are inside your eye. If you were to pull an eye floater out, it's close enough to the retina to leave a shadow on the retina and floaters. Finally, how much would Wikipedia weight if i printed all the text out and bound it into books? there's a Wikipedia article about this very topic. The English-language Wikipedia contains forty five million words, which, if printed at the density of the about 1,759 volumes. Which would look like this. Altogether they would weigh about 7,000 pounds. If you're between the ages of 13 and 18, you may want to check out the Google Science Fair. It's an amazing competition. make that Earth bridge animation for me. So be sure to check out GoogleScienceFair.com. And I'll keep checking out Los Angeles. with Kevin and Jake from Vsauce2 and 3 for the first time ever. The three of us have never been in one sure you're subscribed to us, because amazing videos will come soon. And as always, thanks for watching.