- My next guest may only be 10 years old, but she has already taken with over 10 million views. Take a look. Do love you Oh-Oh-Oh Yeah Only you Hey, hey I do, I do Only you (audience applauds) - Hey everybody, please welcome (upbeat funky music) Hey! - Hi. (audience cheers) - Hey, what's up, Skye? Girl, you better look at you. Girl, you better be fabulous. (audience applauds and cheers) Boy, look at you little Skye. How you doing? - Good. - Girl, you just as - Thank you. - Where you from? - Well, I'm from Dallas, Texas. - Now, you looked pretty How often do you get - Well, I don't just sing at weddings. I sing at funerals, and more. - You sing &quot;If Only You - Well, no. (laughs) (audience laughs) I sang &quot;Take Me to the - Oh, okay. I was fixin' to say. If you laying there dead, - I like to be- If only you knew (audience laughs) I'm sorry. - I like to be there during and times of joy. - What type of music do - I like old school music. (audience applauds) People who sing about I love artists like Tina Marie, (audience applauds) - Prince, - Anita Baker. - And especially Miss Patti LaBelle. - Yeah. Especially Miss- What do you wanna be when you're older? - I don't wanna wait until I'm older to become what I wanna be. And I wanna be a diva, and an entertainer. (audience applauds) And an entertainer is somebody who acts, sings, dances, and more. I make music and publish it. I want it to to last for generations and (audience applauds) Just like Miss Patti LaBelle. - It looks like you're on your way. You're doing really well. So you gonna perform a song for us today. What is it? - &quot;If Only You Knew&quot; - Well, performing &quot;If Only You Knew&quot; by the legendary Patti LaBelle. Accompanied by award-winning my buddy Rob Lewis. Give it up for Skye Turner. (audience applauds) Do need you Oh, if only you knew How much I do Do need you Oh, if only you knew How much I do I do need you Oh, if (audience applauds) If (audience applauds) If only you knew (audience applauds) You don't know I said you don't know Oh, I say you don't know That I love you Ooh - Sing. And I (audience applauds and cheers) (mellow music) You are If only you knew How much I do Do need you Oh, if you only know How much I do, do need you Oh if - Baby, sing. (audience applauds and cheers) - Hi, Steve. (audience applauds and cheers) - [Patti] So sweet. - Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the (audience applauds and cheers) - Skye, you are amazing. You're a singing angel. - Thank you. - Oh, God. When I heard And somebody said, &quot;She's a baby Patti.&quot; And when I heard this little baby sing, I said, &quot;My goodness, God is good.&quot; You're a star. - Thank you. (audience applauds and cheers) - This is the best moment of a talent that I've Ever. Ever. - I know it. You're awesome. - Thank you. - Talk. - Thank you. I've always wanted to meet you. (audience applauds) - Oh. - And I hope I grow up and the singing sensation that you are. (audience applauds) - God, just so articulate and so awesome. (audience applauds) - When Patti came down the (audience laughs) Sing? (audience applauds) Lemme tell you something, this Thank you to Skye. Thank you Rob Lewis. And thank you to the - She's starting off perfectly. She has it all. And she's fearless. And she's not big-headed. You know some of those they get like that ego and it shouldn't go up that fast. She's leveled. I can't give her any advice. She already know what not to do. - There are some kids at my school, ever since my video singing They've been jealous, 'cause I've been getting Yeah. - So how do you handle that? - I just keep going, I mean. The kids who were jealous Just so they wouldn't include me. - Really? - So really now, I don't I can't say family or friends. - Not many friends? Not one friend? What? They're that jealous? Shouldn't that make you feel proud? Because you have Don't ever let it bring you down. They're gonna try to come Yeah. You're strong. A lot of people in show business felt that way about Patti LaBelle. They didn't want me in 'cause my mouth was so strong, My voice was so big and loud, and I never kept it to myself And you're not gonna make me sing less because you're jealous. It's like blowing out my candle, so there's can shine brighter. But it doesn't work, honey. It never works. I'm 74. I'm singing like a 20 year old. - Our grandmother's favorite artist. - Really? Is she living? - Yes. - How old is she? - Like, she's 60. - She's young. - Want me to talk to her right now? Want me to talk to her on the phone? - Yes. Ooh yes, please. Mom, let her talk. - Don't say nothing. Don't say nothing. Let me see it. - Hey, Mom. All right. Hold on one second. - Felicia Green, it's Patti LaBelle. - [Felicia] Oh, my God. It's like I'm fixin' to fall - (Patti laughs) Don't fall. - I'm not playing. - [Felicia] Oh, my God. - Oh, I was just with Skye. We sang together. We're having a conversation. She's teaching me things, She's my new best friend. - [Felicia] Oh, that's so sweet. Oh, may God bless you. - God bless you, too. - [Skye's Family] Aww! - [Felicia] Lord, have mercy. Thank you for saying hello to me. - Have you ever seen my show before? - [Felicia] I have seen your cooking show. I've got your cookbooks. I got a lot of stuff about you. I love you. - Oh, whenever I come close to Dallas, I'm gonna invite you to my live show. - Okay? - All right. - And I want you to - get up on stage with me. - [Felicia] several times. - Well, you gotta get on - [Felicia] Oh, my God. My kids tell me I can't dance. - My grandkids did. - We'll get her ready. - Oh, well you stay healthy, Felicia. - [Felicia] All right. Thank I appreciate you calling me. - It was my pleasure. - [Felicia] Thank you. And - Okay, honey. Bye-bye. - Thank you. - Aw. - That's my baby. I'll see you when I - Hey, you made it to I got a lot more that you're gonna enjoy. So just click to watch the next one. And make sure you subscribe to