(wind blowing) (helicopter whirring) (calm music) - Dubai is exciting. I love Dubai for so many reasons, and I've been here for 14 years. I thought I was gonna stay They come over to Dubai. They're like, &quot;Yeah, we'll &quot;We'll stay for two years.&quot; 14 years later, there's a reason for that. So it's always moving. It's quick. It's fast paced. There's things happening Things change all the time. You're meeting new people all the time. You're seeing things being built. There's new ideas. Everything goes online in an instant, and that's what I love about this place. I probably wouldn't be Supercar Blondie if I didn't live in Dubai. - What's up, everybody? It's Enes here, and welcome to Dubai. Today, we're checking out this newly constructed on &quot;Billionaires Row&quot; in Palm Jumeirah. This house features five 13,702 square feet of enclosed area built on a 13,590-square-foot lot. And it is currently on the As always, we will leave more information in the description of this video, so make sure to check that out. And before we start our tour, I wanna give big thanks to the and the listing brokerage, B1 Properties, for giving us the honor to all of you. And, now let's begin. (bright music) (bell dings) We're gonna start our Beautiful modern design, And as we turn back and look we have travertine-clad on with these decorative concrete And this home consists of four levels because we have a really where you can access it with this driveway on my left-hand side. Property looks great, nicely landscaped with these tall trees. And you have this walkway On my left-hand side, we have the water feature glass-enclosed entry, and Let's go inside. (chill music) Spacious entry. Beautiful We have a seating area Marble back wall. Light fixture above. And this part is glass-enclosed. And on the other side, we have the water feature Coming this way, we have another opening where we have the elevator staircase on the left, and we're gonna cover this Now, coming to this opening, we go straight into the great room. This is the focal point of the main floor. Nice open seating area, minimalist lines. 23-foot-high ceiling. And on this side, we have this floor-to-ceiling your backyard and your amazing views. We have the infinity edge I mean, this is incredible. And coming back to the seating area, we have Flexform furniture throughout. Stone coffee table. Above us, we have this which is a thin cut strip that looks really exquisite. TV on my right-hand side. And throughout the room on the walls, we have oak paneling, vertical onyx slabs with back second floor is all clad that looks really great. On top of that, you can see all these picture and those openings are or the bedrooms with built-in shutters. That way, you can either the way we have it right now, or you can close it Regardless, room is amazing. Kitchen's on my left. Amazing views right in front of us. This room is really special. - [Mikey] Yeah, this is incredible. This is our second time The house we toured last time was deeper into one of the fronds. The fronds are basically the of The Palm. This house is near the end of one. So we have way more water, and it just feels way more open. - Absolutely. It's really close to the Crescent, which is the island so you get more open, better and it's just a great spot to maybe go jet boarding, We have the Atlantis right in front of us. Royal Atlantis around the corner. It's pretty awesome. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's incredible. - Now, let's continue our tour. Right on the other side, This is another spacious seating area, and it feels a little bit more intimate because ceiling heights here We have leather-paneled walls. Beautiful onyx slabs that with back lighting. Looks great. We have the wood-clad ceilings And right in the center, you have the seating area with sandblasted travertine coffee And on that side, we have a ceiling and floor-mount which gives great dimension to the space. Warm, cozy facing the And on top of that, we have these motorized the space to the outdoors. These glass doors are from Euro Systems. They're super efficient, thin profile, and they do a great job to the outdoors and Lastly, we have the Just a beautiful space. And there's one more detail We have this glass section and down below me is a because this section here looks into the subterranean garage. That part of the home is super exciting. We have some of the most sought-after cars in the world down below us. I can't wait to show it to you guys. But for now, we're gonna continue our Now, coming back to the great room, we have this door on my to a spacious guest quarters Off of the hallway, we which is your built-in closet. And, Mikey, can we get a closeup? I mean, look at these glass doors and each one of these LED lighting. These cabinets are all specked out. You have every single and it looks super elegant. Now, let's go this way. We have this marble wall from the bedroom itself. Queen size bed. Seating area. And this room feels very And on my left-hand side, you have the cantilevered roof line. Overhang detail here. And because of that, you kinda break the sun That's why it's a little bit more shaded, a little bit more private. And I just think it's because it's on the main floor, it's totally detached from easy access to the front door. Just an awesome bedroom. Now, let's go this way. Of course, we have the everything you need. And coming here, we have bookmatched marble back wall. And this marble is called and we're gonna see this on the floors, on vanities, Now, coming here, we have the bathroom. Floating vanity design. Two vessel sinks from Antonio Lupi. Chrome fixtures. We have the walk-in shower all AXOR fixtures, water And this door opens back to the hallway that we entered the bedroom from. Now, let's take everybody and I wanna mention one more thing. I wanna give huge credit to the developer, Alpago Properties. They have assembled an amazing team when it comes to designing this home. They had SAOTA for exterior design. They had Massimo Castagna for interior design. Then, they had Interni for furniture. And that just shows how to design something truly one-of-a-kind. And I do think they have That's why we are honored and that's why I'm really Now, before we leave the great room, there's one more detail here. Mikey, can we get a closeup on this glass, beautiful foosball table? So I saw this yesterday and I was curious. I was like, &quot;This looks really nice. &quot;Maybe I would like to This is from Giorgetti. And this foosball table which is around $18,000, and it is definitely but it looks beautiful. - [Mikey] We can split it. - Maybe, maybe. Still a lot. - [Mikey] Still a lot, yeah. For sure. All right, let's continue our tour. Right on the other side, we have the kitchen and the dining area. It's another beautiful open space. Motorized sliding glass doors Perfect indoor, outdoor flow. Right in the center, we have this stunning Henge looks beautiful. And above that, we have that goes all the way to the kitchen. Another great space. Can you just imagine sitting down here, looking at these views, Cabinetry on the back, all Poliform. We have the glass cupboards here. And I know developers for saying this. But normally, they have a full-sized unfortunately, they have to supply shortages. And that's why for us to be they have placed a nice cover plate here. But yeah, if you buy this house, you get a full-sized Gaggenau wine fridge. Now, right next to that, I really like these doors and you can close 'em off if you wanna get the minimalist look. But currently, they have left it open. Looks awesome. Open shelving. Yeah, it's a great - [Mikey] Yeah, I really Those salt and pepper - It's actually not staging. Every single accessory, furniture, fixture that you see in this of the property. Meaning, it's fully And Mikey, if you buy this And I agree, the salt and pepper grinder, they look pretty cool. - [Mikey] Yeah, for sure. - Now, let's continue our tour. We have the rest of the appliances here. Your oven setup, espresso maker, and we have the freezer here. Beautiful. And now, let's focus We have two islands that are from Henge. And look at the fabrication the edges, the cuts. And on top of that, instead of the usual conventional this actually comes in which makes the kitchen look On this one, we have the sink All marble. Looks absolutely gorgeous. And on this side, we have five burners, two downdraft ventilation. And again, the angles, these two islands look Now, on this side, we have a massive picture window. And to create some separation, they have placed this metal bookshelf, which looks really nice. And again, once you open up you have that perfect and this space comes to life. Now, I wanna take everybody this way. We have this door opening up First door opens up to the chef's kitchen. Poliform cabinetry, stainless gas stove, oven, uppers, And to make this space they have used shallow cabinets here. Now, getting up or getting let's go check out the room and that's the laundry room. Two washers, two dryers, sink, cabinetry, everything you need. And coming here, since this we have an access to the outside This door right here opens up single bed, separate AC and it comes with a full bathroom. Now, coming here, we have another hallway. Beautiful marble floors. And the same marble floors We have porcelain walls. Antonio Lupi stone pedestal I really like the curvature Toilet on this side. Great powder room for the main level. Now, lastly, coming here, we're at the landing of the elevator, which is on my left-hand side. And this opening takes And of course, you have to two floors, and it also goes down to your lower level. But before we check out these spaces, I wanna open up all these so we can check out the backyard. (chill music) We're gonna start our of the family room. Seamless indoor, outdoor flow. And right in front of us, we have this raised Pergola design above. And this is your outdoor dining area. We have the outdoor shower on this side. And coming here, this is your Novara This is where we have the your fridge, and it really complements Now, I wanna talk about the pool design. It runs the entire width of this plot. It looks amazing. Infinity edge. We have the first Baja shelf here. Second Baja shelf on this side. Jacuzzi right here. And it looks so inviting. And I wanna talk about the of this pool. So since we have a subterranean garage, waterproofing of this pool Not only have they gone out of their way to put multiple layers of waterproofing, they also worked with this company where they got each one of inside of the pool That way, everything fits perfectly. That way, it really complements and the aesthetics of this Now, we are right in This glass assembly here is just massive. Outdoor seating area. And your backyard continues. Now, we have the sliding from the kitchen and the dining area. Perfect indoor, outdoor flow. We have the water feature your Baja shelf, fire feature. I mean, this is amazing. And looking back, the architecture of this And just like the front facade, we have the same travertine-clad and these decorative House looks great on the exterior. I think SAOTA did a phenomenal Also, this frond is called because there are 30 signature and six of them are by Alpago Properties. What signature villa with over 13,000-square-foot lot, which is a really generous to the rest of The Palm. And that's why this And on top of that, it's so close to the Crescent In fact, beach is literally right there. And within a few steps, you I mean, look at our views. We have the Atlantis hotel here, the Royal Atlantis And being this close to the water, you can go paddle boarding, Water is super clear. Honestly, this setup And that wraps our tour on the Now, let's go back inside, so we can check out the lower level. (bright music) - Palm Jumeirah is a huge part of the Dubai real estate scene. If you say you live on The Palm, people already know you live well. So there's this kind of that you don't get many There are some other super of course, but The Palm The one thing that blows my mind is this, where we're sitting right now. When you said this house on The Palm has an underground garage, I was like, &quot;No freaking way.&quot; Never heard of. I've never seen a modern Now, they may be there, but I've personally never seen one with an underground garage because we are on a palm tree It's very, very difficult to Like, we are under the So to make sure that your cars, like $20 million worth of cars, are protected when you're basically under the sea is kind of crazy. So this is what blows my You can actually drive and everyone else is parking It's really nice to be able to have this and kind of put them away - Here we are on the lower floor landing. Beautiful marble floors. And this discreet door right here opens up to the utility area where you have access to your pumps, pool motors, and every single utility you to servicing this property. We also have another discreet door here. Opens up to the driver's room. Think about this room as You have a single bed here, And around the corner, we have a full bathroom and a washer and dryer. Now, coming back to the landing, elevator access on our left-hand side. And then, you have this to the subterranean garage. This is an incredible space, and there are so many And I wanna show you guys all these cars. First, let's talk about the It's an experience to from the street level and come Garage door opens up and That way, you have this very We have these strip lights going into the walls, and going all the way up on the ceiling, which gives this garage a And this space, I don't it's a car gallery because you can either where we have eight cars here, or if you wanted to stack cars here, you can put additional four one here, one there. In total, you can put up to 14 cars here and really take advantage of this space. Now, it's a really big deal for homes in Palm Jumeirah to have It's actually super, super rare. And when you think about it, water table is somewhere around here, which means 50 feet this And on top of that, you So you really have to go out of your way to do an amazing job We actually had a chance on this frond a few months ago and had a chance to talk to And they told me that to meet for waterproofing, they basically went double. And that way, they can be certain and waterproof in the future. Now, look at the lineup around us. These cars are amazing. I'm gonna point out a how much they each cost This is a McLaren SLR Mansory beautiful carbon fiber body. Right next to that, we have a LaFerrari Aperta, And above that is the glass opening that we saw in the family room where you can look down to Amazing detail. Next to that, we have a McLaren And I'm sure by now, you guys All these cars have First First Motors is an amazing in Dubai, and they have the craziest in my life. And these cars are just the proof of that. - [Mikey] Yeah, Enes and to go there last time we were in Dubai. We actually did a full They have over a hundred million Just an absolutely insane showroom. I don't know if there's anything like but Alpago actually owns - Correct. Alpago Group They also own First Motors, and they like to be the And that's why when it comes to cars, they have the best. When it comes to properties, they like to push boundaries - [Mikey] Not to mention as developers, building garages like this since they're actually car people, they kinda know how to make - Absolutely. I mean, look how cool this space looks. We have the Ford GT Beautiful art installation. On the other side, we have a Black Series AMG Then, we have the Ferrari F12, Another LaFerrari, around $3.5 million. And lastly, the crown we have a Bugatti Chiron Super Sport 300+. This is actually the world's fastest car with a top speed of 494 kilometers, which is around 305 miles an hour. It costs about $6.5 million. And without a doubt, the most beautiful car I Look at this thing. - [Mikey] Pretty incredible. And you said all the furniture Do the cars? - Unfortunately, not. These cars are around $20 million, half the price of the home. And they do not come with Also, they gave me the key of the Bugatti. In fact, Mikey, why don't we open up the door here and show everybody inside. I mean- in a Bugatti before. Let's see what it's like. - [Enes] This car is gorgeous. In fact, - I'm gonna sit on the driver's side. It's amazing. Let me see if I can get in with my suit. And there you go. In fact, they said, &quot;Enes, if you wanna So let's give it at go. (car engine rumbling) - [Mikey] Wow. - Insane, huh? (car engine revving) - [Mikey] Give it a rev. (car engine revving) - Okay, that's good enough. - [Mikey] That's wild. - That is insane. And that wraps are tour Now, let's go back to the staircase, so we can check out the first floor. (calm music) Here we are on the first floor landing. We have three bedrooms on this level. Junior primary here. Primary And we have this door opening up to the smallest bedroom out of the three. Plaster walls. Queen size bed. Built-in closets. Beautiful marble wall with And then, it transitions on the right-hand side. It's front facing, and we can see those up front right here. And they also have a Juliet balcony. Now, around the corner, Antonio Lupi vanity. Chrome fixtures. These soap holders are also They even have a small little paddle. Walk-in shower, water This is the smallest that we're gonna see on this level. Now, let's go right across to check out the junior primary bedroom. I'm gonna start with the closet here. All Poliform. Same champagne profile that They have it here. Reflective glass. It's just a really exquisite space. And the furniture here, this Cattelan dresser table looks great. Mikey, why don't you go to the other side? That way, we can show everyone On the other side, we have You can see this In fact, let's go check out that space. It starts right here. Freestanding tub. Marble back wall. Skylight above. And on this side, we have from that glass wall. Two vessel sinks. And, Mikey, can we get a closeup? Look how exquisite, look how beautiful these This is the first time we And rest of the bathroom, we have a water closet here with a bidet, walk-in shower with a and just a good-sized bathroom. Now, let's go back to the hallway, so we can check out the Super spacious, facing the Motorized sliding glass doors open up to a private balcony and you have glass railing from the views. We have the king size bed on this side. And on the back, you can see half marble, half wood-paneled wall In front of the bed, we have a really nice Henge light fixture above. And above that, we have with mood lighting really It's another great bedroom. And there's one more detail We talked about this in the great room. We have these glass panels And if you want some privacy, you can actually slide these panels and blend them in with Or you can actually open this up and make the room feel a Now, that's it for the I wanna take everybody so we can check out the primary bedroom. Mikey, what do you think - [Mikey] I really like it. You know, I like Palm Jumeirah. It's something that we don't - We don't. And we're on the hallway, by the way, taking us to the primary bedroom. Massive glass panels looking And this is a great design element because you can even see that connects the landing Now, we're gonna start Let's go check out the bedroom itself. Plaster walls. Porcelain-clad walls here. And we go straight into the room itself. It's definitely a good size. Situated on the left wing, motorized sliding glass doors open up to a private balcony for this room. And look at your views. You have the Atlantis Palm Jumeirah, and the decorative concrete at the backyard, you can actually see them closer here. And it's also a really good-sized balcony. And coming back to the bedroom, king size bed on my right-hand side. Behind that, you have a It's a beautiful slab. And looking up, you have Drop ceiling with mood lighting. Seating area facing the TV. And just like the other bedroom, we have these panels these fixed windows or which allows this room to get a little bit more natural light and it makes the space feel Now, around the corner, of course, we have an amazing primary bathroom. In fact, let's go check that out. We have the vanity setup from the glass back wall. Two vessel sinks. Gorgeous fixtures. And we have these ceiling-mount and makes the space feel Right behind me, we have a freestanding tub And the way they designed this home, they tried to put glass to make these rooms and these Skylight above. Walk-in shower on this and look at the size Fixtures are gorgeous. Your shampoo niche. Beautiful bathroom. Now, let's go to the other side. We have the water closet It leads you to your walk-in closet. But first, I wanna actually You actually have a really to your primary bathroom. It's an open-air space, super private. Outdoor seating area. You have the planter on this side. You know, Dubai has amazing weather which allows you to That's why having spaces I'm gonna close the door You have this door opening for the primary bedroom. Same Poliform cabinetry. Obviously, this is the biggest and space looks phenomenal. Really clean. I love these thin-profile doors. You have a really nice dresser here, and it connects nicely and to your entry hallway. That way, you can either or go straight to your bedroom. Now, that wraps our Let's go back to the staircase, so we can check out the second floor. (bright music) (elevator dings) You can either take this elevator or you can come through which looks awesome with And coming to the landing, we have few exterior doors And going this way, we have this long hallway that takes us to the amazing second floor. We have an outdoor powder room on my right. Let's go have a look. Stone pedestal sink. Floor-mount fixture. Porcelain walls. Great-sized powder room for this level. And going in, on our left-hand side, we have the lounge area But first, I wanna go through this door to check out the only King size bed. Beautiful marble back wall. TV on this side. And of course, we have sliding to the views. And this section actually But on the side, it opens as an additional outdoor Around the corner, we Antonio Lupi vanity here looks great. And I really, really appreciate that this bottom piece here and all the water lines. That way, this bathroom You have your walk-in shower here, mood lighting above, rain head, and you have your toilet Just a good-sized bathroom. And honestly, this is just a great bedroom to really detach yourself and all the bedrooms down below and just be by yourself because you even have which starts right here. Furnishings in this room These are Exteta couches. And just the design of it, I personally really, really like. You have the marble coffee table here. TV on the other side. And this room is really you can open up these to a good-sized Juliet balcony where you can enjoy the views, or you can actually open up on this side to a really nice, That way, you can either and regardless, whichever direction you're you can enjoy the views on both sides. Now, coming here, we have the dining area. This table here costs $26,000, definitely over my price complements the space. And right on the other side, you have a small kitchenette You have a dishwasher, Gaggenau gas cooktop with By the way, dishwasher is located here, and you have your fridge on this side. And on the back, you have wine fridge, microwave, But more importantly, you can just open up and really enjoy the outdoors. We have a really nice seating area here, outdoor dining area on this side, and just like the backyard, we have another outdoor kitchen here. Same brand, sink, grill. And this back patio is actually connected to the Juliet balcony up front where we have the amazing And look at this. I Your infinity edge pool What a special property (upbeat music) All right, everyone. What a day. We got a chance to tour hung out with Supercar Blondie, and heard her thoughts So I wanna give big thanks Her channel link will be in I wanna congratulate the for doing an amazing job with this build, and we can't wait to come to tour their new projects Lastly, I also wanna give big thanks to the listing brokerage, B1 Properties, for giving us the honor to all of you. And if you enjoyed this video, make sure to give us a like, subscribe, and we'll see you guys next week. (calm music)