- Your frontal cortex is that is the freest from genetic influences because it's still being and experience a quarter-century whereas most of the rest of your brain is sculpted by two or three Whoa, we evolved, our genes evolved to free our frontal cortex from and to make it much more sculpted by environmental determinism. - Today on &quot;Big Think,&quot; we delve into a with Dr. Robert Sapolsky. He shares with us his insights on his concept of free and its profound Robert Sapolsky is a at Stanford University, in biology, neurology, and neurosurgery. Renowned as a MacArthur Genius Fellow and a research associate at Sapolsky offers a unique drawing from over three as both a field primatologist and a laboratory neuroscientist. Widely hailed as one of of our time, Sapolsky is the author of several bestselling books, including &quot;Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers,&quot; &quot;The Trouble with Testosterone,&quot; and his latest work, &quot;Determined.&quot; Dr. Robert Sapolsky, thank you for joining - Well, thanks for having me on. It's a pleasure. - So I'm curious, why - Well, I had no plans to, in that I thought I had about five years ago or so. 2017, I published a book called &quot;Behave: The Biology of and it's incredibly- like And in the aftermath, doing and one of the themes that is our behavior is the end product of what happened to us a an hour, a year, a decade, And I figured when I would and take them through this, they'd all come away saying, &quot;Oh, I get it, there's And instead, there'd &quot;You know, given all the stuff it seems like there might be than we often think.&quot; And I realized, &quot;Oh God, I have to write one now of just saying there's no free So that's the follow-up book. - You've written &quot;Behave,&quot; and you've at length explained I'm curious if you could provide us with the most succinct version just to foreground - Sure. Everybody thinks they're seeing free will when we choose something. We're consciously aware of doing it, we know what the consequences Most importantly, we available to us. And for most people that's there's free will. And my whole point is that because you're not asking which is: How did you who would have that intent at that point? And the answer is because of the biology over which you had no control, interacting with the environment over which you had no control, stretching from one second ago to the moment you were an fertilized egg. And when you look at how that stuff works, there's not a crack anywhere in there in which you can insert sort of the everyday - One of the things that is just how much our language that we use to describe human action that feels like free will. I'm curious, how much about the language that you and human behaviors so that or separated from this idea of free will? - Where people sort of get is a difference between- you I could pick up something and I've caused it to I have caused every molecule Is the ability to be a the same thing as free will? No, I may choose to do this at this point but that has nothing &quot;How did I become the sort of person who would say that to you at this point, and do this with my right and not find some item here And people get gummed up and we cause things to happen, We even make decisions as to which thing we're going to make happen, But again, that's not an issue - In preparation for this interview I watched the conversation of the wonderful &quot;Within Reason&quot; podcast. And in that conversation you use this term 'distributed causality' to describe the multitude to a person performing an And I really wanna dig into that. What is distributed causality and how does it influence the or the decisions that humans make? Hey, Big Thinkers. We're gonna return to the interview with Robert Sapolsky in a moment but I wanna talk to you about our Big Think membership program. If you wanna dive deeper you should become a Big Think member and join our members-only where you can watch videos early What is distributed causality and how does it influence the or the decisions that humans make? - Great. Okay. So somebody behaves, and why did they do that? Why did that occur? And part of the answer is, &quot;Well, what went on in their neurons a tenth of a second ago?&quot; But what you're also in the environment in the previous minutes got those neurons to do that?&quot; And you're also asking what did this morning's hormone And you're asking what does in the previous months to decades- trauma, heartache, all of those things change the brain. And then before you know it, you're asking what are the person's and fetal life have to do with it? What are the genes have to do with it? And remarkably, you gotta go What kind of culture were Parentheses in what sort of ecosystems 'cause that had something to do with it. Culture centuries ago, Because your mother mothered in which she was raised in her culture or translated a different way. Your brain was being as a function and part were up to a millennium ago. And the key thing there in is like you're trying to figure out why somebody did something- and this is someone who had a car accident and had massive amounts of And as a result, they can't And it's easy for us to see where some unacceptable behavior Yeah, massive brain damage. There's this big, massive going from that car accident Distributed causality is the for people where there's because what you're doing instead is looking at the gazillion of influence from your ancestors' culture and your fetal life and you're wearing today And it's so much harder to not only see all these little microscopic threads, but to believe that when that is as causative of a cable as something as simple as It's easier for us to see in those cases. It's really hard to see that each of which contribute one-gazillionth of a percentage point - One of the things I was is sort of relay the He's obviously a famous but it seems like it's what I would call something like concentrated causality where we are able to identify what changed and what the change was So do you mind relaying that story for us? - Phineas Gage marks like year zero that brain science had about how we become who we are. 1840s: Phineas Gage was a guy building railroad lines something or other with some explosive TNT and he did something and that blew a 13-pound, up through one of his eyes landing 50 feet away and taking with it Phineas Gage's frontal And the amazing thing with sufficient force all the blood vessels, or anything, he was just &quot;Whoa, that's weird.&quot; And like all sorts of &quot;Whoa, there's a hole there up to the top of your head.&quot; So they took him to the town doctor and showing how bizarrely He rode part of the way or and he got to the doctor like a medical diagnosis. The doctor looked and said, going on there between your And that was about the state And the key thing is who was the foreman of the work crew became this impulsive, foul-mouthed bully doing all sorts of inappropriate stuff, was unable to keep a work schedule, wasn't able to work for years afterward. And what one had just seen in this part of the brain with self-control and gratification, postponement and emotional regulation. And Gage was like the perfect case of one single unsubtle of his winding up having of his behavior. And what we've learned since then is look at a gazillion events all of which are shaping into whether it's good at So he's the one everybody learns And yeah, all you do then and it has the same thing. Your frontal cortex is made of brain stuff and your ability to do the right thing when that's the harder thing to do is made of brain stuff also. - I'd love to dig into And I know other parts of the and even your environment can impact this distributed causality. If say there was like prior to an action or what are some like specific systems that could lead to an individual or a person taking a - So you've got a nice volunteer and you've given them this task, which is they have to decide whether or not to shoot somebody under the following circumstance. They have a fraction of a and to decide if the thing is a cell phone or a handgun. We know exactly the relevance And it turns out all people's ability to decide in a fraction of a second. Are you hungry? Are you tired? Are you scared? Are you stressed? Are you in an environment you consider to be dangerous or benevolent? Is it nighttime? Is it daytime? And as we know, tragically, what's this person's skin color? Are they a young male? All of that stuff. And it shows that your brain will make different decisions as to whether or not that's a handgun based on the stuff that's been exactly as you say. What we also know is say if that person, if they're male, if had been elevated over part of the brain would be part of the brain called the amygdala- and what happens is you look at somebody with a neutral facial expression and you're more likely than average to decide that instead So you're that much more likely to decide it's a handgun and pull a trigger. And if you went through trauma, and had PTSD, post-traumatic your amygdala would have grown bigger and been more reactive and been more likely to send before you had the chance to say, &quot;Wait a second, let's look a second time and see if that really is a handgun- it's a cell phone.&quot; All of this from one second ago to how much stress hormones when you were a fetus as to whether or not you're gonna make a totally tragic decision - In thinking about that I'm in a threatening situation. It's pretty obvious of environmental stimuli I mean, we have reaction times and things of that from like I get that. I can see how those other that I'm making in that particular moment. But one of my favorite was actually about judges and parole and how their decisions to things that they're Do you mind talking about - I love this study, and I should say it's I should also say a number have challenged the results and the authors have completely and the basic finding has been replicated, all of that, it's solid. So this was a study published in this very prestigious journal, looking at a bunch of parole board judges and all the parole decisions they made over the course of the years, hundreds, looking at the simple question, is there anything that and who they sent back to jail? And it turned out that the was how many hours it had been since the judge had eaten a meal. Appear before the judge right after they've just had a great lunch and you had approximately by a few hours later, Oh my God, what's this about? What this is about is It takes a huge amount of energy to run, and it's 3% of your body mass, and if you got low blood glucose, your brain isn't gonna work as well, and especially the parts of the brain like your frontal cortex that are saying, &quot;Wait, wait, wait, don't and send them back to jail. Think about this guy's life. Think about his perspective in the world. Think about, think a do the harder thing,&quot; and to instead say, &quot;Just And what's amazing to me is some of this workings of it, but what's also amazing is you sit down one of those judges at that point and say, &quot;Whoa, that's really interesting. Remember right after lunch, who had done X and you paroled him and just now this guy and you sent him back to jail, The judge isn't gonna talk he's gonna talk about or something and studies If you wanna get a loan from a bank, do not go and ask for one when the person hasn't eaten for hours. If you want somebody to spend more time looking at your resume, if ask him to look at it right after lunch, that yeah- that has Yeah, that's part of what's going on and your brain is embedded in your body. - When I heard that anecdote, like, what do we do with Like specifically from like, if people are performing important actions and making important choices, where things like whether for their body to sort of for them to do sort of some that they need with complex decisions, it feels like that's an easy - Yes, eat something. And I had the singularly on a number of occasions about exactly this and whoa, they do not like hearing about this study. Yeah, that one's an What's not as easy of a fix is, &quot;Whoa, you were exposed to a or &quot;Oh, you were raised in poverty,&quot; or &quot;Oh, your fetal brain because your mother-&quot; where it's way in the past there, I think the easiest take home lesson is every time you're making a decision about why somebody just did stop and question it and and a fifth time and a 10th time. And as part of that decision, because you can't imagine for that person as part of that decision, because their face doesn't as much as an &quot;us's&quot; face does there, just be skeptical and and especially when you're tired and you just wanna make - One of the things this is just like, how do we I think in this context, I think about it in terms of education, and I actually think about it in terms of America's founding fathers. Thomas Jefferson wrote a and how it was important for society to educate future generations. And they were thinking and like what our civic duty is. But I think about these how do we train people How do we get them to where that is the likely course of action that they are going to take? I think about what in those terms as well. So I'm curious, how do that make it possible that a person is going to take is when they're going into a situation where they might be stressed out or they might make a decision that could be harmful to some other person that they stop and reflect and realize all the distributed causality that might be causing them or be prone to a certain action - Fantastic question to question and think a second is did you wind up who could do that, who could do that well? Are you so invested emotionally that you're unwilling Are you like perverse enough that you wanna come up Yeah, how'd that happen? The key thing here is, one of the things that people panic about when you say, &quot;Oh, there's no free will.&quot; I mean, they say, &quot;Oh my they'll run amok and there'll And in addition, if there's no free will, if everything was determined, And you couldn't possibly enormous change happens. And the key thing is we we are changed by circumstances. And we are changed by those circumstances as a function of who we had been made into at the moment we experience it. Look, you got two people, It's totally inspirational, it's great. And one person comes out of They make different They say, &quot;Oh my God, I'm immediately gonna to Doctors Without Borders.&quot; And the other person comes out changed, changed so that they make And they say, &quot;Oh my God, the cinematography was I'm gonna spend the rest of my life at the feet of the Whoa, they were both changed. Neither of them chose to change. They were changed by experience. And they were changed as a function of who they had turned out to be at the moment they went So that's exactly where we Not only are we biological machines like worms and redwood trees but we're the only biological machines that can know that we're and have some insights as and where the levers are and to understand what makes more readily happening than others. And there's a whole world of in people to make them's, for they hardly count as humans. Every single dictator out every genocidal, whoever intuitively knows how to bring about Yeah, we know how to change behavior and we get more insights And another way of framing about the levers and the buttons. And one of the most interesting is we have this meta-level of and say, &quot;Whoa, I'm and I never knew about that I'm going to go read I'm going to go reinforce that.&quot; We're capable of and understanding what will make it less likely or more likely. &quot;Oh my God, that was the most I'm going to now counteract that by go listening to K-pop so that my mind is Yeah, we even understand what And if we've been trained and reflect on it, then that whole thing. Yep, it's these recursive that we can know our machine-ness. - I wasn't planning to talk about artificial intelligence today but you called us a biological machine, and I think it's kind of interesting and &quot;recursive loop&quot; which is one of the things that as people have been experimenting with things like large language models that they've been for them to teach themselves and to learn. I wonder if in some sense that we've had around is in part because we've that can also spit back to us in terms that we're familiar with that speaks the same language as us. I wonder if you have any thoughts about the relationship between that we're starting to interact with even though it's at than what we consider and how that is going to interact or potentially shift some of because those things They're programs, they're input, output but in some sense, they're things that feel intentional and we're imbuing them with these sort of So I'm curious if you think or tip the way in which people think about things like free will. - Well, for starters, I have to admit that I am beyond ignorant I don't even know enough Like I'm up to being able to That's about what century and that's thanks to my wife So all of those caveats, I think these issues are and they're gonna bring fascinating, seductive domain that actually has nothing which is the notion that at some point these computers are gonna be so powerful with enough component parts that stuff is going to that it could only be described on the level of what has emerged. And it's got a parallel- which is we throw enough our basic neuron is not all that different than one in a fruit fly, but we have a hundred million for every one that a fruit fly does, and throw enough of them and outcome stuff like and music and aesthetics and all of that emergent stuff comes out that only has properties A molecule of water, H2O, cannot feel wet. Wetness is an emergent So that's like the most and emergence how your brain and it's the same way that ants expend their least energy foraging and it's the coolest stuff But then there's the to decide that free will And the reason why that doesn't work is every model you have &quot;Oh, you throw enough neurons you throw in to make a computer AI-ish,&quot; you throw enough stuff in there and with enough quantity, and out will pop not only consciousness, maybe AI is going to do but maybe free will as well. And the problem is that every single model of how an emergently complex system can now generate free will to be able to reach down to those little simple component parts and make them work differently And that's like saying, you and not only can they ant society and colony in their passageways, but they also like suddenly and it doesn't work that way. And the whole point, the amazing you start with some stupidly simple thing like a neuron or a ant or a are made of, a vacuum tube or something- and the whole point is each and has a very finite number of rules. And often the rules are with the elements immediately around you. And the amazing thing about emergence is they're just as stupid and simple when they're inventing coming out the other end, Every model that says free requires the ants and to suddenly do stuff that they can't do, to be freed from their own histories. So emergence is the coolest thing on Earth and I torture my students with but that's not where you're - Emergence is one of those things that I struggle to understand too. And even when you say the property at the emergent level, from a metaphysical sense, I'm And the wetness example is instructive. I get that intuitively, the interrelation between the different and how they interact and produce wetness as an emergent property. But when it relates to and this is probably just at this particular moment, I'm lost at where this Could you help me sort of understand that? Like where is emergence as a property sort of within this material - Well, the way to think about it is it's simply a consequence of numbers. You take one ant and you put it on a table and it's just wandering around randomly and it makes no sense. And you do 10 ants there And you put a hundred maybe they start marching And you put 10,000 of them there and suddenly, collectively, they know how to build a whole colony with like different jobs. And like they know how to and milk them for that. And they do all this incredible- and it's simply properties An emergent property in us, where in the brain is conformity? If you were raised in a box and you spend your whole life in a box, conformity is never an issue for you. Conformity is only something that emerges when you're surrounded by other people and you care about what they think of you. And that's like, there's a nuts and bolts that makes some people more and why we're more conforming when we're stressed or feel insecure. There's like the nuts and the buttons, the building explaining how conformity varies But the most important thing is you can't be a human living and conform or not to conform to something about human behavior. Conformity or being an anarchist or being like a fan of Mozart or anything are only traits that emerge when you have other So that's a classic case. - With distributed causality, we sort of talked about the things that can be the second, the hour-length of time that would impact or or behaviors or decisions that someone is going to execute at a particular moment in time. And we've even talked about what is the sort of things that are going to impact a because of the context But I'm thinking about What are some of the things from genetics, from epigenetics, from that ladder up into that influence human behavior, human actions and human decisions when they are interacting or society writ large? - Here's like a great example of it- back to the frontal cortex. Its evolution is really interesting. It's the most recently evolved We've got more of it or than any other primate; it's like totally amazing. Yeah, there's been this evolution of an increased capacity and impulse control and all of that. Evolution has given us an with the frontal cortex. Most of your brain is wired up and going about its business by the time you're three years old, five years old. Some new stuff comes online but your frontal cortex until you're about 25 years old. It's the last part of the brain to mature. What have we just explained? We've explained why adolescents and why like 15 year their allowance for But then you ask sort of Why does it take 25 years to get wired up? Whereas say this part of this part is in the first few years of life. Is it because it's a more Are there neurotransmitters in the frontal? Nah, it's the same It's not a more complicated What it is is we have evolved of the frontal cortex. Why is that? Because if the frontal to make you to do the harder thing when it's the right thing to do, it's really challenging learning what counts as the right thing. You gotta learn your You've gotta learn your and &quot;Thou shall not kill.&quot; But if you kill one of them, we're gonna give you a and maybe like It takes a long time to learn this stuff. And we have a longer delayed than any other primate and And this is a recent Let's frame it this way: Your frontal cortex has evolved. The genes that specify your to make you as free Your frontal cortex is that is the freest from genetic influences because it's still being and experience a quarter century whereas most of the rest of your brain is sculpted by two or three Whoa, we evolved, our genes evolved to free our frontal cortex and to make it much more sculpted by environmental determinism. Totally cool because one culture has a completely different than another culture, and they can't be coded for genetically. You gotta spend a whole lot of time learning what counts as the right thing among the people with - That's absolutely fascinating. I mean, one of the from your book, I believe, from different parts of the world and the ways in which how long they hold their child, how long they let their child and the different impacts that could have on the neural patterns on their brain. I'm curious if you could a little bit more 'cause I that even those sorts of things can have impacts on how - It's immensely interesting stuff. Okay, when you study and psyches and all sorts the classic comparison is studying collectivist cultures versus individualist cultures. Collectivist cultures, people You do psychological tests, and they think in terms There's all like wonderful Where are the collectivist cultures on Earth most prominent? Southeast Asia, rice-growing regions, where you and the whole village have to plant this person's crop today. And then all of you collectively plant the next person's tomorrow and the next person after that, and you all harvest in one day. And you're also cooperating collectively with 50 other villages to that starts in the and that you've been for centuries and centuries, literally. Individualist world: The U.S., poster child for because we're mostly peopled of malcontents and who fled wherever they were to come here. The U.S. is incredibly individualistic. Ask like an American, And they'll say, &quot;Well, I'm a Take somebody from Southeast Asia and on the average, you ask and they will say, &quot;Well, It's relational stuff like that. Okay, so hooray, different And you look and there's different sorts of mothering styles. And as you mentioned there, collectivist culture sing more quietly to their child than individualist cultures mothers. There's differences, you start crying, you're an infant, you start crying- on the average, how before mom picks you up? In collectivist cultures, In individualist ones, it's a longer delay because they're toughening you up. When do you start sleeping alone? How much physical contact? All of that, like you show like classic sort of cultural linguistic If you show a kid a picture of there's a whole bunch of fish here and there's a fish here in the front- and this is a colleague of mine who did wonderful research on this- and you get somebody from showing this to their child. And the mother is saying, this leader, this is the of all these other fish.&quot; And then you get somebody who's of that mindset. And the mother is saying, this poor fish, he's all alone. He can't be with the rest of the group. He must've done something very wrong where everybody else Like completely different And you get contrasts- desert dwellers or rainforest dwellers? If they were desert dwellers, they're significantly more likely to have invented a monotheistic religion. Rainforest, polytheistic. If your ancestors were pastoralists wandering the grasslands with their cows or camels or goats or whatever, they're much more likely to have come up with what's called a &quot;culture of honor.&quot; If somebody transgresses against you, you transgress twice as bad back at them because if you don't, they tomorrow, they're gonna of your camel and your wife and daughters. But if you're a rainforest forager, you don't invent a culture of honor. All this stuff goes into it. And the job of every generation's is to create a child whose to replicate the cultural and thus passed on and passed on. Okay, fabulous example of this. Southeast China, rice-growing, you get this extremely There's a small pocket of where people instead do wheat growing and it's very individualistic And you get people there who as somebody living on the or whatever. And here's an experiment their grandkids who were this was this totally cool study- you go to a Starbucks there, and the researchers did an experiment. There's two tables here so that they're back to back. They're blocking the And here comes your subject and what do they do? And if it turns out, if you were raised in the collectivist floodplain culture, you're to walk around the table. And if you come from the individualistic, wheat-growing ends, you pull the chairs apart because you are the And whoa, this is either like planted seeds with 400 members of the village at once, or they looked out on the horizon and like thought of like heroic, like cowboy movie soundtracks before doing it all on their own. This makes you act differently in a Starbucks just outside Whoa, that stuff matters as well. - You know, that was fascinating. I just wanna double-click on You talked about child rearing and I was curious to get a sense of, do you think that the is to ensure that the culture survives into the next generation? - You know, there's this great aphorism in like evolutionary theory that sometimes a chicken of making another egg. If I were much more and were put in charge of the world, I would say that social anthropology is the study of how you wire up a brain like your parents' brains. Yeah, that's like crazy, but on a certain, yeah, to pass on your beliefs, what you hate, who you would kill for, who you would die for, what what's gonna happen to you after you die, whether revenge or turn the other cheek- and all of that gets taught and reflects what our ancestors invented, and how mom and grandmom, and all of it reflects how And not in this, as you say, this volitional conscious sense, but it's just the wind tunnel that plays one of the big roles in sculpting the sort of - You know, I certainly If I wanna lose weight that's a thing that I just do as a human. I feel some agency and some steerability of those decisions that I have. And it's not that you've but you can better understand How would you explain to people that even though there is no free will, there's still steerability Like how would you help people - Well, that's that whole example of going into a movie theater, and you are changed by it as a function of who you and you have the potential to be able to then reinforce that pathway with a recursive loop, all of that. Let's translate that into you. Let's unpack you. How do you turn out to who knows what constitutes a healthy diet? How do you be the sort of person where your values an all-Cheetos diet instead to wanna be able to be healthy? How did you turn out to with a frontal cortex that could make you actually How did you turn out to be and you live in a neighborhood where there's actually like How did all of those And I think what that translates into, sort of most effectively for is if you really believe this stuff and take it to its logical conclusions- where nothing more than over which we had no control- if you really believe that, blame and punishment never make any sense either, intellectually or ethically. Likewise, praise and reward And those are the logical That being said, like I've and I can actually function this way for about three and a half 'cause it's really, really hard. And what you gotta do, I think, is do the, &quot;Okay, how did they become who they are? And what privileges did that had something to do with how I turned out to be who I am?&quot; And go back and think a fifth time, the tenth time, when it's a setting that really matters, when you're about to because almost certainly if what they just did, you're gonna be wrong because you're not thinking of And virtually every time you decide, &quot;Well, I just did a good job, I deserve to be CEO, I deserve to have running any version of you winding up think about how you wound up this way, and how by one little could have been a totally different story. So if it's gonna be hard, and and I think for anyone, if it's gonna be, save it for when it really matters, for when you're really judging with a whole lot of sense of blame or you're judging with a especially if it's for yourself or people who are like and pray like you and eat like you and love like you and all that. Yeah, those are the times go back and remember all of what came before. - You know, I know in the legal system, within what should we do about where it's, you know, people are behaving in ways that are harmful to others and there needs to be some consequences to help to prevent them If it's not blame or punishment, what is the way of looking - Yeah, this is the juncture where people like burn a book like mine and saying, &quot;Oh great, you're just running around the streets!&quot; Of course, you're not gonna have murderers running around in the streets any more than you have cars out on the streets. You put the car in a garage, but you don't go in every and smash the car over the top because it has a crappy soul- it just turned out that way. And in the same way, if you've you gotta protect society from them. You constrain them, you &quot;quarantine&quot; them, which is a word that is in sort of criminology circles. And with the same concept you have to quarantine the person because they are You quarantine them the absolute minimum needed to make them safe and You don't preach to them in the process and you put lots of effort How did they wind up being a What can you do to make fewer in the future? And this seems like totally because there's dangerous Here's a sample of us with dangerous people: You're an airline pilot. It's hay fever season and you're taking a lot of And as a result, you're drowsy and you don't fly a plane at that time. Whoa, we don't like We don't say they've got or no capacity for empathy because if left alone, We say, gotta quarantine you when you're taking something You can still go and like go which is clearly on my mind right now. We're not gonna preach to And we, the airline, go fund research on how to make antihistamines that don't make pilots drowsy. Whoa, we're running society where we have drowsy pilots and we protect people without invoking a And that's so obvious, it that that's a realm where we've subtracted The flip side is praise Meritocracies are as insupportable as criminal justice systems. But you got a problem there. You gotta protect people doing stuff that's difficult. If you got a brain tumor, you really don't want them from off the street to You want them to spend years You wanna protect people from murderers by quarantining them. And you wanna protect the populace from people who are not up And that requires skill and all of that. That one's a tough problem because you have to figure out how to motivate someone to like when their roommate is going and they say, &quot;I gotta study instead.&quot; You gotta figure out how if you're not gonna have a world where they come out the and feeling like they are intrinsically a better human than others. - Robert, thank you so This has been really illuminating, and I'm really grateful to talk with you about free will, determinism and just the constraints that exist within all of our behaviors and actions that we take as people. - Well, thanks for having me on. It's a pleasure. Want to dive deeper? Become a Big Think member and join our members-only community, watch videos early, and