Ah, the Renault Avantime. A car that when it was released in 2001 looked And movie companies agreed, with the car being like "Children of Men" and "Ready Player The name "Avantime" is a portmanteau, word "avant" meaning "before" or "ahead" So like its name, was the Avantime just ahead Or was it a nice idea, but an automotive dead This is the Renault Avantime Story. (music) The Avantime story can't be told without a company called Matra, the name being derived They were founded just after the Second World By the 1960s they had moved into the nascent By the 1970s the company was a full-fledged toes into things as diverse as music distribution, small sailboat and a rapid transit system! Matra had also looked at making cars. In 1963 they purchased sports car maker "Automobiles Despite selling 60,000 cars a year, Matra so in the 1970s they entered a partnership In 1981 the French socialist Government decided A large part of Matra was still in the defence The new smaller company found itself in a The old sports car business wasn't fairing with cars such as the 1977 Matro Rancho that The US division of Chrysler started looking wasn't a coincidence that Chrysler's European the same time. With Matra working closely with Chrysler, surprising that they decided to produce their But although Chrysler's European arm was worked out a deal with rival Renault to release the Renault Espace. The Espace was a gamble but was an easy deal If the car didn't sell, then Matra took would take a piece of the profits. The car was an almost instant hit. Launched the same year as the North American Espace would kick start the European MPV boom. This was great news for Matra who's finances sales increased into the 1990s. This sets the scene for the decision over It's the late 1990s and Renault's looking MPVs sales were accelerating, and companies like the Renault Scenic. A large chunk of revenue from the increasingly bank account. So, Renault decided the 4th generation Espace Matra with nothing. It's unclear if Matra were already looking Avantime to replace the Espace. Regardless, it was the brainchild of Philippe The reasoning behind the Avantime was that gaggle of children and stuff. By the late 1990s those kids had grown up, Espace but wanted something similar that would Renault were open to the concept. In 1998 they signed an agreement to explore Le Quement was brought in to give the car You may remember Patrick from his involvement from favour due to the Sierra's lack of Since then he'd moved on to Renault, and he made the move. The design team would no longer answer to report directly to the CEO. Patrick wanted the CEO felt that this would rekindle Renault's Renault and Matra had to decide what the empty grown-up Espace. The MPV had always been known for its acres It needed space, but only for four people use, so why not just go with two front doors? What Renault and Matra found themselves designing The designers were soon calling their creation "Coupe" and "Espace" together. And with it pitched at high earning empty They might even take some market share back the large luxury car market. Confidence was running high in the team. They'd created a new category once before with much more practicality. Could lightning strike in the same place twice? Taking the coupe theme, and lots of glass, That is the pillar that normally goes between By removing it, with all the windows down, ever made at the time, the car became almost And the higher driving position gave occupants The Avantime was given additional luxury features windows featuring electric sunshades, and windows and sunroof to give it that convertible The designers would also experiment with new Cars were getting steadily heavier in the such as air bags and more complex crash structures More efficient engines could only get you So, Renault, like other car companies looked The top half of the Avantime would be made And the doors would be a composite material. But the lower half of the car would be pure of the car was made up of Espace parts. The exterior would be a bold styling statement. According to design project manager Thierry the car to be continually astonished. The front surprises you, then you move to the rear bustle. They were intending to shock - to create would be fun to drive. It was a car that brought the outside inside, The rear seats would be slightly higher than and adding to the drama. Four doors were tried, but the designers settled To make it easier to get into the rear those folded forward the rear windows automatically But those big doors would make entry difficult car park, so the light composite doors would to allow for easier access. The car was launched as a concept in 1999, The exterior styling followed the avantgarde It had some wonderful styling details, such The rear bustle would become a styling cue and 2003 Scenic. Competing car companies would keep close tabs to its success. And the interior was as innovative as the individual rear seats that had their own screen the seats to keep a perfectly refrigerated After all, this was France and you've got But like the Fiat Multipla and Pontiac Aztek, car that split opinion. The design team, Renault and Matra knew they to bet big to win big, and a bland car that replace the big hole in revenue Matra faced The Avantime was slated for a summer 2000 a flexing roof would delay the launch until It would be released around the same time customers minds as they were cars aimed at That wall of glass created an open cockpit, Having only two doors very likely hurt sales days of leaping deftly from the rear seat But one area where Renault and Matra excelled They worked hard to give this tall car excellent for holding its own through the bends. But for a car that was supposed to be high issues inside and cheap feeling plastic. And the windows would shake if the door was the lack of a "B" pillar. Renault got to work to clear up any problems, The car launched with a single engine - a enough power. But France was a country that loved its diesels until a 2.2L diesel was added to the mix, engine which had the unfortunate short title a little bit rude. Yes, I might look like a fully grown adult, The press gushed over Renault's daring automotive There are very few cars that Clarkson, Hammond was one of them. But despite all the good press, sales were Maybe it was the fit and finish issues, maybe middle-aged customers just didn't get, maybe Whatever the reason, Renault and Matra sold Matra had spent big in its quest to create They were used to the income from the Espace, By 2003 the losses from the Avantime became Production ended and the Avantime was no more. Ten years after the Avantime was launched, It's a testament to the passion for the this unique car, from as far afield as Serbia The Avantime obviously spoke to a certain and appreciated what Renault and Matra were And it's a testament to the team who built them also turned up to celebrate it. Its head designer, Patrick Le Quement has he'd ever worked on. There's a temptation to call the Avantime, it presaged the crossover boom in the 2010s. But beyond cars that sat higher, which you Espace in the 1980s, few of the Avantime's Large family cars with only two doors went Avantime didn't help them stage a comeback. But one thing you can't say about the car And after all these years it still looks fresh, As the project design lead said at the ten Everyone likes it, but no one is actually Maybe there's something in that, maybe it but it's a wonderfully unique and original A big thank you to all my Patrons for supporting To get early advert free access to new videos, supporting me using the Patreon link below button to get notified of new videos. Thanks for watching and see you in the next