(gentle suspenseful music) - [Narrator] When or flood waters rise, when a volcano threatens to blow, we turn to science and to seek shelter, or get out of the way. But can they face down A speeding projectile Can new generation space and save the planet (explosion booming) Welcome to the new age - [Reporter] And lift off on NASA's first planetary defense test to intentionally crash into an asteroid. - [Narrator] DART, the double is a 610 kilogram spacecraft to crash into an asteroid Its target, an asteroid about the size of two soccer fields called Dimorphos. Scientists have compared ramming into the Great Pyramid of Egypt. In this test mission, they expect to change by only a fraction of 1%, but if an incoming asteroid that could be enough to and avoid a catastrophic impact. - There are two things that First, it is in fact the biggest Impact by an asteroid a could destroy a billion people far beyond any other The good side is, it is the one hazard that we think we could eliminate entirely. You could never stop an but if we had warning of then at least in principle, we have the technology deflect it, and have it miss entirely. - [Narrator] And yet, we may not always have (upbeat foreign music) February 15th, 2013, the town of Chelyabinsk in Southern Russia is just waking up. Many of its citizens are headed to work. Neither they nor anyone are expecting a visitor now approaching from outer space. (gentle brooding music) (explosion booming) A 20-meter wide asteroid at an altitude of almost 30 kilometers. It releases the equivalent or 20 to 30 Hiroshima bombs. Over a thousand people are injured, most from falling debris and flying glass. Eerily, within 24 hours, another even larger at a distance of 28,000 kilometers. That's within the orbit - An asteroid is a leftover building block from the formation of the solar system, and a few of them share the inner solar and will ultimately or Venus or the sun. Asteroids that could impact the Earth are the greatest natural hazard we face, but the impacts are extremely rare. They are the extreme example of a disaster of low probability, but high consequence. (explosion booming) - [Narrator] Projectiles like these have been hitting our planet challenging us to explain, what are they, where do they come from, who sent them? Ancient observers turned to describing them as omens, signs that something good or ill was happening in human affairs. In the spring of 44 B.C., following the murder of Julius Caesar, the appearance of a comet was promoted as a sign We now know the annual happens when Earth hits debris In ancient Rome, it was and to the rescue of by the warrior, Perseus. Later on, scientists and philosophers who sought to refine their struggled to explain They saw the universe as a cosmic clock designed by They described a universe that Planets circle the sun, the stars arc across the night sky, the seasons ebb and flow, all in beautiful harmony. This cosmic timepiece was a testament to the perfection of creation. (celestial music) In time, the idea of gave way to the workings of natural laws. Our sun we now believe of a vast cloud of dust and Within this solar disc, tiny particles glammed together Drawn by their mutual gravity, they merged into boulders, and eventually small bodies Such objects drew in gas and ice crystals to grow into the giants. Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune, and Uranus, the gravity of these gas giants that enveloped the solar where they became comets. In the warm inner regions, rocky objects swarmed merging or shattering eventually growing into the The collisions didn't end there. This is an elevation map of planet Mars. Heading north, we move over a vast lowland It's thought to be a scar left by a monumental that may have destroyed Planet Venus, a giant for it's extremely slow rotation in the opposite direction (suspenseful music) Early in the history of our planet, a collision brought Earth perilously close to total destruction. (explosion booming) A Mars-sized body crossed The oblique angle of impact Current theory holds that launched into orbit, gradually came together to form the moon. (celestial music) Over time, the presence of the moon would stabilize Earth's rotation while driving tides for the emergence of life. That was only one in a - Remember again that the asteroids are those remnants from And while the planets were there were millions of than we see today, and they were raining down on our planet and growing our planet, in fact. All you have to do is and the crater face of the moon, the very features that they are a tableau of those large, very much more numerous impacts that occurred four and when the planets were forming. - [Narrator] Craters that show the pounding that through its history. The solar system is still stocked with countless rocky objects like those that pummeled Over the eons, objects large and small have continued to strike the Earth. Most impact craters have Others were obliterated by or by the reshuffling of continents. Some 200 left marks we Meteor crater is one of the most striking. It dates back to a day when the core of a busting up asteroid slammed into what's now Arizona. Scientists believe the 30 to 50 meters wide that It left a hole 180 meters deep and just over a kilometer wide. This is the Pingualuit crater in Quebec formed 1.3 million years ago. The impactor unleashed the and left a crater three The Manicouagan crater was blasted out by a 214 million years ago. It may have been part that struck in France, It's reminiscent of a string of fragments from the Shoemaker-Levy comet (celestial music) The largest known impact crater can be found in South Africa. At 2 billion years old, the Vredefort crater was up to 25 kilometers wide. What you see here is the inner crater. It's set within a larger It was part of a rare class capable of wreaking havoc Just recently, scientists discovered what on the east coast of Antarctica. (explosions booming) They proposed that set off the eruption of on the planet's opposite side. Called the Siberian Traps, this volcanic eruption was responsible for the greatest mass Marking the end of the Permian the devastation claimed 90% Then there's the Chicxulub crater straddling Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. It was created 65 million years ago by an impactor at least The debris thrown into would've enveloped the - I think the two most significant impacts that we've seen in Earth's history were the moon forming impact itself, and then the impact 65 million years ago. Much smaller scale impact but very significant from because that was the impact that wiped the world and 75% of all the other species of plants and animals on and cleared the way for and for our own origin. - [Narrator] Coincidentally, another large asteroid It's currently hidden beneath The Hiawatha crater is the most recently Objects like these were more Over time, an estimated was pulverized in collisions, swept up in rising planets, or flog out of the - We often see the asteroid belt depicted as this dense stream of rocks tumbling around in very close And it's true that there are in this region between Mars and Jupiter, but they're not dense-packed the way you often see them depicted. In fact, if you were on any random asteroid out there in the main belt between Mars and Jupiter, you would never even, by your naked eye, be able to see the they just wouldn't appear that way. - [Narrator] Here is a up to the year 2018. The asteroid belt shown in orange is the largest concentration. To us, the most dangerous those shown in blue. They come within 1.3 times the distance between Earth and the sun. In the last few decades, have led to a new sense of awareness that Earth may still be vulnerable. (horn blaring) Today, the world's population and could reach 11 billion With so many of us now crowded we struggle to shield ourselves from a range of natural disasters. Extreme weather sparked (thunder rumbling) rising sea levels and floods, wildfires that now then there's the ever (explosion booming) With the threat of mass destruction and the displacement can we address the ultimate threat, the one from space? 1998, Hollywood released - [Astronaut] Okay, gentlemen. - [Astronaut] Just hold on! - [Narrator] &quot;Armageddon&quot;, a comet is hurdling toward Earth. Astronaut heroes race out to blow it up (triumphant music) and save the planet. - [Speaker] How's my time? (indistinct) up at 75. - [Narrator] Then, &quot;Deep Impact&quot;. This time, Earth doesn't get off so easy. (gentle dramatic music) That same year, 1998, in response to growing popular of the asteroid threat, NASA began a long term effort - Only in Hollywood do asteroids and suddenly head for the Earth. The fact is, they know Newton's laws and they follow them just fine, so when we do discover an asteroid, if we get good data, we can predict its orbit for decades or even centuries in the future. - [Narrator] Asteroid hunters have found around 30,000 objects, with 3,000 new ones identified each year. That includes an estimated like the 10-kilometer rock that Our chance of being hit by is estimated at once The chance of being hit by rises to once every 700,000 years. Moving down in size, 300-meter rocks should bringing continental scale devastation. Smaller still, 140-meter And 40-meter objects like the one that punched every 300 years. A 40-meter object passes several times a year. The next size down, zips by about once a week. Scientists are seeking not but to clarify their trajectories and the chances they'll Meanwhile, there are those that like the one that hit To scientists, it was more Three and a half hours after it exploded, the polar orbiting Suomi satellite began tracking the In an effort to learn more about the asteroids physical properties, scientists followed the plume as it spread out in upper level winds, forming a complete global belt. They further modeled the hoping to one day predict of incoming objects. The Chelyabinsk asteroid was reminiscent of the most famous asteroid The Tunguska asteroid (explosion booming) leveling 2000 square kilometers, including some 80 million trees. It took over a century for scientists to identify fragments of this impactor and to conclude that it Ultimately, the best way to learn what these wayward bodies are made of and how their orbits can change over time is to pay one a visit. NASA launched the Dawn mission in 2007. Propelled by an ion thrust rocket engine, Dawn entered the asteroid belt in 2011. Its targets, a large and the crown jewel of the asteroid belt, an icebound dwarf planet called Ceres. Together, they comprise over one half of the total mass of the asteroid belt. Today Vesta is pocked with scars left by collisions Some gully-like features, maybe the unlikely erosion Vesta appears to have been In fact, scientists have concluded that many of the asteroids were once part of Vesta. Not long after scientists began tracking and cataloging near-Earth asteroids, a team from the US Air Force and the Massachusetts discovered one that is now considered the greatest threat to Earth. The asteroid Bennu represented was named for a mythological Egyptian god. It was likely born in a in the inner part of the asteroid belt. With a diameter of some 500 meters, Bennu would inflict catastrophic And there is uncertainty about its path, which shifts over time due to the gravitational pull of planets, as well as the subtle The uncertainty of Bennu's path is one reason NASA set - [Reporter] And lift off of OSIRIS-Rex. It's seven-year mission. - [Narrator] In September, 2016, the OSIRIS-Rex spacecraft began a journey lasting two years and three months, covering a distance of Within just a few days of its arrival, OSIRIS-REx was hit with flying off the asteroid. The blast did no harm, but it showed that Bennu is part of a rare class that regularly shed mass (gentle suspenseful music) The spacecraft would spend while sending back images To the surprise of scientists on Earth, the asteroid is strewn with boulders. Over 200 of them are larger The asteroid is essentially a held together by its 60% of its volume is actually empty space. After a survey of potential landing spots, on May 10th, 2021, the spacecraft maneuvered devoid of large rocks. An on board camera captured the dissent. A device at the end of a blasting dirt and small rocks The spacecraft hit its thrusters to back out of the cloud of and to move away from the asteroid. After orbiting the asteroid, it began the long return flight to Earth. OSIRIS-REx will drop the sample container into the atmosphere for retrieval. Data from the mission has to recalculate Bennu's trajectory. Fortunately, in its next pass by Earth nearly two centuries from now, the chance of impact is OSIRIS-REx will go on to of yet another near-Earth asteroid. In the year 2029, 99942 Apophis, a slightly smaller asteroid, will pass within 32,000 Here is its path compared to a sample of manmade Once OSIRIS-REx drops it will then swing back just weeks before it races by Earth. It will spend the next 18 mapping its surface, and studying the effects With most large, highly now identified, astronomers to smaller objects down Only 25% of them are currently known. What if one of these city (explosion booming) New York, London, or any of the world's great cities? Winds generated by the impact could claim 50,000 lives within seconds. In such a destructive impact inevitable, there is a chance that someday we'll detect a giant boulder large enough to survive the (explosion booming) How will we respond? Public awareness is our If you know it's coming, you might be able to get out of the way. That's why every June, the founders of world Asteroid Day impose citizens to pay attention and make planetary defense a priority. (explosion booming) NASA for one has set up a new planetary to manage the expanding asteroid database and disseminate information to the public. In the US, the Federal Emergency has begun to develop evacuation The next line of defense is detection. To avoid getting blindsided, we must monitor the sky NASA has erected the deep space network to communicate with spacecraft, that includes planetary radar to scan our solar neighborhood The agency runs the NEOWISE space mission to hunt for asteroids, as well as the Scout Project, including a software system ATLAS telescopes are scanning The new Vera Rubin Observatory will monitor a wide looking for stars or asteroids and comets racing - The most scientifically over the last few years are a much more sophisticated and how they change. A recognition, for instance, of what the astronomers call a keyhole, which means that there are in an orbit. If it goes right precisely here, it'll come back and get you. If it misses by even a mile, it won't. And so we are understanding and subtleties of orbits. Obviously, it's not just a matter of discovering these but making accurate predictions - [Reporter] And lift off - Our third line of defense, intercept and neutralize the threat. - [Reporter] Crash into an asteroid. - [Narrator] Planetary defense of disaster movies. For a moment, in September, 2022, citizens of Planet Earth to an interplanetary spectacle. DART, the double asteroid redirection test was sent on a 10-month journey powered by a small ion thrust Racing in at almost 24,000 the DART spacecraft homes Didymos and Dimorphos 11 10 days from the impact, the DART spacecraft releases called LICIACube to record the action. Live streaming to Earth, DART's camera sends back T-minus one hour, the asteroids are but a pixel of light. T-minus minutes, details appear on the The smaller target Dimorphos is behind it. (gentle suspenseful music) On approach, DART autonomously steers in the direction of Dimorphos. (gentle suspenseful music) Two minutes to go, DART passes Didymos. Details on Dimorphos now become distinct. You can see that it's similar to Bennu. (gentle suspenseful music) Here is the last image taken The rock in the center is close to five and a half meters wide. From Earth, the ATLAS telescope catches a cloud of rock and Meanwhile, LICIACube, the and the James Webb Space A week later, in the wake of the impact, the SOAR Telescope in the Andes Mountains catches a 10,000 kilometer accelerating away from the asteroid. Scientists expected the impact might shorten the asteroids by at least 73 seconds. DART, the tiny managed to cut it by 32 minutes. With enough warning time, we can defend against small-sized Will this work with an such as Bennu? And what'll we do if the with little warning? One answer, follow the script of and (indistinct). (explosions booming) A group of scientists at the tried to find out how feasible this is by simulating a nuclear strike Their study target, a 330-meter near-Earth asteroid called Itokawa. A Japanese mission found that it too is a conglomerate of dense rocks. On its surface, scientists planted a virtual six times more powerful than Hiroshima. (gentle celestial music) In the first 30 milliseconds, a shockwave races through the rocks. Most of the fragments are too small to survive the plunge However, the explosion in deadly radiation. A recently published plan Sometime in the future, a large asteroid is spotted A robotic probe is sent out to survey it. Seeing through the dirt and the probe reports that it's some larger than a house. We turn to our last line of defense, a last ditch effort to save civilization. (gentle upbeat music) Like an Iron Dome for planet Earth, we've stationed a robotic asteroid hunter on the surface of the moon. (gentle celestial music) As the asteroid bears down on Earth, astronomers use radar to track it. At a critical moment, (rocket engine rumbling) It doesn't take much power With its near-Earth mission, the spacecraft can travel light on fuel, but heavy on firepower. After decades of experiments in tracking and maneuvering in space, planetary defense finally The asteroid is still half an Earth away. The spacecraft is actively tracking it, computing its speed and trajectory. The target is approaching at Earth impact is all but certain. In this new age of planetary defense, nuclear bombs have been ruled out, but a single conventional explosive is not enough to destroy an asteroid, so instead the spacecraft It fires a series of projectiles to meet the asteroid and soften it up. One charge penetrates, another explodes. Then final impact. (explosion booming) Observing from Earth, scientists and the public, with their faith hanging in the balance, can only wait and hope. With any luck, those fragments that hit Earth are small enough to burn (gentle upbeat music) Will we live another day to strive, create, to wonder, and survive? (gentle upbeat music) (explosions rumbling) (gentle celestial music)