(soft rock music plays) (soft rock music plays) - My name's Ted. Where you from? Really? I've been here a week, you're who's actually from here. Can I buy you another drink? - Why not? Hey Dalton, give me another one. - You don't live here anymore though, not dressed like that. You came back for a family reunion. No, no. Those never happen at Let's see... Bozeman is a college town. So I'm gonna say a school reunion. A class of 2006... Am I close? - Do you feel close, Ted? - It feels like I'm gettin close. - My turn. You're in real estate or something equally as unimportant. Married, a couple of kids, one on the way. That was your excuse to come out here, need the break, work, family life, it's so demanding. A little fresh hair, a little me time. You came alone 'cause none of and those who do, they have wives who are a lot smarter than yours, 'cause let's be honest, Ted, you didn't come here to fish. You're hunting. That's why you're sitting in a bar instead of standing in a river. - Who the hell are you to judge me? - I ain't judging you, buddy. I'm hunting, too. Just not hunting you. - What's wrong with me? - You look like a real soft fuck, Ted. All you city boys do. Gentlemen, mind if I join you? - She's asking for Mr. Jenkins. - Did you tell her there was no smoking? - Yes, sir. - Then why is she still smoking? - It's...I don't... She made a rather - Pardon me, ma'am. - Ma'am? - Miss. - Miss? That should really only younger or just reaching marrying age, which in the era this bullshit became common vernacular, was around 13. And since I am clearly and I'm clearly not married, the proper term for me would be maiden. But if you call me maiden, Alfred, I'm gonna stab you in the - We have a no smoking policy. - Really? Well, it looks to me like the whole place is smoking, Alfred. Unless the policy is which I find hard to believe because I've never been here before. - What do you want? - To make a scene. You ready to watch that happen? - I'll get Mr. Jenkins for you. - I'd appreciate it. Hey, tattle tale, bring me another. - One thing I've never understood is how you can drink so much and never seem to be - Adderall. (Bob laughs) - Then why drink alcohol - What else am I gonna drink, Bob? A fuckin Fresca? - (chuckles) Beth, I have missed you. How much longer is this - A while, I'm afraid. - There's a lot of work - I can work from my computer. - You can't take over a - Wanna bet? Besides, I don't need to be in Salt Lake to kill companies, Bob. Look where you are. It's the mecca of dumb money. I'm half surprised I don't walking here on I90 barefoot, It's the greatest concentration of wealth in the United States, not New York, not LA, right here. I could throw a boomerang across that room and I'd hit five billionaires. - If I open an office - Ah. - Welcome. - Jenkins. - Right this way. - If I did, I know exactly - You know Dan Jenkins? - Oh, we met. - He's trying to open a version of this on the other side of town. - (chuckles) It's ripe to fall. He's not a friend is he? - Of course he's a friend, but this is business. If you can kill it, kill it. - If you were 20 years younger, Bob. Want another? (Bob exhales) Hey Connor, two more. Well, hi Dan. Who's this? - I'm his wife. - Oh. Beth Dutton. I run mergers and acquisitions - So you work with Dan? - Oh, we flirted with a That's quite the shiner you got there. - He was in a car wreck. Those airbags, they sure pack a punch. So, you guys out for a - It's the only kind, this whole city shuts down at nine. - Plenty of trouble, if You should give me a call sometime. I'll help you find it. - (chuckles) I could use some trouble. - Well, I'm your girl. (Victoria laughs) - Oh my God, I think I You're not leaving are you? - Not on your life. - I'll be right back. - Okay. Remember what I said, Dan, generations. - You think I wanna fuck you? - Oh no. A deal's a deal. Besides, I'm not fucking you, I'm fucking her. And if you have a brother, I am chopping your family tree down. Thank you. Send her over when she - Beth, be careful dealing with Dan, he's a scrapper. - When I am done with you will have custody of his kids. (Bob chuckles) - What are you doing here? (music plays in background) - I'm not gonna smoke in I do have boundaries. - Where's my wife? (music plays) (pmusic plays) (music plays) I've been stumbling down the mountain I've been stumbling by the sea I've been stumbling in the dust I can taste it on my teeth (Victoria giggling) - [Victoria] You're hot. Baby I lost my way but I'm going home - I took you for a cuckold. Guess I was wrong. You brought this on yourself, Dan. - I'm gonna ruin you. I'm gonna ruin you and your - You hurt my father, I hurt you back. This isn't hurting you, Dan. This is just fun. No, hurting you is gonna when I purchase every share I'm only telling you this 'cause I know you can't stop it. So I recommend begging for more money. Maybe they'd be dumb enough to do it. And frankly, Dan, I hope they are 'cause this has been too fuckin easy. (music plays in background) (music plays in background) (car starts) - You'll regret ever having met me, you have my word. - No Dan, regret is the one thing I just won't do. (car speeds off) (car doors close) - Can I help you? - Why do you call it &quot;The Pelican Ranch&quot;? - We moved from San Francisco, always worried we'd miss the ocean. When our agent brought us here, there was a pelican in Like the ocean followed us here. Our agent said he'd never - Sandy hair, great tan, white teeth? - You know Mike? - It wasn't a pelican. - Sure looked like one. - Did it fly off when you drove up? - No, it sat in the center of the pond the whole time we were here. - Haven't seen it since, though? That's because it was a decoy, put a big, strange bird it scares away other birds, birds that like to eat You got any trout in the pond? - Not like we used to. - Mm hmm. I'd like to buy your ranch. - Oh, it's not for sale. - Everything's for sale, buddy. How much? - I mean, I- - Name your price. - (chuckles) Nine million? (paper tears) - Now get outta my house. (music begins) (radio plays in background) (music in background) - It's $38 even. - Care to donate to the jar fund? - Sure. I'm good. - You know, you should - What's that? - It's a... It's a pickle jar the Your boy? Dealing with this, and he - Someone's doing it to you, too. - Not anymore they're not. - How? How did you make him stop? My boyfriend put his head through a wall. Then I smashed his skull with New boyfriend. Big ass ashtray. It was just a thought. (Rip exhales) - What's that? - The proper term for it - I don't know what that means, Beth. - I know, baby. - Wow, look at that. Huh. Looks like an O-ring. - Oh yeah. Halfway right. I didn't think you were a You know what I mean? - Yeah. I don't need presents, Beth. Just you. - Well, that's what it means. It means that you... That you have me, that I'm yours. It means come live your life with me. The only thing I ask so I never have to live - I can try and do that. - Okay. It's settled. We'll get married. - Married, huh? - Yeah, baby, I'm asking you to marry me. Will you do that? - I mean, I would have to ask your father. - It's handled. He spares you the indignity. So what do you say? - I mean, I would've liked some (both chuckling) (Rip chuckling) - Is that a yes? - Beth, I can't go to a courthouse. There's no record I even - Yeah well, marriage license, that's just a contract. Right? It's just business. We ain't going into business together. So marriage to me is, you take me in one of those mountains in front of my family, my friends, I don't have any friends, but should I make one, you would stand in front of them and you would tell them that there is no more you and I, there is only us. - I can do that. - Yeah. - Yeah. (instrumental music plays) - Ms. Dutton, there's... - That's my desk. - Not anymore. It's my desk now. My computer, my office furniture, my office. What's that saying cowboys use, &quot;Fuck with a bull and you get the horns.&quot; Well, you fucked with the bull. - Bet you practiced saying - For an hour. I prepare for everything. I anticipate every possible outcome, and I would've expected the same from you, but if you had given this any thought, you would've known that leads to me sitting right here. - When you find yourself of the Alamo, Willa, the outcome has already been decided. The only thing left to do is to kill as much as you can before they kill you. - I respect that. You certainly got your kills, little bitch. Cost my shareholders billions. But now, as a result, my shareholders are majority owners of Schwartz and Meyer, and you, you're fired. So thank you for all that land We have big plans for this valley. And after the sting of this fades, you should give me a call. You could do very well working for me. (slow instrumental music plays) - When all this is over, I'm gonna hang your diploma above my toilet in my guest house. You have my word. - Like I said, you gotta Then we'll talk. - The sting never fades with me. It is a painful lesson, and one you're about to learn. (slow instrumental music plays) - I really like her. (instrumental music plays) - What happened to your face? - What happened to yours you insensitive little fuck? - Nothin happened to mine. - Yeah? You should go find a mirror. - My dad's dying. - So is mine. What's killing yours. - Heroin. What's killing yours? - The 21st century. - You mean like, time? - Yeah, something like that. - How does time kill? - With my family, it sort of takes the - Dunno what that means. - You need to study harder in school, kid. - I dropped outta school. - Why'd you do that? - 'Cause, fuck it. - That's a winning attitude. Well, you know what they say, the world needs ditch diggers, too. - You got another one of those? - You need to come inside. - I'm I in trouble? - No, you're not in trouble. Are you a friend of the family? - I guess I am now. - You should come, too. - Shit. - Yeah. - So, when these lines move vertically, it's reading the electrical And when they level in this manner here, it's displaying a- - Just tell him, dude. - Well, there's no brain activity. The only thing keeping your father alive is the machine. - What does that mean? - Well, the lack of brain - It means he's gone, honey. Can he have some time to say goodbye? - There is a protocol- - Yeah, no, not today there isn't Get the fuck out. Get the fuck out, so he can say goodbye. - I dunno what to say. - Say whatever you feel. That's what you say. - Fuck you. Fuck you for leaving me in this place with nothing, and nobody. (instrumental music plays) If there's a hell, you're in it. I'll see you when I get there. Son of a bitch. (somber music plays) - It was a good speech. I like your style. - I don't have a style. - Yeah, you do. (somber music plays) (somber music plays) (light music plays in background) - Could you point me to the restroom? - Yeah, it's just down the - I'm gonna go first. Get me a beer. - Women. - Excuse me? - I said, women. - What about us? - Life is perspective - I don't know what you're talking about. - I'm talking about your husband leaving you here at the and do Kegel exercises, while he goes and powders his nose. When it should be the other way around. - Why should it be the other way around? - Because you have all the That's why. - I never thought of it like that. - It's perspective. - Where's your man? - He's on our porch - Why aren't you? - Because I'm in a bad mood. I don't like to take those home. - Where's my beer? - Order your own fucking beer, and get me a skinny margarita with Tito's. - Oh, that cheered me up. (car breaks fast) - I knew it. Who the fuck are you? - Who the fuck are you? - I'm the bitch about to - I'm sorry, I didn't know he was married. - Now here's a situation I couldn't have dreamed This is my daughter. She can be a little overprotective. Put the knife down, honey. - Dad, if you're gonna hire a hooker, would you please let me get you a good one? - Beth. - Hope you didn't pay full - Actually, God gave me these for free. Looks like he gave me yours, too. - It's seven in the fucking morning. I do not have the energy for this shit. Now put it down, she's a guest in our house. - I'm calling an Uber. - No, you're not. - Can you drive me into town please? - Can't we all just calm the fuck down and have a nice breakfast? And then yes, I'll drive - I'll get dressed. - Ah. - I'm too old for this shit. I'm too old for her, I'm too old for that I'm just too old for all of it. - Or too old for some of it. - You know, be nice to her. - Okay, dad. - She held a protest at threw a rock at your brother. Got thrown in jail and - And then brought her along with your common sense. - We talked till late. I offered her a room, her clothes were covered so I loaned her a shirt. You know Beth, maybe it's best you - Oh daddy, I wouldn't miss this breakfast Is there anything to eat that didn't have a heartbeat last week? Orange juice didn't have a heartbeat. - Is it non GMO? - I'm not sure what that means. - It means the scientist didn't alter the DNA of the orange to make more money and ravage our bodies. - I just buy big bags - Do you like wheat grass? - I do. - We have a whole field of it. Hey Gator, would you go out back, pick some wheat grass, throw it in a blender, she's just gonna love it. - You grow wheat grass? - We grow wheat, which is a grass, until it heads out and then it's a grain. - It's a different kind of wheat. - You know, I know you think that it at Jamba Juice, but no, grass grows in the ground. - Gator, Summer is a vegan. Would you make her something - Or milk. - Or milk. - Or butter. - Or butter. Maybe some pancakes? - I don't eat gluten. - What's gluten? - So wait, you'll eat the wheat grass, but you won't eat the seed? - Our bodies aren't designed to digest it. - Who told you that? - Doctors. - My doctor never told me that. - Well, you should get a new doctor. - You should get tested for chlamydia, you fuckin hippie. - Okay, Beth, that's it. All right, she's my guest, you'll treat her with - I got a meeting, anyway. - Love ya, daddy. - I hope you find a - I hope you die of ass cancer. - You know, she can- - She's a little old to her father spends time with. - Yes she is. - And the cowboy fantasy - I'll be outside. - Well that went to shit - It did seem to go pretty fast, sir. - Yeah. - Is there a specific seating or- - Wherever you want. Carter, you grab a seat right here. - Sit next to me, baby. - Okay. Sir? - On the table's fine. It looks formal Rip, but it's not. It's just supper. Here. - Here. - There's fruit in the salad. - Yeah. - Yeah, no, I'm alright. - It's good for the prostate. I have Gator make it for daddy, no? Doctor says he needs to - Yes, it is good for the prostate. Lots of things are good for the prostate, we just don't talk about - You know, there's this holistic doctor at the Deerfield Club. He specializes in tantric healing. Now that, that is good for the prostate. - Tantric, what's that? - Don't encourage her. - It focuses on the erogenous zones. - What? 'Rogenous' zones? - Uh huh. Areolas, vulva, phallus, sphincter. - Is that Latin? - And you've done this? - Just pouring gas on the fire, Rip. Just dumping it right on the damn fire. - I love it, but I don't think it's for you, baby, I think you're wound a little tight, but it is a good idea for you, daddy. And he is good. He made my knees wobble - Jesus Christ. - He recommends that you see him monthly, but after my first session with him, it was like, &quot;A month? I'm seeing your ass tomorrow.&quot; - Are we still talking about the salad? - No Carter, we're well past salad. - Can I have some? - Have all you want. - That's good. Start young, keep those pipes clean. - This is every meal, Rip. This is where she gets her revenge. - Revenge? How is me trying to prevent you from getting prostate cancer revenge? - Revenge for what? - I don't know. I cannot figure it out. - Why don't you just ask her? - Why don't you ask me, daddy? Ask me how me being the at this table is somehow vengeful? - Every meal, just like this one. - Beth, you're not gonna do 'Cause I have to eat my breakfast quick. - What? Do what? What am I doing? What the fuck am I doing? You know what I'm doing? I'm fuckin leaving, that's what I'm doin.