(dramatic instrumental music) - [Narrator] This is the that failed on February 20th, 2021. - [Pilot] United 328 heavy - It was flying from Denver to Honolulu with 241 people on board. Parts of it rained down on a residential neighborhood Pilots were able to land the plane safely. - [Passenger] Yay! - [Narrator] And no one was injured. But it wasn't the first The same type of engine, the also failed on a Japan Airlines and another failed on a in February 2018. In each case, regulators found fractured due to fatigue or cracks. In the 2018 incident, the National Transportation found that flawed inspections by the engine maker Pratt &amp; The agency is still of the most recent failures. - [Controller] Denver-departure of United- - [Narrator] Including Pratt &amp; (dramatic instrumental music) The 1990s brought a lot of New planes, like the along with new engines to power them, like the Pratt &amp; Whitney PW4000. Modern engines like the PW4000 feature lighter and Instead of a solid piece of metal, some fan blades have a But this style of fan blade required new methods of In 2005, Pratt &amp; Whitney using an existing technology called thermal acoustic imaging. The fan blades are hit with sound waves that cause the structure If there's a crack somewhere in the interior of the fan blade, the vibration will cause which an inspector's instruments can detect on the fan blade's surface. - [Announcer] The PW4000 has The result of more than and hundreds of tests. - [Narrator] In the 1990s, the aerospace industry in setting training and for aircraft inspections. The FAA maintained oversight, but the industry had more The aerospace industry maintains standards for a list of established Inspectors are required to go through hundreds of hours of training to obtain certifications But when an aerospace introduces a new inspection technique, like thermal acoustic imagining, it's classified as an emerging technology. This classification allows manufacturers, like Pratt &amp; Whitney, to start without first developing With oversight from the FAA, the manufacturer is supposed to formalize the inspection method over time. But the NTSB found that because was still classified as Pratt &amp; Whitney never developed even thought they'd used it to inspect more than 9,000 fan blades Pratt &amp; Whitney declined to comment, citing ongoing investigations. But the company previously said that it would work with An FAA spokesman said the was with the interpretation not the execution and that Pratt &amp; Whitney has since corrected the errors. When the engine that failed the P&amp;W employees that inspected it did not attend one of on how to use the technology. This was only possible because it was classified After the NTSB's report on Pratt &amp; Whitney agreed for thermal acoustic imagining. The Pratt &amp; Whitney engine was last inspected in 2016, before the new training standards, raising questions about its accuracy. Pratt &amp; Whitney reexamined the and refined how it interpreted the results after the 2018 failure. The reexaminations did not according to the FAA. Still, the inspection process remains one of the focal points in the NTSB's investigation - [Pilot] The United 238 just experienced an engine failure. Need to turn immediately. - [Narrator] In this video taken by a passenger you can see the broken fan blade. - Regarding the fan blade that a preliminary on-scene exam indicates damage consistent - [Narrator] An NTSB spokesman said their investigation of related to the most and that it's too early to draw Boeing said it was working with regulators and that it supports the FAA's guidance on inspection requirements. - [Woman] It's so weird. There's, like, smoke coming out of one of the engines on that plane. - [Narrator] The FAA that must be completed before planes with this type of Pratt &amp; Whitney engine can be returned to service, citing the likelihood of (tense music)