Translator: Leonardo Silva So this is a picture of me as a young Daniel, growing up And as a young Daniel, there was a lot of things I wanted every video game released for the Super Nintendo (Laughter) I wanted peppermint, chocolate-chip or instead of every meal; that would be okay too. But most of all, what I wanted more Mario had Luigi; I wanted someone too. So I hatched a plan. There was a boy who rode the bus with me and he got off on my same stop. So I decided when I'd invite him to my house Because who could say no to video games? So, we get off off the bus, He starts walking towards his house, And then, something strange happens. He starts walking faster. But I decide, &quot;That's OK. He's probably So I start walking faster too Then something really weird I don't know what's going on, but I do know I don't want So, I start running too And then, finally I do, and I'm so ready and start our new friendship, when he punches me in the stomach, and he says, &quot;Get away from me!&quot; And he turns and he leaves, and I'm left to walk home alone. I wish I could tell you that this was I wish I could tell you or maybe he was having a bad day and the next time I reached out But the fact is, this was a pretty typical I don't mean to say every time I tried to make a friend, but sometimes they'd kick me in the back, sometimes they'd pretend to like me so they could convince me to eat Sometimes, they would just stand up And the hardest part is that I thought I deserved it. See, I have a diagnosis which means that I'm So I can look back at my childhood and understand why it was I can understand why I couldn't read or adapt my behavior to fit social norms. But I wouldn't be diagnosed So as a kid, I didn't no any of that. I didn't know that my brain wasn't wired or that there's this whole universe and social nuance that I couldn't see. All I knew is that I couldn't get no matter how hard I tried. And when you're a kid, you try to make sense of the world and the only way that my kid brain could was to decide that they were my fault. I remember coming home from school, &quot;I'm bad! I'm bad! I'm bad!&quot; And I believed it. I was seven years old because it was the only way I could And what I wish I had known back then is that I struggled to find a place but because that struggle and that actually that made feel so different, were things that I had in common I want to demonstrate that that we're all going to do together, if that's okay. What I'd like to do is say some feelings that I experienced made me feel like I was the only one And if you've ever felt that same way, if you've resonated what I'd like you to do at the end So here we go. Here are some of the things I have felt like I don't belong. I have felt like, deep down, I have felt like I've needed to hide I have felt afraid that they would leave. I have felt lonely even in a group. If anybody here has resonated if anybody here has had of any one of those things, could you raise your hand now? Thank you for raising your hands. That's a lot of people! Wow! Thank you, guys. I think what that tells us is that these are that they're just part of being human. That means that we all want and people we're connected with, and that it's just part That means that we've had pain very significant pain. And that's true, regardless of diagnosis. And the moment that I realized that, the moment that I realized my struggle everything began to change because I started to see the way forward. It happened the first day To put things into context, just before starting freshman year, my family had moved So I'd left behind everything and I had just been diagnosed So I knew that all would be neurologically different from me, not just &quot;normal different.&quot; This terrified me. My mom tells me that on the first day of school, and she found that I was because I'd been shivering just afraid of the morning to come. But once again, I had a plan, except this time, it was about survival. I was going to become the Invisible Man. I would be like one of the from one of my video games, sneaking around behind enemy lines, I was actually kind of excited and at first, it worked out really well. I sat in the back of every class, never raised my hand, I made it all the way to lunch But lunch presented a problem because at lunch, you sit at lunch tables, and I needed to avoid the other people. So, that was okay. I was like a Navy SEAL, &quot;Adapt! Improvise! Overcome! So, I got my food thinking that I would just But then, disaster struck again: the door to the class was locked; So, &quot;Adapt, improvise, overcome.&quot; I sat on the floor. My first day of freshman year, and I was eating my lunch with my back to the hallway wall, trying very hard not to be noticed. And then, I saw something strange. I saw there was another boy also sitting eating his lunch alone And at that moment, See, the invisible-man Nobody has punched (Chuckles) And if I reached out to that other boy, He might make fun of me, he might he might decide that I was bad. But the thing that had stuck with me the thing that I couldn't as I just looked at this other boy, is that no matter how hard what I wanted more What I wanted so desperately sit down next to me and say, but I'll be your friend And I realized that this other boy but he probably was still wishing that somebody and I had the opportunity So I stood up, I walked over to him and I said, &quot;My name's Daniel.&quot; And he said, &quot;My name's Bobby.&quot; And there was a long pause and he said, &quot;Do you like video games?&quot; And I knew, at that moment, that I had just made and not just my first friend, This is a picture of the two of us. Bobby and I became inseparable, and what his friendship taught me is that other people not just sources of pain. And so, I switched my behavior And believe me, joy is And trying to have more joyful connection, I started to reach out more, I started to make more friends, people who cared about me even though who I was But the problem is that love You can work off of reserves for a while, but if you don't have a steady supply, and that's what happened to me. A few years ago, I moved here to Oregon to start a graduate program and I left behind my community all of the people who were filling my life And after a few failed attempts what I found is that those old fears they started to creep back again, &quot;Maybe I don't belong. Maybe I really am bad,&quot; all along. And this became self-fulfilling. I stopped going to social events. My first birthday in Oregon, eating a pizza by myself, because I thought nobody would come. I had once again become the Invisible Man. But this time, somebody saw me. One of my classmates, a man named Kyler, never connecting to anybody else. And so, he decided to take a risk. One day, he sat down &quot;Hey, let's get lunch.&quot; And lunch turned into Friday nights because everything with me and then our video game time and little by little, It's safe to say that You can see a picture of our friendship. (Laughter) On my own, I couldn't shake my fears I couldn't believe But then I had another voice saying, &quot;You do belong. You're not bad. I needed someone else I'm reminded of an old Jewish parable and it says that heaven and hell Everybody is seated around and everybody has a really long spoon. And in hell, everyone is starving because they try to feed themselves, The spoon is too big, But in heaven, people have realized They've realized that their spoons they're for feeding someone else. And so, they feed each other I used to think that being autistic meant that there was that everybody else could go out and get their fill of love and connection But the truth is I was wrong. None of us have a self-sufficient spoon. All of us need each other and all of us deserve each other Nobody is bad, nobody is disqualified, and it's never too late The cool thing is we all have the ability Just as Kyler reached out to me you all have the ability And that might sound like a small thing, but I want you to understand A meta-analysis of 148 research studies found that greater social connection was connected to a 50% reduced risk Fifty percent. That's equivalent to effect and it's greater than the effect If you discovered that you had just by touching somebody, that all you had to do I guarantee you that every single one You'd be running to the next hospital, running into every single room, I want to spread this healing If you had that incredible you wouldn't waste it. And what I want you to understand not the power to heal with a touch, but the power to heal Through the simple decision you can help somebody else You can give somebody knowing that they don't have and in someone's darkest moment, your love might be the reason That is the power of friendship, and that is a power that each Autistic, neurotypical, it doesn't matter; all of you have the ability and invite them to lunch All of you have the ability that you haven't talked to for a while, just to check in. All of you have the ability to meet the deep human need that somebody else has been carrying and maybe has been carrying I am the man that I am today because of people who looked past because of the people that I am not bad, I am loved. Every single one of you All of you have the incredible, to change the course through the simple decision So put your spoon to work, spread some healing, and go be a friend. Thank you. (Applause)