World War III has broken out. The are launching missiles at one another and It's only a matter of time until you get caught up a safe place to lie low and wait for the whole nation in the tropics? Or a country at the safer place that you didn't even know existed. It is impossible to tell who exactly will pretty good ideas. The most likely scenario This would cause the allies of the country Slowly more and more nations would get the confrontation would reach critical mass, The sides are pretty easy to predict for the current geopolitical climate. One side would and the rest of NATO, while the other side and their Allies. There would presumably but one thing is for sure: World What we mean by this is that very few Unlike the previous World Wars, humans over long distances using aircraft, Very few regions of the planet would be However, this does not mean there aren't a few countries would provide safety and peace If you are looking for a safe country to escape options are tropical islands. This may sound thing about islands in the Pacific Ocean is that mainland. The Pacific Ocean is a vast place, and fish dinners, and white sand beaches, Fiji would This island nation sits in the The closest content is Australia, which is thing about this is that during World War III which just adds to the allure of escaping to the Australian continent, you would be so far Fiji itself doesn't have much to offer in It has a very small military so it would not be seen as a threat by either has going for it in terms of remaining safe during resources within its borders. Beautiful beaches the world's superpowers are after while at war. making it one of the safest countries you While the world descended into chaos, a white sand beach with a fishing you could be drinking the national beverage of root of the yaqona (pronounced yang-GO-na) and This is another thing that would make Fiji such happened. Although it doesn't have strategic of food, fertile lands to grow crops, and there are around 300 islands that make up along with your neighbors, you could load up The only problem is that you would be so far was winning or even when the war came to an end war, global communication would probably go down enemy transmissions. This would mean that the only like in the olden days before the have to wait until someone physically came was going on across the ocean. Then again, you probably don't mind not being up to date on If Fiji isn't isolated enough for you, there that could be even more appealing Tuvalu is a 10 square mile island chain just further from the mainland. There are only around location and lack of natural resources make it an War III. If you did seek refuge in Tuvalu, it is duration of your time in the island nation. Tuvalu airlines that fly to the country probably won't This means that the only other way It is unlikely that one of the sides in World serves no strategic significance, but like that can be gathered from the ocean to There is another island country that is much is a little closer to the mainland, it would New Zealand is a beautiful nation that seems onto a single island. If you are looking for War III and still want seasons and ecological The country itself is a little but it sits further south than both Zealand could potentially be further away which we would expect to happen in Europe, there are many more natural resources in New This would be beneficial if you sought refuge the nation a target for invasion. However, due to There also isn't really much strategic The nation itself has fertile and various landscapes that would provide Around 30% of New Zealand is protected areas where resources can be gathered, It may sound crazy, but there is another help you ride out World War III. For every one This means you will have plenty of wool to make The sheep also help fertilize the land and can creatures will be your best friends as you There are many benefits to living in New but perhaps what would make this nation the ideal is highly developed and the country has been It is because of the steps that years to ensure the country remains that New Zealand consistently is rated one of if you are looking for a country that is isolated, well as beautiful land to live on during World New Zealand does its best to remain a peaceful World War III altogether. In fact, New Zealand is which brings us to our next safe Iceland is over a thousand miles from the This means it is unlikely the country will Like many of the other island nations resources that would allow it to remain What makes Iceland a great place to be during its energy from renewable sources, all harnesses a massive amount of geothermal energy war rages across the planet, Iceland would or any other forms of energy from different parts Iceland could stay out of the conflict and focus Some parts of Iceland can be pretty arid and seafood. If you made your way into the and protected from the rest of the world. but it is incredibly doubtful you would ever However, the best place to be in Iceland during could take advantage of the plentiful fisheries eating seafood every day, you would have There is plenty of land to settle down on in out the war. In fact, the current population in the country. This means there is plenty they decide to relocate to Iceland. If you of land in a small Icelandic fishing village until the war is over. You might even decide There is one downside to Iceland, however. The may cause it to be a staging area to launch is not very likely as both sides would probably send an invasion force across the Atlantic Ocean, that a fleet might sail by Iceland or even make living in northern Iceland all but There are other island nations that would be closer to the action but could still One such country actually started out as Malta sits just off the coast of Sicily in the this might be a good country to run to if your would be consumed by the war, but until then, it refuge for escapees. The nation of Malta is only This means it wouldn't be an initial target for There are several large fortresses around the and Knights Templar during the Crusades. were made to evacuate people to safer off invasions in the past, so it is Maybe Malta could be an embarkation point for This remote archipelago is technically safe country to be in during World War III. But its remote location in the Atlantic would many other parts of the world. The Azores of marine resources. However, people from may have the same idea and head straight This may lead to overcrowding on the archipelago, One part of the world that is often overlooked World War III will likely be fought in the would be World War III starting in Europe or War III will reach North America until later on, targets at some point. Canada is a vast country, remain untouched by World War III due to its cities and certain places along the U.S. border The same can be said about Mexico. the highlands and jungles of the its overall proximity to the U.S. would make However, South America is far enough away in World War III that it would be an ideal The safest country in this Chile is the southernmost country but the city of Puerto Williams is the The country itself has tons of natural that make it easy to escape if the Chile is one of the most developed nations in all infrastructure in place to sustain the country if There are two options of where to go in Chile III. The Andes Mountains stretch across the these mountains that indigenous communities have amounts of fresh water and fertile land that offer protection and serve as a deterrent for any The mountains and many other regions of Chile build a cabin in the woods and a number of wild circumstances. Not to mention that Chile is which means while the Northern Hemisphere becomes you could be getting tipsy off of some The other option is settling as far south as tip of Chile is Antarctica. It is highly unlikely the frozen Antarctic waters. This means living in can be brutally cold, and storms often whip and different varieties of potatoes grow And while we're talking about the extreme the planet than Antarctica during World War one of the science outposts there No one is going to be coming to Antarctica the inability to resupply during that time would you would run out of supplies and but if you could stay in Antarctica until peace There is one other southern country that place to escape to during World War III. You South Africa contains around 10% of all plant, home to around 6% of mammal species. This from the turmoil of World War III. There are and fertile coasts in the country. It also from the regions of the world that would fighting wouldn't even reach its northernmost South Africa also consists of many types no safer city in this part of the world to This is a thriving city with modern infrastructure fishing off the coast and the mountains that the continent. Cape Town isn't as far south as strategically undesirable. Therefore, South Africa Also, like Chile, South Africa Between the abundance of food, its protected South Africa would be a safe and not too Greenland is massive. It is also freezing. that you could find a safe place to wait for The tricky part would be getting to your final borders. There are no roads between the towns finding a safe haven. The more difficult a region For optimal security, you would want to choose Qaanaaq, which sits just inside the the war will likely never reach you at learn the ways of the Inuit people and how but it would all be worth it to have a safe Due to Greenland's location and size, there is III to try and invade its lands. If the war did you could always hop on a boat or helicopter and a town that is far enough out of the way that no Greenland as a whole holds very little strategic would see would be ships sailing by to invade the overhead. There would likely never be forces Living in rural Greenland would be much or fishing off a tropical beach in Fiji. protection from the carnage of World War you need to stay alive. Depending on where you Greenland may be a much more viable option in this video. For example, if you reside Greenland would definitely be the closest safe doesn't mean you should count Greenland out. Although the countries on this list are that World War III breaks out, there is you find yourself in any of the countries you will likely be safe, and the war However, none of that matters if each side The nuclear fallout from the blasts would natural air currents. The rain falling from lethal doses of radiation in every drop. The in their vicinity, causing firestorms that ash into the atmosphere. This could plunge the would plummet as the sun's light is blocked At this point, it wouldn't matter if you were as there would be no escaping this global ending of World War III, the safest place As the countries of the world annihilate one the astronauts aboard the International Space is destroyed before their very eyes. For a short species. Unfortunately, even the astronauts would be the end of humanity, and it would all be So, the safest thing you can do if World War III from this video and hope that the war comes to holocaust is the fate of the planet, then your ship and head for the stars. Eventually, you at least you'll make it slightly longer than the one of the countries with an abundance of wine and Now watch "What Would Happen out "Why You Wouldn't Survive World War 3."