Hydropower is a great source of energy that as other renewables. But dams fail. A lot. About States were built before 1995, and over half ago. This aging infrastructure can be not only human and animal alike. That said, hydropower or 67 stories high. It actually has a lot That's because small hydropower (or SHP) has the Several companies are working toward integrating a smaller ecological footprint. Between bladeless turbine and Turbulent's snail-shaped there's plenty of opportunity to having to worry about the safety So, how else can small hydro impact our I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Several of you have shared with me some looks to combine hydroelectric efficiency and likes of SHP bladeless turbines by Vortex Turbulent. This video was also inspired by my design a few months back. He goes into detail so if you're interested in the nuts and We'll be diving deep into how these turbines let's talk about why there's so much interest in stake here. With SHP, nearby communities can constantly-flowing water without the typical dam and high...heights...otherwise The hydraulic head is an important part of our is, don't worry, I didn't either. "Hydraulic" is energy per unit of weight, so a higher tower has a this quantity, and the larger the drop, the more rides over the edge of a waterfall will tell Let's zoom out here for an example of just how a much better study of hydro anatomy than world's largest. Situated on the Parana River that this massive monolith stretches on for nearly a whopping 196 meters (643 feet) high. For right toward the coast of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the Redeemer. The Itaipu Dam is about as tall So, to say the dam has a huge head is a rate of 62,200 cubic meters per second is minute. That's 40 times the average rate you know, half a million times more than The impressive size of these dams represents a certain areas. Thankfully, you don't have to go SHP companies like Vortex Hydro and Turbulent have slower streams of water, which means generation in a much broader spectrum of sites. waterfalls...and more remote areas can stick to Let's start with the Vortex Hydro approach. Vortex that has been around for some time. They weren't the technology has been around for ages, it Vortex Hydro is a U.S.-based company that does a modern, bladeless turbine model that of researchers at the Czech Technical originally developed and patented this How exactly do you turn a Well, before I get into that, there's another testing and using for the past year that's really Eight Sleep. I'm pretty sure I'm not alone when sleep every night. I either get overheated in or get too cold and need to pull on an extra I tend to get migraine headaches, which isn't for a little over a year now and have seen a huge actually drop in temperature as we fall asleep, warm up as we wake. The cover tracks your sleep the temperature up ... or down ... to improve it heats and cools. It's pumping heated and can adjust each side of the bed independently, so My wife is absolutely loving our Eight Sleep Pod. each night and miss it when I'm traveling and in the description to get one today. I highly you for supporting the channel. So how exactly do With the power of Charybdis &lt;--ka-rib-dis--&gt;. of the ultimate metaphor for Archimedian fun little whirlpools that we witness in this case, it was whirlpools found along inspired Sedlacek to study vortexes So, imagine what would happen if you these swirling waves. It would Now that we've got the ball rolling...we as the SETUR was initially called. Basically, motion -- it rolls around the inside of the cranking the generator. It's almost like a the basketball is sliding around the hoop Water flowing through the shape of the gap that will continuously make the entire rotor it's the rotation of the rotor itself that Another aspect of the SETUR that makes it really that it's not your typical micro-hydro system. It in a water body that already has one. It doesn't to it through piping. Instead, it works below the vortex. As a reminder, if you want to learn I highly recommend Ryan's video. The inventors design in 2022, because like all physics, there's The SETUR comes in two models: the SETUR-M, and the SETUR-L, rated for 5 kW (with you can expect to produce anywhere from 4,380 you can churn out between 43,800 The larger SETUR produces more than enough power the average U.S. home, which amounted to roughly here that those of us in the US tend to use a lot and one of the primary conveniences of SHP without grid access. In other words, well-sited And the SETUR definitely isn't picky. The smaller 50 meters (164 feet), with the larger able to feet) of water. The turbine needs a minimum head and it can also perform in water bodies with toss a SETUR into rivers and irrigation also has marine applications, allowing you tidal streams. On top of all that, the While this is an exciting development, the SETUR's make use of low-flow, low-head environments in you can't stick these things everywhere. They and their official manual recommends under these conditions. That's one point for dams, which instead rely on reservoirs that are often Then there's of course the perils of sharing fish. It doesn't seem that the SETUR has the manuals suggest using intake screens flows through the system in order to protect SETUR system probably has a significantly lower it still has the potential to negatively affect How can we take small hydro a step wildlife? Turbulent is one company aiming Turbulent markets its submersible vortex turbine It also happens to look like a snail when viewed The golden ratio. You could probably develop Any way you interpret its design, Turbulent's head of 1.5 meters (or about 5 feet) and a cubic feet per second). As a result, opens up a lot of possibilities. And like setups involve directing flowing water through So, how much power are we talking about? Here's fit the turbine to the job. Turbulent offers setups in line with the dimensions of the site 15 to 70 kW. It's worth noting here that you can along the same body of water. And remember, we're Rivers aren't as capricious as the wind, and don't In fact, Turbulent claims that a micro power 90% plant factor, also known as a capacity to the difference between what's planned and what It's a comparison of a power plant's actual based on how long it's up and running. For but on average it tends to lie somewhere utility scale solar's capacity factor while that sounds like a big negative, it's That isn't to say that Turbulent turbines are seasonality is still a concern. Water height is, heat. This means that in hotter summers, you might less energy. Then there's the problem of winter. turbines that act as a defense against ice. If squishing it without damaging the components. the design can't completely defeat intermittency, With this in mind, you might be wondering: Why pool your resources into one macro-plant? head scale up, so does the amount of electricity back to the Itaipu Dam for a sec, this risk-reward 700 MW each, its max production capacity tops enough to cover around 90% of Paraguay's At the same time, 13 years passed from of operations. By Itaipu's completion, the consequently set off an influx of more than 30 had previously separated. On top of this, the displaced at least 65,000 people in Meanwhile, it took the Turbulent team less than River of Bali, Indonesia. The turbine serving over 700 students and staff. Better fish to move freely, and the river's natural many examples of Turbulent projects you can find Thinking smaller rather than bigger also means that manifests _after_ the dust has settled. Since recordkeeping began, an average of 10 dam of these happen at smaller sites, which thankfully awry, it can cost human lives, require extensive Overall, large dams can only be located in the ecosystem. However, they generate a lot of and are generally low maintenance, long-lasting installation locations, since they don't require environment. It's good for the consumer and As of 2019, small hydropower systems (that is, installed capacity of about 78 GW, according Organization. That's quite a ways behind wind and other renewables, though, and there's certainly no But what do you think about Jump into the comments and let me