As telescopes like the James Webb look out the growing buzz around newly discovered 1992 - that we found the first planet outside have been confirmed in the relatively small area that we reside in. When the Milky Way this offers us a tantalising promise of of our galaxy. Every star on average likely has With all these exoplanets out there just waiting turn our thoughts towards goldilocks zones humanity has its eye on colonising the stars, and mathematically speaking. In fact, you might being delivered in headlines of articles been discovered that would be ideal However, don't believe the hype. All the it scientifically - sucked. And once you'll agree that moving to any of them will be I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. real-estate tour on the potential and explain why right now is the wrong time When choosing an Earth 2.0, just like with by establishing your non-negotiables. Some of temperature. You want a nice, temperate and not too hot. Given that temperature every planetary system has a sweet spot where right" - not too hot, and not too cold - similar As a rough rule of thumb if a planet is at the a suitable temperature for us to set up shop. all, Venus - a planet residing in this zone - atmosphere makes it the hottest planet in our from the Sun compared with Mercury. So it's Speaking of atmosphere, that's also something something with oxygen and water vapour, but at least something that could trap heat in, However, sometimes a non-negotiable is simply consider the first major reason why the galaxy's Our own star is known as a G-type yellow dwarf, a at least compared to some of the other options 10 billion years before their cores collapse and and that stability has been useful for the yellow dwarfs are far from common in the Milky Way more common in occurrence are the longer-lived our galaxy, and can live for around 14 trillion And unfortunately for the planets orbiting For starters, red dwarfs have a much yellow cousins. They burn less brightly - with that of our Sun's - so unless you want to live sounds cold and depressing to me, and will you'd want an Earth 2.0 to be a lot This wouldn't be in and of itself a characteristic of red dwarfs that make them Our Sun is the main source of our space weather. flares, and coronal mass ejections. However, weather created by red dwarfs. Flares from red than those emitted by our Sun. The frequent red dwarfs are powerful and dangerous and even boil liquid water on planets much closer planets are to their star in a enough time to arise before being hit with slim. If you want to live on a planet around a red This rules out many exoplanets, such as some scientists hoped might be habitable. time in quite uncomfortable conditions in the experience would hardly be pleasant. But even there's another problem with planets around red Being tidally locked means that the same side of There is no rotation between day and night - and the other side is in permanent shadow. near their sun have a tendency towards being with its days that last 176 Earth-days, rotation could render most of the planet desert-creating heat on the day side, Even if humans tried to live in the narrow band of liquid water might prove difficult to find. to the night side of the planet would get the planet would be very dry; and even in And that's not to mention the low power of a a tidally locked planet. The dynamo effect thought to be influenced by the Coriolis effect to rising and falling liquid metal such a magnetic field would be inevitably weaker. So, I'm sorry to say that this rules out planets Proxima Centauri b is otherwise an interesting easiest planets to get to for us, situated only Earth-like planet, which is convenient, as to anyone with a fondness for solid floors its mass and radius are very similar to Why is this important? Let's compare Kepler 452-b. The first planet to and the planet described by a NASA scientist has much to recommend it. It is orbiting around This means it's in the goldilocks zone that makes it is a Super-Earth. This means it has its gravity about twice that of Earth's. much? Some scientists researching the question this being about the limit of what a human could Earth's gravity could get rather uncomfortable. To approximation of it, imagine lying down, but then putting all their weight onto you. This is your for . Come daybreak, you must lift that extra carry them with you everywhere you go. Everywhere. easier to break a bone. Falling down stairs Everyone must do this. The trying to take their first, wobbling step. Keeping this in mind, it's easy to grasp might end up being. If you're a body-builder for most people on Earth, it would be a slow your blood around, making it feel like And if you want to triple the gravity? And things don't get much better going the other as that weight is lifted. However, living under that we can see from astronauts who've spent Station. Over time, the calcium bleeds out of muscles atrophy. Your heart develops issues. Your exercising every day, your long-term prospects - a fact that is challenging NASA scientists outposts on places like the Moon, or Mars, where Humans have spent millions of years adapting to are here. We're just not suited to anywhere else some respects it's a testament to how well we've but it's a big obstacle if we And so, the hunt for Earth 2.0 goes on. As undiscovered planets in our Milky Way galaxy. meets our criteria for gravity, temperature, lack atmosphere and water, are high enough to be a criteria is a more challenging task, particularly strongest telescopes, except for a brief moment and block out its light. If someone tells I'd take it with a pinch of salt. We won't suitable for human life until we somehow cross the Of course, until we discover how to do that, life has developed on this Earth for millions connection we have to those who've gone on stories you can thanks to my partner for great great grandfather who was born at Sea day and were never seen again although the taken out of the side I'd never heard this delve into my family history using my Heritage my access to over 19 million historical records even discover living relatives you never knew can help you connect whole branches of your enhancing tools can repair colorize and even to life if you use my QR code here or Link in get a 14-day free trial on my Heritage and 50% try thanks for watching want to learn more out this video here a big thanks to my patrons and at the end of each astram video check out the