Are you new to Linux and looking for a distro? fork or flavor or remix when choosing a distro. to help you pick the right one that works how different Linux distros are related independent and standing on their own. Others And there are even distros that are like Now I know what you're thinking, who cares? is based on another distro can save you a lot of a distro is based on another distro and which one affect everything from which apps you can use to let's say you stumble upon an app that comes Ubuntu. Chances are it'll also work just fine of Ubuntu. As long as it matches the version Knowing whether a distro is a derivative is in. There are numerous types of derivatives and interchangeably to describe the same thing. Independent and derivative. Independent is pretty unique, so it's not based on anything else. Things types of distros borrow components, tools, and so here's the deal. Some Linux distros have jealous. You've got the big enterprise players got their community buddies like Fedora, OpenSUSE, Those enterprise distros are using their community Red Hat's using Fedora, SUSE is using OpenSUSE, The enterprise companies give resources and the community distros provide a foundation to base seen as a symbiotic relationship of sorts because case for every derivative, but we'll get to that. forks, flavors, remixes, and clones, with remixes Additionally, you may come across other terms such others, but these are just alternative names for flavor and remix rather than spin and re-spin Let's kick things off with remixes. This term derivative distro. While some may argue that remix I believe remix sets itself apart by not being a is a modified version of an existing distro that the desktop environment, but they can also vary in a particular workflow like media production systems like immutable systems. There are plenty a few. The term re-spin is sometimes used instead under the umbrella of remixes. Each of them has them, so let's talk about those. Flavors are existing distribution. What sets them apart from sanctioned additions by the original distro they mean that the original distribution itself creates supporting the efforts of a community project sometimes the term spin is used instead of essentially repackages an existing distro into The primary aim of a clone is to closely mimic the entire source code, create a copy, and establish a the clone. And when it comes to clones, one distro RHEL, Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Clones essentially striving to maintain a high level of compatibility The motivations behind creating derivatives there's a bit of complexity and even some drama time and not directly relevant to this video. But drama surrounding RHEL clones, let me know in the type of derivative that take the source code of make substantial changes to how the distro is characteristics of having separate infrastructures route. Unlike clones, which aims to closely mimic all sorts of modifications and alterations. change the user experience through the interface, approaches to making the distro. In essence, ideas and offer a different, distinct experience technically complex type of derivative because components rather than specific areas, even can be further classified into two subcategories, fork. Soft fork occurs when a derivative is a new version with a separate infrastructure. new code updates from the base distro. Ubuntu originated as a fork of Debian but regularly from Debian. This ongoing synchronization is what contributes back to Debian, forming a symbiotic a hard fork takes place when a derivative its own separate trajectory without integrating the distinction between soft forks and hard forks updates with the base distro versus a one-time sum up, understanding the relationships between for navigating the vast landscape of options. including remixes, flavors, clones, and forks, purposes. Remixes offer something new by officially recognized remixes sanctioned by the distro while forks take a more creative route. equipped to choose the right Linux distro for Whether you're seeking compatibility, specific the intricacies of derivatives will help empower distribution. If you found this video helpful, thoughts in the comments. Thanks for watching,