Let's say you want to become pope, head 1 billion faithful. What requirements must you have for this lofty 1) Be a catholic and 2) Be a man. Which seems a little thin... and, while it's Catholic to become pope, the last time this pope isn't like becoming president, you Selecting the pope is an inside job and the in theory they can select any catholic man elevate one of their own. The last time a non-cardinal become pope was So, while it isn't an official requirement, Thus in order to be pope you'll first need to start climbing the catholic corporate ladder.* Step 1: Become a Priest. Unlike some churches where you can fill out The Catholic Church treats becoming a priest So you're going to require a lot of education: and then a masters in divinity. In addition to your educational qualifications, A man Willing to remain celibate forever.+ working with the church, then you can be officially Which basically means you get to run a Catholic But, you want onward and to do that you need a priest. Step 2: Become a Bishop there are about 400,000 catholic priests world While priests get churches, bishops get cathedrals, churches. To advance your career you must wait for a at age 75 or die sooner than that - freeing But you can't just apply, because there's that's updated every three years based on would make a good replacement for one of their To be on that list, in addition to the obvious also: Be least 35 years old Have a doctorate in theology (or equivalent) may, or may not be on the secret list. The local bishops then give that list to the as the Apostolic Nuncio. The Nuncio picks three priests from the list, and selects the one he thinks is best. But it's not over, because the Nuncio sends of bishops who work there reviewing potential If the congress of bishops doesn't like the Nuncio to start over: returning to the more research, more interviews and sending When the congress of bishops is happy with is given to the pope, who can reject the candidate It shouldn't be a surprise that from a vacancy and, on occasion, years. But assuming that a bishop in your area retired the secret list of good priests and the Nuncio and the congress of bishops approved you and now a bishop. But you're still not on top. The penultimate promotion is... Step 3: Become a Cardinal. Despite the fancy name and snazzy red outfits they are bishops, just with an additional most notable of which is electing the new The only way to become a cardinal is to get of the 5,000 bishops, only about 200 are ever But let's say your ambition doesn't go - now it's time to play the waiting game death is vastly more likely. When either happens the cardinals under the they are isolated from the outside world - presumably and carrier pigeons. Once sequestered, the election of a new pope These elections are never exactly the same how he wants his replacement to be picked, a day the cardinals go to the Sistine Chapel get a 2/3rds majority. There's a big dose of musent-be-too-hasty hands, or use a modern preferential voting a piece of paper stand before the alter and casting the ballot. Once all the cardinals have done this, the This why TV news stations covering the election cameras to look at a chimney. If the smoke is black, no new pope. The high victory threshold, and tediously to elect a new pope. It's usually at least two weeks of voting day a week for prayer) but the record length Assuming you, eventually, win the support thing to do before becoming pope: pick yourself There is no formal rule, you can name yourself take the name of a previous pope. Upon your acceptance of the job, the final white and announce to the world that a new So that's the career path: be born into of a billion catholics, then one of 400,000 of 200 cardinals, wait for the current pope fellow cardinals to select you as the one,