Not far from the majestic Colorado, is an ordinary quiet, tree lined street home not the kind of place investigation into black but it did. Our look into counterfeit with purchasing Ozempic company we thought was What we found, was that international marketplace, brazenly counterfeiting real thing overseas on the shipping them to the U.S. to turn a profit. The main targets; Novo Ozempic, as well as its And Eli Lilly's Mounjaro, of wildly popular weight . From New York. This is a dangerous product. To the UK. So would you like to have a genuine and which one is To Turkey. This is a very profitable To China and around the You're playing with people's With serious health risks. Fueled by thousands of accounts. Offering discounts big the risks. The Ozempic we cost $219, while Real $1,000 for a month's Wegovy is about 1300, and are more than $1,000. Both Novo Nordisk and Eli It's a massive problem, hard time to understand how We're worried they could be take them. We found Laver Beauty openly featuring this promotion on From the address listed on like a U.S. company, but package sent via DHL with Shijiazhuang, China, about Let's open it up and see It's a plain cardboard box. It doesn't appear to have it's supposed to be like it might have been a point. Although it's warm it, one milligram. And here's the Novo Nordisk And here's the pen. Looks like the real thing, The instructions are in needles to go with the pen. Was this real Ozempic that or a fake? And why did it company has a Colorado question. But first, our the UK, where hundreds of have been seized. In the murky world of black tell what's real and what's The fakes are that good. Andy Malling is deputy enforcement for the Products Regulatory Agency. So would you like to have a genuine and which one is This one is real. The other one with the It is to us a very crude any sense at all, but it's don't have this level of comparison to make, inject cause themselves We saw that the demand as often happens in these fill a gap where the supply balanced for a particular seeing real counterfeit product on the market. A total of 869 counterfeit with 500 of them Europe before ending up in The remaining ones are online, and he says all the at all. They're actually These are completely manufactured somewhere we made to look very much like Someone on a relatively hold of the genuine insulin replaced it with with a No more Ozempic seizures this year because Malling of Novo Nordisk's Wegovy Still, he has a dire Don't feed the illegal They don't care about us. All they care about, is people's vulnerability. Just how big is the black drugs? Counterfeit Ozempic countries, according to the which issued a worldwide And here in the U.S., the that it had seized counterfeit Ozempic and the drug supply chain. FDA records also show cases linked to counterfeit And fighting the fakes is This is Mounjaro. This is the real thing. And this is Zepbound. Doctor Daniel Skovronsky is officer and president of At Lilly Headquarters in how deceptive the knockoffs Here's one of the most we've seen. You can see Mounjaro. It's actually a of painted the the top a different sticker on it. And a totally different they've just relabeled it Mounjaro. It's another drug It doesn't cause weight world like Mounjaro comes Mounjaro, and it has pens Mounjaro, but it's not He says this sample was Here's one that came from It had a FDA sticker on it. It's very official. Yeah put their name on stickers. And again, it's packaged in is a legitimate Eli Lilly But the drug inside the pen And counterfeiters are the company's next drug, retatrutide. It's not even on the market being sold on numerous We're testing it in phase We don't know yet, but I next year and we'll find You can already find that Yeah. That's crazy. Even the real retatrutide use outside of clinical advantage of people's You know, in this case, strongest medicine possible science. And they think they're absolutely not. If it's not counterfeit, it At JFK's international mail country, intercepting Pharmaceuticals are only seizures last year of all illegal items. This is the type of towards. Sal Ingrassia is the port U.S. Customs and Border You are taking a risk when through the mail, through Ingrassia says officers are loss drugs double the This table is full of Wegovy, all mailed from It looks real. I mean, to somebody who's pretty convincing. Yes, the counterfeits are Some of these products may made for a foreign market the United States. For the most part, the social media and websites The payoff in diverting list prices in the U.S. are higher than prices For example, the list price is $968. It's as low as $59 in and less than $100 in parts could be even bigger if the So these boxes from to individuals? Mostly So these are mostly ordering this going online Right. And and obviously that. But we've also seen by doctor's offices. Doctor's offices. Doctor offices. Yes. Where we've intercepted Before, they could have been patients. The Ozempic we untold number of packages that managed to evade We showed it to Ingrassia. So we ordered this online, We ordered it, by the way, Colorado, and it came from Right. And that's a normal comfortable that they're ordering from the United a factory somewhere in anything in it. This is a We returned to the where this time we're shown Mounjaro, again mailed from This is not destined for the market. This obviously is it's probably coming I noticed in looking at some them actually have what prescriptions attached to So it's prescribed by a So why is this an issue if doctor ordered, so to Because of the way it's where it's being shipped And what happens to the Unless they're part of an FDA, Ingrassia says customs destroy the pens because medical devices. In some cases, they'll be they'll be sent back market they are destined authority that we have and So all of this will be sent All of it will be returned To the sender, who could it right back. We may be intercepting these To go after the sellers, the teamed up with BrandShield, remove fraudulent drug Ceo Yoav Keren showed us were taken down. This is a Facebook account different drugs of GLP one. We have another TikTok This looks fake to me. It says 64 followers. How could it possibly be It looks fake to you. Not everyone will notice. Keren says BrandShield got related to bogus weight Eight times the number in I don't see the scammers We continue fighting them. It's like whack a mole. It but we're on them, so we're This is our technology. We find them very quickly. Both TikTok and Meta, the and Instagram, told us they prescription drugs and the federal government. This is a big problem. Nicole Johnson is national Intellectual Property We are seeing a lot of from Europe and South counterfeits, a lot of what the United States is just pens, so people can original packaging and fill Are you surprised at all trying to get these weight the market? Absolutely not. Criminals money. Right now, johnson says the counterfeits and diverted UK, Mexico and Turkey. There, she says, government have fueled the counterfeit What criminals normally do exploit to make more money. So the pharmaceuticals were to be brought out of the throughout the world. So really something that and it's been exploited. Istanbul, Turkey may be Bosphorus, surrounded by mosques, an ancient city tourists every year. But it's also one of the counterfeit drug trade. Last fall, Turkish police Istanbul, part of a crackdown. Among the sites complexes and warehouse It's one thing to It's a very, very different a medicine. Maziar Mike Doustdar is Novo Nordisk's based in Zurich. How hot is Turkey as a hot It is one of the the And an interesting fact I that we have been able to counterfeiters are using, equipment. So these are that does the packaging original company equipment. So they source the the same place, let's say, sourcing it. So they make very similar to, to the So let me get this straight. The counterfeiters are that you are using to their fake. Some of them. In fact, Turkey is now known transit hub where shipped to the U.S. and other countries. After the reorganization of Covid 19 breakdown, we saw shifting to Turkey. Direnc Bada is an attorney pharmaceutical companies in We see a lot of police raids diabetes, counterfeits, we see an increasing amount these products. And it is to sell these through But that's not stopping the At the JFK International showed us this seized from Turkey. The counterfeiters, now, to promoting selling products. So back to that Ozempic we from Laver Beauty the Colorado address. Was it a sophisticated fake diverted or stolen and We call the number listed Hi, this is Melissa. I received my Ozempic had some questions. Can you give me a call, back, but someone named WhatsApp. All our products We don't sell fake ones, he I asked, is this the same US? The product is the entering the Chinese market So it is a Chinese version Novo Nordisk says the to be diverted legitimate for and distributed to the 23 and early 24. Therefore, it would be the U.S. market. The company went on to the sterility, which may infection for patients who We go through incredible sure that our real products factories all the way to in cold chain and small temperature in the shipment makes us not be able to drug anymore. Still, one question remained between this House listed and the return address on We track that address to Shijiazhuang, China, up an door. Behind it, Laver's As for the address on the online, but it was even on with the State of Colorado those documents led us to Aurora, Colorado and The homeowners told us for Laver beauty, even this no connection to the all. And they have company is using their The Laver sales me on WhatsApp the Boulder address of our U.S. warehouse. And he added, if Ozempic, he sent us to this $169. Laver beauty did not comment. The day after we Colorado address was Just one player in the drugs. You're playing with people's Patients are putting perhaps even death, by drugs.