Motorola is one of the most important companies phone, among many other inventions, but took hit after hit. They were left with no Google and left with none of their technology. but not out. Somehow after all of this, they but began to thrive. This is how. Setup communications company, but that's massively In the second World War, they made a two-way radio: The SCR-300, which soon It was a pivotal tool for the US Army Corps, But that's just the beginning. S-Band" radio, a crucial piece of equipment The radio was responsible for one of the most Motorola's has a long history beyond unbelievable how big an impact Yet shockingly, these pivotal examples Tension engineer Martin Cooper had just finished calling, anywhere. But it was fully handheld, attached to a vehicle, and it wasn't a radio...! but this was just the prototype. It would take masses, and over $100 million. In 1983, they released the first commercial It was bulky, needed 10 hours to charge, time. But it was the first of it's kind. Despite all of this, people were The waitlists were in the thousands. but Motorola kept working. Motorola created and dominated the mobile phone DynaTAC, they still had a 45% market share, and In the early 2000s, they had a fierce rivalry ultra-thin flip phone, and one of the history. The Razr 3 sold over 130 million units. Almost everyone living today is directly impacted what happened next, so surprising. Setup of mobile phones was changed forever. The industry for a little bit. But after the reveal of and full touch screen, there was no going back. Tension were already most of the way there. Their phones, Most competitors had a bulky appearance, but They also released the Motorola Q in 2006, Yet they were lacking something crucial. The app store, Motorola phones had no flash interface like Plus, just by looking at the Motorola Q, you it was running Windows as its operating system. Motorola's business. But these Time was running out. They Resolution / Payoff an operating system... but Motorola was hesitant. It first "smartphone": the Droid. It gained some then, it wasn't really what consumers wanted. it was a slide phone, with a full keyboard. But it wasn't quite right. It looked In truth, The Droid only delayed the inevitable. but by 2009, that had fallen all the way to 6%. about half the industry. Their profits were also In fact, it got so bad that in 2011 that company on wider telecommunications, and Motorola was unfortunate, but necessary. Motorola Mobility so they went their separate ways. as just Motorola from here. worst thing to happen to Motorola. Their true fall Chapter 3: Google "Saves" The Day In 2012, Motorola, at one of their lowest points 12.5 billion, their biggest acquisition to date. who laid out his plan: Motorola Mobility's remarkable talent on fewer, are used by people around the world." (Source) Why would Google want a dying phone company? Under Google's ownership, Motorola introduced These were a huge leap forward, and much closer the line, innovative offering. It had advanced it was pricey, at $620 which made it difficult to Conversely, the Moto G was aimed at lower price quad-core processor and used the Android OS. customers loved it, and it found a fantastic Yet, even with this success, it didn't matter. honest. Google didn't care about Motorola's Resolution / Payoff after their acquisition, Google began bleeding Motorola had thousands and thousands of exactly what Google was interested in. They patents. Taking 15,000 of Motorola's In January 2014, Google announced the sale of bought them for. Just under $3 billion, less than To make matters worse, Woodside, saw this opportunity to jump ship to Dropbox. seemed like the end for the company. Setup itself and dominated it. Yet they lost time players. Now, they had lost most of their patents This should have been the end for They were down, but not out. even as a subsidiary, they needed to pivot. They There was one man ready to revive Motorola, Buniac, now the president of the company, wasn't 20 year veteran of Motorola. He had seen it all, was ready to put an end to this losing streak. Tension but their competitors had better technology, of the line model, the Moto X, underperformed. But most of their competitors Motorola's price friendly model however, their history in function-based phones, they were This was the core of Buniac's new strategy. world markets... but they were too Buniac pivoted Motorola towards India and Latin but the individual buying power of customers quality smartphones to these areas, with value here than their competitors, Buniac also knew the market very well on the ground as the sales director. Resolution / Payoff Latin America, and Southeast Asia. A new that's not all, as they also released the Moto E, Despite their low prices, they making them great value for money. They also It wasn't long before the strategy Motorola soon became one of the most popular market share in Latin America, with the Moto Yet, during all of this, Their phones offered such good value, that they itself. Not enough to overtake Apple or Samsung, brand, holding an impressive 10% market share. the impossible, they had emerged from Grand Payoff the company to die. They were just another sad But they didn't die. losing market share, their patents and It shows that what matters most of If you hit the right niche, and offer the right Motorola Mobile is now thriving, and Motorola Solutions is also doing well Motorola looks extremely different than they did grit are stronger than ever and that's saying CTA hardship. Their early rival: Nokia faced similar direction. Did you know they actually mocked Their story is just as shocking, and somehow, Click here to learn how Nokia went