The Scandies Rose, a crab vessel known was the type of fishing boat deckhands would &quot;The Battleship&quot; or &quot;The Tank&quot;, this vessel, like fishing earned the nicknames through decades of conditions are unpredictable and can have deadly Laid down by Bender Shipbuilding out of Mobile, &quot;Enterprise&quot; the boat was built for one purpose; expansive decks that will be loaded and offloaded Most importantly, their ability to remain stable Crab season frequently sees these boats navigation, freezing temperatures and an often The Enterprise would change hands in 1989 operated by Scandies Rose Fishing Company LLC it world of crab fishing. At a length of 130 feet or a width or beam of 34.6 feet, a draft depth 195. Powered by twin Detroit Diesel 12 cylinder or 805 horsepower to each screw. This to navigate unforgiving Alaskan waters. With no and only minor modifications during routine throughout its life. The vessel had seen operation Gulf of Alaska and was the subject of episode 8 2020. The Scandies Rose was Captained by 45-year boat, Cobban was a man known by his colleagues Safety Conscious&quot; and, &quot;The Most Experienced success in Alaskan waters. The ship and captain In Spring of 2019, the vessel received a Fisherman's Maritime Services Incorporated. The near Seattle for dry dock inspection, then floated The vessel's owners considering the boat's sale, forward. These inspection companies check vessels electronics to engines, toilets and plumbing and conditions evaluated. The total market value, 3.5 million dollars; the value it should sell for. In fact, noted by the inspection company; scantlings and workmanship. The construction of Bender Shipbuilding during the late 1970s. are on par with the best of the Starting Sunday December 29, in the Kodiak a Cod and Opilio Crab fishing voyage began. On one acting as engineer, another as deck The crew's experience ranging from brand The captain's son among them; David Leigh Cobban. the vessel for a planned departure of Monday the Bering Sea on the north side of the Aleutian The Cod and Opilio or &quot;Snow Crab&quot; season roughly two to three weeks. This new year season During the nearly two day prep, 195 groceries and potable water brought aboard, hatches tightened, bait stocks replenished and stability specifications. On Monday the 30th providing instructions on; donning survival suits, the location of the vessel's Emergency &quot;EPIRB&quot; and how to perform MAYDAY calls Crew members would describe Captain Cobban's The crew also discussed weather forecasts along app to receive forecast info. The captain and to be bad.&quot; The forecast called for heavy gales rough weather is generally the norm for these notorious for it. In fact, several other vessels The Scandies Rose got underway Monday December 30th. The intended route would then southwest toward the Shelikof Strait and and ultimately, the Bering Sea. On a steady the captain would be at the helm in six hour in for one hour shifts, covering the opposite would repeat. These vessels often maintain such because mariners aboard typically need to gain Each vessel may have their own variation &quot;wear many hats&quot; as it were. Each crew member to ensure engines, auxiliary equipment and Ice accumulation (accretion) in these waters it was thought to be factored in when using When freezing spray from wind and waves begins changing the center of gravity, creating weight and sinking vessels. Although commercial fishing over the past few decades, the dangers are ever similar to The Scandies Rose, capsized and sank The vessel, found by investigators to have been stack, leading to a deadly unrecoverable list. In as a sort of catch-net, increasing accumulation was also found that the Destination had left port &quot;Stability&quot; or to oversimplify; a vessel's plays a crucial role in the world of shipping and from the smallest row boat to the largest fuel and oil acting as ballast, securing cargo, and after, weight change, load shift, fishing, accounted for in maintaining stability, especially rough waters. These fishing boats and their Captain Cobban took over the watch the next living up to predictions. Deckhands reported a and freezing spray accumulating to about an stack. The crew noting that it was not enough the industry stating they don't attempt have gathered. That quote; &quot;Anything less would Ice removal also requires the vessel be idle and ensuring spray is reduced in the meantime, the crew as they negotiate icy exposed decking, wielding heavy tools like sledge Despite the poor conditions, the vessel maintained knots with 20-30 foot seas. The Scandies Rose had waters. At 11:18 am, the captain placed a call via The Amatuli was en-route to Dutch Harbor. Several to navigate around Kodiak island to the south due majority and managing owner of The Scandies Rose, The conversation however, was fairly unremarkable. Amatuli's captain stating they pulled into a &quot;foul&quot;. Captain Cobban remarking at the end of his vessel was experiencing light Again, for fishing operations like these At about 2pm the captain ended his watch and The The vessel's average speed had slowed a bit from a steady course to the southwest. Weather The vessel churning its way through high seas, and the bow crashing through wave after wave. By 7:15 pm a crew member woke the captain for discussed the deteriorating conditions. list to starboard due to ice buildup on the pot two degrees was not exactly concerning. More and the vessel could correct this The fuel already acts as ballast and shifting ideal, is also somewhat commonplace, especially already assuming it would be needed before the fellow captains and peers agreed they'd have captain Cobban called a friend in North She didn't hear anything alarming by the sound of vessel was icing, had a slight list and they would Shortly after, roughly eight captain Cobban called the Amatuli once again. The The two men discussed the weather, Scandies advising Cobban to quote, &quot;be cautious.&quot; The wind howling at an approximate 60 to 70 knots seas 30 feet or more. The Scandies Rose starboard enough to warrant the vessel make for the closest five and a half miles due east of Sutwik vessel Pacific Sounder. The Sounder was currently Its captain, longtime friend of Cobban and fellow concerned about a 20-degree list and that icing too rough to send the crew out and break ice. That sutwik island. However, the Sounders captain noted even following up with casual conversation about ownership. At which point the Sounder's captain at 9:10 pm so he could tend to his own 9:45 pm and the Automatic Identification Systems two and a half miles south of Sutwik Island altering to a northwesterly course toward The captain on the Pacific Sounder had completed time, 9:45pm when he decided to call captain the veteran captain's normally stoic tone had how this is going to go, the list has gotten a the Sounder's captain attempted to call back 10 On board The Scandies Rose, icing had become after what was thought to be sudden that the now rolling vessel, creaking jolted two crew members from their bunks The Vanishing Angle of the fishing boat in its which a vessel becomes unstable and can no longer down considerably from about 40 to 45. When The those near hurricane force winds, were blasting it steadily on the starboard side. of ice they were also aiding, deceptively, By the time captain cobb had turned toward the enough that it reduced overall stability, thought to be obfuscated by those deceiving preventing the list from worsening further before prevailing winds and waves from the overloaded Now, with all forces pushing and acting towards When Dean and John had jumped was only minutes away. Overhearing that brief one of the men rushing up to the bridge yelling to responding flustered; &quot;I don't know, I don't know, to his friend in the stateroom; &quot;The boat is fast, no alarms had been sounded and the captain members scrambled. The two deckhands quickly helping each other to get them on and the All the while the vessel's angle reaching nearly Dean and John knew somewhat by instinct at this fast. Helping a couple others with their suits and quickly worsening situation. They Several of the men still inside screaming; Hyperventilating in sheer panic. John and Dean to talk calmly to each other. Determined to with their suits on, John then Dean exited the immersion suits big bulky gloves The MAYDAY call by captain Cobban was at some point amidst the chaos and panicked As the rollover continued unabated, the remaining not nearly as collected as the other two. &quot;Get Out, Get Out, Get The **** Out of There! around outside the bridge trying to find a line others climb up and out of the wheelhouse. But nearby outside was completely frozen, there At this point they both knew they were down Captain Gary Cobban, older than the others and the nearly 90-degree decking and the men could the bridge striking the opposite side of the to leave his side as his father screamed in pain. fully donned his survival suit but didn't The two friends now essentially standing on remain at least atop the vessel as it completely side, the lights went out and they clambered Now completely in darkness, ice everywhere, together. They were immediately swept off the The conditions still deadly with waves 50 to 70 knots the two became separated. Thrown frigid seas. Calling out each other's their suits floating awkwardly as they'd been The suits float on their own without them as his feet floated higher than his head Dean witnessed the Scandies Rose' final moments The Rose briefly stood vertical, bow protruding About 20 minutes passed and Dean spotted what Still calling out for John while Dean headed toward the enclosed survival raft, to be near it. He heard John call out in response climbed in and took a moment to collect themselves The life raft had done its job. This was an and float to the surface automatically upon automatic beacon already lit, it contained other this and rummaged around for whatever they could the dark, deadly weather and waves. The beacon The suits that had saved their lives thus far the quote gumby gloves to open the small The immersion suits being all one piece meant The suits were also allowing enough hampering their ability to stay warm and creating taking on water as well, the seas splashing in were on the floor weren't floating. The water, to submerge themselves to reach all the way down at any moment as well. It took about an hour but the flare gun kit. They immediately shot The lights had gone out on the raft already if the Scandies Rose EPIRB had they felt rescue should have arrived toward fire off all flares was largely for this reason, But the first hour became the second. The second men were soaking wet, frozen, feelings With repeated unsuccessful attempts to the Coast Guard sent out an urgent requesting vessels in the area keep When the Coast Guard contacted the fishing vessel the fishing boat was about 25 miles due west of closest in the vicinity. But they were unable to weather conditions. Other vessels potentially didn't even receive it since their antennas had The Coast Guard's MH-60 Jayhawk helicopter Air Station Kodiak but the Scandies Rose' The weather wasn't going to let up along their and additional complexities in flight planning the rescue helicopter and its crew to the Coast Guard Cutter Mellon was diverted the Mellon's eta roughly 20 hours though. from Elmendorf Richardson in Anchorage to aid Earlier, once inside their raft, Dean and John but decided not to risk exiting theirs and just grueling hours waiting for rescue. At roughly the thought was the light from a ship's mast over near knew there was a functioning flashlight They began signaling toward the light that which turned out to be empty. The light suddenly deckhands knew instantly it was a Coast Guard one by one into the Jayhawk. The Coast Guard crew and dry suit throughout the process. They'd low on fuel and had to cut auxiliary power to for the long ride back to Kodiak station... Dean and John were quickly brought aboard where they were treated for hypothermia, In an interview later the rescue flight commander what they got was a lot worse, it took both stating; &quot;the 170 mile, two and a half hour his career.&quot; Dean and John would recount events especially in hopes to aid in finding survivors. The ensuing search would cover a 1,400 square mile Scandies Rose final position, on the weather The Coast Guard searching tirelessly throughout and then the Cutter Mellon arrived three Searching in these conditions though, and the cutter had to stop for its own ice removal high risk search and rescue puts victim recovery the likelihood of which dwindling by the hour. captain Cobban's mayday was received by the The investigation that followed, was difficult Rose contracted a firm specializing in underwater that acts as a platform for high-tech survey would arrive at the last known coordinates Greeted by a diesel fuel sheen on the Endurance would use sonar to locate the lay 160 feet deep on its starboard, side bow weather and tidal conditions would conduct ROV providing extensive, crucial footage for out or otherwise answer several factors in the we will touch on shortly. Before the Endurance the ROV observed two survival suits inside the other victims or survival suits were found. letter of presumed death for the captain and Now, it's important to note; via thorough the policies and procedures Scandies Rose had and Coast Guard ruled out the following: Fatigue. schedule to allow rest periods. Drug and Alcohol no drug and alcohol policy. Survivors Dean Vessel Maintenance, Propulsion, Steering and Hull to have been maintained in good condition Unexpected Down Flooding. Or, waves pouring This also ruled out as a factor prior to or Any down flooding that occurred was well after the perhaps most crucially though, ruled out vessel stability preparations, So, if these weren't to blame then what happened? the need for proper research, due diligence While not perfect, that's part of what makes the people aren't perfect. No human or group of humans line for right or wrong. We're all caught in the Details, causes, blame can so easily be attributed far away from civilization, under the cover of In researching this incident, for example, and I saw commenters on videos and articles about simply dismissing them for taking drugs or with zero attempt at research. Hell, I even be used as actual research. Proper research informed decision making. The NTSB and Coast Guard was a prime example of finding what Then using those findings to possibly save the true culprit they found, while not nearly These vessels and their crews don't typically One of Cobban's fellow captains stating; Bering Sea in the winter time you're not chop ice half a dozen times or more.&quot; They However, what The Scandies Rose was subjected to, to by the national oceanic and atmospheric &quot;Williwaws&quot;. Dangerous winds that occur mainly and are influenced by local topography. They're result of air damming up on the windward slopes of the lee side that lasts only a matter of minutes. hurricane force and their onset is sudden, often These forces especially intense near the Shelikof During these conditions, entry well The vessel had actually accumulated 6 to 15 a huge amount by anyone's standards. In addition, This amount, how the pot stack was loaded, to the Scandies Rose stability calculation Guard. The crew followed these specifications These stability calculations were found to be When the Coast Guard's Marine Safety Center or characteristics, they determine how much a vessel empty pots versus full, ballast tank capacities up to and including the year 2019, the following weight of only up to 1.3 inches of ice on number of captains say they regularly exceed this The stability assessment did not accurately model volumes, the current bulwarks heights and quote; windage area&quot; possibly even utilizing older the NTSB also found the MSC had significant report versus the vessel's true capacities. This and omissions by the quote, &quot;naval architect who who had been independently completing for about 30 years.&quot; These instructions regularly their vessel for upcoming voyages. Following these To the Coast Guard and Their Marine Safety on crab pots and pot stacks especially when at the time assumed even distribution only Apply these and other updated calculations to vessels. Going forward, require owners shipmasters to complete training and demonstrate competency Require that all personnel carry manually Ideally these would be worn at all times by each registered individually to each crew member. for example, the EPIRB that failed To the National Oceanic and Atmospheric capabilities in lacking areas like Sutwik Island Bring your website for freezing spray predictions And it looks like they may have gotten a start if it weren't for the captain's MAYDAY call and John and the fate of The Scandies Rose may According to the NTSB, following the sinking of seattle partnered with one of the vessels owners tailored specifically to crab boats. As of March Two participating captains remarking one mentioning he believed the class should Correction: David *Leigh* Cobban Hey everyone thanks so much for watching. many animations and in-depth research, without to so many great supporters and a special thanks Andrew M, Jenny E, Jeremy H, Kenneth P, Don't forget; Your Safety is Crucial.