Hello good people. Small electric cars make Choosing a good small electric vehicle can be but below are some great options with plenty of the links to the products you'll find in the Meet Triggo. You can drive it like a regular Triggo can folded suspension to fit between cars. for a top speed of 56 mile per hour. The combined watt. The vehicle has a easy to swap removable The Triggo is an innovative electric moped from Poland. The Triggo is a 1+1 seater and purposes and is already capable of autonomous The Triggo has two driving modes: road mode and the vehicle expand to a width of 148 centimeters. of 86 centimeter for a turning circle of 3.5 Autonomous Reallocation system that enables to This feature enables to use the vehicles for cities in which each car can hold two any color and can be customized and can be The Microlino is a new product category weather protected mobility at a fraction electric two-seater's top speed is limited to with battery sizes 14 kilowatt-hour, which respectively. The Microlino is supplied with at almost any charging point, AC wallbox The Microlino Urban is powered by an electric 12.5 kilowatts and a maximum torque of 89 50 kilometres per hour comes up in 5 seconds 500 kg. The little electric motor will have and the load of the trunk wherever they want, Squad is World's first Solar City Car for solar powered electric quadricycle from from the Netherlands. On request, the vehicle a top speed of 90 kilometres per The small two-seater vehicle is designed to be it doesn't take much to move it around, resulting up to 31 km of range on a sunny day. The Squad two 2 kilo Watt motors in the rear wheels, packs that are easily swappable. The rear of The vehicle is available with a cargo box that Tazzari Minimax, an Italian electric vehicle and the car's compact design and energy efficiency The Minimax's small size and light weight make and its energy-efficient electric motor makes it cars. The Tazzari Minimax can be ordered which should be enough for 162 kilometres, the range figures refer to a constant speed a two-year warranty on both the vehicle and the has a front engine that produces 15 kilowatt 1.2 meters wide, and 1.6 meters high, and battery. The Minimax has a range of standard a keyless start and door opening system, However, additional features such as air the Citroen My Ami Buggy has a friendly painted in khaki with yellow highlights My Ami Buggy remains powered by a 5.4 gives the standard car a range of around 75 45 kilometers per hour and the quadricycle building on the open-air field the My Ami that is waterproof and UV treated new Smartphone holder and speaker Mount have perforated steel wheels with model specific in regular tires rather than the rugged mud field the My Ami Buggy has a rollable fabric other notable exterior Design rear bumper reinforcements wheel Arch The City Transformer CT-1 is a brand-new busy and narrow city streets. has a very cool widening and narrowing its chassis. As for speed, kilometres per hour in five seconds. The maximum is a 7.5 kilowatt electric motors. In unfolded speed of 90 kilometers per hour. To get it to be between 9-48 kilometres per hour and the shrinking the CT-1's width to just 1 meter. And easiest-parking vehicle out there, and you can configuration, with the passenger sitting behind get access to the 350 liters trunk, which is There are some nice creature comforts such and smartphone connectivity, with the whole XEV YoYo is a small all-electric two-seat car designed to be perfectly adapted the XEV YoYo will have an electric motor with 7.5 up to 22 kilowatt being available for 30 seconds the battery capacity of 10.3 kilowatt hour which range of 150 kilometer [Music] compact dimensions can park it anywhere whilst its torquey electric the Interiors of XEV YoYo recall the design compartment is designed to guarantee the dashboard features a seven inches digital and heating are included as standard and it various storage compartments the mirrors and the Rocks-e featured an electric motor pack the car maker considered that it's 75 and the battery pack could have been charged a half hours at any standard household socket a measures only 2.41 meters in length and 1.39 small at just 7.2 meters allowing easy parking size it's very light tipping the scale at just there are also practical highlights such as a of storage space in the passenger footwell there driving mode and the charge status of the battery a cup holder is located on the dashboard and another feature unique to this size of the the Nimbus One is a fully electric vehicle resulting in less pollution during manufacturing wide and 7.5 feet long making it significantly makes parking and navigating through congested you about 125 miles and this model can go up to lock and unlock your vehicle as far as safety goes stability technology standard driver airbag power windows a built-in phone charger and even furthermore software and system improvements one of the major benefits of a small vehicle like will be able to find smaller spots usually the Eli Zero is a small lightweight four-wheeled motor which is just North of 5 horsepower it's not per hour vehicle so it's not meant to blow the of 110 kilometer which means the average owner so when that time comes the battery can be topped LCD screen are way more car than golf cart the and the seats are actually quite comfortable aluminum the doors are made from a single piece of all kinds of car-like features including power parking sensors the interior is vegan leather leaders of stuff complete with air offers all the Comforts and safety you