Hey everyone, by now most of you have seen episode. And as surprising as it was to hear him what's even more surprising is how many to infest the comments section, relentlessly depressing. So where do we go from here? I debunk Terry, you've also requested that who also appeared on Rogan's show this past week. guests, and admittedly I am too. Don't worry, But because Joe and Billy talk about Terry several credulous sheep who fall for Terry's gibberish and racism at me for daring to expose his fraudulence, debunking another one of their heroes. So he spews ridiculously transparent falsehoods he just doesn't have the Hollywood resume that makes YouTube videos that are a mixture of Ancient mixed with success porn like "10 Steps to Become Tate, basically an amalgam of everything that what he's talking about in literally any academic he wants using buzzwords he's memorized but he references some "certificates" from MIT and degrees from MIT and Harvard. He didn't, these and mean absolutely nothing. Of course the people at prestigious universities are establishment so applauding these non-existent credentials from own hypocrisy. But apart from pointing out that there's not much else to talk about here, kick things off right around the two minute 'Cause these subjects, so many of these instantaneous reaction. And that instantaneous I would already know about it, it would be Yes, Joe. If any of the things that we WOULD know about them. They WOULD be taught don't just arbitrarily ignore evidence. come from one unqualified jackass who has never is a pathetic fantasy enacted by lazy podcast, in the off chance that any Billy or and I'm not holding my breath, I want you to see out of Billy's mouth. Here's Joe setting Billy Like why would they detail this, and how do with the correct amount of planets and you know it's not exact, but it's an artistic conventional explanation when people try Well the conventional explanation is always around, you know left and right to cover so they turn it into mythology so they can and this is how they expressed themselves, or how it's all fake. But in reality, it's not all fake. what religions do. They write myths. All of tell the same stories over and over again, about they just change the names. It's what humans especially in the times when we didn't know Stargate to be real, so let's hear Billy So this text literally, some of the letters incredible work, and it takes a long time to and then it becomes stone. So you know, if people they're gonna get their next meal, shelter for time to sit down and write these incredible works Where they're going to get shelter for the night? were hunter gatherers. Sumerians lived in giant huge palaces and defensive walls, they housed tens scribes who were writing cuneiform need to look That is literally their only job. They lived in Sumer was. Nobody should be listening to this first moronic statement. And yet we persist. down and also they were transcribing these quote unquote gods with a lower case g. because Billy says so. That's not at all an evidence whatsoever! The Epic of Gilgamesh was kings and heroes and adventures, just like any which holds no transcendent or has to be dictation from gods. Because reasons. Gilgamesh, the Epic of Gilgamesh for people who lot of the stories that you hear in the bible. a great flood, there's a few heroes, there's Joe said something smart! Ancient Mesopotamian Something most Christians don't know and he just totally dismantled the dumb thing that Like cuneiform. Can you read Yeah. A small amount of it, yeah. Studying it from to take stone tablets and decipher them myself. cuneiform digital library and read these stone Hitchens, you don't need anyone else. Sumerian cuneiform. Of course he never Is there controversy as far as, like are there do some people think it's interpreted Only where it comes to where Billy is admitting that there is tablets say. Yet he often pretends to have Like when you look at that, we don't No. And the language popped up out of nowhere. not a language, it's a script. But also, then how do we know what it sounded like? es gana bera kiba na biru. we can read this: Ku-Ra-Ash. The name of Cyrus. all of our information about this pronunciation but they don't even bother engaging with what they just have no idea because they've never it "popped up out of nowhere". What does that literally everything else in human history? that they were gonna write down and these these things mean a certain thing, so they had something where they're documenting it Yes, Joe. That's how symbols work. Have you seen dashes, and all agreed on what letters they about this, other than that it is very old but it doesn't mean it came from gods. sea scrolls. I haven't read it, but is there like Annunaki type characters, the Nephilim, They show up everywhere. In the dead in the ????, of course even in the Bible, they're their eyesight it says in the biblical text. mythology stole from earlier mythology, yet we characters show up, like these giants? And we are that they're just made up, even though there is the archeological or anthropological record. Also exist. This is the toddler logic they are enacting So no matter where you go in any culture you're or form engaged mankind, brought knowledge, much more wisdom and information, esoteric wisdom, So these giant god people came and gave us to stack rocks real high. No skyscrapers, no of real science like physics or chemistry or The craziest version of this story is that primates and put us here to mine gold. And then and taught us how to build things, taught time has passed that we've kind of forgot. Yes, that is pretty wacky, Joe. Especially Genetically engineered who and from what? Which Ardipithecus? Australopithecines? Any number of evolution did this profound genetic engineering species are all so remarkably similar anyway? Did so, what happened to them? If not, why couldn't were also around? This story only works on people chimpanzee gave birth to a human. It's ridiculous. why back when it was basically useless, you couldn't... you know like it didn't just because it's rare? You're barely alive. inert so it doesn't tarnish or rust and it's making coins and jewelry. It has a unique because it's rare. Come on, guys. and Anu and Enki and Enlil, these leader gods so forth, right, the boss, so these people were They were volunteers. They got tired of doing the of labor on Earth and also according to them also I can't believe we have to talk about this. years on Earth? Where is the evidence for that? for that? And it's in the text, where? Which Why is there no reference whatsoever that agrees the rest of this episode is going to go. Atra-Hasis, they go to Adam's calendar, they where that gold mine is located. I was like specifically exactly I don't know, but I know if Why? Why does an advanced civilization need need gold. What a profoundly stupid sentence. have mastered interstellar travel need some random and need us to mine it for them. It's as dumb where aliens need to kill us to take our planet's cool movie, but like most science fiction, the And then Enki says: I have an idea that will this planet, existing, not something that doesn't a slain god, so they're talking about taking and mixing it with the DNA of the hominid that ape man or anything, they don't specify in the began to do this genetic modification. making genetic modification to us. that timeline of hominin evolution, what is the some hyper advanced human-god hybrid that totally it. And the new species worked really hard, but how had they been surviving all these millions pretend to know how genetic modification To get us to take orders from them, they inserted discovered recently, that human beings have a turned off. It can be turned off in a laboratory field around your head. And when it's off, you you look inside, and when it's on, you look to get Yes, it is incredible that anyone would say there is no "worship gene". Complex human gene. That would mean that a single protein would genes can't be turned arbitrarily on or off expression is a complex biochemical process and to pretend that this could be controlled by an magnetic field coordinate the precise behavior of Bill? And wow, this super simple thing that can we demonstrate that today? Why doesn't blast the magnetic field, and watch everyone run and watch them all run back inside! Yeah, and what's interesting, they had talked briefly in that text about How did they say it? What was the... do you remember the actual quote? This part is amazing. Billy says that they used English, not Sumerian cuneiform text. Joe wants to How did they say it? They said the word fashioning. But Joe really wants to know. Do you the actual word in the Sumerian cuneiform What was the... do you remember the actual quote? Aww, he would have to look it up, because he has and is just making up all this bullshit Have you talked to Terrence Howard? Do created? That it's just things ejecting from and that there's a goldilocks zone where you are. And then as this goldilocks zone gets proficient in order to control your environment Sun in order to keep you alive. That kind of Oh it makes a lot of sense. I just talked to him a couple hours ago. about wave conjugations and everything. I left his podcast for like three days I was he so smart? Like how would you ever imagine or a movie is that smart? Like freaky smart. the comments of my Terry video who insisted and was just egging him on to coax out all of the guy who can't do basic arithmetic is freaky pooping out planets does not make sense. At Terry train to moneytown, so he proudly proclaims They were talking about wave conjugations and wonder if either of them were able to figure But his theory about the creation of Oh, it makes a lot of sense. sun all the time. And if this matter over Yeah it creates an accretion disk and disk. So once that matter... Accretion. So once you have a certain amount of mass in to create this circular, like the shape of our swirling around itself, and then as it does that that friction increases, the matter begins to on its own energy, and then it then forms a ball. it builds into a moon or a planet or whatever. disks, Billy is specifically referencing they are talking about. When a solar collapsing inwards that forms a disk. The bulk of and material at various distances towards literally describing solar system formation and just pretending that it somehow instead Joe says we see stuff fly off the sun all the composition of the stuff? Where does it go? Do we questions that any rational person would ask, and it is not enough material to form a planet, it is not the same material as what planets reality. And then they just vaguely reference dumb story they're selling. It's pathetic. Our actual scientific principles, and actual empirical anything? Why are inner planets rocky and outer moving outwards will magically morph from rocks disks we see in telescopes, do those match and doesn't that invalidate their sun poop idea? terminology they can use, like a central region, materials go into planetary formation according sun pooped out planets, wouldn't they all have would they be arranged along a singular plane, of the accretion disk the sun and the planets continue? Idiots like Billy and Terry and Joe and then blindly stab in the dark with words they delusions are 100% antithetical to real science, observation. It's just breathtaking. encounter flat earth people? I just tell them look it's not my, you know. committing to an idea. It just doesn't make sense. a religion. One guy... It's interesting. the ultimate conspiracy theory. The ultimate He didn't, he couldn't, I said did you said I stop talking. That's when I realized Yes, Joe and Billy are mocking flat earthers And they're right to do that of course, except gain any useful insight for himself. Or does he? on YouTube and listen to very charismatic people Which I do all the time. But they do it in a way that's not true. And people get sucked into it. and you even formally acknowledge that you're and you keep doing it. And you encourage millions your show is bad for human civilization. civilizations don't last when they go kooky. disasters, and wars that reshape landscapes, like now. And if we're not aware of it, it'll happen Yes, Joe. You really do seem to be startlingly poisoning the masses with ridiculous lies, we will destroy ourselves. So maybe change your about pyramids being magical power plants. in turning this giant structure into about it you go: wait a minute, whoa! I have very similar theories on how the power it used to run up close to the pyramids, and and it would create something called physiostatic crystal granite. Those ions would pour up into used to be resonating rods, but you can see the now, but the slots are still there. Then it would be amplified and some type of fusion would and then the crystal granite obelisks around electricity, and then if you had something you can capture that energy and you can transfer for any other electrical tools you need, like some of these incredible works of art. We can see they had wireless electricity way back then. It is insane, and it's not true, Joe. Let's the Nile never ran "under the pyramids". Why the river? The Nile is several miles away from the ever ran under the pyramids, nor can pyramids electricity is not a thing. Google it. Nothing trying to say piezoelectricity and fumbling it, since it has nothing to do with what he's saying, squeezing or pressing, not running water. Then he From the granite? What kind of granite? upwards through the lattice, and why? What really? Where? Even if they were there, you see was a magic electricity rod in there because does that mean? Some kind of fusion would found in the interior of the sun. You're just physically impossible at ambient temperature products of fusion are electricity now? Folks, He is taking random buzzwords from physics, and saying absolutely nothing. Anyone who can't did not have wireless electricity, you might as 'Cause you would think there would be some like something left over, some sort of a, Very good, Joe! That's absolutely true! You would whatsoever for this idiotic baseless claim. And it without a moment's thought, right? I mean they poured sand over Giza to bury Yes, they hid all the evidence for no reason more pyramids, which definitely don't exist which are not evidence of any electricity magic So the idea is that there were beings that do you believe they were having wars or were they having wars with other beings? evidence of these wars can be found in the book of and I do mean gods with an s, because everywhere it's actually a mistranslation, the actual, Arabic and then now to Aramaic and everything were fighting each other over resources Yes, the proof that a religious myth Nothing wrong with that logic. He's also inventing mistranslation. He does not speak any of these anything written in those languages, much less And you see these wars in the Mahavrata, the and these wars are just nonstop. The Indian Vedas... because wars are a thing that happened all making up any ridiculous story you want and one point in the story somebody eats a sandwich Next they jump to conspiracy theories about the moon with absolutely zero evidence. his hand is, now move to the left going see that what his hand is over right now? It these images and put them into photoshop and take pop right out. But right above that, you see Right above that. pyramids, you can see those dark shadows. pointing to that one straight line. And then Ok do you see... Ok yeah. No those are shadows. things that are in the bottom, aren't they just I think they may be highlighting something. Billy says look at these pyramid shadows. Joe says to draw attention to a feature. Billy says no, the image below, with the contrast inverted, superimposed to highlight a feature in the image. interview. Joe just watched Billy confidently debunked it in real time, and Billy just slinked soldiers on, giving him endless passes, not is just as dumb and baseless as what he just said. honest with you. Our sarcotic rhythym doesn't slightly off. It's actually better tuned to What do you mean, how does that work? the wake and sleep cycle, is actually own axis, a Mars day versus a Earth day. when Billy talks? First of all, what the hell circadian rhythm. Which is the physical, mental, over a 24 hour cycle. Which is a day on Earth. we are awake during the day and sleep at with Mars. And much, much more importantly, a question nobody is asking, he creates enormous yet we are so remarkably nearly identical to organisms sharing all the same organelles, all the same organ systems, similar behaviors, by sheer coincidence? Only a complete could say something so unbelievably stupid. our own planet after all these thousands of years? Circadian rhythm, right. again by knowing the term that Billy was looking all the time that he knows nothing about in that moment is that Billy has no clue what How do they calculate it's more tuned Well it's just they, geneticists and scientists is more tuned to Mars rotation on its axis, versus Earth being 24 hours. an explanation. Billy just repeats himself, he also invents a new unit of time: minute hours. you guys! He is literally repeating the same "geneticists figured out that" in front of it. and the more they tested it, the more they studied than we are to Earth, which is pretty strange. what kind of whack calendar do you have... If some years the month is longer, I know. Isn't there a better calendar? So Joe gives Billy a pass on the bullshit he just he has no clue what a leap year is. Astounding. days to traverse. If we pretended it was exactly with the seasons. Every fourth year we have to it's orbit at the new year. I'm confident that Children know this. Joe and Billy don't know knowledge in this and half a dozen other fields. Our Milky Way galaxy is pretty interesting exact moment called the Sagitarrius dwarf that's something totally different. We are this exact moment. People thought for all up at the night sky, seeing that swath of stars we've been wrong the whole time. This is now No, when you look at the Milky Way, it's the is a dwarf galaxy. It has about 320,000 stars. The are two very different numbers, and Billy is an to the Milky Way which is leeching stars away from million years or so until it's fully incorporated. absorption or the merging of the Sagitarrius where it merges and drops into the Milky Way Right, all of the stars being leeched from this precise position of our own solar system! A observably false since we do not see other stars moron say these things with a straight face? about the fact that our solar system Way. That we come from Sagitarrius, we're Right, our star is from another galaxy, yet it Way just like all the other stars around answer to a question nobody is asking. a habitable moon of Tiamat, a planet that was 4-6 crazy orbit, that's why Mars has this weird if you're NASA or anybody trying to rendezvous or perigee, you have to, apogee or perigee, one million miles, the other one is closer, so... of these orbits are nearly circular, with an launch windows for Mars, because sometimes the very far away from each other, so we he is pulling something completely out of his ass over the entirety of astronomical knowledge and how could it possibly suddenly magically adopt a a nearly circular orbit around the Sun, just like developed from the accretion disk around the Sun who understands basic physics. If you are going situation, you need extraordinary evidence. to ancient stories that you're distorting And then they looked at it and said wow! like this Mars wasn't originally in this type else in our solar system, which it was. lying. Joe could ask to fact check Once every 15-16 months in, how do I don't know where you're at now. Oh yeah, sin-o-dik! Sigh-no-dick. synodic confidently pretending to know how to pronounce I'm just saying that they look Well we have a lot of strange That's true. We sure do. We even have octagons and That was one of the craziest ones that Terrence Saturn? That when you look at the octagon on that they've created by using the... recreate in his cartoon on Blender, which we know you were real impressed by that, Joe. into our epigenetic memories, because we're is psychosis, and it's a war psychosis. We've been fighting and competition over collaboration. Honestly he doesn't know what genetics is or how it works. And he absolutely can't genetic concepts from molecular biology. to be drilled into people's heads. We're in these stupid arguments over stupid things when Yes, Joe. There are really important issues worse by platforming an endless string of people and make them distrust legitimate experts try bringing on guests who actually have any who can then help the public know what's It's all about money. It's all about money. It's all about money. It's all about money. The more we're able to tap into this information, in our power, look inside, go to inner space, and they discovered now, junk DNA the term junk off of it, that it really it was never junk. That's just a word to keep Ah, Billy has clearly taken a page out of the DNA. Just because we now understand the function gene expression, it doesn't mean there isn't junk pretend that all of our genome has a purpose and thus there must be a creator. It's false. no purpose. About 1-2% is protein coding, and leaving about 80% that is useless. Much less than there are promoters and enhancers and other things serves no purpose. There are even pseudogenes, Creationist propaganda spotted and dismantled. we used to have are going to start to come back with the magnetite crystals in our brains. We all and they put a guy into a laboratory, and they put and they put an EEG cap on him and a scanner, to the magnetic field. So we still have we just don't even know it, we are unaware of it. ability, then we would have that ability. And use birds, and could sense Earth's magnetic field, There's so little true understanding of like how do it, what is calling them what a very specific are they just using some sort of a magnetic field, and they're... what are they doing? organ that's allowing them to do it? or have you never lifted a finger to peruse our dumb things Billy says, why don't you google this? magnetoreception? Why do you only use Google to guests and never to actually learn something, Joe? he claims to be the master architect and what he did was he incorporated into it it's also, in my opinion it also could be thing calculates the orbits of the planets How does it do that? can I open up this and read some notes? I Yes, Billy. Open up your notes in order from the totally idiotic thing you just can calculate the orbits of the planets in heliocentrism was true? Get those notes, Bill. Circumference. be calculated by the Great Pyramid, because the So if you take the great pyramid and scale it up of the Earth and it touches the equator. angles of it would fit inside of a sphere? Earth in a pyramidal format. Mmkay? That's crazy. know that what he's saying is stupid. First of was supposed to learn this word in elementary version of what? A pyramid is not a sphere. that's true of literally any object smaller than arbitrary number he listed, and line up the base represent a sphere? He said it's a representation are not spheres. It's like saying a cat is a mean anything. Just do the best version of what he You're leaving half of the Earth empty, and the shape of the pyramid. Who says the tip would even the dimensions of the Great Pyramid. Base length of the base would be the diameter of the Earth at which should be roughly the height, and it doesn't can take any shape and arbitrarily blow it up and there's absolutely nothing special about it. you get 24,734.94 miles, which is roughly planet Earth itself. Just another dumb lie. Again, you don't even of the pyramid is contained entirely within near the CIRCUMFERENCE of the Earth. This is basic multiply that by the base perimeter", but never claim was meaningless from the get go. The only that doesn't work at all. The base perimeter multiplying it by that huge number would give a than Earth's CIRCUMFERENCE. And it gets worse. around the sun, so the great pyramid, basically it equals the speed of the Earth around the sun. an inch, and you multiply it by 10 to the 8th problems here in pretending this figure equals where did 10^8 come from? Where is that on you're glossing over? Because it sure sounds and much more importantly, this is not a Where's the unit of time, dumbass? The guy can't to make his grift sound even remotely credible. the great pyramid is located at the center the Earth, the center of land mass. mean anything. It's not at the center So the centerpoint for land mass being you take covered with water, where the ground is, and then and that's where the pyramid is. Guys, how does anything you're saying the center of? The African continent? Because Taking all the average heights of dividing that to get the average height and Getting the average height of all the peaks height of the pyramid? So you're dividing average by something if the average is what the average height of all the peaks on Eiffel tower. Mountains are several miles tall. it makes flat earthers lies about distances You can't just randomly That's the average height of all the That's right. That's right. And that's an absolute fact. with half a brain knows instantly The grand gallery, the latitude of the grand the king's chamber, the latitude are the exact No Billy, 29.98 is not the same as 2.998 x four digits do coincide. Sorry. it is completely insane. The fact that that it's not impressive. Or that it was and they did it with... how do you know? stop pretending that the pyramids are magic? Yes, structures in the ancient world. But in the end, It's just rocks. Egyptologists have a solid grasp and most importantly, thousands upon thousands being a complete mystery. And most importantly, accomplishment of the times, just bigger. It's made of some exotic material that we just razor sharp precision or pristine whole number bunch of rocks stacked real high. Why does our that ancient buildings can't be explained by so pathetic and I will never understand it. no way to say just cut this cookie cutter out and And all of them are perfect. And if you accidentally cut the wrong you can't make the... you can spend a week or two All you have to do is take one look at the not even remotely true. Granted there's been some but seeing them as they are now really drives the precision he's describing, and very clearly and the pyramids are still standing. pyramids that are wonky. Like the ones were trying to duplicate the great pyramid, do The deeper you go into antiquity the more come forward in time, the more wonky and Joe asks a perfectly reasonable question, says something immaculately stupid in response. the more it falls apart. There is absolutely no There are thousands of buildings far younger than and the younger they are, the better shape is so reliable that we make buildings that can withstand earthquakes. Joe himself completely When you go to St. Peter's basilica, you're do that, how much time did this take? This is so spectacular things I think I've ever seen in my So are the ancient pyramids the most incredible incredible, as you are currently claiming? Now when you hear the carbon dating of that? Because the radiocarbon dating I just don't believe it. Well, first of all, the way that the structure was same time frame, they don't have the same majesty, they don't have the same capability of apart but this one isn't falling apart? carbon dating gives a fairly precise age for doesn't believe it. And his justification is to because he doesn't know what it is or how it And I... you could have a shitty house today and you That's very true. cultures and different abilities, Within the same region, I'm Yeah but even in the same area, you're If you look at the subterranean shaft. totally unprepared for Joe to push no matter what dumb thing anyone says. those shafts, is you look at the way the pyramid it seems to be like an electrolysis generating Chris Dunn had the same, pretty close now why hydrogen? It's the most abundant element communicate with ET on the hydrogen frequency. Wanna expand on that? No? Ok. They want to get element in the universe? So why do they need the hydrogen frequency to communicate? nobody seem to understand what frequency absorbed or emitted? No, we use radio waves for Now those shafts, imagine on certain alignments, specific planets or stars, Orion, Aldebaran, shafts would send out this hydrogen frequency, alignments. Why? For communication purposes. devices to transmit signals in any direction that can't move. And again, sending out a But yeah, these stories are It is crazy. And it's just so strange there's still real evidence of this impact. zero evidence supporting anything this moron talking to him. That's the resistance. That's and beg you to exercise even the tiniest you the precise brand of bullshit that you Honestly, much like with the Terry episode, just not worth listening to. Apart from all Joe just goes on totally unrelated tangets, random social issues, but which have nothing to that is the theme of this episode. To speak to they both spent the better part of two hours that they are reasonable while they reject the credence to unfounded conspiracy theories. Even the James Webb telescope's discoveries. You it's, when it's practiced by humans, humans use arrogance, they don't want to be corrected, And then there's you know, a lot of great going like this is amazing, like, let's better telescope out there that maybe can see what we think about the birth of the universe. of established science, any scientific concept reasonable doubt, it must be wrong because challenges established science even if these "young scientists" he's referring they're just unqualified hacks spreading lies on mentality that Joe Rogan champions and infects mentality that so thoroughly dismantles that they end up incapable of hearing how If you can actually create a phase shift in frequency of this dimension, you can walk already maybe even shed their corporeal bodies, claims to be able to incarnate whenever Humankind is simply materialized color, make that conclusion walking down This is what Joe's show has become. The occasional guests, or at least just harmless comedians. interviews total lunatics like Terry, or grifting of these anti-establishment Ancient Aliens frauds At this point it's a proven business model. Joe keeps giving them a voice. If L. Ron Hubbard Joe 100% without a doubt would have given him the of additional victims whose lives would be ruined that Joe's show creates. There is absolutely no of Xenu and thetans, and all the bullshit that Whether or not people like Billy or Terry growing their grift to that magnitude, isn't the to try it. Because as much as his listeners whine the glorious alternative, Joe is the mainstream. mainstream media. That's a fact that Joe himself to the responsibility his position demands. remains is this. If you are someone who hears you need to work on your ability to apply like one times one equals two so all of math is humans and pyramids are magic, the more skeptical scrutinize their claims. Look at what experts and make sure they're using them properly, or that do not look at entire areas of human knowledge, and just brush them aside with zero comprehension millions of brilliant people over many centuries of knowledge that resulted in all the technology grifter who tells you a story you like. This and it's destroying society. In reality, that they're the only ones properly investigating Scientists and historians study evidence. It's extraordinary evidence for no reason. Maybe but not an entire field. Every field has thousands for a novel approach that will enable them to happen all the time. If someone or something is community across every sector, it's not because of The good news is that if you take even just an in these areas, you will quickly see how the human knowledge. If you actually possess real she said. You will actually know things about and that will enable you to identify and reject about DNA that completely violates everything who to trust. You don't need to trust anybody, don't. You won't fall for fantasies about humans our existence is already immaculately explained Actual real physical tangible evidence that is all over the world. You will stop falling for nobody is asking. You will stop throwing money and books full of lies. You will stop buying the is the wish I have for humanity, and I will never So that's it for Billy Carson, yet another How much worse can it get for this show? and when? Hopefully not too soon, but it