This is a grainy, sped up, cut up, loud and social media by a Ukrainian military brigade. a refurbished and revamped Cold War staple that of Ukraine. All three are doomed, about to be put the 79th Air Assault Brigade--a highly trained but effort. The unit deals with all three tanks that have more or less been around since World War an anti-tank mine, while this one, unclear as to some similar sort of air ordnance. Finally, what third. Up to this point, if the video were just a could be from 2024, or 1974, or 1944. These three tanks--at least by their own for the 79th, means they've landed three mobility the work's not done--should they be hauled back or at least used for parts. So the 79th needs something novel, something that's shaped something that's quickly becoming a Rather than sending troops in to finish off tanks safety of a soldier--or fire artillery or missiles military has desperately few of--the 79th now aerial vehicles. Here, a fixed-wing drone strapped to render it useless. Here, another does the same. follows the path of hiding Russian soldiers with with a grenade. Here, the same. And, when zooming the quickly moving enemies approaching first, 27-second piece later--it's again a drone, variety. And these 90 seconds serve as a Ukraine in the fight for this long and they're a Consider the context of this clip--it's shot the hotly contested Donbas region near Donetsk. been battling over this region--in particular over is now a ghost town with few structures and Russia grappled over for 20 months late 2023. And to some educated onlookers and Now, it seemed Russia would have easier access to just 10 miles or 16 kilometers west down O0510 coordinated efforts to break through, Russia's soldiers, and because: drones. In fact, most of similar manner to the earlier clip. Just 11 days ill-fated T-72s, they posted this video. And 9 drones, like Ukraine itself, are punching they've been doing so since the very first days First it seemed the Turkish-produced Bayraktar TB2 up to 27 hours, carrying a payload of up to 330 as Ukraine purchased six of the drones, for about $69 million dollars. It was worth they patrolled the Donbas region and even fired with the invasion beginning, they quickly reached fuel trains, fighting vehicles, and missile the invasion's early stages. By April, they were Ukrainian radio played--the Bayraktar song as Ukrainian resistance. The world took notice, too, story titled "The Turkish Drone That Changed Specifically, the global attention which after anchoring more defense positions more attention to and surface-to-air missiles and relatively expensive drones, effectively minor observational roles. but they didn't play to Ukraine's advantage--its the defensive combattant--nor recognized the Russia. Fighting with, and inevitably losing such But rather than pivot entirely moving away from the military-grade, million the commercial, cheap, easy-to-operate, and easy most renowned commercial quadcopter producer, no interest in its products being used, sold, or in the 21st century's most significant the country's prime minister Deny Shmyhal claimed the company's global output of Mavic quadcopters. Ukraine's strengths. For one, they just don't cost as small-area scouts, they also play to the aggressor, as any advance, build up, or really to monitor via drone while the operator mitigate Ukraine's ammunition deficiency, as a potential target miles away, a quadcopter worth the in-demand artillery shells to attack. mighty Russia's greatest fighting strength: its unrelenting monitoring of every movement, Russian numbers more quickly, which, for a fighting force plagued by organizational issues, is a big ask. supplies, drones are uniquely easy to crowdsource their hobby drones to the cause, and so too have But if the idea of repurposed quadcopters then the advent of mass-produced kamikaze Mechanically, there's a good few differences drones--some of the latter are fixed fixed camera first-person-viewing-systems, and for military purposes within the borders that these aren't capable of carrying, then On an economic scale, these make obvious sense. ramming into the weak points in downed tanks. cost of a T-72; they cost a couple million per over $200,000 each to ramp up for the standards math remains simple, as the oft-cited going rate $400. Suddenly, the playing fields of an to level. And this goes for human capital, outnumbered by orders of magnitude by Russian the fields surrounding Marinka for retreating big enough to finish off a soviet-era tank, Across what's nearing three years of innovating fundamental in Ukraine's defense. And its military website: there's soldiers, there's a helicopter, brigade's listed vacancies, they're looking to to the rest of their open positions. The brigade company to flank its more traditional tank company they need more drones, something that and something that American 501c3's have latched groups like Ukrainian Defense Support publishing American consumer's hands to Ukrainian soldiers. predictable, and the next stage after a novel is the development of countermeasures. In this simple. For example: nets. The exposed rotors up when in contact with just about anything, their tracks. So facing the new threat, Russia the front line with so-called anti-drone they've experimented with building metal cages least minimize damage from kamikaze drones--keeping But then there's the offensive option. The sorts have rather limited flight time--between signal range--often as little as a mile. While operating kamikaze drones always requires the Therefore: drone on drone warfare. Observing equally-strong drone capability, backed industry. Along the front line, operators peaking out momentarily to launch their aircraft miles away. Finding and destroying an enemy side as it has the ability to immobilize a rather than just one tank or truck or soldier. is signal jamming. Cheap commercial drones rely signal is is a rather weak radio wave broadcast to disrupt GPS navigation is broadcasting frequency. This is what GPS jamming is, and it's principles apply for essentially any other form of of different frequencies, so if Russia knows what their operator, which is fairly predictable they can simply overwhelm that frequency with signal and crash. This sort of electromagnetic cat and mouse. One side develops a signal jammer by the other side's drones, so the other side frequency, then the first side adapts their so on. The net effect is that drones have gotten a given drone successfully destroying an enemy incredible efficiency that made headlines in the But there's an obvious solution, and it's represent the first days of a new epoch developed by startup Ukrainian company Saker, is is what a computer vision algorithm believes is to destroy, while the text above indicates what, its right is an indication of the software's The short-term benefit of autonomy is countermeasure is to interrupt the signal between drone doesn't need a signal? What if the drone, identify, and strike a target. Or even: what if it itself without any authorization by an operator? wide-scale use of AI drones in Ukraine, Saker's destroyed Russian targets in autonomous mode, In practice, autonomous drones have yet to make human involvement, they're rather finicky, and conventional equivalents--but 6,000 miles in an industrial area next to an Ikea is trying to change that. Its name is Anduril. Palmer Lucky, was the pioneer behind the Oculus he grew this into a burgeoning company and at just 21-years old. During these years, others at SpaceX and Palantir. The significance of they effectively built the Anduril business-model. analytics companies each took the US government shut-out of competitive bidding for US military military-industrial complex like ULA or Raytheon. procurement system was broken, and this belief Alliance was paid to keep operating a wildly for decades, with absolutely no incentive for the government. That's because, like many military meaning they were paid whatever it cost for them percent for profit. In many ways, this actually efficient system that cost less per-launch would SpaceX wasn't getting these contracts anyways, innovation themselves, develop a more efficient process to offer space access at a lower cost, this worked, the government had effectively the same work for less, and they've now grown Anduril was formed under the same model--that of contractor. But rather than work on the fringes predictive analytics spaces, which have plenty of head-on--developing innovative products that are are offering, exclusively for the US and allied will be just too good to pass up. is artificial intelligence. They seem to in Ukraine--fundamentally, that the full potential one operator to one device equation. Just as rather than the promised generation-defining drone autonomy won't either until it's able to why Anduril's marquee product is Lattice--this This promotion video demonstrates how Lattice a combatant drone is detected by the company's deployed along the US-Mexico border as part of a Sentry then alerts an operator, who elects to solution, capable of jamming communication signals of Anvil--their kinetic interceptor drone or, put drones. Each of these devices work autonomously, by Lattice. And Anduril's has plenty more products an infrared surveillance platform, and a This is what unlocks the full potential of human operators are not. So by stringing together the drones and the operation of drones is cheap. Destruction in warfare typically follows certain but it's not very capable--it requires be destructive and capable, but it's not very expensive. A single kamikaze drone might be cheap possibly destroy a tank, but with lowering success on average, say, a tenth of a tank. are cheap, capable, and massively destructive. the need for operators in close proximity for hundreds, even thousands of drones without getting to the cost of a single advanced the cost of killing is getting scarily low. essentially every life taken in war has been human. Human judgment determines death. But soon, will decide to deploy a drone, but a drone whether a life is worth taking. So that's to human cost of killing, autonomous drones also weight of pulling the trigger that ends a life. it should feel terrible. This new era of in death. It is often the case that early that new military innovation will bring--the we fear--but there is a fear that this time might seen how militaries act when they have access multi-million dollar drones manufactured by actions by the US military have happened outside remotely-operated aircraft. Civilian casualties a blurry, near-perpetual concept--strikes happen has no active state of war. Now, we're entering on a miniaturized scale not from military the concern is twofold. First, what will non-state to kill--do with a technology that allows them anywhere, at limited risk or cost to themselves. massive swarms of drones, what will state actors is minimized to perhaps its lowest level ever. is becoming quite influential--it is the key of weapons is being built. When any technology to have an understanding of how it actually Brilliant.org. That's because one of their courses is the exact tool being used in Ukraine right and in this course Brilliant.org helps you go of the inner workings of this tech. They do intuitive principles, then teaching these through Then, as you move on, they bring these concepts subject. It really is a better way of learning, for dozens of STEM-related subjects so if an understanding of how things work, Brilliant.org subjects that are tough to learn outside the it practical, as you can progress on their courses and a given section only takes 15 minutes or say, gravitational physics just while waiting everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a or click on the link in the description. You'll and help support this channel, so thanks