Good afternoon and welcome to our The president and chief Kirk Sorensen, he's also If you had told me that I was going to I'd have laughed in your face. I'd You know, I mean, I not only I actually had negative I wanted to and wanted to And you know, sometimes be careful I did. And there was a lot of things But I think what I was hoping for rather than what NASA was back then. Originally got into space stuff because And while I was there at NASA, I learned about this technology who had actually gone to Something about molten salt reactors. I'd never heard of Thorium. I'd And I got very, very excited about it. Our company is called Flibe Energy, It's based on the Thorium fuel cycle. a fuel salt, and it's also that surrounds the fuel salt You can achieve much higher nuclear And this is based on using liquid But we believe this liquid to realizing the energy and making it possible to have an endless supply This whole idea really starts If we start at the moment of fission, And we need at least one to make its way and be absorbed And then, that atom is going to decay And that's ultimately going to decay And then that U-233 have another fission, neutrons is going to make its way And so you can keep the which is really kind of magic. My mind was completely blown, in real physics So let's talk a little bit about and in this case, it's got 141 neutrons. And altogether, that's a mass of 233. So that makes this material uranium-233. Now, if uranium's got 141 or 143 neutrons, it has a special property. That means it has the ability The uranium atom is also Uranium has four outer with other things, And when fluorine is that's why we call it The tetra means four. This kind of bonding is actually This is how fluorine You may have brushed your teeth with a similar called sodium fluoride. struck by a slow neutron, fission here, and it releases a lot of energy. but it also releases And these neutrons, They're moving so they're going to cause So we've got to This process works in the form of graphite. in the graphite, and it slows And then it's all another fission reaction. of these neutrons finds But let's follow the other neutron. Well, we want it to And if it finds its it's going to turn thorium So natural thorium and that gives an atomic it's got 142 neutrons, and that which is why we And all thorium is When it absorbs this neutron, the neutron count it's not thorium-232 anymore, And it's not going to It's actually going to in about 30 minutes, is going to turn and it's going to emit an electron. That's going to change the It's going to change the and we are now going protactinium-233. is now chemically distinct from It has a possibility to be extracted. We need this protactinium but we don't want it in the time it takes take, on average, In the meantime, we want to keep We don't want We need to take it out, using this electrolytic cell, and we would run a a little less than between the anode and the cathode, and this would cause off this sacrificial anode, protactinium is being metallic bismuths, into a fuel salt carrier, several months, for it to and by the time it does this, introduced back after it's undergone this decay process, refuel the reactor this way, so we can keep this process if we design the reactor right but really the key to is that uranium-233. it's very important, able to start the so this is really the starting But if we can do this, endless amounts of because essentially we have an endless It's a possibility to go which is using about of the energy in the uranium to almost 100% of the energy being in these molten salt reactors. a 200 : 1 advantage, we can almost completely eliminate As they say on TV: Not only can we do that, but we can potentially take we can apply them against Y'all have taken fuel cycle class, right? Y'all know what happens to Take uranium dioxide, You gotta make it a fluoride. You gotta make it into a fluoride, So first thing you gotta do is you Well, that's what these reactors run on, so the point I try to talking about using uranium fluorides, it's not strange, we do with every speck It's all been a fluoride, first it was and then went through and then we had to make or a metal, or something else. and we're not the only ones, we could take uranium could fluorinate it again, and we could make we could make a molten we've made a salt go and remove certain I mean we want to we want to go and is most of the spent fuel, the radioactivity. of the mass of the the uranium, just by existing economy. we can recycle too, we can when I was at NASA, we were because that's a fuel In fact, a spacecraft was does anybody know what Psyche! It's going to Psyche, Very good! It's in the asteroid belt. What ions are they throwing out Xenon! That's right! xenon was the only thing because it was the as it cost to launch it. but xenon was so actually worth because it was that expensive. Do you know that Xenon is the Did you know Xenon There's a shocking amount of xenon That's like the number one thing The fission reaction is and I was just amazed stable isotopes and But the problem right now is all of these fission products in a semi worthless configuration. Let me give you an analogy. How many of you got a Food, cereal, rice, sugar, beans. That goes in the fridge! I'm gonna take all this food in the big pile on my kitchen, okay, I'm gonna take my broom In a big pile, all right? what do you got? No! You have the same amount Has temperature changed? Is that useful material to you? If you got your beans and and your sugar all mixed together, All you can do at that point is you can scoop it up and throw What was valuable about your pantry Your rice was in your rice bin and That's how spent nuclear fuel Everything's mixed together. and the lanthanum strontium and the cesium, And that's what kind of makes it's the fact that Let me tell you something about molten salts. If you make spent we could then to tease out the and extract these fission And now suddenly it's like We figured out how to get All of a sudden they're Now they're useful. I found almost every single if you can get it by itself, If you can get the strontium, and you can get the lanthanum, and you can get the barium, you can get them Every single one Where they don't have value like they are right now, just like if everything was We think that that is thing to do, not only but also with the fuels because we want to be all kinds of material. to make new things, can utilize in society incredibly special values. that are used in medicines I was talking to a with a company called Zeno Power. They're getting ready to build And he was saying, if you're going to make And I said, heck yeah, that's great. Okay, wonderful. I think this is going to be a very we're going to see in And this is why I'm really hesitant When people talk about taking I almost want to go: Because I really think we're how to make that stuff very, One of the keys to that into a molten salt. we can start to do But right now, as a ceramic, to do those kinds of just the nature of When I've been up talking to some of the leadership at NNSA before, the fuel kind of getting kind of for diversion When it gets out of the plant, a fuel that attaches to something that can never be separated. Yeah they would. That is the opposite If you looked at things like TRISO, you talked about recycling our They like TRISO because they They think it is more proliferation I was just wondering if Oh, I've thought about it. The United States has got a lot We have 30 tons of surplus that in the existing arsenal. The notion that the take spent nuclear fuel I mean, it beggars imagination. We're not. We literally have a that if we want to go make bombs, We're clearly not So, I will tell people, in terms of the United States, diversion or proliferation. Nothing will be more than the pile of weapons we have sitting around So do we need to do TRISO, for us? What kind of regulation or regulatory I guess mainly containment wise? Since you're dealing with mainly gaseous Well, you know, A lot of reactors today already do BWRs... I had to study this BWRs have a pretty serious gaseous The difference is, our gaseous fission is designed to handle the entire But in principle, it's not that different I was really surprised actually, in several of the classes I took at UT already have chemistry control, they have to deal with leakers in fuel, they have to deal with fission they're not supposed to. there is a fair amount of taking place in commercial industry. More than you might suspect. they're getting better all the time, And we do have fuel and we do have to handle As far as the NRC goes, there is going on, but this advanced reactors trying to spool up more For the longest time in a bunch of guys who had going to the NRC, PWRs and BWRs, Now though, we're asking the NRC to where there are not and there's no Navy And so I think, Wes, you've got You know, I mean, this This is going to be a challenge. A step in the right direction, It's going to be something and it's going to take time. One of the things I really am movement in Congress if you're working with startups or that you're not going against that kind of learning curve, It makes a lot of sense. Our current regulatory around people with lots of money and We're talking about startups and it's real hard to pay for I think there's a question back there. One of the pros of is that you contain a and damage levels a lot better. What are your plans to mitigate in your core structural materials? There's certainly partly true but I would actually make the case that we contain in the fluoride form. bonded to most metals They're more electronegative, certain species, Cesium is volatile in oxide media, but it's absolutely rock Cesium fluoride might be So, you know, these lock down fission products There are a few like fission product gases, Solid fuel undergoes structural damage can't stand a multi-EV In the ionic bonding in a molten salt, continuously renewed. it just comes right back together I think we have an chemical containment The chemical containment fission products will be than they will be in less susceptible to We want to get it hot and and have a fission Fluorides just don't get that hot It's a great material for It doesn't contain everything, but neither does anything else. that is impervious and constantly renewing. like I said, I wish I What do you think for structural materials you're looking at from Well, that's a good question. I don't have any numbers but one of the basic of having a fuel and use the blanket essentially It's very good at absorbing neutrons and And by so doing and we think we can the reactor vessel a lot lower than In a PWR, I mean, you have and the outside of the vessel, but a lot of neutrons and a that structural material No metal really does well in neutrons. I mean, they just don't exist. Some do better than others. This is actually a huge Fusion's got 14 MEV neutrons and whatever that is, you know what kicked out of it. Fission lets you put stuff between Now, the one place a little thinner of our primary heat of akin to like the That's where you're hefty dose of gammas, is actually outside of the then you're just dealing basically with delayed neutrons at Whereas in clad, you're dealing with and thermal neutrons coming in. So, it's a much harder problem. Now, of course, we replace clad You put an assembly in, because we don't know of a material that's going to survive that kind of We certainly haven't come up with it yet, but what I'm saying in the molten salt you really, really dial particularly for the vessel, but even for the which is where you You know, radioisotopes for medical uses. Big thing is actinium-225. Is there a relationship between actinium-225 Here's your $20 bill, Wes. Thanks for asking me that question. No, thank you. That's an excellent question, Dr. Hines. Yes, there is a relationship between Uranium-233 will decay and then that in turn In fact, that's one of the only ways So by using the thorium fuel cycle we can actually of targeted alpha like actinium-225, would be suitable for fighting cancers. And it's really unique that way because while there are a few other they're just not near And it's really- So many of us have probably some materials at Oak Ridge That's one of the So where does that come from? Well it came from the The source that they milk is about half a gram And I met the guy who got that and he was pretty ticked because he had been of thorium-229 and most of the rest He literally rinsed what that's where he got the half gram So it's kind of a horrible story. But yeah, they're saving lives Think what they could have been So going back to the of the different isotopes to be what exactly is the to discriminate against what Voltage. It is the only thing you can do. Voltage. Voltage determines Yeah. There's an electromotive series You kind of go one at a time. We're going to get this one out. We're going to get this one out. I'm going to turn the It's interesting how close the They're not very A friend of mine said, It is a lot shorter list But yeah, voltage is That's how you go How are you going to account for anything I'm sure uranium-233 or a tank full of It's hot. Well, it probably looks good to It's hot on several levels. Number one, it's hot. It's like 650 degrees. Number two, it's hot. It's throwing out And number three, it's inside So it's not like a room you're The short answer is, it's really We were working on a safeguards Unfortunately, it was but we're making some really getting everything into sufficiently number one, it's not And number two, you'll And diversion is generally going to be lethal in this case in the highly emissive Didn't have time to but there is a nice And we have a report to pass that along I was wondering if there are Instrumentation Are you doing electricity generation, Second question was: Are there I&amp;C And the answer is: And unfortunately, good on I&amp;C as maybe I can only guess at But you're dealing that is both radiologically And that means a lot of potential instrumentation just is not going As we've gone back did this in the past, it's been Going, oh, wow! We ran a one slot reactor So we would definitely today want and much better insight There are also some approaches that are I know a guy and his And he goes: I can tell you everything I said, no way. He goes: Yeah. He goes: As far as your question as Dr. Hines was telling, there's a lot of different things You can work on power generation. You can work on waste remediation. You can work on isotope production. You can work on process heat generation. There are a plethora of possible I like to think of them as a And that takes them way where really we You know, we're going to Okay. Let's thank Mr. Thorium.