I would like to share with you today about The Holy Spirit wants to help you with this. There are 10 things that the Holy Spirit wants to Helper. He helps us. He wasn't sent only to be a as a guarantee that we are going to heaven. But He and these are 10 things He wants to help you you to open up your heart and prepare yourself You know we all need help, come on somebody, amen. We need help with our families. We need help with do you ever feel like sometimes, man if I could with my homework. If I can only go get some help and just help me to pay these bills. If somebody relationship with my spouse. Man, if I could only help with my ministry. Sometimes we don't have the But today I want to present to you 10 is there to help. All you got to do is ask, all is pause and say, &quot;Holy Spirit, help me in this Jesus called the Holy Spirit our Helper. Comfortor, Strengthener, the one who stands our Friend, Intercessor, Advocate. So many, pretty dive in into the 10 things the Holy Spirit the Holy Spirit wants to make you holy. He says in Thessalonians 2:13, that we experience He sets us apart, He makes us holy. Secondly, attitude in you. One of the things that I all of us struggle with is with our attitude. You can't control what happens to you, you majority of our problems don't necessarily come things we can control. Something happens, somebody doesn't just want to create your life in such a where He is standing by and says, &quot;I want to help us would of course rather have the Holy Spirit the bad people, all the negative circumstances, so Christ-like attitude. He wants to give you, help &quot;The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is relationship with the Holy Spirit, I started to than He is in my actions. I didn't say He's not more in our attitude. attitude is how I react. how I respond. Your life is really going to be you react to things makes a very big difference, &quot;I want to help you to react, respond. I want to reacting negatively but responding godly.&quot; That's that. Sometimes He's going to help you to keep just be kind when you feel like not being kind. feel naturally to be nice when things are you rely on Him. That's why these attitudes not called the works of your discipline, are the fruit of the Spirit. Are you involved in decisions? 100 percent, but the Holy Spirit is the I was yesterday going, my sister-in-law asked us them on some truck, of some person that came city. And we were just supposed to be there because I was meeting after the stream with our and I was like, &quot;Hey, let's go with me. You'll fasting, so physically I'm not like, let's go go and help with those mats because I'm like, know that I gotta help my sister-in-law. So we the guy that's going to come to pick up those mats he's going to be about 20 to maybe 25 minutes I don't have time for this. I'm just meeting with gotta run,&quot; and there's this like frustration that the house and at that moment I said, &quot;Holy Spirit, wait because one of the fruits, attitudes of the like frustration. You see the fruit of the Spirit frustrating. I do not like when people come late. But the Holy Spirit helps us with that. I Truck came, loaded the mats, and they were heavy, and our youth pastor, and you know and I left and &quot;Hey, I'm so grateful that you came. I know that going on.&quot; And you know I showed up, that was my action, it was the attitude, because I could have snappy. You know very just kind of on the edge but the Holy Spirit is there to help me with my you are destroying your life because of your from your altitude. You can go higher but your wants to help you with your attitude? The Holy don't bark but you speak to people. You don't gentleness and self-control in your attitude. why it's gonna happen supernaturally, Come on, we all need that help right? We all need your attitude, drop that hand emoji, hand up emoji of the areas I lean on the Holy Spirit so much way, and there is my preferences, there's things preferences and the things that I like, you know when we are angry and frustrated, we sin, and so And so the tendency is to &quot;Oh no, I'm gonna try you. I think that we have to surrender more. So I'm just gonna work on my attitude. I've tried so many times. My approach has changed since I met one of the things He's working on, I'm like, why And it's not that I am taking the back seat and when the frustration builds and there's a build up sometimes it could be a little bit longer. and I just reach for that hand of the In fact, let's drop this in the chat. Holy Spirit, emotions, they seem to kind of subside. You helps you to control your tongue because that's expression because you know you could have mad, throwing things, slamming the door. Or your and you know you're obvious that the a few more seconds, few more seconds and the peace sleeping in the storm. You're like Jesus, you're being controlled and being manipulated of character. And then you're looking back that. That's not my natural disposition, that's Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit, meaning He He offered it to me. So throughout your day just you see you're about to lose it, you see you're is building up, when you see you're about to go The third thing the Holy Spirit wants to help He wants to strengthen that inner person. See we Many Christians, their problem, our problem we become soulish Christians. Soulish Christians They rely on their mind. They don't live out inner man. And one of the reasons why we don't dictate our decisions and our direction is And so we have our soul do most of the living our spirit man is not strengthened, our soul is decisions, and we become what the Bible calls and we fall into carnality very fast. Ephesians riches of His glory, to make you be strengthened See you shouldn't be living in your soul, you his soul. Many times he would say, &quot;Soul why are Come on, praise the Lord.&quot; So the spirit of a man can be strengthened. Now guess who is the He doesn't necessarily want to strengthen He wants to guide our emotions but the Holy your inner man. Why? Because if your inner man you can last. You can do a lot of things realizing in my young walk with the Lord and the more He begins to trust me and the Responsibilities, ministry responsibilities they can really take a toll on your life. So when my load. Lord take away these burdens. Lord, take God, I don't want to be responsible for my insurance. God, I don't want to grow up. I want I was a teenager, I wanted to grow up and then time that I had to pay for my phone, first time a property when I was younger at the age of 20, happened there and you know the bathroom flooded &quot;Why are you calling me? Call my dad.&quot; You know now I have to take responsibility, and I was like, me. Being an adult is deceptive. It's hard. It's group. I was a youth pastor, it wasn't growing, started to grow. And I realized, oh this is so kid likes this kid, then this person, they slept then this person doesn't like me, and this person there's. I was like, &quot;Oh man, I don't want to be a the desert, and have no responsibilities, have Or, &quot;God, please take this away. I don't But then as I started to study the Scriptures, I because if He takes away the weight, He takes away He takes away maturity, and I started to see strength, strengthening with might.&quot; And then praying, &quot;God, take away the pressure, take away take away my responsibilities. God, take away all be overwhelmed.&quot; My prayer changed, and I started me for the assignment that I have.&quot; So I'm not from stress. I'm talking about good stress responsibility, leading your family, leading the from that. I'm running to my secret place, to add me strength because the calling is equal to His strength. So when I don't but when He adds strength to me, and guess what Not because I'm brilliant, smart, educated and inner man. So how does the Holy Spirit want to bigger than you, responsibilities you are facing your a single mom. Odds are against you. You In fact you feel like God has given you more than is relying on you to rely on the Holy Spirit. He because He will never give you more than He can in the chat. God will always give you more than more than what He can handle. That means the help you, to strengthen you in the inner man. one income. Strengthen you to lead your ministry your wife and your children, when as a man, you model. Your dad was never there. Strengthen you your business is exploding and you're like, &quot;I've I'm overwhelmed. I am just tired.&quot; Strengthen difficult time. Economy, people you know are &quot;Man, what do I do? I feel overwhelmed. I don't always need a lighter load. Sometimes you Are you ready for this. Sometimes we don't need doesn't just take away the load, He renews our your inner man, that will match to the weight, the leading in your life. Come on somebody. God will He will never give you more than what Holy Spirit your own, this is what's going to happen. responsibilities, you're going to be quitting &quot;I can't do this, I can do this, I can't do this.&quot; through Christ who strengthens me, the Spirit Holy Spirit helps me personally a lot is helps me and He helps me to increase my strength when I And honestly, I feel that every week. I feel that week. Without the Holy Spirit, I can't do that. is heavy. The load of just being an adult is right now. We're not even talking about demonic many people quit. Mid-age crisis, and people themselves with alcohol because a lot of people they live out of overwhelmness. And in order to overwhelmed but not to live out of that place, &quot;Holy Spirit, what needs to change? Have I put strength?&quot; And usually you will see Holy Spirit more peace, more courage. And then you'll walk Number four thing that the Holy Spirit wants to Holy Spirit wants to lead you. Romans 8:14, &quot;For sons of God.&quot; He wants to lead you. Drop this He wants to lead you. That means sometimes or even increasing your strength. Sometimes What you were doing maybe was great but For example, your fishing all night, cannot catch goal is to know where to fish, go into the deep. So Holy Spirit can guide you and that's what only gives me strength when I am weak to match my reactions, with my attitudes. He makes me holy but You wake up during the sleep, you get this vision I need to tweak this and then you tweak it, you to change the approach, the way we do our customer You know I need to do something different in my spouse and see where this goes, and we need we don't want to over spiritualize every single Holy Spirit to lead us. Sometimes it's not about about changing our approach. How do we change He gives us impressions. He gives us pictures. leadings that we experience. Sometimes it could and gives you a sense of peace, sense of and it's almost like you know you didn't come up not even something you're thinking about, it just attention to those things because that is how the you through a prophetic word from somebody, or about something and you're listening, listening that made a change for you. So I pay attention if the Holy Spirit is my guide, He will guide me. He does not drive people. He leads people. Drop He leads. He doesn't drive people, He leads. We we drive cars. Driving means you force an object you are guiding slowly and giving that being to Holy Spirit leads us. That means we are involved like if you are on the road and you have somebody car, right. You're driving your car but they're further, but they're following you, and that's how doesn't drive us into depression. He doesn't drive feel like in my generation people are driven. driven by ambition, driven by dreams. Holy We are Spirit led. Don't live a driven life, life. Pastors listen to me, leaders listen to me, Therefore when you are led by the Spirit He where you don't experience &quot;I can't do this He helps you to get through. You want to find a lead you instead of your ambitions to drive you. if this is helping somebody that the Holy Spirit go to number five. The Holy Spirit wants to teach Number five, the Holy Spirit wants to teach you. when He guides you, He will guide you into all but whatever He hears, He will speak, and He All of us have a Bible. I believe all of us are day to invite the Holy Spirit into our devotionals important to read commentaries. It's important but what's more important is to When He will teach you, it doesn't mean He It just means He quickens, He makes the Word come When you read it, the author is present You have to, almost sometimes it's best before Holy Spirit quicken that word. If you read the Bible without the help of the With the help of the Holy Spirit that rice gets letter of the law, the letter without the Holy Spirit comes to help, it becomes the rhema word. that you get some weird insights that contradict not the teaching of the Holy Spirit, that's just is He gives you life. That word gets quickened. that information, which eventually ends up being So as you read the information of God's Word, the of God's Word to you, and that revelation leads to transformation in your circumstances. That's the thing the Holy Spirit wants to help you today &quot;It was revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he Christ.&quot; We see in Acts 20:23 that Holy Spirit tribulations await Paul. So we see this happening, future. Sometimes it can come in the form of It can come in the form of an image, and sometimes And sometimes it can come in the form of a desire, through sanctified imagination He gives you this in your life. And sometimes it's just a clear And so when the Holy Spirit became more real a relationship with him, and I talk about this in and how you can happen. And I believe that by to you. You will go even further. But one of the pastor, it was, I couldn't explain it at first, filled with young people. Now mind you, it's like three rows field, and it's only on one side. seeing the future, and I would close my eyes. I paint this image of what's about to happen. It point, even as I'm speaking I feel the goosebumps. it's what's going to happen, and it's almost my eyes, of course I see the sanctuary empty. years after that, exactly the vision, this image, people, they planned their future. They're different. I'm talking about collaborating Holy Spirit where are you taking us? Where are in my future? And He begins to paint that image. I filled like an oval, like that kind of stadium was seeing flashes of it during worship. I'm stadiums or preaching, and I'm seeing this flashes get this like insight right away, like this sense in the church. So when I went to the Philippines, of that audience that I was seeing the flashes of Spirit's vision, glimpses. They were not about our church is going to be one day. And there is that I can't say right now on this livestream, but But Holy Spirit tells us the future. I When we started to sow nine years and I remember in prayer, I felt the Holy this large sacrifice is going to be your monthly's that's going to come in as that.&quot; At the time I'm like that's not, that's not possible. How's the angel and said, &quot;How can I have a baby when &quot;The Holy Spirit will come upon you.&quot; And &quot;Because you're obedient, because you're walking what I'm going to do.&quot; Again, I'm sharing my the Spirit in regards to revealing of my future. the future and He loves to give us glimpses of sanctified imagination, prophetic words and as I love to keep a journal and I write those things point of reference. Kind of like building your that most of the things that I'm sharing with Less with how you can minister to other people but Holy Spirit. The seventh thing the Holy Spirit He wants to help you worship. Yes, in Philippians Jesus also said that God expects people to worship Spirit but in Philippians 3:3 it says we worship Holy Spirit, we don't worship the Holy Spirit, Spirit helps us with worship, to worship God, attention to Himself. He puts all the attention on filled and Christ centered, because some people Holy Spirit in the way that the Bible doesn't give came on this earth and they wanted to make Him them. He didn't let them make Him into a king. this earth His assignment was to die. Not to rule but not in the physical. One day He will rule and a physical king? Yes, and He left them. I think Spirit. They don't recognize Holy Spirit's help draw people to Christ. He is not on this earth to Son and the Holy Spirit? Yes, but His assignment the Son. You are drawn to Jesus. His goal is to So as you're developing intimacy with the Holy always remain Christ centered. This is what Spirit centered, we are Spirit-filled and we We are the bride of Christ as Christians, and so to worship Christ, we got to worship God and the kind of brought some clarity so that we don't go and draw all the attention on the Spirit, when of your attention on the Son, on Jesus, amen. the Holy Spirit baptizes us into Christ, the Bible glorifies Jesus. The Holy Spirit draws all the in the spirit. Rejoice in Christ Jesus and have because we can fall into some other things that Jesus into a physical King, and He just quietly when we don't worship Christ, when we don't Jesus. Number eight. What the Holy Spirit wants He wants to comfort you. It's actually one of His it says that, &quot;And the church walked in the fear Who does He comfort? He comfort those afflict those who are too comfortable. Drop those who are afflicted, and sometimes He can He comforts us, when we are grieving, when we when you're going through the valley of the the Bible says, &quot;For You are with me and therefore comfort of the Holy Spirit. Comfort that doesn't register with your mind but it's in your the comfort of the Holy Spirit. Now this is what when things are hard and difficult, you and When we are hurting and suffering, some people in alcohol, some people seek to find comfort in like gambling, like video games. They're pretty You as a Christian have a Comforter. You can without side effects, without addictions The Holy Spirit is my Comforter. Drop this comforts fail. Let me say that again. Drop when all comforts fail. When I say comforter, or sex. I mean the Holy Spirit is our Comforter. fail. Where we barely make it through financially. Where we feel like we're walking on a thin ice and we have a Comforter who comforts us drop this in the chat. We have a Comforter, the fail. Now I'm ready for number nine. He not only wants to give you comfort, He also power of course is for ministry. This power This power is not to make you powerful. this in the chat. The power of the Holy it's to make us useful in our purpose. people that can do what only God can do, in our that I want to share with you is the Holy 2 Corinthians 13:14. &quot;The grace of the and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you He wants to have communion. I will go even as far Imagine having a relationship with Jesus, had. Do you know that in the spirit you can You can talk to Him. He wants to talk to you. He that you're never alone again in your life. Jesus has grace to offer to us according and the Spirit gives us the fellowship, and It fills our life with meaning, purpose, love and you. He wants to be your friend. He wants to be with you. Tongues are good, gifts are the Holy Spirit, and He wants to share Himself Now you may say, &quot;Well I'm not special.&quot; None &quot;Nothing is unique about me.&quot; So It's not something you deserve any more Love is something you deserve. We don't deserve nor do we deserve the fellowship of That's why that verse ends with, be with you,&quot; and then it adds this thing. Thank you included, you included. The Holy Spirit The fellowship of the Holy Spirit is not Drop this in the chat. The fellowship of the Holy My desire through this stream and my desire help everyone, bring the cookies on the lower as a younger person always feeling that I did the Holy Spirit you know waste His time on me? and you know I'm Vlad. I know myself. I know things I need to improve. I know myself.&quot; And the grace of Jesus because without His grace I'm myself from the love of God you know because Holy Spirit or the communion of the Holy Spirit, I'm not holy enough, I'm not dedicated enough, I don't pray enough, I don't read the Bible, and it's that works mentality that could come in and disqualify myself because of my good works, You know I'm not enough and this, later part of &quot;the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you me and He's saying, &quot;What if you will embrace the same way you embrace grace? The same way doesn't say fellowship with the Spirit. It's says offer that to you.&quot; I said, &quot;Lord but,&quot; you know prayer prompted me and He said, do you think the Do you think He's not aware of your potential to about yourself? He is and He still chooses to and He is gonna help you. So embrace the Holy Him in. Don't shut yourself off, and say, &quot;No, no, is good, I want to go to heaven. Love is good, and then the fellowship, yeah that's for those not for me. I'm a single mom. I'm a stay-home mom. problems, and that's just not for me. Like Holy not holy. I'm not good enough. And plus you know changes the world, so He's not going to waste to God. Jesus died for you and no matter what contribution to the kingdom and to this world, He wants to be with you, chooses to dwell with How do you have a relationship with the Holy wants to have a relationship with you, more than yourself up to that because it's in the Bible. amen. Somebody drop amen in the chat Amen. That's how Paul finished at Corinthians and Amen. Now let's pray for people today. In I know last month's live stream we prayed for But today what I would like to pray for some of you will be watching this I want to pray that the Holy Spirit will become Jesus, will reveal to you and that you will That you will live Christ-centered, Spirit-filled to come upon you right now and become more real to Holy Spirit. That's my desire and that's going to and if you are able to, you're not driving. I Father, I thank You right now for giving us Your You also gave us Your Holy Spirit. Father, I thank That the Holy Spirit came because Jesus &quot;I will ask the Father and He will send you the promise of the Father. I ask You right now for for those people who maybe feel unworthy, for The Holy Spirit You sent to help us so we're not strength, not relying on the arm of the flesh but precious Jesus, would You reveal Your Spirit to and listening on the podcast. Lord, would You would You break the strongholds of Would you break away maybe traditional fire, force or some kind of an impersonal force of Jesus let the traditional teaching that is that we will rely on You. Lord, I break the words that nobody's gonna help us, we're alone. That it for ourselves, and we have developed this life it spills into our walk with You, where we got Holy Spirit, I invite You right now. Holy I ask You, would You help us with our attitude. the future. Would You teach us when we read Your into the right path. Holy Spirit, I for witness to fulfill our assignment. Holy in our inner man so that our strength will match Holy Spirit, we say good morning to You. be our Comforter. We apologize, we repent for cheap comforts that come with a very high price lean on You, rely on You. Especially during this Would you reveal Your word to us. Would You help the Father. Would you help us to live our life amen amen. Come on, drop that amen in the appreciate each and every one of you for joining ask you if you've enjoyed this stream today, I want to invite you to consider partnering with be also available free of charge in Spanish, in our books for free, as well as we have courses, to do that because of your contribution. Reading literally millions of people every month just able to do because of your contribution. So thank on your heart to increase your partnership, it We are raising our quality of videos, even what sense that this next season the Lord wants me to grow the the platform. My goal is to grow then God will take care of the platform but it pastor of a local church, as well as a husband and will be in Tennessee and so it takes a lot of possible, and so the reason why I'm able to do mainly because of the team. And that is possible and sowing. If the Lord puts on your heart to do much appreciated or become a reoccurring partner. going to pastorvlad.org/partner. It's the best way there you can change your giving. You can set up in contact with you, and then every quarter a special meeting. You can also give through mail. Whichever way is most convenient to you thank you for fasting with us, praying with in Jesus Christ. I meet you guys all throughout My life has been impacted and changed.&quot; And that that I'm doing it. I'm not doing this for myself. me from the beginning. He said, &quot;Don't do this to you to build my people.&quot; So that's, if I could or my ministry strategy, is not to use people to people. That's why we're doing fasting. That's have courses. That's why I have books. All of that ministers for God. So thank you for sowing and supporting by watching, participating and also make sure that you do that. You will be able to for example, we send a reminder for this fast. and pieces of what we talked about, and then every send an email with short encouragements. I promise or abuse it, but to use it respectfully