Hello, Health Champions. I really hope you was speechless when I came across this list about either very or somewhat healthy. So, Omega-3s: 86% 81% of people thought they were healthy. 42%. 32% of people thought hydrogenated fats 21%. For some of these, it's pretty clear-cut; it's going to depend. It's going to depend on the and what type. What is actually an omega-3? it. Polyunsaturated: it depends. Monounsaturated: there's nothing good about it. And with The first lie I want to set straight is the that you're fat because your intake exceeds your this part is actually true. The part where people and thinking that is the same thing, that if you get fat. And the reason they think fat makes you calories per gram versus four calories for protein about calories in and calories out, I just have And what's that, you ask? Well, here's a bomb use to burn things and then measure heat as a they put a little thing in here, they set fire water get. So, it's kind of like in your car if you're combusting gasoline inside a closed exchange. So, if you looked yourself in the mirror you could be a bomb calorimeter, and then it's calories. That's probably the only variable that like this, if you looked more like a human, then you make energy differently. You make them with and you don't have enzymes and co-actors and process molecules with certain shapes and certain it into energy, not as heat. You make something than you need, right in this moment, which we a few hours after, then there is a hormone called and storing it away. And some of it, it stores carbohydrate because we have very limited room to and that's called lipogenesis. And insulin is a fat and storing it. So, it promotes lipogenesis, prevents breaking down. So when we have high previously, we have less access to it. It's not if we're metabolically healthy, then insulin can retrieve it. But if we are insulin-resistant, now insulin is high to store it, but then it stays chronically high levels of insulin and insulin So therefore, insulin and insulin resistance that if you are overweight, you overeat, but the you were gluttonous and slothful and had poor that unbalanced your system and created insulin continue overeating. So, the trick is to bring first of all, we have to understand what types of explanation, we could say that carbs would create it would be like a 100. If we have protein, say that it would be like teens. And when we so we're talking an arrow that much, and basically. So, the fallacy that fat makes you fat to break down and store energy. So, carbohydrate and insulin resistance, and that's what we need One of the most popular oils recently and 42% of people thought that that was a and olive oil has a lot of monounsaturated, but and some polyunsaturated. So, if we look at be monounsaturated, 15% though is still saturated, to compare this olive oil to two other things, and Beef actually has 42% M unsaturated fat in it, and we hear all the time that we should eat were all the same. Well, soybean oil, which is by only has 23% monounsaturated fats. It has 15% if we look at this now, we see that beef is with a relatively high monounsaturated and very to olive oil. Now, think about this for a second. that people around the Mediterranean, like CED and and they have very little heart disease. In the in the US, we eat about 35 to 40 liters of soybean olive oil, and we have tons of heart disease opposite. They have about 30 to 35 liters of olive hearing that polyunsaturated fats are so good for we do eat should be polyunsaturated, that it's Have you ever wondered why fats are solid or and I'm going to give you a little bit of detail, and it's super interesting because it's their different properties. So, a saturated and most fats are going to have 16 to 18 carbons space and give you better detail. At the end, we just call that X because it's not important. And And when we have hydrogens all the way around, is saturated with hydrogens. There is no more room different molecules. It can bind four ways, and It's saturated. So, this makes it straight, but because they take equal space symmetrically, and we end up with a straight molecule. Straight going to move less, and that makes the fat because it's full of hydrogen. It doesn't to react with anything else. It can't change that makes saturated fats very nonreactive. That They don't oxidize very easily, and you can keep And then we have monounsaturated fatty we start with a portion of a straight chain, 16 to 18 carbons. On the straight part, we're but then there's a place that's different. we're going to have a double bond instead and carbon can only bind four ways, and now it's have room for one more hydrogen on each carbon. they're unopposed by anything on the other side, going to be allowed to take more room, and we get because of this kink, it's going to not pack as oil is liquid at room temperature. But if you you can see that olive oil starting to harden this molecule doesn't pack as tightly together because you can keep it on the counter for And the next one is going to be polyunsaturated. of it's going to be straight, but now we have to have more places that have room for hydrogen. is on one side of the molecule only. And again, in so there's going to be more hydrogens. but I'm just showing you this to keep it and the molecule is going to pack less tightly. the more unsaturated it is, the more liquid it be liquid in the refrigerator, and some of these, they're going to be liquid even in the freezer. fats, the polyunsaturated, is that now, they are so many places that are unsaturated, so many then they're going to be very prone to react need refrigeration, especially if there's some ones. And if you have something like cod liver fridge or even in the freezer because it's you could open it, keep it in the freezer, And then there's something called trans fat that even though we had 30% of people thought it was liquid oil. We start with a carbon chain, 16 to that creates trans fats is to turn a liquid into a This chain is already going to have some hydrogens bombard this. They shoot additional hydrogen on hydrogens are going to end up on opposite sides. remain. That's called partially hydrogenated. says partially hydrogenated, then you know you're the hydrogens end up on opposite sides, that's be on the same side, and it would be like OIC acid But here, the whole purpose was to take a liquid it, so it turns straight. And now, we have a plant And these pack together, and we have made it's solid, we have made it more shelf-stable. processed foods because they're dirt cheap, And the main thing to understand about this on the planet until humans started making it. That it doesn't fit inside living beings. And I 50 years of research to figure that out. If it's a chances are overwhelmingly high that it will cause our bodies. And sure enough, this oil, turned into fats everyone should use it, of course, until fat liver, that it caused increased inflammation, But then, there is one type of trans fat that's acid. Now, the thing is, though, that it doesn't are on different number carbons, if it's on number And those fats are actually super healthy. So, and they have done studies where when they use it does the opposite of the man-made trans it promotes fat burning, it reduces inflammation. so that you understand that it makes all the number carbon. If we move it from 11 to it has a different function. And it, like a puzzle And now that you have those basics, I need to here are the fatty acids that we talked it's monounsaturated. If it has more than one, at we have the X, the fatty acid, and the terminal carbons, and we start counting from the other end. in olive oil, now we have the double bond on the sixth carbon. And you guessed it, if we have an And now, it gets really interesting when we Omega-3s. So, 42% of people thought that and 86% thought omega-3s were very about in the same context as if they I found this on PubMed, and they say that omega-3 are essential... and they went on to talk about helping people with depression and anxiety, and that they say Omega-3s, polyunsaturated, such polyunsaturated are the same thing, and we're So let's clarify this with an example, and we'll is healthy. It's the most sold and consumed oil fatty acids, and there are two kinds of acid that's 50% of that oil, and then there is which is 7%. But in the quote we just talked the active components; that's like the end result 86% of people believe that's healthy. And they very good. They're very beneficial for the body essential fatty acids are in soybean oil? Now, even though there is exactly zero of these acid can theoretically be turned into EPA and poor to start with; it's only a few percent and the conversion is further reduced by inflammation, and stress, and so forth. So, in and the percentage that can turn into EPA is So, now we go back to this statement that looks like the PUFA, the polyunsaturated fatty but now we see that they create an association, polyunsaturated fatty acids because EPA and none in there. Instead, what we're getting too much. Even though this Omega-6 is actually we need tiny, tiny, tiny amounts, and this ratio the body best balances inflammation, and it's it's just that when they're way out of balance, and we tend to promote more inflammation. And with 1, whereas if you eat things like grass-fed beef So, polyunsaturated just means more than the ALA has three; the EPA has five. So, EPA means five, and DHA, docosahexaenoic, the more convoluted, the more bent they and this is why cod liver oil and fish oil will the fish were pretty clever to figure that out they don't want to stiffen up just because they to have the very, very liquid fats, and that's So, what's so great about EPA and DHA? Well, Both EPA and DHA are very prevalent in our in your body, and the cell membrane is called a and EPA and DHA make up a good component, and properties, especially in the nervous system. EPA acts as precursors for signaling molecules, has where they measure something called C-reactive in the body, and by taking EPA, you can lower this found that EPA works better than DHA for this, cardiovascular health and general inflammation, And EPA has also been shown to help the immune if you have some of these things and you'd like cod liver oil is great, another one would office. It's a pretty concentrated version and I'll put a link down below if you like. Then there's DHA, docosahexaenoic, that's and it is critical for brain development. Your quantities. So, keep in mind the brain is one quarter is DHA only. That little thing, this just some milligrams, a couple of hundred, much of the brain. And there's an even higher those photo-sensing molecules, receptor sensors, So, this is why they talk so much about DHA have enough DHA, then the nervous system and raw materials to develop properly. And DHA so for people with anxiety, depression, panic the brain isn't working properly. The brain that's gone a little dim. And if you provide the then it's going to work better and be able to to reduce cognitive decline, so dementia, people And for this particular application, the DHA has So, that's where EPA is considered the of considered the brain support. DHA is the skin has cell membranes just like every EPA and DHA, are very prevalent there. So, if or if you have a kid with hyperactivity, then to any other medication or pills or anything like And the one that I use the most in the clinic, is called Tuna Omega. I'll put a link down Most fish oil is the other way around, So, EPA and DHA are very specific examples of for all polyunsaturated acids is that they they're just waiting to interact with something when they do, they produce free radicals that when you have a rancid polyunsaturated because they're so reactive, they go rancid very they're going to start stinking really, really and you don't get it on ice right away, it's and it's because these polyunsaturated fatty acids But then you might wonder, if they smell polyunsaturated fatty acids, like soybean why don't they stink? And it's because they them. And after they heat them under pressure solvents to extract every little bit of fat out of they get degummed, and deodorized. So, these telling us to eat, the soybean, the corn, so they have basically nothing in common So, even though EPA and DHA are very beneficial acid, it does not mean that other polyunsaturated turn into energy because they've gone through But how much do we then need of the good stuff, the general recommendation is that if you you need about 1,100 to 1,600 milligrams and 1,600 for men. And then they say that we of EPA and DHA. So, that really means that we the conversion is so poor that we only get and the DHA ever. A lot of people who work in than just avoiding deficiencies, they feel that we of the EPA and DHA. And the 1,000 is if you're and there's a good chance that you're converting if you're working to reverse some problem, then Now, you probably heard that you get you can go and buy like a two-pack of huge and they say that I have 1,200 milligrams of and sometimes they don't even tell you how much where you had only 240 mg of EPA, 120 of pill of a fish oil capsule because it's not very you just a little bit bigger capsule, or maybe to four times as much of the good stuff that to have more EPA than DHA. If you're looking the T Omega, would have in three capsules, but you get a whole 450 of DHA. And it's not just The body tends to process them differently, so if you want to look for something that has So, when are Omega-3s good or bad? Well, if then they're great. If you get them then that's good. Just keep in mind that the for in terms of EPA and DHA. And even though if they're not kept cool, they will go then they go rancid much faster, And polyunsaturated fatty acids, again, nuts and seeds would be a great source, flaxseed you don't convert all that well, if that's what plant oils that we're told to consume there's nothing good in there. And if most of then you tend to get an excess, which puts you Monounsaturated fatty acids, the best source, olive oil. If you can get it organic, that's a light olive oil because some people want to use like this extra virgin is too strong in flavor. to understand is then they have been filtered; and they have most likely processed it harder. it's cold-pressed, and there is no heat added, Whereas when they process it more, now it's some heat and more pressure, so it's not going and it's not going to have the same nutrients, it's not going to be nearly as bad as other oils, it's going to be ahead of that. Just keep in The same thing with avocado oil, if it's going to be excellent; it's going to be very strong in flavor, it's going to be an intense almost all of the avocado oil they sell is be the cold-pressed extra virgin, and it's going it's going to be light years better than in mind that if you're looking for the purest And again, surprise to most people, is that beef fats. Chicken also a good source, not as much and the only question is going to be, how big difference between a mass-produced chicken Saturated fatty acids, like coconut oil, grass-fed and organic, excellent source. Meat just like before, it's going to depend full of hormones and pesticides? How did the to determine the quality of the food. Eggs the quality of how they were raised, but also fairly common allergies. So, notice how you feel So, is there anything bad about saturated fat? as long as you eat quality food. Saturated there's always the exception, and if you by measuring LDL particle size and count, dramatically on saturated fat and not so much you want to measure this and understand it and small percentage, it becomes a problem, especially then you don't want a very large number of people can have very large numbers and still So, the most important thing to understand when their purpose in the body, and number one is to two is to provide energy, in this moment and what we're looking for is called EPA and DHA. cell membranes and that act as precursors, and we for energy; we need about one to three grams a And no matter how many times you're told to eat fatty acids, that's not the way that you you want to burn it primarily from stable to be monounsaturated fats, saturated fats, and a in beef, we have 40 to 45% monounsaturated fatty 40 to 45% saturated fatty acid, pasteur, which for energy. The fat that you eat is not the fat And beef also has about 4% polyunsaturated fatty the conjugated linoleic acid, that's So, this is the fat composition of a cow, grass or supposed to only eat grass, which that breaks down the grass into glucose, and then it's not from eating saturated fats. And very comparison that humans have a very, very similar 30 to 40% saturated fats, and I couldn't find but it's probably going to be a we don't get this fat on the body cow didn't. It's just the most efficient, And if you think about it, if saturated well, now you're eating fat off your body, fat. Is that bad for you? No, of course not; best forms of fat for energy that you should fats. They're stable, they're safe, they don't So, the polyunsaturated fats that you should be EPA and DHA, which is not 99%, should be the naturally occurring fine if they're in their natural form If you enjoyed this video, you're going to health by understanding how the body really and turn on all the notifications, so