-Human trafficking. The trade of humans for the purpose and other heinous exploitation. Traffickers may use violence, of financial stability to lure victims Human trafficking causing many cases to go unknown but trafficking and can take place in cities, Estimates have found are currently enslaved or 79% of those detected being women This year there has been a 40% in the US compared to last year. Many attribute this increase as more people, especially children, with people they may not know. My name is Anthony Padilla and today with human trafficking survivors to live through such a harrowing Were there trafficking survivors of this shocking experience or do they live every day by the maniacally evil experience of another human being? [music] -Hello, Rebecca. -Hi, how are you? [music] -Shandra. -Yes. Hi. [music] -Terry. -Hello Anthony? [music] -Thank you so much for coming on here of surviving human trafficking. -I am honored to be here [chuckles] -Would you consider yourself Just somebody -How we'd like to frame it is we go from a victim to a survivor -We refer to people who have survived and are now giving back, -I was a victim, I survived, -You are a thriver. Thriver and a leader. [laughter] -I don't want to kind -How old were you and do you remember the events -About 18 when I met my trafficker. I was a single, young mom trying and I met a young man who I thought had all the answers Everything was about us as a family and my dreams and seemed I thought, &quot;Man, I've met the one. I've met the one. Finally, Unfortunately, the definition of human trafficking fraud, or coercion. He lied about his age, He dated me for six months pretending -Six months convincing you romantic relationship? -They are looking for and then they'll become that -When I was 15-years-old, I wasn't prepared flight, and freeze kicked in. Because I didn't kick him, I didn't injure him, I considered it was my fault. I think, psychologically, because right after that marijuana, alcohol and whatever else on at the time to dissociate. I started to take I started going to the streets where I knew there was a lot I met a guy, this guy seemed very gentle that could save me. -I was 24-years-old. In 1998 political turbulence happened We want reformation of the government I was a labor right activist I got attention of the government, -You were fighting -If I use all my money to protest, and my daughter will not go to school I decided to go to America. I flew to JFK with the promise they will pay me $5,000 a month but the fact many people line with the same destination, I was exchanged with money. -You were sold then at that moment? -He got a bunch of money and then he took me the same experience, At that day I was exchanged but I didn't know -He told me his job because all of his bands and Las Vegas of the world, so I believed him. We moved into the apartment and he said, &quot;Get dressed up, I'm going to show you out He looped the car around and there was on the right side there's no lights, and he put the car in park and said, &quot;I spent a lot of money We're going to need Well, That's an escort service, and I'm going to need you I said, &quot;Escort sounds That's when he slapped me and he said, and you're going to get my money I complied, I complied out of fear. I thought, &quot;You know what? and things will get better tomorrow.&quot; The lady has me give her my ID and she hands me some paperwork and I kind of am stopping &quot;It just says that you won't solicit, I was like, &quot;Oh, see, I can trust him.&quot; That was it, I signed up, and the phone I just remember starting to cry &quot;How did I get here?&quot; I was a good kid from a good home, I was accepted into university. Like when did suddenly get so pushed has tricked me into-- I just felt so used and now I don't know and I'm 19 and I've been hit Now I know right that things I started feeling really, not just hopeless, I'm so embarrassed, to people that I've crossed these lines or I wouldn't do. I know I can remember feeling like, Go back to being in poverty lonely and sad, alone, unwanted, You feel sometimes stuck or going back to what you hated, and not knowing When you don't know you just hope that tomorrow -Three or four months being with this guy He would say meaning go get some more cocaine because he always had a lot In the meantime,- [knock] -someone would knock and they would come in and say, to come back with some drugs. Do you mind if I sit here?&quot; out on the table and says, &quot; &quot;Well no I don't have any money and I'm not going to do so I'll just wait.&quot; He goes, he'll be back in a minute.&quot; I did the cocaine that was there made me do favors What I hadn't known was that they had paid Then the trauma that lives and pretty soon we're stuck. -You were addicted to this drug, for the drug, that you were signing up it just happening. but I ended up doing some things because of being in life -He drove about five he rang the bell, I knew mama-san -Did you know at that point? -I didn't know what is that but I knew this is something wrong In a few hours, I was end up My trafficker told me, &quot;You have to pay I was trapped in captivity. -How did you earn money -One sex buyer will deduct $100 Every day, morning to night time, I was sitting in the living room drug on the table, and without clothes. They played with a quarter, if I don't make a quarter for $2,000, According to get that quarter, with life and with other girls, because of hungry. -Before we learn more of surviving human trafficking. -I can remember rushing my daughter and saying, &quot;Don't come out I could hear him like screaming and there's like blood on the floor -I was leading this movement two storeys building bathroom. -I just want to take a moment that I've linked some resources down about human trafficking and stay tuned we're going to learn that could alert you If you want to watch more episodes with some incredibly I'll go ahead and throw up I spent a day and survivors of police brutality. Now, back to learning of surviving human trafficking. Can you explain how long this went on and your thought process -In nearly six years and sold I've had two of them brand me like -Literally branded. -[?] in five places, hospitalized I've been to jail a lot. Ended up getting strung out on drugs By the end, I was in a home with three other women It becomes this very where then you also become bonded where now you're like, but I can't leave her, -You almost don't want unless you could save everyone. -One time I can remember him saying- I was really sick and I had a really bad fever and throwing up and I would say, &quot;Collins, I need to come home, He'd say, &quot;If you come home, to swinging hangers, bitch.&quot; And hang the phone up on me. -As if he had just picked up -Those two words and I knew I wouldn't know where to look and so you push it down I just didn't know It felt like no matter what escape I got all the way home You're just living in this tornado it's like playing Russian roulette every time you knock on the door, you don't know or some crazy dude. Just like living -How did you eventually -It was the night before Easter &quot;We have nowhere to go tonight. I am so sick of this life.&quot; I fell asleep I was getting my kids and drop it off at their house what was going to happen after that. I pushed it out the door, because they watched me, I fell asleep for God's sake, I had 11 bench warrants I was going to be doing some time. At the same time, &quot;I think you're pregnant.&quot; They did a test, a pregnancy test, Then I decided, &quot;You know what? -The bigger event that led to me finally escaping the boy that was in the home. He was 15, it was his son, he came in just started beating him and I can remember rushing and shutting the door and saying don't come out until I come I could hear him screaming and there's like blood on the floor At that point, I called home and I said- I told my aunt what had happened, at a domestic violence shelter and she said, &quot;That's going to happen I said, &quot;No, he loves her, She said, &quot;Because she's seven When she talks back that will happen to your daughter.&quot; I couldn't risk it the first opportunity I called my mom on her credit card because I didn't-- you don't have any money My mom of course said, &quot;Yes.&quot; That's it, my plan was I'm just going get on food stamps, 28 years old I got a criminal record gotten all these prostitution-related Like what do you do? You're right back of being a single mom in poverty Now, huge gap in job, PTSD, like an extreme amount from all the trauma It's just a lot-- -I tried to escape for many times. One time I was in Connecticut they took me to different states. -You were never in one spot long to even be able to find you or for you to communicate -When I was in Connecticut I just make a connection my clothes, just to jump out and I couldn't get there I knew how to survive. -You were connecting every piece to try to drop yourself down -I couldn't get to the ground I realized it was in the wood, dark, &quot;I am trapped.&quot; -You actually secured this thing out and then you climb down that you're just in the middle and you couldn't run anywhere. Then you climbed -Some girls holding that. -Oh, it was like a team effort then. -Yes, we tried to escape all of us escaped but they took me back I said, &quot;This an opportunity and my trafficker slept, I sneaked out to the bathroom and I saw a little window. I went to the kitchen, knife, I couldn't find it -To unscrew the window? -Thank God, it was open. -When it opened what was your feeling to maybe finally escape? -The girls behind me at that time. I was leading this movement -How high was it you think? -Two storey building bathroom. -You had to take that risk. -I will make it. In the name of the Father and of the Holy Spirit, Amen, I jump. -Did you hurt yourself -No pain, no nothing I ended smoothly but the 12 years old girl [laughter] -She just jumped on you. -It was painful. -Without warning just like oh, -I wave my hand, -Then you had to wave up and say I'll rescue you. -I was crying Anthony, I have my freedom outside. When I see that window you cannot imagine and I was outside and I knew exactly Then we went to law enforcement, nobody helped us. -You were just left there to fend and figure out how to earn some kind Then you at the same time are seeking justice for the girls and you promised them -I really experienced There was a man he was a US Navy. Now for an officer, he sat next to me and I told him and he said, &quot;I will help you, Anthony, I didn't know what was noon. -You don't know what the noon meant -I didn't know what was noon. He told me, &quot;Okay, are you ready?&quot; he spoke to the officer The law enforcement took me because of I have all the notes so snipper, undercover oh, of law enforcement surrounded I said, &quot;This is the place, -You were there -I saw it like in the movie it was amazing I was crying loud when the girl out only All they were without clothes. -Were these the same girls that you promised -Some, yes, some of them are not make a hole asks me to identify who are they &quot;It was Johnny Wong.&quot; I say this and this. -Wow. Do you know what that caused for him? -I testified, they were convicted -You. found yourself in one that anyone could find themselves in, in a foreign country You sought justice were able to bring these people that are part to justice as well. -It's not easy -Has this network of people with trafficking you been -Not in this life. -Nothing legally? -None of my traffickers in trouble for trafficking. -One thing that I was angry that bought my body, actually I have all the information. When people bought my body, &quot;What is your name?&quot; -You had all of their names? -I gave to law enforcement -These people that were in charge but none of the people that actually took advantage of you and used you received -The most abusive people not only traffickers but sex buyers. -How has your life changed -We have scar because of experience in the hand It gave me a scar- -Absolutely. I visit the psychiatric therapist regularly because I need help. -I'm sure that at any moment -Yes. That's so true &quot;Oh, they might be a victim.&quot; Or myself, I have to be careful. -What do you think about adapting back to normalcy -For me, it became my own kind &quot;Why did I leave and is there a power That first year, I can remember where I just got mad at God &quot;This sucks too man. Living in this hopelessness and this government-subsidized crappy I don't want this either.&quot; I felt like I had this piercing It wasn't this audible like, -[laughs] Right. -It was this piercing through my hopelessness like a knife. I can remember having this thought, of time that you gave the enemy, I can't actually undo of being exploited to do to my mental health, empowerment or lack thereof. In that moment I remember &quot;All right, I have to give this new life I have to. I have to give them -It's not just about escaping it's about this long recovery I feel like you were so powerful as much time to recover as much time -You hear stories about other people with their lives we all know lots of people about on television I think, you know what? If other people have figured -What do you think from experiencing what you did? -Prevention through education -It needs to be discussed openly -Yes. Also, we as people who know, Human trafficking is hidden. You cannot see -Moonchild wants to know was that you wish -The whole job situation that I wish I would Frequent trips out of town, job that no one can visit, fueling hypersexuality often like, Or, &quot;You should get up there.&quot; All these things your boundaries little -Do you think there's any one type for being trafficked? -One of the things, Anthony, and do trainings and I'm going to look everyone Those people that give me I'm not going to mess with them. The people that look away or don't give me eye contact Chances are they have If you're coming from a broken home, all kinds of ways that people but the most vulnerable people that have pre-existing conditions. Like I said, multiple personality disorders, came from a foster care system, were sexually abused Those are the folks They're going to look outside they're going to look outside they're going to try because the younger you are, -Has your experience being that you raise your own kids. -Oh, absolutely. You may be surprised &quot;You've made me afraid I'm like, &quot;I think it's normal when you're on your way.&quot; -Yes, you got to stab someone -I'm a lot more aware and alert behavior targets just because of the work I'm in, but I think I'm a lot more relaxed I want my daughter to go date people, I just want her to be smart. I can remember recently she was-- she had said she was going out &quot;Oh what's their name? She's like, &quot;Mom, I know you're going Then it's that funny time &quot;Oh, nice to meet you,&quot; and I know your mom's name's Karen, [laughter] -You went full investigatory -Yes, all the time. -Yes, sometimes [laughter] -Yes, you experienced first hand. -Especially to my daughter, Where did you go [?] Then, &quot;Mom, I'm okay I'm an adult.&quot; -It is a little bit over the top you experienced firsthand, -Yes, my children knew that, &quot;I'm so proud of you mama,&quot; It is just amazing -Why do you think it's so difficult just how common -I guess if you haven't been in the life, of oppression, marginalized folks, When you live in your bubble -When you have privilege, that some people will go to have safety, to have shelter, and some peace of mind, and the situations that you can find -If we would rewind all this to when I was 14 years old I would say, &quot;Anthony, None of those things will ever happen I will never go through any of that.&quot; -If you could say something who is thinking that they may be part of a trafficking situation is there anything -If anyone is forcing you to do it doesn't just have to feel of human trafficking. If anyone is forcing you a buddy, a landlord, a drug dealer that you feel really and you're feeling pressured, There are tons of advocates that want to support you, get your dreams intimidating you or pressuring you. You can always call which is 1888- 37-37-888. -It's gradual and it can happen most in your life, the person that you could never or taking advantage -Right. -All right you got five seconds or promote anything you want -Www.mentariusa.org -Go buy my book. In Pursuit of Love on Amazon, download the audible it's going to give you a lot on how you can get involved -Check out our website, get some education to help other people -The most important thing to Anthony Padilla link -[laughs] Thank you. Thank you so much Rebecca of human trafficking -Thanks so much for having me on to raise real awareness, you can use it for anything -After spending the day trafficking survivors, I've come to understand for one to not only go and life-altering event but to also advocate about it in order to protect millions who may fall into similar situations. See you later bright guys. -Press a like. [music] -I will go to America. I will eat pizza hot, I will get a dollar. -[laughs] McDonald's, baby, America. -I might meet Whitney Houston. [laughter] -You thought you might meet Whitney Houston here.