(gentle music) October 3rd, 2024. The seasons are finally changing here, and it's my birthday month, as well as launch month I've been really focused lately. During work hours, I'm focused on preparing for the launch. After work hours, I've been focused on my health goals. In the past couple of months, I've started cooking a lot more at home. It began by getting inspired from the cooking class I did in Singapore, then wanting to recreate some Then, I began saving more and and cooking new dishes It's actually fun and creative for me, and I feel like I've gotten and understanding what goes with what. (gentle music) (rice cooker clinking) (container clicking) (rice rustling) (lid thudding) (barley rustling) Lately, I've also been and prioritizing more protein in my diet, which is something I never Remember how I shared that I in my first diary entry? I'm still going strong, and I've been adding strength training at home throughout the week. I'm on a journey to get stronger and build more muscle in my body, partly for my own health and confidence, but also because I'm in my thirties now, and I've learned that as you So you should do your best to build them up while you're young. Yep, I'm at that stage to build healthy lifestyle habits for your actual long-term I feel like in your twenties, you're motivated by and you have some wiggle room for unhealthy eating or habits. Now, I'm more and more conscious of those little choices I make each day. Whereas in my early twenties, I prioritized career over health, now, my values have shifted, and I prioritize my health and wellbeing over everything else. I need to let my body I need to make time for movement. I need to make sure I'm nourishing and a variety of nutrients. I personally aim to live Of course, I can't erase all stress from my life, and sometimes a little stress is good for me. It can be motivating, but I am done putting my mind and body through so much pressure that it burns out and gives up. I'm done wrecking my mental, I've been following my energy, and learning what affects my energy, what time of day I have the and take action, and what times I need to go Life has been a process and staying aware and in tune with what makes me feel my best. Sometimes that is a journey and persistence. When I get into a phase, I can go deep and aim to learn whatever I can about a topic. I've been in a health and fitness phase recently, and spend my evenings watching or asking ChatGPT any and I've learned so much, hence the changes I've and exercise habits. (gentle music) (sponge scrubbing) (water trickling) (dish clinking) (footsteps rustling) (gentle music) At this point, I'd like to take a quick moment to thank BetterHelp for sponsoring this video. As I've been working on around food and exercise, I've realized that lasting change isn't just Our mindset plays a huge role as well. Therapy has been such an essential tool in helping me understand the limiting beliefs that held me back. Whether it's getting to the understanding why change feels so hard, or uncovering why we therapy helps you break and create lasting positive change. BetterHelp makes it easy to connect with a licensed therapist who can guide you through helping you address the that can prevent you from achieving your goals. You just fill out a questionnaire, and then you'll be matched with a therapist in as little as a couple days. If your first therapist doesn't you can easily switch until you find someone If you're struggling and think you'd benefit click the link in the description or go to BetterHelp.com/aileen, and get 10% off your first month of therapy. All right, back to my diary. (gentle music) When making a change in your lifestyle, often the beginning is hard, but if you keep going, then eventually momentum picks up, and then it becomes easier. Just as it takes a lot of but after some pushing, it will pick up momentum, and keep rolling on its own. Of course, continuous effort but once it's in motion, it feels easier to just give it a little kick to keep it going. I notice and have experienced with change. One, most people get demotivated at how hard the beginning is, and so they revert back to their old habits because it's easier and more comfortable. They give up too soon So many people try to start, then stop, then start again, unable to get past that hard zone. Eventually, it feels so hard because why even try? Number two, some people break through and succeed at reaching the and then change starts to happen. Then, they feel satisfied Maybe because they've reached their goal, or maybe because they wanna take a break for whatever reason. But stopping too long and forgetting that it takes continued effort to keep the ball rolling will eventually lead them to reverse and revert back to their old ways, or a place of feeling stuck. This applies to a fitness to building a business, learning, or nurturing a fulfilling relationship. True lasting change comes It becomes a lifestyle and You don't just reach your goal You don't just graduate You don't just get married and stop working on your relationship. (gentle music) Your life is a garden that and tend to. The different aspects of your or plants in your garden. They each need different things. Some are lower maintenance It also depends on where Maybe it's important for you to water your emotional wellbeing. Maybe it's more important for Maybe you're particular and keeping it neat and organized. Maybe you're okay leaving that part a mess because you're so focused Everything in our lives and nurturing requires continued effort, your time, energy, and focus. Your most precious resources, actually. How will you choose to use them? If you don't water an area, it will start to wither. So life is about knowing your priorities and choosing which areas to focus your time and energy on nurturing. To not feel overwhelmed at all, note that how we nurture our lives doesn't have to stay constant forever. Sure, some areas are super important, so you always wanna tend to them, areas like your health and whatever matters most to you. For other areas, there may be some flexibility. This past summer, as I was traveling a lot and meeting new people, I was nurturing my need for adventure and social connection while pausing focus from and that's okay. Last year, I was in a season on my home renovation, designing and working on my new home. A couple years before, I had devoted a lot of that You can't do it all at once because we don't have all But you can do it in seasons, and over time, your life will change. So decide the important your baseline of tending to your garden. Then, decide what you need most right now. What area of your life craves tending to, and would make you feel much better if you focused on it now? What season are you in? Where are you focusing your energy on now? Good boy. Come here. Touch. Good boy. Let's weave, weave, weave. Ready? Weave. Good boy. Weave. Good boy. Go to your bed. Okay, take it. Good boy. So today, I came back to my old room. Here I am at my Mom's house 'cause I needed to pick up some clothes and things for a wedding next week. Thought I would vlog. Maybe there's some nostalgia here. You guys recognize this room? (soft whimsical music) We have option one. Option two. I kinda like option one. (soft whimsical music) Okay, nobody asked for this, but I'll share some posing tips. 'Cause I was just in the mirror trying to figure out how to pose in this dress, and something just clicked. Like, when you're posing, instead of like, 'cause people don't usually know what to do with their hands, right? You can see I'm very awkward with my hands. Sometimes you're like millennial pose. Don't know what else to do. So I realized two things to keep in mind. Instead of straight, always whether it's like a little bend, or like a big bend. I mean, that's like if you wanna be more like, I don't know, fashion, but just a little bend is good. I think it looks good, instead of same angle, but like varying, right? Just varying. And then you'll notice I'm 'cause you don't want your Things look good with some curves, right? So like curve this here, curve this elbow up, or the shoulder up. Curve this here. Stick a leg out. A lot of people, like, stick a leg out in front. Kind of makes your legs But I always do this. Like, when I'm in a group photo, like, I always stick one leg out, so I was trying to figure out what else can I do? Another tip. So I said bend the elbows, whether it's a gentle relax your wrists, okay. Like, whatever your hands Because if your hands look Like, even if you bend your elbows, but your hands are like straight, it doesn't look good. So you're here, relax them, and gently place them on your body. I'm also more confident in the mirror. Like, right now, I don't really see what I look like, but when I'm in front of a mirror, I was like, oh, that looks good. Oh, that looks good. And then when I don't have a mirror and there's like a camera, I'm like, okay, what do I look like? I don't exactly know what looks good. So that's why I like practice in front of a mirror, and then if it looks good, memorize it. Okay, I really like this pose. Picture. Another tip is if you know then just angle your face slightly. But there are so many ways you can, like, just like the positioning of your chin, whether it's like down this way, this way, up a little bit, like, it just makes a difference. So literally just like and see what angle you like best. I mean, maybe because I'm in this dress, obviously, there's other poses out there. If you have like a different outfit that's more like cool, edgy. But today, I'm going for like Okay, so. Oh, oh, another thing is like if you have a hand here. I don't know if this is useful at all, but chin here, chin here. So like, traditionally, this is like very stiff. You can do it if you want, Soften it, give it some Give it some relaxed hands. Not like this. It's basically like dancing. Like, there's, I don't know. I think because I have some dance experience, I realize, oh, a pose is just like a picture of like a cute dance move. So, like, there's a move I'm like, okay, okay, okay, okay. Your hands can't be too Kind of close, close enough. Unless you're doing like this kind of stuff. But instead of like a straight, bend and gentle. Ugh, let me know if you have your own tips. I'm practicing soft hands. This is for closeups. You gotta use your hands as props, you know? Especially if you're wearing like cute jewelry. But it does look better than emptiness, right? You gotta have something. Also, no, I'm not engaged. If you guys see rings, no, I'm not. These are just rings I bought for myself because I wanted to feel opulent. If anyone knows astrology, I'm a Gemini rising. So anyone out there who's a Gemini rising, Jupiter is in our first house, and Jupiter is the planet of expansion, abundance, and growth, and ever since Jupiter came into my sign, I just felt the need to like express myself in abundant way. Like, I just started shopping for more jewelry. I was like, ooh, I need to like step up my style a little bit. Because your first house your appearance, how people see And so, I don't know, I just, my style has been like This is Ilchibuko. - Hi. (gentle piano music) - Left to right. It's okay. Movement can come out. Example can be squeezing, stretching. (gentle piano music) (Ilchibuko humming) Let it all flow. Let it all flow. (Ilchibuko humming) Let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go. Let it go, let it go, let it go, let it go. Let it go, let it go, (Ilchibuko humming) Good. (hands thudding) (Ilchibuko groaning) (hands thudding) Tap your solar plexus. There you go. Ask this question. What's underneath here? (gentle piano music) What is inside here? Expect it to be here. (gentle piano music) Break it. (gentle piano music) Do it. (gentle piano music) - Deep inside, I feel sadness. (gentle piano music) With this love, I let you go. (gentle piano music) - I wish to forgive myself. - I wish to forgive myself. (Ilchibuko laughing) Every time, my whole leg is numb. - Oh, wow. - 'Cause it happens when I do healings. Like, it's very numb. I can't walk right now. - Oh, really? It's not because of the way I'm sitting. I always sit like this, - Oh, that's great. - You know? Or like fingers can like - Oh, really? - Oh, okay. - Sometimes my mouth too will do this. - Yes, yes. - Lately, it's... - And that's good. But this is good. This is all the things- - That you keep inside, that's, like, especially your parents, like that, we release this way, so the feet. - The lighter part, like, current condition then goes to here. (gentle piano music) It is good. Thank you so much. (Aileen laughing) That was so great. A gentle reminder that change is possible. It's always possible. We have all the resources available to us to help us make that change. It's just a matter of believing in yourself, believing you can do it, believing it's possible for you, and then persevering long enough and then it becomes easier. From there, it still requires some but it won't feel as Repeat this effort for that crave change, one area at a time, and eventually you'll have That's how you create lasting change. It's a long game though. So remember, be patient and persevere. You got this. There you go. All right, my loves. Tell me what area of your life craves change, and what are you focused Please share it in the I love reading your comments. Thank you so much for watching, and please subscribe to this We make videos on personal and there's a lot for everyone. If you'd like to watch more of the series, you can check out the Diary of Becoming series as well as in the description down below. Lastly, we'll be launching the 2025 Artist of Life Workbook This is our bestselling guided and achieve goals, nurture your relationship with yourself, and make 2025 your best year yet. Check it out at shop.lavendaire.com. All right, sending you so much love, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. (bright music)