[chiptune and guitars intro] Greetings, and welcome to another Minty episode of Veronica I'm Veronica, and today I'd like to chat about &quot;flagship&quot; Ubuntu-based edition and the &quot;alternative&quot; say, &quot;LMDE&quot;. I've been using both versions off and on for me some recent perspective on the Linux I think I'm ready to chat about these two Now, before I get into the specifics- please note If you're watching this in the not-too-distant-future, up-to-date. I'll be doing some head-to-head comparisons in the near future. That said, I'm going to try and cover this And full disclosure- this video isn't sponsored Mint team. Like most of my videos, the only folks funding Thanks, by the way! With that out of the way, here's a recap of The traditional &quot;Linux Mint&quot; experience is time I'm making this video. But unlike Ubuntu, Linux Mint ships with the Flatpak instead, as well as traditional application In contrast, the &quot;Linux Mint Debian Edition&quot; 12 as of recording. Like the flagship version, LMDE ships with So, if you want something in the apt family Mint family deserves to be on your radar. If you care about Wayland vs X11 as a windowing some plans to start Wayland experiments in It'll likely be a while before it's fully The look-and-feel of both flagship Mint as environment, a desktop born from an early themselves from GNOME due to disagreements. [pause for snark] In this case, over a decade ago, the Mint that's perhaps a bit more familiar to folks Granted, it's not as flexible as a tiling you, that's fine. Mint has always been on my short list of distributions pretty great experience, both on the surface In fact, I used Mint every day for about a That was about 4-5 years ago, mind you, but Nowadays, I'm a tiling-and-stacking person, *end-quote* - whatever that means in the roaring But you might feel different, and that's OK! Besides, unlike Windows 11, which is pretty [music: funky beats made from Windows error sounds] Mint *is* customizable to a degree where almost Anyway, the Linux Mint team says they started continue to deliver the same user experience Now, is that likely? Probably not. But, as a project, I think it's a great thing advantageous to do so. Ubuntu's ever-increasing focus on Snap packages And while I'm not going to litigate that here, I certainly think it makes sense for the Mint team to consider for better or worse, when making their plans. Plus, one neat thing about the Debian edition is great for older hardware. Anyway, if you want me to cover more about make sure to let me know in the comments. Maybe I'll try installing Linux Mint on one Not &quot;old&quot; by any means, the laptop I made this modest Dell Latitude 5490 from 2019. This is certainly no gaming laptop, which For my testing, I swapped back and forth between version and the other one with the Debian version. Then, I just used both of them for a few weeks, And, side note to laptop manufacturers- now we have ejectable NVMe slots on laptops, just Anyway, installing each of them was straight forward. They do appear to use different installers though, I did some research trying to figure this out, and I wasn't able to figure out *why* they use different installers. So if you happen to know, make sure to leave me a comment. The Ubuntu version prompts you to install the Debian version gives you a prompt after But personally, I think that's a pretty minor difference. As of a few weeks ago when I captured this 5.15, whereas the Debian Edition was on kernel This makes sense given where we are in the than Ubuntu 22.04. This also means that at the moment, it isn't up-to-date packages from Debian 12. Lutris and Steam are both a bit ahead, as Package &quot;newness&quot; is hardly a &quot;gotcha&quot; for In a few months, Ubuntu 24.04 will be released, eventually pick up those changes in new releases. Even now, at the time I'm recording this talking even be released by the time you're watching this So barring some radical change, in the reasonably Ubuntu edition will almost certainly have the Debian edition. But after that, *Debian* will release a new So again, the package differences alone aren't Now, as far as Mint's very popular Cinnamon during my weeks testing Mint. You might be interested to know that pure the current version appears to be a couple of This also gets to a broader point- calling The Cinnamon desktop environment is a Linux the Mint team absolutely makes sense. If Cinnamon is your jam, using Linux Mint Particularly since the Mint team will be getting Cinnamon some other distributions to get it. Anyway, this laptop might not be capable of I was able to get StarCraft Remastered installed but that's not terribly surprising. On the Steam side, I had great luck getting which played great on both the Ubuntu and I did try Chex Quest, which was frankly awful on both As was Sonic via &quot;Sega Super Collection&quot; on Steam, Sonic did play great via Retroarch on Lutris And don't worry, I dumped this ROM myself. Oh, want to know how? Well I'll show you in a future video! This is far from an exhaustive comparison The direct comparison is really only a small Now, to get my bias out there- I'm a Debian Pop!_OS. I've been using Linux since about 2005, bopping Debian based, Arch based, RPM based- I've both personally and professionally. I currently run Debian Sid on my editing desktop, servers as well as my everyday working laptop. You might think I'm predisposed to saying a great choice. And you'd be right! If you last tried a Debian-based distro some I've gotta say: it's worth trying the ecosystem again. A lot has changed with Debian 12. Most folks I know don't want to spend night want to start their computer, and just do computer Since Debian 12 was released and the non-free Debian experience has been exceptionally smooth LMDE 6 is the same great experience- it just works. From upstream, it gains the advantantages and that means a lot of the problems running If you want a no-nonsense computing platform, Particularly if you enjoy the defaults provided I mean, if you're going to be skinning your Debian start with LMDE and be done with it? You'd get the benefits of Mint's up-to-date all that much. Now, if you want the benefits of a more frequent you have two perfectly reasonable choices. One would be the Linux Mint Ubuntu Edition, their toe in the Linux waters. You can also use backports and LMDE to start Backports, of course, could be a future video Shoot me a comment if that's something you want to see. All that said- if you want a cutting-edge may not be the choice for you, Debian or otherwise. But come on. You knew that already. Linux Mint isn't the choice I'd recommend That isn't me by any stretch of the imagination, reflect that. Linux Mint's Ubuntu Edition is a somewhat-happy Mint Debian Edition, and a rolling release Releasing point releases every six months your thing. That said: those point releases are still means they're skipping the semi-annual Ubuntu Which for me begs a question: &quot;why relegate the Debian edition to an 'alternative' I mean, don't get me wrong- it's not like version. I'm sure there are specific uses where it's use the Ubuntu-specific repos myself personally. And as long as &quot;de-snappifying&quot; Ubuntu isn't no reason why they shouldn't keep offering I guess I just think that LMDE 6 is so good, Ubuntu edition. I mean, if there's some reason LMDE deserves to be an don't think they've articulated it. One obvious reason to consider the Debian edition as on par If you don't know, Flatpak is a method of with a lot of developers, allowing sandboxed independent of the underlying release cycle. Basically, from an end user perspective: nowadays you a light-to-modest tradeoff in efficiency. It's far from perfect, but it's much better than it On Mint, Flatpak, and its central repository- both Ubuntu Mint and LMDE, and provides even Even at the expense of a little extra room between basing your distro on Debian vs Ubuntu Debian is really an awesome base for folks who want And I like not having to update every day- it time to spend on getting work done. It's not that Ubuntu can't be that thing, something to keep in mind when choosing a Now, I'd be curious to see Mint's take on MATE I have to admit, I'm not totally sure what right now. Maybe you know, and I'm sure you're about to leave What other distros do you want me to compare? Make sure to let me know, because I'd love Maybe next I should compare Linux Mint Debian One of the things I love about Linux is how tools like Linux Mint out of many other sources, at large. And that's because Linux is awesome. And so are you. It's time once again for &quot;what I'm watching&quot;, which I think you'd enjoy. Today, I'm sharing Lon.tv's great video Lon goes into a bit about how PeerTube works, the - shall we say - lesser tendencies of YouTube. Now, my videos are always available on PeerTube- There, my videos are available ad free and You can even comment and follow from a Mastodon feature. And as always, I couldn't do this without If you want to help me keep making more videos, I don't have big sponsors like some channels like you, and the folks that you're seeing on the screen here. To those of you who support the channel financially- And to everyone else out there, thank you so much for watching. [child shouting] &quot;1, 2, 3, 4!&quot; [sounding far away] &quot;Of course they did.&quot; &quot;Gurr-eatings!&quot; &quot;Anyway, this laptop might not be capable&quot; [pausing] &quot;...I don't need to back up so far.&quot; &quot;as was Sonic the Sega!&quot; If any of you out there are still watching, say &quot;LED overload!&quot; in the comments!