- [Narrator] If you and spent a lot of your of the internet, there is a good chance that you remember this iconic sound and visual. &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Seems like a basic flash animation, but quite a number of people were talking about it at the time. And there's a chance you who clicked on this, wondering what all the fuss was about. Why does something so useless exist? And then it hits you like a train. Now, there are more windows popping up displaying the same animation, And you can't press the because the windows are And when you do catch one, You try using Alt+F4 in control queue, but that doesn't shut down your browser, it just creates even Before you know it, there are dozens if not hundreds of browsers just bouncing around your screen. It's too loud to even concentrate, no hotkeys or buttons work anymore. Your computer's using so many resources it can barely operate but you didn't know any better. A YouTube comment told you about this and at sense of urgency just really picked at your curiosity. But now you wish you had just and now there's no escape. You forcefully shut down your computer by pressing hard on the power button. And now everything seems but then you realize that it's due tomorrow, and you And now all of your hours You really are an idiot. You really shouldn't as you are not alone. The &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; Trojan Horse, also known by its official name, Offiz, infected as many as 100,000 computers. And it was now making its as a topic of heated discussion. A subject people immediately regretted becoming acquainted with. Its presence just continued to grow. It wasn't long until people were claiming that their entire hard drives and damaged beyond repair. What exactly was going on? How did the story of &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; go from exhausting tech support into becoming an internet legend? I think answering this this particular computer The answer is we don't know. This malware found itself and consequently becoming yet nobody knows where it came The origin of &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; is one filled with mystique. At this point, it was just so long ago and now little record survives. But with the information we do have, we can formulate theories of what most likely happened. So, where do we think &quot;You Well, properly answering that question requires a bit of historical context. We need to go all the way The internet is still with the vestiges of the 90s, but it is growing at an alarming rate as well as getting smarter and This goes for both the of the internet, as The internet is becoming more because people are demanding Not only was it improving it was learning to solve problems users had been yearning as well as solving problems, users didn't even know that they had. But this came at the expense Some of which were malicious programs were becoming smarter and more difficult to were learning from their past mistakes and &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; But to really see how requires going into rose to prominence and The earliest form of the originally known by its and it first appeared on a website. The website in question is debated as secondary sources of the or just completely But what seems to be the is that it came from a ooh la la website. This is a PG-rated YouTube video, but I'm sure you can fill in the blanks. But it makes perfect sense a malicious program here. It is a great place to I mean, adult websites have since the internet barely even existed. Naturally, this is the kind of website that is going to attract a lot of people. People who in the present are in a certain mood that they otherwise wouldn't do, This would be what ultimately but the program wouldn't until several months on a new website, youdon'tknowwhoiam.org. This is the earliest confirmed record of &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; existence. Anything before that is speculation, but this we know for sure. And it's at this point where online forums start talking about it, but the aforementioned in tying all this together, how did anyone even know that existed in the first place? So, what did the virus actually do? Well, it wasn't It didn't use your computer and spread to other ones. It was a Trojan Horse, a program and innocent, but causes once you activate it. But of course, the vernacular is to call anything malicious a virus. So people just stuck with that. We mentioned that this virus which formed from the early And that's because it took advantage of a relatively new technology that was only becoming This technology is called JavaScript. This wasn't just writing code. This was the closest thing you could get to making something that was alive. Something that could With JavaScript, you were so why not use it to cause mayhem as well. But this virus didn't just It also had another somewhat new and growing technology under Combine these two forces and Any user curious enough to would be greeted with the famous animation we've all grown to recognize. Thanks to the JavaScript, any further attempt to exit the page, whether it be by refreshing will spawn six more smaller windows displaying the same animation, You're not getting off that easy though. The script has programmed the windows to bounce around the page. So, good luck exiting out. And even if you do get rid of one, six more will pop up once again. You now have 11 windows on your computer calling you an idiot and your speakers are just getting louder. You try using some hotkeys to forcefully shut down your browser, but now you just have text windows calling you an idiot as well. Before you know it, the windows have multiplied exponentially and your computer's Your system is so slow, you can barely even You can't even open task Now you have no choice but and shut down your computer the power button. Word was now really getting whether it be from those trying or through dares and chain letters, &quot;Whatever you do, do not go Of course, who would it's notoriety led to multiple variants of the virus to be created, which of course led to Many users claim that the all the files from your computer and cause irreversible damage. It had quickly come out that at least for the version of the virus directly from the website, but at the same time, The virus may not have gone but it's invasive existence but to jump ship, the damage was indirect. Users were typically forced Of course, things would be But if you left something you were out of luck. In some cases, your file from an abrupt shutdown, And if you were really unlucky, you could even end up with that was programmed to In that case, you were pretty much doomed. It all just depended on what from where, luckily of the time which prevented from becoming as devastating Depending on the hardware in your PC, you were a lot safer if you You could just right click or even open task manager, and it would go away pretty quickly just as long as you did Unfortunately, a lot of people running XP were not aware of this feature and would just end up having and then it would be too late. If you were running Windows 2000 or some 9x version of Windows, which a lot of people you were especially unlucky. You kind of just had XP was arguably the safest OS that you would want to get this Trojan on. This possibly could even be a reason for why the virus didn't By 2003, Windows XP had the and was already statistically A lot of people, and were using the safe operating system. &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; was nothing to pull on your friends if but any slight mishap despite its chaotic and The &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; as a rather humorous program in the online space. It was less of a malicious in more of a work of art that In 2004, a new website was youareanidiot.org, It was a mirror version which had now been bought This new site included a much while still obnoxious and distracting and continued to fool people, did not use up nearly as It allowed the program to be preserved as a sort of internet artifact and its influence would or it would soon become a joke While we don't know who created it or their reason behind creating it, &quot;You Are An Idiot&quot; was part of the internet. It showed that as the gets smarter, so do the bad. The internet was seemingly introducing new problems and And based on the reactions of many people, that was a reason to be afraid. But when the aftereffects of those things started to show up, it all and rather than be afraid of instead we can not only but maybe sometimes even laugh about it. And now, it is time to actually I'm going to be doing something a little different this time. I will be demonstrating this malware twice on two different versions of Windows, Windows 2000 and Windows XP, just to really show how the OS can make on the level of severity that this virus can have. As always, please make what you are doing before even attempting to run a program like this. Whether it's benign or not, you never know what can happen, be safe. With that being said, let's get started. As you can see here, I am Looking at my clock. it is the night of New Year's Eve, 2002. And now we are going containing the Trojan. Let's go ahead and open Internet Explorer. Now, just imagine hearing and being told to go on it. You have no idea what it is, but your curiosity is taking over. Here we go. Let's surf the web. (keyboard clicking) You are an idiot Now, here is the flash video which plays on loop indefinitely. Just as the user realizes that the website is nothing special and they they will go ahead and X out. Uh-oh, that is way louder Okay. As you can see, it is catching these windows to close them. And once you do, you are Look at that. The more I do this, the more these windows will grow exponentially. Six windows, times six I'm currently pressing Alt+4 It's just adding more of the windows. Wow. Look at that. Well, as you can see, I've gotten myself in kind We've tried everything Now, we're going to do with task manager. I can't even open task manager. It's so stuck. Okay. We got task manager open. Let's go ahead and end all the processes. Well, it's gone, and the OS is hung. Can't click anything, nothing. For a user, this would often Now, you're gonna have to shut the computer down physically. If you have any work open, As I mentioned, you were much better off in terms of saving your data if you were running this program on XP. Of course your results may vary depending on your how many processes you have running, and a million other things. There's no official data to but based on what I've tested, I really do believe this is true. And you should always believe because I know everything. Now let's go run this on XP. Same as before, go to our website. Flash animation. Let's go ahead and generate like last time. Right click, close group. That didn't work. Okay. Still not working. Task manager. There we go. As you can see, we didn't Windows XP, one, Windows 2000, zero. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please subscribe and hit so that you never miss a future video. Also, be sure to check out Retrology, providing content Hope to see you there.