- What's up everybody? It's Enes here. Welcome to another video. Today we're at F1rst This is the world's most with over $100 million worth of cars. They have some of the most expensive cars in the world, right here. And today we're taking a look. (ethereal electronic music) All right, everyone. So we have Ali here, who is the manager of this amazing car dealership. First off, thank you so - Welcome. - This place is insane. - Thank you so much. - I feel like I'm a kid in a candy store. And tell us a little bit I know you guys are kinda - We've been open for over This started as a hobby. So we had a passion for cars and we were also buyers of cars. You know, we saw a gap in terms of service when it comes to customers. And what we decided to do out of a hobby. Yeah. This was all just planned From the moment we took the everything was done in three months. - That's amazing. And I mean, he's almost Look around you. I mean, the place is spotless. Every detail is thought out. The lighting, the spacing, It's impressive. The moment you walk in you It's just so nice. - We had special lighting engineers. We spent 1.5 million AED So it wasn't just done randomly. And we do have a technical area. We do have our own in-house mechanics. We do have our own polishing area, car wash facility, everything. We're actually aiming to open - Really? - As I was telling you earlier, when we did open this place, How we gonna fill this place up? But now that, you know, we're in the game, we're actually thinking it's too small. So... - You wanna expand it? - Upstairs also does belong to us. We're gonna expand. We're gonna put some more with the cars, it's limitless (calm vocal music) - Okay. So this is an area I really like. - Yeah. - You basically have like I'm assuming a lot of clients - Yeah. A lot of clients, they actually don't know what they wanna buy. They like to come here. They like to sit. They like to chat. Apart from the cars, So we do property, we do gold and jewelry, we do watches and we're and the watches actually upstairs. - Upstairs. - Yeah, so those all go hand in hand and we do have our friends over here, which are also our clients. And this is a get together whether it's a new client, - I hear you and I on what Ali just said. Cultures like UAE or Dubai, people like to work with people that they have a relationship with. That they trust. And that goes long ways, if they trust them to buy their hyper car, which are just insane numbers. - They're most likely gonna for their jewelry. And if a company like Ali's it goes long way. So it's really important, right? - Of course. So it's a (hip hop music) Cars that we bring here, We want them to be the best of the best, when we bring them here. So we don't just bring normal cars. - It's almost like not just buying a car out of a car dealership, it's more so like, you're - Of course. - And you're kind of feeling it out to see if there's a particular art, because it's kind of - Of course, of course. That's what we try to bring here. Customers when they do come But we have to set ourselves Our market is different the unique pieces here, that 'Cause if everybody has - Exactly, and speaking of to source these cars alone. It's not like you can just take They're all one of. - So how do you source all these cars? - We do have a few dealers, We do work with most of and we do also work - Collectors. - And we have to pay a premium - Basically what he's saying is, if you wanna buy a 918 it's like, you gotta own couple 911 or like... - Of course. You have to have And yeah, we pay the people to bring the cars in here. Yeah, you do have, it is invitation only. And most of these cars, whether it's the 765, the Divo you need to have before they give you the Divo. So, you know, and there Same with Porsche, you have for them to... - Big collector. (hip hop music) (car engine revving) They say money cannot buy you happiness. Habibi, come to Dubai. - Then Dubai people like unlike Europe or the west, I dunno, they They like to be seen. They like to make trouble, so. - I was just gonna say, I'm People have special license plates. In the US, it would be Like, people would not - You have the freedom and to show it. And you do have safety over here. - Yeah. - So you're not worried about the safety. You can just enjoy life over here. - Enjoy life over here. (hip hop music) I wanna cover the three cars that are in front of us right now. That's a Speedtail, I'm assuming. - Yeah. - Okay. How much is that car? - That one is 15.5 million AED, which is roughly around 4.5 million USD. 106 pieces of these made. - Can we get close? - Yeah, yeah, sure. Shafiek, open this car. - I mean, look at that door handle. By the way, I don't even know how this, oh, there you go. - Yeah. - That's pretty insane. - So this is the successor which is trading around which is one of the most It's a three seater car and you in the back and you could be driving to wherever you wanna go. right in the center. - Exactly. - What is this one, because - That's a Porsche GT1. This is the ultimate collector car and the most expensive This is a Strassenversion, Now what's special about this car, it only had one owner. - And 6,000 kilometers on the clock, but, no accidents. That's what makes this car special. - Gotcha. - Only one owner and no accidents. 70% of the vehicles made do have accidents and the price of this, 15 million Euros, which is our most - That is insane. That's LaFerrari. - LaFerrari. - How many of these in the world? - 499. Price is roughly - That's amazing. Mikey, can we get a close up? I just realized something. Look at the little Ferrari logo built into the paint job there. I didn't even know that. - Yeah, like most of our that are low kilometer, and that's what makes them unique. Especially with the collector cars. This one is a brand new one, 2015 and... - How many kilometers? - Zero. - Really? That's what makes this special. - So someone basically bought this thing and started knowing that it was - Exactly. Exactly. - We have something crazy behind us. I think this is the in our team's life that - Yeah. - Tell us what we have here. - This is the Sian 63. 63 have been produced. What's unique about this car is that every single Sian So this is the only yellow one Apart from the car being the ever produced, it's also... - What's the specs on this horsepower? - [Ali] 800. - [Enes] Can we see the inside? - [Ali] Of course. - [Enes] So Ali's gonna show you guys in. - [Enes] What do you think Mikey? - [Mikey] I'm a long way from South Texas. (Enes laughs) - [Ali] What's beautiful about If you can get the back This one's been sold anyway, but. - [Enes] Price on this thing? - 15.5 - Million? - Yes. - Is it more expensive than Divo? - No, Divo is the most Divo is 34 million. Two of them have already been - Really? - Yeah, and over ten Divos are in Dubai. So that just shows you the - That's insane. Okay. You gotta take us in. - Of course, of course. - We gotta see this thing. I don't know we're ever gonna get a chance to see a car like this again. This is insane. - Here you go. It's a carbon - Mikey, come inside, check this out. It looks unreal. It looks like a computer printed screen. - And obviously this is, you if you wanna, I dunno what to say this. - If you wanna boost your ego. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, you cannot top this off basically. - You cannot, you cannot. When you have this, you're That's it. - I feel like as you go towards the back, it's a little bit more grown up. Little bit more subtle. - Of course. - But you got a lot of Lamborghinis here. - Yeah. - I'm assuming the one with the 63 number is something special. - So this is the Aventador these are also individually colored. Each car has its own spec. And what makes the Aventador special is actually the cosmetics. So you have this 63 on the front. You do have the carbon in the normal Aventador. Horsepower is 770 horsepower. Due to the carbon, it is a bit lighter, but it's mostly a collector piece. That's why it's more expensive. Usually around 50 to 60%, more Mansory is also a fine tuner. - Okay. Can I say this? He was here two days ago. - He was here two days ago. We do have a good relationship with him. We are one of the few dealers and he does work with. I always call him Picasso, even if he scratches a vehicle, Yeah, perfect cars. - [Mikey] What is the and a regular Urus? - Okay, the horsepower. So this is a P720. So this is 720 horsepower, which is roughly around 80 more horsepower than a normal Urus. And it's the cosmetics. I mean, if you look at the and that's a normal Urus. You have the more... - The body kits, the flaps, Mikey, get a close up, like carbon fiber is a very interesting material and it's kind of a piece of art. The way you layer each cloth and how you polish it. It's obviously exposed carbon fiber. - Of course. - And it just looks gorgeous. This is art. This is... - What makes Mansory his own carbon fiber producing factory. So in carbon fiber, he's number one. He makes the best carbon fiber - Amazing. All right. Coming back to the Brabus. Are we getting this thing started? - Yes. Shafiek start the car. - I'll go to the back so a little better. Exhaust is here actually. - Exhaust. Yeah. (car engine starting) (car engine revving) - That's insane. Can you just imagine this thing I mean, it's a beast. We have like, there's a 918 over there. - Of course, that's Weissach. - Okay. What is the difference of that? - Yeah. So total 918, 918 pieces of the 918 And with the Weissach, I would say less than 200 have been produced. - Okay. - So the less kilometers a car, of course, the more special it is. This one right here is and it is a Weissach and the To give you an example, has doubled in value - That's crazy. How much is - This one is just under 7 million AED which is roughly around $1.80 - 1.8 million. Let's show your, I don't This is your showroom. This is, I guess, the area and kind of stage the cars, right? Mikey, the light box design above. I feel like it's kind of - [Mikey] Enes and I are in Los Angeles right - Okay. - And we need to build one of these. - We will have like a like a car channel if you to get the beauty shots. - &quot;This is the new&quot; - Basically, this is where And this is where people whenever they see this. - I feel like this space is so decked out, it makes everybody look good. I'm sure even I look decent right now. - It's like a bubble, so you get lost. You dunno where it - Exactly. Nah, this is amazing. This is a Ford GT, by the way. - Ford GT, of course, we're representing American cars as well. This is a V6 twin turbo and one of the best It's a collector piece and - What is the current price on this? - This is 3.2 million AED which is roughly around $850,000 but they are more expensive in Europe. - Gotcha. - [Mikey] Obviously, you are a car guy, you know your cars very well. - Of course. - What's your favorite - Of all time, it'll - Really? - Yeah. Ford GT. - Gotcha. - [Mikey] There's no other option really. I don't think. - There is some. - Well, some people are... - You'll have to go on the classics then. - There's muscle cars, - Of course. I like the hypercars. - [Mikey] Yeah. - What is your favorite car here? - In the showroom? - [Ali] It's a P1 GTR. There's only 40 of these It's done by Lanzante, the conversion. What makes this car - Well like the red on the - No, no, no. That's the actual... - Color of it. - Color of the car. Yeah. - Another 918. - Of course. - Another LaFerrari. So you have two of them - Yeah, that's a LaFerrari Aperta. Okay. That's a LaFerrari Coupe. And of course, every time we sell a car, we wanna push the limits and So from the LaFerrari, of is the best one. - It's the best one. - And we always want to aim for the top. And again, this is another Weissach. Which, if we do bring cars, - You kind of up the level. To people out there who want what are your few recommendations? - I recommend anything anyone They should buy now. Most of the cars now We're moving into hybrid or So everything is going to go up in value. And that's one of the reasons we were confident about opening. We're not worried about having bad stock what we tell our other customers we actually tell them, &quot;Go look around see what prices you can find. We're still gonna be best priced, well better price than everyone else.&quot; - And then get whatever you want. - Of course. - Lastly, if they come they watched our video, - Of course. Always. - Okay. You guys heard it from him. - Of course, of course. Yeah, I'll set your commission aside. (Ali laughs) - I don't want commission, back to our viewers. Okay guys, that's it. Thank you so much. - Thank you so much for coming. - For the tour. - Yeah. We really, really appreciate it. As always guys, F1rst Motors, link into description, make - Our pleasure. - And then we'll see you guys next week. (hip hop music) - So Enes, I know you You've been around the world I mean, showing them, but there's one cool and I need to show you. - Okay. I'm curious. (gamepad clicking)