[Music] There have been many important figures but there was one that made an even greater by many names, a marine, the unchained ripped and tore his way through Hell itself. why did the demons of Hell fear Here, we explore in the lore and Way before the Doom Slayer became one of the most space marine from Planet Earth. While most of the it is believed that he came from a long line Blaz-co-vich [Blazkowicz] and Commander Keen. marine followed his orders well, that was until by his commanding officer. In this moment, he in his mind, was the right thing to do, but as service and transferred to Mars to work with facility was home to radioactive waste facilities For three years, the marine worked security teleportation experiments that the UAC had been from within the Phobos Base, that they &quot;required was coming out of the gateways&quot; and shortly after, base to help them. Upon arrival, the Marine rest of the team went into the base. For but all he picked up on the radio was guns Believing his squad to be dead, the marine and he came across the demonic entities from Hell to Phobos. As a skilled marine, of these evil creatures that had taken over this travelled through a portal into Hell itself. was behind this whole invasion, and using the his journey through the facility and Hell, After this victory, the marine discovered he found himself on Earth. Then he realised that Mastermind had also invaded his home planet. chaos that this invasion had created. Whole streets. When he finally arrived at his family child and his pet rabbit, Daisy. Everything vengeance. So, he took an old family photo and a the demons that had destroyed his life. were attempting to evacuate the survivors of this do so. The problem was that the invaders had set going by the name, Doom Guy, slayed the demons of humanity managed to escape the planet. a family, the Doom Guy felt like he had done his a message from Earth Control in space where they in the heart of his home city. So, he travelled believed that if he re-entered, then could close Upon his arrival in Hell, he destroyed where the demons came to fear him. The Doom Guy he discovered the Icon of Sin, a gruesome giant over this awful ordeal, the Doom Guy destroyed in Hell and closed the portal to Earth, where he As time went on, the Doom Guy struggled to adapt horrific events he had survived. The demons, but the doctors could not help him get past On Mars, something had survived his wrath. she wandered Phobos and resurrected the dead, even UAC discovered another potential invasion was down. On yet another harrowing journey, the on his way to Hell and slayed The Mother, he decided to close the gateway from inside invasion from within, a sacrifice for humanity. Hell and the bodies of demons piled up around him. Mother of Demons, decided to do something about and so, teleported him back to Earth into namesake, he brought Doom to every demon where he came upon the Resurrector. And problem destroying her, just like her sister. he had a vision of a path of perpetual as the years passed, his mind only focused Suddenly, The Doom Guy found himself in a new Unknown to him, he had somehow travelled some even say to a different timeline. the Argenta people lived under the rule of King They all worshipped the Maykr species, who, new technologies and information to thrive in the Argenta went out into the universe to to every sentient species they discovered. city of Sentinel Prime, they came upon this man into their city, where they introduced him a species they had not encountered before, where about him from his broken, bloodied body, as His ramblings of demons, guts, and blood. upon them was to be judged inside of the he died, but if he won, he would be allowed From the stands, the Argenta watched as the fought against the creatures of the Coliseum. They his war cry echoed across the arena. Here, he words &quot;rip and tear&quot; just as he did, even though With his flawless technique and rage to fuel where even the best warriors in King Novik's As the Outlander was returned to his living ramblings of evil, demons, death and a world the leader of the Maykr species, asked her she could understand what he was saying. As one develop technologies, the Khan Maykr quickly As she listened, she took note of these creatures discovered. She believed that it could be word and gift with Maykr technology, when in As time passed, the Outlander stopped speaking the Argenta army with other prisoners that had were nothing compared to what was coming. broke through reality and created portals of fire they came upon this place by chance, or whether In their hordes, the demonic entities took down died attempting to fight them off. So, the Night problem, where the Holy Wars began. The army of It was quickly discovered that these were from the very essence of a tortured soul. demons had invaded Argent D'Nur in order acquire Hell Essence from their deaths - and evil beings, the stronger Hell's forces became. of Argent D'Nur, in the background, the best and created energy from the souls of the dead, and it of Hell Essence. Upon the discovery that a soul they believed that if they could somehow travel power from within and end the war. But as they Priests and the Khan Maykr, who believed that they armies and the Maykr and Argenta way of life. they leaned into it and created their own secret the energy of the Argenta people, Wraith Throughout this time, blood filled the claim more land and life from Argent D'Nur. Here, of how long the Outlander had survived against around him. He ripped and tore them apart, and more. He was a being that thrived on the death King Novik deemed him worthy to be elevated This was new for the Night Sentinels as only the army, but the Doom Guy showed great promise they believed his addition broke tradition, situation, in any condition and still come out he was trained as a Night Sentinel, where Over time, the Night Sentinels fought many always came. So, the Doom Guy asked to enter Hell where he led the charge, where he impressed even Sentinels. Over the span of three journeys into wounds and sickness in his never ending lust for his brothers in the army. And as such, over the Night Sentinels accepted him as one of Unknown to the population of Argent D'Nur, the it into weaponry to fight against the demonic was off with this discovery and distanced agreement between the Maykr and lords of Hell. In this never ending war, the Black Star to its climax. As King Novik sat on his throne, army on their way to Taras Nabad, the Capital by a monstrous Titan, the Dreadnought. fell to this giant creature, and it down. Although the Doom Guy joined them to injure it as this relentless assault continued. an elevated member of the Maykr species, sought of Purity. Inside of this chapel, the Khan Maykr he placed the Outlander inside and activated of the Dark Lord himself, and as the power he absorbed it and became something new. discovered that he now had the abilities of super just a few and to match his new-found ability, his praetor suit so that he could thrive even his newfound god-like powers allowed him to he grew more powerful with each kill. Guy rejoined the fight with the Crucible in the Doom Guy fought against this demonic horde and Warrior King plunged the blade of the crucible the Doom Guy or Outlander, he was the Doom Slayer. side, the Night Sentinels once again took the they were able to travel deeper into this realm energy. Then, they discovered just where Argent region of Nekravol that the Khan Maykr had they uncovered that the very energy they had of their fallen brothers on the battlefield. Maykr and her deal with the lords of hell, the to Argent D'Nur. Although the Doom Slayer did did care about any who allied themselves with Maykr was just another creature to destroy. people of what they had discovered in Hell, and fearful of the Maykrs, against the Night Hell and witnessed their chaos first-hand. the Argenta Priests publicly allied themselves that if they could enter Nekravol and shut down would lose their source of energy - and So, following the Argenta Priests, the Night aim to travel to Nekravol. But, upon entering, across Hell, all separated from one another as the Sentinels discovered that they had been As each of these soldiers fought alone, they demons claimed them until only the Doom in completely different parts of Hell. remaining days in Hell in a self-imposed exile for the resurrection of his son, while the wave of demon he encountered. He had originally but now, with his enhanced abilities, his On his endless killing streak, he crushed took down the beasts of the nine circles for his goal to take down the whole of Hell. fought for aeons against demons, as time worked of Hell's landscape. The demons knew of him, them eventually. There were always more demons the inhabitants of this twisted land etched his strength grew, undying, always thirsty the demons even selected a titan as a champion kill him, but he was too powerful and took it the murderous reign of this superpowered human. came together to stop the crusade of the Doom temple. To do this, they lured him with prey into and as he entered, the priests collapsed the cursed by the Demon Priests themselves. This moment created relief for the population of without the threat of the Doom Slayer. And open this sarcophagus, they etched the In 2095, the Union Aerospace Corporation expedition to Mars. Upon observation and analysis Argent Plasma from this fracture to solve an Over time, they explored the fracture and they took armed guards with them to fight off of these expeditions of Hell, the UAC came upon Sanctum - which they extracted and brought through exploration of this land, the personnel of a slayer that had made his mark on the land. was actually the Seraphim who had given Argent D'Nur fought against the demonic invasion. he had lost his reputation and transferred his Hayden appeared to want to help Earth's energy endeavours, but he suspected his protege, Olivia manipulative nature of the demons of Hell, and he took the sarcophagus of the Doom Slayer wake him if he was ever needed again. To his confusion, he looked at the and it appeared he was not in Hell any more. had not changed, he was surrounded by demons. he put on his Praetor suit and discovered that UAC researcher, Olivia Pierce, had made a pact unleashed a demonic invasion. On his journey he was introduced to Samuel Hayden who kept Hayden guided the Doom Slayer through the help from an artificial construct called VEGA. what he did best, ripped and tore apart the unknown what the Doom Slayer's intentions were, Olivia Pierce from opening a Hell Portal, and asked by Hayden to locate The Well, the source the Doom Slayer secured a Helix Stone and, destroy this, then the invasion would be over. and discovered the trapped wraiths that powered by the Argenta, but when the Maykr species had and their power used to create Argent Energy. he absorbed the energy from their bodies, to meet Olivia Pierce. In his preparation, he that had died in this place. His brothers When the Doom Slayer finally came he watched as she was betrayed by the Dark Lords the Doom Slayer had no trouble taking down. activity and the Well shut down, Hayden pulled situation, Hayden had merely used this force of for his combat ability to stop Olivia, and into the crucible. So, when The Doom him restrained as he took the crucible from him. needed this energy to continue the production of He knew that the Doom Slayer would be against with his use of him depleted, he sent the not interfere with his plans, but also where him. Stored in an unknown location in a state of From his prison, the Doom Slayer was freed once not been invaded, it was Planet Earth. A familiar he got to work on finding out who was behind had passed, but at this point, it did not matter. he discovered that the masterminds behind tricked him and the Night Sentinels many years and the demons, Argenta Priests, now going Maykr were still on his list for revenge. the control of The Fortress of Doom. A ship of to teleport him almost anywhere in the universe. humanity saw The Doom Slayer as the saviour him only to be a myth. Regardless, the Doom and tracked down both Nilox and Ranak where he Finally, the Doom Slayer travelled to the holy many years of being away. Here, he tracked down Hell Priests had caused so much destruction a priest on holy ground instantly led to the Doom With her Hell Priests dead, the Khan Maykr decided she began a ritual to unleash the Icon of destroy it. As this giant demonic titan the son of Commander Valen, its heart still she could control his heart to do her bidding. Samuel Hayden explained that he had won was making her next move. With a new titan, so he returned to Argent D'Nur's capital city of was abandoned after a long war, and after he arrived at the body of the titan he had slain. died during the siege of Taras Nabad, it was blade of the crucible kept it in this state. So, the hilt of the crucible and left the blade inside recharge his crucible for the fight to come. followed Hayden instructions and arrived in the came from. To his luck, he managed to interrupt where he stabbed its heart with Commander Valen's had to the Khan Maykr, which left it to only crave it turned around and travelled through a portal Furious with the Doom Slayer's consistent but the Slayer caught up to her and had his created so many issues in his long life, the Doom After jumping through a portal to Earth, he down this huge creature in an intense battle the Icon of Sin. With the Hell Priests, the invasion of Earth was stopped and the Doom The War of Good and Evil had raged on for a long the Icon of Sin, humanity began to rebuild, but to avoid another invasion attempt on Earth, Doom Slayer tracked down the body of The Seraphim any war to come. Unknown to him, the body of the form, where he went by the name of Samur Maykr. from the secret UAC Atlantica Facility, Hayden body - where, the Doom Slayer realised that this him away during the fight with the Dreadnought Now with a great ally on his side, the Seraphim to retrieve the life sphere of The Father, who Seraphim believed that if they could restore The greater ally in their fight against Hell's forces. orders, where he completed the trials of Maligog he not only discovered The Father's life In his rage, he decided to destroy the life sphere instead. If he could restore this potentially kill the devil himself. By Hell's law, then all demonic life outside of hell would the Doom Slayer, and so, he proceeded to Urdak to restore the physical body of the Dark Lord. the Doom Slayer entered with The Dark Lord's life enraged that the Doom Slayer had destroyed they fought. Unsurprisingly, the Doom Slayer After handing The Dark Lord's life sphere to Dark Lord in all of his glory, but strangely Doom Slayer. The form of the greatest warrior. the Doom Slayer shot at him hoping to but this was a holy place and no blood could told him that he would wait within Hell in the In this last stretch, the Doom Slayer travelled when he arrived, many other worlds accompanied own species that had been subjected But the Doom Slayer had only one target in mind. finally arrived in the chamber of The Dark Lord, the Dark Lord explained that he was the original The Father, and this had, in turn twisted him and the Doom Slayer did not care for his story responsible for all of the negativity in his everyone he had known - and having absorbed the the Doom Slayer easily matched him in this unable to keep up with The Doom Slayer's rage. Doom Slayer if he wanted to say anything to responded only with, &quot;no&quot; as he plunged his By Hells' Law, if the Dark Lord is defeated Hell's borders will fall with the Dark Lord. did. But as the Doom Slayer also was, in part, This was the ultimate ending of The Doom Slayers' out the Dark Lord himself, but it had come at he was not dead. And, in order to now without the leadership of the Khan Maykr and placed it inside of a sarcophagus just This man had gone by many names, the Outlander and Hellwalker. Daisy, finally avenged, he could now rest The Doom Slayer is the face of the Doom Series character that has been through so much loss his whole family after the invasion on Earth and again. Only to travel through time to basically Earth. He is one of the best characters This is the hardest episode I have ever written, timeline and canonicity of Doom is all over contradicts itself. From hours of research, Doom 64 and The Lost Levels are canon while the universe. Then there's a link between The Lost in Hell after killing the Resurrector, but it is Anyway, I did my best to put this together! Slayer in Doom. If you enjoyed this episode, It helps boost the video in the algorithm! you're interested in following me there gold tier patrons Jonas, Lewis, QueenArby, What did you think of this lore? Which is your see next? Let me know in the comments below.