There is something unusual Unlike most sculptures which look painstakingly crafted Mount Rushmore almost seems and not by the work of a great sculptor. The reality is Mount Rushmore is not only Despite having zero artistic experience an enormous team of gold miners managed using jackhammers, dynamite, We modeled the entire thing to show you how they mapped the design onto the mountain using ancient Greek technology and how all of this was But in order to understand why Mount But in order to understand why Mount Rushmore exists in the first place we need to go back in time. In the early 1920s the state of and it was struggling to get its foot in the door. State historian Doane Robinson saw how tourists from all over the country had been flocking to a new sculpture in the state of Georgia, and this gave him an idea. He reached out to the sculptor Gutzon Borglum and asked if he'd like to make an enormous sculpture of America's Wild West Heroes. Borglum was excited by the idea, but thought that more National figures like presidents would draw more attention. And so, in the summer of 1925 he traveled to South Dakota a 500 foot tall cliff edge He knew that this would be With the mountain secured, he started and put together a 1:12 scale model Now he had to figure out how he At the time Mount Rushmore had nothing No roads, no electricity and no way and so, in the summer of 1927 a road was built that could Soon after, an entire village with tool shops, blacksmiths An enormous staircase and a cable car was set up to A winch house was also where operators could raise and lower the brave workers on small seats to any point on the mountain. With all of this in place the team team could finally start carving With the help of carefully placed the crew started tearing until they had a rough egg-shaped head. From here, it was up to the workers But handling these 30 kg jackhammers on the side of a cliff would be a huge challenge and powering them would require The jackhammers ran on compressed air and so a building at the base It contained 3 massive air compressors that ran on electricity These would run all day, compressing all the way up the side of the staircase and into a building at the top of the mountain. From here, up to 16 jackhammers To stop the jackhammers from jumping all over the rock, they developed their own techniques. Sometimes installing chains to grab onto to guide the jackhammer into the rock. The workers became experts but without any artistic or sculpting experience how did they know where to drill? On the Stone Mountain Memorial, Borglum used a large projector to map out his design but Mount Rushmore was much larger and the 3D nature of the faces He had to figure out how to transfer Did you know that your own into the hands of marketing agencies who then fill your inbox with spam? Luckily, you have the right and that's where Incogni They reach out to these and ask them to remove All you need to do is create an account, They contact each company individually Saving you an enormous amount of work. I've been using Incogni for months now and it has basically Incogni now has a family plan that will also protect your loved ones from online scams and spam. To protect your data and Visit incogni.com/primalspace and use code PRIMALSPACE In order to turn Mount Rushmore into a reality Borglum had to figure out how to map He took inspiration from the Greeks who were able to make identical copies of Roman statues using a pointing machine. This was a tool that could relative to a reference point. This could then be transferred giving the artist a guide to carve to. By doing this for thousands of points the exact shape of the sculpture could be replicated. This worked well for replicas of the same size but in order to scale up his design Borglum would have to get creative. He came up with his own pointing machine which was essentially a metal arm that could swing around a fixed axis. By placing the weighted He could get three measurements the angle of the point, its horizontal distance and its vertical distance. By simply multiplying the exact same point could be But for that Borglum would need to make a much larger pointing machine on top of Mount Rushmore and so that's exactly what he did. Using this giant machine thousands of points could be showing the workers where to drill Instead of carving out the entire part the workers would drill a series of holes then the rock between the holes After a couple hours of solid drilling a steel worker would come down on a harness with replacement bits The work was tough and the men spent for just 50 cents an hour. Over the next few years work progressed and eventually George Washington's Borglum had assembled a well-oiled team and so he turned his attention to the finer details. One of the trickiest parts about Typical Greek sculptures have perfectly smooth eyes which look flat and lifeless. To give the eyes a realistic shine he cut out a hole that was then at the center of the pupil to give the impression This was an extremely risky process since the rock could Its effect was amazing these square sections To finish off the heads, workers would do a process called bumping which would smoothen out the surface and pulverize it, turning it into a whiter color. The carving of Mount Rushmore but in the end it was never quite finished. The original plan was to have and a secret tomb designed with when the project came to an end. The second world war took away all of the attention and money from Mount Rushmore and just a couple years later Ultimately, Borglum and Robinson achieved their goal of putting South Dakota on the map. And now, time for the Primal Space Giveaway. The winner of the In the next video we'll be giving away one of these awesome metmo cube desk toys. Precisely machined All you need to do is sign up and leave a comment saying Thank you very much for watching