6 reasons why the Gender Critical right and Ah, Pronouns. I've been a little afraid to make this video, But I guarantee you need to hear what I have Everyone is talking - ok, yelling - about Verbs, adjectives, even nouns don't get But for those of us who actually study pronouns them - and there are dozens of us - it's increasingly unhinged. Unfortunately, plenty of well-meaning linguists Some of the confusion, anger, and vitriol gender. But there's also an overlooked third component, Today I'm going to talk about pronouns and What they are, why people are so worked up, do to navigate this cultural moment. Let's get into it. I'm Dr. Taylor Jones, a straight, cis-gendered Uh...this is Language Jones. [Break] What are your pronouns? Many of you have asked or been asked this Maybe in person, maybe introducing yourself survey or questionnaire. And if you haven't asked or been asked this, Profiles on Twitter might have "he/him" Unquestionably, there's a societal shift It's largely motivated by a desire to be the population that self-identifies as either basically boils down to not self-identifying categorize you, especially around binary sex Depending on who you ask and which surveys of people or like 20% of people. Some people are very supportive of this shift But here's the thing, the majority of people most of what they're talking about. I'll always come down on the side of kindness THAT wrong. And sometimes kindness and inclusion are in perceive to be truth, and honestly. So, here's six reasons why YOU are wrong 1. You're wrong about what pronouns even are. Many people arguing about pronouns have only People are even worse at identifying pronouns So you have people out here saying that there around and saying "THOU SHALT NOT..." What do you think THOU is??? Spoiler: it's a pronoun. Even the original language has pronouns in other cases. (Pronouns in biblical Hebrew are a whole separate You also have people saying "sir" or "ma'am" Or "bro," "dude," or "guys." They are not. Those are gendered, yes, but they're terms function as pronouns. Most of those terms of address are nouns. Regular old vanilla nouns. So pronouns are a category of word - and in linguistics - that stand in for a noun. They're reusable, so they're kind of like If I talk about my friend Chris, after I've Like I just did. It was "him." "Him" refers to Chris. And "it" referred to "a pronoun." You might use "him" thousands of times people. Pronouns are effectively a pointer to some out from context. Across languages, pronouns differ in part Some languages make you choose a different to is singular or plural. Or if there are precisely two. Some make you specify formality and social (formal or plural), or early modern English Some languages have inclusive and exclusive us all together, and us but not you. Standard English doesn't distinguish between both "you" - but many informal varieties y'all. Some regions of the American South now have and all y'all is the true plural. And some languages specify gender, some don't. English splits the difference and ONLY specifies Not I or you, but a special THIRD person we're have gendered versions of I and you, in addition That brings us to another thing you're wrong 2. You're wrong about gender. Gender is a word related to the word "genre." It literally just means type or category. Part of the reason we talk about gender in trying NOT to say "sex." We can get into a more detailed discussion, reproductive categories for a species: humans by combining a small, mobile gamete, with new human is carried by the person with the This is a characterization of the species, those categories. This is how I imagine humans in the Federation Before they explain gender. Before they problematize that. Before they get it on. Gender, on the other hand, means something different when we're talking about language. In the social sciences, it can be thought speak, behave, and dress, based on socially These categories are often, but not always There are many cultures that famously have Thailand, to some Native American cultures. In linguistics, though, it's categories English has masculine and feminine, basically to talk about people so you basically have the referent is known to the listener. If not, I can do what I just did and say "they" But other languages don't have genders that The word for woman in German is feminine, In Dutch there are two genders but both man is neuter. In Zulu there are 14 genders, but 6 are different first six, and the last two make things into So umuntu is a person, abantu are people, is the abstract concept of humanity. I have to use U- as the third person singular and nobody can identify as Si- instead, because And even in languages where they're called and woman is feminine, you still run into In French, person is feminine. Une personne. And the word for female genitalia, what linguists Slang terms for the male member, like PIPE Because it's about linguistic categories, By the way, if you speak other languages, below with the most interesting grammatical across. I've already discussed how in some other terms only for nouns and pronouns that refer animate/inanimate distinction, which is...wait Anyway, In English, there's a trend toward That's singular they for a named referent, And you're all wrong about those too. Doubly wrong. 3. You're wrong about how hard neopronouns First, you're wrong about how hard they In intro to linguistics, undergrads are often This means that unlike verbs or adjectives, And yet, new ones organically arise all the Vosotros is relatively new in the history Portuguese has an impersonal a gente, and from third person to first person plural to want to take personal responsibility for what I've even coauthored work on how some forms requirements for pronounhood in African American And if it were so hard for us to learn new who "youse" refers to or use it myself Besides, many of us learn foreign languages, in different languages. So saying "This is Bex, they go by 'they'"is be. BUT it's also not as easy as some people 4. You're wrong about how easy neopronouns There are plenty of studies that indicate "he hit him" incur a processing cost. That is, they are annoying and make your brain It's a higher cost when there's a perceived Bob said so he hit them." And lots of experimental evidence from psycholinguistics is harder to follow. There are trans linguists who research pronoun an easier time and some people have a harder use. It's harder to figure out who ze refers to map a person to a new category like ze, that person to "she," for instance. There's a higher level of cognitive stress expected to use pronouns we're not comfortable a foreign language, with the additional element at literally any new sentence. And don't even think about just avoiding If you say Alice saw Alice in the mirror and an absolute basketcase. Plus, remember how I said that pronouns are Well the consensus in psycholinguistics is new Alices all over the place, and then had Alice after the fact. The default is to make new conceptual objects for everybody. Both speaker and listener. So just as the people saying it's impossible acting like it's the easiest thing in the But all of that ignores the bigger, deeper 5. You're wrong about culture. A huge, overlooked part of the pronoun debates informed assumptions that dramatically influence Advocates used to refer to so-and-so's "preferred Now people will say "my pronouns are...". Here's the thing: this is one cultural approach I'm not saying it's wrong, but I AM saying In English, we talk about third person pronouns. Literally, how someone talks ABOUT us when To say that I, as an individual, can determine I'm not around, is on the extreme individualist And the extreme individualists on the other me what words are supposed to come out of We don't have to go into a deep dive on Geert Hofstede's classic "Culture's ways of thinking about this. In a highly collectivist or community oriented that already exist in my culture are what of how new categories emerge - and that it is up to OTHERS to choose to refer to me So my appearance, behavior, and so on, can it, any more than I get to determine my adjectives used to refer to me (zaddy). I'll reiterate that I'm on the side of me how they feel they should be referred to, But it also means that when people ask me Call me whatever you want when you're talking for supper." Other straight guys might be LIVID at being And there's plenty of aspects of my identity fail or refuse to acknowledge. Out of prejudice, malice, disagreement, or Both my self-conception (handsome, intelligent) Of course some of those have established norms to be a PhD or a Jew based on vibes alone. And some are gradient: I can get certified English. And what would it mean to be a certified man Dare I ask you to leave a comment below? AND if we're talking about my group memberships contain multitudes -- maybe I don't always body. That's why: 6. You're wrong about inclusion. Choosing to share what pronouns correspond open discussion and acceptance of what people (it's not a perfect phrase, I know), makes But sometimes in the spirit of inclusion, REQUIRING people to share their pronouns means (not great) or to choose to be in the closet It means that people who can't identify are put on the spot, and they know it's of them as moral beings in the world, but first place. Bad vibes, all around. It also might put different social pressures I was at a conference a few years back, and n-word, yes, that one (he's got a book about r -- as his pronoun on the write-in part of Yes, it can function as a pronoun, and yes, identity. But also, it's a social taboo for anyone - to say that word, let alone in addressing He was highlighting the tensions around identity, respect. If you truly respect him, you'll respect But you also socially CANNOT call him that. It was a provocative move that got people levels of language. And yes, it was at a linguistics conference, And it's not just that word. People who may want, prefer, demand, or expect reasons. I've come across a few people who take delight work it out in real time. That's a tiny minority of a group that's phenomenon. Another issue is that people who don't respect Even the people who think that there are only intentionally misgender straight, cisgender So your best case scenario is that you at be respectful and those who don't behave Which is not nothing. So what do we do with all this information? Well, if you believe there's a global trafficking of the basement of a pizza parlor that doesn't for your orders from JFK, then I'm not sure And if you're changing your pronouns every you get what you get. But for the rest of us, if you just want to identities, even if you don't fully understand The third is contentious, and you may not salt. 1. Don't force people to categorize themselves It's the same with gender as it is for genetic It's never great to demand "what are you?" To someone. And it's hardly ever actually relevant. When they're ready for you to know, they'll I might be in the minority here, but I always on SNL's "it's Pat." Pat just shows up to work and shares birthday Life. 2. When people do share, if you respect them, If that means pronouns that are hard for you, and using new pronouns is behavior that demonstrates And it's about as hard as talking to someone but ambiguously. "Did you hear about Fred and Steve? He told him he'd see him tomorrow, but he there but he just wasn't looking in the 3. This one is the contentious one. Linguists talk about something called audience based on WHO you're talking to. I've seen instances where people intentionally without clarification, to refer to someone That sends the signal to the listener that with them, and you are prioritizing someone with respect. To me that feels kind of shitty. If your goal is to show your commitment to of your relationship with the listener, then I generally fall on the side of audience design actually talking with, and in some cases this understand rather than the pronouns the absent You may disagree about what the tradeoff is If it's clear it's not malice, I'm definitely to say, rather than what they actually do Things are rarely black and white, and we in ways that respect each other. I guess another way to say things aren't things aren't...binary? One thing is for sure: arguing with people always a waste of time, and having to defend And to make things worse, the entire discussion biology, sociology, and culture, and the places So everybody should maybe just take a few Not everybody has to agree. The problem is when this goes from abstract people's rights away, or threatening them And part of why I wanted to make this video people are saying about pronouns is wrong, It's about societal acceptance of different it's about the tension between self-determination: self determination: I choose how I speak and on me. Socially and politically I work to expand rights, and in my work life, I work to help of differences. Personally, I'm working on navigating that trying to just accept people where they are: click for me because it's upsetting when Especially when it's only a theoretical the other person, it's their life. In some cases, it's related to a struggle But also, if that means recognizing that someone's but is approaching an interaction out of mutual Gotta live with that tension. To quote Gene Kelly, I've had one motto Always dignity. I promised this one would be spicy, and I'd and who gets to decide how we refer to one If you like what I'm doing with the channel, I want to give a big thanks to all of my patrons Sarah Shaw Tatoun, blake, Dillon, Hartwig, Hayter, and special thanks to my VIP Patrons Until next time, be excellent to each other.