On August 19, 2020, Russian politician, Alexei He was in Siberia. One of the many places where, in about 3 weeks, But he wasn't running for office. He was urging people to vote out the ruling Vladimir Putin. He's made many videos like this before and It's this ability to reach people via the face of Russia's opposition movement. Soon after making his case in Siberia, he But the plane was suddenly diverted to Omsk. Navalny had been poisoned. And collapsed on the plane. An investigation later revealed that he had nerve agent, that was developed by the Soviet It was also used, likely by Russia in 2018 Navalny survived the assassination attempt history. So how did he do it? And why is he such a big threat to Putin? On December 31, 1999, Putin became the President The Soviet Union had collapsed just 8 years slowly transitioning to democracy. Previously, Putin had been a spy in the Soviet Roles that shaped how he wanted to govern So, he was trying to remake Russia in the image Like if everything in the world could be as KGB, it would work well. So in order to maximize his control, Putin elements in Russia. Starting with the media. Police were sent into Russia's independent bringing newsrooms under state control. After federal television, it went on to regional It was like a flesh eating machine. Whatever it could see that was functioning This hid Putin's actions from the public element - Russia's elections. His regime manipulated who could run for office. And that typically meant Putin's party and This was designed to splinter the opposition And on top of that, The vote counting is rigged. Meaning that it was nearly impossible to run And that United Russia had control of the But politicians weren't the only threat He also went after Russia's oligarchs and critics. In the early 2000s, most of Russia's wealth powerful men. Putin protected those that swore loyalty to And those who didn't were either arrested So, the most common way to get rid of somebody. Is to bring them up on embezzlement charges. Former Russian oil tycoon, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Russian tycoon, Boris Berezovsky, convicted A former Russian business man, he was accused cause of death is still unexplained. That's how the judiciary is weaponized. With the law on his side, within a decade, elements on all sides. And it was all held together by corruption. Corruption is a structural feature of the It's not an inefficiency of the regime. It's not a drag on the regime. It's the core of the regime. According to a report, over $400 billion were and 2008. But because Putin controlled the media, much Until a young lawyer named Alexei Navalny In 2006, Navalny started a blog where he wrote In 2010, he wrote that at least $4 billion company, Transneft. And he had proof. He had bought stock in the company and was that plainly showed how government money was by Transneft officials. And this was just the beginning. Navalny soon published investigations on corrupt banks by Russian oligarchs and politicians. By posting straight to his blog, Navalny was and expose Putin's regime in a way that All the while making a name for himself. Like he thought that corruption was That that you could learn about it, you could And, again, you could take it seriously. And I said, you know what? I think we now have an actual politician in In 2011, huge protests erupted when Putin's reports of voter fraud. It was the largest wave of demonstrations And Navalny was one of the main organizers. He was building on his investigations by speaking State television ignored the protests even and went after the organizers. One of the other ones was jailed, several Boris Nemstov. And Navalny was the last guy standing. Over time, he developed a talent for organizing Then in 2013, he ran for mayor of Moscow. And it stirred some controversy. He had participated in Russian nationalist And used ethnic slurs when referring to Russian But people were still drawn to the main message State TV didn't give his campaign any airtime, and an army of volunteers to spread the word. But, just as he was gaining momentum, police and sentenced him to 5 years in jail. His supporters flooded the streets in protest. Navalny was eventually released on bail and But, he went on to finish second place. He continued to expose corruption through Like this one, in 2017, on the extreme wealth It reached millions and sparked another round At the same time, Navalny was running for This time, against Putin for President. Predictably, the regime struck back and disqualified Further revealing just how rigged Russia's But in 2020, Navalny found a way to take on He called it Smart-Voting. Instead of letting the opposition vote splinter one candidate and urged people to vote for Putin's regime. It takes an incredible amount of public trust unify behind a meaningless candidate. But, its true, if you get enough people to do it, it And it terrifies the Kremlin. During that time, Navalny was the second most to some polls. While Putin's favorability ratings were That made Navalny a threat. And it explains why he was poisoned, possibly Once he was very weirdly ill and once his They were looking for an opportunity, a place almost perfect. But I think they did expect that they would be After the Siberia attack, Navalny recovered survived. A few months later, he went back to his investigations. In December 2020, he tricked the secret agent it. Then, in January, he returned to Russia knowing Police met him at the airport, and charged embezzlement case. While detained, his team released another It's been viewed over 100 million times. His supporters flooded the streets in over A few days later, Navalny was sentenced to more protests. Police have arrested more than 5,000 people Even though Navalny ended up in prison again, streets. By exposing Putin's regime for a decade, Navalny that could outlast his freedom.