In 1996, North America was introduced to But it wasn't just any Mario game. It was a role-playing game. Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. It seemed like an odd idea. Mario in an RPG setting? Mario had been in a lot of different genres. Puzzle games, sports, kart racers, edutainment. But an RPG might have been when it came to the Italian plumber. But Super Mario RPG was a hit, and it's considered not only one but also one of the best RPGs ever made. In Business Insider's list of Super Mario RPG is ranked #9. IGN placed it at #10 on it's Top Notable JRPG fan and Kotaku writer Jason Schreier lists the game as one of his &quot;JRPGs You Must Play.&quot; Super Mario RPG was the result of Square and Nintendo collaborating during their prime. Together, they created something very special. Super Mario RPG is filled with memorable characters, a unique battle system, hilarious dialogue, fun side quests, pleasant visuals and unforgettable moments. Let's take a look at this classic title and the impact it left on gamers and the industry. Video game developer Square was known most notably their Final Fantasy series. Electronic Gaming Monthly Square's games sold well in Japan However, sales in the Western market In late 1992, following disappointing sales Square created a simplified with Final Fantasy Mystic Quest. But people didn't bite. The game only sold about 400,000 copies. Two years later, Final Fantasy VI, or Final Fantasy III in North America, sold more than 2.5 million units making it their best selling Critics heaped praise on the game, calling it &quot;the greatest RPG of all time&quot; and &quot;a must-own for Super Nintendo fans.&quot; But once again, sales in the Western Square needed to break through in the West. It was a challenge they So they sought the help of the most While Square struggled in the Western market, Their Super Nintendo console was Children recognized their flagship mascot, Mario, more often than Mickey Mouse. Super Mario World sold more than 20 million units. Even spinoff games like selling over 8 million copies. Mario seemed invincible. Shigeru Miyamoto, Nintendo's most well-known was eager to try the Italian including RPGs. So in 1994, when Square approached Nintendo Miyamoto was interested. He was a fan of the company and their work. During the pitch meeting at Square headquarters, Square presented Miyamoto and his staff with a picture of a caped Mario It made sense, considering the source. Most of Square's role-playing games But Miyamoto gave them a puzzled He mentioned Mario might have The two companies had intense story and setting. Eventually, they agreed to make the game, their first collaborative project with each other. Square began development in the Summer of 1994. Nintendo pitched in with creative consulting to ensure the game had the Nintendo and Mario flair. Director duties were given to and Chihiro Fujioka. Fujioka previously worked on Squares first attempt to appeal to Western audiences. He recalled the relationship &quot;very close and favorable.&quot; Shigeru Miyamoto would as well as provide suggestions on gameplay . Fujioka said that Miyamoto had two One was to, quote, &quot;Keep an eye on without destroying the Mario universe.&quot; The other was to make the game fun. At first, Super Mario RPG looked a top-down view with 2D sprites. Square perfected this look, pushing the limitations of what the But after seeing Rare and Square was eager to try something new: pre-rendered graphics. They shifted from the 2D perspective This required some extra hardware power to work, so Nintendo suggested they The SA1 chip had four times the processing and faster RAM. This allowed quicker calculations to render the graphics and show more characters on-screen. Square developed the look using the that Rare used to make Donkey Kong Country. By the Summer of 1995, but they couldn't decide whether to or his signature hammer and jump moves. According to director Chihero Fujioka, he and Miyamoto confirmed their where they unveiled the game Fujioka asked the audience to Mario fighting with swords and magic or hammers and jumps. The audience overwhelmingly chose the latter. With the game nearing completion, a beta build arrived at the Nintendo It took the staff by surprise. A few thought it was a silly idea and were surprised by the RPG battle system menus. In the November 1995 issue of Nintendo Power, one writer commented, When it came time to translate the game for the West, notable Square localizer Ted Woolsey, known for his translations of got the job. Since their offices were down Nintendo's product analysis team to make corrections and ensure the game had that signature Nintendo personality. In 1996 the world finally got to play what would become a classic Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. It was released on March 9, 1996 in Japan and May 13, 1996 in North America. In Japan, the game came with or about $37 off, the purchase of a Super Famicom system. This was perhaps an effort by Nintendo to sell through back-stock of consoles before the release of the Nintendo 64. Unfortunately, Europe would not Nintendo software analyst Jim Wornell was nixed for several reasons: the time it would take to do another translation, the added cost of the SA1 chip and low projected sales all factored into the decision. Super Mario RPG was released just at the height of the Super Nintendo's popularity. For many gamers, including myself, it was a great holdover until the Nintendo 64. Plus, it was new Mario game. We had to get our hands on it. However, I don't think anyone anticipated just how popular and impactful it would become. Super Mario RPG begins just Princess Toadstool has been kidnapped by Bowser, and you have to rescue her. But during the fight between Mario and Bowser, a giant sword falls out of the sky and crashes into Bowser's castle, scattering everyone into different directions. Mario soon learns that this is who have not only taken over the world, but destroyed Star Road which helps grant people's wishes. Mario and the gang must recover seven star pieces to rebuild Star Road and defeat Smithy. Along the way, Mario meets new There's Mallow, a cloud who A star spirit who takes the Even Princess Toadstool and Bowser join your party. There's also a ton of memorable that you will meet along the way. One of my favorite parts of Super Mario RPG has always been the characters and their interactions. Some of the lines are great, and the character expressions are very impressive for a 16-bit tilte. It's a very funny game. According to director Chihiro Fujioka, many of the staff members who worked on the game were fans of standup comedy. It's also a gorgeous game. There is no doubt that Super Mario RPG is one of the best-looking Square was definitely stepping but it paid off. Everything is bright and colorful, and the isometric view works Gameplay is a mix of traditional RPG and action RPG. There's menus, items, equipment, hit points, experience, battle commands, etc., all staples of a traditional But the battle system incorporates a timing mechanic when attacking and defending. If you time it right, you can hit to deal extra damage, or hit the B button while According to director Yoshihiko Maekawa, this unique battle system was inspired by a Japanese children's toy. He said: Square also incorporated what's a Mario game without some platforming? There are hidden treasure chests, coins to collect, and obstacles that Mario must Instead of random battles, enemies appear on-screen. There are also minigames Yoshi races, a mine cart maze, running on barrels down a river, collecting coins in a waterfall, and many more. The soundtrack, a combination of remixed was composed by Yoko Shimomura. She had previously worked for Capcom, where she composed the soundtrack to When she wanted to pursue more classical style music, she left Capcom for Square. Shimormua considers Super Mario RPG a turning point in her career. Nintendo and Square did a great job ensuring the player felt like Everything you would expect is here. Goombas, Toad, flowers, mushrooms, warp pipes and Hammer Brothers. Nintendo even threw in a few Square threw in a few as well, most notably Culex, an optional boss that wouldn't be out of place in a Final Fantasy game. It's amazing what Square and Nintendo were able to fit in this whopping 32 megabit cartridge. Upon its release, Super Mario RPG: received rave reviews. GamePro magazine gave it a &quot;Once you pick this one up, you're hooked!&quot; Electronic Gaming Monthly was similarly impressed, calling it &quot;a masterpiece.&quot; Super Mario RPG combines the role-playing elements of Final Fantasy with the world of Mario flawlessly. The game was a commercial success as well. More than 2 million units were sold at a retail price of $75. Square was ecstatic about the numbers. Yusuke Hirata, one of the producers, said that the series would likely continue on Nintendo's upcoming However, those hopes were dashed when Nintendo and Square had a falling out. Due to Nintendo's insistence on Square shifted its focus to for more artistic freedom. This essentially eliminated Although Square was out of the picture, Nintendo still went forward with the idea. They teamed up with Intelligent Systems Super Mario RPG 2. Possibly due to legal issues with Square, they renamed the game Paper Mario. Released on the Nintendo 64, the game borrowed several mainly the action timing-based battle system and the humorous dialogue and plot. But Nintendo was able to make with its unique paper book visual style. It became its own popular franchise and is still around today. But believe it or not, there is in the form of the Mario &amp; Luigi series. Once again, the game series borrows as well as the humor. The handheld series of games a company with many former Square employees. One of them is Chihiro Fujioka, the director of Super Mario RPG. Music for the series is composed by Even with two spiritual successors, fans still clamor for a true However, Square Enix holds so it would take some licensing and legal hurdles to make something happen. There are a few references to the game in other titles. Geno makes an appearance in and as a Mii Fighter costume in Super Smash Bros. But that's about it. In 2008, Europeans were finally able to play the game when Nintendo released Super Mario RPG on the Virtual Console. Super Mario RPG left quite an impact. For many fans of the Mario series, it was their introduction to the RPG, and it made them permanent fans of the genre. It was also Square's big break in the Western market. Super Mario RPG outsold on the Super Nintendo, and helped them see what works Super Mario RPG is a classic. If you don't already have it on Super Nintendo, it's readily available on Nintendo's We may never see a true sequel to the game. But sometimes... it's best to go out on top. That's all for this episode Thanks for watching! (electronic music) - [Voiceover] Funding for by supporters on Patreon. Hey, everybody! Just a quick reminder. There's still time to pre-order The Blu-ray has 16 classic episodes, plus five hours of exclusive content. So click the link to the right to order your copy today.