So, 2014 was a big year for me. Do you ever have that, just like a big year, like a banner year? For me, it went like this: October 3, I lost my second pregnancy. And then October 8, my dad died of cancer. And then on November 25, after three years which is just a fancy word So, I'm fun. (Laughter) People love to invite me out all the time. Packed social life. Usually, when I talk the reaction I get is essentially: (Sighs) &quot;I can't -- I can't imagine.&quot; But I do think you can. I think you can. And I think that you should because, someday, Maybe not these specific losses but like I said, I'm very fun and the research everyone you love has (Laughter) And that's why you came to TED. (Laughter) (Applause) So, since all of this loss happened, I've made it a career not just my own, but the losses and tragedies It's a niche, I have to say. (Laughter) It's a small niche, (Laughter) I've written some very uplifting books, host a very uplifting podcast, I'm just trying to do what I can to make more people comfortable and grief is so uncomfortable. It's so uncomfortable, So part of that work is this group who is also a widow; we call it the Hot Young Widows Club. (Laughter) And it's real, we have membership cards and T-shirts. And when your person dies, literally don't care if you were married, your friends and your family through friends of friends until they find someone and then they'll push you so you can talk amongst yourselves (Laughter) So that's what we do. It's just a series of small groups, where men, women, gay, straight, can talk about their dead person, and say the things that the other people in their lives Huge range of conversations. Like, &quot;My husband died two weeks ago, I can't stop thinking Yeah. &quot;What if it's one Less normal, but I'll accept it. (Laughter) Things like, &quot;Look, when I'm out in public couples who have clearly and then I look at them and I imagine all of the things they've been the good things, the bad things, the arguments they've had I just find my heart filled with rage.&quot; (Laughter) And that example is personal to me. Most of the conversations can and will just stay amongst ourselves, but there are things that we talk about that the rest of the world -- but not yet grief-stricken -- could really benefit from hearing. And if you can't tell, I'm only interested in / capable so what I did was go to and say, &quot;Hello, friends, remember &quot;Do you remember all the things &quot;Oh, yeah.&quot; &quot;Which ones did you hate the most?&quot; I got a lot of comments, lot of answers, but two rose to the top pretty quickly. &quot;Moving on.&quot; Now, since 2014, I will tell you I have remarried we have four children we live in the suburbs We have a rescue dog. (Laughter) I drive a minivan, like the kind where doors open (Laughter) Like, by any &quot;mezhure,&quot; life is good. I've also never said &quot;mezhure,&quot; (Laughter) I don't know where that came from. (Laughter) I've never heard It looks like it should be said that way, and that's why the English (Laughter) So impressed with anyone in addition to a language (Laughter) But by any measure ... (Laughter) By any measure, life is really, I haven't moved on, and I understand why other people do. Because what it says is that Aaron's life and death that I can leave behind me -- And when I talk about Aaron, and I've always thought And then I noticed that everybody does it. And it's not because we are in denial it's because the people are still so present for us. So, when I say, &quot;Oh, Aaron is ...&quot; It's because Aaron still is. And it's not in the way which was much better, and it's not in the way that churchy It's just that he's indelible, and so he is present for me. Here, he's present for me in the work that I do, in the child that we had together, in these three other children I'm raising, who never met him, but who are only in my life and because I lost Aaron. He's present in my marriage to Matthew, because Aaron's life and love and death made me the person So I've not moved on from Aaron, I've moved forward with him. (Applause) We spread Aaron's ashes and when the bag was empty -- because when you're cremated, there were still ashes And I could have just put my hands but instead, I licked my hands clean, because I was so afraid of losing more and I was so desperate to make sure But of course he would be. Because when you watch your person just so he can stay alive that stays with you. When you watch him fade from the healthy to nothing, that stays with you. When you watch your son, walk up to his father's bed like he knows what's coming and say, &quot;I love you. All done. Bye, bye.&quot; That stays with you. Just like when you fall in love, with someone who gets you and sees you and you even see, &quot;Oh, my God, Love is not a contest it's this invisible thread of calm even when everything is chaos, when things are falling apart, That stays with you. We used to do this thing -- because my hands are always where I would take my ice-cold hands press them against his hot bod. (Laughter) And he hated it so much, (Laughter) but he loved me, and after he died, and I put my hands underneath him and I felt his warmth. And I can't even tell you but I can tell you that I knew it was the last time And that that memory That memory will always hurt. Even when I'm 600 years old (Laughter) Just like the memory of meeting him Grief doesn't happen in this vacuum, it happens alongside of and mixed in So, I met Matthew, my current husband -- who doesn't love that title, (Laughter) but it's so accurate. (Laughter) I met Matthew, and ... there was this audible sigh of relief like, &quot;It's over! She did it. She got a happy ending, And we did good.&quot; And that narrative and I thought maybe I got another chapter. And it's such a good chapter -- it's such a good chapter. But especially at the beginning, or one of those old &quot;choose your where there are two parallel plot lines. So I opened my heart to Matthew, and my brain was like, Like, the past, the present, future, And all of a sudden, and falling in love with Matthew of what I lost when Aaron died. And just as importantly, it helped me realize and my grief for Aaron, and my love for Matthew, They are just strands to the same thread. They're the same stuff. I'm ... what would my parents say? I'm not special. (Laughter) They had four kids, (Laughter) But I'm not, I'm not special. I know that, I'm fully aware that all day, every day, terrible things are happening. All the time. Like I said, fun person. But terrible things are happening, people are experiencing deeply formative And as part of my job, this weird podcast that I have, I sometimes talk to people about the worst thing And sometimes, that's the loss sometimes days ago or weeks ago, And these people that I interview, they haven't closed themselves and made it the center of their lives. They've lived, their worlds But they're talking to me, about the person they love who has died, because these are the experiences that mark us and make us And just as permanently. Long after you get your last sympathy card or your last hot dish. Like, we don't look experiencing life's joys and wonders We don't send a card that's like, and then, five years later, think like, (Laughter) Yeah, we get it, he's five. (Laughter) Wow. (Laughter) But grief is kind of one of those things, like, falling in love or having a baby where you don't get it And once you do it, once it's your grief you get it. You understand what you're experiencing it's not a bone that will reset, but that you've been touched Something incurable. It's not fatal, but sometimes And if we can't prevent it in one another, what can we do? What can we do other than try that some things can't be fixed, and not all wounds are meant to heal? We need each other to remember, to help each other remember, that grief is this multitasking emotion. That you can and will be sad, and happy; in the same year or week, the same breath. We need to remember that a grieving person If they're lucky, But yes, absolutely, But that doesn't mean Thank you. (Applause)