Language YouTube is obsessed with one man. Video after video praises Stephen krayshen, It's the best way to learn a language. It's the ONLY way to learn a language. Throw away your textbooks, forget about grammar, But is everybody getting his theory wrong? SORT OF. I'll explain why it's a little more complicated actually is, and what we can still learn from I'm Dr. Taylor Jones, and this is Language I've seen people say that Chomsky is wrong their intellectual allegiance to Krashen, and get along with Noam Chomsky, not only his theories are within a chomskyan framework. What you're likely to see on YouTube is is a sufficiently large quantity of engaging, Comprehensible means that you can figure it Ideally, that there's only one new word can get from context. And Input is just your target language. By this interpretation, the only thing you starting simple and getting more complex, video, and ideally with native audio. But that's not exactly what Krashen meant, addresses the fact that THAT SOMETIMES DOESN'T So let's get into what his theory actually whether we can make it work for us. His writing covers not just the Comprehensible hypotheses. If one proves wrong, it might destabilize And notice, they're hypotheses! These need to be operationalized and tested. He's working within a chomskyan, generative the first hypothesis. But I'm getting ahead of myself. What are the five components? They are: 1. Learning vs acquiring (Linguistic) monitor Natural order Comrpehensible input Affective filter Stick around to the end and I'll add two Krashen's theory, even Krashen himself, So the five components. First is the hypothesis, or really assumption, and acquiring a language. Learning is explicit, taught, and consciously Acquisition, on the other hand, is what children They are not explicitly taught, say, how to in the correct grammatical frameworks with start to produce language we would consider never heard the exact sentences or sentence That is, there appears to be a developmental simply start using finite grammatical structures in orders we would consider grammatical. Where Krashen argues with Chomsky is the Critical There's a fair amount of evidence that if they will never attain native-like fluency But It's really hard and more than a little of confounds, and basically Krashen just disagrees. He has stated over and over that he doesn't we age, even past 25, when the prefrontal neuroplasticity (on average). I'd like to acquire 100,000 subscribers, Brutal Segue. His second hypothesis is that of the linguistic This is similar to Bill Labov's "sociolinguistic in grad school). The idea of the sociolinguistic monitor, put others will perceive as more "correct" have a lot of cognitive resources to put toward He phrases it differently because the neuroscience this. This is why sociolinguists will do reading getting into questions like "tell me about Our job is, in part, to get people so worked out because they're no longer monitoring Krashen's linguistic monitor is similar. He argues that we have a store of our target that what we have LEARNED merely functions to correct what we intuitively generate. We'll come back to what happens when we're So I might KNOW, in a declarative sense, that parts of a future conditional -- I will speak "I will speak French when I am in France." But I might only be able to generate such and I'm likely to produce a grammatical of sentences that use that structure correctly His third hypothesis is about natural order There are some really fascinating patterns cross-linguistically basically the same. Things like saying "I no like it" first, imperatives first, then in sentences like And only much alter being able to consistently clauses, or conditionals or so on. This is a topic that deserves its own video, For a long time, it has been known in the in general, non-native learners' interlanguage learning it -- follows the same, evidently This goes for everything from negation to to how questions are formed. Krashen hypothesizes that this order of acquisition which mirrors that of children leanring their So why bother starting with declarative explanations experimental evidence learners will likely Especially if these patterns are basically That is, that's the hypothesis. It's not settled fact, but the experimental His fourth, FOURTH hypothesis is what people That is: if you accept the hypotheses -- and we do not learn, we acquire, and that there to acquire that is biologically innate, and we have acquired and what we have learned last check on the acquired language that wells there is a natural order to acquisition, such exposed to the language in, THEN he HYPOTHESIZES a volume as possible of "comprehensible Input just means your target language. Comprehensible, in this case, means that you He sometimes calls it "i+1": This can don't know, or a new grammatical construction you know context and it's using all words It's not always clear whether he endorses implicitly endorsing an immersion methodology. The key is also once you have your "i repetitions of that, to acquire it. So it's not just chasing the dopamine hit Lastly, there's ANOTHER hypothesis. I promised I'd get back to cognitive load. He calls it the "affective filter." The idea is that if you are experiencing negative this is harder. This is REQUIRED in his system, because there on their own, DON'T ALWAYS WORK. So his theory is that people get stressed, about language learning, and it shuts down This is the principle Michel Thomas built It's probably correct in some sense, in by cognitive strain. But notice, this is necessary because even are correct, and do everything that assumption in their target languages. So the AFFECT FILTER is a way of explaining input fails to produce a language learner There are a lot of videos on YouTube that input" is all you need, but they're leaving A ton of content, even if it is engaging, figure it out from context, does not always engage with a wide range of uses of their and "correct" language. There is also an entire world of Second Language of research points toward empirical support practices, like training active recall, "desirable There's two more points I think are really let me know if you want a breakdown of Chomksy's community gets wrong about it. Assumign I can fit ALL of that into one video. Ok so there's another thing I haven't Krashen recommends a massive amount of reading Specifically reading, although he does like But this doesn't necessarily work for everything. I'm incredibly excited to have found this VOWELS. But the majority of the reading material I have vowels. This makes leisure reading for continued exposure task. Plus, how many people read Hebrew, specifically, saying? Lastly, I have a bit of a tangent that I also statements in an interview with hyperpolyglot Now, I'm not a medical professional, and not a diagnosis (great start, I know). But --for REASONS -- I have been doing a so to speak, and a story he tells about his For those of you who watch my live streams, other factors might play into language learning Anyway, he discusses being aimless in life, anything, and says that while in Ethiopia, a double dose of Ethiopian coffee. The hardcore stuff. And he describes it as scales falling from "is this how everyone feels?" And from that point on he was addicted to he was interested in, and pursue his life's I, again, am not an expert, but this sounds in discussing undiagnosed ADHDers self medicating And if we posit that Dr. Krashen might be descibe myself, or even across the tracks, of his method, especially for him. Rather than following the grammar-translation and requires a ton of motivation and executive the language without rigid structure, with in the language as possible at a level that sound IDEAL for the add language learner. So regardless whether Dr. Krashen has or had for in the form of coffee, he came up with much more effective for those among us who And it's almost diametrically opposite to Academic linguistics seems to select for Autism but that's another video for another day. The point being, hyperfocus on structural and massive amounts of undirected input, allowing getting constant little dopamine hits might So what's the verdict on comprehensible Well, honestly, the academic jury is still Youtuber contingent. Part of that is because acquisition versus still not fully settled science, and the linguistic But it's clear that exposure to a large that you can engage meaningfully with is better But it may still be the case that analyzing work -- things like active recall, and self-assessment, to a native speaker -- are probably beneficial further. However, if we take neurodivergence into account, to play to the strengths and minimize the you, maybe prioritize input over everything Leave me a comment and let me know what's You can support the channel by becoming a Shout out to all my patrons. If you liked this video, I'm sure you're Until next time, happy learning!