Today I am talking about boundaries. Now many of you and said that you to put up healthy boundaries with people in your life. Now, why do we Many of us have who treat us poorly, they talk down to us, they boss us around or can be really rude And we have really struggled to find a way So today I am going five steps on how to (introduction music playing) There may have been when we were too young, or we didn't really have And therefore we had but to let people treat us in an undesirable way. But now, we are grownups. Even if we are teens, we are still adult enough to teach people Now, one of the things is that we are reinforcing some of this Let's give an example: So let's say we have who's really bossy, and they are and they keep asking for things, Until, we're exhausted, we don't want to and we give in, and they get their way. Now you can see because they got really aggressive And who would have even thought that was really reinforcing this &quot;bad boundary&quot; or &quot;undesirable behavior&quot;, but it really is. The first step to teaching is noticing these times where we may be reinforcing Because we often don't So if we can take time, and pay attention we may say &quot;yes&quot; when Someone is just really pushy, so we always just let them Start recognizing when because that is where Step 2: is knowing that you have the right to if they are speaking to you rudely. I find may of my clients, feeling like I have to or I forced, to have to Or, to stay on the phone while someone is just making But, you know what? We have the right to walk away. Recognizing that power, to self respect. Which is really It's the core of and what we believe And it's from that that we can teach others The third step is knowing always, to say no, if If it is way out of our way If it is really inconvenient and just pick up that thing for someone. We can say no. And recognizing that we have that right, it doesn't make us a jerk, it doesn't make us selfish, It doesn't mean that we are so rude It means that we recognize what is convenient and And when things don't make sense, we have the right to say no, at anytime. The fourth step is recognizing that we, have the insight, and, we have realized relationships really feel icky and we are able to Now, I know for many of you, you may live at home, I have had many messages &quot;But what if my parents and &quot;what if they're the ones We still have the ability In certain situations, that we are not around them. Or we are not or we are not available to talk about this that we don't want involved in. We can still in certain situations so we So that we don't these unhealthy relationships, where people try to share our privacy may be very rigid This helps give us the power &quot;You know what? I am not &quot;I'm busy.&quot; &quot;Oh you want to talk?, I will be back later.&quot; We have the ability to do that. The fifth and most on teaching other people is sticking with it. If you ever get detered, if you find yourself feeling &quot;I know they're going to hate me!&quot; &quot;I am never going to have any friends, Think to yourself, is it more important that other or that I like me? Oftentimes I find that we for affirmation to build our self esteem, so that we feel good about and we forget about our And that's where true compassion, true love, true life comes from, is self respect. Respecting who you are, recognizing your strengths, and taking time to notice those, A lot of what I talk about is just us going inside to figure out what is Who we are. Why do we love ourselves? And if we don't find anything we're like, &quot;I don't That's where you need to start. It's taking time to recognize whats so wonderful and great Because everyone has those things! Once we begin this process, Because I will tell you this, You're worth it! I hope that this video and tools to better I am wishing each and every one of you a happy and healthy holidays! Don't forget to subscribe Just because it's the holidays I put out videos five days a week, and you don't want to miss them! If you like this video make sure If you haven't checked out: there are some great things I have even updated my shop. I have shirts, tank tops, anything that you might be looking for during the holidays. (video fades, plays clip of some self care, if you have time take the 10 minutes out of and I think you will And like I said we are always not only towards a healthy mind... (video fades out) Subtitles by the Amara.org community