the overall goal of a recirculating aquaculture and have greater control over the environmental consider when maintaining a healthy recirculating A healthy recirculating aquaculture system, Concepts to be in place in order to function water treatment, oxygenation, feeding, biosecurity, water quality management, recirculating aquaculture systems which means that water quality is of the be carefully monitored and controlled in order For water treatment, it is critical for removing water quality. In RAS this can be achieved or mechanical processes. In order for a healthy which are essential for the health and survival Oxygen can be introduced into water through a variety of ways ,through aeration with air stones, oxygen diffusers, or by liquid oxygen. Proper fish. In a recirculating aquaculture system fish nutritional needs and the amount of feed should which impacts our water quality. As for biosecurity, introduction of disease and parasites. This can be of quarantine systems, using disinfection other preventative measures such as sterilizing is necessary to ensure that the system is are in good working order. This is a daily, weekly, replacing filters, monitoring your oxygen levels, Basically in recirculating aquaculture systems and renovate water for the culture of aquatic many times does a full volume of water in my So here's an example I've created to demonstrate. four complete exchanges per hour, which turns out to flow through that tank. That means I have of 67 gallons per minute to that tank to achieve about what type of aquaculture system to choose aquaculture systems that differ in the way that loop or closed recirculating aquaculture system aquaculture system. Closed RAS are completely circulation system. In this system no water is a closed recirculating aquaculture system highly over water quality and the conditions within the can be more expensive to set up and maintain and technologies to renovate that water. So in a see a volumetric exchange per day of anywhere that two to ten percent of that water is removed from the system. A lot of times I'll hear folks systems. The reality is is that type of talk is your solids which is also greater than 90 water semi-close recirculating aquaculture systems on the external environment this usually occurs daily circulated within the system but some of it is external source. This can help to maintain water the system. Semi-closed RAS are generally less system but as I mentioned they tend to allow for they also tend to utilize a lot more water. that operate around 80 percent with recycled can change during the year, say in the summer when down to make our fish more comfortable. Then we may temps and rain we tend to exchange significantly complete 100 percent new water exchange over a few 20 times before needing to do a complete renewal. a recirculating aquaculture system, as it plays a what are some of the factors in RAS that could type of fish you are rearing, the stocking density of the tank at which you're using. Are you using Tank dimensions and flow of water all affect how of filtration technology selected also impact your and to capture solid waste, but the biggest factor, impact on your water quality. When talking about those include the size of the feed, the type of the of that feed and where binders included during manufacturer feed? So without a doubt, feeding is the biggest factor that impacts water quality. we are mostly concerned about? Well the first one that is produced as a byproduct of fish metabolism High levels of ammonia are toxic to fish and it's in the recirculating aquaculture system. The compound that is produced by the subsequent High levels of nitrite can also be toxic to to monitor and control the nitrite levels Another product that is produced by the further toxic compound than ammonia and nitrite and is High levels of nitrates can still be harmful to but generally unless you're just completely your fish. A water quality parameter of critical should be kept within a certain range in order pH is a measure of the acidity or the basicity pH requirements. I think I made a word up. I produced and explain the role of pH on ammonia speciation is the blue bars the ammonia is more toxic than towards the pH of 14, the yellow bars. ammonia parameter is temperature. The water in RAS to maintain a healthy environment for your fish. requirements and it's important to maintain the that are being raised, especially if you're rates in commercial systems. Another critically levels are essential for the health and survival Oxygen levels should be monitored and maintained you're producing, the temperature of the water, and This is a good time to mention that bacteria are aquaculture system. The negative effects of may think you're just providing oxygen for your health of the entire system that includes your products and they could harbor and cause disease that they drive the entire system and are what of think about this like the flux capacitor of the Bacteria in recirculating aquaculture systems are to be thinking about in terms of bacteria and is that anaerobic bacteria are bacteria that can be harmful in RAS because they can produce to fish and other aquatic organisms. Additionally lead to low dissolved oxygen levels in the water bacteria can negatively impact RAS by producing if it builds up to high levels in the water , which sulfide is produced when anaerobic bacteria break You usually know when parameters are way off as this rotten eggs. Another way that anaerobic bacteria acids such as acetic acids and propionic acid, more acidic environment, that may be harmful to the ammonia species. Aerobic nitrifying bacteria on the the RAS systems possible. Aerobic bacteria are also your water buffering salts which is reducing your just another reason why oxygen levels should example the bacteria that converts ionized two milligrams per liter of dissolved oxygen to that convert the nitrite to less toxic nitrate of dissolved oxygen which further reinforces the aquacultural system that supports both your the key concepts for a healthy recirculating how these considerations fit within the overall which you'll want to watch next which discusses filtration, gas stripping, and oxygenation and a healthy recirculating aquaculture system.