I'm aboard a ship that performs the operations in the entire US Navy. It has a massive flight deck, See, aircraft carriers deal with problems from far away by launching aircraft, but amphibious ships deal with crises face to face by putting Of course, the flight deck of an aircraft most dangerous places to work. But when it comes to amphibious ships have no rivals. They're the only platform that navy sailors and Marines. They are also the only ships that operate which makes amphibious operations extremely sensitive to weather conditions. In fact, they have eleven people on the and forecast the weather. And if you still remain unconvinced, Within just 6 hours of receiving an order, an amphibious ship must be ready to Unit for a mission. For an aircraft carrier, But why USS Bataan carries even though it could pretty much ever needing to refuel, why the ship operates AV-8 even though both aircraft can And why if you're good at Tetris, is Not What You Think! If you could park a drone on top you will see the same thing launching and recovering aircraft. Amphibious ships, are a lot more versatile given as well as watercraft. But this versatility comes at a price. Sea conditions can have a significant impact on well deck operations. For example, low tides can turn a bay This means beach landings need to be dont get stuck on the beach for hours until the tides come back. But this is where USS Bataan's eleven Six assistant forecasters deploy devices every hour, and five weather forecasters These predictions are an essential The well deck on USS Bataan is like a This allows certain types of in and out of the well deck. A flooded well deck looks kind So I had to ask the question: Would you ever do a swim call inside the well deck? It's been done before. It's very unsafe though, because when you flood in open space like this, space, you get something called So when the water sloshes around, it bounces off the walls and LCUs are one of the primary watercraft vehicles and cargo to shore. So we can take two LCUs, which is landing craft utility they're actual boats. They need six to 8ft of water in the well deck in order to come in. So we drop the stern and the stern gate and then we can also take LCACs. LCAC or landing craft air cushion ship to shore transportation. Since LCACs can simply hover, the well deck doesn't need LCACs are much faster than LCUs, It may not look like it, but LCUs actually have can sustain a crew of 13 for ten days. Getting an LCU to come into the So when the craft are coming in, the boatswain's mates or the seamen and they throw the lines over to adjust how the craft is coming in. On the other hand, an LCAC can come into the well But it's a very tight entry. There's only about 1ft which is why the craft in case it hits the Another interesting fact about link up inside the well deck. You'll have three LCACs at a time, and their ramps connect, so they're able to have the LCU or LCAC drive across all of the deck up into the storage area. And managing that storage area is a challenge in and of itself. Weighing at 27, Wasp-class ships are the ever be rolled across land. They can also carry a That said, loading all the equipment into but in three dimensions. One dimension is loading everything of all the available space. The second dimension is the order For example, certain equipment needs to be You wouldn't want those things The third dimension has to do Remember, all this equipment adds a significant So it's critical to load everything The planners also need to ensure the cargo for fire protection To play this game of Tetris on the ship, Marines would then pre stage which could take up to a week. Then as soon as the ship everything is loaded The hottest place on USS These flight decks are very interesting... Wow, it's hot! Of course, but when AV-8 Harriers vertically they can make it very hot. In fact, the reason F-35s are not currently the intense heat generated by their But this issue can be resolved like USS Wasp. The flight deck of USS Wasp material called Thermion, which is extremely heat resistant So only certain spots on and those are the only areas damaging the flight deck. There are no catapults and no This is why it exclusively houses the Harriers and Ospreys, which have short takeoff and vertical But it may also carry variants SH-60, Depending on the operation, the ship could carry different For example, the air group can have while in a sea control configuration, USS Bataan carries upwards supported by six SH-60 Seahawk Emergency landings on supercarriers barricade to catch the incoming aircraft. But on USS Bataan, On June 7, Marine Corps captain William Mahoney gear had malfunctioned. Lucky for him, USS Bataan was equipped with a stool So with help from the control tower, the pilot was able to align the the nose dead-center on the stool. It's scenarios like this, that necessitates the need which can help move damaged Right next to the crane, It holds 750 gallons of water and is in case any fires need to be put out. Those on the firefighting duty which is rated for 2000 On a day like this, which is kind of hot, what does it feel like to have It feels like a sweatsuit. Luckily, which makes it easier on hot days. Yeah, I definitely wanted to It was actually more comfortable more expensive than I thought. The jackets and the pants combined, 000. Not a bad look for a $16,000 suit. The hangar bay is where the aircraft needed on the flight deck. Two elevators allow the aircraft deck and the hangar bay... These elevators are huge, so big that in order to the elevators need to be folded in. The hangar bay can also be used to and there are shelves all For example, helicopter blades are stored. Like any other navy ship, firefighting equipment is Sailors do fire drills on a regular the ship's layout and equipment, and also to prepare for That is also what Marines doing drills nonstop, Because the ultimate is its Marines. Marine expeditionary units, are the crisis response and a crisis often This is why it could take as little as in until a MEU has to be ready This short planning window is called R2P2, R2P2 includes organizing and strategizing, deciding which aircraft needs them to the flight deck, figuring out how many marines and what determining the best mode of ship on the weather forecast, and so on. Aircraft carriers, typically operate under a That's because their primary They're often involved which are large scale operations like Desert Storm. What differentiates a MEU from other SEALs or US Army and US Air Forces IRF, is the ability to have air logistics, and command and control in one package, anywhere in the world. The rapid response nature is why ships like USS Bataan through the well deck, which can be very useful. During Operation Iraqi Freedom, The issue was that receiving supplies meant that Bataan had to pause On the other hand, meant that Bataan would be limiting its maneuverability. So they did something that The supply ship first transferred amphibious ship that was nearby... That amphibious ship moved the and loaded them into LCACs. The LCACs then delivered the ammunition which allowed the ship to continue without interruption. Well deck replenishments can also be That's when an LCU and a This allows for quick resupply missions Speaking of replenishment, USS Bataan carries about That's enough for the ship to But that doesn't explain why USS Our FAS 1 station. So FAS is Fueling At Sea, and then we have RAS stations, So, a RAS is when we're taking something from someone else. A FAS is one we're Oh, I did not know that! So we can supply fuel to, a destroyer. They'll just come alongside. We'll connect our rig, A destroyer would typically need But if, an oiler is not available, This giant refueling rig is The US Navy likes to have fun Remember the Broadway on USS New York?.. Well, Can you guess what's behind this door? Well, you're right! The stairway leads to the bridge. So it's relatively small. So this big ship is controlled with this little wheel here. Tiny wheel. Look at this. But this wheel is not the only Yeah, it's amazing... For personnel to navigate There are these plates on They're similar to street signs but only if you know So what do these numbers on the So the first number is up or down. So we're on the zero-two level, This is the frame number. So how far forward and aft you are. This is from centerline if So port is even numbers. Starboard is odd. And then this last one is the type of space. So L means living space. What would be another E for engineering spaces, and W for water storage areas, It could take up to a couple of months way around without using the bullseye. Aircraft carriers are, designed for blue-water operations, which means they operate from as hundreds of miles at sea, whereas amphibious ships are as close as 10 miles out. This means that amphibious ships have to threats that aircraft carriers, too, but also green-water threats This includes things like torpedoes, short range anti ship missiles, Plus, the higher are the chances of which eliminates the element of surprise. To deal with these threats, Harriers might take off from Bataan's which is military lingo Marines may also get help from a particular coordinate. Prior to getting the LCACs a reconnaissance team of four the area using a rubber boat. They look for mines that as well as checking the beach to Even though LCACs hover on the surface, they still exert some which could trigger If needed, an EOD team would first Only once a safe passage Marines would be Of course, instead of doing a surface the target area on Humvees, it might make sense to just do with the help of V-22 Ospreys. Then Huey or Cobra helicopters may while the Marines are brought in. With all this said, since Marines need to be transported proximity to the enemy, the rates of injury can be high. This is why the hospital on USS Bataan than hospitals on aircraft carriers, even though they carry Amphibious ships are also used and disaster relief missions, making larger hospitals a necessity. A Marine Expeditionary Unit has the any point on the enemy's coastline, but this comes at the cost of managing overcoming environmental factors, and facing often heavily The transition from sea to land is since they can be targeted by the enemy. Countering this demands defenses and rapid movement. The need to integrate naval, and land forces under urgent timelines, is why such operations enabled are the most complex... of military endeavors.