- There is no way in (beep) When it comes to storage, everyone knows the rule of 3-2-1. That's three copies of your data across two different media types, with at least one of them kept off-site. But do the LMG staff Acronis sponsored this to their Acronis Cyber so we could find out who the and if their data is really safe, if they're really doing it properly. (upbeat music) - I have two of the 2-TB 2.5 drive, one 4-TB 2.5 drive, one 3.5 external drive for 5-TB. - You said so many numbers cause you were saying This is impossible to like- - Do you have 5-terabyte - [Andy] I have two fives. - Two fives so you have 10 terabytes. - I had a NAS, - It was like a 2-bay one, now I just upgraded to a 4-bay one, add another 12 terabyte in there, so that's like 48 terabyte, but I have one drive that's in Parody. - So that NAS is four 12-TB drives, right? - [Andy] Yeah. - It was mainly for all the photo I took and all the client project or my personal project and screw project. But they're not full right upgraded to the 4-bay drive. Because I just recently upgraded it, so the current setup is the setup I want, but for those external drive, I would really prefer just - So Andy, you had a bunch of He's a Mac user. - [Jake] That's a fun So you're a Mac user, you used to have a like in a dock, right? I'm assuming you're using like a toaster? - So you've sort of been just progressing over the years of, you've got this 2-bay and then you've got another 2-bay- - Progressive awfulness, and then he finally bought a 4-bay. - And then he gets a 4-bay. - And now he's moving everything into it. - No, not really. (laughs) It's like, what's a backup? Those external hard drives, I usually don't plug them in, so they're kind of like a cold backup. - It's not a cold backup, - You gotta keep 'em going all the time. - And you have to check - I will cry and cry hard. - Your backup strategy if you lose it. - He's mean to future Andy, honestly. - This doesn't look like - [Andy] I'm bilingual, okay? - Yes, you are. Wow, that is a very full five-terabyte. - Now that's hoarding. You fill up the whole thing until you have no swap - Alright, A cloud is your NAS right? - [Andy] Yes. - Okay, so you got 31 terabytes usable. Oh my god, all of these external drives! Is there photo? Oh yeah, there is photos. - Oh, I gotta see this. - Wait, a hub you say. Oh my god. - [Dan] Oh it is a toaster! - Yeah, there's the NAS. - Is that a little- - What's that? - Is that 2.5 gig? - Whoa, look at you, does the NAS actually have 2.5 gig? - [Andy] Yep. - [Jake] Okay so you've that are entirely separate now. You've got, oh my god, What the hell. - Those look like inventory items to me. - So they're all just hooked (laughs) What is this Andy? Oh man. - So this is the type of hoarder who's got garbage all over. - He genuinely- I prefer the type of hoarder who takes all their garbage and just puts in one big (beep) off pile in the middle of their living room. - Andy, you have a problem. - [Dan] Yeah, this is a problem. You need to consolidate this. - He's working on it. - Is the plan to take everything - [Andy] Yes, which I did. - Are you going to get - No, then he'll have more space to put stuff back onto them. - [Andy] Then I wouldn't have cold backup. - Think of your kids. - I think he's like a six. - Yeah, but I don't (Jake laughs) - I have just about 23 and then a couple of other terabytes here and there on other drives. - Now we're talking. - It's not super full, cause I mostly use it for game but it's probably like five or So I got this NAS as part it was a old PC that I kind I've actually switched a little bit of what was seen in the video. It's now like a Windows - Gotta love running - I have some backup stuff, so if it's something that I'm or I really don't want to replay, I'll put it to cloud storage. I pay for the extra storage on Google. - I do that too. - You mean, you do things properly? - I would replay all the games, baby. Who needs to deal with your backlog when you can replay the - It sounds like he's using this as a memory bank for all the So yeah, that would be - Especially as it's, you know, high-quality recordings that nobody's probably ever played before. Like, I don't know, Mario, - Castlevania. It could be some of, Mario. - Another thing that I would really change is that it's actually - Oh God. - Yeah. Water and data - It's a NAS, it doesn't need to be. All it really does is NVENC on the GPU. - It's kind of cool. It sounds like his NAS is - I think it's in his encoding - Yeah, it sounds like and the recording, which - Double duty is a good idea, yeah. - Wow. - Is this Taryn's desk? Jesus. This is a roasting - [Dan] You've got a Nintendo 64. (laughs) Sorry. - [David] This is where the magic happens. - That's a lot of game comp. Oh there we go, it is under Wow, look at all those! - [David] This is all my hard drives. - I think under my recommendation, he bought a proper HBA, which is cool, rather than just plugging - That's a good recommendation. - Hold on, this game... - [Dan] For the tension! - Is holding up the - This is so beautifully jag. - The funny thing is, it doesn't look like any water is moving in here. (laughs) - [David] The idea is, I can while recording the footage. So I can do just 17 birds with 1.3 stones. - Pretty controlled chaos, I would say. - This is an extremely but the nice thing is, he's done the garbage But it's not like a garbage pile, this is the type of too many knickknacks and and they've just got crap all over them. And you're like no, I can't throw out this I might like to look at it in five years, not that I'm gonna sell it. - (sigh) And un-water cool it. (chuckles) And if you're not gonna un-water cool it, don't have it sitting on I like it, I'm gonna - This is pleasant, - It's at least contained. - In terms of storage, I have 20 hard drives, roughly - Just 20 hard drives? Holy (beep). - And then there's varying sizes of five, They're all populated Collectively, it's about Then on top of that, I Oh, and then I have a 5-bay NAS populated with eight-terabyte drives. Altogether, it's around 127-ish terabytes. So, I'm kind of old. Back in the day, I shot everything on tape and it made more sense cause hard drives were more expensive, so it made sense just to shoot on the tape and have it on the tape. Degradation wasn't that bad, Before working here, I for about 10 years, and that's - This is hoarding. - Hundreds of terabytes (Dan and Jake laugh) No, we used to also keep because sometimes they'd be like, Oh hey, we didn't actually but we've decided, and We would like to pay you more money, and sometimes it can be a godsend. 127 terabytes is an unnecessary - Is it unnecessary? cause he's not storing Linux ISOs. - Right, right. - He's storing other people's weddings. - Not to throw shade at Drobo, but I kind of wish I - What's Drobo? - Does anybody know what Drobo is? - [Dan] Dropbox? - It was Thunderbolt two and- - They're Mac-specific things. - Oh he didn't even mention, - I went with the Drobo setup, because I had a whole not equal size, and I wanted redundancy and that just was not an - Yeah, if it's just in a pile in the middle of his - [Andy] It's in a couple plastic bins. - Not bags? - So offsite, no. That was something I wanted to look into, but now that I've moved out it isn't really an issue. I think it's only ever come up once, that I needed to get footage - See, I told you it does happen, right. - One time! How many If he's got hundreds of tapes. - I mean, he probably got so that he's never gonna delete any of this. - (chuckles) But TLDR, he should. - Oh yeah, just burn - I mean, it's not that big - He even admits it's not - I'd be sad. - He'd be sad though. - I'd be more upset if I lost which is part of the backing everything up. I actually bought a VCR 2 to back up all of my old VHS It's a damn good VCR 2. Dan's dad helped me fix it. I shouldn't say helped me - Is your dad like a VCR repairman? - Yeah, he ran a shop for years and years. He was one of the first - Replacing VCRs? - That was a liberal Like I mentioned, it could - Half a petabyte! What? - If I really want to convert everything, which I haven't yet, I just didn't want to bring up my pirating prowess background. - I mean, how much does a CD hold? - 735 megabibels. - 100 terabytes times- - (chuckles) I wanna see - 1,000 gigs, so we're talking, half a million gigabytes. You said how many? - You're talking 700,000 CDs. There is no way in (beep) hell you have 700,000 CDs to make up. Okay sorry, let me Let's start with like 380 terabytes. - That's a lot of plastic bags. (laughs) - Times 1,000... - Still a lot! You need a (both laugh) Mark you're Even if I have more data somehow, I don't know if I can compete (Andy laughs) If I had more data, I cause it's just a pure chaos. Look at all these 2-TB- - 200? No, that said gigabyte. Okay, I'm not impressed anymore. That's just called a T7 old hard drive. - It's a five-terabyte, 70-terabyte? - That must be his NAS. - Oh my god wow, he does I like that he 3D-printed Did he buy those? I don't know. - That's a NAS, yeah, that's I don't know. - (chuckles) Oh, that's It's like three bins - That's nice. - I think Mark was misleading - I wanna see the 500 plastic (all laugh) - On my main NAS I have and I'm using just shy As a general rule, I on the individual computers in the house, because that's how you lose data. Oh, absolutely. Right now I have pretty It's basically all mechanical. - That can be okay, like my Unraid setup is purely just hard drives. There is cash drives, but I It's kind of a weird perspective cause he could basically and instead he chose not only hard drives, but they're like the Seagate archive ones so they're shingled drives. Yeah, not great. - I also had some regrets before, because I didn't have to handle transcoding movies while also putting in closed captions, which is apparently like So I got my hands, after Massive shout out Puget Systems, - (chuckles) He's broken. - Okay, my backup story I do have a backup. I don't know exactly where it is and it's super out of I'm not practicing what I preach when it comes to my personal data. But the issue is, I was back it up to the office. - So this is all your fault. - We're gonna fix it, isn't Yeah, we're building a target so I will. - Oh awesome. - So I'm solving it by If I lost everything I actually would. You know what? Oh my God, my backup stuff. I even took home our old but then I ran into some that I was putting it into It's all about the family I have in Google Drive - Right, he uses Plex to back to his NAS and - Has he not heard of like or one of those? - Or like Google Photos... - But it's sporadic, The one place I have definitely, absolutely everything is my NAS. So I wanted to put everything but then I ran into some It's like the mechanic sometimes I don't feel motivated - He would cry, yeah. most people would. You don't wanna lose hundreds of weddings. (both laughing) - Yeah, it's actually pretty... I want this case, damn it! He's the one that has it! - What is the case? - This is a Norco 24-bay case and I've been trying to - That's nice. - They have awful back plates. It's not that nice actually, but it's like a cheap way to do it. It's a pretty sweet setup. - So I guess this answers the question of how much storage you have, It looks like you've got two? - No, that's work's. - That's one. (laughs) - So it looks like you've something like that? - That's pretty impressive. - A rate of 11 devices, - Does your case allow for - No, this is a 12. I haven't touched the drives in my NAS. - So Jake is the first one setting up for- It's not even in the array. - It's not even been detected. - [Jake] So it'd be 104 terabytes, right, and then plus the other - [Dan] He's just trying to beat Mark. - [Jake] So that'd be 112 terabytes. - [Dan] That's pretty good. - And your utilization for a hoarder, I would say. - I'm using like 50 terabytes. - What do you use your main NAS for, besides all the Linux CDs? - There's a few Linux ISOs. I back up all the other which is only two systems, but because I have so - Just rolling backups, - Yeah, I think I have 60 days' worth of backups per system? (laughs) - That's pretty good. - I'm like Linus, I'm I pay for the subscription Linux ISOs. - You pay for Ubuntu when- - (laughs) I pay for - You pay for Mint. A lot of it honestly is - That's what hoarding is all about. - I will admit I have far too much data and far too much storage I back up to my home NAS and I It costs me like 20 or 30 bucks a month, but I know that it's safe and it's also on the origin, so it's in three different places. It's in Montreal, Kentucky and Vancouver. - So you've gone one step further between two on-site, one off-site. You've also gone two off-site, That's pretty cool. Looks like you've got some Older Unify? It's a brand new, that's the - Oh okay yeah, that's quite nice. And then you've got that and that looks nice too. What kind of GPU you got in there? - It's a 1660 TI, that's - I gotta score you. The problem is that you're and you have business-related critical infrastructure as well. - (laughs) It's a very small - I don't know, six out - Six? Six! - What did we score Mark? - Really? I think Mark wins. - I think Mark wins. You're a close god-damn (Jake laughing) that you've done a reasonable setup here. Instead of playing games, Mark is definitely chaotic. - And that's what gives him the edge. As you can see, most of us don't have a and that's where Acronis comes in. Their Acronis Cyber Protect for Business and Acronis Cyber Protect makes protecting and cloning discs or copying data easy Get up to five terabytes of cloud storage for your personal needs with Acronis. Unfortunately for us, we obviously have way So we're gonna point everyone to a server here at the office that's You're gonna start by opening Acronis, setting your destination target, then go to the Backup tab and select it, and then hit Backup Now. If you've got anywhere as we currently have, prepare particularly if you don't on your home network. Acronis does more than just It offers cyber protection features, checks all of these files and it works with just about anything. That's MacOS, Linux and mobile devices, they're all supported. Acronis is giving you thanks to a 40% off discount on their Cyber Protect when you use code Linus2022. Thanks Acronis! It took a while but here we are! A full off-site backup for All 400...Holy (beep)! 450 terabytes? Is that A couple of the interviews but we back them up anyways. So if you wanna see those, get subscribed to Now we just have to make sure the server doesn't catch fire again. Yes thank you Ploof, Thanks for watching, if you guys enjoyed this video, feel free to check out our like how to try Windows 11 safely. That was pretty cool, cause I wrote it.