My guest today is a dear colleague of Senior Leadership team. He is someone who thinks communities and society overall. He is Executive Kevin plays a key role in shaping Microsoft's creating technology that benefits everyone. It's the gaps or build something that does not exist Virginia, a place that's been and will continue know from working closely with him for the last that he thinks deeply about the potential in towns like Gladys and many others. So he's also which invites listeners to geek out with an innovators. He's also the author of a great I highly recommend, by the way. So, Kevin, a very Thank you for having me and for the So, Kevin, one of the big themes running through storytelling. It's foundational to our existence, in our conversations going on. In the Positive we get people to do, actually, is to write down at least, to reflect on the moments that I've they are today. So I'd like to start at the Virginia. What was it like for you as a influence on you and your core beliefs, Kevin? the better way to say it is just sort of my weren't well off. We had, at times, a lot of always paycheck to paycheck. But I don't think we that's not the thing that we were always talking mom hustled with a bunch of little side jobs that school for the kids at church for a brief period. was taking care of the family. I just had the were hardworking, very curious, who always worked something and who felt like they had an obligation that our job was to take care of each other. were serving others in their day to day lives as to you, Kevin, and is also referenced in the idea that anyone, regardless of where they were attain their own version of success. And it's an many people in the US for many years and around again for a better life. In your book, you paint discussed some of that. So I'd like to understand was within their grasp, or yours as their child? dream over the past handful of years. And I may be getting confused about is confusing the both my parents and I believed when I was my family back in Virginia still believes idea that if you go figure out some way to you try to understand what they want and need, possibly can to try to meet those needs of your to you. I tell this to my kids all the time... Microsoft or whatever these big titles are like, crazy thing to try to fixate on and plan for. But was by just applying this set of ideas that I can and then going to do that thing, and it really the way that my parents talked to me about this to go do the work and you've got to go grind and sometimes it doesn't. And it's maybe even something from the failure and then get up and Yeah, absolutely. So in a way, very much entrepreneurship mindset the way Pretty much. I didn't even I didn't I was growing up. But I think that's what I So early on as a child, at one point you'd been computer, Radio Shack Color Computer Two, if deal, a big deal for you personally, because as first programs, I think, including one for the the attention, I think, of your teachers and then love to go back to that, because when I listen about the fact that actually as an undergrad you for college and computer science as your major. know that - for an English PhD. So what happened? versus mastering your native language English? to figure out how I was going to support a scholarship that partially covered the cost of student loans. I was on my own financially, and my parents' financial circumstances. I just had to care of my entire family. And so part of it was think that's a tremendous luxury because sometimes really enjoy. And so I picked computer science. computer science is that there's a way to do in the humanities, and that I wasn't really truth be told, I'm interested in a lot of things. stuff that I'm interested in. So I think it's fine to make yourself as good at it as you possibly and maybe even for the vocation to have these We'll discuss that later Kevin, as well, as I questions, a couple of questions, to think about as a language and technology and AI are kind of other language models. So more to come, because in your mind, in your brain, what prepared you for of code back in 1983. Interestingly enough that company. I was doing modest - because I was not Two. It was more than 40 years ago. So today, now your advice to a young 18-year-old Kevin, who'd without being able to go through a computer he consider? How would you go about that today? and your life that you're in. I don't know anything different because I like to understand been fascinated with tools. Young Kevin would wanted to understand what's behind the scenes advice that I would give people more generally is really have a passion about, that is valuable to now have available to you to go do that thing. are like thinking about what it is that they want cardiothoracic surgeon for the past year. It's when she was really young, because she watched too parents of her friends in school. She had decided been changed over the past few years. The way that to help her solve these medical problems and by is quite interesting. I think that that's need to go solve, all of these things that matter powerful tools to go do them. You don't have to do unbelievably powerful things for you in I think it's a great story, and it reminds me of course, he's been developing the Comingo, - when you ask him questions about the beyond actually just the course you are taking say he could become actually a lifelong learning keep learning a bunch of things differently. at different rates. I was reflecting on this ceramics right now. And the way that I learn is a bunch of books and I can absorb it all, but I'm trying to learn, I have to actually go do of this information I've stuffed in my head other people do it, but it is idiosyncratic there effective for them than how I learn. And so this tutor that could adapt to your particular it's just a really interesting, powerful idea. very recent podcast that I had with a French who is least well known in the country and beyond. is someone who loves about talking about this putting his hands into, what he called the katas is the way he grew up as a kid, actually, in nice analogy, which I love when it comes to AI. a pioneering figure in computer science and Machinery and Intelligence, he asked the following what we as thinking entities can do? And he said, experience. And obviously we know that his work guide our research and development today. A and even his first test, over the past 70 years experience as the most stunning breakthrough defining moment in a way, if I can ask a question are really entering into a very different new era? talk about the history of AI. We've had an entire history of the discipline of AI. So when intelligence hadn't been coined yet. It was five of these mathematicians and computer scientists want to build a machine that in many ways can to call this study, this new field, artificial time over the entire history of the discipline We've got this track record of we think that we own intelligence is, and then we go build machines accomplish the thing, then we redefine what the that the apotheosis of human cognition are these IBM built a system called Deep Blue that beat player at the time. And it was stunning, nobody we figured out that this really isn't the this idea of artificial general intelligence like I think chess is now a more popular human it as a sport, given how competitive it is and watching the competition, even though since 1997 as a computer at playing chess. We just don't thing to keep in mind. And to answer your exact career I think probably happened recently. It was we had that you could follow a particular path of result in an AI system that was very generally That was a big a-ha moment. but I didn't know it was coming this fast. And quote, he said two distinct things. One is he's can we write a piece of software that emulates we can do the latter. But the former is like what are you thinking about? How do you think? from what these software systems are doing. alluded to that, you were really an inception OpenAI. And because back in the spring of 2018, obviously OpenAI already had a relationship team including Sam Altman and also Ilya Sutskever. guys and the work they were doing at the time Well, I will tell you, I was sceptical going in general is just a personality disorder, always slightly sceptical of things that I haven't fully understand them and I'm still sceptical instances where I went in and... I'd been building like very large-scale things, doing very valuable and I was not prepared to go into that meeting the next handful of years. And I walked out of the cusp of something very interesting. We were a way of thinking about the problem that they was a methodology like, here's the experiment from it and this is what it will tell us about thought we had the foundations for a partnership to support this very disciplined development it was going to be useful and interesting for problem. A lot of the AI systems before then were play go, predict which ads someone is going going to be able to build this system and that more broadly useful and you're going to be able and millions of applications on top of it. As Microsoft has been on for almost five decades now. of AI and what you experienced yourself. I'd you have at Microsoft, because I think but actually quite optimistic as well. Someone would say that's also my bias, I must admit, as your childhood, as you said, poverty and loss of you understand well the need to invest in rural Kevin, you are now in charge of shaping the social know so well. What would you do to transform the to reshape the traditional sectors like and more? In other words, how would you reprogram you do if you were in charge with AI? and this is this is a set of things that we ought not just in the rural parts of the United States, the industrialized world as well. I think job one place to support people using AI tools to solve it is like, do you have a platform available? Is over time? Can you operate it freely across global like one of the struggles that folks in my work well. My mom and brother live near a for Gladys and they have very good internet. has 300 kilobit per second internet, which was you can't leverage AI if you can't connect to AI. like really educate people to be entrepreneurs and expose them to this full palette of tools critically about what the interesting problems those tools to use solving. It's a very different since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, these basic skills. You need to be literate. You have structure in your life where you can get number of hours and work in teams and understand very industrial revolution sort of learning. Not anymore, no. So it's both infrastructure, of accessing as well, not just freely, but also I a lot of fear in many countries. I travelled the see a lot of confusion, fear and anxiety in just to be done there as well in terms of education. like I'd do this even if it weren't my job - it's really hard for us to think past the month, whatever it is. We're very short time-horizon time-horizons, we've got some very challenging climate which is going to impose a whole bunch have designed a world for one temperature regime, of work to go do to adapt to that and to engineer regime worse than it's going to be. Maybe the change. Almost everywhere in the industrialized population growth is decelerating and you can sort going to tip into deceleration. I think the United countries that are in the best situation. The last still growing through the 2030s. decline. Last year we had this pretty bad signal but just like in the US, I think we Italy is in decline. Germany is in decline. particular are in pretty serious decline. In time-horizon where I'm worrying on the behalf of worry on behalf of ourselves. These demographic have a big enough workforce to go do the work of in productivity and major breakthroughs in AI or something else, something has to happen or one that we occupy right now. AI is currently the I fully agree with you. It's fascinating to as you say, Kevin. So I'd like to shift gears times we are going through right now in 2024. This as you know, with countries representing like 4 billion people are going to send their got from Bill Gates, of course, our founder and 1985 called The Road Ahead. He said, we don't have gets to vote on whether technology is going to no one gets to vote for using AI in their lives? a great many things like on this particular have in democratic society is if you make the then the votes can be really stark. The way that and I talk about it all the time and it's one is like, I think all the time about permission. given us permission. We don't have a right to to do what we do and like the permission if we are not listening very carefully to mindset you basically have more fluid voting people are voting every day by telling you what and adapting what you're doing, hopefully you get that they feel confident about and hopeful It really doesn't in the limit work that way. in my roles over many years at Microsoft, I have around the world so many times, and it was really Union speech by your president, Joe Biden. He AI generated voice impersonations. I propose a deceptive voice recordings or sensibilities especially in areas like society, economy and the first place, and as we just started talking peers embrace what we've called responsible AI? Responsible AI is sort of like responsible practices. It is about saying this is what transparent like in the saying, like publish processes and controls inside of your company and then being willing to engage with stakeholders degree of auditability of your processes for developing and deploying this technology needs got board audit committees and outside When the thing gets important enough, you need everybody can believe that you're doing the thing. called for is perfectly reasonable. One of the and we've had technology that can do interesting we have chosen not to deploy that because the in ways that far outweigh the benefits, seems And maybe at some point you will do it because, Like one of the things that we've been doing in called ALS that will ultimately cause, among voice. And so we have been using this technology the ability to speak, we get enough of a that you could have an AI system give them their beneficial thing. And so, yeah, with all of this good does it enable? Like what bad does it enable? the bad and that like when the bad is really and very quickly detect and mitigate misuse. as a company, but with the industry and others, as much, I would say, urgency coming from It's happening in Europe, it's happening in we are all in around the table to make sure implement some tools and processes. And you the head of the Responsible AI Office with some our own ways of building AI tools, we do it in a touch a bit on that, on the way our customers Yeah. I mean, obviously we're a platform we're building tools and infrastructure to help operate them safely and efficiently and all the make that infrastructure available to customers. standard that we have published. The new US NIST part on our responsible AI framework. There are a AI framework as a jumping off point for their of infrastructure that we're offering in Azure to responsibly. It's a brand new toolchain. It's a things. And increasingly, the tools that you which is like one of the really interesting powerful your RAI infrastructure gets. One thing policy and regulation, is that there's also... The there's this balance between benefits there's also positive and negative for regulation. you may curtail the development of technology thing that I... I think, again, this is all about we're doing in a way where we have enough societal people lay their hands on it and evaluate whether the regulation that actually has to happen. If a vacuum, you're sort of imagining what a future You sort of risk two things, like regulating the regulation, you pass something and it doesn't something that could be very, very valuable. that. I would say, as usual with any innovation, it's really a balancing act between policies innovation, processes and people, people, people. are critical to the way you develop here. thing. That's the most important thing. It's important than the implementation details. If that is serving the public interest, that then what are you doing? You're honestly wasting to wake up and stop doing what you're doing. to shift gears a little bit and use one of the our manager, Satya. Satya likes poems, as you poet called Rainer Maria Rilke. He once wrote that itself in us long before it happens. So, Kevin, for a better world or for a dystopian world? there are many people who will disagree with me - Obviously when a technology emerges, it absolutely If you just imagine, you and I for instance, how influenced by a whole bunch of technologies great grandmother, who passed away many years ago, the 19th century and lived through the first from a world that had no electricity, no cars, She was in a barely industrialized, kind of we had airplanes, space travel, satellites, an extraordinary impact on not just how we live that's good or bad is up to us. It's choices that we decide to put it to. If you look over the positive. And in a sense, it has to be, otherwise time. If you choose the wrong path every time, you and then we course correct. We've been building, prosperous than the world that you or I were born born into, where there's less violence, less disease and suffering. All of the things still were decades ago. And, the question we have to are we doing the best job that we possibly can to our children and our grandchildren will look back this made all of these things that we care better, not worse. We'd better get it right. not even any financing amount associated with we're almost coming to an end - with more already a couple of great examples like ALS. I a wonderful visit in India 2 or 3 weeks ago. This Microsoft Research actually has been partnering 22 officials enabling a farmer in a remote translated to English and Hindi, but to connect, access for the first time ever to the public life. And it can apply to farming, education. regards to application of gen AI when it comes to Yeah, I think there's so much stuff that. One that is really interesting. So one of the things that helping everyone navigate the complexity of the We've been doing some work with an organization whose mission is to feed kids. It's just sort and what the knock on effects of childhood hunger as ADHD is actually just kids being hungry. When It just sort of becomes a snowball effect in doing with Share Our Strength is we're trying to navigate the entitlement programs that already been appropriated and it's sitting there unspent navigate the bureaucracy to sign themselves up generative AI to help with. I think that that powerful. I think educational equity is another here in Silicon Valley with excellent teachers. the 70s and 80s in rural central Virginia. But if there's not even a comparison. The thing to try to make a higher quality of education and not just across the United States, but across the happening right now where the fundamental this notion of self-supervised learning, that you just compute into AI systems that can solve very just language. And so we're doing some really you can apply these techniques to physics and next electrolyte for energy storage or designing It's the thing I think is underappreciated to perceive what the progress is versus what's base agents. The progress is extraordinary. are just unbelievable in some cases. The biggest It's an exciting, exciting, exciting time. I'm lucky enough being part of Microsoft to see on. Finishing last couple of questions, Kevin, the core, the spirit, of my podcast, as you know. you started the Scott Foundation back the Silicon Valley community, where they work focus of the foundation was on supporting leading as childhood hunger, early childhood education, you and your wife are the most proud of and? in such foundations, like our friend Bill has I think what Bill has done with the Gates thing I think that makes their accomplishment things to focus on and they have just driven very done in public health is just extraordinary. not getting solved fast enough that don't have doesn't change, they're going to be just as bad focus on at the Scott Foundation is trying to so things that lock people into intergenerational because both my wife and I grew up not terribly though my dad went bankrupt a couple of times with, we're still more privileged than someone who the 1970s. I think you always have to appreciate in a sense, look at ourselves and we're like, wow. that if they hadn't have happened, we would have the foundation is what can you do to go engineer luck that my wife and I had so that you don't people to snap out of a poverty cycle. We try to where they're thinking about how you can with tools like AI, for instance, you can go Yeah. That's wonderful. My very last questions positive leadership philosophy, we learn how to be but also to build our own positivity, which in the way we show up in a way we connect with or maybe habits you have from time to with your colleagues, customers, and all So there there's a bunch of stuff, actually. just sort of say the most important ones. I think the positivity that you project in the world to to ground yourself in "what's one thing that I can so important is because once you start feeling Once you've felt the first thing you're grateful that you should be grateful for, and it helps of having compassion in your life, of being like not feeling what they're feeling, but view is and why they might be doing what they're this is irritating. There's always a bit of gratitude can go an awfully long way. because, I mean, you are still a young is relative in life, I think. It's a bit But perhaps what story would you like people kind of mark would you want to leave and the I don't know. Honestly I'm deeply uncomfortable I'm doing. I would like the opportunity to work doing. The thing often that I'm proudest about. someone that I hired 19 years ago, actually - they start date at this thing that we were both doing them because the thing that makes me feel the best impact, a positive impact on someone's career. after we are no longer working closely together kind of don't care what everybody thinks of me, like, feel like it wasn't a waste of time working obviously I care a lot about my family. I want and have my wife be successful and my children believe that they had a husband and a father That's a wonderful way to close the podcast, to feel your joy as well, to feel the vibes of the world while being very conscious about our Kevin. I enjoyed tremendously, of but also as a friend in this podcast, Thank you very much for having me on. out into the world. Thank you, Kevin.