Did you or your parents grow up with a a dithering old man who was once a ruthless some of you out there lived among those war You'll agree with us in about 25 minutes. Adolf Hitler's smoldering flesh filled the ad hoc cremation in the Reich Chancellery was marching in, leaving piles of dead The grand prize, many of the highest-ranking scientists, and the demented doctors, were fire. Some of them with assistance from the very On April 30, Hitler had said his goodbyes to Berlin. He'd already informed a select group of left of me. Don't let those Soviets take Hitler demanded. Don't leave anything. he knew there was still a possibility whom Hitler had a very close bond with, had of the bunker and fly to freedom. Baur had been shells made Hitler jump every so often, Baur was In the weeks and days leading up to the end, Germany from at least six airfields in and around The Baltic coast, maybe. Or further Japan...Arab Sheiks would even help hide Hitler! right at the end that he had a Fieseler Fi 156 from the Tiergarten near the Brandenburg Gate to safety on the other side of the world. spend his life on the run, not like the and duty to the fatherland and handed him of the Prussian King Frederick the Great. afternoon, Baur was there when Hitler's dead body the garden. Tears filled Baur's eyes. Just days squirrels in that garden. Hitler had been the best in gasoline, treated no better than garbage. the ever-loyal Joseph Goebbels, also became garden. His wife, Magda, burned next to of their remains. It turned out that The Soviets, under their ruthless did not want dead bodies. This was no good. He the Soviets wanted the scientists. They wanted the the doctors who had medical data no other country items among that Berlin rubble, but the Baur did not get far. The road he'd planned covered in potholes. Hitler was right not to the Soviet 3rd Shock Army. They found Baur the Nazi Chancellery head Martin Bormann, one as Baur, was killed by Soviet artillery. was confirmed. For decades, there were rumors and Australia. It was said he was a Soviet spy. The CIA and the FBI never stopped looking for of course. It wasn't until 1998 that Bormann, who was conclusively identified Every high-ranking Nazi became a part of this was for the Soviets to get there first. After one June 1945, he was interrogated time and again. Where are your brothers in arms? Where are the man, who'd been there at the end of Hitler's life As newspapers the world over ran headlines surely on the way, Stalin wasn't buying it. Not The Germans didn't surrender but the war was a hopeless cause. Germany at but they were not going to come. Karl replaced Hitler as the head of state and was The Allies would accept nothing but complete May 7 when Alfred Jodl, the Chief of Staff of Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary It was the best of times. It was the died. Soldiers had returned home who'd suffered far worse than anyone else, were seen elsewhere. 27 million dead. Economic although their propaganda machine played Stalin didn't even know how close the Americans under the Manhattan Project. His dream of aid whispered in his ear on July 16 that was attending the Potsdam conference at the It suddenly became much more important to find know it, but a new secret war featuring UK, and the Soviets. Take them alive, not dead, they did just that but didn't feel the capitalism versus communism, Hitler was dead, even if Stalin didn't But what about the other main players? the Luftwaffe? Not long before the end to death by Hitler for the alleged crime of Bormann had orders to execute him if Berlin happen. It was better for Goring to surrender to and that's what he did on May 6 when the 36th Goring's lavish tastes for gold as did his starring role in the Holocaust, but not by firing squad as he'd asked, his life If you had to list the top five Nazis, put Bormann in fourth, Goebbels in third, Goring was the Head of the SS and Gestapo, the Himmler had also become the object of Hitler's talks with the enemy. This infuriated Hitler, most loyal of his inner circle after Goebbels. the worst case of disloyalty in his entire On May 21, long after Hitler had been turned British while trying to escape. He was then sent the city of Luneburg. Despite the civilian the British discovered they had someone important admitted that he was dead. A doctor had asked a slight crunching sound, he was on the floor. a quiet place. The man later called the chief Reinhard Heydrich, had already died in 1942 This left another of Hitler's closest, the Albert Speer, who'd once had ideas that he might the British after Germany's surrender. that Speer had been a very important a literal architect in the industry of mass knew about the Nazi's extermination plans, This also left the Nazi Minister of who was arrested in May 1945. After the trials Next up for a death sentence was Chief of the Armed Forces High Command. emptied. But in the who's who of Nazis, been the grand admiral of the Kriegsmarine He might have kept his job as Hitler's the embarrassment at the Battle of the delivered a beating to the Germans late at Raeder lost his job, but that didn't mean trials. Nonetheless, he and Donitz later when instead of a death sentence, Raeder wasn't expecting that since he was conspiracy to commit crimes against peace, crimes against the laws of war, and waging wars too, but some of the charges didn't stick, and Both men were able to argue they weren't Those Nazis accused of being a major part of on to serve prison sentences and, in later life, the Governor-General of Occupied Poland, against humanity, and no way was he This so-called butcher of Poland exhibited no happy... when Adolf Hitler, in a most wonderful rise succeeded by the end of 1938." participate in the annihilation of Jews?" I say 'yes' is because, having lived through after having heard the testimony of the witness the responsibility solely on these minor people." to look like an evil beast, so he passed the Hitler's and Himmler's fault. Hitler must have million Jews dead. Soviet prisoners, other and no one wanted to take the blame. They looked can of soda. The evidence was overwhelming. Ernst Kaltenbrunner, a rabid anti-Semite when the so-called Jewish problem was brought up. aware he was being charged with being one of the atrocities of the concentration camps." of the world is directed against me." in conversations when people he was what the people said he was, "The Monster Still, like the others, he passed the hot "I never saw a gas chamber, either in operation existed." Like many at the trials, he tried saying he'd just followed orders. mentioned already, that was hanged on October 16, it was Kaltenbrunner's turn. His last words were, and I am sorry my people were led this time were committed of which I had no knowledge." 43-year-old Sergeant John C. Woods from Despite all this denial, he took great "I hanged those ten Nazis . . . and I am proud afford to have nerves in this business." the men's heads hit the trapdoor on the way so they were strangled to death rather than fall. The US Army denied this, but to be frank, half-botched hangings. Rumors circulated These 10 men were perhaps the cream of the crop, without thousands of people being involved. The of war crimes. There was the Doctors' Trial in or taking part in the terrifying Nazi medical acquitted, and seven were sentenced to death. Over 1,300 witnesses came forward in those camps. Over 30,000 documents were generated around 132,000 pages of transcripts. lot was Adolf Eichmann, another architect of the into those camps where they would live in horrific Eichmann was one of the men that designed the orders to many of those men who would later One of them was Rudolf Hoss. The testimony of Eichmann one of the most wanted men on the planet. one of the people responsible for introducing the of people in the gas chambers. He didn't deny it. in deep water. Hoss was asked, as an authority of the Reich, have anything to He replied, "Yes, insofar as I received all my the Obersturmfahrer (Senior Assault-unit Leader) and to everyone's alarm, he wasn't one of the men and as you'll see, he'd had some help. in a written statement that he later confirmed Jews alone at Auschwitz in the summer of 1944." well as torturing British POWs. He said at while half a million more died from starvation. written after WWII were in Hoss's signed horse's mouth because it's so astonishing: prussic acid that we dropped into the death to 15 minutes to kill the people in the death We knew when the people were dead because about one-half hour before we opened the doors and our special Kommandos took off the rings and Hoss explained how mothers would hide their to keep the exterminations secret from the rest stench" gave it away. In relation to the mass action came to you directly from Himmler through He replied, "Yes." So, the line of As you know, Himmler was dead so now Eichmann was the man that everyone wanted, But Eichmann was nowhere to be found. After the US troops and later sent to a work camp. He'd By the time Hoss was spilling the beans, out in Germany under the name Otto Heninger. they needed a lot of friends. One of them was years later, would refuse to admit he'd done believe in the eye for an eye of the Jew." and many other war criminals to hide out in had sufficient paperwork to get a passport and These escape routes were called ratlines. Many of chosen destinations were Mexico, Switzerland, There are various reasons why the Nazis chose other Germans there. Many of the countries were would take them. There was also the fact that and once enough Nazis were in a certain A Nazi journalist interviewed Eichmann in until 2022. They tell you a lot about Eichmann, about the Jews deported to Auschwitz, whether Jews who were fit to work would work, and those As he said those sobering words, Jewish Nazi Argentina. Eichmann had actually settled in becoming the department head at a Mercedes Benz Little did the Nazi hunters know that the own Nazis in South America on its payroll. 27,000 documents about former Nazis and their that Eichmann "is reported to have lived in actually living under the name of Ricardo Klement. complicated. It's believed the West Germans hunters wanted to know. This was the Cold War, reason not to share all their intelligence. You'll just say some men were supposed to stay hidden. sent to capture Eichmann staked out his house watched him travel to work and back by bus. They one of the agents went to up Eichmann and he guessed what was happening, but before he to the ground. One of the worst runaway This wasn't extradition in any sense what were they to do without any extradition and smuggled him back to Israel on a plane, This was incredibly controversial at the time. basically said something like extraordinary Eichmann was soon standing in a courtroom, "a thin, balding man of 55 who looked more a naive thing to say. Evil doesn't snarl Like the rest, Eichmann denied being the monster "didn't kill anyone" and that he was "only aspects of evacuation transports." anyone. He was executed in 1962. they had to make a sacrifice. That's because man that was known as the "Angel of Death," in the worst possible ways, Josef Mengele. after they entered the camp and picked out the later call him uncle after he handed them candies. human guinea pigs. This is how one of those "Dr. Mengele pulled me out of a queue as we gas chamber. I was the only one picked that They took me to his laboratory, where I met pain... I was injected with drugs and chemicals." and the war effort in general, Mengele would gave some gangrene after rubbing dirt and people without anesthesia. Sometimes when back of the lab, where they were shot. victims of these terrible experiments, 27,000. It's been reported that over 4,300 of them with terrible scars. Lots of them later testified His infinitely unethical work, of course, you can't experiment on humans, but in the became possible. Some were left outside to freeze heated up. Women had their muscles and nerves Some were given deadly blood infections. who worked alongside Mengele, later testified: even whole arms with shoulder blades or legs were on insane women who were immediately killed It wasn't an easy decision for those Mossad in order to catch Eichmann. They'd heard the of hidden Nazis, Eichmann was the bigger fish. "When I have a bird in my hand, I don't start the bird in my hand, put it in a cage, But by the time the Red Army liberated Auschwitz the Americans got him in June, he'd already The US had no idea who they had on their hands, Ulmann, which he later changed to Fritz Hollmann. but when those testimonies revealed to persuade enough people he was a worthy SS members helped him get to Italy, where Committee of the Red Cross. In 1949, and later worked as a carpenter under careful with for a good reason. A sure But his confidence grew over the years. He even going on a skiing holiday. Back in Argentina, women illegal abortions. He never really changed. "Brazil is a nice country to live in despite the who, like me, believe and are sympathetic He remained a fan of eugenics, writing in permitted to reproduce. This is the only way During the trial of Eichmann in 1961, Mengele's during the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials, everyone in attendance when she said: whom he took away one day from the block where I Some days later, he returned them, with veins The judge couldn't believe his ears and asked Siamese twins!?" She replied, "yes," he did. On February 7, 1979, while Mengele he had a stroke in a swimming pool and drowned. but little did Americans know that fiends None of this would have been possible if it wasn't He was one of the worst. The commander of camps. It's said on his hands was the made him an even bigger fish than Mengele. In Bishop Alois Hudal, when Hudal said to him, "You He first went to Syria with the documents Hudal his family in tow, he worked in Sao Paulo justice was served, and Stangl was extradited. He to life in prison in 1970. Just six months He called the Jews he killed mere numbers, he stated, "That was my profession. I enjoyed about that, I won't deny it." In one of his last I share the guilt." 19 hours later, he was dead. crossed the Alps into Italy. They often hid out sometimes the Franciscan monastery near route." From there, Rome was usually the next In Rome, with a member of the Catholic the International Committee of the Red Cross the region of 120,000 papers were handed out but it was due to humanitarian concerns. The at risk of persecution, including Jews during the criticized for giving those Nazis papers. This Sometimes those involved in the ratlines intelligence agencies that helped the so-called a man whose face stayed in his victims' memories to say, they could never forget his evil eyes. suspected of being part of the French resistance he'd put the cat down and walk over to his Trust me, you will talk. They all do in the end." "Barbie took pleasure, a pleasure that was "He had the eyes of a monster. He was savage. He butchered them in ways we and then sent them to their deaths at the camps. whose headquarters were at the famed l'hotel often for days on end, with that Not many people could hold out. Some did, though, thought was connected to a resistance fighter after already smashing her up and freezing her "I admire you, but in the end, everybody my dear. Nobody has held out as long as you. It's Go on, a little effort....WHO. IS. DIDIER?" her swollen eyes with a hatred she never "Liquidate her. I don't want to see her anymore." after the war that Barbie sent possibly four camps, including dozens of orphans. This was He had a lot of intelligence in his mind and he was a man of great value, a top asset. him and interrogated him, asking him everything communists in Europe. God only knows, the US the US took Barbie away from the Brits. "CIC rationalized that if unemployed, Barbie would find out that CIC had not turned him in." an early iteration of the CIA, knew the French but he was just too good to give up. So, the he spied for them as an anti-communist, he'd dollars" for his work. Well, thought Barbie, They also promised him they'd make his name around about this the butcher of Lyon. They knew the French wanted justice. It better in the greater scheme of things, Now things get really crazy. A now-declassified escape to South America via a 'ratline' operating In actions that many years later the US Justice the CIC enlisted a fascist war criminal who escapes. He was the Croatian priest named Dr. said to be behind the murder of hundreds Here is part of a secret CIC memo "The 430th CIC Detachment has been operating to Central and South America without serious the cost of approximately $1,000 for each adult, they are provided with legal documentation South American dictators ran a tight ship in terms was the king of interrogations. They tortured they were anti-communist, they got the backing for and arranged coups of democratically elected the payroll wasn't such a big deal. There is even and the CIA working in a collaboration that We now know that Barbie was also on the payroll He was agent 43118. Like the US, West Germany Barbie worked with other organizations that the drug traffickers. For a while, he Roberto Suarez Gomez, aka, "The King of Cocaine." Medellin Cartel. Escobar gave him money for his given the US was after Escobar yet at the same though, before his identity was revealed, and he The spying agencies of Americans, were all somewhat hot under the collar because working as torturer-in-chef in South When he arrived at the airport in 1983, a kid was there and tried to shoot him. She failed so his appearance was mightily The Justice Department had to make that apology. written, with sections headed with things like 1965-1967", "drug trafficking," "weapons trade," Nazis hunters struggled to find him and the the CIA was writing memos that said he could provide "unique information of significant Barbie went to trial. His victims hissed and describing in harrowing detail what had happened speechless by what they heard, how this of sadism. Barbie's lawyer tried to argue from what the Americans did in My Lai in It didn't work. He was found guilty of crimes prison. The question now was, who else had Declassified documents tell us the FBI through a ratline to South America. Some of the that or at least wrote about the possibility of it be hiding out in foothills of Southern Andes." A man in that meeting said he was in a group of they landed from a submarine in Argentina." including doctors, all part of Hitler's escape but that didn't mean they were true. had tried after the war to hire leading former Cold War against the Soviet Union. Both J. at the C.I.A. were in on this. The New York war criminals were hired, and some ended up One case involved a man accused of machine-gunning CIA as a spy and paid $1,700 a year, as well That was in 1952. In 1956, he was given the when the FBI wanted to prosecute him, the that because it would expose them. Department to please step aside when the latter living in the US working for you. They were FBI who in the US had sympathies for the Commies. still on the payroll. The FBI sent a memo to its "protecting the confidentiality of such sources One of these undercover agents was He'd worked under Eichmann and once authored a people. Despite being a war criminal, he hooked it became the CIA, Bolschwing was one of the him in 1954 when it moved him and his family for his loyal postwar service." Another note exposed as one of Eichmann's main men, it will be the information about his close relationship They weren't all great spies. The Times wrote, declassified security reviews show. confidence men or embezzlers, and a few Who knows, maybe that quiet man next door Nazi war criminal helped through a US-sponsored Operation Paperclip, the US took in another members or even leaders of the Nazi Party. These to do what they'd always done: science. Some and don't think for a second that the Soviets put about 2,200 of them on the payroll. also lived in the UK, and MI6 hired a few. The however, and were granted civilian status. Many those who survived were British subjects." "Annihilation Squad" of the S.S. in Warsaw and, the British and American spy agencies. A research paper featuring Slim and other Nazi war "At this time, the British knew Slim was a war their own intelligence officers, Mr. Coleman, which had formed during Operation Nursery. in coordination with their American colleagues, Cow,' which would later develop into the Operation Selection Board consisted of going virulently anti-communist movement. These rabid actually believed they would get help from against Stalin. It was later written: it made sense to these people, and they believed accept it. They then decided to make the supreme if their plan failed, they sent five of their reveal their identity as fugitives, The paper also states that Klaus Barbie of supplies for the organization and the throughout the British and American zones.&quot; told the Nazis they were behind them, that they'd long as they went after the communists. But these Nazi war criminals, as well as the remaining the Americans and Brits arrested 50 of these "This was the last large organized western zone of Germany. It was completely and its story now serves as a reminder to the actions outside the scope of the existing A different paper written about Mr. Slim states, crucial to the successful completion of other Nazi underground organizations." Americans soon started worrying that it had a war criminal on their secret books. knew way too much about American and British agent? He soon became a security risk. information and not the informant." Three British Intelligence officers later they were bringing him in. The report says, It says this six-foot-six, huge man, went through they "had been ordered to take him alive, except to try to overawe him." and he apparently went "berserk," so they tried to "Finally, after a severe struggle one a loaded stick and knocked him unconscious." the Americans," but before they could get We imagine his last words were something like, If this story proves anything, it is that the Now you need to watch the full version of "How have a look at "WW2 Serial Killer Even