In high school is when I had some type of thought when the professor was talking about, like US, economics don't think I'm meant to live in the US. When I moved to Iceland, it felt as if there was pulling me in this direction, and I still haven't been exactly, but I know it has something to do with the My name is Josh chambers. I am 38 years old. I moved to Iceland from Brooklyn in 2016 and I make year. I was born and raised in Brooklyn, specifically in Bushwick. I moved to Iceland in June of 2016 and it was a huge for me. The biggest reason for me moving is that I had Besides love, I also was offered a job in the company in Iceland. My ex and I separated in 2022 and was finalized in July of 2023. Of all things, Iceland gives you the inside scoop on culture and travel through the eyes of someone who 2016, giving travel tips, advice and sharing fun about the country, as well as interviews on my And really fun, helpful information across all of my All things Iceland for the last six months has made a for the rest of the year, the projection is revenue of company pays me. In essence, I pay myself $6,000 a month before taxes Because I have a great partnership, a long term Iceland. I do not pay for anything regarding the car There is universal health insurance in Iceland that is So once you've been living in the country for at least or what would be considered your Social Security system, and when you go to the doctor, you do have to is normally not a lot. Oftentimes when I've gone to the doctor, my cost might $4. In general, Iceland is expensive, and in particular when it comes to eating It is normal to pay somewhere between 25 to $30 for course at a restaurant a main course. Often when I've gone out and I had a three course A cup of coffee also varies depending on where you get It could cost you as much as $7.50 to almost $8. I have a credit card. It's a US credit card that I've had for a really long I was so happy when I paid it off a couple of years Thankfully, I do not have any debts any longer. I did pay off my student loans. Another thing that I was incredibly grateful to do. It's amazing to say that I am debt free, and I'd like because in Iceland you pay yourself once per month. That's usually how it happens. I put away automatically 10% into a savings account. So we're in Kronan, which is the store I normally like This section is my section. Granted, in Iceland it's limited and the only reason things. It's because I am plant based. I often am buying fruits and vegetables. So bananas. Of course. It's really important to me to try and shop fact that Iceland has certain vegetables, that it can out. So I'm always buying cucumbers. They're looking really fresh Because sometimes due to and being in the country for a while, it's good to this is a decent one. I love mushrooms, they're so delicious. So I'm really happy that Iceland does grow these two. One hot tip though, that if you're visiting and you Iceland, it is pristine. It's amazing. There's no reason to ever buy bottled water in Another very Icelandic thing that you'll find in And this is hot pursuit. So it's dried haddock. And this is 1699. Do not do not open this in an airplane and someone's permission. Like it is a very intense smell. I love living in downtown Reykjavik, and I street that's a little bit busy, but I don't mind it, And for a one bedroom, one bathroom apartment with an spot. I'll just say that because that's important to As well as a storage area downstairs, I pay a little Welcome to my humble abode. The bathroom is here. It's small but cozy. A nice big mirror and, like, storage space all over You walk right into the kitchen. I love having an island. I feel like I'm doing something wrong, though, because the house. And that is not something that you do. My workspace is here and over here is my chilling out space. Huge couch TV. Even though I don't watch a ton of television. When I moved in here, my mom was like, you need to I think she was right. This painting and the paintings that you see in this He's a great artist and a musician in the last room of At least that's in this apartment is the bedroom. I love the closet space. All these closets are just for me, which is great. And a super comfy bed. I love Iceland, but it also can be really tough in the daylight is so much less. We have about four hours of daylight on our shortest days during the summer. It can be snowy, icy, rainy during the winter of rainy during the summer. Mild temperatures though, which is nice, meaning it below freezing on average all during the winter time. And in the summertime, we're getting temperatures of more like 40 to 55 is fair. One of the most frustrating things about living in whatever you want, and that's only the price that you If I order something from Amazon or from Iherb, which customs fee can oftentimes be much more than what the worth. And that is extremely frustrating to me because want can be found in Iceland, so I need to order it I would say that my Icelandic is partly only because I afraid to make really big mistakes, and that's So my understanding is quite high. So I can often just like, listen. And I totally get it. And then I'm just like, what do I'm stuck on what to say. Living in Iceland has 1,000% had an amazing impact on health. The nature aspect has helped me in so many that it always has to be about my skin color. Being a person of color has many different layers in different. I have had a wonderful experience when I I think the biggest weight off of my shoulders was was most part of my identity. It felt like being from New York was what people were and I loved that. I loved being just Jules from New York. I'm not saying no one paid attention to my color or Definitely nowhere near the same type of weight that I Regarding the systematic oppression and racism. I will never, ever say that there is no racism in There absolutely is. And there have been people who have unfortunately been said to them or done to them. I just have not been one of those people, and I hope get better as we all gain awareness. When I first moved over, a big part of being in an one is that you spend a lot of time together. So it was great that my ex's family were so welcoming, loving, so kind, as well as the people that I've met So I have Icelandic friends and I have non Icelander are really good friends of mine. I have a boyfriend now who is Icelandic and is amazing experiencing a very welcoming environment from his I also have been putting aside money to buy an boyfriend. Was over here. We're talking about how we can change the apartment to So currently it has one bathroom and we would like to So we were looking at taking the kitchen and another bathroom slash laundry area. This is our second time checking out this apartment. They lowered the price for this place and that of appeal. It's really bright. It's in a great location downtown. There's a wonderful view. Part of this apartment that you can tell, it's like a But we're we're good at we're loving. Yeah, we're good at giving love. So there's schools from when we start a family. The number one thing I miss from the US is my family. I visit the US 1 to 2 times a year, and I have family year. My mother being the number one person that loves She was just here for seven weeks and that was I am an Icelandic citizen and I have been for some Iceland is my home. I've felt that ever since I moved. When I made that decision and stepped my foot down country full time, it just felt right and it has So for the foreseeable future, Iceland is my home, and I have the chance to say that