CHRISTIAN STEINER: day in 1942, fighters, carriers would battle to This is history's war room. As a combat veteran, I've always to be one of the finest examples during World War II. In the spring of 1942, vulnerable in their fight the Japanese hurried to expand They set their sights on almost directly in between States and Japan. By 1942, Midway was home to and Air Force base, face its greatest challenge. This is the Battle of Midway. The Japanese Navy is led by Worried about the scope wartime industry, Yamamoto need to be defeated quickly, into full military production. Mirroring the success Yamamoto's entire strategy On the day before Yamamoto will send a small off the coast of Alaska. He expects the their fleet to drawing their forces Yamamoto plans his invasion of Phase one. The Japanese first carrier attack Midway Island by air. This group is led by Vice His fleet is built around four The Akagi, Kaga, Phase two. After the destruction Yamamoto will bring in the by Vice Admiral Nobutake Kondo. His ships will land 5,000 crushing any remaining Phase three. Yamamoto expects to arrive from diminished by the Japanese Nagumo's force will strike in concert with of battleships, waiting 600 miles to the west. Yamamoto expects his secret the American military, a decisive victory and a But that's not what happens. Working in a windowless commander Joseph Rochefort combat intelligence unit. By March of 1942, have deciphered much of And in a discovery that would they learn the time, the impending Midway invasion. Admiral Chester in chief of the immediately starts He will fight the battle keeping his carriers distance of the Japanese Navy. Nimitz's three carriers Task Force 17 is led by who is also given command during the battle. The USS Yorktown The second carrier is led by Rear Admiral Spruance's group includes Enterprise and Hornet. The US forces are ready. Yamamoto believes cornered when in fact, Nimitz On June 3rd, Yamamoto Islands as planned. But Admiral Nimitz, has stationed a small contingent saving the majority for the impending As Yamamoto's forces he receives intelligence American carriers in the area. Yamamoto wants to inform farther along towards Midway. However, the Japanese of the Americans listening in and thus, Yamamoto chooses Meanwhile at Midway, for the Japanese attack. Ensign Jack Reid, flying his heavy fog, just barely spots the Reid thinks he has but in reality, it is Vice the group meant to two of Yamamoto's plan. Nine B-17 bombers are dispatched but can't land any hits. Although tactically this attack marks the of the battle. Kondo, adhering to the Japanese doesn't inform Nagumo Nagumo has no inkling [PLANE TAKING OFF] On the morning of June 4th, take off from and attack any Shortly thereafter, his Midway attack as planned. 108 aircraft, including D3A &quot;Val&quot; dive bombers, and The Americans launch four to attack the Japanese fleet. Six Navy Grumman Marauders, 16 Marine and 11 Marine SB2U Vindicators. [AIR RAID SIREN BLARING] [PLANES FLYING] At 05:56, the air at Midway as the incoming Squads of F2A Buffalo fighters engage the [PLANES FLYING] [EXPLOSIONS] Japanese pilots swiftly bomb hospital, and power plant. [MUSIC PLAYING] The American fighters are manage to defend their base. After 27 minutes of hell the first phase of But was it enough? At 07:05, a Japanese pilot Nagumo another air attack off the American base. Nagumo is faced with one decisions of the battle. Does he launch another or does he prepare with potential American Before he can decide, to rain down on his fleet. American squadrons launched have finally reached Nagumo is shocked. There's no way the his fleet so quickly unless in advance. As Nagumo tries to figure he is shocked again as the emerges behind his fleet. In the midst of all still has to make his decision. And at 07:15, he does. He will rearm his and prepare for a But 13 minutes after a Japanese scout spots 10 Nagumo is stunned. There weren't supposed As American pilots continue he orders his crews and prepare those torpedoes to attack Across the battlefield, Admiral and Hornet, are busy to attack the Japanese prepares to launch more. At 08:20, Nagumo of at least one American He is shaken but can't finish returning from Midway. Yamamoto also receives the but expecting Nagumo chooses not to the battle to play a decision that Nagumo's bombers finally to redirect towards the one Not a minute later, of Devastator dive bombers Unescorted by fighters, Two more air groups and the other from Yorktown. Of the 26 Devastators It appears the Americans [MUSIC PLAYING] Confident they have the Japanese take time to when out of nowhere, roar out of the sunlight This is Lieutenant Commander group, the first to that morning at 07:06. Their mission was to attack but when McClusky at the supposed location, there Dangerously low on fuel his superiors because McClusky has a decision to make. He can safely return or take one last stab at little fuel he has left. He makes a choice called one of the most important Acting on instinct, McClusky following the path he thinks towards the American fleet. His quick thinking shifts and the next five the course of the battle. [BOMBS FALLING] [BOMBS EXPLODING] McClusky's group that hit, one truck near the bridge that The Kaga is Within minutes, fighters and arrive. They dive and attack three hits on the port side. They strike their off a chain reaction the entire ship in flames. The next target is command ship, the Akagi. US fighters strike the planes waiting to take off. A Japanese sailor would later Nagumo is forced to Akagi to the light and radios Yamamoto with Only one carrier and only because it was of the Japanese fleet. The battle is slipping away He launches an air 18 dive bombers and six fighters but the Japanese en route by American fighters. 14 Japanese planes and at noon, they the Yorktown, setting ablaze within minutes. The Yorktown is damaged Nevertheless, Admiral to the nearby heavy over his command of the battle aboard the Enterprise. Meanwhile, a second wave headed to strike the Nearly the same Americans intercept the Japanese to take down a few planes. Five Japanese torpedo bombers two blows on the Yorktown. The carrier tilts 26 degrees deck almost touching the water. At 14:55, Captain Elliott In retaliation, all available dive bombers now only 72 miles out 40 unescorted Dauntlesses take the fighters left behind The American bomber It takes several critical It is the final surprise for Major combat is over. Although small over the next two days, the won the Battle of Midway. Both sides sustained major even more so. By the best estimates, lost 2,500 servicemen, 292 along with their four The Americans the Yorktown, one destroyer, 145 What was the impact of The Japanese abandoned their and would remain on the defense The American victory exemplified of code breaking and The tide of the war shifted. The Japanese military had The US military and were energized for the first The Japanese could be would be the ones to do it. [MUSIC PLAYING]