This weekend, we are going to our first Canadian van life meetup which is really crazy. We're gonna see what the difference might be from the US to Canada. But first, we have to get things done in this van. Right now, we've been trying to waterproof these windows. As you guys know, we fiberglassed them back in Tennessee. Let's do this! These stupid freaking windows That didn't exactly work All of a sudden I heard, &quot;snap:. Cracked the window So now we've got three layers of Flex Seal on them this is a temporary solution for now until we can possibly find windows. I think that's Frank's hope. I'm just hoping that it stays leak free. I would worry about these windows anymore because these Apparently, it's not all the way fixed. This is a city fill right here and there's like a check valve in it and that check valve is like rubbed out a bit in certain spots so it needs to create a better seal. Let's see. Well now I clicked it, now I have to get it to stop leaking Full splatter What is really bothering me about the van right this minute is this freaking thing right here. Come into my home I'll show you why. So obviously at this event we're going to want to be using our kitchen. We're going to be cooking and we're going to be there for two nights actually. This cabinet is getting in the way of all of my chefdum dreams. Here we've got the kitchen area we are going to rebuild this because it kind of sucks too but this is a really really quickly so we need to just do what we can for now. The sink works. The oven works. But then there's nowhere to put anything. The temporary solution would just be to knock out this spot and set it up to where at least we have a countertop. The other thing that I don't like about this cabinet is that from the bed I can't see the door at all even to just know, did I put the window cover up? Is somebody at the door? Really blocking my ability to like feel super safe in the space and also it's just really poorly built. I love great big from one side. This also doesn't latch on anything so when you take a corner really hard, it just flies right out. So right now we've been using a hook system that's over here and then that pulls around and strap. Alex's mom leaned on secure that actually is. Creating an actual latching system is super important in your vans And I don't know how long I would have been able to deal with this whole rubber-band situation Oops! I forgot to put the rubber band. Oh shits everywhere. Stupid. these drawers are the worst built drawers I've ever seen. The way that they stay in is by being on an angle. Literally like a plastic tub. Look, you can even see it's separating right there. We can do better than that Be gone! You have to come on the other side for this one Oh yeah, that makes no sense First problem, it gets it gets like on the top Cool okay. Look at that. Staples holding it together. I didn't notice. That was so messed up. I'm surprised this hasn't just completely collapsed. So today we're gonna rip the whole thing out Watch the whole back. That is bad. This 1985 retro vintage pollution detector detects Paco's farts. It's very effective. Super effective. It's power time baby. oh yeah that's easier Sayonara sucker! I walked my head into that. Look how much more open it is already and we just gotta get rid of the cat door. Don't hit me in the face! Don't hit me in the face! I don't got it then we just gotta figure out We are en route to our first midwifery appointment here in Canada. We had to get on the waitlist back in February which actually was fine because at the time we were in El Salvador They ended up calling me on my birthday. We were in Florida. So now we're back in Ontario we got our health card and we're gonna go see the midwife. What a gift on your birthday, right? I didn't really know the difference between the OBGYN and the midwife. After learning, I personally feel a little bit more comfortable with a midwife but we're about to go and find out so you are too. Come on! By the way, we're in my dad's sporty little sports car. I've always dreamed of having a really natural birth process outside of the hospital best way for me to feel comfortable going through this whole experience. It feels like the back is on this side right now with feet kind of over here. I get kicking like over here yeah Because we don't have our own home or even a van to deliver in right now, this birthing suite at the midwifery clinic is going to be perfect. I know I don't know can you deliver in This is where we're going to have a baby! I know. Can you deliver in the tub if you wanted to? Yes. Does it look good? Do you like it? Looks great. Yeah. Good morning. It's van-build time! Frank's about to get murdered by me It's about to go down! I shouldn't be happy about that. We need to get our serious faces on Please don't hurt me I won't as long as you stop trying to take super up-close photos of my face What are you talking about? I'm not doing that Today, we are finally getting to building the cabinet. The smoke in Ontario has been so bad that we couldn't build outside. We shouldn't have even been outside. We shouldn't be outside right now. We have to build this cabinet because we're getting to the event this weekend and we need a cabinet. - Let's do what we do best and get to building. You want me to straighten out that piece Yes, I do. Look at him remembering all my wishes and hopes and dreams. Thanks, babe. You're welcome, sweetie. Hold on. You're a pregnant carpenter? Just be careful with that baby all right we've had to buy a fair number of tools since we got to Canada because on our first build, we were working basically outside of Frankie's brother's house On our second build, we were working at Adaptive Humanities house. Luckily, we had Matt's dad. We had a dad to help us. Perfect timing. He's good at math even when he's sleeping And now for our third build, my family has no tools. They've got some random bits and bobs but like nothing that builds a van. We've had to drop some Canadian toonies and loonies to get a couple of tools Tell you what, I feel like a toony not a loony anymore because I got some tools now. Does that make any sense? This is our new kreg jig right here. I don't know how to use it and I'm not reading the instructions. No this is our only wood, Frank! Oh my goodness, he got mad at me for not measuring right. Now he's just gonna drill holes I'm just going to go for it. Why not? -It's all good. Looks good, no? - Oh, that's money. Damn! You know, it's probably just fresh. We'll take care of that real quick. I feel like vans were made of pocket holes. Do you think you cut it backward? I might have turned it around. Moment of truth Oh my God, it's perfect. Nice job! This next tool upgrade won't set you back too many Benjamins. Between the no electricity in our vents, we're on our air conditioner this portable camping fan from Setpower has been a lifesaver for us. Not only can we use this Smartele fan plugged in in the garage, you can also take it into the van without needing a big long extension cord because it's got a lithium battery. - This battery lasts 30 hours on a single two-hour charge. I gave it a good whack You smacked it. and it does have a one-year warranty That part's probably not covered under warranty. If you're a fan nerd and know your tech specs, it's got 2500 CFM high-performance airflow. It's waterproof. It's got non-slip rubber feet and hooks so you could hook it onto the wall and the most amazing part about it is that when you're using your chop saw when you're using your fan at the same time And if that's not enough, you can even use the USB to charge your cell phone. And with its five blades, you never have to worry about this. Don't try that at home. And we got a simple way for you 10% off you're Smartele fan right now. Use code fnavanlife at checkout. This van is so powerful it might even blow you back in time. This whole thing is gone. It looks like crap right now but we're heading on our first Canadian adventure and we're really excited. We have to make a pit stop really quick because there's gonna be a potluck. You can't show up to a potluck empty-handed so we're at The Biggest Apple in all of Ontario, probably Canada. The Big Apple in Colburn, Ontario has been an icon on the 401 highway since the year I was born. Since then, it's grown into a must visit destination on any road trip. Not a giant peach. It's a giant apple. - Come on, James definitely lives in this thing. no, I'm talking about the guy that lives in the Peach. So who lives in the apple? Nobody - That's not true a worm lives in the Apple. There's always a worm in an apple. w What they're actually cooking up is delicious baked goods. There's a lot of pies and just like Bucc-ee's in the States, they've we were excited and a little bit nervous to get to our first Canadian meetup. We only knew Jamie and Lisa, the organizers. But we're sure we're gonna make some new friends along the way I'm gonna pickleball it up, baby. It's been a oh and we played pretty good. We won nine three. I did not. I was over here chatting and socializing like you're supposed to do at a van life meetup and so I'm glad that we won. That was a &quot;we&quot;, right babe? Always and it should be the same way for me. - It smells very good. - Oh my God, you have to have on Grank. I know smell it oh wow that does actually smell really good I'll try one just because it's a celebration. Paco, what do you think? Don't lick that! Did he have it? He tried to drink it. He licked the outside. I have one itchy eyeball now because of the mosquitos here. Everyone says Alaska is bad with mosquitos. No, Canada is bad with mosquitos. That's why you got to take a shot to keep the mosquitoes away. I said you gotta wait. It's gonna be a cheers for everybody You know what, Frankie? I got the bottle. She's calling me out! You got it? Are you going to hang out? Okay. We can hang out a little bit. You're best friends. Are you okay with that? Do you want to play pickleball? Can we drink yet? Sip, sip, sip! That's pretty good. It kind of tastes like Bath and Body Works to me so that's how it refined the Canadians are. they take the shot glass and they say it's a sipper. What a night! What a great feeling to feel like we're back in the community. You know, you don't realize how much you miss it until you're back out and on the road and I still absolutely hate our kitchen so that's gonna be our one setting and it's hot AF so you really have to be watching it or everything just burns. The prep area would work much better if I actually brought a cutting board but I didn't hindsight hindsight. There's a lot of things that we forgot. We borrowed this from a neighbor because we didn't have any olive oil. We've also borrowed some butter, some bread. We're supposed to be the most like OG van lifers here and we are just completely unprepared when it comes ti that. So we say, do as we say not as we do, you know. That's the key. Paco is obviously the star of the show and everybody's in love with him but they've also been giving him lots of random treats and stuff so this dog is farting up a storm bad. Yo girl, what are you cooking up over here? I don't know yet. We are enjoying our conversation area over here. A little airplane mode. This is the only other area of the van that we've rebuilt so far and I actually love it. It's so nice to sit in and just hang out. one part we really loved about the where Van Lifer's new and old could share stories and advice for the road It was an amazing weekend but eventually all the fun had to come to an end - I thought we were leaving. to stay idle and we could get her started. It seems like we're just gonna have to get the show on the road because every time we let her try to sit and idle she just shuts down. It's like the movie Speed where you for the whole drive home. For us, it's only She drives it's so shitty Well, this has never happened before I don't know. She's blowing a lot of smoke Oh no This is our first stop sign. I'm not gonna test it here though. That was just because I had it idling and I threw it in drive. I'm gonna test it when we get back to the house that way I know for sure that you know But I'm feeling a little nervous right now. I don't know if we're gonna make it. You know, luckily a lot of it's highways so it's really the stop signs that I'm worried about because it's the idle aspect to it. Seems to I just don't know. An interesting end to what was otherwise an amazing weekend at our first van life Canada meetup. I feel like we'll make it home and if we don't we will know.