In 2012, a new particle was Collider. Physicists believe that the been found. But what's the big deal with [THEME MUSIC] We saw in a previous of the mass in your body, in that's made of from the mass of the The electrons, and comprise protons and neutrons, but this is only run 1% Most of the atom's mass is the energy of those quarks. Now, today I want to talk about of the elementary particles. I want to show you mass is still just bound In the case of the it comes from the Higgs field. So, let's get to the bottom To understand how we're going to need to learn Just the basics for now. We'll get into it in Now, QFT describes the as excitations in fields, fields For example, the in the electron field. Imagine that every has a certain level In empty space, that But even in a vacuum, the But now, add some energy to and it's like plucking The field vibrates, and that And it's not just electrons. Every elementary in its own field, and interact with each other, charge, et cetera, between Now, this is a very of a theory that has accurate description of Given its incredible that quantum field theory, gave a perfect description and yes predicted that the The basic QFT equations of leave them massless. As we'll see in the this masslessness should travel only at the no time. Their clocks should be frozen. But these particles are They evolve. Take the electron. It has this type of spin that we call chirality, be clockwise or counterclockwise of motion. We call this left-handedness Now, that spin constantly The electron evolves, meaning so it must have mass. Also, we've weighed it. We've measured But a different sort is the only way that we know mass, and it was the oscillations the won the Now, take the photon. It is definitely massless. It travels at the and it experiences its entire It undergoes no It has spin, but the A photon only changes if it But the photon and both just excitations so why does the electron Why does the electron evolve? There are different but perhaps the that while the photon can universe without bumping the electron is never There's something in the that impedes the electron. It's the Higgs field. To understand how this to this spin flip thing. Here, I need to tell you about the universe. It's not ambidexterous. It actually cares left or right-handed chirality. See, left-handed electrons have something compared to It's called weak was the name of my high It's like regular which lets all electrons feel except in this case, it lets the weak nuclear force. This cosmic asymmetry and it's part of a mystery It's an open question why the you're spinning. In fact, it cares so much that from left to right unless it or flip back again unless But where does this charge come You probably guessed, The Higgs field is really weird. While most quantum fields hover the Higgs field has at all points in the universe. There's a little bit of In some stunning this complex, not only carries the but manages to take on all simultaneously. This makes the Higgs and sink of weak hyper-charge. Now, poor electron is bombarded into and out of the Higgs giving and taking away the weak short time scales. On its own, the electron but trapped in this Higgs field Honestly, this is a An invisible and infinite of charge that we've invented so that electrons at the same time? How do we know it's true? Well, something like because all of the rest hangs together too well. We conclude that QFT but it's an incomplete theory The Higgs field is the best, But how do we prove it? Enter the Higgs boson. Just like the other can vibrate around which gives us the boson. This particle to do with giving anything mass. However, if we then it means the Finding the Higgs boson of the Large Hadron Collider. Now, that's a topic well the TLDR. In 2012, the LHC spotted by the decay of an and those decay with the disintegration of the It seems very did produce the Higgs mean that the field exists. The whole story is now But there's still a The Higgs boson is and it decays in around 10 to which makes it very difficult Could the Higgs field like dark energy, inflation? There are reasons We'll come back to For now, we'll be delving of matter and time in the In the last episode, to build a real Some of you had some AFastidiousCuber wants to grow if anything falling into crosses the event horizon. So, although an outside observer cross the event horizon, as the light it emits is red that it effectively So, infalling stuff does that an outside grow because anything adds to its effective mass even before it crosses Casterverus would like to horizon that we talk as the Schwarzschild radius. Well, that's exactly right. The Schwarzschild of the event horizon of and it depends on the mass. Any object that below its own Schwarzscihld For the sun, that's For the Earth, it's For a person, it's of the radius of a proton. Gareth Dean asks about using gravitational the core temperature of a star. OK, so gravitational waves carry can get dumped into a star as the gravitational Now, stars near the core super massive black holes raised by an observable amount There's a link in WR3ND says, &quot;It only took to find the smart kid's table.&quot; Glad you finally We saved you a seat. [MUSIC PLAYING]