I've come face to face with a God. He lives If you've played the game Skyward Sword, spirit of the skies, is a pretty awe-inspiring I spent hours circling around this deity, at could reach out and touch it. So, you can imagine a game set thousands of years He's dead. There are many stories in which divine beings dies? Would they... decompose, their godly forms their figures forever changing the surrounding themselves? Would they ever really die? Giant is about -- well, a drowned giant, obviously. an otherwise ordinary beach near a small town, the narrator and other locals cannot ignore or body came from, it's at first treated as a deity, something changes. This colossus, be it god the spell is broken. The townspeople swarm the as if trying to reestablish their own importance days, animals descend upon the carcass as remains. Though disturbed by the general lack of the urge to climb upon the corpse himself. The is what strips away its godhood in the eyes of dead deity. In most classical mythologies, dying god is their immortality, their permeance. The that something so powerful in life must still motionless. Soon, people see it as just another should be disposed of. They eventually decide piece by piece. The Drowned Giant is ultimately being can be disrespected and forgotten, no matter gaze upon the corpse of a god you did not know god before it falls, and know a god after. In the numerous that it's actually hard to keep track of which makes things simpler by turning all landscape. The reasons for this are -- too much to straightforward. Here are the shells of beings in the series. The game doesn't draw attention Xenoblade is, on balance, a pretty loud franchise. background. Most characters don't even remember about Levias' corpse in Breath of the Wild -- you pile of bones -- is the fact that no one seems to who debate his identity, but they assume he was him to be. But I really can't judge, because there throughout this game. When I first saw these, I they're actually the remains of other whale gods didn't even know about. For beings that were once fate. These gods haven't just died... they've been the deities of the God of War saga. In the current gods and other divine beings regularly reshape these games capture is just astounding, creating then, that the experience that stuck in my mind one. Midway through the first game in the Norse Thamur. Though technically a giant rather than a to challenge Thor himself, a power so great, decaying, Thamur's body emits a maelstrom of an effect you can see from miles away. His sheer first fell. This idea is also present in the Greek member had an immediate and apocalyptic effect on the fallen gods discussed so far, Thamur still cadaverous grip. You don't just observe the though -- you have to climb it. And the act of was one of the townsfolk from The Drowned Giant, than any of the series' most gonzo action beats. I tried clambering up the leviathan skeletons, in comparison. And that even in death, these doesn't seem like there's a dead god in the game filling every inch of your thoughts -- is the is to reach the summit. As in God of War, the of worship. Every handhold is a prayer, every Jusant also requires you to make these leaps where you're suspended on nothing but a rope and in these moments that you can get the closest to to comprehending the extent of its power. You you make your way up this peak, cultures that rose in the art these societies have left behind that the people who lived upon its form, this mountain There is a sense that the present-day peak is a The wreckage of boats, fishing equipment, and a vast ocean once surrounded this region. The for a period of low tide, supports this narrative. this drought came from human activity throwing the and we have killed it. There is a polluted, Its name is Mount Everest. Actually, its name "Goddess Mother of the World." The name Everest a man who famously disliked the idea of a deified stuck with the English-speaking world -- and so too hundreds of people climb to the summit every year, following well-traveled routes. Yet Chomolungma or In his book Into Thin Air, author Jon Krakauer disaster, a blizzard in which eight climbers also not uncommon. Since the 1920s, over three peak -- a staggering one third of whom have been indigenous to the Himalayan subregion. Outsiders the top of the mountain. Edmund Hillary, often did so alongside Sherpa mountaineer Tenzing inconsistent safety measures, often carrying much and food containers, literal tons of garbage have a god, tourists have left her body disfigured of "Into Thin Air," Krakauer relays the account of mountain, stating: "Outsiders find their way into by standing on top of her, crowing in victory, climbing Everest is clearly not an act of worship. mountain in Horizon: Zero Dawn. I could tell there when I looked up and saw these eldritch metal mechanical intestines. A post-apocalyptic civilization -- the skeletons of buildings and cars benign. The only thing menacing about them is humanity. But the ruins on the holy mountain don't the exterior of the mountain that the survivors a chamber containing a god called All-Mother. this god is a fragment of ancient technology, an apocalyptic danger. The tentacled corpse smote it isn't called a god. It's called the the story of what happened to the world starts to has a very different presence than the corpse of Valley of the Wind," civilization was wiped out by God Warriors -- although most survivors now see and Horizon, there are characters who seek power rotting, long-fallen devils against their enemies. each narrative, attempts to wield these demonic the characters inevitably losing control, undone destroyed the world. It's no accident that both framing them as the consequence of disrespecting corpses feel like humanity's punishment for its own fallen god. There's a decomposing colossus Leviathan. And it's not the giant, mysterious at least, not entirely. The true deity putrefying a societal one. All of civilization that we see the inside out, infested with governmental reference to the Hobbesian Leviathan, or at least one buys into for a nation to function. In the ships like ribcages collapse upon the shore. A circulatory system, all the workers inside along before the inevitable. A condemned first by stragglers and then by the apex not technically set in the post apocalypse, and is only now beginning to stink. I think part struck such a chord with me... has less to do with state of the world around them. Though it doesn't post-apocalyptic narrative, set after a calamity is embodied in the appearance of another deity in represented by a shining statue -- fitting for an the statue of Hylia is overgrown, forgotten ago. It's a testament to how much of the world has really mourning. Not just Levias, but the larger, a Hobbesian one, but the kind of community that must a dead god represent an end, or could it also there are stories where a god's death brings new which something new is built. The Marvel Comics celestial -- basically that universe's equivalent an entire civilization thrives on the bones of a bunch in this video, but in nature, rotting isn't remains of a leviathan like a whale can feed events are called whalefalls, and while I talk it's worth reiterating just how much life their skeletons becoming miniature ecosystems. Has kind of godly skeleton that produces another kind is the Lost River, a noxious environment flooded fallout are the bones of the Gargantuan Leviathan, lifeforms it borders on the divine. There's a creating this poisonous brine, that it's power even here, there are creatures that have adapted seem to flourish down here, their entire lifecycle a polluted, adversarial Leviathan is a struggle, polluted holy sites are rarely abandoned by the on how many sacred bodies of water or mountains quick search shows you the numbers are in the sites are still visited regularly by individuals way of life. And most of these sacred landmarks despite the severity of its trash accumulation, it would require effort, a change in the way these Hyper Light Drifter is a game about fighting fallen titans before you. At least, I think that's contain a single line of dialogue, communicating environmental storytelling. And the visuals that of the Titans. These immense beings lie scattered it's disheartening to say the least. Because the character you play as, seemingly related to evidence the Titans weren't the nicest creatures, what chance do you have? The theme of Hyper Light designer Alx Preston was born with a deteriorating for the game's presentation. You can also see this and in the giant, literal Titan's heart you continues to beat. Like the drowned giant, one pieces, and yet its fractured parts continue to by the way -- knew Hyper Light Drifter might be and created something that will last into the narrator is surprised to find some of the its scattered parts becoming structures and its influence is not. It reminds me of a story in God of War, in the original Norse myth called Ymir. Following his death, Ymir's body "Out of Ymir's flesh was fashioned the earth, and the cold frost giant's skull, and the ocean out of body of a fallen leviathan, even if it isn't the to wish Levias had stayed the same. I don't know fed on his remains. Levias still exists, both in because he's from a video game but, you know, still endures. Though much of Breath of the Wild's survivors from which a community could remerge. for the god of the skies he once was, but for the have always had a sense of decaying divinity, and is now decomposing. Even the brightest also a consistent sense that not all is lost yet, came before. "The giant is still alive for me," Giant. "I often dream of his resurrection. town... picking up the fragments of himself on his for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please hitting the notification icon to stay up to date