Thanks to Novium for sponsoring today's video, Have you ever been lying in your bed, the grand unifying theory of everything. the unifying theory of everything is world. There is a great schism in our and the scientist who finds the answer will be the it leads to some pretty passionate as everyone tries to figure out what that Here's what they're arguing about. The way things doesn't seem to carry over to the micro-level we have gravity and special relativity. with probability waves and particles seem to be real, solid objects. The issue is, both ways of interpreting Quantum physics is scarily good at predicting outpacing special relativity with ease. But of planets, of gravity and the passage of at helping us put a satellite into orbit, exist at tiny levels, or why things Scientists think that this is a more general theory that might explain the works. But to find it, we'll need a major Newton's gravity to Einstein's space curvature. crack at it myself? and you're watching Astrum. Join with me today A disclaimer to begin with. As has been the ideas I'm going to talk about here are highly some of the conclusions at the end But when you hear what I have to say, I think you'll find yourself convinced that follow me on a quest to find the answer to Naturally, a unified theory of everything is but let's start with some initial foundational talk about why I personally think they are true. No, not that kind of model. I'm not here for high explains why things are the way they are. Quantum of confidence in the maths, but when you ask them what waveform collapses and probability rates offer a clear answer other than telling me That's what the math talks about. on very tiny scales? What is a probability when you get down to the smallest levels, I'm not the first to seek such answers, so One of science's attempts to answer those also in the end extremely frustrating: String since the 70's, and still hasn't quite provided Let's quickly delve into what it's talking about, theory later. Rather than seeing the world in is made up of tiny little strings connected to of a guitar, they form waves and harmonics, which facets of quantum mechanics, and indeed the reason At large levels, you might not notice this. If you by putting a semi-transparent shade and again and again. However, if you keep doing suddenly you can't go any further. You can have some reason, the quantum universe likes things one energy level, or another, but not a value in String theory fitted this idea well, as If you pluck a string, it's possible to get a the whole string going up and down. This is it with two arcs, with a stationary point in the harmonics as you like, each one representing you can't have the first and a half harmonic. a string with a vibrating standing wave but nothing in between - just like This was a promising start, but string theory information attached to them. It was realised that could potentially account for this information, these strings. A string could vibrate up and down, such as its charge. Or it could vibrate in could represent another facet. And the the more information you could encode Of course, anyone familiar with 3D space will side to side, there aren't really any other without messing with the already as particles needed to be able to change their other properties. You need to be able to influence string theorists figured out that the best way more dimensions. And so, 4D space was brought And for many this is perhaps where as a contender for the unifying theory. theory in academia today, and depending on the types of electrons, quarks, and every other 11 or 10 dimensions. This might feel like a lot confusing. But the theoretical basis for 4D about how time might well be our 4th dimension; it's well worth a watch. Suffice it you can't really see a third dimension. If a 4th dimension. But that's no reason to say time in spite of remaining in place in 3D space Many of you might think anything more than 4 or measure, is just too whacky a concept But I say, once you open the door to extra there's really no reason why you can't how many dimensions there are, as I don't that myself. You can go with whatever number you so maybe it's that. But there really saying there are 7 extra dimensions you String theory is thought to be one grand unifying theory of everything. And on it. Why? Because although the maths that string theory is so far completely unprovable. they look like points to us. There's no way we there or not. And nothing about string theory away and test. Scientists have been looking And yet, I think this is a model that's particles not just as points, but as ripples on to arise that line up with what we see in the Here at Astrum, we're not quite Here's an observation that struck us If some version of string theory is right, mass are nothing more than a direction a think of mass like this in layman's circles. You its heft. Why would you think an incredibly famous equation you've almost You know it. It's e=mc2. This incredibly simple equation was formulated by speed of light, no matter your frame of reference. When I was younger and I saw this equation, you want to turn a certain amount of mass into a it by a really large number - the speed of light, large number. Which made sense, as turning mass I thought no more of it. It was simply a value It told us that mass and energy were really but not much more than that. But look again at caught my eye. Why c? Why not another arbitrarily this, about balancing the units, but a distance travelled over time. This equation and it's easy to see in that example the radiation goes flying out in all directions in equal to it already going a distance over of however much mass you had to start with. If it's all just motion, then it makes sense that different directions of travel. Equivalent, in the the same as a string vibrating left and right. here. It's c2. So rather than a vector line, nuance leads us into an exploration of to advance us into territory that will take far topic of another video. Suffice it to say, this But one thought to leave you with, when theory once it finally does appear. It see in the universe. Gravity. Entropy, and and quantum uncertainty. Black holes. Whatever it will need to account for all of it - all will foundation you started off with. A line of I'm going to try and explain how these all What do you think so far? Although I've only already a bit too out there, or unsubstantiated, directions of travel in other dimensions really or is this just a conceptual dead end? Leave Either way, I've more to share in my theory of everything. We've only seen the tip of the iceberg of why I think this idea is If you haven't been able to tell from this video, inspiring to me, but it seems that's something I Novium. Novium's Hoverpen Interstellar edition best inventions of 2022, is heavily inspired by their biggest discount of the year. Their unique, forces to lean untouched at a perfect 23.5 degree axis of the Earth. The hoverpen comes in a Starlight Silver, Mars Magma and Neptune Blue. Edition with its 18 carat gold plate, or one with good - I also found its metallic feel and sculpted it's the perfect high end space gift to inspire it to. Besides, who else can say they have a scan the QR code or follow my link in the 10% off all hoverpen purchases, and along with Thanks for watching, don't forget to subscribe here's another brain scratcher to keep you if you want your name proudly displayed check the links in the description.