Hello, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO KITCHEN. It has become quite cold in France, and the central heating has been turned on in the apartment. So I cleared away the things from the top of the radiator in a hurry. In the morning, I make a day's worth of hot tea. The tea is burdock tea, which has various benefits such as boosting the immune system. A friend brought it for me from Japan in the summer. I like it because it's not only good for your health, but also tastes good. We are going on a short trip today, so I also prepare a thermos with tea in it. Do you want to know how the new cat Yuzu is getting on? She's quite aggressive, and she chases Kurumi and Tola around. So we're trying her get used to them a little at a time by putting a leash on her... We haven't been able to take any holidays this summer, and we are feeling a bit tired lately. So, to change our mood, we've decided to go to a farm outside Paris. We are heading for the Viltain Farm, a farm located 17km outside of Paris. I heard that we can harvest all sorts of vegetables by ourselves, so it will be a good field trip! The Viltain Farm is in sight. Look, it says "apples, pumpkins" in huge letters. That's amazing. You are right. That sounds promising. Oh, there's more signs. Look! Oh, great! That's great. Yay, yay! There's a 30km limit here... This is all farmland, right? Yes. It's right here. I think this is it. Oh, but it's super flooded. I wonder if it's okay. Well, it looks like we need to go further... But there are a lot of cars here. Humm... Hello. We're here for the first time, so we don't know what to do. You've come for the apples, pumpkins, flowers? Mainly for apples and flowers. Flowers, you have them there all the way through. Yes. You see the space for flowers and there's also there. There are roses further on too. I see. For apples, we have some under the barn and also in the paddocks, They're at a certain price. All right. Otherwise on the other side, you have the orchards. You have lots of apple trees, lots of varieties and my colleague over there will explain. I see. Thank you very much. -Goodbye, good picking to you. Thank you. So, it seems like we should just harvest it ourselves. Yes. We should pick flowers later, and there's a lot of vegs like this. True. The tomatoes are over there. I see. And she said &quot;there are many green beans,&quot; right? Yes. For now, let's try going this way. Okay. Oh, this is kind of fun, Tsu-san. -I'm glad. It's amazing that so many different vegetables can be grown in such a large area. Yes. It's tough when it turns out like this, though. That's true. When it rains heavily. -I wonder if the Seine River is having issues too. So deep, like this. Isn't this crazy? It's like we are rice planting now. Do they just wait for it to dry out? Yes, probably. What else could they do? Oh, look, I found some salad greens here. Looks delicious. Yes. It's a Batavia, our favourite kind. That's true. This is pretty good, isn't it? Yes. Look... How should I pick this? Cut it? Pull it out? Oh, that came off easily. Ta-da! -Wow. It looks so fresh. Yes. Do you want to eat some salad, Tsu-san? I'm fine, later. -Okay. Yay! Now we've arrived at the apple orchard. Yes. Oh, I found a red apple, Tsu-san! Look. Look, there's a lot of them! Oh, you're right. Maybe the ones further back are better. Let's go over there. But these apples right here, they look super delicious, Tsu-san. Look, there. Oh, Yes, I can get them. Oh, I can reach them! Look, it looks delicious. Here you go. We can still pick more. Ah, isn't this great? Do you want to try it, Tsu-san? Oh, it's okay. I'll do it later. Wow, I didn't know apples grew like this. Look at Mamiko picking so many apples! Well, apples can last three months. See, we can pick so many, Tsu-san. Ah, there's already a ton of apples harvested over here. It's a funny image. It's really a funny image. -I wonder if you'll make apple pie. I want to eat apple pie. Look, this area is promising. I didn't know apples grew so many. -You're right. Tsu-san, can you grab those three? That one. That one. What's going on with this? Oh no. Wow, you got two! Tsu-san's first apple harvest. Tsu-san's first apple. There's someone walking from a distance. How far did you go? I went to that end of the farm over there. What, you went all the way to the end? I had to go there to find this. Wow, that's amazing. Please deliver this to the capital... There were a lot over there. -Oh, really? I went back, and there were still plenty left. Oh, really? Then shall we go? Hey, there's a step ladder here, Tsu-san. Yes, we discovered a lot of things. Yep. Mamiko is learning more and more. Oh, wow, Mamiko's up really high. Be careful! Looks fun. It's fun. Why are we harvesting so many apples like we're farmers? No, everyone's having like three boxes. -No way! Because they'll last for three months. I see. I suppose they harvest a lot and store them in cellars. That makes sense. They won't have to worry about apples anymore. Plus, you can make jam and stuff with them. You can also make compote with them. So, it really makes sense why grandmas send them from the countryside. When you think about it, one box is really not that much. After all, eating one apple a day keeps the doctor away. Oh, she's moving it on her own. Wow, amazing. Nice! That was a good ending pose. Okay, the problem is... Oh, I got it! Oh right, we can put the box there, Well, how much do you plan to harvest? Wait a minute. I just keep harvesting apples.... Please deliver this to the capital for me... That's a huge amount, really. Are you going again? Well, it's better to fill it up, right? Yes... That's a lot piled up. But when they send it from Aomori, isn't it usually like this? Have you ever had it sent? No. Well, shall we go? -Should we go this way? Oh, but before that, Tsu-san, there's turnip. Oh, yes. It looks nice. Ta-da! Oh, that's adorable. Yes. It's pretty easy to pick. -Really? Ah, there's a big one here too. Look. Oh, you're right. But Tsu-san, you don't really like turnips, do you? Well, but lately, I like the pickled turnips you maked. -Those are delicious! Oh, there are a lot of turnips here. Yes. Turnips~ They come out like this, huh? -Yes. I thought so too. They're coming out? They are. Or did they dig them out of the ground? No, I don't think they've dug it out. They probably don't have time for that. -Everyone's busy here, right? It's pretty, the purple colour. Of course, I'll take the leaves home too. -So, is this enough? Oh, look, I see some leek-like leaves there, so probably around here. Isn't that it, Tsu-san? Oh, that could be it. I love leeks too, you know. Yes, I know. I love leeks. You really like leeks. Here it is, Tsu-san. It's huge! Yes, it's amazing. Wow, there's a flag saying &quot;leeks&quot;, though it's flipping up. Wow! So cool! So many leeks! Looks like everyone is cutting off the green parts here. Yes, but the green parts are usable too. What a waste! Well, not all of them, right? Oh, but this area is off-limits, so this is the only place we can harvest. I didn't know that leeks have such an imposing look. Look how thick some of them are! Tsu-san. Should I try this one? Look! Oh, wow, it came out! Nice! -Ta-da! But it's true that there are a lot of green parts, so I can see that they say, &quot;Oh, this isn't edible,&quot; and cut them off. That's not true! If you stir-fry them, they'll taste good. Plus, you can use them to get rid of strong odours when simmering. Tsu-san loves leeks... I do love leeks! Oh, another one came out. It's coming out pretty easily. It just pops right out. -Oh, really? For now, before searching for the ultimate leek, let's focus on this first. The ultimate leek... I found a thin one. Did you find the ultimate leek? Yes! The ultimate one! Ultimate? Oh, three of them with beautiful shapes! -Three of them? Because they're small, so I didn't count one of them. -Is this enough? We've got quite a lot. Yes. Alright, oh, it's heavy. Now, let's see if we can find some flowers. Yes. Look, it's amazing, Tsu-san! It really is! There is a place where you can buy vegetables that have already been harvested. There should be some potatoes over there, too. -Right, let's grab a few more. Hey, Tsu-san, isn't this Chinese cabbage? Oh, you're right! I want to take a Chinese cabbage home. We can make kimchi with it. If we get used to it, we might end up buying everything here. Oh, look at that, it's green beans! Oh, you're right! It's piled high! Potatoes are like this, Tsu-san. Oh, wow! What should we do? Do we need this much? I guess so... But it's not something that spoils easily, so it's fine. That's true, but if it gets warm, it'll sprout. There were a lot of onions here. Let's buy some onions. Let's buy onions. And there was rhubarb, too. Do you want rhubarb? Nah, I just thought Mamiko would like it. But I don't have the time to take care of them now... Onions run out quickly, you know. Garlic, too. We should buy some garlic too, right? Yes. The pumpkins come in all different shapes. You're right, it's so strange. They really do have strange shapes. Here you go. That's amazing. Well, let's go to the flower section. Wow--there are so many beautiful flowers! -It's great! -Wonderful. Such beautiful flowers! There are also buds. Well, let's see... Lovely, that's great! -Here you go. Gorgeous. It really is gorgeous. Alright, let's go now. Are you satisfied? -Yes, let's go. And let's get the potatoes. Alright. Potatoes... When I put the potatoes on, they were surprisingly heavy! The apple juice by the register looked so delicious that we couldn't help reaching for it. The products are sold by weight. Those we had harvested ourselves was sold at a reduced price. We bought so much, but it's so cheap we are surprised! As soon as we got home, Kurumi was sniffing around the apples. I decided to use a brown vase to create a chic atmosphere. The entrance hall has become much more cheerful! Now I prepare the ingredients for the jam. I also mix in figs from a friend's garden. I add 30% of the total amount of fruit sugar. When the water has been extracted from the fruit, I will add the lemon and simmer it. There are many ways for cats to relax in the evening. Maybe because she's young, Yuzu plays all day without taking a nap Well, it's time to start preparing dinner. Today's main dish is a stir-fry of potatoes from the farm, bacon and mushrooms. First of all, let's make some miso soup. I cut up the dashi pack I got as a gift and put the contents straight in. Add the leeks and when they are boiled, add the home-made chickpea miso and it's done. Side dish 1 is easy Chawanmushi (non-sweet egg custard). Add 2 eggs in a bowl, 300ml water, 2 tsp dashi soy sauce and a pinch of salt, mix all together. Put a teaspoon of Brie cheese into each container, then add the egg mixture. After adding the mitsuba leaves, cover with aluminium foil and place them in an electric pressure cooker with about 1cm of water. Heat for 1 minute in high pressure mode. Once the pressure has dropped, it's done. The side dish 2 is a salad of apples and salad greens that we harvested today. Finally, let's make the main stir-fry. Slice the four mushrooms, and cut three peeled potatoes into long sticks. Similarly, cut one thick slice of bacon into long sticks. Add oil to a frying pan over a medium heat and fry the bacon. When the bacon fat has come out, add a clove of minced garlic and potatoes, and fry well. When the potatoes are translucent, add the mushrooms and fry everything together. Then add 1 tablespoon of soy sauce and a knob of butter. When the butter has melted, sprinkle on pepper and it's done. Add the miso soup to the bowl with the dried wakame. Now, it's time for dinner! -Thank you for waiting. Looks delicious. -Let's take this off. So thoughtful. I need to get a glass of wine, too. Sorry about that. Wow, it looks delicious. Incredible! Today's dishes mainly use vegetables from the farm. You certainly used them in most of the dishes. Well, Everything? Everything. It's not in the Chawanmushi, though. Alright. Okay, bon appetit ! Wow, it looks delicious. I love potatoes. I love German food, especially breakfast. I've forgotten what German breakfast was like. I remember it being very filling, both in terms of quantity and content. -Was it? How's it? It's delicious. I'm glad to hear that. This is the type of potato that I like. I like the crispy yet fluffy texture. This is really tasty. I used to eat this a lot when I was a kid. -Really? Why? My mom used to make it for us often. Oh, I see. But as I got older, I started worrying about my weight and stopped eating potatoes, so I kind of forgot about this dish. Ah, carbs tend to be seen as the enemy of dieting. Right. Make sure to eat the salad, too. Yes, the apple looks delicious. Yes, it's super juicy. When I peeled it, water splashed out. -Really? Don't lie. But it really did feel super juicy. It's amazing. For me, the farm was really an eye-opener. In Japan, the image of a farm where you can pick your own is something like grape picking. I had the impression that it was quite expensive. When I was a kid, I was taken there for fun, just like fishing or other leisure activities. Is it expensive? That was my impression. But I didn't pay for it myself, so I don't know. But here, it's reasonable. Because if you harvest, they give you a discount. It was super cheap and fresh. Yes. It's wonderful, plus you can enjoy nature a bit, too. Yes, I've heard it's fun, so I've always wanted to go. This is delicious, I want to eat more. -Oh, no, I'll eat it all up. But, are you eating, Mamiko? Yes, I am. -Really? Sorry, but this is super delicious. Because I make things for you to eat. Oh, but it's not good... It's OK, because you've been doing yoga lately, right? Yes, I've been interested it for a while. -Yoga? I used to go to classes too. -Oh, really? I also went to yoga on the beach with my mother. Oh, beach yoga? Yes, beach yoga. But I always find it hard to follow the yoga poses. When I'm trying to do the poses, I can't see what the teacher is doing. When they say, &quot;look up and open your chest to the sky,&quot; I can't see the teacher anymore. Well, you can understand how it is, so you just do it. If it's easy one, I can follow that. But eventually it gets complicated, like &quot;bring your right foot back and place your shin on the floor while slowly moving your right foot,&quot; it becomes really difficult. If you look the teacher quickly, you can figure it out. Well, you know, health is wealth. So I'm working on my yoga. But your body is super stiff. Stiff. Stiff like a stone. But I've actually gotten a bit more flexible recently. At first, I couldn't even do the first sun salutation; the forward bend was impossible for me. When they say &quot;place your hands on the ground beside your feet and if it's hard, you can bend your knees&quot;, but I'm almost squatting. It's not just bending my knees; it ends up that I'm in a squat. It's not good; it just builds up fatigue. Why, have you always been so stiff? No, I wasn't particularly flexible in the past either, but I wasn't as stiff as I am now. Oh, really? I have to do it, huh? It's not too late to start now, you know. But you know, we've finally been able to go to the markets, right? Yes. So I realized that going to markets is really fun. You didn't realize that before? Well, I initially went to the nearby supermarkets. Oh, I see. But then, markets are definitely better. Yes, markets are better. I think so too. And it's amazing that you realized that, Tsu-san. Yes, I've really become more conscious. Before dating Mamiko, my awareness was like 30 cm. But now it's like 180 cm. You had never been to a market before? No. I've never bought anything at a market. Seriously, never once, only went for photo shooting. &quot;Today, we shoot in the market.&quot; To me, markets were places just for photo shooting. I probably never went there. No. My awareness was really low, even lower than 30 cm. It was super low. Because I came here for work, I had no intention of enjoying life. Even without thinking about enjoying life, supermarkets have very limited options. Because I used to eat only broccoli and banana a few other limited things. Oh... But, I don't know about men who come to France, but I think a lot of regular guys are like that. -They just don't go to markets. The current Tsu-san is way stranger. It's not strange. People tell me that. -Who? They say I've become quite stylish. What do they mean by that? They say I've become somewhat neat and tidy. What, before you were all messy? Yes, I was super casual. When I was an assistant, I didn't have time to think about that. Every day was like live or die. I see. Well, with delicious vegetables, you don't really need to season them much anyway. So it's easy. Is that so? You didn't season them? Well, for this, I just added butter, soy sauce, and some pepper. -And it tastes this good? For me, it's important to add some mushrooms. The umami from mushrooms is really important. I think so too, especially since they pair well with potatoes and bacon. There's no way potatoes and bacon wouldn't go well with mushrooms. I think, the three of them must have been lovers in a past life or something. Oh, it's a love triangle? Well, the three of them together. But I think, in my opinion, potatoes and bacon must have been lovers. And the mushroom was the best friend of them. And he was a matchmaker for them. Then he took her best friend's lover? No, that's not that. That would be the worst! No the mushroom wasn't in that position at all; she didn't have that feelings, just friendship. No way, that's definitely not the case. No, it's to bring those two together. I think, behind the scenes, she took some actions. No way, that's too messy... Maybe that messy part is what gives it depth. Because it's a little sticky, you know? I don't want to eat something like that. Is that so? It's not like that. I wonder, but these three... These three are like sisters. Stop making it sound like a messy relationship. Three sisters, huh? Yes, like &quot;Little Women&quot;, that kind of refreshing vibe. But it's not refreshing; there's something a little sticky about it. Aren't they three guys? I can't imagine that. It's so gross! It's all about friendship and passion. I think when my mom made it, she used shiitake mushrooms. Ah, but shiitake can be too much. They're delicious, but they have such a strong taste, I know! He's definitely the type to insert himself between the two in their romance. Well, like you, Tsu-san. It really pushes its way in. It butts in and messes up the two's marriage. Like how Tsu-san pushes right in between Tola and me. Yes, because I feel ignored. I hate that. You push right into the fun we're having, Tola and me. It's annoying, right? It's super annoying. I think, why does Tola get more attention than me? That's just how it is. I absolutely don't want that. I want to be the one treated the best. I want to be the one treated the best. Tola is the most important since he's a cat. I don't really get that. Hmm, this is amazing. I didn't expect you to like it that much; I thought it would be just okay. I don't think there's a guy who dislikes this. Is that so? Yes, I'm sure kids would love it too. If you brought this to a youth soccer club's party, it would disappear as quickly as fried chicken. Really? At first, everyone goes for the fried chicken, but then the people who try this go, "Wow, this is great!" and keep coming back, eventually overtaking the fried chicken. Slow but sure wins the race. Is that so? I think so. I mean, using mushrooms was brilliant. Not shiitake but mushrooms; -Oh, but your mom watches this video, right? But back then, there weren't any mushrooms, so it's alright. Well, I think shiitake is good too. Well, I did say I wanted to eat it when I was a kid, so kids might really like it. If there are any parents with kids in the soccer club, definitely... What about baseball? Baseball is fine too. Ice hockey is also good, they should just serve it. I want them to observe which is better, this or fried chicken. Really?! Well, thank you for the meal. I'm glad you like it.