- Hey everyone, hope you're It's Mark Wiens. I'm in Lhasa which is the I've been wanting to visit since I was a kid, and learn of the Potala Palace. But I'm excited to be here. It's an honor to be here. I was invited by Travel China Tibet Tours. Today we are gonna go on an and local food tour of Lhasa. But before we start eating, we are going to visit the Potala Palace which is an unbelievable giant fortress. We're gonna walk to the top. We're gonna tour the fortress but I know you can't take photos and then after that we're gonna be gettin' the ultimate food tour. We're gonna eat some of the I can't wait to share in this video. (upbeat percussive music) Okay, so we're just getting It is a cloudy, slightly rainy but at least not raining right now day. Approaching the base, gonna get through the (crowd chattering) They have quite some serious but we've just arrived. This is into the palace grounds now. Wow, we are at the base of the palace. Oh man, it is just, it's a fortress. It's magnificent. It's giant. Made it through another ticket checkpoint and now we are actually onto the stairs to begin our ascent. And you can see the Red Palace which is in the center which is the older and then the White Palace which is painted white. Oh man and then we've just so far and I can already By the way, Lhasa is at 3656 meters which is 11990 feet but you these 490 steps slowly and methodically and just slow movements. Doma, who is our guide, was telling us people zigzag on the steps But they do have an but I think mostly for emergency purposes, if you need some oxygen. Yeah, the air is thin. The Red Palace which is it dates back more than 1300 years whereas the white part of the to about 1645 when it was built by the fifth Dalai Lama. It's a dzong fortress but now it is a school to and students of Tibetan (upbeat percussive music) We're getting to the next entrance point but if you look at these this door, these are made from yak wool which is waterproof and weatherproof and they can hold up to It's huge, it's just like a drape that just comes down from the windows. Step inside of here and the walls are just painted in such well preserved, but then up if you look at those are snow lions which (upbeat percussive music) Just entered into this court yard. - The place here is we call Deyangshar and there is the monk's and every year in the their ritual dance here and Dalai Lama he use that window to watch them dance over here and here's the school, the primary school, and there is their two bells, school bell, which is made by. - Wow. (upbeat plucky music) We then take a flight of steps and then a wooden staircase which leads into the Potala Palace. Turn off the camera here, I'll let you know how it is when we come out on the other side but this, this is really (melancholy plucky music) Stepping outside now after And we went to the White Palace, we went to the Red Palace, unbelievable. We went to chapels. We saw the tombs of the Dalai Lamas, the various assembly rooms and just, like, what's unbelievably impressive is the network, the to chapels connecting the construction and from one place to another and you can get so lost back in there. But the meaning, the the ornate details was mind blowing. And just the construction and and the way that they allowed (reverent music) We made it back down Hello. Can you see? Yes, thank you. Oh, awesome. We made it back down from We are, again, just look at the majestic From here, we are going So, it is a big part of Tibetan culture to hang out at tea eat some food, drink tea. Doma is taking us to a local spot. (upbeat bouncy music) Okay, we're stepping inside to, this is a local tea house. We're gonna stop in here for some tea and for something to eat. These are our cups? - [Doma] Yeah, for sweet tea. - Ah, okay. (crowd chattering) Rearranged the seating situation. We got some table space over there but it's really, it's amazing. It's so communal. You just share tables with others, you have tea, you socialize. (crowd chattering) So I'm starting off with a sweet tea and if you look around, most That's the drink of choice here. Oh, that's hot. Oh, it's almost floral tasting but you taste the tea, you And that's scorching hot. That's really good. And it's not too sweet, And the noodles, my bowl of (crowd chattering) After climbing and touring Potala Palace then a bowl of piping hot yak noodles and piping hot yak dumplings. It smells so good and the noodles, let's start with the noodles first. I see a lotta people kinda There's just a little bit of yak. These are, like, thick hearty noodles. In very, kind of a clear broth with just a few onions in it, maybe. (Mike humming) The noodles are very doughy. And very soft. The yak is a little bit And then it tastes like a It kinda has that fruity, I think you can just pick Okay, let's try the, the yak dumplings. And you can already see, they're actually very bready. Almost like a bready steamed wrapper. Oh wow, the yak inside of And it is, rather than a noodle wrapper, it's more of doughy bread wrapper. Like steamed bread like baozi kinda bread. But just a little meat for flavoring. You get a little bit of yak. Yak is not eaten in huge amounts because it's so rich, it's so, it's so warming. And then I think this sauce It's like a slightly, like a dried chili kinda And I just noticed over on my table there's also a little cup of chili oil which I think is for the noodles. I'm gonna add that in my noodles. Add a little bit of this. Oh yes. Maybe a little more on top of the noodles since they kinda went into okay, there we go. With that chili sauce. You can feel the crunch and it's not too spicy but (crowd chattering) And all of a sudden, it's so sharing my table. But I'm gonna try, we also got a plate of, these are vegetarian, I but again these are like, filled with vegetables, filled with maybe vermicelli as well. Just gonna dip it into the sauce a bit. Oh, it's mostly mung, but a type of vermicelli in there with some spice, with some Sichuan pepper. With that chili sauce it's really good. Yeah, to eat a whole plate of that. How are you? People are so cool in Tibet. Very nice, very nice. (speaking in foreign language) I think it's okay to just That's what I see, Uncle Have another. Okay. (speaking in foreign language) Very good. That's so cool, they are so cool. It's definitely the type of broth that when you start sipping it, you can feel that kind of, It's good broth for your lips. It's like ChapStick, (crowd chattering) And now trying, this is the black tea which is also common to drink It's a little bit salty. And very, very light tea. Like, you just barely taste It's almost soupy, yeah. (crowd chattering) (speaking in foreign language) Oh man, what a gorgeous experience. And I think I just said What a beautiful place. What a beautiful people and come outside. Oh man, it is rainy. It's still raining. Looks like it's just gonna be all day today but we're and we are gonna drive which is the center, which is the old city of Lhasa to walk around and eat some more food. (upbeat percussive music) Well, we made it to the This is the old part of Lhasa so there's just networks of old buildings and it's also which is the center of Tibet. It is also one of the most We're gonna stop at another tea house. This is a very, very famous Doma said it's packed but they're known for a few other dishes (crowd chattering) Just stepping into this tea house, you can just hear this hum of voices. People talking, people play cards, to drink tea. (crowd chattering) And yeah, it is challenging, you just gotta try to find a seat and sit down wherever you can. This is a really popular local spot. Okay, they're leaving right here. You gotta sit down immediately or somebody else will grab your table. (glasses clinking) (crowd chattering) - [Doma] French fry, and that's for vegetables for - Tibetan fried potatoes to find the noodles which I think are over on the other side. It's kinda like, yeah, we you'd be kinda confused because there's so many Okay, you order the noodles here I think. - [Doma] You have to bring them the card. - [Mike] Oh, so you paid - And they give you a card and then you exchange it for the noodle. (speaking in foreign language) - Tea house of this popularity, what you do is you get your own cups, you get own glass cups, and you put down money onto the table. So that's how the lady coming knows that you want tea so then she fills your cup and then she takes some of That's how they cater to the Wow, the energy, the action here. People slurping noodles, people drinking tea. This is beautiful. We found another table on the inside so I think we're gonna move because this is a very, very Okay we got a whole table. That age of that table. This is just, like, And starting with some I'm sure potatoes, like, can grow really, really good potatoes. It's really creamy on the inside. Gonna try some of the sweet tea here. I really like it because and it's not that rich, It is milky but it's just hot, It is the type of tea and just sip on. And then Doma has a whole which is very common. I saw many people, like, from their bags, from their purses and start to eat it at tea shops. Oh, it's like fluffy and, like, kinda airy. It kinda has a neutral taste, a little bit salty, almost, like, has, like an eggy texture to it. And also I saw a lotta (crowd chattering) It just, like, because the bread is airy, that just completely absorbs the tea. And since we had the soup we tried the fried noodles here. This is like chow mein fried noodles. There's carrots in here, and there's some type of meat. Grab a little bit of that chili sauce. This does look and smell really good. Oh, it is really good. Garlicky and kinda oily with the crispness of the carrots. And, again, the noodles That's Tibetan food, like, and just, like, it needs to be. You need those carbs. You need that fat with this elevation. That is tasty. Again, what an environment here. (crowd chattering) Well, what I think is so in Tibet is that they're from young kids to the elderly, everyone is welcome here and is that they're places where you can come just to chill and hang out and socialize. You, I mean lots of people have tea, but even if you don't have tea, you can have food but you It's really, like, fully up to you. It's just a social environment. It's just a place where and that's what stands out. It's like coming back out into the world. (peaceful music) Okay, so walking down the who's selling, it's dried dzomo. I think the word is dzomo cheese. It's a combination of both yak and cow. I think a breed, a crossbreed. And she says that this is very made into this cheese. So we got a bag of it. But that's like, it's dried, it's light. It's very, very hard. And put it in your mouth Oh, immediately it's a Really, really like rock hard. As you chew and as you it starts to crumble down. The taste is good. And then we also bought some of her, she has a basket of fruit which is kind of like an apple, kind of like a wild berry. It is a little animal-y tasting. Good though. Okay, and now I'm gonna Oh, that's really good. - [Doma] Yeah, it is really good. - That's like a extra Really crisp, really juicy and sweet. Q, how did you like the cheese? Oh, you're still. - I'm still tryin' to. - Chew on it, mmhm. - It's, like, not too strong of a flavor. - It's not too strong. - It's different. I'm glad I finally tried it. - Cool. Yeah, so this entire is basically a market area. There's everything from modern things to daily necessities. You'll find a lot of yak butter and immediately you can smell that and a variety of different cheeses. But then, just walking through here, yeah, I mean it's a marketplace where you could buy everything. (peaceful music) Walkin' around, there also happens to be a huge concentrations of dentists in this area with all the food. Yeah, if you wanna shop and then stop and get a cavity removed this is the place you come in Lhasa. Got some extra info on of dentists in this area because in Tibet, lots of people like to have a golden tooth. I think it's mostly for So they come here to get a golden tooth and come to think of it, I have seen a lotta people smile and they have a nice golden tooth. That's awesome. (rain pattering) Now that is a beautiful and fat but yak is often and then it can be used So, this is like a for many, many centuries to talk, to negotiate, to do business especially jewelry and different products. This is the fresh, local, where you can vegetables, where you can buy all sorts that you need for Tibetan food. (upbeat music) Some serious chunks of yak butter. There's tea and what's amazing to me is how much, like, cookies There's just, like, shelves Whoa, and that is a good (upbeat music) That's so cool, there's all playing a game on one (upbeat music) So next up we are stopping, it's just a small, little, little closet sized shop. There's a clothes stall on this side, there's a clothes stall on this side but she's whipping up some noodle dishes. You can smell the chili, This noodle dish is called laping and it's made from, it's this blob, a very jelly-ish blob of mung bean. Not even noodle yet but and as she slices it off, you can just see it, But, she slices some off, she puts it into your bowl, she adds on some seasoning and then she adds on and then she adds on some some kinda brothy sauce that looks really good. But, that, like, shaking That's great. (speaking in foreign language) Thank you. Okay, got my freshly and lemme open the chopsticks and you can see, this and the mung bean noodle so they're slices, kinda mixes around with the chili oil. It's soupy, the green onions in there. Well, those are jellyish noodles so they just kinda, like, melt apart. I'll try to, you gotta Oh that's delicious. There might be some vinegar in there too and some ginger. And then the noodles, the mung bean blob, it just sorta melts in your mouth. You've got the contrast that's pickled and then the chili oil. I like that a lot. (crowd chattering) That's amazing. And the toasted chili oil The perfect afternoon snack in Lhasa. (upbeat music) And the sun has come out. I didn't think the sun I thought it was just gonna This is great, we're A little bit of blue skies. And we are movin' on. (upbeat music) Next up on this corner, there's, this is a very cool little corner stall. Some dzomo yogurt which is the, again, the which is supposed to be so we gotta try that. There's no way we cannot try that. Dzomo yogurt, open up that lid. It looks really thick and kinda bubbly. And then it does get, like, Oh wow. You can tastes it's full fat, full flavor. A little bit sour. Very rich and a little That is dzomo. That's yak and cow mix. Oh, it's really, really good though. - [Q] I'll get a little - [Mike] Yeah, that butter stuff. - It's not bad, yeah. - [Mike] It's good, it's rich, right? - It's lightly sweet, - [Mike] Very rich, yeah. - Yeah, it's good. - And then conveniently right next door to where we just had the yogurt, she's selling Tibetan fry bread Let's break it open and see. See the yak, it's fried, it's like that same type of but then yak on the inside. There's also green It's crispy and, like, from being deep fried and then gummy on the inside. A little bit of minced yak in there and then the onions to A little bit oily and flavorful. Very good. (crowds chattering) Okay, so next up on this food tour, ultimate Tibetan food tour, right on the corner here is a Specifically yak momos I believe. Wow, this is a very cool place. So we've had quite a few momos and doughy things already I gotta taste the momos here. It's packed and warm. Oh, and they look amazing though. (speaking in foreign language) It's packed in here, like, there's almost no standing space but such a cool place. They're in this little and they just have this with green onions and spices. Makin' them into, like, and then, very good. Then they make the trays and then I'll give you a In the back there is where they steam them and then over here is where you eat. (crowd chattering) - [Q] And then I'll clear - Okay, yeah, that's fine. Got in the corner here. Legendary yak momos in Lhasa. Oh wow, oh that's delicious They're juicy on the inside because of the fatty yak meat. It's tender, you taste the onions and that wrapper is very gummy and that sauce is like, it is a little bit spicy. It's so juicy. It's so flavorful. And that's why this place is so popular. But the freshness of them. I mean, they make them over there. This is where they're Oh and right over here, they were wavin'. Very good, very good. A sad moment. Those are the best yak All right. Thank you, thank you. Doma, those are the best They were so good. Oh man, if I hadn't eaten a I would've had a whole, like, over heaping bowl of yak momos. (crowd chattering) And then when the sun it's not even hot, but the rays of the sun because you're so high in You gotta use sunblock And that's why you see a kinda cowboy hats or big-rimmed Because the sun, the UV in this elevation in Tibet. Next up on this food tour, we're stopping in this small, little shop because we've been I'm not sure exactly what it's gonna be but it is fungus with And yeah, this dish is very hard to find. I guess it's very seasonal but also not a lotta places serve it so we walked around for a this little small spot. Doma asked a lotta people and this place is known for this dish. Pretty much churu, fungus cheese. It's almost like a porridge. (speaking in foreign language) Okay, so it has arrived now. There's a combination inside of this, yeah, Plus there's chilies, there's, looks like some wood ear fungus. And also barley within this and even a few strands of vermicelli within this porridge. And a couple floating chilies as well. And then also it's to be which is this bread, which and then I also saw some other people add some of that chili. But I will taste it first That's kinda milky tasting, yeah, a little bit cheesy, a But very smooth. Kinda yak-y but good, yeah, that's good. It will be good with chili. Add a little chili to that. Mix that around. Oh, nice. And then also I'm gonna of bread as well. And I think you can kinda of the bread and dip it in. The bread works perfectly because it soaks it up. It absorbs that melted And that's really good And they serve it to you, I think that's so you 'cause it's hot, it's rich. You wanna take little spoonfuls of it. Listen around, you hear people slurping. It's very acceptable (Mike slurping) (spoon tapping) That was tasty. I enjoyed it. But that's rich, that's (upbeat music) Oh, now we have entered in but this is also where which is one of the most sacred It was also built around the 7th century so the same time as part And the ritual here is that many Tibetans, they will do circles and Doma was telling me people will often do three rotations. Sometimes in the morning and and if you just look around, it's, I mean, it's so cool. There are shops around but then we are gonna get where we'll get a view of, there's a square where (crowd chattering) We're walking our way around. And by the way, Tibetan Buddhists, they walk clockwise which is the native they walk counterclockwise. But we're just approaching the (upbeat music) And around Tibet, but especially in Lhasa, especially around the but even like en route to Lhasa, you'll see people prostrating. Which is where they go down on all fours and then all the way out onto the ground and then stand up and it's a practice of reverence, it's a practice of The ultimate, like, humbling experience. But, then others do a prostration from the countryside or from their village all the way into Lhasa and some people even do (upbeat music) For dinner tonight, to wrap we're going to a Tibetan restaurant and you, from the walking you come up, you come up the stairs and I think they have an (speaking in foreign language) Okay, we're stepping here. I love these Tibetan They're so comfortable, they're so chill. Stepping in here for dinner, of the day on this Tibetan food tour. A lot of street food And we're starting with some tea. This is black tea. Oh yeah, that's very salty. Salted black tea. (speaking in foreign language) Okay, she's the owner here. She's so friendly, she's so cool. She invited us in the kitchen to watch her making some of the dishes. We ordered a few Tibetan dishes, one of them she said is her specialty is yak meatballs with tomato which she said she makes herself. So, she's getting ready to cook. Oh, she's choppin' up the vegetables now and just brought in some chilies. (pan sizzling) I believe it's the pickled And they fired up the wok. Whoa, right outta the wok. The pickled radish in there, the beet. Oh, it smells so good. (pan sizzling) And next dish that she with tomatoes, I think or tomato sauce that she added it but it looks really, really good. You can smell the tanginess of it. That looks really good. She is a master on the wok. (pan sizzling) (speaking in foreign language) That's pretty much everything we ordered. There might be one more rice dish, fried rice, coming for Micah. But fresh, right outta the wok. I have to start with those potatoes, curried potatoes, they smell so good and her wok skills, that, like, jet flame wok. The potatoes, she fried them in the oil. She added in the chili and then just, like, flame sizzled them. That was a beautiful thing. The aroma of the curry powder. It smells so good. Okay, the curry powder, I think it was Indian curry powder. It's very Indian tasting actually. Tibet does have influence A lot of influence from India. The potatoes have a crispy edge. The curry powder, the chili oil in there, that is a beautiful touch. That's really good. Okay, and then over here. This one is pickled and the whole sauce is pink because of the pickled radish. And the pinkness of them. Oh wow, this one is incredible. The pickled radish, it has a sour, a sour-ish taste to it. I love that crunch. With the thin strips of yak meat. There's some dried chilies in there. There's some green onions, I believe. That's just like salty, a little bit of Sichuan Okay, I'm gonna grab either some noodles or some rice next. Just because I don't otherwise I'd normally but Micah got the fried rice so I'll just have some fried rice to eat with the yak meatballs next. She really stir fried this one up with tomatoes and I think of, like, ketchup-y looking tangy sauce. But it smells really good and these are, she said she makes these homemade yak meatballs. Get it onto the rice there. It's like a sweet and sour sauce but those are really good meatballs, yeah. Actually tastes quite lean. Firm and lean. And yak is actually very, like, it's very high in protein. It's just, like, very meaty. Sauce is a little bit sweet. I'll go for a few more of and then add some of that chili sauce. That is a chunky chili sauce. Even the whole, like, stem on there. That's awesome. Okay, and I'll go for some I think it's between the potatoes, but actually I think my favorite dish was that stir fried radish with yak meat. That one's the highlight of the meal. It's a really chunky chili sauce. There's even leaves in there, maybe bay leaves or. I'm not sure. Mmhm, I love that balance (upbeat music) That was a very filling dinner but I think most Tibetan very hearty, carbs and yak meat and it's slightly oily but Big thank you to Bruce from Travel China Tibet for inviting me to Tibet. And they're, yeah, they're so cool, they're so accommodating and I'll have their link in the description box below and they offer tours in Tibet at well so thanks again for watching. Goodbye from Lhasa. An incredible city and I will