Eighty years ago, in 1939, one of was produced, The Wizard of Oz. To mark the yellow brick road to remember and talented artists who made that film the Join us as we hitch a ride on a tornado There would be no Wizard of Oz film if Lawn in Glendale California we find the started it all: Wonderful Wizard of Oz in 1900, with the best-selling children's book in the thirteen more novels about the Land of worked to get the Wizard of Oz produced He produced several silent short films not live long enough to see the most we're featuring today: The hero of Baum's book is a young &quot;She isn't coming yet, Toto.&quot; And the hero of the 1939 film, the young actress Hollywood's brightest stars, Judy Garland, Cemetery. Garland, born Francis Ethel Gumm, learned to walk. At the age of 13 she was cast Dorothy and The Wizard of Oz, considered, but the role went to Judy and anyone else in that role. &quot;We must be over the rainbow!&quot; She was 16 at year would earn an Academy Juvenile of Oz and Babes in Arms. She would decades, her passion for entertaining overdose took her life at the age of 47. entombed at the Ferncliff mausoleum in later, her remains were removed here to Her career was storied and diverse, but to a young Kansas girl singing over the [music] &quot;Toto, I have a feeling we're Dorothy's constant and most faithful Kansas and the land of Oz, is a little actor Terry, a female Cairn Terrier. And judy lies to find this monument to Toto, reportedly paid $125 a week, more than She can be seen on screen and close to two After her death in 1945 she was buried would be paved over by the 101 freeway. undertaken to have a monument to Toto Two of the first characters we meet in the film are Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, Kansas &quot;Oh but Aunt Em she hit...&quot; &quot;Don't bother us now, honey. This old incubator's gone bad, Auntie Em was played by Clara Blandick. just up the hill from where L Frank Glendale. Her niche is here in the character actress known for playing role of Auntie Em, Dorothy's &quot;Dorothy! Where are you? It's me, Auntie Em. Where are you?&quot; &quot;I'm here in Oz, Auntie Em!&quot; Clara continued to act into the 1950s She suffered severely by her 80s, and in &quot;Make the great adventure...&quot; She took an overdose of Within the walls of this same Columbarium of Inspiration, is the man He was a circus acrobat and stage silent film. He had retired in the 20s, prompting a second career on screen. &quot;Dorothy? Well what has Dorothy done?&quot; &quot;What's she done? I'm all but lame &quot;You mean she bit ya?&quot; 'No. Her dog.&quot; &quot;Oh. She bit her dog, eh?&quot; In the 1939 Wizard of Oz the only actor who appeared in Kansas appeared in the witch's crystal ball. grandpa in The Grapes of Wrath. He lived When Dorothy is swept up by a cyclone to the Land of Oz the first meets is a good witch. &quot;I'm Glinda, the witch of the north.&quot; &quot;You are? I beg your pardon witch before.&quot; &quot;Only bad witches are ugly.&quot; She was played by Billie Burke, who rests here at Kensico in New York. Before famous on Broadway and in early radio protects young Dorothy on her journey to the ruby slippers. Billie was nominated for an Oscar for her at the age of 85 and is buried here next Flo Ziegfeld. Among the most lovable and the Land of Oz are the munchkins. &quot;What are munchkins?&quot; &quot;The little people who live in this land, Over a hundred little people and children were cast to play the villagers including the Earles siblings, known as collectively credited in the opening create over a hundred unique costumes cataloging to make sure each looked the Cemetery in St. Louis Missouri we find surviving munchkin actors, Mickey Carroll, He played Munchkinland's town crier, as well as a marching soldier and a fiddler. filming The Wizard of Oz, returning to In fact when the grave of L Frank Baum's heroine, began to fall into disrepair, After Dorothy dropped in on the the residents of Oz had to be sure she reliably dead. So they called in the &quot;She's really most sincerely dead.&quot; The man who played Munchkinland's corner film role, but one he would be remembered reciting his lines from the movie. Later and a spokesman for Oscar Mayer, known as He lived to be 94, and we find his final Lutheran Church Cemetery in Farmington As the munchkins celebrate the death of the Wicked Witch various guilds including the lullaby League and the hands a giant lollipop to Dorothy as a &quot;We wish to welcome you The actor who played that lollipop kid was Jerry Maren, of Remembrance at Forest Lawn Hollywood. and the longest living Wizard of Oz After the Wizard of Oz he continued to act like The Beverly Hillbillies, Bewitched, appearances at Wizard of Oz conventions long-living Munchkins. As they celebrate their reverie is the film's antagonist, The Wicked Witch With her green skin, false nose, and has become one of cinema's most iconic &quot;I'll get you my pretty, She also played the loathsome Miss Gulch in the Kansas scenes. The role was While filming the scene where she severely burned with a pyrotechnic recuperate in hospital for six weeks Hamilton is the only star of the to visit, as she doesn't have one. After her death at age 82 she was cremated, With the Wicked Witch of send Dorothy on her way down the yellow Along the way she makes a few new friends. The with straw and short on brains who's, not &quot;I haven't got a brain. Only straw.&quot; &quot;How can you talk &quot;I don't know. But some people without brains to an The role was played by vaudevillian Ray Man and buddy Ebsen as the Scarecrow, but Scarecrow, his rubbery dance style roles were switched. Kansas scenes. Ray would be identified as He also had a memorable role in Disney's 83 he was entombed here in the mausoleum California. As the two new friends continue down the looks like a metal statue. It was the pining for a heart. A few dabs of oil and &quot;Beautiful! What an echo!&quot; &quot;It's empty. The tinsmith forgot to give me a At Holy Cross Cemetery not far from the mausoleum where Ray Bolger rests, Jack Haley. The role originally went to Buddy allergic reaction after inhaling the makeup. Jack Haley was then cast, the a powder. His Kansas counterpart was a to be 81, dying, somewhat ironically, And so the duet became a trio, and three new yellow brick road, which passed through a feared was full of lions and tigers and They weren't wrong. Moments later they came across a lion, one who just so &quot;Why you're nothing but a great big coward.&quot; &quot;You're right, I am a coward. I haven't any courage at all. I even scare myself.&quot; In New York's Union Field Cemetery we find the the forest, Bert Lahr. The beloved his quick wit, ad-libbing some of the His costume was fashioned from an actual for over three million dollars. Like the be associated with the Cowardly Lion. His Lahr died in 1967, and when Judy Garland heard performance of Over the Rainbow that The Fellowship of Oz was now fully formed, each with their own unique request. But facing new foes along the way, including &quot;Now fly!&quot; At Valhalla Cemetery in North Hollywood flying monkey, in a number of other roles through the He died in 1948 at the age of 62. Before he Oz demanded the troupe retrieve the journey would take them right into the the Winkie Guard, who were surprisingly &quot;She's... she's dead. &quot;I didn't mean to kill her.&quot; &quot;Hail to Dorothy, the Wicked Witch is dead!&quot; The captain of the Winkie Guard, who voiced who rests here at Forest Lawn Glendale. in his career, including a role in the at the age of 76. Having retrieved the to return to the Wizard of Oz to have not forthcoming. Dorothy and her friends business when the intrepid Toto pulled &quot;Pay no attention to that man &quot;Who are you?&quot; &quot;I'm the great and powerful The man behind the man behind the curtain was here at Green-Wood Cemetery in New York. you keep your eyes peeled you'll see him Marvel, the gatekeeper, the carriage, other actor in the film. Morgan died of a several years before the first televised neither he nor Charley Grapewin living popularity of the film in Dorothy's time in Oz has finally come to facilitated by the wizard, but in fact, by And so as Technicolor gives way to sepia &quot;There's no place like home.&quot; But wait! Before we roll credits It takes more than great actors to make aspects of 1939's Wizard of Oz came from Take, for example, the music... tunes that 80 heart. At Ferncliff Cemetery in New York, to rest, we find the songwriter who tunes that keep us humming long after wrote the songs for The Wizard of Oz, [music] the songs the Scarecrow, Tin Man, [music] and of course, &quot;Over the Rainbow,&quot; which not considered the number one greatest film [music] Ironically the song was originally cut only to be later put back in. Arlen with a lyricist named Yip Harburg. we are unable to visit him. The incidental music you hear between the songs is called score. The man who wrote of the preeminent film composers in the rest here at Forest Lawn Glendale. He won Oz, and is also known for films like Another musician who worked on Lawn in the Hollywood Hills, at the did some of the vocal and orchestral but he was the voice of the mayor of &quot;As mayor in the Munchkin city, The Munchkin voices were all overdubbed by voice performers like Darby, and even Pinto Colvig, Toto was one of the big stars of behind the animal actor, a man named Carl find the niche of Carl Spitz, the owner In 1927 he opened a dog training center in silent hand signals to direct the animal in early Hollywood, working with a number screen in that era. But none were ever so &quot;Oh Toto darling! For audiences in the 1930s The spectacle, with special effects that hold particular was quite impressive, made muslin cloth spinning around a miniature The man who realized all of the special head of MGM's special effects department, in the Columbarium of Heavenly Peace at for an Oscar for his work on The Wizard Oscars, for Ben Hur, Green Dolphin Street, If there is one costume piece in Hollywood iconic, one might safely say the ruby Adrian, buried here at Hollywood Forever stars in the 20s and 30s, working with Adrian designed the elaborate and including, and perhaps most notably, the display at the Smithsonian. And you'll be slippers are silver, but the filmmakers relatively new Technicolor and showcase ruby red. Another aspect of the film that production design - the sets. The entire the farm scenes, so everything had to be That's where art director Cedric Gibbons films with larger-than-life splendor, and he and his team turning an empty believable worlds. Gibbons was nominated over his career would take home 11 of incidentally, he designed. After his death Cemetery in Los Angeles. Actors, costumes, and decorated sets are no good to us unless they are captured Forever we find the man behind the Harold Rosson, the cinematographer for The Oscar for the film. He's also known for Singing in the Rain. He lived to be 93. Many filmmakers would tell you that a room, everything else is just gathering Park Cemetery now, in the Mausoleum of we find the niche of the woman who cut know and love: Blanche Sewell. actress but became a negative cutter and editors in Hollywood. She was only 50 enough to see the film's renewed If we head back to Forest Lawn Glendale we find the man who oversaw the entire production of the film, the for the decision to make The Wizard of become one of the most culturally iconic, the most seen film in movie history. right here on his marker. Finally we find the film, the director, Victor Fleming, Hollywood Forever. The film actually went early troubled production, but Fleming It was quite a year for Fleming who Hollywood's greatest films back to back. the Wind, King Vidor filled in to finish Victor Fleming died suddenly of a heart And that concludes our tour. Now let's tap our ourselves, &quot;There's no place like home,&quot; and you