&quot;Ciao.&quot; Hey. Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of This time, we're enjoying and people-friendly streets -- Thanks for joining us. In this episode, the treasures of and we'll see the city in from ancient to modern. Then we'll side-trip to and cultural capitals Pisa and Lucca. In Florence, we'll be wowed eat and drink well I'm working. And get to know through the art of Then we hop a train, side-tripping to marvel circle a city on its ramparts, survey the realm from atop and enjoy some Puccini Italy, about the size is made of many We're in Tuscany, before side-tripping Florence was the epicenter of the Renaissance, that propelled Europe and into an economic, and artistic boom time. This is the city an abundance of genius, and a passion for merging ushered in an age of humanism. In the space of Florence gave us Leonardo's &quot;Mona Lisa,&quot; This remarkable town, with just 60,000 people would help lead Europe You can't have an art boom and the Medici family, who ruled Florence from palaces like this, It was the Medici wealth -- along with their passion for art that helped Florence host making this city the art capital The statues in their garden it was in Florence that art simply to be enjoyed With the Renaissance, to teach Bible stories Now, rich people sponsored art The art-loving Medicis hosted lots of famous artists, Imagine -- lived with them almost Leonardo da Vinci played and Botticelli actually studied that dotted their gardens. Today, the plush world is on display This lavishly frescoed takes you back to Florence -- of its aristocratic class -- The walls around &quot;The Journey of the Magi,&quot; on their way to Bethlehem, Showing no shortage of ego, as one of the Three Kings. This is an idealized image of leading a parade of Florentines Rather than the Holy Land, the scene is set Behind the king are other along with the city's rich These elegant are actually showing the leading characters They're wearing colorful clothes that set trends The chapel doubled received important guests, in this religious setting, an impressive display of power When potential rivals they could only think, Powerful as they were, like everyone else and eventually ended up in a grander Medici chapel which served as Designed by Michelangelo his creative powers, created completely under is an innovative tombs, and sculpture. Michelangelo, three of the four was emotionally attached This is the work of reflecting on his contemporaries and, it seems to me, between humanism, salvation, The room is strikingly empty Lorenzo II is shown as arm resting on and bowing his head His sarcophagus bears metaphors for &quot;Dusk,&quot; worn out after a long day, and reflects on &quot;Dawn&quot; stirs restlessly as though waking Opposite, on the tomb of Michelangelo portrays The woman representing Night reflecting Michelangelo's the musculature The man, representing Day, each limb twisting in These statues represent which eventually even the most powerful. Day, night, dawn, brought to life in this room of the Renaissance, On the city's main square Florence's City Hall. While the exterior is medieval, this one's a replica -- the Renaissance world The elaborate courtyard, with its Roman-inspired is textbook Renaissance. The enormous main hall is 500 guests at the same time. In an age before it was this was how you shaped The art trumpeted the glory of The frescos recall great Florence beating Pisa, 1497... Florence trouncing Siena The ceiling heralds of the Grand Duke Dressed as an emperor he was the first Medici In front, the first of giving the family in both Rome and heaven the Medici family became The hall is flanked the heroic labors a mortal who became a parallel not lost Again, you've got to be Back out on the streets, even a tourist the princes and dukes My son Andy's taking time out to join us for at Trattoria Tito. My favorite restaurants They're run by people And Bobo, with runs this place Tonight, we're going with the antipasto extravaganza, with wine to match. Knowing what I'll be eating, compliments the food. Dry enough to clean with the fats of salamis. Steves: Bobo, tests the wine to make sure. I think it's perfect. Bobo: Okay. This is the pecorino cheese. We aged it in caves and it's perfect to eat or with fava beans. You have to get You have to push out the bean. Look at that. Eat it with a piece of It's perfect. Steves: Bobo takes a break from his busy schedule will still compliment What dedication. Bobo: It's not a typical Florentine starter or &quot;crostini,&quot; We have crostini with and then the lard, Spiced with black pepper the bruschetta with olive oil, and garlic. We have the typical I think it's time Steves: I was just Bobo:...A syrah, perfect with and with the wild meats. Enjoy. I'm working. [ Laughs ] Steves: Bobo certainly Bobo: Here you go. Okay, this is wild salamis. This is deer salami. This one is This one is wild boar cheeks, deer ham, Enjoy them with the wine. Steves: Oh, boy, Bobo: Okay. Okay. This is the &quot;vin santo,&quot; and these are our homemade Florentine biscuits So you dip them in the sweet One, &quot;due, &quot;Cinque,&quot; Steves: The perfect end thanks to Bobo. Civic pride of good living enlivens Any time of year, a festival is likely to take you as did this one here on Another grand meeting place, is Piazza della Repubblica. This lonely ancient column this piazza was the Roman Forum. The grand square also evokes Marked by a triumphal arch, it was built as celebrating That explains its name -- Florence reigned as the capital for just five years, That's when Rome was still Florence lacked this grand new country, once a ramshackle was torn down for this imposing, Today, the piazza, stately buildings is a fine place or just feel the energy While most of Florence's in the old center, takes us to a much-loved Set on a hill it makes it clear than Renaissance treasures. For a thousand years, still part of a functioning has blessed the city that The church predates by several centuries. Its marble facade, is a classic example The perfect symmetry of the perfection and the eagle on top, reminds all who approach the wool guild. Stepping inside, you enter the most medieval Florentines The &quot;carpet of marble&quot; The wood ceiling is repainted, showing off its This 14th-century golden mosaic his paltry secular crown Visitors are welcome to chanted as it has been by Benedictine brothers [ Chanting ] In the adjacent sacristy, from the life of their founder Benedict is shown as busy blessing, preaching, and chasing the devil, until that day when he Benedict was the founder of a vast network of over that eventually gave in the cultural darkness that That's why Benedict is While San Miniato comes with the nearby marked by its towering is the city's Crowds line the terrace, enjoying the cityscape From here, dividing the town center landmarks like the Ponte Vecchio beloved dome, It's a fine place to reflect While Florence is there are a handful of about an hour Pisa, with its makes a wonderful day trip. Pisa is a grand city For nearly three centuries, Pisa was a booming port town, rivaling Venice and Genoa From here, where the Arno River its 150-foot galleys cruised Pisa's three the Cathedral, Baptistery, are reminders of its long-ago This dazzling ensemble on the best lawn This square, was nicknamed or Field of Miracles, for the grandness The architectural style is Pisa's very own Where traditional Romanesque Pisan Romanesque The buildings, of thin columns, and striped colored marble, give the square The 200-foot-tall bell tower it leans about 15 feet. The tower started to lean almost immediately Various architects tried to by kinking Climbing to the top is offering great views and its dramatic duomo, Pisa's huge and richly is artistically more important Its ornate facade The 320-foot-long nave in the 12th century, The floor plan is that of 68 Corinthian columns dividing The striped marble give it an exotic, almost mosque-like feel. The pulpit, dates from around 1300. Pisano left no stone uncarved While this was sculpted over a century before Michelangelo himself traveled drawing inspiration In the Middle Ages, enter the church That's why baptisteries free-standing buildings The interior is A statue of John, the man who baptized Christ, &quot;Welcome to my baptistery.&quot; The finely crafted font baptizing adults by immersion, A highlight here for many resulting in echoes long enough to let you sing [ Sings three notes ] [ Notes echo ] [ Sings note ] [ Note echoes ] Nearby is another fine Traveling through we reach the delightful Beautifully preserved Lucca within its iconic ramparts. Most cities to make way but Lucca kept its walls, both traffic, and, it seems, The city is a bit While it has Europe's it hasn't seen a battle Locals, and fellow tour guide treat their ramparts And, with plenty of visitors can enjoy two-and-a-half mile circuit So, Gabriele, this is What's the difference between and a medieval wall? The medieval wall they had no problem but in the Renaissance time, and they became a problem, so that's why Lucca's wall but all that hard work combined with clever diplomacy, earned the city a long and, to this day, have a strong sense Rather than showcasing Lucca's appeal is in its Stroll around. Take time to Romanesque churches seem to be as do inviting piazzas The main pedestrian drag Strolling here past elegant you'll get a glimpse of as well as its Piazza Amphitheater an ancient Roman arena. While the arena's long gone, is a reminder of Locals have been gathering here Today's attraction -- Piazza San Michele also It's hosted a market when it was the forum. Today it's dominated by Towering above its the archangel Michael stands which, thanks to a crude he actually did In its heyday, a hundred towers Each tower was the home of a wealthy merchant family. Towers were single rooms shop, living room, This one, Lucca's tallest is famous for being capped with Those making the climb commanding city views, all in the shade of Nearby, the Church hosts nightly concerts of hometown composer [ Singing ] He was one of Italy's Puccini's delightful arias of this wonderful I hope you've enjoyed our of Florence, Pisa, and Lucca. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Ciao.&quot; And this one, the name I know him. Yes, uh, uh, uh, uh, I love those [ Laughs ] Listen to me, Like Pisa. [ Laughs ] Like Pisa. [ Laughs ] Like Pisa. [ Laughs ] Damn, those Medici are good. [ Laughs ]