Nicaragua used to be a secret. For decades only the most fearless of because of the But nowadays more people are There's charming over 2,000 local foods to try and the cloud forest here is home to 7% of all In this video we're going to be Starting with the historic one of the first colonial cities after they arrived here Welcome to Granada. It's said to be the all of Central America. So right now we're which is the central It's this beautiful in the middle of the city. I'm a little bit hungry This looks good. Right as we walked in here the first thing he asked is &quot;would you like to And I was like And he just started I wasn't even sure - Cheers. I really like this a lot. I like Granada a lot already. A beautiful, And the people We did not order anything. He just guessed that we wanted to try It's good. I'm just Tiste is a drink cacao powder and there's some I don't know how Is it sweet? Yes. I'm not a huge fan of it. The cobblestone are honestly picture perfect. With beautifully and well maintained mansions. I love this little street. This is the main All these beautiful A bunch of restaurants Central America having this incredible nature. But not so much for the cities. They can be kind of gritty in general in the region. But Granada has this of just incredibly beautiful And I just love that. The electrical wiring here is a little bit of I mean look at this. Look how chaotic. Yeah, I'm not going to to get my I'll just do it myself. I can botch this This is something I before we came on this trip. Cheers. Baggy to baggy. A baggy of orange juice. Even the money Look at this. And these two orange which is about... About two dollars. For just one dollar and get this incredible That right there is which is home to an And we're going to go there Tomorrow. You can hear the bell's So that's one of the things For some weird reason all day long at random intervals there's this loud banging. Almost like firecrackers I'm not sure But once the sun goes down all of the squares... Basically turn into this because it's December. Wow, look at this guys. I mean, for in an this is more Christmas This sounds like my kind of church. Back at home in Europe churches are so So quiet. It was like a party. And they were also filming this. I'm not sure what was happening. All we just needed A little dance. I think this park looks like A bunch of families, kiddos Good morning, guys. Good morning. Today we're going on a It was very hot in We slept like So today we're going to which is up on the I showed you from It's up in the cloud forest. If you're lucky or some other type of wildlife. But before we do that... I always love coming that are really like, local, Because you can see what kind of shops they have what people like to buy. It's just a crazy glimpse I'm just really surprised how many different types of Granted, it is one But there are like, 7 or 8 types of rice and 7 or 8 types And the entire market is covered with these big plastic tarps to kinda shelter Because I don't know but it's kind of hot here. Now we're ready We got back to the van. We packed up all of our stuff because we are going at the Mombacho Lodge on the edge of one here in Nicaragua. That right there is the volcano. You can't see the top because it's shrouded And of course, since it should be a lot cooler there. I'm really looking There's a pretty There's a bunch of As beautiful as Granada is the real reason people is not its cities. It is the nature. First up on our list the Cloud Forest of Nicaragua which is home to 7% of So because the is 4x4 only and well, we're we're going to and they're Can we toss it like this? Adventure begins. Do I need to pay Oh, okay. If they don't ask anything don't pay anything. Okay. The cabin itself is because you're in the forest and this door does It just has this mosquito so you can feel the Here we have the bed. Let's see if I fit. Yeah, this bed is about but it'll do for the night. It's got some of the I've ever seen though. And last but the smallest room in the cabin which doesn't look super clean. Kind of something but clean enough. And then they also which we're going to need later. We'll show you why. The Mombacho Lodge on top of the And you can do a hike here that takes you to the crater rim which is what we're Today, we're going to because there is quite that you can spot here. The Cloud Forest on is home to over And in the first we already saw a toucan Guys, we only just got here and already I saw a hummingbird sitting right outside They had this and it was just hanging around for like 15 or 20 minutes. That was super, super cool. The owner told us you can spot some sloths in here in this part of the forest here. He said that they're but I mean, my eyes There's a really big spider It really does not look to have crawling I hope it's just... Ah it's giving me all Just walking around we saw about a dozen As delicate and that is not the reason So sloths are these super cute slow moving little fur balls. There's only a few where you can see him. Costa Rica is one of them and Nicaragua, right is another country. According to Google the best way to is by looking for big Sloths spend up to and just hanging So they're incredibly And today was not We were going to but for now, we were going They also have one at the lodge. This is very unstable. It's very windy up here so this feels a Wow. You can see Granada you can see Granada and We're up so high I can't even see That's crazy. There's a storm I think it's time before we get down There is something in our room. Like I was just in our room. I was trying to for our camera battery but there's And I have to get Naick because whatever it is I'm not taking care of it. Where is it? Other side of the bed Be very careful once you get close. It's difficult to reach the spot as well. It was gone before I hit it. It was gone? Oh no no, Wait, maybe I can chase it out. With the deodorant? Seriously? This is always the thing and the jungle. There's all sorts I missed it. Naick. don't miss. I hit it, Size 46. Unbeatable. It turns out what we found was called the whip It's somewhere in between They're not venomous, but... still I would prefer if Now that Naick has we can have dinner. We're gonna have some steak into the cloud forest with Which I'm suddenly As we set off on we had no idea that this would turn but also the most we'd ever done. I think we have a In a few minutes time he's this rodent-like If there's a sloth out here he's gonna find it. This is unbelievable. Like I've never seen anything. We've done a lot of This guide is really good and we're really close to it. He says it's not It's not poisonous. but it's not gonna get to us. Yes, very big. What did we just spotted, Kim? A tarantula sitting on a branch. Honestly, I was expecting to kind of find and maybe a few smaller spiders. But the stuff we've is all dangerous. This is where we're sleeping. It's like 2 minutes There are right here on the path. We have to kind of because apparently Oh my god, I can see the I don't like this. This is the most exciting but also horrifying walk ever. We just got back to the room. There is another one of those things And fortunately this little critter Alright, it's bedtime. If all goes well we'll see you So we decided to just go to bed and let it hang out over our heads all night long. Good morning. Welcome back to the I actually didn't I think it's because one of those spider that was still on our ceiling. I think that was in To keep those They may be slow but once they get their greasy You know what I did The fact that during the night it was a little bit cold so we got underneath I love that because in the van it's usually the heat I am ready to We're going to go all You know what We don't have to walk up. This is very What was that? I don't think it's I was standing and that just We escaped the hog We're at the The truck brought Right here next to the rim. So if you remember we went for the and we could see the with the clouds That is exactly where This is not mist. This is the clouds We have found a sign up here of what you're actually Normally you can see the bay of Lake Wow the views are It's a nice day. There's a nice light breeze and a little bit of clouds. We really picked the right day. Because this forest looked we decided to do the hike We later learned that the weather on top is like this about If there are they're gonna be This forest though we'd ever I can't believe how It's really something special with all the mosses and like the It's such a vibe. And then the rain This is something else. It feels like we're quest to save the world. Or throwing a ring in Two hobbits. Kim looks a little bit Another incredible view of the crater of the Isn't it amazing? We did this hike together with one of the other And he offered of the two of us together. The main reason we was to see wildlife. So we made down the volcano And visited a close to the lodge. Where we got the red-eyed tree frog that this part of the But also a bunch of Guys, we just got And that big tree over is full of howler monkeys. There is a sloth in the tree. Where is it? There! That's a sloth? It's a sloth in the tree. It's actually their home sloth. It's not... But it was born in And because it doesn't mind And it returns quite a lot to The lodge even has some pictures on their Instagram page of when this sloth was How cute is that? Right now we can't see his face. We can see him, But can't see his face. So we're going to and wait to see We've been watching the sloth very closely for two hours now. And I can now report that it hasn't moved at all. It didn't even lift a finger. So I think we're now finding out We've spent a lot of time in like jungle lodges in various parts of Asia in the Amazon, I don't think we've ever in just about 24 So the wildlife in Nicaragua I know people say it's but it's really good I'm just sitting and there's and a bunch of monkeys It doesn't get much Well, it could if it