Errico Malatesta Anarchy We all have gaps in our knowledge of the world, Very often, these gaps are filled with preconceived Also, information, and especially opinion, In this video, I want to disclaim one of my world which, I believe, reflects in all my I am an anarchist. This video isn't only made as a disclaimer preconceived ideas of what it is. If you're generous enough to give me some ideas of anarchism, at the very least, you'll As an introduction to Anarchism, we'll be pamphlet: Anarchy. It's a very short text, but we'll still That way, if you decide to read along, you out of it. The link to the online version of the text If you prefer a physical copy, I'm giving This video obviously doesn't replace Malatesta's a chapter and then watch the section of the But if you don't like reading, well, hopefully time and, through this video, we might get If after reading Chapter One you decide that you'll still learn a whole lot about anarchist this video. So, when you're trying to define a word, That's how Malatesta opens the first chapter of the word Anarchy mean "without government". But this is not how we usually understand The common usage of this word is highly pejorative But why? Malatesta thinks that it comes from a prejudiced society to function. That a lack of government is some kind of lead to a dysfunctional and chaotic society. This unjustified belief comes from habit. Humans adapt to their condition and pass on nor these habits. For example, descendants of a long line of condition of life because it's always been This was also noted by Etienne de la Boetie in 1576 : "We should exonerate and forgive them, since and, being quite unaware of it, cannot perceive Similarly, workers depend on work to feed of business-owners that they don't die of They believe that these masters feed them if there were no masters to feed us?" Another example Malatesta gives is the image but still managed to walk. That person could think that the very reason in reality, are limiting them. Now, imagine a whole system of ideas constructed bonds to their legs. Doctors would come up with explanations and this person could not walk. That person would protect these bonds with to free them an enemy. These constructed ideas, the ones that try very present in our society and Malatesta, these ideas. He says that, like the worker or the slave, not live properly. He also says that, like for the bound person, government is necessary is hammered into our etc... This is why the word anarchy has been synonymous We believe ourselves to be dependant on authority But Anarchy isn't the first word to be misused Just a couple of centuries ago, when people - a monarchy - the word republic was used So if we can convince people that not only could do much better without one, the word understand it: "natural order, unity of freedom within complete solidarity". Now, before going any further into the book, the State. It's "the sum total of the political, institutions through which the management personal behaviour, the responsibility for the people and entrusted to others who, by the powers to make the laws for everything The idea of delegation here is pretty important which Malatesta goes back to in the following He follows this by saying that, because we of Society, he will use the term government He also defines what he means by the abolition all political order based on authority, and members based on a harmony of interests and carrying out social responsibilities." So when anarchists say they want to abolish to abolish social cohesion, collectivities They believe that these things will actually 2 But, what is the government? Commonly, we believe the government to be independent of whoever is holding office. It's the abstract representation of the with great qualities such as justice and equity. And this view is greatly encouraged by the authority should always be defended, even do the opposite of promoting justice and equity. Commonly, we believe that the government is Now, let's see what anarchists think. Anarchists don't really see the government of the people. They see it as governors. Kings, presidents, ministers, what have you. A government is someone or a collection of of society through laws. Such laws, Malatesta says, are there to regulate are carried out; to levy taxes and to collect judge and punish those who contravene the scrutiny and sanctions; to monopolize some or, if they so wish, all production and all exchange of goods; to wage war or make peace grant or withdraw privileges... and so on". So, the governors are the ones who can make collective physical, intellectual and economic This concentration of power in the hands of of government, of authority." But now that we answered what the government desirable. Malatesta asks the question as follows: "Why give them this power to take over willy wish? Are they so exceptionally gifted as to be their ability to replace the mass of the people of everybody better than the interested parties Are they infallible and incorruptible to the of prudence, entrust the fate of each and So here are some amazing questions. They imply that nobody is so exceptionally act in their interest and not be corrupted Malatesta says that the responsibility of by a few people. Anarchists believe that no human can bare corrupted and, in consequence, we shouldn't We can't trust someone, not even an anarchist, But it's not only about "absolute power abilities. What makes someone so much more suitable to I won't quote many millionaires here, but "I have been at probably every powerful at nonprofits, I have been at foundations, boards, I have been at G-summits, I have sat Alright, well what if there WAS an infinitely Would the concentration of power into their If a government could be justified, it's individuals. Malatesta says that the government, in that These people, now at the government, wouldn't Perhaps, it would slow down the development with so many different subjects without fully agriculture to education all the way to health Plus, a government, even if managed by very energy in preserving itself and fighting off And still, no matter if they're infinitely put them in power. Should they impose themselves by rights of Well certainly not, how would we be sure that Should they be selected from a particular Again, absolutely not, as the interests of be defended over the general interest. But what about voting them in? Well here's an interesting question on suffrage. Malatesta says that numbers are not an indicator Being elected doesn't mean you're the honest; it just means that you're good at a public. Malatesta also expresses concern for minorities So, to anarchists, a government is undesirable good and incorruptible (which is impossible), as effectively as communities could, for they they can't make decisions on everything. And, added to that, it would be hard to find power without alienating a large part of the one entity necessarily leaves a lot of people 3. Alright so we asked if the government was Now, let's see how it's justified. Part I: The justification for the existence Malatesta argues that every justification down to the prejudiced view that society is interests. This would mean that a higher power, an authority, the different interests of all. The government would then find the best way least possible sacrifice. I would call this method of justification: In other words, without the government, who of others? It's the whole idea of "the freedom of and authoritarians will say "if nobody establishes people from ignoring them?". From there comes the idea that, in anarchy, or, in one word, Chaos. But that couldn't be further from the truth. Historically, governments have pretty much They weren't there to enforce order and they usually destroy freedoms. They were not mediators. Most of the time, and anarchists would argue comprised of a minority (kings, emperors, power I mean armed groups such as armies or themselves off of the people's work. Malatesta establishes two ways of oppressing: 1. Directly with physical violence - that is whoever owns armies. 2. You can oppress indirectly by taking the means In other words, private property or economic I think we should take a moment to talk about not as obvious as physical violence. Anarchists strongly oppose private property proper explanation, it's hard to understand Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, the first man to declare on the question of property in What is Property, In a nutshell, private property, or broadly is a tool of domination because, in a world be his/her own takes away the ability for In other words, imagine a world where humans If one class owned, in some way, all the means of that class would be subjected to it, they'd Or, imagine you live on an island with 3 other that the island is yours. Then these other people wouldn't be able No matter how hard they'd want to work, to work on. What you then could do is use that land as land. In return, you'll give them food and you'll You'd be exploiting them. This idea that private property is one of The very well-known 18th century political it in Discourse on the Origin and Basis of "The first man who, having enclosed a piece is mine, and found people simple enough to society. From how many crimes, wars and murders, from any one have saved mankind, by pulling up to his fellows, &quot;Beware of listening to this that the fruits of the earth belong to us Today, most people are born without any property. They come to this world and, when they become but to bring profit to their bosses. In other words, to be able to sustain yourself, to work for someone and that relationship In a fair society, you wouldn't have to because you don't own land. In a fair society, land (or any other means and could be worked by everybody without oppression. Here's one last example from Karl Marx's England to Swan River, West Australia, means machinery) to the amount of PS50,000. Mr. Peel had the foresight to bring with him, men, women, and children. Once arrived at his destination, "Mr. Peel or fetch him water from the river."" Why? Because Mr. Peel's workers could work on They didn't have to work for Mr. Peel anymore, They had access to land. When all the land is appropriated by capitalists, making Mr. Peel's bed and fetch him water This is why private property is oppressive. Anyway, we were saying that there are two Keeping that in mind, we can now move on to You first had, a long time ago, some small and economic, were in one single pair of hands. Through intimidation, that person got their They were the landowner, the ruler, the judge But, as society expands and grows more complex, Slowly, they start accumulating the means their power as the people who control the By doing so, they can manipulate political Malatesta demonstrates how this has happened Conquerors will own the government and property, eventually give the property back to the owners. This results in the government (or force) the owners (the source of force). But this relationship, Malatesta adds, has With wealth increasing so much, the power The discovery of the Americas and the Industrial so much that the capitalists themselves obtained This was the birth of modern democracies: capitalist interests. Malatesta critiques our modern democracies, "In many countries workers nominally have of the government. It is a concession made by the bourgeoisie, its struggle against the monarchical and aristocratic thinking of emancipation by giving them the But whether the bourgeoisie foresaw it or the fact is that that right proved to be entirely power of the bourgeoisie while giving the hopes of achieving power. Even with universal suffrage -- and we could -- the government remained the bourgeoisie's So Malatesta doesn't think that the government but more of an instrument to impose certain While it says it protects the general interest, the interests of a small, but powerful, minority. And this is not only applicable now; it has The government is oppressive and is using the police force, education) to maintain this Malatesta does recognize the fact that the had some beneficial actions, but also says We'll get back to that in chapter 6. But, of course, a government would try to class and here is how, according to Malatesta, "[The government] cannot impose respect not appear to demand respect for all human of the few if it does not pretend to be the They also need to be the guardian of the rights If governments adopted a reform like, for of a working day to 8h, it would be to stop In other words, to Malatesta, if the government just preventing a worker's revolution that privilege. If it wasn't for that, the capitalists, workers got mad. So we've seen how the government is, and wealthy class. But is there anything else that would qualify To Malatesta, there is. Governments make anything become a means by It corrupts the sentiment of justice, as private conditions are sometimes outright ignored. It also corrupts education, as it becomes And all of this domination would make sense just a bunch of (potentially violent) individuals In a world where people compete to protect and the people who win over the government, they're the winners. The winners won't use their hard-earned of the vanquished and they won't limit their The idea that the government is just a moderator It's a myth to make the "losers" accept Malatesta adds that it's "an illusion, I would like to point out how interesting believe in governments utopians. Most of the time, anarchists, or more broadly here, the roles are reversed. For those interested, Kropotkin did the same "Ah, if men were those superior beings that us of, if we could close our eyes to reality, and illusions as to the superiority of those we also should do like them; perhaps we also govern. With virtuous masters, what dangers could It's more utopian to believe in a fair society one. But yes, if man was truly wolf to man (which then the government would logically be used, but as a way for some people to dominate others. Part II: Mutual Aid Thankfully, this justification, that individuals and wouldn't respect each other's liberty "Man's fundamental essential characteristics without which no living being could exist, species, without which no species could have He is naturally driven to defend his individual his offspring, against everything and everybody." With that being said, Malatesta identifies One is individual struggle, that is to say: of the same species (and by nature I mean hunger, thirst, the need for shelter...). In that case, you'd be all alone and providing But another way of surviving is by Mutual about in his book Mutual Aid: A Factor of This way of surviving is by association; by force. Humans could only develop through cooperation, We're extremely vulnerable when we're we are an incredible force. We have evolved as a species to act in a cooperative our wellbeing hinges upon. It's so deeply rooted in us that we have We feel bad when treating another human wrong Humans with strong moral feelings, such as made their community stronger, which resulted specie. We evolved to be very social, our brains and and share very complicated ideas such as the All of this makes humans what they are. We are dependent on social life and without anymore. "Every struggle aimed at gaining advantages is contrary to the social nature of modern animal state." "Solidarity, that is the harmony of interests for the wellbeing of all, and of all for the in which Man can express his personality and the greatest possible wellbeing. This is the goal towards which human evolution resolves all existing antagonisms, that would freedom of each not being limited by, but So humans, in cooperation, are not in constant The rule of "the freedom of each is limited governments because it just doesn't apply Humans are naturally cooperative, our freedoms The freer you are, the better off I am and the next chapter. 4. At the end of chapter 3, Malatesta wrote about in human beings. Chapter 4 expands on that with a quote by of all..." Let's see what he meant by that. Individuals aren't independent, they are You are a product of your environment. If your neighbour is in chains, you will greatly Your existence, Bakunin argues, will be determined "I who want to be free cannot be because free, and consequently they become tools of And by that logic, even if you only care about solidarity. Your own interest and the interest of society But this solidarity and this cooperation can Cooperation isn't always consensual. You can create something very similar to cooperation, Take, for example, a fast food production because it's better for them to do so, but They do it for the boss' profit and, if and they won't be able to feed themselves. In this case, the fruits of cooperation don't person forcing this cooperation. This is a fundamental contradiction in humankind: into different individuals, different nationalities, This contradiction is most apparent in a capitalist We cooperate together to mass-produce, but "The principle of each for himself, which course of history to complicate, to sidetrack for the greatest wellbeing of mankind which based on the principle of all for one and Malatesta sees this tendency to divide and human instincts. The principle of each for him/herself, as individual's well-being. The fight against nature has to be fought "Mankind has suffered great harm as a result in the midst of human association. But in spite of the terrible oppression to of poverty, in spite of vice, crime and the in the slaves and in the masters, in spite in spite of artificially created conflicting and developed." This is how strong our instinct for cooperation We could even say that because of these hardships, other when suffering. On top of that, Malatesta says in 1891, that production have all developed so much that Imagine what he would say now. Now more than ever, the growth and development to our own development and well-being. And, to go back to Bakunin when he said "My hinges upon all circumstances acting on all in some way, connected. Malatesta explains how someone living in the the conditions of the Italian people, "but Australia, on the discovery made by a Swedish conditions of the Chinese, on there being all the circumstances large and small which being." This vast solidarity is mostly unconscious. People don't consciously calculate how helping It's spontaneous and Malatesta says that a human instinct, it's a natural law amongst it. Now, Malatesta goes on to show how this basic me do better", should lead to the abolition Of course the liberation of every worker around worker, but it would also be beneficial for are connected to workers and by giving up a better and safer environment for their own Now, with the abolition of property, people labor, not in the service of the interest interest of humankind). And if we traded domination and economic privilege why would we need a government? "Once private property has been abolished, If it were to survive it would tend always class in one guise or another." We are used to a minority imposing and directing "cooperation would be free, voluntary and it would become that much more widespread Once individuals understand that their interest unlock inconceivable potential for the human Our methods of cooperation, our sociability, We will finally organize in order to achieve for all. People will see their neighbours as comrades They won't try to accumulate the most comfort they'll understand that if everybody is us will be much more fertile and will make "This society of free people, this society 5. In the last few chapters we saw how governments They need to exist to defend social inequalities: We have seen that competition between individuals is done through cooperation. And finally, we saw that we should abolish in order work together for the common interest. In this chapter, Malatesta answers a couple The listed objections are by authoritarians only mean the proponents of dictatorships both on the right and on the left. The first objection to the abolition of the and it goes as follows: Once private property privileges, the government would change its It would be impossible for it to defend the wouldn't be anymore classes. The government could then truly defend the protect us against people who try to reintroduce We'll go back to that in a minute. Malatesta then lists other objections such important to leave to the "free will of If it isn't the government, who would distribute Who would organize large-scale projects such Who would have the power to prevent and punish What about people who don't care about solidarity; diseases by not taking care of themselves own pleasure? Who would stop them, if not the government? Taking down the government would mean the for oneself. The domination of one over the other. In one word: Chaos. .Malatesta will answer all these questions First, he answers to the authoritarian socialists property and change the social conditions its nature. It would still seek to dominate. Malatesta talks about it in terms of organ An organ has a function: A heart pumps blood. Now, if you take away the function of an organ, that function. Now lets apply this to a social organ: an Its function is to fight. If the army has no reason to fight, if there to create a fight or disintegrate. The police force, if there are no crimes, Finally, a government and its function, defending or collapse in the absence of privileges to And we could argue that, in a classless society, of one particular class... Unless the government itself was a class. The group of people, the one that governs, It has immense power and, because of that, class. They have power and privileges and everything that power and these privileges. If someone, or a group of people, contests they would have to be dealt with. "And then the old story of the privileged of the government starts all over again and, land would certainly capture key posts, specially less than the capitalist class." "And thus government would be passed to which is the alleged government of all, would the government of a few, the government of And what an all-powerful, oppressive, all-absorbing that is at its disposal, all social wealth, of matches, from the universities to the music-halls!" Keep in mind, Malatesta wrote this in 1891, Next chapter, we'll ask ourselves "What see if that would justify the existence of We'll also answer the very interesting question to prevent and punish crime?" 6 Let's assume that, last chapter, we were class. For a moment, let's agree with those who or people that believe that authority won't Even then, more questions arise: What purpose couldn't? How would a government strengthen solidarity? Malatesta goes back to the image of the bound "We are used to living under a government and will which it can direct for its own ends; who do not serve its purpose or are hostile in society is carried out thanks to the government, no longer be any energy, intelligence or goodwill It's as if we believe that without a master monopolize private property. We also believe that, without a government, monopolizes the instruments of solidarity. The land-owner doesn't create food out of We can produce food without him. The government doesn't organize out of nothing. We can organize ourselves without it. In other words, the government uses the moral it doesn't create them. It can't create forces out of nothing; all already exists. This can throw us into a discussion on what or social action? Does it come from individuals or the collectivity Malatesta says that the question is a bit "it is in the organism of every individual have their origin, and from being individual they are or become accepted by many individuals. Social action, therefore, is neither the negation but is the resultant of initiatives, thoughts society" So with or without a government, social progress There is no need for a government to initiate Furthermore, the government could actually "And if instead, as do the authoritarians, of social action, then this is still the resultant who form the government or who by reason of the government." Under a government, a society will only progress the governors, which is extremely far from individuals. So hopefully now you understand that, when mean becoming more independent from society, "But rather it is a question of preventing giving all individuals the same rights and the initiative of the few, which inevitably It is after all a question of destroying once of man by man, so that everyone can have a instead of being destroyed or fighting among will find the possibility of complete fulfilment, of everybody." So if we go back to the utopians of authority, class, it would still reduce the potential forces of society because they only take in If non-governmental forces of society demand it until this demand is thoroughly fought Malatesta quotes French Historian Jean de "The State is always a conservative power the victories of progress, but never introduces These victories are always started down below, individual thought which is then spread far in making its way it must always meet with habit, privilege and error." We have seen this from women suffrage, to This is not only applicable for the defence The fight for cannabis legalization in Canada, slowing that progress down. But one government did finally concede and of that progress. Now some may think that it's because of but we could could argue that it is actually Alright! So governments are bad but how would society Look around you. Most of our social activities don't come travel and morality in general. When the government does intervene, it usually activity more difficult. On a large-scale, government-less cooperation across countries, such as capitalist corporations a love of one's fellow beings, or by a passion to enjoy oneself and to be applauded, are will be in a society in which, having abolished between men, everybody will find his interest satisfaction in doing good and in pleasing Malatesta argues that all aspects of society for the obstacles imposed by governments, and the discouragement felt by most people a few. In other words, in a society that promotes it won't happen. As we have said earlier, the government doesn't If the government didn't take care of the organize and do it. The government adds nothing. "And the more the need is universal and to carry it out. If the people had the power to deal with the oh! have no fear that they might just die the necessary laws to deal with the problem." People don't need a government to work, They won't let themselves starve. Not only that, but they will carry out these "if we do things now which only interest more intensively when they will be of interest Add to that the fact that the workplace would their community, not out of fear of starvation. Remember, if people work and allow themselves Anarchist associations still organize and a clear distinction between governors and While a governor is privileged and can make workers just like any other and can't impose But let's get to one of my personal favourite question: Without a government, how could a society justice system? "Many suppose that if there were no carabineers, to kill, to ravish, to harm others as the name of their principles, would wish to see and destroys the freedom and life of others." Of course, this is absurd. We believe that in a society with no private be taken care of, when competition is traded act immorally (often stemming from poverty) There would therefore be a lot less violence eliminating the roots of evil. "But supposing that as a result of the kind or for physical misfortune or for any other us and to others, one can be sure that we so doing with all the means at our disposal. Of course, because we know that man is the of the cosmic and social environment in which right of defence with the claimed ridiculous that is with he who commits anti-social acts, as happens with judges today, but the sick introduce hatred in the repression, and would of defence, and would not think of avenging unhappy person with all the means that science This quote is pretty self-explanatory. Anarchist societies will defend themselves anti-social acts like we would, today, see If your conditions, mental or social, pushed do, then something is wrong and we should Crime is not the problem, but the symptom Anyhow, Malatesta also argues that unwritten by the government, are better followed because Because they don't rely on an external force community does it itself and it's super Malatesta gives an example of desert caravans be wasted. Wasting water isn't illegal, but people regulated by their close ones. The social consequences of wasting water are, Malatesta continues: "Is it perhaps because of the gendarmes In most of the villages in Italy the gendarmes of people cross the mountains and pass through of authority, one could strike them down without are no less safe than those who live in the And statistics show that the number of crimes whereas it changes dramatically with changes of public opinion." So the government, and its police force, claim but at the same time, protect private property. Yet, private property concentrates wealth which stimulate crime, risking the security It's almost as if the cops and the government which encourages crime. So yeah, the government doesn't help when Its justice system is, in its essence, unfair Anatole France, a French poet wrote this simple, "The law, in its majestic equality, forbids bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal 7. After reading the previous 6 chapters, you cool, but I don't want to blindly jump into Give me the details of how an anarchist society Malatesta makes a list of many questions that "What methods will be used to teach children? How will production be organized? Will there still be large cities, or will the whole surface of the earth? And supposing all the inhabitants of Siberia And if everyone were to want to eat partridge And who will do a miner's job or be a seaman? And who will empty the privies? And will sick people be treated at home or And who will establish the railway timetable? And what will be done if an engine-driver Malatesta does recognize that most of these would be absurd to expect definitive answers If you do, then you have failed to understand "We are no more prophets than anyone else" It would be weird for us to prescribe particular since, by doing that we'd pretty much become What we think works now, could work better We don't know how people will perform without struggle amongst one another. It's hard to predict how much we'll develop the resources we create will be invested to Maybe we could put a lot of resources into that won't be possible. We'll see the problems that face us as a "What is important is that a society should and domination of man by man is not possible; means of life, of development and of work, and know how, in the organisation of social In such a society obviously all will be done the framework of existing knowledge and conditions; growth of knowledge and the means." So anarchism isn't an end goal. We don't believe that once anarchy is completed, be fine. We will still face problems. Anarchism isn't an end goal, it's a method. There are two popular non-anarchist methods: Authoritarianism believes that a minority inevitably leads to oppression as seen earlier. Liberalism, not in the American "progressive" defence of property, reduction of government, to right now. Liberalism, of course, does not defend liberty have the liberty to exploit the powerless, This does not lead to harmony, but to more "each for him or herself" principle: competition. So what is the anarchist method? The victory of the principle of solidarity This means that everybody will be needed to what anarchy points you towards: Not to a Don't rely on authority and don't rely how to build a better society. Rely on yourself. Through trial and error, through the counselling and wishes of everybody, you can find a solution, you're asking. Anarchism empowers you. If you remember, at the beginning of this was: What methods will be used to teach children? Here's Malatesta's answer: "We don't know. So what will happen? Parents, pedagogues and all who are concerned come together, will discuss, will agree or will put into practice the methods which they And with practice that method which in fact Now, apply this to all the questions asked This is the answer. "Anarchy, in common with socialism, has essential environment, equality of conditions; method. It is not perfection, it is not the absolute as we approach it; but it is the way open benefit of everybody." For the next chapter, we'll be talking about each other. We'll look over one last argument against a bit about revolution. 8 &amp; 9 So far, we established that anarchy is the for humankind, since it abolishes classes abolishes competition between individuals. We also established that applying this method Malatesta brings up what is, to me, one of This argument acknowledges the fact that anarchism thriving society, but it also says that it make humans work together if they were brought Bear with me for this long quote, but I really "We find ourselves in a world which has and if the former are full of the spirit of the latter are broken by servility and have The feeling of solidarity is far from being is competition which presses on everybody, man into an enemy in the eyes of his neighbour. How will these men, brought up in a society be able to change themselves suddenly and everyone will do as he wishes and must do, force of his own will, seek the welfare of With what single-mindedness, with what common and of mankind to an ignorant mob, weakened which today will be blindly bloodthirsty, clumsily deceived by a rogue, or bow its head dictator who dares to make himself master?" So here, the argument recognizes the fact wouldn't need a government, but it says up in a world based on competition, both side-effects to a completely different worldview. How could someone who grew up in a capitalist to work and who sees their neighbour as someone society? Someone who advocates for the destruction which would gradually educate people to become Once that happens, then the government could This is an idea marxists call "the withering It's the belief that once there is no more power in social relations becomes superfluous of itself. The government of persons is replaced by the of the processes of production. The state is not &quot;abolished&quot;, it withers away." Friedrich Engels But, anarchists believe that the state can't Being a concentration of power, it will always to protect its privileges. On top of that, as stated earlier, the government of society. Everything that happens in the world is done If you want to educate people, teach them is in their interest, you can do it without The current forces of society, without being an anarchist revolution because the government There are no reasons to lead a revolution Without a government, people will still influence We don't need to force people to cooperate, Abolishing the government won't mean we'll stop working together. We are mutually dependent! We will organize when the government is abolished, because "The abolition of this mutual influence And when we vindicate the freedom of the masses, of any of the natural influences that individuals we want is the abolition of influences which Mikhail Bakunin. In chapter 9, Malatesta gives examples as organize without a government: If people want to teach and spread knowledge, A government could not just create such people The government would just force these teachers method, a method that most likely will reinforce A revolution wouldn't destroy the forces Free to develop in the direction they want, This would unlock an unknown potential that "And this is the only way that the masses freedom that one educates oneself to be free, learn to work." This is very similar to what Immanuel Kant for acquiring the maturity for freedom, not been achieved" A revolutionary government doesn't only as the capitalists they're overthrowing, to learn how to govern themselves. Actually governing yourself is the best way If you let someone else govern for you, you On top of that comes the classic question government would take?". Well it would definitely not be a dictatorship because again, who would decide who this group One can only impose themselves as the ruler, But what if we elect the people that govern Let's imagine that they are, unlike the Well first, Malatesta raises concern for minorities He also brings up the interesting point that to are also the most active, intelligent and But aside from that, if we decide that we ready to govern themselves, then how can we decide who can govern? So no, a government is not desirable, nor To solve the problems plaguing society, there We need to identify the roots of these problems: wealth and the government who protects them. Appropriate the social wealth and its sources the community, therefore guaranteeing that Trade competition for cooperation, thereby by others. Of course, there will be challenges, but those We will discuss and determine what's best And even if we are defeated, that we lose the masters, our struggle wouldn't have more we promote our ideas, the less property And if we consider that human progress is property are reduced, then we are pushing "And if today we fall without compromising, Thank you so much for watching, thank you and I'd like to thank Mike Wix, Roman Brendel, for supporting the channel. If you also want to support the channel, check