Proposed carbon supporters and opponents spectrum. As companies work to the projects, we'll talk this edition Funding for Iowa Friends, the Iowa The Associated General public's partner in bridge and municipal Elite Casino Resorts Elite was founded 30 years by 1,200 Iowans from With resorts in Riverside, Iowa, Elite is committed serve. Across Iowa, hundreds of to serve their and help local businesses. Iowa banks are proud to Learn more at iowabankers.com. For decades, Iowa political leaders and Iowa and beyond. Celebrating 50 years of statewide Iowa PBS, this edition of Iowa Press. Here is Kay Henderson. Henderson: This the three proposed carbon will stretch through states. Let's take a look at the these three would pass. You're looking at the map Wolf Pipeline in blue through the state and ethanol plants. In the purple, you'll Pipeline. It would stretch across counties in Iowa and underground storage. And finally, the Navigator which has been called the red. It would stretch 800 miles and end in underground Our guests today are She is the Vice President Navigator. And Jess Mazour is Conservation for the Iowa Club. Joining our conversation of Iowa Public Radio and in Cedar Rapids. Murphy: So, we wanted to carbon capture pipelines of us at this table who know what that means, but haven't been following let me start with you, describe what is exactly What do they do? And what is the goal Burns-Thompson: Sure, component piece of what is system. So, from start to finish each of our shippers, ethanol plants or those facilities are equipment that captures That CO2 is then further where it changes from Then it is transported pipeline infrastructure, referenced to So, you'll note I said Ours necessarily from component piece being And I'm sure we'll talk a that works later. But also, we're along that footprint accessibility to that CO2 here across the Midwest. Murphy: And Jess, one of propose and support these a benefit for Your group is obviously about protecting Why does Sierra Club projects? Mazour: Well, there's take issue with And really it comes down projects are all risk for for the people who work invest in the So, we know that these farmland but it is an it is a misuse of This federal tax credit these projects is meant make an impact on And there are lots of we know can mitigate And these projects are think that they are they're going to do. And there is a good chance the end of the day where be used to pump more oil then eventually removes the climate. So, there's a But I think it comes down in Iowa, we do not benefit the people who own them Murphy: Elizabeth, what particularly in any comes up that discussion safe are these? And how much of a landowners that this will there won't be irreparable by these projects? Burns-Thompson: Sure, so both from the safety of kind of the fulsomeness I'll try to touch on both. But when you're looking transportation that are goods or services today, hazardous liquid sector, classifies as, there's barges and/or pipelines. And when you look at the of transportation, bounds in terms of Largely, that is the variables that are further pipeline transportation. In the United States we CO2, liquid CO2 operates today, some of Kansas and North Dakota successfully and Masters: We want to get these pipelines. First of all, we saw the Wolf Carbon Solutions been taken care of as far route going. About two-thirds for Where does the progress are at Navigator for this pipeline in Burns-Thompson: Sure, so I this is a robust Robust infrastructure timeline. We really brought the to have conversations December of 2021 That is when we kicked informational meeting necessary first step development of I think what most folks have conversations with informational meeting county. So, that is necessarily We then take that along that is necessary as next start with a broader down both through the also the technical gather via that survey sure that we're routing footprint in a manner that landowners as well as all components from Think environmental components, cultural significance that need That is a long process. Then you get into landowners. We didn't come forward and on dollars and cents and last fall. So, we haven't been out months. To date in Iowa, I showed that we spent about way. The project overall we So, we are continuing to long pathway. Masters: And Jess, some of know that your personally have been some of these counties talk a little bit about have met with of environmentalists and coalition that you Mazour: Yeah, I'd be I do want to address brought up in These projects are not companies say. And this kind of goes back we've seen all three They're willing to say or pipelines approved. And it's not the total are safe. We're talking about CO2 to a liquid and put under there's only 5,000 miles in the country. So, it's relatively new untested. But we did see a rupture Mississippi and it put hospital and over 300 And we know that when CO2 is released into a heavier than air so it areas. And if you're in that It displaces oxygen. And your car doesn't work, and try to escape. And PHMSA, the federal did an investigation into and determined that they because they don't have place for those pipelines. And so, one of the things state level is trying to pipeline company so that our communities And so, the state of Iowa three pipeline companies the plume modeling to see the event of a rupture and so our rural volunteer prepared. And Navigator, as well refused to file those and pipeline companies sued counties for stepping their own citizens So, I think that that's up that these are But in regards to our highlights why this and so strong is because safety or when it comes or private out-of-state taking private land for has brought a lot of We're working with people democrats, who are farmers, local county and it spans across And when they did a recent Iowans do not want eminent pipeline projects. So, it just shows that and these pipeline and mislead and force people's throats. But right now I think what coalition is strong and half since these have been continues to grow and it day and more and more to object. And so, I think that focusing on is Iowans do Henderson: Elizabeth, is answer questions Burns-Thompson: mischaracterization So, safety is necessarily government. And when you break it down interplay between what the role and then the roles subject matter experts Safety is something, this safe in Illinois as it is Dakota, Minnesota And that is why safety federal level so that every component piece As it relates to siting pipeline, that is an given specifically As it relates to crossing county roads, those are given directly So, it's not to say that shouldn't and can't have should. But, much like we talk aspects of permitting spaces where folks are have been given that Henderson: At the of Representatives bill that would have the two companies that are domain authority to owners who aren't easements to have the have required 90% approval could be requested. Critics, like the Association, said it Would it have killed became law? Burns-Thompson: I think it to develop infrastructure So, yes. What I would tell you is there hasn't been in place. Iowa would have been the across the finish line. To date I think states, Iowa, federal siting an arbitrary I think it's a function processes that exist right the landowners are same standard and not just the first We have processes right everyone, regardless of timeline of easement same fulsome level Henderson: Jess, in case following, that bill died the Senators who were bill that would have some was their assessment that pipelines want the the pipelines and they some modest regulations, as the 90% threshold and restoration things. Why aren't critics at some rather than all? Mazour: I'd say, first bill is dead. Really it might not have only thing holding it back is the political will and can change. And we definitely support 90% threshold. We would clearly like to eminent domain for carbon the Pandora's box and if companies to come in and they can take private land we've allowed many other the future and abuse So, we do obviously would But the 90% threshold is landowners have said that And I think that if a high of a level of pretty clear they're And that is not a good force yourself on people So, I think we have to be legislature to make sure still something they can pushing them. And then also another legislative session in pipelines, two of the had hearings yet. And so that means we session, we'll be at the Capitol every week to the 2024 elections. Henderson: And I think the Iowa Utilities Board hearings this fall in Pipeline. Erin? Murphy: Elizabeth, this couple of times and one of was a leader on that opposition to the argument public good. When we're talking about government requiring projects to go through you could address that. Why should eminent domain private companies for Burns-Thompson: Sure. And just for background, application either, such background to application condemnation authority is, good, public access. Generally those tenants of a common carrier. We as Navigator operate pipelines that are crude and other refined state such that we are behalf of our shippers. So, at its core CO2 from point A to point those that are on that line. If there is an additional market, we open, I should season where we came to what interest there is carrier concepts. And twofold, as there is interest or needs for manufacturing sectors that state as we're looking at refined into, bio-based potentially a new wave infrastructure is what accessibility to bring sectors back What I also want to make when we talk about eminent resort, that's not If you back up and look at its core functionality, it doesn't save us money and friends. And whether you are a corner coffee shop or world, you're looking at financial resources and you're doing business with So, if for sheer purposes at its core we do this project fashion as much Murphy: And maybe just ask Jess something here step back and maybe more speaking, again, the use federal tax incentives projects financially much private projects significant ways by Why should that Make that case to viewers. Why should the government propping up is a fair way so much in these Burns-Thompson: The variety of different developments each and or other modes of Again, I get back to absolutely have If you have a demand have a supply of CO2, it common carrier to participate in that line similar to accessibility type transportation this country. Murphy: Jess, it has been but there are 5,000 pipelines throughout the miles and miles and pipelines operating What is it about Why is this one, one that opposed to versus other there? Mazour: I think there's It kind of goes back to all rewards for These aren't They don't provide There's no tap at the where you can go get your that's ridiculous, Public projects are roads lines and things that citizens. And these projects These are private one of their investors So that's not, it's not public good when we're massive amounts of tax BlackRock. Just the tax credits alone these projects are upwards these three projects And I think that's We should not be spending private projects that dangerous pipelines and communities. There's much better ways our money to actually and there's better ways our soil. If we were to farm about building healthy growing and how we are a lot more carbon than Murphy: Again, just real you make those same pipelines that have I guess I'm just specifically, these -- Mazour: Yeah, well of this magnitude that Dakota Access and now Navigator and Wolf. So, what we've seen just the multitude of And so that is one reason we've fought Dakota that process, we damage pipeline and to our And then this one is in a big way because not damage of the construction environment, but it's that should be spent in climate change and these If these rupture in the die. They're by schools. Masters: I want to bring was talking about services, and these are Folks that I have spoken real small towns have about responding if there rupture. What kind of conversations officials, Elizabeth, responding to the disaster were to happen? Burns-Thompson: So, we've done a robust front to date, both our initial outreach, we of the informational throughout the But we knew that those first responders, as well, grew up in an fire department. Not only is it largely we also have a lot of partners, mutual neighboring areas, when we're going out and work with those folks we have all of those entities not just the communities directly on the pipeline So, to take a step back on again, that's not So, what we did throughout January and February is communities, not just in the whole 1,300 miles, communities and did a speed on what is CO2, what itself, ask questions construction, the operation. The next step from that with those communities very localized basis to aspects of your community? And let's incorporate response plans because all when it comes to And then from there, step inventory of the tools, maybe additional trainings The fourth step of We want to make sure that just words on a page, effectuate response times, and things like that. Only at that point would to go into service. Henderson: So, who pays the extra equipment? Burns-Thompson: Those are as the company and we've meeting that I've Mazour: We've spoken with across the state who have any of the pipeline prepared. They have been asking response plans like you've help them prepare and refused to file any I think that is incredibly people are prepared. And when we have spoken gone to one of these come out of it thinking really safe, that's how We've even heard that companies have related the CO2 in a pop can. And so, we know that the incredibly dangerous and working, doing much better with the state of being because there are risks -- minute left and Clay Masters: Just quickly technology seen to be would want? 20, 30 years? There seems to be a lot biofuels and ethanol How long-term would this Elizabeth? Burns-Thompson: Sure, and knowing that we're The longevity of these perpetuity. Carbon management and things that we produce here to stay. So, the initial ethanol and ammonia first step. We're going to see processors both from an off-take perspective as industries to look at value-added projects Masters: And Jess, quickly federal folks are looking you see this being going to be pushing back of years? Mazour: Yeah, I think back against these solutions that are And I know that these have already had hearings timelines and So, I'm showing, it's opposition is strong. We don't want them. And we are going to keep state. Henderson: Well, we have this table right now Thanks to all of you You can watch every iowapbs.org. For everyone here at Iowa Funding for Iowa Friends, the Iowa The Associated General public's partner in bridge and municipal Elite Casino Resorts Elite's 1,600 employees asset. A family-run business, volunteerism, encourages shares profits Across Iowa, hundreds of to serve their and help local businesses. Iowa banks are proud to Learn more at iowabankers.com.