[music] - [Jeffrey] If you're a skeptic, okay. I actually recommend that you question the So for me, the reason I have the beliefs that I've had. When I share those experiences with you, hopefully some similar experiences to base your beliefs But I actually think that it's a little bit to my experiences and then base your beliefs So if you're skeptical, I just want to say I'm that way too, but these are my actual All right. So I'm going to tell you that because this a little bit of a stretch. Now this technique that I use, this is so me to manage complexity. So when I'm trying to scale up my business of things I have to do or the amount of ideas I found that this technique is the one thing and make that easier. I'll give you two ways to do it. So the geometry we're going to work with is When I say geometry, I'm not talking about I'm talking about a three-dimensional construct Now sometimes it helps if you have a visual. So maybe we can get a little visual and put but the...I'll just walk you through a quick get it is for you to have that experience Does that sound good? Do a quick exercise? Okay. All right. So this is very simple. So just close your eyes, and I want you to that's right out in front of you, maybe about Maybe you can visualize that. Maybe you can just kind of feel it. What we're doing is we're working on that The rose is actually not the important part. Okay. So now that you got that, I want you to imagine about the same distance, so kind of about So you've got these two roses. Then imagine that you're going to create one your body. So just kind of imagine. Just visualize this. Feel this around you. Okay. Good. Now you want to...You're going to connect It's going to make kind of like a diamond So just in your mind, just visualize this front to the right, from the right to the front. So you've got this diamond around your body. Okay. Looks good. Now I want you to create a rose up above your front, to the right, behind, and to the left. If you're getting this right, you're noticing, It's kind of like a four-sided pyramid, and So just kind of focus on that until it feels Okay. Good. Now imagine that there's a rose down below with straight lines to those points on the So now you've got a pyramid pointed up and As you do that, I want you to notice what you've created a very powerful container for This is one of the fundamental geometries I've done some scientific research that's, but if you want to read more about that, you [inaudible 00:04:36] and these teachers that But for now, just have the feeling because the actual experience that's going to change Okay. Very good. All right. So now that you understand the geometry, I Think of something that you're working on It might feel like you've sort of become your Right? So for me, if I'm teaching, sometimes I can't I can't stop thinking about work. But I need to sleep. I need to have a personal life. So just imagine a situation like that for Okay. Now what you're going to do is I want you Where is that activity where you're thinking Is it inside that container that you created? Inside that geometry? Is it inside your body? My guess is yes. If you're feeling it, if you're thinking about You've become the energy of your project. Now, very simply, you're going to just imagine It's a very simple, little octahedron with Then you're going to create one out in front maybe 10 meters out in front of you, and that project excitement is going to go. So you're just going to feel it leaving your just as powerful, but that's going to give So just feel that energy moving out and really putting it into, because if you can see it, When I say, &quot;See it,&quot; remember you can think, You can think, &quot;Create.&quot; It's not a...It doesn't have to appear physically. Okay. Very good. Then the next step on that is when you think Okay. I want you to remember where did you put your Right. so maybe I wake up in the morning. I've been feeling great. I need to get to work, but I'm kind of thinking Not thinking about that project anymore, but Because I've separated it from my space, I So what you do is you just remember, &quot;Where I put it out here. I put it that space out...I put it on the I put it far out.&quot; You just grab that geometry, and you just Essentially what you're doing is just, just It's back on. I'm tuned into the students.I'm tuned to the That fast activity that was happening in my because now I want it. Now I'm going to go back to work. What's so cool about this is when you start projects in the space around you, and you You can just take one kind of off the shelf, then you know how to take it out and let it [inaudible 00:07:58] for you, Vishen, that like this, whether it's conscious or not, of projects and people and a tremendous amount So you're doing something like this, whether - [Vishen] I am. I am. I can give you a couple of examples of how Well, many people who are listening are not Right. So phase one of the six-phase meditation is love. I start with a simple exercise, visualizing generates the feeling of love. I want to know what that feels like, and thinking Then I project that through a series of layers our customers and everyone here, and then So that's one way, and it generates compassion Another way is forgiveness. I always forgive someone or something every I start my day with forgiveness. So those two things are two examples of using days to be even more better. - Yeah. So that's great. What I was talking about, though, is like - In what way? - Whether you know it or not, you're using...Like time we met, and I was doing a kind of...You tuning in and telling you a little bit about I noticed that your energy looks different, seen. The way your...Your energy is in motion in a barrier in the way, it sort of just kind If you...So you're working very powerfully you consciously do. - I see. See that. So that's unique to me. I'm not doing anything conscious. - Right. Yeah, but it's part of your spirit imprint When you move from life to life...Because You've been here before, and you've been making So this is kind of a little part of your personal - I see. - Yeah, but there's a...I want to talk a little of ground it into...make it a little bit more had the experience, and I mentioned that this how space/time divide, is how things actually You're just visualizing something that's close in your visualization. What's fun is just even this simple visualization If you look around in kind of sacred texts, The example that I really like is I used to so a Native American tribe, and they really that they teach in the sweat lodge, and even They'll say, &quot;We're going to honor the north.We're We're going to honor the east and the west It sounds like a really sort of beautiful that geometry. Right? So, we're going to honor the north, the point you I had you create, the west and east, to your body, below, below your feet, and within, which is your heart space, that sacred heart So when they tell this story and use the land going with your attention, what they're really around the body, because that's the fundamental you more present into your body.