I'm about to tell you the story of very brave orca. A very special whale that lives among humans This is Morgan, the young protagonist of this story. A very special whale born a few months ago. Don't worry sweetie, you are still too young. The time went by, first a few days, But fishing was still very difficult for her. Wow! Come on sweetie, you can do it! Ha ha ha! Wow! Amazing! Congratulations! I'm very proud of you. We found a herring shoal. It's lunch time! Ouch! Don't get anxious. Someday you will learn how to fish properly. You only need to practice. Fishing in groups is difficult, but we need to do it together if we want to get some food. It's not easy mom. When I was young like you, but then one day I made it. You just have to pay attention to how we do it! Don't go too far. I'll never be able to fish herring like them. No matter how hard I try, I can't do it. Mom? Mom!? Where are you? Mom! Mommy! Please, Mom! I'm scared! Baby? Baby? Mom? Mom? Mom! And that's how Morgan got lost in the sea. Knowing nothing about fishing, or finding food. So what really happens to her, days went by and since she wasn't able to get food by herself she wandered aimlessly, hopelessly. She knew she had to eat something or else she would die. Mom? But suddenly, her luck changed. An orca? What's she doing in these shallow waters? Don't worry, girl. I'm here to help you. She is very weak. She must have spent a long time without eating. There is no time to lose. She is injured and very weak. She needs food. That can be easily solved. Come on, girl! You can do it. She is apparently unable. I hope it's not too late. I don't think she'll make it through the night. We'll take care of her. How is she? She is doing her best to live. But I don't think she'll make it. I don't think she'll survive. Wait... great! She must be very hungry. We'll car her Morgan. Thanks for saving me and for feeding me. Soon, Morgan slowly regain her strength and became a very popular whale in Hardwick Dolphinarium. Everyone wanted to visit the famous orca that was rescued from the sea. After four long months, she is finally feeling better. I got some bad news, Lars. There is a group of activist that want Morgan A judge is deciding whether she'll stay here That's nonsense. No one found her family. And she needs to be in a group with more orcas She won't survive back in the sea. Then we should find a much bigger dolphinarium for Morgan. Don't worry Morgan, we'll always take care of you. Lars Hi, boss. Morgan is very scared. I know. We are strengthening our security measures. And the judge has already spoken. They asked an experts committee about what to do with Morgan. Have they decided yet? She can't stay here. We have to find a much bigger dolphinarium with human care. Put to death? Do you know about any dolphinarium It has to be second to none. by both the experts committee and the judge. I know one. It's the best dolphinarium in the world. They don't only have a much bigger home, And some of the best experts in the world to take care of her. Wow! What an amazing place. I'm really going to live here? Awesome! Welcome to your new home, Morgan. I'm Kohana, she is Skyla, Tekoa, Keto Who are you? Haven't you heard our names? We're your new family. Good morning, everyone. Have you already welcomed your new friend? Where is Morgan? Silvia, do you think she'll be accepted in her new family? Yeah, I'm sure she will. I've read her medical reports and behavioral patterns. I would like to conduct some medical tests. Do you think she is sick? No, I can see she is fine thanks to all of you. But there may be something hinging her learning process. Something we haven't seen yet. What are you doing here by yourself? Come with us. You must meet Silvia, our vet. Hi, Morgan. Welcome to Loro Parque. We'll look after you here. You'll pass a medical examination now Lots of mother, fathers and kids will be eager to see you. Wow! How did they do that? That's the best family you will have, Morgan. But first, we need to check your health. And that is how I met Morgan. A very brave whale. And I found out what was really wrong with her. Don't worry, Morgan. We're only checking your health in search of diseases. Going to the doctor is lame, I know. But, it's important if you want to be healthy. Something is not right. What's the matter? Look at those figures. Do we have the results yet? There is no doubt. Morgan suffers from a severe hearing impairment. I'm an expert in hearing tests in cetaceans. The results are clear: Morgan is a deaf whale. We need to inform the authorities. Morgan cannot live in the sea. If she can't communicate with others, she won't be able to hunt fish either Is she deaf from birth? We don't really know. But we've known for years that noise pollution in the sea is causing many communicative problems and deafness among cetaceans. Many dolphins are found with hearing issues. It's possible that the origin of Morgan's hearing impairment is in some event caused by noise pollution in the sea. She was injured when we found her. Now that we know what's wrong with her, She may not be able to listen We'll create a system of lights to talk to her. And who better than her new friend Adan to help her understand it. Hey, Morgan. You know? You are the bravest whale I've ever meet. We'll help you learn anything you need. Don't worry. That's right. Very good! Welcome to your new family. In December 2012, a group of international researchers, experts in the study of cetaceans hearing, In spite of countless attacks carried out Dutch judicial authorities confirmed for the 10th time that Loro Parque has top quality facilities for animals, including Morgan and the rest of the orcas. Even though she is deaf, thanks to the sign language their careers created for her. And shares a home with a new family. In September 2018, Morgan became a mother for the first time. Bringing new life is the happiest ending for this story. The journey of a brave orca saved for a certain death by true animal lovers.