How do you destroy a bunker made of concrete, never been done before? That was a challenge for as Iraqis intelligence and command personnel so deep underground, that the US and the rest of But in an unbelievable feat of the US military designed, manufactured in less than 4 weeks, which left but to surrender. And that weapon looked Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in August of acquiring their large oil reserves, and Kuwait had loaned to Iraq which had funded As economic sanctions proved ineffective, the United States led a coalition which launched multiple air campaigns with the the quantity and quality of Iraqi bunkers became there were up to 40 bunkers near Baghdad, where Guards, and critical command and control were buried 30 to 50 feet below the surface, hardened penetration bombs, which were designed A team consisting of US Air Force engineers had developed the BLU-109, immediately started a new weapon was needed, and many options were the BLU-109, to an Unmanned Hypersonic Vehicle. new weapons would at least take months, and they engineers at Eglin Air Force Base proposed a a B-52, from such high altitudes that would have highly hardened target. The biggest challenge, of had to be able to penetrate through deep layers Someone had the idea that the Army 8-inch material properties to do the job. So the Eglin ship some of those barrels to Watervliet Arsenal. expertise and precision in machining gun barrels, Howitzer barrels into the body of the bombs. finalized and Eglin had to provide a go-/no-go It was decided that the delivery of the bomb the 6,500 lb bomb had to be downsized to 4,700 lb. worked with Lockheed ... and also Rockwell, who were for the F-111. In parallel, the explosive pellets at the LTV Dallas location, and a batch of BLU-109 During the go/no-go decision 1991, Eglin air base committed and two operational rounds in just two weeks, and Watervliet had received the Howitzer barrels, At Watervliet, the machinists were working seven to produce the penetrator's body. External hoops to the penetrator's rough length, and its chrome bomb had to proceed even though its design was not in, while the machining was in progress. A 30-hour while at the same time, Lockheed engineers worked it would fit the nose cone. The gun's rifling, military role, was machined away. In total, it's made during the manufacturing process, something As the transformation from cannon to penetrator body using a heat shrink operation, then preheated 12-hour welding operation. Multiple wing on the munition body. As finishing operations On the morning of Saturday, February 16th, Air Force's Air National Guard C-130 cargo The second bomb followed a few three and four began immediately at Watervliet. Once the bomb casings arrived at Eglin Air Force 13-ft casing was larger than anything previously existing facilities. The loading had to be done hold the casing upright, they had to dig a hole One round was filled with concrete for a explosives in a 37-hour process. 630 lb of molten by wooden rods, because the kettles were not The assembled penetrator was outfitted with a body, and stabilizing fins attached to the rear. On Feb 24th, 1991, the super and an inert test drop was initiated The weapon hit the desert floor at supersonic was so deep that it was decided not to dig it up, Two days later a rocket sled test was conducted bomb was fired against a 22-foot thick The penetrator was found over half through the barrier. It was obvious to Satisfied with the results, rounds 3 and 4 explosives at Eglin air force base. They were in preparation for the drops. On February 27th, laser-guided penetrators on a command and control officials. The first aircraft missed the target. look closely, in a few seconds you will see This suggested that the bomb had found its verified using bomb assessment photos, showing With only one test drop, the GBU-28 holds the operational deployment. Most US Air Force bombs It has been argued that the hasty Iraqi ceasefire something to do with Saddam Hussein learning that bunkers were no longer safe. Although in the days fleeing, and the day before the bomb was dropped, Kuwait. But the GBU-28 bunker buster may very well