(latch clicking) &quot;It works&quot; by RHJ. &quot;The Famous Little Red Book &quot;That Makes Your Dreams Come True!&quot; A clear, definite common Originally published in 1926. This book, with its valuable by the Master Key Society. Copyright 2021 Master Key Society. Read by Randy Scott. &quot;All you joy would win must share it, &quot;happiness was born a twin.&quot; Byron. &quot;The author sent the manuscript &quot;to a friend who returned it &quot;This judgment born of &quot;as the title of the book.&quot; Publishers. A concise, definite, explanations and suggestions in life. If you know what you The man who wrote this and widely known for his He gives full credit for in mastering circumstances, accumulating wealth, and winning friends to the silent working out of which he tells of in his work. He shows you here an easy, happier life. Knowing that the greatest without expecting praise. The author of this work has requested that his name be omitted. What is the real secret of Are some people born under a lucky star or other charm which that which seems so desirable, and if not, what is the cause of the difference in conditions under which men live? Many years ago, feeling that there must to this question, I decided to find out, I found the answer to my own satisfaction, and for years, have given who have used it successfully. From a scientific, psychological some of the following as incorrect, but nevertheless, the plan has brought the who have followed the simple instructions and it is my sincere belief in a way which will bring to many more. &quot;If wishes were horses, is the attitude taken by in regard to possessions. They're not aware of a power so near that it is overlooked; so simple in operation that and so sure in results that it is not made use of consciously, or recognized as the cause &quot;Gee, I wish that were mine,&quot; is the outburst of Jimmy, the office boy, as a new red roadster goes by; and Florence, the telephone operator, expresses the same in the jeweler's window; while poor old Jones, the bookkeeper, during the Sunday stroll, &quot;Yes, dear, it would be nice &quot;but it is out of the question. &quot;We will have to continue to rent.&quot; Landem, the salesman, protests gets the short end of the money and will someday quit his and President Bondum, in voices a bitter tirade of hay fever. At home, it is much the same. Last evening, father was headed straight for disaster, and today, mother's allowance problem and other trying affairs as she exclaims, &quot;This is the last straw. &quot;Robert's school teacher wants &quot;His reports are terrible, &quot;I know, but I'm late for Bridge now. &quot;She'll have to wait until tomorrow.&quot; So goes the endless stream from millions of people in all to what they really want, and who are getting all they If you're one of these millions of thoughtless talkers or wishers and would like a decided change you can have it; but first of all, you and this is no easy task. When you can train your objective mind, the mind you use every day, to decide definitely upon the things or conditions you desire, you will have taken your first or securing what you know you want. To get what you want is no than the radio waves all around you. Tune in correctly and but to do this, it is, of course, necessary to know and have a plan of operation. You have within you a mighty power, anxious and willing to serve you, a power capable of giving you that which you earnestly desire. This power is described by Thomson Jay Hudson, Ph.D., LL.D., author of &quot;The Law of Psychic Phenomena&quot; as your subjective mind. Other learned writers use but all agree that it is omnipotent. Therefore, I call this Power, Emmanuel. God in us. Regardless of the name of the Great Power or the conscious admission of a God, the Power is capable and and perfect conclusion, very earnest desire of but you must be really in Occasional wishing or half-hearted wanting does not form a perfect with your Omnipotent Power. You must be in earnest, sincerely and truthfully or things, mental, physical, or spiritual. Your objective mind and that you usually only wish capable power within Most wishes are simply vocal expressions. Jimmy, the office boy, gave no thought of Landem, the salesman was not or even thinking at all. President Bondum knew he had hay fever and was expecting it. Father's business was and mother no doubt from the Bridge party, that day, but they had no fixed idea of what they really wanted and were actually helping to bring about the unhappy If you are in earnest about here is a concise, definite, explanations, and suggestions. The plan. Write down on paper in order and conditions you really want. Do not be afraid of wanting too much. Go the limit in writing down your wants. Change the list daily, adding to or taking from it, until you have it about right. Do not be discouraged as this is natural. There will always be changes and additions with accomplishments Three positive rules of accomplishment. One, read the list of what morning, noon, and night. Two, think of what you Three, do not talk to anyone to the Great Power within you which will unfold to your objective mind the method of accomplishment. It is obvious that you cannot Some of your desires, from may seem positively unattainable; but, nevertheless, write in their proper place There is no need to analyze is going to accomplish your desires. Such a procedure is as unnecessary why a grain of corn placed in fertile soil shoots up a green stalk, blossoms and produces an ear of corn containing hundreds of grains, each capable of doing If you will follow this definite plan and carry out the three simple rules, the method of accomplishment will unfold quite as mysteriously as the ear of corn appears on the stalk, and in most cases much When new desires, deserving position at or come to you, then you may rest assured you Removing from your list items which at first you thought you wanted, is another sure indication of progress. It is natural to be distrust, and questionings, but when these thoughts Read it over; or if you have it memorized, talk to your inner self about your desires until the doubts that interfere Remember, nothing can which you earnestly desire. Others have these things. Why not you? The Omnipotent Power within you does not enter into any It is waiting and willing but your objective mind is that it's almost impossible to make any satisfactory progress when surrounded by skeptics. Therefore, choose your friends carefully and associate with people who now have some of the but do not discuss your method Put down in your list of as money, home, automobile, Do not stop there. Be more definite. If you want an automobile, color, and all other details, If you want a home, plan the structure, Decide on location and cost. If you want money, write down the amount. If you want to break a record It may be a sales record. If so, write out the then the number of items also list your prospects and put after each name the sum expected. This may seem very foolish at first, but you can never realize your desires if you do not know how positively and in detail what you If you cannot decide this, you are not in earnest. You must be definite, and when you are, results and almost unbelievable. A natural and ancient when you get your first This enemy is discredit, in &quot;It can't be possible; &quot;it just happened to be. &quot;What a remarkable coincidence!&quot; When such thoughts occur, give thanks and assert credit for the accomplishment. By doing this, you gain assurance and and in time, prove to which actually works at all times when you are in tune with it. Sincere and earnest thanks cannot be given without gratitude and it is impossible to without being happy. Therefore, when you are and best friend, your Omnipotent Power, for the gifts received, do so with all your soul and let it be reflected in your face. The Power and what it does Do not try to understand it, but accept the accomplishment and strengthened faith. Caution. It is possible to want and obtain that which will make you miserable; that which will wreck that which will cause sickness and death; that which will rob you of eternal life. You can have what you want, but you must take all that goes with it: so in planning your wants, plan that which you are and your fellow man the thus paving way to that future hope beyond the pale of human understanding. This method of securing to everything you are capable of desiring and the scope being so great, it is suggested that your of those things with which such as an amount of or the possession of material things. Such desires as these are more than the discontinuance of fixed habits, the welfare of others, or bodily ills. Accomplish the lesser things first. Then take the next step, and when that is accomplished, you will seek the higher and really important objectives in life, but long before you reach many worthwhile desires will One will be to help others Great is the reward to those who help and give without thought of self, as it is impossible to be In conclusion. A short while ago, Dr. Emil and showed thousands of Thousands of other spoofed at the idea, refused his assistance, and are today where they So with the statements and you can reject or accept. You can remain as you are The choice is yours, but God grant that you may the inspiration to choose aright, follow the plan and thereby all things, whatever they may be, that you desire. Read the entire book over again, and again, and then again. Memorize the three simple Test them now on what you This book could have extended but it has been deliberately shortened to make it as easy as possible for you to read, understand, and use. Will you try it? Thousands of bettered lives that &quot;It Works.&quot; A letter to you from the author. Dear reader: The great possessions of life are all gifts mysteriously bestowed: sight, hearing, aspiration, The same is true of ideas, the richest of them are given to us, as for instance, the powerful idea which What are you gonna do with it? Are you surprised when I tell you the most is give it away? You can do this in an by having this book sent to In this way, you can help in the distribution to make the lives of You know people who are standing still or who are worried and discouraged. This is your chance to If you withhold this book from them, you will lose the conscious satisfaction that comes from doing good. If you see that they get this book, then you put yourself in line with the law of life which says, &quot;You get by giving,&quot; and you may rightly expect At the very least, you will have the inner sense with no hope of being openly thanked and your reward will come secretly in added power and larger life. The author.