Have you tried strumming the guitar with doing it right? Watch this video and I'll techniques for strumming with your end. Hey there I'm Tomas Michaud from Real subscribe to my YouTube channel. That way, play guitar with confidence, connect with reasons that you might want to strum Now one of the reasons that you might that's happened to me several times I pick up someone's guitar and I don't the best reason to strum with your different sound. It's actually my go-to can get such a variety of sounds with my I'm gonna show you four different fingers and your thumb. Now neither are better or worse they're just different might find one of these really speaks to several different ones in your arsenal They'll work on both on acoustic or a string that's what I mean. And I'll show I'll pull up my steel string just to sure and hang out to the end because I'm techniques including how to get a started. For the first technique we'll only using my thumb. Sounds like this ... what I'm doing is strumming down with my up and hitting mostly with the fleshy down , up, down, up The soft sound and kind of even. All particularly like this one when I'm sing along. My singing is not terribly little quieter so I can overshadow with You're a strong singer, that might not be gonna use our fingers, sounds like this ... What I'm doing is strumming down with -- finger even though all my fingers are I'm only actually hitting with my first. Its the nail that gives that little the up I'm hitting with the inside the just go up and down like that, brush with Now my arms not moving up and down and if it does it's just very slightly. Really all the motions coming from my hand, opening as if I'm just opening gently my hand I find this a fairly easy song. It works great on the steel string is actually the one I used most often. It's the most versatile for me, it's thumb and fingers. It's louder than either of the thumb or the with the fingers. I'm actually using the On the way down I'm opening my hand like I am moving my elbow, small. Don't do big and it takes too long to get back. Nice, time twisting my hand like this so the brushing motion and that's what I'm digging into them. Now on the way up, it's my thumb and I'm hitting mostly with -- actually the I'm not digging in with my nail like it's down, flick, flick, flick. Part of the feeling could hand. My hands relaxed and then flicking It's like movement from my elbow up and down. And finally, technique number four. We're technique version two. Listen ... so I'm using my fingers like we did in hand and brushing the strings with my the flesh but I started off the strum with hitting either a single bass note or the be a single bass note. two, three, four - one, two, three , four - one, two, three ... It gives you the kind of a galloping taran taran tatan. That's my interpretation. Whatever it sounds like to you is fine. any of the other strums. Let me show you the techniques with a chord pattern. I'm I'm leaving the third finger on the G my fingers and then going to a D and one sounds like technique number two technique number three and technique number four Okay as promised, here's your bonus mute strum. It sounds like this --- this is a very common strum and a popular one. So what going down with my fingernails, I call it my thumb. But I'm adding a mute that mute palm at the same time I open my down, up, mute and then up after mute. Down, up, mute - down, up, mute. Notice I'm opening my making a kind of a clicking sound. So add some bass notes to our strum. We're of the strum but adding bass notes using so it's a little tricky. You gotta get note and then the fingers are strumming I'm using the nail on the outside and Now for a little Spanish sound. This one doing one finger at a time starting with out against the strings and they're little too slow but that's what it would enough separation to hear what here is to get your fingers tucked out. I'm kind of like brushing out on drop of water. And now for the final technique, this is common Spanish sounding strum using the Gypsy Kings in at least in the US and in what I'm doing. I'm going down with my the fingers and then as I come up with hand and muting the strings so this up and I'm muting the strings - down, up, down. If I were counting, it would be coming up with my fingers and four. So the together it sounds like this - one and two and pause and four and This strum is so popular that I made you very detailed how to play it. So if description down below so you can get to I hope you had fun with this. Hey give experience in the comments below. Just easy. If you seem like you're getting you're just not interested in it and didn't don't forget subscribe to my YouTube it. Thanks!