Vsauce! Kevin here. And you have a dilemma. one. There's door number one. And there's three envelopes here. Uhh great. Now we no Here's why. Di comes from the Greek for "twice" and two premises from which you have to choose. Adding a third envelope means this choice setup a very famous paradox. Wait. Let's with dilemma to find out exactly what a paradox Okay, Para comes from the latin "distinct opinion." "Paradox" translates literally as 'distinct Distinct from our opinion? That didn't really an unsolvable brain teaser? So how do three What is In 1961, Logician and philosopher Willard of paradoxes and I have them each hidden inside kind of paradox that you're most familiar waterfall from this video's intro. The other Well. Let's crack one of 'em open and Falsidical. This is why Achilles can never catch a tortoise. We'll use this bootleg Rambo to represent tortoise. If the tortoise gets a 100 meter by the time he gets to the 100-meter mark, It takes Achilles some more time to get to tortoise has moved forward even further. Achilles will always be catching up to the forward. The gap gets smaller, but the tortoise philosopher Zeno of Elea, who dreamed up this in the world can never overtake a tortoise the distance between them as the tortoise But that's ridiculous. We know it's not a tortoise. And I'm no Achilles. So how Zeno knew Achilles could catch up to the tortoise in real life, but he couldn't He thought there would be an infinite number Achilles had to reach... because he didn't add up to a finite value -- no one knew that a convergent series. 1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 adds up to 1. And at that Achilles finally reaches the tortoise. We knew that Achilles could catch up to the us to prove why. Which is why this paradox of years is falsidical. Described by Quine "A falsidical paradox packs a surprise, the underlying fallacy." Okay, that's one paradox envelope downand- we have: Veridical. For this, we need a game show. Okay I'm gonna replace the two envelopes about we put a million dollars in one of them a good enough prize as any. The third envelope of paradox. Which we'll get to later. Alright, I'll shuffle these up. So you don't envelopes. X, Y and Z. Pick the correct one After you make your selection, let's say inside one of the two remaining envelopes. It's the glob. Now there are only two envelopes left: the one that you chose and the remaining to switch your envelope. Should you do it? winning at this point are clearly 50/50, right? No. You should always switch. And here's why. envelope are 1 in 3. So you have a 33.33% repeating chance of being wrong. When the suddenly improve your odds to 50/50. The proof envelope, the thing revealed by the host will ruin the tension of the game show. So if your and the money is Y, then the host will reveal then the host reveals Y. If you luckily chose reveal either Z or Y. It doesn't matter. No 33% chance that you chose right the very first prize revealed, you now leap into the 66% the money. To put it another way, when you're asked given a dilemma: Do you want to keep your other two? It just so happens that you already the one revealed will never contain the money, has the money are twice as high as the first The 'Monty Hall Problem' blew up after switching doors in this same scenario from she told readers they should always switch people with PhDs wrote in to tell her that So the Monty Hall Paradox, like the Potato of one that is a Veridical Paradox -- one to be true. Quine said: "A veridical paradox packs a itself as we ponder the proof." Okay. There are paradoxes that seem absurd ones that seem false and actually are false it takes a major advance in math to prove all think of when we all think of paradoxes. Antinomy. The grandfather paradox where you go back a child but that means your father was never go back in time to kill your grandfather? solution to this but these types of paradoxes be true and they can't be false. As Quine I am lying. If I'm lying when I say that, then I must I be telling the truth if I'm lying? The which literally means 'against laws' and Quine said. Quine said this tape thing was so much. Quine said: &quot;An antinomy packs a surprise a repudiation of part of our conceptual heritage.&quot; Here's the thing. Antinomies are paradoxes are only paradoxes to those who don't know Every time we resolve a scenario that runs counter to our or someone every time we learn the how and why and share knowledge. Which makes all three types of Whether or not something is paradoxical to expectations. Today, modern mathematics has paradoxes are falsidical. But they were pure Quine himself said, "One man's antinomy or take a couple of thousand years.&quot; Who knows which antinomies of today will be with the paradox of the Faint Young Sun: our of years ago, our sun wasn't hot enough But our geological evidence shows an ancient when everything should've been frozen. How could the Earth have liquid water without until we fully comprehend the situation. Maybe perfect. Or maybe our knowledge of early Earth A paradox is a problem where the solution they're purposely designed for fun because stumble on a gap between what we know and actually true. When we solve an impossible Someone who knows the answer can see what by knowing too little or by asking the wrong come from people. By challenging us to find the flaw or fill define and push our intellectual boundaries. we know it or not. And as always - thanks for watching.