Hey everybody and welcome to Leia's Lair. In this episode we celebrate the 2-year anniversary an update to the quiz to determine which lightsaber If you are enjoying the videos please give so I can continue making them for you! Now before we begin, grab a pen and paper and scores. After each question, select one response that Star Wars universe. It will then reveal how many points each response At the end we will add up all the points from got. Alright, let's begin! Question 1. You are at the Mos Eisley Cantina minding a fight with you. Do you... A. Kill him using Force Choke. Do they even know who they are trying to mess B. Tell this Nerf Herder off, prepare to defend C. Beat him up as a warning, next time they'll D. Tell him that it's not worth his trouble, E. Try ignoring him, maybe he'll get bored F. Force push him away, then pay for your G. Use the Force to persuade him otherwise Question 2. While on a mission to the Outer-rim planet Do you... A. Ignite your lightsaber, you don't want B. Kill any of their family members, then C. Send his midichlorian count to the Jedi D. Bet on the child to win you money in a ship your problem He could be important for the future of the G. Take him as your apprentice, with or without Question 3. Your mother is captured by the Sand people Do you... A. Kill all the sand people, even the innocent B. Leave the Sand People alone, you don't C. Confront the Sand People, you need to find D. Try reasoning with the Sand People, you E. Threaten the Sand People, you will stop F. Rejoice her life and forgive the Sand People, G. Go after the Sand People's Warriors, alone. Question 4. You have a moment alone with your crush. Do you... A. Confess your love to them. The Order rules do not apply to you. B. Kill-I mean Kiss them. Yes. Kiss. C. Leave them be, it is forbidden to carry D. Do nothing, the ball is in their court. E. Flirt with them. There's no harm in that. F. Ask them to marry you in secret. Nothing can go wrong here. G. Friend zone them. Protecting your heart is more important. Question 5. You are out with your friends at a bar on you some Death Sticks. Do you... A. Say no and Force persuade him to rethink B. Rob him of his Death Sticks, time to expand C. Pretend to meet him in the alley for the there. D. Protect your wallet and walk away quickly. E. Say yes, love me some good ol' Death F. Take his death sticks and break them. Drugs are bad anyway. G. Ignore him and go on with your evening. Question 6. While in a battle with your enemy, you defeat them helpless for the moment. Do you... A. No hands? It wouldn't be right to leave them with B. Use Force Heal on them, even your enemies C. Call in the authorities, they can decide D. Torture them a bit before sending them E. Arrest them and send them away as they F. Leave them, you have more important things G. Behead them, no more worrying about that Question 7. You come across a Jedi Master and a Sith Lord Do you... A. Protect the Jedi Master if he looks like B. Meditate. The force will resolve this battle itself. C. Join in the battle against the Sith Lord. 2 vs 1 gives you the better advantage. D. Walk away, nothing to see here. E. Kill the Sith Lord, become the Chosen One F. Kill the Jedi Master and become the Sith G. Kill them both, your allegiance is to no Question 8. You find out your father is a Sith Lord. Do you... A. Try to destroy him, you want to be the B. Deny it. You are too light-sided to have a dark-sided C. Rejoice! You finally know who your father is... not D. Join him and rule the galaxy as father E. Accept it. There is nothing you can do to change it. F. Try to convince him to turn back to the G. Try to destroy him, the Sith must be stopped. Question 9. What is your favourite Force power: A. Force Choke C. Force Push E. Increased Athleticism G. Force Deflect Question 10. What is your role in the Galaxy: A. General C. Ruler of the Galaxy E. Trainer G. Lone Wolf Alright that was the last question, good job Now just add up all the points from the questions the Star Wars universe. Between 10 and 16: You got Green Historically, green-bladed lightsabers were Wielders of green-bladed sabers are generally confrontation as a last resort. Jedi that use green-bladed lightsabers tend Force powers connected to mental abilities, Between 17 and 21: You got Yellow Wielders of yellow-bladed lightsabers were Jedi who use yellow lightsabers are balanced They would be more likely to act as defenders battle, they would only engage if necessary. Between 22 and 26: You got Cyan Cyan-bladed lightsabers are a variation of have similar deep, physical connections with However, Jedi who use cyan lightsabers are These users are morally good, and use the Between 27 and 31: You got Blue Traditionally, wielders of blue-bladed lightsabers Jedi who use blue lightsabers are adept with Push, but prefer lightsaber combat. Generally, wielders of blue-bladed lightsabers the Force. Between 32 and 36: You got Indigo Indigo-bladed lightsabers are another variation Therefore, users often have similar deep, However, Jedi who use Indigo lightsabers are These users are morally good, and use the Between 37 and 43: You got White Wielders of white-bladed lightsabers tend and cannot typically be categorized as either White lightsaber users are adept Force users, rather than light or dark Force abilities. Users of white lightsabers tend to have a Between 44 and 48: You got Amethyst or Purple Wielders of purple-bladed lightsabers are Typically, purple-bladed saber wielders favor themselves to them, and can train in abilities Jedi Orders. Wielders of purple-bladed lightsabers use and distrustful. Between 49 and 53: You got Orange Wielders of orange-bladed lightsabers are while they gravitate toward the light side They have typically had a brush with the dark they're usually morally good, they tend Between 54 and 58: You got Magenta Wielders of magenta-bladed lightsabers are Users would be thought of as quite adventurous capabilities of using the dark side of the It is often thought that users of this color Between 59 and 63: You got Darksaber The Darksaber is a black-bladed saber that vicinity, rather than give off light. Wielders of the Darkblade are generally morally A Darkblade wielder relies on raw combat abilities when there is a chance they can spill some Between 64 and 70: You got Red Red lightsabers are used almost exclusively Force. Sith believe that conflict is the only way universe, so they never shy away from a fight with problems. Wielders of red-bladed lightsabers are guided powers almost exclusively. Interested in finding out more about who you'd Check out our other quizzes. Anyways, I hope you had fun completing the So which one did you get? Let me know down below in the comment section. And remember to like, share, and subscribe I hope to see you all again in Leia's Lair.