- I don't know how to spell embarrassing, one R, two R, order of And that would be ironic if I actually don't know how Sometimes, I do such a bad job that autocorrect doesn't but I know what to do with me. I'm gonna fix me. Just need to figure out how. So in this video, we are training like a spelling bee champion, competing against some of - Did I just get pranked? - And, finally, curing my embarrassment. Double R, double S, that can't be right. Thank you to our patrons and to Hostinger for I think my weird started in junior kindergarten. I was like five. We were doing like this spelling I was nailing it until we got I kept writing and erasing but it just never looked right. So I cheated, leaned over, and copied his answer. Got a perfect score, and I have ever cheated in Clearly, it still haunts me. I was pushed to the edge no matter how hard I tried, I just couldn't get the and it still happens to this day, even 20 years later when and it literally doesn't matter because I can use spell check. I get frustrated because I'm trying to get all of these words in and I can't because I and either I need to pause or I need to deal with in the corner of my eye. I just wanna be able to spell or at least know how to so that I don't just like and then autocorrect is like, and I know I shouldn't care. Like it literally doesn't matter, and I should just get over I wanna go through it. So let's learn how to spell. Luckily, there is an to training this very skill. - Spelling bee. - Spelling bee. - So in case you're like me, and you have only ever interacted with spelling bees through American media, I read the rule book to There are three main roles, a pronouncer who says the word and provides additional a speller, who if they advances to the next round, and a judge who catches mistakes or cheating. Now, the biggest competition's format has changed a little bit over but it was to account and skill inflation, the spelling bee has gotten too easy, which is wild because It's why I'm making this video, and after spending the last 12 hours digging through linguistics I can pretty confidently You see, a language can how it sounds and how For many languages, like Italian, words are usually spelled and sound the way they're spelled, but that isn't true for English, where a single sound can or a single spelling can This can make it more challenging compared to other languages, where things usually look how they sound. However, this ambiguity because it's the very thing that makes spelling bees a challenge. So spelling bee competitors the English language at its own game. This also means that if I just need to do well in a spelling bee. It'll prove that I am as So let's register for one. Spelling Bee Toronto, Well, that doesn't work. Spelling Bee for adults. 2022? I don't think they make Listen, I have spent like the last hour, hour and a half looking and (trills lips) like I see that only ever happen once. How are you annual? I guess most adults have other things they wanna do with their in a cost of living crisis, but not me. However, there is one, one consistent annual It's run by this guy named Justin who maintains one of the active websites I've ever seen. It takes place in Long Beach, California, which is a bit of a trip, but Just need to figure out how to get there. (phone rings) - Hello. I was wondering how much money we have. - Hmm, interesting. - What if Answer in Progress paid for me to fly to California to do a spelling bee? - You know what? We've been doing pretty well, and I'm gonna have to say no. Of course, we don't have money for that. - Listen, I could do okay in it. - [Taha] Spell pterodactyl. - T. (laughs) - Nice. I guess I need to figure What do I do now? I made a Wordle spelling bee. Listen, Hostinger, the best and website builder in the world keep saying yes to my stupid ideas. This is their fault. It was super simple. Just logged into Hostinger, and set up a website with a free domain, and I went with a business because it has these great features for a fraction of the usual cost, including cash management and approved- This is particularly important because my website has so many bugs. I'm just catching and patching them. My report a bug button has a bug. Now, you don't wanna Hostinger also offers CMS They've got templates, automatic which means that you instead of my discontent making this. I've posted my code on GitHub and maybe fix it, but, from some spelling bee study lists, used the free Merriam to get some definitions. I didn't include word origins though, because I feel like if they're ramping for time. Anyway, I pass the words to a text to speech API to get this. (AI chatters) Cacophonous, can you spell it? To make sure people can using text to speech or swipe to text, I created an onscreen keyboard. It sucks. It's slow and discriminatory Dunno how to fix it. Just type slow. To get daily updates, I found a seedable random number generator on Stack Overflow. Set the seed to the current and it generates a for anyone who sees the page. Finally, a win, woohoo! With the GitHub code, find the word list for any given day, but that's just studying, nerd. Once I had all of that core functionality, I styled a few fake typos, made the buttons look - [AI] Bicycle, meaning- - We have our spelling bee. We can now practice whenever we want using a randomly generated board list or do the daily challenge with anyone in the world, but the best part is that I don't need to figure out cash purging, malware scanning, or server security because Hostinger has me covered, and they could have you covered, too, if you go to and grab yourself a hosting plan today alongside a free domain, and 24/7 customer service. You also have an amazing New in case you wanted to secure your name as a domain for your portfolio or you could download and do my website so that we like those million Wordle I think it would be funny. Regardless, you could off hosting plans anytime if but anyway, with this very clear case of procrastination complete, I think it's time I learned how to spell. I decided to set a baseline by seeing how far I could get in practice. That can't be right, okay. It wasn't good. (Sabrina groans) So I pulled all of the words and just started memorizing. I tried tying it to a physical space like I did when I memorized but somehow, this was more boring. Now, you might be wondering between words like this and other non-spelling bee worthy words, and to be honest, nobody knows how spelling bees choose their word list, obviously, to avoid cheating, It's hard to spell, and it's even hard to say, aniseikonia? But there are some pretty common claims that the Scripps National Bee tends towards words with a trick, like ambiguous vowel sounds, That Y could, just as easily, be an I, but here's the issue. I think that I'm too stupid I'm still caught up by So this is gonna be a lot of work. I just spent the rest of the day studying. It felt like all I did was eat, sleep, and breathe words until It hasn't even been that staring at words for a Who would've thought? So I wanna see if I can just - [AI] Guarantor. Hagiographer. - (laughs) I memorized one! - [AI] Depilatory, meaning... - Let's go! Listen, I got eight right. That's pretty good. Depilatory, nonpareil, I think that I am ready to participate in an actual spelling bee. I just need some competition. (videos beep) that I get to be watched while I do this. That's very relaxing. - [AI] Gift, meaning a - All right, I don't So it's gift. - That one's easy. - Dream. are gonna make a Minecraft joke? - Famous Minecraft YouTuber. - The canceled YouTuber. - Speedone dude on YouTube, D-R-E-A-M. - I don't wanna say that I'm because I know how this goes. - [AI] Purse, meaning a - Purse. - I'm so good at spelling. - All right, going around town. - I know this one. - Transmissibility. Meaning capable of being transmitted as in transmissible diseases. (Taha groans) - Nah, nah. - I'm down to transmissibility? (people laugh) - We just leveled up like four levels. What the heck? - There we go. That's the difficulty I'm expecting. - Trans miss... - Oh, this is where like the - I don't know if it's a - The trick is you have to trans, miss, and ability. - Okay, ability is - Or trans miss ability. - But is it two S's? I think it's two. - It's the double leather, right? - I'm just gonna do that. No, no! - Oh. - I'm done? - Ah. - How's this spelled? Oh, my God, yeah. - Oh, no, miss... Oh, no, it's an I. - I was totally worrying about - Sabrina Cruz, town and We went from one syllable to six. - [Sabrina] Transmissibility, there we go. - [AI] Transmissibility. (indistinct) - [Melissa] I'm just gonna go with my gut. (AI talks indistinctly) I don't know if there's - Transmissibility, let's go for gold, oh! - Transmissibility. - Transmission has two S's. Here goes nothing, oh. - I'm just gonna do it, okay. - [AI] Dew, moisture that of cool bodies at night. - Oh, the plant's dew, D-E-W. - Got it. meaning to destroy - Guys, I think I'm killing it. - [AI] Punting, canal, amalgam. - I don't know if there's an E or not. I think there's an E, I don't know. - Acutely. - Contingent. - Oh, oh, no, typo. - Contingent. - Contingent, okay, but it No, I was right, I'm so sad. - [AI] Cruel. - Can you imagine if I - Cruel. meaning one who's normally meatless diets. - (beep) Flexitarian? - That's not a word. - See, the struggle here is that there's no etymology for us to go off. It's kind of one of those neologisms that's just like Time Magazine made it up one day, and - Flexitarian. Yes! - Ensemble. - Licensure, meaning. - [AI] The granting of licenses, especially to practice a profession. - Olivia Rodrigo's driver's It's licensure. Boom. Yeah? No! - Yes. - I'm a genius. My question is whether it's E-R or O-R. All right. Yes, yes! meaning a dust-laden wind of Africa in some seasons. - Sorry, a dust-laden wind on the Atlantic coast in some seasons. - [Phil] This is a wild guess. This might be it. (suspenseful static) I've got two problems. One of 'em is Harmattan. Harmattan? Who needs to know Harmattan? Clearly, neither Phil or I, no! We ended in a tie, which for a YouTube video. So I've challenged Phil to a tiebreaker in exactly one week, and in that time, I'm hoping to solve problem It's just emblematic of the and it's the fact that that I don't already I don't know what to do. Like I'll listen closely and try and spell it out English is orthographically inconsistent. In other words, whack, and I got it wrong. So in the week that I I either need to memorize way more words or figure out if there's a better way. So I decided to reach out to champions, and coaches, which I wanted to figure out Unfortunately, nobody So I did the next best thing. I watched some YouTube videos (door clacks) Some of these are smaller All in all, this cost me $100. I'm really starting to remember why I illegally downloaded I hope these are worth it, After only a few days and nowhere near through all of the books, I realized that I had it all wrong. Not only did I make a mistake in how I approach spelling bees, but, also, maybe, just maybe, (book slams) I have spent the last three weeks really coming to resent even more than I already did from how it made it difficult because I needed to see if my but I couldn't check the answer because I couldn't spell the answer to realizing just how convoluted some of these spellings were while I was memorizing them to Harmattan. I have seen this language stump some of the smartest people I know. - Your boy's got it. Your boy's got it, oh. - When I was five years old and I was doing that spelling test, I thought that if you spelled then I learned more words, and then I realized that I'm not stupid. English is stupid, but, on a quest to prove how stupid English is, I changed my mind, that spelling bee competitors train. They know that there in the Merriam-Webster and they know that it is Instead, they hack the core You remember that gap we talked between English Well, champions, they don't just know about the gap or accept it. They figure out why it exists, and they do that by Because here's how English We should sell this as a shirt. So things start off in the fifth century when a bunch of Western Germanic Why Brexit? And they take the land. Does it count as turning tables if this is before British imperialism? One of the bigger tribes then named the territory that they have, Eng la land, and their language Englisc, look familiar? Not really, because the little writing that did exist was written in runes, you know, from that one Tom Scott video. - Herald of Bluetooth. - I don't know if I'm Anyway, Celtics scribe saw &quot;This is kind of whack. Can we use normal letters?&quot; And by normal letters, I mean the Catholic So they began representing English, a Germanic language, That's really cool, right? Except for the fact sound really different from Latin ones. Let me show you. Google Translate, here's how you say a loaf of bread in Italian. (AI talks in Italian) Now, here it is in German. (AI talks in German) This kind of meant that the Latin alphabet couldn't really handle all of the sounds that the English language could make. However, we kind of just mix which is great, until the French. They rolled up in the 11th &quot;Actually, England is French now.&quot; The accent wouldn't have Wouldn't sound like that now. I'm gonna stop doing accents. So French scribes started to English words while also keeping the original French spelling of words that snuck This had a pretty dramatic turning old English to middle English, and, honestly, it was pretty great. We had roughly consistent and the main variance was Imagine it like this. We have Waluigi. If we wanted to write we would probably go What a charming rascal, what an accurate transcription. However, let's imagine that Waluigi was born without a mustache. Just never had one, never will. I believe this would and, more importantly, the way he laughed. Unnatural. Now, certain pronunciations and accents did begin to dominate with the invention of the printing press, which brought the written language to more people than ever before. This meant that written in a way that words were spelled the way that they were pronounced, and then some (beep) happened. Just as things were getting good, people in the south of England were like, &quot;I don't think we're special enough.&quot; I need to stop the accents. They just started changing It took a while for the dust to settle, but the changes were so the great vowel shift, and middle English stopped being middle English and became modern English instead. Sheep became sheep, knight became knight, and, honestly, wasn't that weird? Languages change and evolve. However, the problem is locked in the old pronunciations, and we just keep getting because pronunciations change faster than we could ever reasonably Plus the English probably didn't help when they terrorized the planet and spread English to more places than we could ever hope to regulate. This was the worst part of colonialism, but, yeah, other languages It's how German just added You just do that. The most English has for regulation is pedantic Reddit that the word of 2023 was rizz, (disappointing music) I don't think we're doing a very good job. Why is that a butt hole? But here's the thing, after I'm starting to think that control isn't the point of written English. I started this video is frustrating, right? It's just full of all of these rules that I am way too stupid to remember, like I before E, except after C, except if you're one of those English, however, all of English isn't trying to punish you. It isn't a rule book. It's a record, one that's used to remember not only what was said, but who said it and where and when and how. So it shouldn't be embarrassing, double R, double S, to spell a word wrong. It should be exciting is this time capsule buried underneath those and, now, we're gonna dig it up. I realized that my website was focusing on all of the worst parts leaving words without and punishing you for So I made more calls to and pulled the etymologies of each word, then I routed each etymology through GPT-4 to get them into more reasonable lengths. This made it a little bit more affordable to use a better text to because the old one I of not saying all of the words. - [AI] Dianthus meaning. Dianthus meaning. Dianthus- so we've got all new prompts with historical context now like... - [AI] Aioli, a noun meaning a mayonnaise flavored with garlic and, The word originates from combining ai for garlic and oli for oil. - Neat, but, now, I of the competition so that it's rather than just on punishment. You get one thing wrong, and you're out. I don't want that anymore. This time, I made it more except with a fixed number of words. You still get the etymologies, if you get something wrong. You kind of get to explore Okay, so it took me about two-ish days to put all of this together, not too bad, except for the fact that and today is the day that I I am severely under-prepared. I guess I've just spent appreciating the history instead of learning it. Oh, man, this is gonna go so badly. Wish me luck. - Whoo, all right, let's do it. I did not have my coffee before this. I was gonna do this later in the day, but I literally couldn't wait. All right, let's go. - [AI] Mythos, a noun meaning myth. The word is derived from Greek mythos- - All right. - Mythos, M-Y-T-H-O-S. Lock it in. 'cause I have no idea - [AI] Colocate, a verb meaning to locate. - Okay. - Sure. - Etagere. - Etagere. - 'Cause I know it's (speaks French), like the stages. - Otiose, outios? That looks Latin. - [AI] Rugose, derived - We'll just roll with how it sounds. - Regous. - That's easy. - I've heard the word palladium. I'm gonna do a single L 'cause - Asparagus, a noun- - What? of extinct cephalopods. - Keplerian.. - Okay, so Kepler, so - Should be spelled like Kepler lerian. - [AI] Piccata, a noun meaning thin- - Chicken piccata? So if it comes from the Italian, let's imagine P-E-C-C-A-R-E. - Pinocchio's got two Cs. It's Italian, piccata. - [AI] Dysphasia. - It's like aphasia with a dis. - I feel confident about this one. - [AI] Coltan, scientific - Okay, - It's just like mashing It's just coltan. - Well, they kind of gave it to us there. - [AI] Ikebana, a noun meaning the Japanese art of flower arrangement. - Oh. - Let's just try this, man. I'm realizing now that like I'm the villain in this scenario. - Anecdote, a noun meaning- - A short narrative of a- - Polydactyly. Ernest Hemingway, loved - Oh, almost had a typo. - Feel good about that. Dolcinaea - [AI] From Spanish specifically- - I've listened to &quot;Man of La Mancha&quot;. - [AI] Cioppino, derived of Ligurian dialect. - Modification of Ligurian - Okay, because it's Italian, we're doing some double consonants, tsiopino or tsioppino. - I have no idea. - Malachite. - [AI] A noun meaning a green mineral. - Easy. - [AI] A noun meaning a... Bindi, a noun meaning a - All right, let's do it. - Ah. (stifles laughter) (program dings) - Oh, you just did it? - Oh, shoot. to tell me your score, - I got 19. - Dammit. I got 13 'cause I - Really, I was so mad at... Would you, would you... - I misspelled the word asparagus, man. (Phil laughs) and I just stopped the clock, and I was like, asparagus, easy. - I was yelling so loud when I met... I saw connubial, and I was like, &quot;Oh, my gosh, what an idiot.&quot; - Imagine this is a little crown. Well, actually, we'll Photoshop, a little crown lowering on - Ding! (laughs) - You are now Answer in - What an honor. I was so nervous. That was a trip. This has been a crazy day. All right, bye. - You know, even though I lost, I'm not that mad about it, and it's not because Phil deserved to win, but he really did. He called me out on the lack before I even knew that but it actually has because this video was never It was about me and my journey and personal relationship It sounds so stupid, but now of this stupid video, I'm that's what this has always been about. When I used to look at I get so mad, but, now, when I see them, I look at how they're actually spelled and appreciate how freaking weird it is. Why isn't there a letter there? C-N, who let that happen? Probably some Roman weirdo, and I've just really come to appreciate all of the history and culture and people who made these words the way That was embarrassing, double R, double S.