In the mid-19th century, in the northeastern pastime that people could not get enough of. Picnics. While picnics had been a French pastime for indulge in the practice until the early 1800s, upper class. By the mid-19th century, though, people of picture-esque location, and sitting on a blanket Maybe somebody would bring a guitar and play Maybe some couples would sneak off for some Maybe some guy in a boat would row by to watch. Everybody loves a picnic. And for those living near Pittsburg, Pennsylvania Kenny's Grove, a beautiful section of a Located southeast of Pittsburgh in the Mifflin location with a beautiful view of the Monongahela The area would become so popular in the latter Monongahela Street Railways Company sought Mifflin street car line. The company leased land from the Kenny family This type of trolley park was common throughout created to increase railway profits, especially As with many trolley parks, Kennywood Park In 1898, just a year after leasing the land, building restaurant, and Kennywood's first The following year, a bandstand was constructed, built another new ride, named The Old Mill. The Old Mill was not a unique ride to Kennywood, park ride. Old Mills are slow-moving boat rides, with The water in many of these rides are moved, Old Mills were best known for their significant darkness. This led many couples to take advantage of leading to the Old Mill getting its more recognizable These seemed to sprout up all over the place In World's Fairs, state fairs, trolley parks, became a marketing ploy, with more and more or sexual nature. The Old Mill at Kennywood was one of the first branded specifically as a Tunnel of Love, same. Kennywood's Old Mill would receive several of operation. It was first themed to the Fairyland Floats, the Panama Canal, which at the time, was an Canal had just debuted. After the Panama Canal theme, the Old Mill Floats again, before returning to its classic In 1922, the ride underwent a refurbishment a New England mill and had its ride system Arguably, the biggest change to the Old Mill caught on fire and burned to the ground, being new theming with "comic supplement characters," Kids and Jiggs &amp; Maggie. In 1936, The Old Mill was redecorated again Another major refurbishment to the ride occurred During this season, The Old Mill received The refurbishment featured seven well-known including Blondie, Popeye, The Long Ranger, Henry. In 1957, the Old Mill was themed to A Trip The comic characters were replaced with scenes in Asia, an elephant in Africa, and even Santa The loading area was also given an animatronic guests in the queue, which as apparently auctioned this video. Although it sold for $2,300 which is more band. For the 1974 season, the Old Mill would receive date, becoming Hardheaded Harold's Horrendously This retheme sent riders through an Old West of skeletons placed throughout the ride. Some of these figures were animated, and sound This is the first version of the attraction the creative placement of the show scenes The Old Mill's middle section consists of In the center of these, outdoor show scenes being removed and replaced with fencing so There are also four show buildings where dark Despite the creative theming of Hardheaded the Old Mill continued to be known for one Kennywood's Director of Community and Government matter what the theme was. Anyone who rode that ride in the sixties, ride to look at the scenes." "It's a place for cuddling and to sort You're a little bit nervous about getting because you might end up getting slapped but snuggle." In 1984, the Pittsburgh Post Gazette did a When interviewed, fifteen-year-old Missy Stash, goes at it. You should see. Some of the boats come out and there's nobody 61-year-old Ellen Ammon, recalling her Old the boys would bring string onto the ride. In the dark portions, they would brush the them that there were spiders and watersnakes close through their terror. Another common occurrence was seeing couples attraction. An uptick in romantic activity in the Old from the park. Kennywood employees would be stationed at with a flashlight and a disapproving stare. They would rarely intervene if the activity more than that, the young couples would be At one point in the 1960s, Kennywood employees if they saw the naked buttocks of any riders This was very effective, and almost always redress themselves for the remainder of the This solution was quite popular in Old Mills, proves. Kennywood would later install cameras and to stop their behavior without having to assault Hardheaded Harold's Horrendously Humorous alliterative name in 1992, reverting back theming. As the Old Mill entered the 2000s, officially was weighing the pros and cons of the ride. Due to its age and design, the attraction up a significant amount of land at the park. Kennywood is well known for constantly building to push locals to come back each season, so the Old Mill and replace it with something However, the management at Kennywood also and few, if any, wanted to see the park's So 100 years after its opening and 30 years of the Old Mill was on everyone's minds. Kennywood wanted to find a way to keep the appeal to modern audiences, and the answer cat, named Garfield. Garfield is a comic strip written by cartoonist The eponymous orange tabby cat needs no introduction. The general public is well aware of his love laziness. Garfield, along with his dorky owner Jon, recurring characters, quickly found their across the country. By 1982, the strip was appearing in over 1000 Over the next two decades as the comic and would spawn an unprecedented amount of merchandise tv specials, and much more. Despite Garfield being a household name and to lava lamps, he was noticeably absent in It seemed that every major park chain had Disney had Mickey Mouse and Friends, Universal gang, and Six Flags had the Looney Tunes. Garfield's omission from the medium was In 1988, when asked if Garfield would enter "I wouldn't touch it. Never." And that's the history of Garfield and theme Wait, eight years later he changed his mind. Wonder why? In 1996, plans were announced for a 535 acre state of Indiana, near Indianapolis in Hendricks The project was named the Heartland Festival the park would be Garfield's Universe, a This would include a character carousel, Arbuckle's Extreme Adventure, an Odie tongue slide, Erma's would serve, of course, lasagna. The park was planned to open in 1997, and company and Davis's company, Paws Inc. The cost of the project was estimated to be By all accounts, Davis was significantly involved as to have a special Garfield theme park planning aspects of the project such as the garbage On top of the design contractors, Davis reached on the project during its early stages. This was when Davis first reached out to the five small parks in and around Pennsylvania, A year after the announcement, the opening Despite significant utilities and groundwork find the remainder of its funding. The following year the park rebranded to Garfield's opting to construct and debut the Garfield 1999. By this point, a significant number of Hendricks forming a group called Citizens Opposing Amusement The theme park was pushed back another year In December of 1999, Kennywood officials attended Parks and Attractions Convention and Trade It is here that they learned that Garfield It seemed that while Garfield's Adventure looking to integrate the character elsewhere, was reportedly one of his top choices, specifically Compounce in Connecticut. Kim Campbell, a spokesperson for Paws Inc., of both parks, the family-friendly atmosphere, Jim said the parks were a perfect fit for like." You didn't think that picnic stuff was going An agreement was made between Kennywood and have Garfield and Odie become the mascots This is, despite the fact, that Kennywood Kennywood had Kenny the Kangaroo, and Lake Both parks assured fans that Garfield and and would not be replacing them. This integration in the northeastern parks Adventure America in Indiana. However, it was revealed that the developers rights to the character within a 150-mile never financially invested in the park. The developers assured the public and their Kennywood and Lake Compounce would not detract America, but at this point, many were convinced Meanwhile at the Kennywood Parks, Garfield with guests, selling merchandise, and appearing The integration was successful enough that further cementing Garfield's presence in Kennywood's Kiddieland would receive more ride opened at Kennywood, named Garfield's to look like a block of cheese, covered in As Garfield continued to increase his presence canceled. The developer had been sued by one of its after this, it was revealed that the park The park was soon foreclosed on and the development By 2003, the project was dead and the county would have sat. Despite the failure of the park, Davis was in theme parks, and since he and his company Kennywood, it only made sense to go all-in It was time for Garfield to get his own dark It was at this point that the history of the Davis and Paws Inc. wanted a Garfield dark Old Mill. The timing was perfect, and even better, Kennywood Larry Kirchner, the owner of the Haunted House installed an attraction at Kennywood, telling opportunity to design a dark ride, Kirchner Kirchner recalled wanting to design a dark free. When the Garfield/Old Mill retheme was discussed, accepted the job. Kirchner's plans for the attraction included in haunted houses would lead him to pitch not dissimilar to the Old Mill's Hardheaded However, Kirchner's plans were too ambitious. He recalled, "We wanted to make it look a Frankenstein food character, and then we I wanted to do other CGI effects so it wasn't with them." Obviously, big effects like this were difficult but the team ran into another issue entirely. Kennywood officials explained to Kirchner make it too great because too many people It has a pretty limited capacity since it's Pete McAneny, the General Manager of Kennywood we had to do is not make it too spectacular So with a small budget and an explicit directive team marched forward. Kirchner imagined guests riding through the a Garfield book. The premise for the ride was that Garfield team an excuse to incorporate horror elements One point of contention in the ride's history Inc. While Davis certainly wanted the ride to be as to how involved he was in the creative McAneny recalled that Davis wrote the script Kirchner recalled, "We did 20 or 30 drawings. He didn't do anything. I never talked to Jim Davis. The biggest thing was he, or someone, gave figure out which story we wanted to tell." Despite the obstacles, Kirchner and Halloween retheme to the Old Mill, resulting in the history. How this version would be received by the On May 1, 2004, Kennywood opened for the season Nightmare. The retheme to the Old Mill was dedicated Odie took their first ride. Kenny the Kangaroo was also in attendance, the other characters. &lt;Sad music&gt; Guests entered the attraction under the large with the familiar Old Mill show building intact, In the window of the mill house, a frightened opened and closed. While waiting in line, riders viewed tv screens featured clips of Garfield. As guests entered the loading area, they were, the attraction. After riders loaded into their boat, they revealing that the ride was covered in cameras. Reportedly, this was intentionally put in activity. As guests climbed a short lift hill, they "This is the most frightening adventure Unless you have cheese. I like cheese. So give me some cheese and I'll... Uhh, hi there. Enjoy your ride. After a right turn, guests went down a passageway products, which was unsurprisingly Kennywood's This was also the first of many blacklight fluorescent material, which was definitely refurbishment and was not the result of 103 This is also where the 3D glasses came into Rather than being a stereoscopic 3D effect depth, Garfield's nightmare used ChromaDepth, film. This results in certain colors popping into the background. The warm colors, red, orange, and yellow, and violet are pushed back. The effect works best with bright primary gave the ride a distinct color scheme. The ChromaDepth effect is commonly used in are industry leaders in the style. A benefit of the style is that, unlike stereoscopic and would not see the ghosting effect seen without glasses. A nice, possible coincidence was that Garfield always pop to the foreground, while the backgrounds painted with green or blue colors. If you'd like to try this out for yourself, and watch a POV of the ride with the brightness It's just like the real thing. After the product placement tunnel, guests depicts Garfield falling asleep after a big The strips appearing in the ride were previously for the attraction. After this, guests enter the first scene, come alive, with the door swinging open and Garfield's voice plays overhead, repeating like." Another strip depicted Garfield depressed In the next scene, the ice cream truck finally by ice cream cones, is chasing after Garfield. Another strip depicted Garfield scaring the The next scene shows the mailman, smiling The next strip features another running gag spiders. Predictably, the next scene is of a large This pattern continues with another running followed by a scene of a fish eating Garfield. The most terrifying part of the ride thus While not explicitly referenced in the ride, Garfield using Jon's chair as a scratching not getting direct revenge on Garfield, is The next scene shows Garfield's vet Liz up by a rope, held by an Igor-type character. The needle would blow a puff of air onto riders. Another strip depicts Garfield attacking the the pizza delivery man and evil pizza boxes The next strip and scene is a break from form. The strip depicts Garfield mentioning he's Jon saying nothing. The next scene is one of the most difficult On the right side of the boat, the appliances fashion, while boxes of lasagna have formed On the left side of the boat, a terrified Jon and a monstrous Odie, who appears to have his body like a coat. There is also a zombie hot dog monster strapped The final strip and scene shows Jon asking to do. In comic strip, Garfield will eat just about Nightmare, the mice still want revenge on As the ride nears its end, the characters are now lined up, smiling as the boat passes. Garfield's voice instructs guests that a "Oh yeah. And a photo opportunity coming up. Doesn't get any better than that." The mouse from the beginning of the ride instructs placed so that guests may pose for the picture. As guests reach the end of the ride, a final Garfield says "what a great ride! It was kinda scary, but it's over now," behind. This appears to be the only Garfield strip Garfield's Nightmare was drastically different used to, and any significant change would However, Garfield's Nightmare almost immediately with many citing its cheap effects, product It was too scary for many children, and too For longtime Kennywood fans, it felt like all fairness, they probably just weren't Jiggs &amp; Maggie, the Garfield, and Odie of As far as a Garfield ride goes, it successfully scenarios from the comics, and the original the ride looked like it was pulled straight Despite the low budget, the attraction featured But who cares what Kennywood regulars, Garfield The real demographic that matters is the one Young couples. In a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette report before assured fans that "We haven't messed with the gazette took to mean that "Couples will the way to, ahem, exchange pleasantries." This persistent mentioning in official media sent me down a rabbit hole that I could not Full disclosure for anyone that is not aware, been on or will ever go one has been the setting Whether it's at your local amusement park within arms reach of another person, someone I talk about amusement park rides all the never notable. It's just a given. However, in all of my research, I have never journalists, have reported, consistently, the Old Mill at Kennywood. I found a newspaper article from 1934 talking and the 1984 article in which couples were pushed me over the edge. Not what I meant. After hearing mention that sometimes boats I knew that I had to go deeper. Dang it. Look if you're just interested in the physical care about the culture attached to the Old For those remaining... There was a significant amount of documentation lovers on the ride, but little was known on of the feats that they were boasting about. Were these legends true, or were they fiction? In the name of research, I tweeted the following, out or made love in the Old Mill dark ride If so, please email your story to imadeloveintheoldmill@defunctland.com" didn't want details of the activity I wanted and either no one saw this reply or they didn't and most of them contained graphic detailing To borrow a bit of Pittsburgh-ease, yinz are Of the 56 messages I received, only three contained details far too specific to be made that I verified were accurate. I'm not going to share any of these and a few of the more interesting submissions Feel free to pause and read at your own pace. In the end, the email submissions did provide First, smart couples would come in packs, best they could from other riders, and then to slow their motion, thus extending the ride Second, there are at least two people who this ride, maybe it's you. Third, most surprising, the Garfield overlay Old Mill as the same tunnel of love previous In fact, the majority of my emails were about tunnels of Garfield's Nightmare. Some people noted that the Garfield theming admitted that they believe it added to it, ironically, maybe not. As one emailer so eloquently put it, "Garfield Perhaps the greatest sin though was the lack Nightmare experienced. Within just a few years, the screens in the in the ride stopped working. The audio cues were off or missing, and the wouldn't play. The neon paint started to fade, diminishing The 3D glasses themselves would often not eventually phased out altogether, although When guests were given 3D glasses, the often of throwing them onto the ride, trying to objects. Oddly, the upkeep of the ride was so poor in the blown up comic strips were either faded blackened. All of this somewhat added to the uneasy nature attraction's lack of upkeep. Other than this, the ride lived a quaint, updates. Year after year, Kennywood would open for open with it. In 2007, a Nintendo DS platformer named "Garfield's title, the game is in no way connected to In 2011, the Garfield comic strip featured park named Kittywood, which appeared to be After 2008, Garfield and Odie were phased in advertisements. Kenny the Kangaroo reclaimed his throne in Does he look familiar? No? It's the sign. It's the Kennywood sign. You can meet the sign! Kennywood would eventually integrate Thomas into attractions at the park, and the new than Garfield ever did. Despite Garfield and Odie no longer appearing to operate, year after year, with no end in This was until 2019, when news broke that the rights to Garfield would be utilized by This also put Viacom in charge of the character's Viacom immediately began tightening the brand's if they wished to continue to operate Garfield's significantly. This pressured Kennywood into removing the Mill, and no one at the park put up much of Garfield's Nightmare had operated for 16 This is not to say that the attraction had an entire generation of Kennywood visitors only version of the Old Mill. In March of 2020, Kennywood's YouTube account Mill at Kennywood. The video started as a Ken Burns-style theme YouTube channels that I'm completely blanking However, halfway through the video, it was of the Old Mill, but it was also an announcement. "We're going to be bringing back The Old restoring the ride to the retro-western theme." The news was celebrated by fans who cheered, CityPaper's headline read "I hope they During the offseason, the ride was gutted Unfortunately, all of the props from Garfield's brand were destroyed at the demand of Viacom, ending up on the black market. To ensure compliance, Kennywood had to film props. The opening of the ride would be delayed due for guests in July of 2020 when Kennywood met with positive reviews. The familiar old west ghost town theme was Despite the massive overhaul, the new theming Nightmare. The new Old Mill also has multiple tributes to previous Old Mill iterations. For instance, the appearance of a character Horrendously Humorous Haunted Hideaway. The scenes also featured multiple orange tabby in a graveyard read G. Nightmare, I hope there The Old Mill at Kennywood is the world's this is not by coincidence. Kennywood is a historic park whose employees While Garfield's Nightmare was not necessarily important part in extending the life of this While some might remember Garfield's Nightmare Old Mill retheme, most Kennywood guests will While most of the emails I received detailed that took place on the Old Mill, my takeaway the ground for the good of the general public. In fact, quite the opposite. The romantic activities that happened within crass as they could be, reminded me of something Theme and amusement parks are special environments, Whether that's thrill, imagination, or even Hearing people of many different generations surprisingly moving. To hear stories of young angst, the nerves a crush on, the scariness of having your first loves. For one rider who grew up in a small town, first place he felt safe kissing his boyfriend. For a married couple, a trip on the Old Mill high school again. When the messages weren't overtly erotic, of why I love talking about these parks. They are memorable and exciting places where as it is who you are riding with. And sometimes the most memorable experience a boat through a dark tunnel, and sometimes front of a neon Garfield