- [Narrator] These were the CEOs of today's five biggest This is that group in 2011, in 2016, and in 2021. You'll notice one face remained the same. This man, JPMorgan Chase CEO, Jamie Dimon - He is the bank, the - [Narrator] Over his the go-to voice for banks. - We need healthy, big banks. We have the best banking - [Narrator] Here's how Dimon's has made him the most powerful and how he's used that position to steer the entire banking world. Dimon built his reputation over a career that stretches back decades. - He has shaped how the what is safe and what isn't safe. You can look around and and former executives run a and they all were schooled at how to run a bank by Jamie Dimon. - He's not a reckless banker. I think he understands you need but you also need to understand the risk and manage the risk. - [Narrator] The center of is a concept he calls the - I always thought you should in this business and maybe some of yours because bad things happen. - [Narrator] The idea is to build up a cushion of assets and capital to protect consumer's deposits if the bank gets hit by - And most banks will build the moat and build up their walls But what Jamie Dimon says is, okay, but those walls might so on top of that wall that we're gonna add a higher wall and then we're gonna and then we're gonna add all the time making sure all the way down. - Is it fair to say that of a half a trillion dollars - Not unless this earth is hit by a moon. - Okay. - He doesn't care about He doesn't care about next year's results. He cares about making Partly he gets to say a ton of money on everything he does, but it's worked. - [Narrator] That strategy emerge from the 2008 financial And even in a position - We were called upon to take actions to help stabilize the system. - [Narrator] In the aftermath, to acquire two failing from the government, Bear - So he makes these smart acquisitions that were beneficial to him and beneficial to the government. - [Narrator] At the time, Sheila Bair was the head of the FDIC. She orchestrated bids the largest bank to fail in US history. - We were having a hard a lot of banks just didn't wanna touch it. So he did not withstand the fact we were running a competitive process, he still came in a bid, thank goodness. And as I suspected he would, he did win the bid by - [Narrator] Even with debts incurred and lawsuits following the moves helped Chase grow to be the largest bank - He's gonna look at something and say, that's gonna and more customers. And we're getting it the government's supposed This is a risk that is worth taking. - Yowamu put us into California where we really were in Florida we had very small presence. Washington State - JPMorgan grew even larger in May after it bought First Republic Bank, the second largest bank But this also raised concern that the bank was too big to fail. Meaning that if it were to collapse it would have a devastating - Are you too big to fail? - I don't know what - JPMorgan Chase does benefit from the perception of I know they don't like to hear that. They think they're very well run and they are a great bank, but I'm sorry, they get a benefit. Nobody thinks even if JPMorgan nobody thinks it would ever be closed. - [Narrator] But Dimon has In 2012, the bank lost after an employee made - This transaction that you said morphed what did it morph into? Russian roulette. - It morphed into that was just too risky for our company. - He does impose accountability. In the context of risk, that could be one of your is to make sure, you go out and take some understand the risk, manage the risk, stay within our risk you know, if you take stupid risk, you're gonna be accountable. - I said, don't put me on Companies make mistakes - [Narrator] While has helped the bank grow even it's also expanded his - If you're the treasury secretary and there's something broken Jamie Dimon is your first call. - [Narrator] Treasury called Dimon to kickstart First republic's initial rescue effort. - It bought the bank time. It did seem to help the crisis and really other CEOs and it was Jamie. - [Narrator] And over the years, Dimon has become the go-to - Members of the committee, I appreciate the opportunity the role of America's largest banks as a force for good for and the global economy. - When they all go to testify pretty much every year the other CEOs are like, let's let Jamie answer the questions, we'll let him be the guy out front. And part of that's because and he's less worried about losing his job or getting regulators mad at him. - I think it will put that when a crisis hits, they will virtually have to stop lending because putting up those at precisely the wrong time. So I do think this becomes an issue for you all to reconsider. - [Narrator] And Dimon in public statements too. - Bitcoin itself is a hyped up fraud. - [Dimon] It's almost an embarrassment being an American citizen and listening to the stupid shit we have to deal with in this country. - You ask me, I'll tell you my opinion, that's not a JPMorgan opinion - He is the same person Like he'll curse, he'll he'll dismiss other - [Narrator] A spokesperson and Jamie Dimon declined After nearly two decades there have been questions when he decides to move on. - He truly has no hobbies Even his friends are like other than run the bank. - [Narrator] But Dimon doesn't - [Dimon] I'm not gonna play golf. I love my country, I love my I'm gonna do something, I know that. But my intensity is the same. - A normal person might say but Jamie Dimon is not