A Sunburned Man Found A Lump On His Arm. This KC is a 45 year old man, presenting to the His wife, Jennifer, tells the admitting nurse weakness on the left side of his body over You see, KC was a farmer in rural middle America. 3 months from working out in the fields. Didn't because he'd been ok his whole life. Several months ago, a sunburned KC found an borders growing rapidly on the skin of his to morph into something new, grow larger and might be cancer. A doctors visit was unnecessary, fixing things on his own. Whether it was parts a self-sufficient life. He always had the of his skin cancer, this is something he could Immediately after removing his own skin tumor, more to be done here. Wrap it up with a cloth Over the next few months KC felt great, but right armpit underneath the skin. It was warm sensation coming from it. Every morning he'd feel his heart beat through it. His wife suggested he see a physician, but now. He said he did it once, and if he has he'll do it again. Except, a PET scan revealed Hyper meaning high. Metabolic referring to the structures in your body where white blood drain. These kinds of lymph nodes indicate armpit. About a month ago, Jennifer started to notice It appeared to look like a limp that when He actually couldn't see himself deteriorating. side and began developing headaches that were from inside his skull against his eyes..His personality. A normally patient and down to at everything until one day while working a 15 minute seizure. An MRI finds multiple lesions developing in no indication of infection, cerebral bleeding and because these tumors don't have the that KC doesn't have brain cancer, but that elsewhere in his body and they've spread to Cells from his axillary mass lymph nodes were it was widespread cancer growth. Looking at were positive for a type of skin cancer based color and pigmentation, something called melanin. the skin of his right arm, it appears that growing en masse in his lymph nodes, and in We can conclude here that KC has metastatic meaning tumor, or irregular mass, describing meaning that even though he originally had its stationary site of origin, and has started If in a healthy person you wouldn't normally how is it possible that KC's skin cancer of basic cellular biology to be known here. Cancer is a genetic disease at it's core, more. The genes in our body code for proteins, which for our cells to do things. Proteins are made together, dictated by our genetic sequence. or from environmental damage like from radiation are nonsense, happen less than 0.01% of the these mutations create proteins that signal to stop growing. To keep reproducing with own blood supply. And to survive in the circulation Cancer is more than just a genetic disease, cellular survival, at the expense of its host. A genetic test is done on his lymph node cancer on chromosome 7, on the gene named BRAF, at an A, there was a T, meaning for the protein 600 changed, creating something called the uses RAF, which feeds into a pathway of the but BRAF V600E promotes unmitigated cellular which gives us a necessary condition for it When you pee, some urethral cells will be fluid, a shear stress will be produced along systems, it means some of the cells can come come off when blood flows in to a tissue. the skin, the chance of metastasis becomes disease because then melanoma cells can break in the blood. The blood vessels going into the brain have barrier. It prevents certain substances from This blood brain barrier has proteins on it's of proteins on its surface, meaning if a skin live in the blood circulation, when it gets onto the proteins at the blood brain barrier, brain metastasis. Melanomas are the 3rd most common cancer have a higher incidence of brain metastasis, who have a melanoma that spreads somewhere to the brain. side of his body. The 15 minute seizure. If growing inside KC will eventually rupture damage through the cerebral cortex. Ultraviolet radiation from the sun is known doesnt shine directly on KC's brain, nor and skin cancer is known to spread to the tumors originated from. Case reports of people who for years, worked one half of their face revealed the extent Australia, where the UV index is often high, not genetically adapted to the harsh sun contribute an incidence rate of 71 cases per 100,000 The metastatic propensity of malignant primary to causes of mortality in cancer. Colorectal liver first as the shared blood supply make cancers typically go to the lungs first. Breast bones and brain, and lung cancers typically the lungs to be oxygenated, pick up cancer along its interface, enter into the left ventricle the brain. And uveal melanoma, a cancer of kind of melanoma than the skin, typically being right next to the brain. For KC, removing his own primary tumor meant before or after he removed it, the cancer the body. There's a few things that can be done, but his disease at this late stage is grave. Once produce symptoms like a 15 minute seizure, median survival, the time at which 50% of That by 18 months after diagnosis, about 10% clinician's career, over the many patients those few patients who live with stable disease, the rule. At the time KC was diagnosed in early 2011, for KC. Traditional chemotherapies in metastatic time he presented to the emergency room, as on brain metastases. KC was offered brain surgery in an attempt from causing a brain bleed, and minimize neurologic therapy, which irradiates the cells, thereby them from reproducing, but it appeared that as additional seizures and intracerebral hemorrhage At autopsy, KC's brain masses were found in his right armpit and because it's not and independently mutated the exact same gene, present, this was a case of advanced melanoma Sunscreen is a must for anyone who spends from the harmful UV radiation from the sun along with going to a surgical oncologist tumor himself, could have prevented this outcome in the shade, and limiting one's sun exposure approach to one's health in this context. The Ancient Chinese had a character for cancer. a burden carried by one's body. The character right as it resembles a bed turned sideways, tumor, spreading throughout the body as multiple to infinity. Treatment modalities in early 2011 when KC than what ancient humans had. The treatments free survival, and overall survival. But they even after all of these centuries, cancer Thank you to the Griffith Family of Greenock record on their farm and thank you so much