In this video, we are building and each home is going to change Like this family And they have no idea Take off your blindfolds and turn around. Behind you is your brand new home. Oh, I was not expecting that reaction. She is freaking out. There's a bedroom!!! I've always wanted him to have a bunk bed. And my dream come true. This is actually just the first First? I'm glad they're happy. Let's go give away another house. With every single home we're improving quality of life who don't have a safe space to call home. And we spend millions of dollars just on this video building these houses. Because here in Jamaica, there are living in unsafe, Like this next family whose house is so unsafe on them at any moment. - So you built this place? - By yourself? I brought boards But we're on top of a mountain. So you carried all this material - Yep. We knew we wanted to build So we sent them on a trip to work with our partners You're about to witness a family go to living in this house. And I cannot wait to see Oh my. What you're looking at The trip we sent you guys on so we can have time to build Do you want to see the inside? Come check it out. We noticed that so we completely furnished your new place. Now, on top of the electricity, you have a water tank for running water. We put bunk beds in this room Oh my. And if you go across the hallway, - Nice. Because I heard you had a newborn. Tyra, that's your crib. It's been really hard. Here's officially the deed to the house. Thank you guys so much. And it's unfortunate, these families live are extremely unsafe That's where this family currently lives. The mom was telling us that Whenever the rainfall, Her kids get soaked and can't sleep. And as of today, We built that brand new home for you. - Here's the keys. I got a new house. But of course we couldn't stop there and we were able to build a home And we weren't going to stop But unfortunately, at our next that destroys hundreds During rainy season, this river flash and anyone unlucky And as you can see, there's literally a fridge right there, which I assume got there Exactly. So you're saying when this floods that currently have families are going to be destroyed by this river? Yes, they will. Well, not on my watch we've built rows of new houses No joke. We're giving away this home, this home, this home, There's a lot of homes. So we started with Maria and her daughter, whose previous home was and during rainy season. And without even a bed to sleep in, every single God has helped me to stay strong. All right, since they don't speak English, Can you translate for them to turn around Can you turn around? Here is your new house. Oh my God. - Thank you. Mommy! - Thank you. Come check out the inside. Come on. Oh! How beautiful! And while walking through their new home, we realized they didn't even - Oh, you haven't told them it's free? - Yeah. Tell them. It's free. All of this is yours. Thank you god! Congrats on your new home. You're crazy for not - Can I lay down? - I'm going to sleep. What do you think of it? - Can I give you a hug? - Can she hug you? Thank you! This is why we do videos like that. - Look how happy they are. I don't want you to have to worry This is your brand new home. Enjoy the new home, little man. We heard they had a newborn, Son, we have a house. See that row of houses behind me with the family's We are not kidnaping the families. We're giving them all houses Eight families Attention everybody. Remove your blindfolds and turn around and look at your brand new home. Congratulations! For real? It's free? Thank you for the house, Jimmy! I got to go down. - What do you think of the new place? Congrats. Can you ask them - Do you like your new house? Yeah. You like the new house? Let's see if they do. - Very beautiful! Thank you! I hope you like it. - What do you think of your new home? Can I get a picture? Yeah, come over here. I have something way Can you ask him if he Wanna play soccer with him? - Yeah. not only are we giving but we're also giving them And the best part is, I have We're going to surprise them. And this is the neighborhood's first Let's play some soccer. Enjoy your new soccer field. Go have fun. And of course, a new field had to come with brand new soccer equipment Make sure you guys have a lot of fun But I don't know because all of the kids Feastables! All right, here's some Feastables. They really love Feastables here. Feastables is better than Hershey's! I don't know what he said, but if you said it tastes good But of course, outside of this community, more families across El Salvador So on our way out, we built but we're only halfway there in Argentina needed our help, and we built house after house in this community But we still weren't done. So we even flew all the way over to build house after house And when we arrived we found a community whose homes The next family used to live I say used to And clearly And so of course we built John And now all we have to do This family has no idea they're Right there is good. Okay, take them off. Congrats. I know it might not seem real, You want to unlock the front door? They're all in shock. And to be honest, I don't even think They may not be saying anything, Congrats man. Congrats. This is yours. It's so big. It's so big! Before, we only had a We have a home! But John and Ana weren't the only ones So you probably already know What we did Don't you love it? Look at that smile. It shouldn't be a stretch deserves a safe roof over their head. But not every house we built I accidentally broke the lock to the door. Their furniture's still outside, The family just pulled up. We put bars on the - I don't really know what to do. All right guys, the family's here. No way! Are you serious? Hey, how's it going? Come on over. Okay, so, I don't know, I can't get the door open. Here, can you try? Maybe I'm just dumb. Oh, what? Wait, how'd you do that? Are we dumb? All right boys, come on in. And while personally, Do you want to see it? They totally haven't What mattered most is that Jose and You don't have to worry And we also heard their only means And so, one more surprise. We also got you guys Here you go. - Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Now they have a brand new home And this got me thinking. While giving away all these houses, I noticed a lot of people were And I got a solve in this truck. Open it up. We got bicycles for every single - Thank you, MrBeast. - Thank you, MrBeast! After all of these houses we still had one home left to give away. And finally, house 100. Take your blindfolds off - Thank you! - Oh, congrats. Go check it out. Shout out to all our partners And also shout out to you guys because obviously we wouldn't And if the channel continues to grow,