Is a passkey two-factor authentication? Hi, everyone. Leo Notenboom for askleo.com. I will say that passkeys It's a difficult concept for a lot to something that we know is super, Now, using pass keys can feel like The way I want to explain the difference using both traditional two-factor that same scenario using a passkey. Traditional two-factor is very easy to understand. It consists of something you know, you have, like your mobile phone Once two-factor is set up on an account, in on a device, and password of your second factor, provided only by or on the two-factor to set up with your account. After that, the next time you to provide the username and password. The fact that you are able is saved in a cookie. And yes, if you erase cookies, to do this two-factor, two-step again. The reason this is added security hackers overseas or anywhere, They can never get to the second time done it the first time. And in order for that first time prove they have the second factor. They don't. You do. You sign in using two-factor every time after on that same device, It's just your username and password. Okay, that's two-factor authentication. Pass keys. Basic pass keys are similar but different. The first time you sign in on a device, so you'll need to sign in some other way. Now, I want to be clear, that means it could be literally the first your phone or something else, because you lost your original phone. Nonetheless, you haven't set up a passkey The way that happens is Those other ways but they jumpstart the process. They can include responding to associated with the account. That could be enough. Entering a code sent to an email address That could be enough. Entering a code displayed by a two-factor I'll talk about that more If the account still has a password, a traditional username and password. Now, if the account has two-factor then for any of those listed items, you may also need to provide a second factor. Obviously, using the two-factor isn't two-factor authentication, with one of the others could be. You might get a code e-mailed have to provide the second factor. But let's ignore that for a moment. The fact is, you've gotten It may or may not have You may not even have It could be enough that a code was sent with the account that proves more should be allowed into the account. Now, once you're in, you have the option So you do. It's basically a yes, no question. You say yes, and a passkey The next time you sign in on that same device after a passkey has been set up on the device, That's it. The passkey is stored securely on the allows that device to provide the passkey I say unlock the device, this happens even For example, you're just using your other account, and poof, your pin for that device, or your fingerprint for biometric ID, if that's how you unlock that device. But the fact is, you're unlocking the device to send your pass key to Okay, with that out of the way, With traditional two-factor the first time we signed in on a device Again, the two factors when we signed in the thing you know, and then With Pass keys, we signed into with a single factor. Then, after setting up the Pass key on that device also require only a single The only time a second factor is if the account has a two-factor Even then, that's only involved that doesn't have an existing pass key. The pass key itself is not nor is it two-factor authentication. I hope that clarifies. I want to stress, There's really no rush are going to be rolling out fairly slowly But I do advise becoming As confusing as they may seem, password-based systems. Once an account goes passwordless sign-in mechanism, That is huge. I'm sure I'll be writing more and subscribe to my Confident Computing Askleo. Like I said, this is one to take a little while to roll out, and make our world more secure. For comments, for updates, and more, visit askleo.com/174464. I'm Leo Notenboom, and this is askleo.com. Thanks for watching.