Transcriber: Anna Kalynchuk I'm angry. And I'm angry because I wish So I'm a neuroscientist and a lecturer. And as a neuroscientist, I study the brain and the nerves And as a lecturer, I teach the next And look, I see some students especially the older ones, You know, we don't get We just kind of expect it to happen. And I think the worst curse of all really But what if I told you that to learn faster and more effectively? I'm going to take you behind six critical ingredients attention, alertness, sleep, repetition, breaks, and mistakes. Now, first things first. We need neuroplasticity to happen. So neuroplasticity is the scientific our brain's ability to physically So when we're learning something, learning a skill, tiny little connections called synapses form between neighboring And the more we do that thing, the more robust those connections become and the better we get Now, what you're looking at here are two neurons that I filmed Actually, this was a petri dish but I saw they were about to connect, Now, these incredible handlike structures and every neuron has one. They actively sense and they help each and every one find the correct place to connect to. So, for example, from here to here, or here to here. And this isn't learning. What it represents is how our brain Now, when things go wrong or when it doesn't happen you can end up with things Now, kids are a little bit They just seem to need and they seem to remember it. Languages, skills, sports, whatever it is, Now, have you ever met someone and you just thought, "Okay, they must have that the rest of us don't have." Well, what if I told you that It mostly comes down and when in development, So the earlier, the better. And people like they weren't born with their skills. They practiced, and they all So really, our ability to learn (Laughter) but it certainly gets harder And once we hit our mid-twenties, But the good news is I'm going because there are things you can do. You can use attention, alertness, to make your learning better. So first things first. In order to learn, we need Attention is a really important function. So, for example, if I were and focus on your contact you'll suddenly be aware maybe how tight your shoes are, And you weren't aware And what that means is that how much attention we pay to something. And studies have shown that we are more likely especially for the long term. Now, until the last little we have never had to work Like, let's be honest, how many rereading or replaying something Right? Yeah. We are designed to focus There's no secret that that happens when we use social media, so scrolling through our phones completely unrelated bits of information That results in significantly So I'm not saying it causes ADHD, but studies have shown that if you use that results in these attention deficits. So try and use your phone Now, if you wanted to improve there are things like that you can do to improve that. And if you wanted to improve well, you can actually just exercise. I know you're thinking: "Oh, well, my doctor always says But hear me out for a second. Did you know that exercise of the part of your brain involved It also helps you make new brain cells. And studies have shown that It improves cognition, And just 20 minutes of moderate exercise - so not even, you know, intense exercise - that will actually improve your attention So here's what you should do: go for a jog, do some star jumps. It's even better If you're at work, There are lots of things that you can do Next, we have... (Air horn blasts) alertness. (Laughter) In order to learn, It's not rocket science. But he's the thing. If you're not fully focused on a task, then you're going to have a harder time Activating our body's or activating our sympathetic results in the release of things and amongst other things, So what are some other to increase our fight-or-flight system? Because obviously, we can't go around Well, again, exercise - You can do certain breathing techniques You can even end your shower because that will certainly And we also know that stress So we know that if you sit down like this, for example - So what can you do? You can have too much stress, though, as you can see that So when you have been experiencing it physically changes our brain, and it causes issues So if you have been experiencing stress you will have impairments in memory. It is that simple, But little bits of stress are good. They actually help you And we know that having a little bit after a learning task will actually Now you can also ingest substances things like caffeine. And there's a growing body of evidence now before a learning task or actually can enhance your learning and memory through a range of different We know that, for example, if you eat, you are less alert because that's So maybe don't sit down There's also a limit So it's still a little bit contentious, but studies have shown that we are constantly going through So about every 90 minutes, So the reality is you can't be and it's going to be a chunk of about we will be most alert. Now, another thing for alertness is sleep. Yes, if you haven't been sleeping, But sleep is really important So sleep serves a really important So, for example, it resets our immune it resets our emotional control, and it even gets rid of the waste over the course of the day. But sleep is actually critical so for turning short-term memories There's a particular part which is important So when you do stuff throughout the day, It's a bit like a diary. So if I were to ask you before you sat down you're using your hippocampus But it only keeps information And when you sleep, get flitted off to other parts and turned into long-term memories. So if you don't sleep, you can't turn those short-term And that's why sleep That's why pulling is the worst thing you can do for study because you are not going to retain So really, here's what you should do. Make sure you prioritize just so you can be a bit more alert, but also really prioritize because you will need that to retain Now, the old adage says but there's so much truth to that because repetition is key Repetition is key It's not enough to just hear and expect to remember it forever. Just like exercising builds muscle, repetitive patterns of thinking or doing and those connections in the brain so it'll become easier to recall. So through the process of neuroplasticity, And that takes energy, requires lots of little It's a big job. It takes a lot of energy. And the brain's not going in creating these new connections if it's something that That is why repetition It's basically flagging to your brain "Hey, this is the thing that So in order to be more efficient, I need to reinforce this So here's what you should do. Repeat the thing that you are trying in that learning period, So space your learning out so that way your learning has a chance We know that two shorter will result in significantly than using that same amount Sometimes we can learn things in one go. And this is a thing called "one-trial And it basically happens when there's tied to that experience. So, for example, if it makes us really especially if it makes and there's a really important if you think about it. So your brain wants everything to do with that scary event. So that way, you know how to respond or just so you can avoid it completely. And when things go wrong you can end up with things like PTSD. Breaks are incredibly important And there are two main reasons for that. So, first of all, it gives our brains It happens completely subconsciously. So, for example, if you were learning then if you were to take your brain will actually so that you'll be replaying that sequence, And it looks like it might be even better either just having a quiet break - having a nap or doing a round Now, the other reason that newly encoded information And if you were to use those same networks what will happen is that newly encoded in a process called And in kids, they stabilize But in adults, as far as we know, maybe longer. So here's what you should do. Make sure you take a 10- to 20-minute And if you're at work, well, then just try and do those mundane tasks and wait at least an hour preferably do it on a different day. Next, we have mistakes, and I know making mistakes is terrifying. It is really scary, but there's So that feeling of anxiety and stress it serves a really important purpose. So when you make a mistake, what happens is you're releasing and you're getting increased activity And that increase in attention serves a really important purpose. It's basically saying to us, You need to change and do better And it's opening up this window So, whatever happens next, Now, if you make a mistake and you feel well, 'A', you're not going and 'B', well, you're actually learning Here's what you should do. You should set yourself up Quiz yourself on that topic as you go. If you're learning something - don't just kick it straight at the goal. Change the angle. Make it Don't wait for everything to be because at the end of the day you'll be releasing neuromodulators And if you get it right, you'll be releasing things which makes you feel good, which makes you feel more motivated and consolidates the learning of the thing So that's why turning our learning It's a bit of a win-win situation So when you make a mistake, you know, Lean into that feeling and keep going because it's really your brain's way It's helping you be better So, as you can see, I'm not angry anymore. I'm still quite nervous. (Laughter) But that's because I know that you have the keys and more effectively. Those keys are attention, alertness, So next time you're sitting down to learn, get rid of those distractions, increase your alertness, repeat the thing that you are trying in that training period, making sure that you prioritize Embrace your mistakes, and make sure you take because your brain And now I'm going to thank you and I hope you learnt something new. (Applause)