[relaxed jazz music] - I've always admired their range of subnotebook Librettos combined the best in a compromised but lovely little package, letting you have a proper Windows 95 PC in the palm of your hand. As fun as they could be though, they really were just shrunken and in the mid 2000s However, Toshiba brought the This time was something truly unique and with more compromises than ever. The Toshiba Libretto W100, an ultra-mobile PC sold for a limited time to mark Toshiba's 25th year And it was heralded as the world's first dual touchscreen Windows Easy to claim it's the first to hit the regular consumer market, at least. There were pre-2010 dual screen prototypes and concepts that never went on sale, along with specialty products that were mostly bought And the ASUS EeeBook Reader but seemingly never came out. Whatever was first, the dual touchscreen PC and is not a common configuration, especially in a handheld Acer made the Iconia 6120 in early 2011, but that Windows laptop was a beefy And today we have machines like and the Lenovo Yoga Book 9i, but these are all significantly larger than a Libretto ever was. About the closest thing that comes to mind is Microsoft's Surface Duo, but that's an ARM-based not an x86 Windows PC. Even the Ayaneo Flip DS, while being a true Windows PC inside, doesn't have two matching Amusing that they called it &quot;the first ever dual It depends on your definition The Libretto W100 does away with traditional physical inputs. There's no keyboard or just two 7-inch touchscreens Back in 2010, this led to to tablets and ebook readers like the iPad and the Kindle and the upcoming Blackberry Playbook. But each of those were their own platform running a customized OS, whereas the Libretto ran the full desktop version of Windows 7. And although the multitasking it cost more than twice so skepticism was understandable. $1,099.99 was what it cost to order one from Toshiba And from what I can tell, that was it. There were no customization Consumers got one And being that it was a and the final Libretto model, it's no surprise Toshiba sold out fast. Not too many were manufactured and it was available for being announced in June You could say the price but no matter what, it was expensive. 15-inch Windows laptops less than half the cost just no touchscreen. And for something closer in size, a netbook cost $300 or less, offering similar performance, more ports, and a real keyboard. Now of course, the whole that dual touchscreen setup, so who cares? It looks like the future and And for its &quot;priceless&quot; $1,100, you've got a nifty little box of goodies. Starting with an assortment of accessories and documentation, including with a US-style cord connected. The rest of this seems to be European, as evidenced by things like the CD-ROM with its Cyrillic lettering. Also included is this quick start guide with its two sides covering of starting in the form of a guide. Along with an instruction manual, packing a couple hundred of facts and figures, setup and troubleshooting tips, and how to use a touchscreen in case you forgot how fingers work. Also in the box is this delightful leatherette storage thing, debossed with Toshiba Libretto branding. An uncommon style of premium-feeling protective carrying case for the computer to There's nowhere to so you'll still want a bag on the go, making me doubt its practicality, but hey, you can store it on So that's something. And of course there's the computer itself, a tidy clamshell design that unfolds into a beautiful little slab of handheld computing goodness. On launch, it was often compared to a thicker, wider Nintendo DS. And while I don't have one of those, I do have the newer 2DS XL, which is even larger than the But the Libretto W100 is even larger still with its twin seven inch screens compared to the XL's 4.88 and 4.1-inchers. It's also a much higher resolution, with a native 1024x600 on And it weighs just a little over one and a half pounds on its own, with the battery adding another five and a half ounces on top of that. The normal battery anyway, there was a heavier high capacity pack that took battery life from two Nothing to write home about either way. Oh, and under the battery is another sign of this being a European W100, which, by the way, you may And to my knowledge, that whereas mine is the consumer one. Same core specs on both, but some also had a SIM slot on top for cellular communication. Mine doesn't have it. It does have this though, a slot for microSD cards up to 16 gigs. Netbooks often had an SD MMC slot, but I haven't seen microSD before. The lid holes don't stop there either. There are also cooling vents since most of the hardware On the right hand side and an indicator for wireless modes. The rear has no ports at all, just a big hinge for the two screens. And the left side has a headphone jack, and one USB 2.0 port. That's it. If you need anything more, I hope you're all about that dongle life or embrace Bluetooth 2.1. Otherwise you're limited to The only buttons on the one for bringing up a virtual keyboard, and this home button, acting as a multifunction And there's also a webcam with microphone built a sad little 1.02 megapixel thing with a microphone that sounds like this... But hey, at least you get the of Windows 7 Home Premium. [computer starting up] Unfortunately though, it's the full desktop version A great OS on a nicely-specced system, but a chore to use and a sluggish ballsack of an operating environment For starters, it's running a 1.2 gigahertz Intel Pentium U5400, one of their consumer ultra and it's paired with two gigabytes of 800 megahertz DDR3 RAM, the maximum supported configuration here. So you run into the issue where you wanted an OS newer than XP, but we're stuck with less than Now, it's still notably and it does at least so it doesn't chug as much as it could, but it's still prone to and going nuts with the thermals. And the aluminum top lid acts making the whole upper It's nice that the bottom sat on your lap at least, with only the battery warming up a bit. But man, that lid just And its little high RPM cooling [fans blowing] But even if the hardware Windows 7 is still a poor choice here because it's a desktop OS and this is a dedicated dual touchscreens at that. So all the annoyances of using a non-touch-optimized And even with Toshiba's custom software, it just sucks to use. Heck, I don't even like using touch on modern Windows laptops either. For touchscreen devices to be decent, they need a UX designed for touch, properly taking into between a mouse cursor and a human finger. Stock Windows 7 simply All of that being said though, I have certainly had worse experiences with full desktop versions a tablet style touchscreen So it could be worse, but yeah, it could still be better. In fact, if it had that would've been better, with its metro interface and the tiles, and just more but it's Windows 8, would you really wanna put that on here? And besides that came out so it wasn't even an Now, was there a Linux that's touch optimized for I'm not aware of one. If there is, let me know. I'd be kind of curious to see that. But just standard Windows as an extended display, just two displays on top of each other Because that's what it is, and Windows sees it as two monitors. That's all it's doing. And so if you want, the way that this works. Like, if you wanted to do it side by side, it freaks things out. You know, for instance, if you wanna just clone the two displays, or have them, come on now, [laughs] There you go. Yeah. Anyway, let's put that back. It's also important to note that you can really just You can't do both at the same time because it really is just one large desktop we're And the mouse and or both function like it's just an application So really the mouse to being down here. So you can't like keep the mouse up here and adjust the keyboard down here. No, it's gonna go back and forth. You also get these so you have that right there. This with way more keys, but of course makes everything smaller. It's nice to have your And you have this split Actually a couple of those. And if you press this, this brings up like a virtual touch pad. Again, it's kind of odd though. Now you see like there's just the mouse cursors moving And then sometimes, if you tap down here, it'll treat it like the and moving down here because as a mouse like separately, it really doesn't work well. One thing that is really nice are the keyboard haptics. There's a bit of a delay sometimes, but it's actually, especially when you're I'm not doing that here just because of the video recording, but you know, when you do it like this, it feels genuinely quite good, again, except for the lag. Sometimes it's a little bit laggy, but the haptics are actually pretty nice. Now, it's still not an I would very much prefer even a basic, kind of crappy netbook keyboard to this. You know, even these with the EBC, with the teeny little I still prefer having You do often run into Yeah, if you type too fast or if you don't hit exactly Now, another mouse quirk here is you don't actually have right click. So you have to do this hold down and then secondary tap to bring up the right click. Or you can go to this Pen You've got all these options, flicks and pseudo-gestures and handwriting recognition, [mumbles] a bunch of things. Some of 'em work better than others, but you have this right here, If you enable that, you have this mouse overlay that pops up. So, instead of having to you can just click that right it pops up every time you So it's kind of annoying. I kind of prefer the other way of just the tap and then duh-deh-da. But yeah, you got options. The accuracy is quite Sometimes you get a where it'll lose it if there's For instance, if you're just it won't do it. You have to kind of give It also means using a capacitive pen just doesn't do anything. Like this is just one that I use on my different touchscreen devices, phones, tablets, my Nope, doesn't do anything. You have to kind of use if you have one of those, closer to a finger basically. And that still doesn't do anything, but if you press down so eventually it'll kinda work. Yeah, it really does just want a finger. As for some of the Toshiba software, you have this home and that'll bring up this Toshiba board that does various things. So just a bunch of shortcuts really to the sponsors that they have going on. You got your users guide, diagnostic security, that whole deal. Also saw this bulletin board I guess they were pretty happy with this, but I just don't like What is that? Why is that But yeah, it's one of those where you can just add and just put a bunch of things down here while you're working on I don't know, I just, I find these things a million times more finicky and kind of annoying physical notes out on your desk. What's wrong with real Post-It notes. I don't want virtual ones down here. It's just kind of annoying. And of course, Toshiba included all kinds of other applications. So a whole bunch of things in here. I hate navigating the start menu on this. So yeah, Bluetooth even though it doesn't Media controller, just and different utilities. Dang it. Nope. There we go. Eh, I'm gonna plug in a mouse. We know how it works with I'm so tired of fingering this thing. Oh, it feels so much better. Right. So then the utilities here. Eco utility for battery saving, face recognition is interesting. So it actually uses, you to have you log in using your face. Oh man, how fascinating Flashcards is just for managing but of course you can do that straight up through Windows as well. This is an odd one. HDD SSD alert, all it says [laughs] If it's not, I guess But yeah, most of this is pretty generic. About the only thing else to and this is their ebook which again, the press were It goes into this I don't know if these are or things you could buy or something. I'm assuming there were somewhere in here, but you can bring up the user manual and the quick start guide and whatnot. Let's bring up one of these, I don't know, &quot;Grilling Basics.&quot; [laughs] Yeah, so I was thinking that this would be a little more optimized for this particular setup, like having Windows or properly split between the two screens. But no, it's just expanding Like any other program really. Man, it is so hot across the back of here. But yeah, you can see it's Like fullscreen mode since you don't have that but you still have this stuff down here and then your start It's just, it's so awkward. Ugh. I don't even know how to so we're just gonna which you do by holding down the keyboard button for a while, and it's vertical. I just have to restart. Like I don't even have This is the crap you run into It seems like every application breaks something in a new way. It's a fascinatingly annoying experience. So what exactly is ideal on Well, pretty much the mentioned over and over in old So like, watching a or the top screen and then having some Yeah, I mean it's fully surprisingly so. Even running YouTube in you pretty much limited it like 360 or 480p really for running YouTube videos. But it's surprisingly compared to a lot of at least in regards to basic productivity and things like that, which is really what it's designed for. If you start doing anything with gaming and 3D acceleration, ah, there's So I've got a DirectX 10 3D Mark Vantage obviously. Yeah, I know this is not made for this, but just kinda curious, right? I know I am. And the answer is... I mean it wasn't gonna be great, but it doesn't even open this, it just gets stuck on &quot;creating shaders&quot; every time I've tried this. Oops. It's unfortunately I'll say. Problem is I forgot to even say what we had in here. It's just some intel integrated whatever's in this sharing between 64 and 728 megs. I'm assuming it takes You'd think DOS box would Well, it does actually load We can move around and Eh, it's kind of playable Control holds down there as a toggle button, so and it eventually will stop. No, it actually doesn't. I thought it did. But yeah, it stops whenever and surprisingly the arrow keys actually, sort of function how you like you can hold up or You are able to just That's the maximum multi-touch on here. But yeah, it's the toggle for like Control and Let's try full screen here now. Alright, now here's where and by that I mean it doesn't work at all. Yeah. Like the keyboard I dunno what, well, okay, there it is. Let's go back into, can we Nope, try that. Yeah, no it gets real wonky whenever you run pretty It's a bit of an issue for games. Perfectly fine for your standard In fact, it's actually for stuff like Solitaire, You know, I don't dislike this at all. Wish things were a little but hey, it's about as good as it gets. Another kind of ideal situation here. Well, nevermind. What the heck is going on with the mouse? I guess it's good now. [laughs] Okay, well an most ideal situation. Yeah, games like Because yeah, it's a more or less fully mouse driven experience. So, there we go. Yeah, place all the burger bars you want. Soda drink stalls. Perfect. Yeah, it seems to play just fine now, once it figured out what's going on, of course it really freaks the heck out if you do anything down here, so just pretend this doesn't exist. But then you run pretty Quake III here, like yeah, doesn't know what the heck It does work with this mouse. But if we go into an actual game here. Yeah, that's what happens Because this down here, all these controls for the keyboard or And so it thinks I'm basically moving the mouse really rapidly in because that's effectively down in the bottom right And so, you really need to and a physical mouse in order It's possible though. And about the newest to kind of run on here is Minecraft. Specifically one from 2010 or 11ish, one of the beta versions that for this back in the day. 'Cause I saw some old coverage mention that they tried it on Bring open the virtual keyboard here, and it's incredibly slow and sluggish. My goodness. That is awful. And this is the very lowest settings, too. But again, you run into this issue where if you try to actually move it thinks that you're moving the mouse to the bottom right and clicking, you just gotta have a physical keyboard in order to do anything in terms of games, which this So I guess you can't really blame it. That is not what this is for. And something it does feel Nintendo DS emulation, we got the dual screen thing going on, so I've got the DeSmuME I don't know, it's just a it would work in Windows What happened to my mouse cursor? It's a little wonky. Obviously this emulator the interface or anything about it, but yeah, it actually kind of works. Didn't mean to press that but... Well, [laughs] I spoke too soon. I'm gonna try one more thing here that I was testing out earlier, I was having some issues with, I don't think I had all the buttons mapped or, well, I didn't have a Yeah, Sim City DS, which works just fine here with the menu, but eh, you know, it's a little iffy once you Okay, build a power plant. And the sound is just turned off right now 'cause it's so sluggish that adding it makes it Half the time the inputs then they do and it's like catching up and speeding up and slowing down. The fan's going crazy. Anyway, this machine isn't made for this, but you can do it and Yeah, another little nifty I almost forgot about this. Yeah, this Libretto piano program. [piano keys playing] Yeah, kind of neat. Unfortunately that to press in two places So yeah, only two note polyphony here, but you know, got some Charming demo, that's all that is. That's about it for the Obviously there's all sorts of but results are wonky, but it is not a gaming machine. It was never supposed to be really for anything other than and email and office stuff. That's about it. And it's pretty clear from It's one of those devices that they did because they could do it, rather than they should. And why not? It was Toshiba's 25th anniversary of making little laptops So they were excited to and that's what we got, A limited edition novelty, for the well-off nerd or business person or whatever kind of weirdo decided to buy this thing back in the day for a lot of money. You just have to really to choose the W100 over You know, even netbooks, which were unfancy and slow and just bleh, but they were far better in terms of usability and productivity than this Libretto W100 is. At least until you start and then by the time you do that, it's no longer the dual screen or hoped to be, or tried to be. The ambition here in the experimentation is what I most admire. Anyway, if you've ever used let me know what your experiences were, what you did with it, what happened to it. It's just that it's fascinating to me that this dual touchscreen idea was even hitting the It's still such a niche Again, if you've ever used one of these or even a modern dual touchscreen device, lemme know your thoughts in the comments. It's a fascinating and I hope you enjoyed If you did, then do stick around. I have more LGR things both the old and not so old, and as always, thank you