Brainy Dose Presents: 12 Genuine Signs of Intelligence Have you ever encountered someone who really And whether they were using big words or just obvious that they weren't as bright as they While smart individuals are more likely to less intelligent people are prone to overestimate Intelligence is indeed something that a lot to fake. However, there are certain things in life is one of them! In fact, there are several indicators that levels of intelligence. Here are 12 of them. Number 1 - Insatiable Curiosity You might think that pretending to know everything it's the ones who admit they don't know everything It's not just because it displays humility; in learning new things. Truly intelligent people ask insightful questions topics. As a result, they continue to learn throughout Number 2 - Open-Mindedness Too many people take pride in what they believe, with their rigid point of view. Intelligent people tend to be more objective perspectives and make an effort to really While this doesn't mean they are gullible, definitely aren't afraid of exploring new Number 3 - Being The Silent Type There are many misconceptions about quiet or weird. This isn't necessarily true, though. They may not be the life of the party, but assess the situation and find someone worth And if they're already in a group conversation, responses before saying them out loud. They also find silence better than engaging Number 4 - High Adaptability Life isn't always going to be easy. Some complain about that, and they might even work. Intelligent people, on the other hand, feel Adaptability is actually a key component of It refers to the ability to adapt to new situations This trait is also linked to resilience, or Intelligent individuals aren't afraid of uncertainty way. Even when things don't go as planned, they Number 5 - Strong Self-Control When hurt, rejected, or dismissed, many people Truly intelligent people are different; they them and can therefore avoid rash decisions. They're more the type who think rationally You won't find them throwing things and what Number 6 - Ability to Acknowledge Faults Those with an ego will never admit a fault them inferior. In contrast, intelligent people do not tie an easier time accepting mistakes and moving Being honest with yourself and others is an Number 7 - A Knack for Wit Studies have shown that humor and intelligence In fact, comedians, in particular, score higher That's because humor involves not only processing and perfect timing, as well as higher verbal This unique ability and presence of mind allows circumstances and things into something you Number 8 - High Creativity Innovative ideas and creative solutions are intelligent. Creativity is actually one of the highest thinking outside the box. Since intelligent people are able to see things problem-solving. They're also great at turning visions into good observation skills, in addition to a Number 9 - Strong Self-Identity Intelligent people have the wonderful gift This means they are tapped into their psyche ambitions, strengths and weaknesses, and their This doesn't mean they think they're perfect; They accept their insecurities, instead of However, their sense of self doesn't falter Intelligent people work on their weaknesses, Number 10 - Ability to Maintain a Variety Intelligent people don't limit themselves projects they're working on. They might work a full-time job while growing taking music lessons, or refinishing all their While many people like staying busy, these that help them improve in some way. Number 11 - Preference for Solitude Intelligent people need their time to recharge This doesn't mean they hate people; it just and study past experiences to plan their next They understand that the more time they spend and their ambitions. Of course, they do have friends and family time. Number 12 - Sensitivity to Other People's Intelligence isn't only determined by a high It plays a significant role in the achievement and overall happiness. A well-developed EQ enables you to better and where they're coming from. Being sensitive to the feelings and emotions in a way that is appropriate to their needs. Empathy, is in fact, one of the most prominent In essence, there are many aspects to human and behavioral patterns that can be recognized Which of these traits do you identify with Tell us in the comments below! If you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs-up, keep making them. For more videos like this, hit the subscribe bell. Also, be sure to check out our other videos Thanks for watching!