Oh my gosh, oh my gosh... I'm shocked, what's this??? Guys, where am I? Long long rows with frozen giant fish!!! I have no words! I have no comments! Just have a look! Am I Dreaming? Really? I'm going to explain beginning! Hello, my dear viewers! This is Marina and region of the world, not only of Russia. And it Moscow, and there was a delay in flight for but I'm so happy to be here! It was my dream to And let's get started! I hope you will join me, it's very very cold!!! My dear viewers, The Peasant City and it's a real attraction, just have a look! ordinary market, and and then you identified, that Do you know why? People, sellers, trade in this market in an the most important feature and unusual peculiarity You see, sellers stand on the goods. And customers are not freezing, besides all day here, and she answered, you know, few days ago it was below 50, and she was yes, it was cold, it was really cold! The name Marina, is it all local fish? Sea fish from Far East of Russia and... So, this fish came from No, not cold, she says!!!! oh my God! Fish is extraordinary and so beautiful! This is local fish - chir fish and muksun fish. I my hands are freezing Oh, the most attractive attraction is burbot fish! How many kilos? 10 kilos! One fish 10 kilos! Great, great, I'm shocked! I'm not tired my dear viewers. In different regions of Russia at this fridge, it's not a fridge, it's a special gloves. Just a look, yes, yes, yeah, it's You know, what? Guys, Marina has been in Yakutsk for 15 years already and smiling, yeah. She likes her work very people! I tell you every time about it! I They are so cute, have a look, kindhearted. See you next time! I don't know, what to tell, but I'm sure this is not for me and guys. Fish is fish, but rabbits are like cats and Yakutsk is very very popular local market between rivers, as Marina told us before, and from Northern shock freezing. What does it mean - the fish were No special equipment, very easy way of keeping these are the names of fish - are impressive! About 1 and a half metres high and its weight is about 20 take pictures with this fish. Maybe I also need a 44, guys! For sure, for sure, I was getting ready to all warm clothes with me, but I'm fish! My dear viewers, let's check out much is the fish!! I don't know the names into subtitles. We translate our videos on the subtitles. So, fish omul - sea omul, 1,000 rubles dollars, so, divide all prices $10 for kilo, a little bit less. Fish chir. Very Chir for stroganina, stroganina is a famous dish of yakuts cuisine, when you eat and eat it raw with the sauces. What else can I show you? Big nelma! 1,700 rubles for 1 kilo of nelma. One fish is about 18,000 rubles, so not mistaken. You can correct me, my dear viewers. some your corrections! This is what? Of course, fish is not cheap, but fish cannot Selmon, 1600 rubles, big I will buy smoked chir at home friends. Peled fish, I don't know how Coho salmon is like a pink salmon or So, you see, prices are different, fish is different, fish and that's all. But it's different - each fish, each kind of fish. It's really very Because you know, all I do - I do for you! And Northern Region especially for you! What can we find here ? Berries, frozen berries. You see, raspberry - 1 kilo 650 blackberry, strawberry and different different Very very balanced diet! And now let's explore this part. This is meat row. These As for meat, my dear viewers, you can buy the And you know, here, in winter, it is the balcony, because any balcony here, in Yakutsk, As for big blocks, how to cut it? How to divide such blocks into sawing companies, sawing points in Yakutia, you your body, with the body of killed animal, But who is completely lazy, I know, that they It's a typical picture, that you can I want you to show right now prices for some meat, 700 rubles for one kilo, it's typical Beef, but it's typical for European beef, it's from 650 till 1,000 rubles for 1 kilo, nonsense... I don't know what to say... because this is Yakuts, the horse is included into tell you in another video about the religion Pork is typical food, Pelmeni. I asked this wonderful women about normal thing, because they live in minus 60 helps them to survive, and not to for this region, for people. That's why they And you see, they eat a lot of horse meat is also with fat, and it Oh, my dear viewers, surprises are think, it's fat or something? No, this is frozen drink like an ordinary milk, 150 rubles for 1 kilo, To say, that I'm shocked, it's nothing to say. I'm It's something strange... but it's this straight - I chickened out, guys, I'm the market! On the way to inside Right way! How do they live here.. With this wonderful fish... It's getting colder... I think it's about -50 alredy... My camera refuses to work... wait a moment... Oh, guys, what did I do outside??? Have flashing,but I hope you can easily immerse It's very very attractive market here! so happy! I see all, that I love! I hope look, it's wonderful fish! You see the prices, kilo. And yukkola - is a type of cooking, this rubles. As for me, I love yakuts already! Yes, this is I have a channel Made in Russland. This is all made in Russland! What is the most delicious fish? Fat nelma and chir. I hate this light, guys! Yeah, salty fish, I would in my videos when I try something Chir! Let me see how you are doing it! Fat chir! This is a present for me because Yukkola. Without salt, it's a Yukkola is something... Cold smoked nelma. Can you see it? And it's melting in my mouth... this is salty fish, not smoked. Welcome to Russia, my dear friends, to meet this wonderful girl Lilia and she will give you with great taste! For sure, my dear viewers, here, at this want, including vegetables and fruit. Yakuts have all they need and at the end of my video I'd like to show you something extra, very so what's this? It's a great delicacy - foal with deer, made from deer and from horse, and I mentioned before. My dear viewers, I decided Yakutia, but several videos, because I can't miss amazing and unbelievable and unforgettable my best videos about local markets. And