(upbeat music) - Hey guys, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken and I am this cat video. I, no, sorry. I guess my phone battery is dead. You know, if only two rebels could undermine the smartphone industry and invent a supercharger that in 15 minutes, why don't we Well, we do! Say hello to the MultiVoltz! As with most things in life, if it sounds too good to So let's dive into the MultiVoltz claims to be which can charge your phone in 15 minutes and reverse battery This video ad has been and tons of people have requested And I'm glad you guys did, because this one is scammy as heck. As you can see, it actually exists. It arrived, but that's about about this whole thing. The ad talks about two who worked at a large tech Until one day, they The company was using batteries designed to get worse They discovered all devices have this intended battery aging flaw, to force customers to buy each time the battery There's already so many and we're only about 10 seconds in. So, let's just power before we start taking it apart. So Chris and Damian quit their jobs and created a device which could And they discovered a way to bypass the battery killing practices that their ex-employer was using. Ultimately, they created a supercharger, which can charge your phone in minutes and reverse the battery aging process. And behold, the MultiVoltz was born. And my favorite claim in this whole ad is that they say they can by 200%. What century are these guys living in? In the future, maybe that can do that, but there's Then they claim it can than a normal charger. And then they say, &quot;Watch &quot;and see for yourself.&quot; So then they time-lapse and then they cut the video? What! The results of that could Who knows how much time passed an hour could have gone by. And I love how they has barely done anything. Well, 36% is still something so eat me. So, blah-blah-blah, And then they claim devices like this are usually over $150. Okay, that's not true at all. So, let's start picking apart this ad. The first big problem with this scammy ad is the claim about battery health. Their claiming that this is actively killing the battery Well, this unnamed company doesn't exist. The whole backstory is fake. A lot of these ads like to try to get you into and trick you into buying something. But it seems like they're taking a stab at big companies like Apple and Samsung. I don't believe they are So let's take off our tinfoil hats and just acknowledge That's just, that's how it works. It's not evil, it's science. But the worst part is they the batteries health, which is a lot more of a complicated issue so we'll cover that in a moment. Another issue with this ad, aside from just being poorly shot with lots of stock footage, is that they stole this clip from the Explorer YouTube Channel, specifically his video about And again, the $150 claim is total BS. You can get similar devices for $25 to $50, depending and features. And the OEM price per unit tops out at only a buck 85 on Alibaba, and about only $4 on eBay for retail. And again, this test could but in a bit we'll run our own tests and see what the real results are. And by the way, the YouTube channel that hosted one of the video ads has another video on their channel, and guess what it is, Cosmic Scope, AKA StarScope, another that I covered in another episode. They're all working together I tell you. There's someone pulling the strings. So now, let's take a look When you Google MultiVoltz, the first four results Good, it seems like people's are working. Among the search results yourMultiVoltz and buyMultiVoltz. Oddly enough, one website feature list says you can charge zero Quite a stark contrast from But then another section says or less. More inconsistency equals more red flags. And they claim MultiVoltz is that uses this patented Yeah, I don't think so. The website also says but that's not the name of this product. So, I'm confused by that. One of the sites also has a with a, you got it, 4.6 average rating, just like we've seen in I think &quot;James Bond&quot; writer Ian Fleming sums this up perfectly, &quot;Twice as coincidence. &quot;Three times is enemy action.&quot; Yeah, it's as if they're The website reiterates on but I think the claims on They say the &quot;Smart circuits are designed &quot;to monitor the charging &quot;It will automatically stop charging &quot;once your battery is fully charged.&quot; Now, that could possibly work, I guess, if this very cheap thing is able to communicate with the phone. But phones have this type of monitoring and optimization technology so I'm not really sure what But that's not really the main problem. It's the next statement that concerns me. It also says, &quot;This mechanism &quot;and heals past damage.&quot; So this brings us to the How can it be possibly heal There's many different types and in certain cases, or recondition them. But in the context of smartphone batteries and USB power adapters, that First off, we need to behind how a rechargeable battery works. Generally speaking, a A cathode, the positive end, an anode, the negative end, The electrolyte is an ion-filled substance which reacts with the atoms in the anode, and this builds up electrons, subatomic particles. The anode and cathode of certain metals. And the electrolyte is a paste, The chemicals vary depending on what type of battery you're using. Simply put, electrons on the negative side naturally want to flow but they can't pass But when a circuit connects it allows the electrons to flow, creating an oxidation-reduction reaction, or a redox reaction. This generates electricity. When an outside power source is connected, for example, your USB power adapter, the flow of electrons is repeated redox reactions Eventually the electrons can't be stored in the anode anymore, and from negative to positive. No more electricity can be produced. Now, depending on how they might say these chargers they're USB power adapters It's the charging circuits activate the charging. Is it possible to reverse and heal it with a USB power adapter? Well I don't like to but I do like to say the word improbable. The wear from the redox is chemical. The metals physically and they can't be regenerated So, with all of that in mind, it seems like it would to buy one of these, right? But of course, I'm the So, I went ahead and bought one. The purchase process was but I had doubts about especially considering there's plenty of non-American outlets in their video. Then I received this bogus discount with a fake countdown timer, and then a pandemic relief discount. Then I received an upsell page which says, &quot;Don't use regular cables, &quot;you won't get the full experience.&quot; I doubted that, but just to humor them, I bought the denim lightning cable. The charger and cable took, I think it was about two at least they showed up. When I opened the box, was the product actually It says Quick Charge 3.0. And when I looked back on the same Quick Charge logo but the MultiVoltz logo Either way, the hardware Now, full disclaimer, I understand that none of with the Quick Charge so according to the copy on the website I won't get the really quick But, in their video ad, and they show non QC 3.0 devices So to try to keep things fair, I'm gonna attempt to replicate with my own test. I have an iPhone 7, an iPad Air 2, and an iPhone 12 Pro for this test, and they're all at 0%. I plugged in the iPhone 12 Pro with the recommended denim cable, and I connected it to the red USB port, which automatically recognizes it doesn't matter in this case because iPhones don't use QC. But the other devices were By the way, the ports were very tight. You have to use quite a bit of extra force to plug them in. About 16 minutes in, the while the iPhone 12 Pro was at 18%. The iPad still hasn't booted, so I couldn't check the percentage. Remember how the ad ripped for only getting the phone Well, as you can see, couldn't even get that far. While we wait for everything to charge, I'd like to recommend this It talks about how computers and just stop working. I actually collabed with and I love how it turned out. So, feel free to watch that episode next. By the way, this thing is noisy. It has kind of like a (device hissing) It's definitely not as 90 minutes in and the So, for the sake of my sanity, I'm gonna just take this one but I'll still leave it screw anything up with the other devices. Ah, the results are in. And the final times are, iPhone 7 took two hours and it tied with the iPhone 12 Pro, and the iPad did not finish. So my iPhones took over than what the ad and certain Not even close. So yeah, this product is a scam. Don't buy it. But if you have bought something similar, I would like to know what And personally, I don't think it's worth fretting over the health of your battery. Thankfully, many modern to optimize your battery so so you shouldn't have to worry. But also if your battery you can get the battery replaced without having to pay Ultimately, all batteries will die. So, let's just enjoy them while they work. And if you'd like to help me buy more of these insane products to dive into feel free to pledge to my Patreon, and in exchange I will give So, thanks for your support. Also, my new podcast just and if you're an Apple you're definitely gonna And hey, if you liked this Thanks for sticking with me. Catch the crazy, and pass it on. (upbeat music)