- [Narrator] We use cast in the Tasty Kitchen for a They're virtually indestructible, and unlike a lot of things they actually tend to get better with age. People are often a little thinking it's, you know, or hard to clean. It's actually really easy, you just have to know So, seasoning is a process even if it's new or you was passed down to you. Often when you have a new any water that's left on, they're really susceptible to rust. We're gonna help you figure happening and how to clean that off. So we're gonna start by Whether it's knew or has we're just gonna scrub with a mild dish soap and kind of base layer. The way that cast irons are made, it's all kinda one piece the part that you cook with. You want to season the entire thing. While we're here we're just all of the sides, on the get the handle. Once you're happy that all the you can go give it a And either use one of those or the tough side of a sponge. Just do another quick go around, making sure you got every nook and cranny. A good rule to remember whenever iron is water will make it rust. We always want to get it as or move onto the next step. So because of that, we're and then you're gonna and turn it on. And let all of that excess boil off. Once you're happy your we're gonna take it off the process with a thin layer of oil. The new standard is that for the job. It actually drys the hardest longest lasting seasoning. The only downfall is and if you don't want or frankly, you just don't canola oil will work just fine. A little background on your skillet. The surface is actually porous, which just means there's kind that we kinda want to smooth cooking surface. So once we have this thin layer we're actually gonna do our There's enough oil that has So take the clean side of your paper towel and rub off as much of the oil as you can. One of the biggest problems wipe off enough oil and they and then it comes out of and not giving them the So you're gonna put your on the highest temperature it can go, between 450 and 500 degrees. So this process is gonna The reason we need our oven want to take the oil past its actually starts to breakdown So if you've ever taken our kind of brown and sticky, it's probably because your So after an hour, you can turn in there. The result is a hard glassy that helps make our cast iron non-stick. So, intro to cooking with cast iron. You actually really do It doesn't necessarily heat evenly, but it keeps the heat really well. So just take your time, heat This may take five to ten minutes. Because cast iron is such if you actually just the bottom of the skillet, you can feel when the pan's ready to go. A lot of people are confused. You know, they did all the seasoning and their food is sticking to the pan. Usually that's because in a cold cast iron pan. One reason to get a cast iron things like meat. So another things that people when they're cooking with a just move the food around a lot. And actually what we're a nice caramelized crust. So when you put any meat just leave it. Let it cook. When you see the kinda brown that's when you know it's ready to flip. So if you're trying to lift not give, it's probably The meat will self release Why we love using cast is because you can start and finish it in the oven. So you oven here that you in a cast iron skillets. However, if you have a good that's totally fine. You don't want to do a ton of, you know, a big tomato sauce or a but a little bit's not really Don't be afraid to roast in your cast iron skillet. The great thing about being on the stove top and finish it in the oven is you just have a lot more control. You can get a nice layer of on the stove and then finish on a much gentler, radiant heat. So when you're cleaning your cast iron, you want to hit a sweet spot. If it's cooled down too much, the food will adhere and And if it's too hot and you you can risk it cracking. So you want to wash the pan The most gentle way to clean and salt and a non-metal scouring pad or the rough side of your sponge. The salt works as an abrasive any food that's on there without damaging the seasoning at all. Once you're happy that your pan is clean, give it another towel dry and either on the stove or in a there's no lingering moisture. And that's gonna protect it So last thing, we're gonna on the skillet before we store it. Carefully with a paper towel, rub that all along the inside. Turn up the heat until the oil is smoking, then turn it off and let The reason why we want to is so that the oil doesn't turn rancid. Cast iron skillets may but just follow these simple and these pans will last you a lifetime. It's like loving a good woman. The more you give, the more you get back. (laughing)