- We are going to make (crowd cheering) - It's January 15th, 2017. In five days, Donald as president of the United States. Thousands of miles away in Cairo, Egypt, at this bank 11 kilometers a bank manager receives a handwritten note from someone who holds The note asks him to, quote, &quot;Kindly withdraw a sum This was unusual. But according to bank records, bank employees did what they were told, heading to a vault full of US dollars and assembling stacks of $100 It all weighed about 200 pounds and comprised a large part that were in Egypt at the time now sitting in bags in Until later that day They verified that they were and they took the money, put it into a truck, and left. The bank account where that belonged to a shadowy organization called The Research and Studies Center. It was an Egyptian entity, but it's an entity that US for the general intelligence Basically Egypt's the Egyptian CIA, let's say. So the Egyptian CIA takes out $10 million. And from here, the trail goes cold. Because shortly after this the account is closed. And that entity, The who owned the account, Why did the Egyptian CIA Who were these men who collected it? What were they doing, does this $10 million have to do with former President Donald Trump? This is a really important one that the FBI and federal lawyers have been secretly investigating because they strongly made its way into the hands a foreign country trying And in exchange, buying And they suspected that Trump and accepted this bribe. And if he did, that would be I wanna tell you this and how it was suddenly shut down by Department of Justice officials who were appointed by Donald Trump. This recently released reveals that there was that we didn't know about until just now. So I'm gonna try to visualize this story, show it to you in the Now listen, I know that this is a very politically sensitive topic. There's an election coming up. We all are taking our sides. I commit to you that I'm going to stick to rock solid facts here. I'm gonna lay them out the best I can and show you the evidence that clearly demonstrates Whenever I'm making or my own analysis, I will Ultimately, I wanna lay this all out and let you make a decision as to whether you think whether you think something or someone needs to be held accountable. As always, every assertion and linked in my sources by time code. You can always check leave comments if you have issues with it. And with that, let's dive in. - Today I wrote another I'm spending money like crazy. President El-Sisi has been somebody that's been very close to me I met during the campaign. Where I could stand in and shoot somebody, and I - Hey, before we go on, I wanna explain something of reporting on stories like this. Going deep on stories takes weeks, like, sometimes six or eight or 10 weeks to like really understand these stories. And a tool we've been using who is the sponsor of today's video. Ground News is a website and an app that gathers news from around the world and condenses it into one single article. They'll show you this story and then they'll show how factual the different sources are, who those sources are owned by, and what political leaning or bent is present in the coverage. All of this happening in both on mobile and desktop. Let me give you an example If you type in the Trump you can see that more have picked up the story and almost all of the Only 13% of the coverage comes from right-leaning publications. And you can see that one that democracy will die if the case against Trump is dropped. While a right-leaning as a, quote, &quot;brief probe.&quot; I mean, there's a ton of bias present in both of these headlines, and Ground News lets you easily see that. There's also this feature where you can look at your reading habits, the top sources that you're drawn to, how reliable the articles and it will help flag blind the stuff that you're either avoiding consciously or unconsciously. In other words, it helps get which, in this day and age, is becoming more and more important. So if you value critical this is probably a good tool for you. And Ground News is offering a 40% discount to people who use my link. It is GroundNews.com/JohnnyHarris. You can also use this lovely You'll get 40% off the Vantage plan, which has all these features Make sure to scan the QR code or use the link if you do sign up 'cause that helps out the channel. So, thank you Ground News supporting our journalism. And with that, let's about Donald Trump and Egypt. (pensive music) All right, hold on a sec. I have been using this elementary school for about 10 years as And I don't know why, but I love it. Okay. To keep things totally I'm gonna make a list. I'm gonna call this list, What We Know. And in this box, on this list, I am going to put the that are rock solid facts Number one, we know that to Donald Trump's campaign. They planned on it, they approved it. How do we know that? The CIA. &quot;Ah, Johnny Harris talking Here we go.&quot; The CIA spies on everyone. We know that. We know they spy on foreign And during the 2016 presidential campaign, we know that they had a within the Egyptian government. This was a reliable informant who had given the CIA reliable They trusted this person. Between this informant and, the CIA learned that, including Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, had signed off on sending $10 million to Mr. Trump's cash-trapped campaign.&quot; They say this happened just Okay, let's go back to our list here and make this more specific. The CIA is actually saying that they know that the actually signed off on giving specifically $10 million. We were never supposed to learn about this intel, by the way. This was totally classified, And in my mind this It comes from multiple sources, it comes from a reliable informant. And the CIA used it as a way to pass along to the Department that there may have been some foreign interference from Egypt. And with that, let's get back to this guy, Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, He's a military man who after kicking out Egypt's first who by the way was horribly unpopular and the people also kind But, yeah, he rose the power in a coup and then just held on to power. And predictably, once he started silencing the press, squashing political dissent or political opponents, locking people up, arresting journalists and Same old story. But his record was so bad that during the Obama administration, the US cut Egypt off of billions that we usually send them. We cut it off to basically punish El-Sisi for all of these horrible So Egypt gets cut off from But not for long. (pensive music) Okay, here's the second thing we know. Trump and El-Sisi met up in like when he was still a candidate. It was September, 2016, a few They're at the UN headquarters. (crowd cheering) And they have this closed door meeting. And according to the Trump campaign, Trump was very warm to El-Sisi. Now remember, the US was because of all these human rights abuses. So, like, that was the MO for diplomats. Trump totally breaks from all of that in true Trump fashion. Says that he loves El-Sisi, he's gonna invite him to the White House. The campaign says that the US will be, quote, &quot;a loyal friend to Egypt.&quot; Here he is on Fox News - [Donald] He's a fantastic guy. He took control of Egypt and I thought it was a great meeting. We met for a long time, actually. We had a long meeting. - So that's the other thing we know. That's why it's on this list. Trump loves El-Sisi, they have a good chemistry. Trump wants to help Egypt. So it's actually not surprising that Egypt wants to help Trump win. Like, this would be very good for El-Sisi, which explains point number one here. El-Sisi signed off on this plan according to good CIA intelligence because he wanted him to win. It would benefit him and (pensive music) Now, a little context here, presidential campaigns are really messy and hard in the last few weeks. Campaigns kind of have to spend millions and millions of dollars leading up to the election to blitz on advertising, on travel, on like get out the vote campaigns. But the Trump campaign found in the weeks leading up They didn't have the money to do this. They were running out. So what did the campaign do? They asked Trump himself for money. This post investigation reveals to write a check to his campaign for a final blitz of television ads. And the response was, no. &quot;Trump repeatedly declined.&quot; He didn't wanna give any to this campaign. That is until October 28th, 2016. It's five weeks after Trump and Trump suddenly changes his mind and announces that he's to his campaign for this final blitz. And how much is he going to give? $10 million. - [Donald] Today I wrote I'm spending money like crazy. - Now, one small thing here, that while this $10 million like a donation from they actually structured it as a loan. $10 million that could Okay, so we know that on giving Trump's campaign $10 million. Why? Because Trump and El-Sisi are friends and a Trump presidency would benefit El-Sisi and his regime greatly. We also know that Trump who refused to give money to his campaign in the final weeks suddenly changed his mind and wrote a check for $10 which was a loan to be paid back. Okay, I'm gonna add that to the list. Does this all feel solid to everyone? Like, we're... Like, these are rock And now let's just add the point that we talked about that five days before $10 million of cash... Or sorry, $9,998,000, two grand away from $10 million, was loaded up in two bags taken out of a bank account that is associated with I'm gonna add this to the list. So looking at these four items, doesn't it kind of feel obvious? Doesn't your brain want and paint a picture that it President, El-Sisi, who we to his new friend Donald Trump orders $10 million to and secretly transferred And Trump knowing this loaning his campaign exactly $10 million, knowing that he'd be repaid Doesn't it all lined up? Like, case closed. We can just like convict somebody. No, that's not how it works. That's not how the burden of proof works. It's not how our justice system works. This list, while full of robust facts, still doesn't paint a It is in the realm of $10 million over here, they must connect. But investigators never They never found the $10 million flowing in to Trump's bank account. And therefore, this is and not rock solid provable anything. But luckily, when we have this, that's what investigations are for. (gentle percussive music) Soon after Trump takes office, the Department of Justice Because remember, this is when &quot;El-Sisi signed off on This was concerning intel and if you remember, that about foreign interference A lot of that focused on Russia. That was public, that was a big thing. We all talked about Russia But at the same time, there was this investigation happening into whether Egypt helped It was all happening because it was pretty sensitive. We're talking about potential bribery of a sitting president. So the FBI and investigators trying to find evidence Meanwhile, president Trump exactly what he kind when it came to Egypt. He invites El-Sisi as to the White House. He calls him, and this is a direct quote from someone who was in the Quote, &quot;My favorite dictator.&quot; God, Trump. Boy. &quot;My favorite dictator.&quot; And then remember how by the Obama administration of like $1.4 billion of military aid? Trump unfreezes that money and it starts to flow to El-Sisi, not for anything in return, just give El-Sisi the money. And this was against the advice of his first secretary of state. He said like, &quot;This is not a good idea.&quot; And Trump's like, &quot;Yes, it is.&quot; $1.4 billion to Egypt. Now listen, if, big word, &quot;if.&quot; Put if on the screen. If El-Sisi had bribed to help get him elected, then He is benefiting a ton Now, we don't know if he did. We don't have any direct But if he did, pretty good investment. So while this is all happening, the FBI and federal investigators continue to try to find a link. $10 million leaving Egypt. Did it ever enter Donald To find this out, they of requesting Donald Trump's They were gonna look at them to see if $10 million showed up sometime before the election. So let's get a calendar out here. The FBI requested records the months leading up to the election. But guess what? They didn't find anything. They found no suspicious deposits from foreign entities of $10 million. So then they decided to go and get their records and they fought in this and it's detailed in because the Egyptian bank didn't want to give over their records. They're like, &quot;No, no, no, no, no. We're not gonna give over our records because that would,&quot; quote, &quot;wreak havoc on American foreign policy, possibly alienating US allies, undermining diplomatic efforts, and inviting reciprocal treatment.&quot; Geez, what's in these Like, what is in these records that's gonna topple So this epic court battle goes down, there's like a secret investigation and court thing happening in DC. It goes all the way to the Supreme Court. And finally, the Egyptian bank has to surrender the records. And this is how we learn about the big transfer in US dollars that happened from the They didn't know about this before. But the investigators about all of these records that they got from the Egyptian bank, which is that other than that said, &quot;Put $10 million in two bags and four guys are gonna come pick it up,&quot; they felt like something was missing. And I'm gonna quote just so clear. They found that the bank, quote, &quot;had not turned over a single email of that enormous same day transaction,&quot; the $10 million of cash, and &quot;that the lack of any on such a huge sum of money, same day transaction, was unthinkable.&quot; The US prosecutor who continues with, &quot;Its strains credulity that the bank kept such a let alone that it was in less than 24 hours.&quot; Translation, the bank all their records. Like, really, there was no &quot;Hey, there's gonna be a from this bank branch near the airport.&quot; So they're probably missing some records, but they did get that handwritten note that talked about the $10 five days before the inauguration. January 15th, let's get Now, remember, the FBI had from May to November, 2016. So if the $10 million was the FBI wouldn't see it because they only had Trump's &quot;Okay, well, that's easy,&quot; says the FBI. &quot;Now that we have new information about this $10 million let's just get a wider set of records from Trump's bank, something after January 15th so that we can see if shows up there.&quot; This is like standard One FBI agent told The Post that if this were any other investigation, they would have a justification to get these records, But because this wasn't this was investigating the they would have to ask And who is their boss? This guy, Bill Barr. And here's where the investigation starts to deteriorate, unfortunately. (pensive music) Bill Barr was appointed by Donald Trump to be the Attorney General. That's the head of the the top law enforcer of America. Bill Barr can reasonably You may disagree with me on this. And if you do, please I'd love to hear your rebuttal His job is to keep the And yet, what he showed during his tenure is that he would often side with Trump. He would undermine and he even stoked fears without real evidence. Though he did eventually come out and affirm that the 2020 because there's no evidence that it was. But, yeah, the guy is a Trump ally. And the big question is, why does the president who is supposed to keep The American system is not perfect and there's also other on how we keep the president honest, even if this guy's biased Anyway, I'm not gonna go into that. That's a story for another day. The point is, Bill Barr, and he is the boss of all these people who are investigating the So he hears about this investigation, he hears that the agents want to expand the amount of bank records so that they can see if there after the cash left Egypt. And he doesn't like it. He doesn't like it one bit. He goes to the FBI director and he says, &quot;Hey, you need to,&quot; quote, &quot;impose adult supervision on &quot;hell bent on getting a wider range of Trump's records.&quot; Adult supervision. Yikes. That doesn't sound good. Barr starts voicing doubt who are working on this investigation and starts to question whether or not there's to continue the investigation. Now, a note about the agents. If Bill Barr is politically appointed and potentially marred by political bias, the investigators in They're career employees They are there because They have shown that they're committed to the values of justice in America. They've not risen because with some political person, at least not as much as Politics is in everything. It's impossible to escape it. But these career investigators And these career that this investigation That they had evidence was to get a wider so they could see if and they are met with by Barr and other Trump appointed leaders within the Department of Justice. This drama, this tension, which is now thoroughly documented in this Washington Post investigation. I recommend that you read it because the The Post interviewed like dozens of these people and it paints a picture The political appointees It all comes to an end when Barr kind of suddenly who was working on this case with someone who was And he almost immediately pumps the brakes on this investigation. He halts it. A few months later, BARR with a new prosecutor who with the subject line The Post looked at this and it states that, quote, &quot;Based on review of this &quot;closing the above matter with So it was over. That was it. Whether or not that $10 million from Cairo ended up in Trump's world and whether or not Trump knew that that $10 million was coming, and therefore he gave $10 million to his campaign knowing whether Trump's actions as president, actions that greatly benefited Egypt were the result of this money we will probably never know any of this. And in the eyes of the career because the mechanism investigation was shut down too early and through politically motivated bias. Now, that's my read. I'm gonna make it very clear. That's my read on this. You should read the accounts who felt like it was shut down too early. My read, my connection is that for politically motivated reasons. And so all we're left with is this, a list of some rock solid but nonetheless are not rock In 2021, a new administration They could have reopened and seen it through properly. And yet, the new Attorney until a year later. But by then, it had been since those two bags of cash were filled with $10 million in Cairo, meaning, this thing called had expired. It was too late. They couldn't actually prosecute this. The Post reached out And in reply, they said, quote, &quot;The Washington Post is by deep state Trump-haters peddling hoaxes and shams.&quot; Okay. And then just recently, New Jersey Democratic was charged in a case that alleges that he used to benefit Egypt in exchange for cash, gold bars, and other luxury items. - [Reporter] He accepted acting on behalf of the - He was bribed by Egypt. Like, we know Egypt does this. I mean, we could add this Egypt likes to bribe people. Okay, to end this, I just like, crystal, crystal that Donald Trump or should be convicted or found guilty for a crime in this case. It is so tempting to and just say like, &quot;Well, yeah, clearly, It all adds up.&quot; But we just can't. That is not how justice works. Trump must be presumed innocent until there's sufficient But to me, there's still which is that a group were able to shut down an investigation that career prosecutors because there were further rational reasonable steps that they would've But in this case, they couldn't. That's the travesty here. To me, that's not So with that, I wanna leave you to read the full investigation There's more detail in there that sheds light on how this went down. And I'm grateful for the reporters who spent the months and because it brings it to light. Maybe if we see this and it'll be less likely to happen again. Thanks for watching, folks. See you the next one. - [Donald] He's a fantastic guy. Took control of Egypt and got along. There was a good chemistry there. You know when you have You're (indistinct) of that. And there was a very good chemistry, good feeling between us. And I really enjoyed that meeting. It was the other day. And he's done a very good job and we had a very respectful meeting. (pensive music)