We live in a universe with 3 dimensions of Up, down, left, right, forward, back, past, 3+1 dimensions. Or so our primitive Pleistocene-evolved brains And we cling to this intuition, even as physics only a very narrow perception. One of the most startling possibilities is described as resulting from a spacetime one from a surface infinitely far away. The holographic principle emerged from many of theoretical exploration of the universe. Over the past several months on Space Time, built a the foundations needed to glimpse We've moved from quantum field theory to We've made a background playlist if you recommend catching last week's episode. But this is tough material, so let's do The story started with black holes, and with to describe their entropy. A black hole's entropy represents the amount ever fell into it. This Bekenstein bound represents maximum possible space. Oddly, that maximum in is proportional to That was surprising - surely the information - like, 1 bit per infinitesimal voxel - not Steven Hawking confirmed the Bekenstein bound by a black hole as it evaporated in Hawking His discovery of Hawking radiation led to this radiation was expected to erase the quantum black hole. But destroying quantum information would break Hence the paradox. This conundrum inspired Gerard t' Hooft that fell into the black hole could be imprinted And while it's waiting to be radiated, that horizon. Nice solution, but new paradox. Things that fall into a black hole do actually being inside the black hole. So the interior of the black hole has a dual From the point of view of outside observers, but from the PoV of anyone falling in they to their doom in full 3-D glory. This is the first glimpse of a holographic properties of the 3-D interior. 't Hooft along with Leonard Susskind extrapolated sufficient to fully describe the locations full machinery of the volume can exist on to describe the behavior of everything within. But it's one thing for this stuff to FIT encoded? How does the 2-D surface store information And how do interactions on that surface correspond Leonard Susskind laid out the first steps theory, but ultimately it was Juan Maldacena realization of the holographic principle with But I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's ignore string theory for the moment dimension. Let's say we start with a plane - a flat, Now grid it up into a lattice of cells and interact with each other. Those rules are a field theory, the lattice elementary component of the field. But perhaps not the smallest possible component. For now let's just say the size of those grid. For example, the resolution of our microscope Probably the rules between cells - the field Focus on a very small scale and we see a very set of rules, zoom out and we see a courser smaller cells, and which presumably interact Or so you'd think, but we're going to We're going to say our field theory is scale-invariant. We'll say the rules are the same for the We see scale invariance in fractal patterns, to infinitely large or small scales. We also see it in string theory, which I'll A field theory with this property is called In the last episode I said that a conformal angles unchanged. A conformal field theory has this property. For example, you can change the scale at every the internal angles or the shapes of the pixels, of interaction. By making this a conformal field theory we've changes in scale - also known as Weyl invariance. This adds a degree of freedom everywhere - like 2-D grid points. Objects on the 2-D grid also have values on scale. If objects at different scales don't tend degree of freedom behaves just like another Our 2-D grid behaves like a 3-D volume, and You might say it's not a real 3-D volume But is it? What is a dimension but a number-line of possible dimensions but is independent of them; b) and c) imposes some kind of locality - for to be next to each other to interact. Crudely, this is how an extra dimension can But for the details we need string theory. Even from the beginning string theory had weirdness. The first iteration of the theory, around pairs of quarks - mesons - as this strand A nice feature is that the changing the length in the bond - doesn't change the basic That means you can pretend string length-slash-energy The weird thing is that when you write the with length expressed as a separate dimension quantum particle of gravity. Which is ridiculous given the puny energy there. This and other glitches led to string theory force. But it was quickly rejigged to make it a theory of the strings becoming a central feature Fast forward a couple of decades to the 90s. We now have a several versions string theory can lead to the familiar particles of this These were tentatively united by Ed Witten's of string and string theories were all related A duality is when two seemingly different physical reality. These arose from the way string size and energy But the strangest string duality was still by Argentinean physicist Juan Maldecena in Strange because it provided the first concrete Maldecena imagined a set of string theory These are like multidimensional strings that but also as spaces embedded within higher-dimensions. Maldacena considered geometrically flat 3-D These branes are extremely close together The strings connected to these branes are can vary without changing the physics. Under certain assumptions he found that the a Minkowski spacetime of 3+1 dimensions on from interactions between branes. In itself that field theory wasn't stringy- the ones that gives us our standard model but with supersymmetry added in. It was also a conformal field theory - a grid sizes. This quality fcame from the energy-scale-invariance of this space. In good string-theorist style, Maldacena defined spatial dimension. The 3-D space became a 4-D space. While the original space was flat, the new hyperbolic, anti-de Sitter or AdS space. The conformal field theory in the original space it became a full quantum theory of gravity. This is AdS/CFT duality. As with the other dualities in string theory, When interactions in the lower dimensional say the fields are strongly coupled - then structures in the higher dimensional space Conversely, strong gravitational fields in holes - look like a solvable configuration Among other things, this provided a new resolution information lost in a black hole persists space. The techniques of AdS/CFT correspondence are and condensed matter physics. But the more startling implication of AdS/CFT of a holographic universe. The lower dimensional CFT space is the surface exists where the new dimension becomes infinite. That's tough to imagine - so let's go space from the last episode. Represent a 2-D hyperbolic space as a compactified one. Anyone inside the hyperbolic space still has Now stack many maps to represent slices in The resulting column has a geometrically flat on its own. The rules of interactions between cells on But those rules translate to interactions they are a theory of gravity. AdS/CFT is a hint that we may live in a holographic It doesn't represent THIS universe, because curved AdS space, nor does it have 4 spatial But there are efforts to generalize this to The question we now wrestle with is this: our universe may be holographic - or at dimension. Can these just be crazy mathematical coincidences? Maybe, but perhaps our familiar 3+1 universe representation out there. An abstract mathematical surface infinitely projecting inwards our familiar holographic Before we jump into comments, we wanted to merch store. Including the return of our Game of Thrones is coming. It's a great way to support us as is joining Links in the description. Last week was the warm-up to today's episode, can have a finite boundary. First up: no, no psychadelics were involved The universe is just that weird. A few of you asked whether our percieved universe space. So that's actually the opposite of the proposition that our percieved universe is the volume, surface. In AdS/CFT correspondence, the volume exhibits the surface exhibits no gravity - only a quantum the standard model. Part of the confusion comes from the fact with 4 spatial dimensions, which would have So that obviously doesn't directly correspond But there's work to generalize it to our case Related to that, Musical Ways asks whether, say there would be no gravity on the surface So first - the &quot;surface&quot; in current AdS/CFT That surface contains only a conformal field The strange miracle of AdS/CFT is that gravity dimension, which ends up looking like the KI9 asks whether the things we learn from live in given that our universe doesn't have Well we don't know for sure that it doesn't - negative or positive - is very weak compared Measurements of the geometry of the universe it's truly flat, or just flat as far as we Several people were offended that I dissed I want to go on record as saying Pitch Black Realmaml summarizes my position well: Chronicals still better than any Marvel movie. And I'm sure saying this will cause no further Cuallito notes that it's looking more and a timelord. In a separate comment Midplanewanderer states So apparently we can't agree on what genre Personally, I'd always thought of him as a quantum consciousness stuff. Midichlorians, microtubuals, potato potahto. Anyway, perhaps we need to accept that Penrose and a lightsaber. By the way, if anyone feels like drawing Roger and a TARDIS, you would win the internet.