A guy and a girl meet in school. They start up a conversation and the girl He replies, "Christian." She says, "Me too." That conversation has likely happened millions Christians on this planet. On top of that, the Center for the Study of the world there is something like 45,000 Christian Throughout history, there have been splits, different things. It would be an understatement to say it's on one great big split and what happened after But first back to the start, and we don't or Judas Iscariot giving his buddy away in What we mean is when the church really started That's when the problems started. After Jesus Christ died on the cross and was the Roman Empire, although there was a fair Then in the year 313, Emperor Constantine the state religion. The Catholic Church says that it began with Those guys spread the word, and today people There are people called bishops, and they In part thanks to them, Christianity was soon As the centuries passed, more churches started become pervasive until the 11th century. That's when things got really heated. All you need to know is that Christianity head guy, the Pope, was in Rome. Even so, many Christians weren't even close They were spread over other parts of Europe, East. Those people were part of Eastern Christianity, not beliefs and customs. Now you need to understand two words: Catholic Catholic actually comes from the word "universal", Orthodox relates to following the correct you're just doing things the right way according Of course, no religious person is going to And no person is going to say my religion not really a religion. In this sense, the semantic sense, all Christians the point of this show. Now we come to the big split, aka, the "East-West This officially happened in 1054 and was the often not getting along politically, and having Christ. One historian, speaking in academic parlance, The "depths of intellectual alienation that Christendom." They had their differences and they broke Nowadays the Eastern Orthodox Church is the Church. The pope is not their leader, instead, each who's elected by all the other bishops in or what's called the Holy Synod. There isn't just one, though, in all Orthodox For instance, you have the Russian Holy Synod, and more. This is different from the Pope, who sits no one. You also have the Patriarch of Constantinople the spiritual number one and the "first in that he doesn't hold sway over all the He still holds a lot of respect, but then Archbishop of Moscow. In matters of doctrine, the Roman Pope is get anything wrong. The Orthodox church disagrees, saying even Those leaders, by the way, are usually ordained Orthodox Christians are usually ok with priests Catholics don't allow priests to have intimate Celibacy is not a big deal for most Orthodox The difference is not really a great issue. A really big difference and the reason for words: the giver of life, Who with the Father and the Son is adored That's talking about the Holy Trinity, which This disagreement over this has been called relating to the Son. It was actually one of the biggest reasons You see, those guys in the East said it was the Holy Spirit, and the Son wasn't so involved. They even said if you think any different, Swords were drawn and they were never sheathed. Still today the Son in the Orthodox Church the Holy Spirit. They say the Western Church shoehorned the right. They preferred what they think is the original the Church Fathers. Still, both churches agree that there is a to Earth and also a Holy Spirit that is everywhere. They just don't agree on the relationship Ok, but why do they disagree and why do people Let's face it, it's human nature to join usually determines which club you'll be Now you'll see how each club has different You are likely wondering what this seemingly If you mention the Son proceeding the Holy liable to find yourself in a punch up? We doubt it, but both sides do argue over For instance, you might have seen Catholics such as soccer players before they take a narrowly escaped a whacking. You'll notice that they make the beam of shoulder. Orthodox Christians do it the other way around. It might seem like a small deal, but it isn't way. We visited an Eastern Orthodox website to This is what we read, "They [Catholics] and apostolic tradition. We cannot answer as to their motivations." Yet again, the Roman Catholic Church gets not adhering to old-school thought and methods. The Orthodox Church says it has preserved It pays more attention, or most people do, If you're going to try and preserve traditions, rituals. Religion is by its very nature conservative, Church is usually more conservative than the To give you an example, we looked at Pew Research and same-sex marriage. In the majority of countries that are home of people were against both. Greece was the only country where quite a people said homosexuality should be accepted The Catholic Church also calls homosexuality within the church, more so than in the Orthodox Just to give you an idea of how a certain Greek Orthodox Church in the US. The question was, "I am powerfully drawn He asked if he could still join. The answer was kind of yes, but with some homosexual who refrains from homosexual acts usual course of instruction, but he or she just as is common with every other sin." Of course, all people are different. We like this response we found on another more conservative: are both all over the map. You will find Orthodox Communists and Orthodox and the like. Same goes for Catholics." Still, some things are just different and Take Easter for example, which for many people explained it: "Commemorating the death and a giant bunny rabbit left chocolate eggs in He was actually referring to Catholics or Church. They are deadly serious when it comes to the In both churches, Easter can fall on different be different for both churches. The reason is because of a man named Pope In 1582, he made a change to the calendar you're looking at the Gregorian calendar. The Orthodox Church bases the days of Easter Caesar. Again, they are sticking with tradition since calendar. They are also a lot stricter about Easter. They start fasting on Clean Monday and do eight days before Easter. This fasting period is called the Great Lent. When that's over, they might chow down on but not so much sickly Cadbury's Cream Eggs The fasting part for Orthodox Christians is matters such as purification, enlightening In short, it shows a certain amount of dedication. Catholics may fast too, but only on Ash Wednesday, The truth is, Catholics are more likely not As a matter of fact, members of the Orthodox and Friday throughout the year, and many will Catholics should also fast every Friday, but As for what fasting requires, well, that changes Some people are stricter than others. It often means one meal a day with no meat, among other things. For some Catholics, it might mean staying The meaning of Easter for both churches is In both cases, Christ was crucified and then on JC suffering for our sins. That's why he's usually depicted covered There's no blood in Orthodox renditions. For the Orthodox Church, the emphasis of the his triumph over dark forces. If Catholics see it as Jesus taking a hit a way, the Orthodox folks see it as Jesus This might seem like a small difference, but For the Orthodox Church, Easter is like celebrating like shamefully looking up and saying, thanks There are some other differences, big and A small one might be that people of the Orthodox It's not demanded by any means, but it happens Again it's down to the interpretation of That is not a big deal, but what is a serious In the Orthodox Church, there is no such thing The Church also doesn't have indulgences, to pay their way out of going to hell. Why? Well, again, they say these things were made To them, the difference is important. In 2007, the Serbian Orthodox Church talked a traditionally silent prayer. It sounds like nothing, but people went into One person held aloft a sign that read, "Do You can equally imagine a more modern-thinking in a bar and one of them saying, "Remind The other just shrugs and says, "Because No doubt we'll take a beating for our flagrant some people, very serious matter. However generalizing we've been, we've Time to duck for cover. Now you need to watch, "What Is Hell Really Or, have a look at, "What Actually is God?"