The speed and power of computers has been 1960s and 70s. And now artificial intelligence, combined to solve some of technology's biggest barriers. But scientists now say humanity is at a critical next century will shape the course of our Will humanity one day reach the highest level become an interplanetary species with the Or will our own technology doom us? Stay tuned to find out. [LOGO] In 1964, Soviet scientist Nikolai Kardashev that all civilizations, regardless of the energy to sustain themselves. As societies grow and develop, their energy such as population growth, rising living standards, To measure the level of energy consumption, but other scientists have since suggested Each type of civilization is distinguished they use. Now let's take a look at each of the seven [Type 0 civilization] A Type 0 civilization uses almost all of the energy, launching into space using rockets That's where we are right now. This is because a Type I civilization consumes currently consume about 10^13 watts of energy. This puts us at about 0.73 on the scale. According to American theoretical physicist that humanity will be capable of consuming Type I civilization within the next 100-300 But to cross this line, we have to get through wipes out civilizations long before they can The theory behind the idea that each extraterrestrial to its own survival came from economist Robin This Great Filter can be anything from nuclear planet killing asteroids, or even climate If we make it past whatever the 'Great Filter' to advance to the next civilization type. [Type 1 civilization] Civilization Type 1 is also known as a planetary When we finally reach this stage of evolution, all energy resources available on Earth. This means that us humans will need to fully our planet. The Earth absorbs about 71% of the energy And each hour 430 quintillion Joules of energy The total amount of energy that all humans That said, if we were able to harness all power everything with just the Sun. Wind along with hydroelectric energy would When it comes to harnessing the power of a a huge breakthrough in clean and reliable But the old stuff certainly needs to go first. Our current nuclear power plants run on fuel energy conversion coefficient, leaves behind of accidents. Nuclear fusion on the other hand will provide energy without radioactive waste. By creating engines that can be powered by spacecraft to any planet in the solar system. Life on Earth could become more comfortable, possible that, in the future, we could build Advancements in medicine will ultimately defeat significantly elevating the longevity of human However, the future holds even greater promise [Type 2 civilization] A Type 2 Civilization, also known as a Stellar 10^26 watts of energy. Scientists think humanity stands a chance Once we get there, it will enable us to tap There are multiple ways we could do this, Dyson Sphere - a colossal megastructure with Earth's, capable of capturing and transmitting Alternatively, a star can be encompassed by This method of energy harvesting is sometimes The swarm would consist of a large number which could be positioned at different distances energy capture. The energy collected by the swarm could then for storage or use by the civilization. As humanity ushers in the age of anti-gravity for extended space travel, and the colonization With advancements in medical technology, astronauts that extended space missions have on their prolonged life expectancy become a reality. However, as our civilization continues to before the limits of the Solar System become and push the boundaries of our technology. [Type 3 civilization] According to Kardashev's calculations, reaching up to 5800 years. At this level, we will have harnessed the even collected photons from the accretion With an astonishing 10^36 watts of energy the power to travel almost instantaneously phenomena of wormholes. To further expand our horizons, we will create explore new frontiers beyond our wildest imagination. We will also probably come closer to the concept to maximum potential. While this level of development may represent scholars have gone beyond Kardashev's theory 4 to 7. [Type 4 civilization] A Type 4 civilization would achieve the ultimate harnessing its incomprehensible energy potential Their mastery over the power of supernovae, the Milky Way, will grant them access to vast And with the addition of dark energy, they corners of the cosmos, possibly even settling Yet, this is merely the beginning of humanity's As humans of the future delve deeper into will be able to manipulate entire galaxies, systems. There are hypotheses such a civilization will transferring their consciousness into digital With such immense power at their disposal, as we know them. But as they push the limits of scientific universe is far more vast and complex than Perhaps, they will even discover there's [Type 5 civilization] If multiverses turn out to be their new reality, worlds, harnessing an almost inexhaustible And hypothetical white holes, which are considered the key to achieving this. Meanwhile, science will actively delve into secrets and possibilities that were once thought [Type 6 civilization] According to scientific theories, a type 6 If humans were to enter the fourth dimension, beyond the three dimensions of length, width, be able to exist or function in this realm. Scientists think that the physical laws and in the fourth dimension, making it incompatible But for our descendants, who have risen to Theoretically, they could learn to preserve be transferred from one dimension to another. The only obstacle could be energy resources But maybe a type 6 civilization will be able multiverses. Although purely hypothetical, whoever inhabits of light, travel back and forth in time, and After hearing all this, you might think there may be another tier, the utmost peak of civilization's [Type 7 civilization] A type 7 Civilization would consist of the space, time, and dimensions. We cannot imagine what life in a civilization such a civilization can even hypothetically In this unfathomable universe, completely Even if we were to gain access to them, we In theory, it would take us 10 duodecillion years to become a civilization of this type. Another idea is that we will never reach the of beings, but rather existence itself. We wouldn't even notice if such a civilization Contemplating the possibility of extraterrestrial However, the search for evidence of such advanced Looking for civilizations of the lower levels pursuit. The theory of different types of civilizations on exoplanets with conditions suitable for According to NASA, there are potentially 300 we have only studied about 55 of them so far. Advanced telescopes like the James Webb Space biological life, but also for signs of technological Astronomers believe that with the modern equipment signs of a Type 1 civilization if it existed In this case, extraterrestrials would be traveling ships noticeable. A Type 2 civilization is also unlikely to In order to gather energy, it would need to If a Dyson Sphere were constructed at the if it were stable, it would enclose a space area of our planet. In other words, the interior of the Dyson area of the Earth. According to Dr. Robert L. Forward, such a unit would require approximately 10^27 kilograms the mass of Saturn. However, this estimate assumes a solid shell challenges of building such a structure. It would take a lot of building materials them with Dyson Spheres. Nothing like this has been detected in the However, there were a few times when scientists Sphere. When the SETI Institute detected a signal from Earth, astrophysicists hypothesized that such a powerful signal, but it turned out And in 2008, astronomers detected an exoplanet and dubbed it Fomalhaut b. At first glance, the planet appeared as a moved across the sky. However, in 2014, the planet had vanished, its disappearance. Some suggested that the planet's orbit may away from its parent star. Others proposed that Fomalhaut b had migrated star elsewhere in the galaxy. It wasn't until later that researchers discovered planet, but rather an enormous cloud of frozen This debris is thought to have formed from icy asteroids - an extremely rare phenomenon. Although we may never know for certain what a Type 2 civilization was in need of building as a Dyson Sphere. Given the uncertainty surrounding the disappearance even begin to trace the activity of a Type Civilizations of type 3 are either very rare Astronomers have searched for them using the large amounts of infrared radiation that such So far, no signs of such activity have been It is hypothesized that type 3 civilizations of which is not yet fully understood. One particular area of interest is the Bootes and galaxies and has a diameter of 330 million of the diameter of the observable universe. According to scientific speculation, the empty of activities by an advanced Type 3 civilization. It's possible that some extraterrestrials one, covering their stars with Dyson spheres Scientists hope that Earth's technological hypothesis in the near future. Do you think we will ever find intelligent And if we do, should we ever try and get in Sound off in the comments, and stay tuned cosmic discoveries. Thanks for watching.