Friends, I have a very important announcement! I'll only take half a minute of your time. We now have our own magazine called CHTIVO, just like this channel's name. This magazine covers both historical events and contemporary issues. We've tried to stitch together these two worlds, because, really, everything is a piece of history. The first issue's cover features the great actor Yevgeny Tsyganov, who starred in my series, which is also called First Issue. Inside, the main topic is the history of entertainment - how spectacles, from legionnaire fights, evolved to huge concerts like Taylor Swift's, which now drive entire city economies. There are also many opinion pieces by authors you've loved since the Esquire days. And most importantly, we've opened a pre-order for the first issue, because the first issue always flies off the shelves. This was true with &quot;Pravila Zhizni&quot;, true with Esquire, and later it ends up selling for ridiculous prices. So, we set up a pre-order to make sure enough people can get their hands on it. The pre-order is available on Ozon at this link. Now, let's get back to watching history. How do you hold a grand feast in a time of plague? How to dazzle the world with splendor in a poor, embittered country? The Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, has the answer! Shah Mohammad Reza came to power in 1941 after a joint USSR-British intervention in Iran. But America soon became his main ally and benefactor. He crushed internal opposition and suppressed dissent - after surviving an assassination attempt in 1949, he began to tighten his grip on power. It would be inaccurate to say that the Shah did nothing but imprison the discontented. But his key agrarian reform was a failure. The reforms caused imbalances in development and led to sharp confrontations with the Shiite clergy. As is often the case, the religious slogans of the opposition intertwined with political and social ones. The faithful criticized the Shah not only for deviating from religious norms, but also for corruption, authoritarianism, and foreign policy. The leader of the protesters was the theologian Ruhollah Khomeini, a seminary teacher and preacher. Iran is rich in oil, and the Shah was one of the founders of the OPEC oil cartel. So there was money in the country. It's clear that a lot of it ended up in the pockets of the Shah's inner circle. But he did try to invest in modernization. The question is how successful he was. The Shah clearly wanted to modernize the agrarian economy, but he didn't seem to fully understand what needed to be done or in what order. Power plants were built without engineers or markets to supply them. Factories were built from scratch without workers or consumers for their products. Money was poured into the economy, but it only fueled inflation. The Shah's Iran resembled a giant workshop filled with excellent new parts that couldn't be assembled into anything coherent. At the same time, modern industry was being built in a country where many still lacked access to basic drinking water. Oil revenues went to the Shah's head. He believed that oil revenues could fill any budget gap and saw himself as the leader of a new global player, the heir to an ancient Persian civilization. He embarked on foreign policy ventures, bought weapons, and redesigned Tehran to present a glossy facade for his modernization efforts. He was enamored of historical and civilizational concepts - the history of ancient Persia, the destiny of Aryan civilization. Behind this glittering facade, however, all was not well. The oil boom was followed by a crisis, and the overheated economy began to falter. The Shah was an absolute monarch whose word was indisputable. But with such power came a downside. For all the unrest, poverty, corruption, and the paradoxical situation in which the country faced both a shortage of skilled labor and a lack of job opportunities, the people blamed their monarch Amid this backdrop, in 1971, the Shah embarked on a grand celebration of the anniversary of the founding of the Persian Empire. He had his own calendar, tracing back to the ancient Achaemenid Empire, starting from Cyrus the Great in 550 BC. This meant the celebration was planned as a staggering milestone - the 2,500th anniversary. Preparations for the celebration took a year. The event was directed by the minister of the imperial court, Asadollah Alam, who was in constant contact with the empress of Iran. The ruins of Persepolis were chosen as the venue for the celebration. Persepolis was built in the 6th century BC in the southwest of modern-day Iran. King Darius moved the capital there and began constructing colossal structures. Each subsequent ruler added new luxurious palaces, treasuries, colonnades, gates, and tombs to the city. This continued until Persia fell under the attacks of Alexander the Great. Persepolis was burned and abandoned. However, even in ruins, it was awe-inspiring. This was where the ceremony was decided to be held. After all, this wasn't meant to be just a party with pop stars, but a celebration for the ages. Iran was to present itself to the world in magnificent splendor. The symbol of the celebration was the so-called "Cyrus Cylinder" - a clay cylinder with inscriptions praising King Cyrus, found in the ruins of Babylon in the late 19th century. The cylinder was loaned to Iran by the British Museum for the duration of the celebrations. The Minister of the Court faced a challenging task - to make life in the ancient ruins comfortable and enjoyable for the event. All the necessary infrastructure had to be built from scratch. The nearest major city, Shiraz, was more than forty kilometers away, so the airport and highways had to be rebuilt. Shiraz became the construction base and the staff was housed there. The surrounding area had to be cleared of snakes, dangerous animals, and anything else that might pose a problem. Near the ruins of the ancient capital, a &quot;Golden City&quot; was built for the guests - a luxurious glamping facility. The tents that housed the guests were divided into rooms - bedrooms, living rooms, bathrooms, and servant quarters - and furnished with modern amenities: bathtubs, telephones, and furniture. In essence, each tent was like a small, tastefully decorated apartment. Of course, the Shah made no attempt to hire local talent to create this exemplary Eastern spectacle. This Persian Disneyland was designed by a Parisian design firm with nearly a century of history. The tents were arranged in a star formation around a central fountain. In addition, a special large tent was erected to accommodate important guests. Finally, a banquet hall measuring 68 by 24 meters was prepared for breakfasts and dinners. Catering was provided by the renowned Parisian restaurant &quot;Maxim's&quot;, one of the most famous establishments of all time. The restaurant was closed for two weeks to cater the Persepolis party, with 160 cooks, bakers and waiters working on it. The guests certainly did not go hungry - the restaurant staff came from France with four tons of meat, a ton of seafood, and thousands of bottles of wine, not to mention other supplies. Even huge blocks of ice were brought. The menu would have satisfied the most discerning food critic. There were quail eggs stuffed with Caspian caviar, lobster tail mousse with white wine, and other such delicacies. The highlight of the event was imperial peacocks served at the table - although the peacocks were taxidermied and the actual meal was the stuffed quail arranged around them as if they were their courtiers. For smaller needs and simple pleasures, separate tents housed hair salons, beauty parlors, a club, bar, cabaret and game room, with an outdoor golf course. The surroundings of Persepolis looked rather bleak, so 15,000 trees, flower beds and 70,000 different birds were brought from Europe. Most of them were expected to die from the heat, but only after the celebrations were over. During this time, snakes and scorpions in the area were exterminated with harsh chemicals - any prime minister bitten by arthropods could ruin the entire celebration. Of course, all of this required an enormous amount of water. Such a party called for appropriate company. Monarchs from Bahrain, Belgium, Denmark, Norway, Nepal, and many other countries arrived with their spouses, along with heirs to the throne from Italy, Japan, and Greece, Prince Consort Philip Mountbatten of Great Britain, the Vice President of the United States, and presidents of numerous republics from Egypt to South Africa. The Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, the First Lady of the Philippines with her daughter, and Cardinal Maximilien de Furstenberg, representing the Vatican, were also present. In such a gathering, the Foreign Minister of Portugal, the Speaker of the German Parliament, and the Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan seemed almost like commoners. In all, 18 presidents and more than a dozen monarchs were present, not counting others. Some of the guests on the list had special significance. For example, Nikolai Podgorny, representing the USSR, served as a symbolic reminder to the United States: the Shah was moving closer to the Soviet Union, and the invitation to the celebration reminded the Russians of their joint projects while signaling to the Americans that they should work to maintain the Shah's favor. On the other hand, the absence of representatives from certain countries was also telling. Syria, Iraq, and Saudi Arabia were unhappy with Iran's attempts to position itself as the dominant power in the Middle East. Guests were transported from Shiraz Airport in 250 red Mercedes limousines. The celebration was grand and splendid, but it sparked immense outrage among the Shah's subjects. Due to the Shah's economic reforms, Iran was rapidly urbanizing, but the need for new housing for workers in the newly built factories was overlooked. As a result, even in the suburbs of Tehran, people lived in mud huts. In rural areas, hunger was not widespread, but it was not uncommon. To avoid the &quot;love&quot; of the people and to protect the guests, all necessary security measures were taken. The road from Shiraz and the glamping site were heavily guarded - so much so that even the King of Denmark was stopped at a checkpoint. National borders were sealed. Universities were temporarily closed and all suspicious persons were pre-emptively arrested as a precaution. The celebration itself began on October 12, 1971, in Pasargadae, the first ancient capital of Persia. Shah Reza delivered an impassioned speech at the mausoleum of King Cyrus, accompanied by the sound of drums, promising to preserve and enhance his legacy. At the end of the speech, something unscripted but noticed by all occurred - a breeze blew, lifting the sand over the tomb during the moment of silence in memory of Cyrus. Then the main event began: guests arrived in Shiraz. The highway was illuminated by giant oil torches. Inside the tents, a surprise awaited each guest - their own portraits, intricately woven into tapestries, along with appetizers and alcohol. The most exotic guest was undoubtedly the Emperor of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie - being a widower, he arrived without a wife but with his dog, whose collar was adorned with diamonds. The dog, therefore, was dressed more lavishly than many first ladies. On October 14, a grand banquet was held. Six hundred guests indulged in the festivities, sparing no luxury. After dinner, the guests made their way to the ancient ruins, where they were treated to a sound and light show, followed by a grand fireworks display. While sound and light shows are not uncommon today, such entertainment was a novelty at the time. The festivities lasted as long as the guests could stand, and the next day came the main event. Amid the ruins, a grand parade took place with 1,200 participants. The ensemble was made up of soldiers from the Iranian army, representing 2,500 years of Persian history. Costumes, armor, equipment, weapons, and jewelry were recreated with obsessive precision based on frescoes, archaeological findings, and historical descriptions. The orchestra played on instruments specially reconstructed for the occasion. The parade formations included processions on horseback, camels, chariots, life-size ships, and even a reconstructed siege tower dragged along. The entire event was broadcast live on television to both Iran and the world. That evening, guests dined again, this time enjoying traditional Iranian cuisine. Many left for Shiraz, while others went to an after-party in Tehran. There, the Shah inaugurated a magnificent tower, now known as the Azadi Tower. This structure, visible to those arriving in Tehran from the airport, stands 45 meters tall, is made of white marble, and houses a museum inside, though its main purpose is to impress. The Shah then visited his father's mausoleum, marking the end of the celebration. The entire event was exceptionally impressive. However, reactions varied greatly. Abroad, there were applause and admiration. But in Iran, people were furious. The public could not fathom how such opulent feasting was possible when so many went hungry. Adding to the outrage was the near-total absence of ordinary Iranians at the celebration, aside from the parade participants. To the average Iranian, the guests' behavior appeared indecent - in a deeply religious Muslim society, the abundance of wine was scandalous, not to mention the behavior of some women. Moreover, the party was extravagantly expensive. Officially, the Shah reported a relatively modest cost of $17 million, but estimates in the press continued to rise until they reached hundreds of millions. Domestically, Shah Reza faced an overwhelming backlash. Ayatollah Khomeini relentlessly denounced him, condemning the event as a &quot;satanic festival,&quot; and many Iranians agreed. A few years later, the Islamic Revolution ended the Iranian monarchy. While it is debatable whether the new Iran is better than the old, it is not difficult to understand why the old regime fell. The Golden City of Persepolis was destroyed. The ruins themselves remain one of Iran's main attractions, but the only remnants of the festive city are metal frames - monuments in their own right to that era.