Translator: Joseph Geni Hi. My name is Cameron Russell, and for the last little while, Actually, for 10 years. And I feel like there's an uncomfortable tension because I should not have worn this dress. (Laughter) So luckily, I brought an outfit change. This is the first outfit change so you guys are pretty lucky If some of the women were you don't have to tell me now, (Laughter) I'd also note that I'm quite privileged to be able to transform in a very brief 10 seconds. Not everybody gets to do that. These heels are very uncomfortable, The worst part is putting because that's when so don't do anything All right. So, why did I do that? That was awkward. (Laughter) Well -- (Laughter) Hopefully not as awkward as that picture. Image is powerful, but also, image is superficial. I just totally transformed And in this picture, I had actually never had I was totally uncomfortable, and the photographer and put my hand in that guy's hair. And of course, barring surgery, or the fake tan that I got there's very little that we can do and how we look, though it is has a huge impact on our lives. So today, for me, being And I am on this stage I am on this stage because and in my industry, I'm going to answer the questions but with an honest twist. So the first question is, I always just say, &quot;Oh, I was scouted,&quot; but that means nothing. The real way that I became a model is I won a genetic lottery, and maybe you're wondering Well, for the past few centuries we have defined beauty and symmetry that we're biologically but also as tall, slender figures, and femininity and white skin. And this is a legacy and it's a legacy And I know there are who are skeptical at this point, and maybe there are &quot;Wait. Naomi. Tyra. Joan Smalls. Liu Wen.&quot; And first, I commend you on your model (Laughter) But unfortunately, a very inspired NYU Ph.D. student counted all the models on the runway, and of the 677 models that were hired, only 27, or less than four percent, The next question people always ask is, &quot;Can I be a model when I grow up?&quot; And the first answer is, &quot;I don't know, But the second answer, and what I really want to say &quot;Why? You know? You can be anything. You could be the President or the inventor of the next Internet, or a ninja cardiothoracic surgeon poet, which would be awesome, (Laughter) If, after this amazing list, &quot;No, no, Cameron, I want to be a model,&quot; well, then I say, &quot;Be my boss.&quot; Because I'm not in charge of anything, and you could be the editor in chief or the CEO of H&amp;M, Saying that you want to be is akin to saying that you want to win It's out of your control, and it's not a career path. I will demonstrate for you now because unlike cardiothoracic surgeons, it can just be distilled right now. So, if the photographer is right there, the light is right there, like a nice HMI, and the client says, this leg goes first, nice and long, the head is at three quarters, just do that, and then you look back 300, 400, 500 times. (Laughter) It will look something like this. (Laughter) Hopefully less awkward That was -- I don't know Unfortunately, and you have a resume you can't say anything anymore, so if you say you want to be but your resume reads, people give you a funny look. The next question is, And yeah, they pretty much but that is only a small component This picture is the very first and it's also the very first time and I didn't even have my period yet. I know we're getting personal, This is what I looked like with my grandma Here's me on the same day as this shoot. My friend got to come. Here's me at a slumber party Here's me on the soccer team And here's me today. And I hope what you're seeing is that these pictures They are constructions, and they are constructions by hairstylists and makeup artists and all of their assistants and they build this. That's not me. Okay, so the next question &quot;Do you get free stuff?&quot; (Laughter) I do have too many 8-inch heels except for earlier, but the free stuff that I get and that's what we don't like I grew up in Cambridge, and one time I went into a store and they gave me the dress for free. When I was a teenager, who was an awful driver we got pulled over, and all it took was a &quot;Sorry, officer,&quot; And I got these free things not who I am, and there are for how they look and not who they are. I live in New York, and last year, of the 140,000 teenagers 86% of them were black and Latino, And there are only 177,000 so for them, it's not a question but &quot;How many times will I get stopped? When I was researching this talk, I found out that of the 13-year-old girls 53% don't like their bodies, and that number goes to 78% So, the last question people ask me is, &quot;What is it like to be a model?&quot; And I think the answer &quot;If you are a little bit skinnier you will be so happy and fabulous.&quot; And when we're backstage, we give an answer We say, &quot;It's really amazing to travel, with creative, inspired, And those things are true, because the thing that I have never said on camera, is, &quot;I am insecure.&quot; And I'm insecure because I have to think And if you ever are wondering, &quot;If I have thinner thighs you just need to meet a group of models, because they have the thinnest thighs, and they're the most physically When I was writing this talk, I found it very difficult because on the one hand, I felt very uncomfortable &quot;Look I've received all these benefits and it also felt really uncomfortable &quot;and it doesn't always make me happy.&quot; But mostly it was difficult to unpack when I am one But I'm also happy and I think that it's great before 10 or 20 or 30 years had passed because maybe then I wouldn't tell or maybe I wouldn't tell the story which seems so important right now. If there's a takeaway to this talk, I hope it's that we all feel the power of image and our perceived failures. Thank you. (Applause)