Life on Mars has captured our imagination what life would be like there even before So, today we will tackle that topic. We spent most of the Spring in the Upward be able to get into space faster, cheaper, Once you get up there though the question Now the usual answer is that you can colonize this series. Yet, it often seems like discussions of this to get there or some small colony of five Which isn't much of colony honestly, or planet with a population of millions or billions I do want to spend some time on that phase ignored. So we'll discuss true terraforming but save episode on Colonizing Venus. Similarly, we often talk about the role of it will likely play a big role in exploring look at that for Colonizing Titan, after Venus. Connecting this episode to those two and others like trade for networking these places to A colony, besides just serving as more living it offers and others it needs. We always want any given colony to be as self-supporting help to have trade to both optimize production A common feature in discussions of extraterrestrial Earth versus Mars, and we'll talk about series. Now you don't have to have seen any of the but it is a bit of a sequel to the Upward of Industrializing the Moon and Asteroid Mining if you haven't seen them yet, you may wish In any event, we are not interested in how people there are like, so we are going to One or more of the systems discussed in the got some orbital habitats around Earth and In orbit around the Moon we have Borman station, ship to orbit the moon back in 1968. We'll assume the main base down on the Moon Earth is Gagarin Station. We'll be spending a fair amount of time off point to the solar system, so let me add Martian gravity. This was done for two reasons. First, it gives folks going back and forth to get used to the gravity at their destination; of Martian Gravity on people, as well as construction A ship going straight from Earth or Gagarin that began at Earth gravity and spun down will say most transit to Mars goes between Leaving from the Moon to Mars has some advantages, that you can bring fuel and raw materials well, rather than Earth. Plus, starting a major base on the Moon let's people far further away from potential help. Now we are going to assume we are not sending for more energy intensive approaches, but solar system you do probably want to use these These can take years however, so it's great When our ship leaves Borman station, it will a trip of several weeks to Mars, which already thousand people each. This ship is the first of many planned ones on Mars. This ship will be carrying it, and indeed hub for Mars. As we've discussed before, it's easier one on the Moon can be done with conventional a good deal easier than Earth. We'll leave it academic if anyone has managed they have an Orbital Ring instead, but we for Mars and that it got manufactured down As mentioned, part of Borman Station's purpose Gravity in the long term, and it got started We don't know if 38% of normal gravity is term but for today we will assume the answer and exercise. Should that turn out not to be true, I think colony of Earth, or rather, you'd probably that considered themselves Martian, but the spent time down on working there at mining Sort of a reverse of the concept of a classic and many go to work in the sea, often for work on the planet but everyone lives in orbit. So for the last few decades since men first this notion and concluded that indeed, this they don't need to use mixed spin and normal we've discussed before, or cyborg people Healthy exercise and some supplements are They've also got an orbital ring complete carbon nanotubes to allow for a decently strong gravity. With this in mind, the drive to colonize Mars there for tourism, at least marginally economical. Most people couldn't afford it and most thousands of folks can and do want to visit, there leaving monthly with a couple hundred When this ship arrives though it is going areostationary orbit since it is Mars not discussion of any orbit around any planet spot. In our case, that will be 17,000 kilometers Earth. And they will hovering just over Pavonis Mons, than Mount Everest and quite close to the Humanity's first Martian base was near there We will name the ship turning space station The other two settlements are close by, a mountain in the solar system, and the other of the largest and longest canyon systems Now by default you want to have a space elevator place Port Tharsis right over the Martian Elevators Episode, you can connect multiple elsewhere than the equator, balancing out so long as at least one of those connects So while a single space elevator just south dropping three tethers down, then moving their to Pavonis, and to Marineris canyon settlements. So they have three, which provides plenty space and vice-versa. This is handy because while Pavonis is the at Olympus and Marineris prefer to keep their Pavonis was the nominal planetary capital. There's been quite a lot of arguing about The original Mars colony was under the United for a message to get to Earth and back with there who oversees things and is at Pavonis. With all the new colonists arriving folks permanent and democrat and independent. Back when it's just a few hundred people phone home for everything and everyone was This is changing. As we step out of the first landing car arriving celebrating their first cafe being opened, travelers, we are reminded of their own backgrounds. Having spent many weeks traveling with them, experts. This is no longer a mission where the best for stability. One of our companions is the new magistrate magistrate who dealt with minor misdemeanors any felonies, so he spent most of his time with issues back home. Divorces, trusts, wills, etc. In a colony of several thousand it is a rare member back on Earth die or had some sort Mars, the planet named for the God of War a barroom brawl off at Olympus over independence, will be remaining in Pavonis, he is heading The original colonists didn't have a lot among them, there's a lot of things they more than enough specialists from a lot of All of that is going to have to change as permanent colony. But what about Pavonis? What is this settlement like? As a new colonist looking around, we do see we'd expect for a town of a few thousand. But beyond those the view, while breathtaking, Most of the settlement is in caves and lavatubes Those domes are just for hydroponics. Going inside, it seems a bit dreary even, is to come to Mars. Oh sure, the first few thousand folks who of coming here. People go to Mount Everest or Antarctica just there. In the short term that's not too big a problem, wanted to come to Mars that would still be population, and of course once there they'll will always be more people wanting to come And yet, what is the appeal? What drove colonization on Earth? It's very unlikely many folks would be sent to flee religious persecution as was the case There's no luxury crops like sugar or tobacco Mars has plenty of iron, but so does Earth It is a breathtaking place to vacation, low on Earth and vast canyon systems too, and visit, subsidizing the colony, and decide Its major export right now is curiosity, prestige, from Earth, for now, but Earth doesn't particularly Folks sitting around the new Pavonis Cafe of stuff, but they mostly can only see things and right now the only other planet besides which has a small scientific outpost floating There are also a few experimental mining operations poking around the planets and moons of the Trade, they think, has to wait on the rest worry there might be a catch-22 in there, seems to revolve around other places already Of course they talk about terraforming Mars and lava tubes and domes, and some say that but never, that there is no advantage or purpose and oceans. That they should keep on just making new domes giant mountain they live in into one big arcology, into a skyscraper. The folks over at Marineris feel a bit differently We could, of course, take the elevator back but instead we will be taking a ground vehicle. The lack of any serious atmosphere makes flight high-speed rail is cheaper since there's That's going to be a while because while kilometers of track between Olympus, Pavonis, In some ways it is easier than on Earth, low and you can get away with much sharper inclines only got a population of thousands, not millions, of your population for just basic food and Oxygen is plentiful enough, but it all has rock. Nitrogen for plants is hard to find, and every needs a dome over it first, or artificial or cave. You can't plant your crops in raw Martian or in soil made by taking that dirt and processing first. The notion of transforming Mars into an Earth-like It's not worth doing, says the driver, going the future is in robust para-terraforming. That's where you just slowly cover an entire the local soil out. Glass above, concrete below, and you just They plan to eventually dome over the entire The drive there is slow going, part of why no gas station on Mars and no air for them Everything is electric and battery operated. They don't really have the manpower for said no to shipping those in. What they're really hoping for back at Pavonis from back on Earth. They're big, heavy, and getting one to Mars need above ground domes anymore. They could do all their growing in vast lavatubes then. Valles Marineris is stunning in scope. It's not that it is 4000 kilometers long, its widest, over 200 kilometers. It's almost incomprehensible, even in low that, let alone a dome. Fortunately our real destination is Noctis chasms on the western edge of Valles Marineris It begins just a few hundred kilometers southeast chasms are filled with an icy fog. This pilot project for terraforming has selected canyons, and they are busy walling up the and pump in water from the ice in the area It's stunning to take in the scope of this and you are already wondering about cracks to deal with them, let alone how they plan of the main Valles Marineris chasms. As we settle in we start seeing four distinct Here in Marineris, the interest is all in whole planet. And the focus is on how to manufacture them and meteor strikes. Grids of radar and lasers to shoot down incoming the edges to help minimize erosion damage Individual smaller domes connected with airlocks liquid patches that could be rapidly sprayed They envision not so much a Green Mars as is sometimes called. They point out that it is far easier to get atmosphere, when it is only maybe a hundred If you want to have normal air pressure just you need to have a lot of air piled on top On Earth, every square inch of surface has miles, or 10,000 kilograms per square meter. On Mars, because of the lower gravity, you have normal air pressure. That means your atmosphere has to go up higher. On Earth, at the top of Mount Everest, it's out a lot by that height, and the pressure If we could transport Olympus Mons back to density wouldn't even be a tenth of what Conveniently on Mars, since the atmosphere still be able to breath all the way at the down at the bottom of those chasms, where they'd all be full of water anyway. That's what the folks at Olympus Mons want, They want to terraform the whole planet, so around you or a glass dome above you. We're curious about them, though the folks and more than a bit batty, but we decide to To do so we first have to go back to Pavonis, One of them is simply the pessimism camp. They think this whole idea was a mistake and They are going home when the next colony ship on those for a return trip, and they're Tharsis instead. They're basically loitering around Pavonis They're still pro-space expansion, they but they're thinking planets and moons besides should stick to arcologies on Earth or perhaps That's our fourth camp too basically. They like the idea of having settlements down easy access back to orbit with the elevators a few settlements planetside but do most of all the ones being built around Earth these about comfort for the folks who need to be Yes robots would be handy but they still need just easier to use a person. But they want nice, contained, truly Earth-like and agriculture can be done on those in orbit. There's no need to dome over the whole planet, Just a few places here and there for mineral to visit of course. Indeed, better to leave the planet mostly They figure no tourist is going to want to terrain. They're all for a few of these projects, habitats underground or in the mountain caverns, mostly happen in orbit. They are somewhat open to the notion of terraforming they see it, they first need to get their This way, they can eventually pay for the too, they'd need to bring in from other So we set out on the much longer trek to Olympus because they have set themselves up all over want to see Mars from the peak of the tallest It is no surprise that there is a bar up there when we first arrived. We run into our friend, the magistrate there, He informs us that this is not the home of want to terraform Mars completely, but rather One group does want to terraform Mars, while plants on Mars. And indeed, that's split into two subgroups One wants to set up an ecology where everything an atmosphere, less nitrogen than Earth too, Plants genetically engineered to use the native People engineered to live on thinner air and The other group wants to go completely native: on Mars as-is; people cyborged up to walk to breathe and are safe from radiation concerns Why, they say, should we put all the effort and earth life, or even meet halfway in the can live here? The magistrate seems to have been converted. There's so many problems with terraforming The planet has virtually no air but when the blackening the sky for days or even weeks and plants need supplemental lighting. If you get oceans and moisture in there, that to lots of water is likely to result in huge plants and roots to hold them down. It will never have enough gravity to be like the belt and every moon around Jupiter on that much, and it would be kind of wasteful. But even ignoring the gravity, we'd need Sure there's enough oxygen, oxygen is plentiful But not nitrogen. The only abundant supplies for that besides Sun itself. But good luck lifting that nitrogen off of He points out that it isn't like moving atmospheres and those are pretty heavy. Earth's atmosphere is 5 billion megatons, ships, even huge oil tankers, a single megaton If one arrived carrying a megaton of nitrogen to bring in enough nitrogen, and without a away before we finished. No one wants to wait a hundred million years, ships arriving not every day but at least And until near the end, there's not much through you can start adding water and possibly cycles going. During that whole time, inhabiting the planet and you'd have to worry about those being gaining oceans and atmosphere. To keep that atmosphere there, we'll also in solar power to run electromagnets and create Mars is cold and far from the sun too, so mirrors to bring in some more light. Those are both fairly hard tasks, though both that nitrogen and probably water too. This is not a terraforming episode, we did concepts again in the next episode on Venus, a planet fundamentally alters it. It's not the existing one just turning blue going to cease to exist as sea rises and land No, this episode is about colonizing Mars There's the terraforming route, make the we discussed in that terraforming episode far you are willing to go, up to and include length or even moving the thing to be closer If you've got the will to do it, and the degree you see fit. But it requires orders of magnitude more effort it's less finding a cave to live in then you can drill a cave into it. Possible but probably not ideal. Bioforming is an option, but again it comes in a different direction. You might be able to limit yourself to fairly and meet halfway in-between, terraforming that path, there is the question as to why And how far is too far? And since the path for meeting in the middle that likely to end up as a sliding standard If you are modifying people to the point that why not in no air? And why not just go the full cyborg route In that context why do you even need planets, why even a body at all, in favor of a digital on any planet including surreal landscapes And that is an option too. So is the option of making Martian mean folks down to work the mines or visit the place. The slow disassembly of the planet to construct I don't know which is best, I guess that down the road. If I had to guess though I would wager on There's a mistake in thinking for instance planet or not at all. As an example, the mountains, Pavonis and caldera, and when you think of things like of bowl with a rim around it. There's nothing stopping you from extending encircling a place only 10 or 20 kilometers That sounds like an insane project, but it an area or manufacturing a rotating habitat. You could then fill just that area with air the rest of the planet, so you could build fill it with air and water, and just keep that also slowly terraforms other areas if A similar concept is building up your atmosphere with new air and not worrying about what gets You don't necessarily need a full Earth People can survive for short periods in much might do just fine in it even without modification, you a shield against most meteors. People might get used to wearing masks when be too common if they just need to repair Indeed since those various crack and spots native environment and the artificial one, limited bioforming, the methods where you Heck, there is even a chance we might find can't rule it out yet. That of course raises the issue of whether already has life on it, and if so, do simple But also, if we did find life there, it might Odds are there are a lot more marginal planets and being able to use those, or some modified might make them very valuable indeed. I don't know what the future of Mars holds, on our colony in the year 3000, I would expect Yes some Great Walls of Mars encircling some Yes giant domes over chasms, with protection Yes smaller domes, yes big underground cities power. Yes some people who have modified themselves or to meet it halfway in between. And yes, a swarm of rotating habitats above, materials for export and handle imports of Each one generating a magnetic field for its shield for the planet below. Indeed each with its own defense grid to shoot and orbital mirrors that bring in more light. They might eventually have to choose to terraform even to disassemble the planet for materials But for a very long time they could choose the whole spectrum of options, if and until And as I often say when it comes to colonies, for sure which options are best, what with anyway, it's for the folks who live there that decision and they can change it down They may be so removed from us by then that We'll discuss making planets more Earth-like Venus next month, but next week we will be Rare Earth Hypothesis notions that Earth-like especially human level intelligence, might planets, in our close out episode of the Fermi For alerts when those and other episodes come If you enjoyed this episode, hit the like Until next time, thanks for watching, and