Chinese soldiers preparing This is what Beijing wants to show With each military drill, around Taiwan. China has a clear goal: to gain China will surely be reunified. Are you willing to get involved if it comes to that? Yes. That's the commitment we made. The United States is building up its And is practicing how to sink We're not going to come Wait for the unification to Peacefully, I hope. Not peacefully, I dread. But why are these two superpowers What's in it for China and the U.S.? And how do people It's Taiwan's location that makes Taiwan has 23 million and its main island lies only These tiny islands right under Taiwanese control. And Chinese military drills are getting bigger and more frequent. In recent videos released by China's Beijing has threatened to It sees Taiwan as part of its to use force, if necessary, We'll talk more about the history For now, you need to know there was a civil war in China The Communists won and took control And the Nationalists fled to Taiwan. That laid the groundwork The U.S. has an ambiguous policy Since the late 1970s, as the only legitimate But it has informal ties as the island's protector. Okay. Let's go back to the map and China can't quit Taiwan. In some ways, Taiwan's strategic around the island. To the west, It's a key trade route and also for everybody else. Almost all the world's biggest To the north, the Miyako Strait. It runs between Taiwan And in the south, the Bashi Strait. It runs between Taiwan For China, these two straits are key strategic gateways Taiwan is in the middle which is very important. This is Victor Gao. He is a former Chinese diplomat the Center for China and Globalization, is close to the Chinese Communist Party. Taiwan Island faces the Pacific by a foreign country, for example, of the Chinese coastline and directly to the Pacific Ocean. The U.S. says it has no troops but the island plays To understand why, let's look Here are some of China's main And the U.S. has some of its key bases Japan, and the Philippines. If you connect the dots, Taiwan sits at the heart the 'first island chain'. David Sacks is an expert a think-tank in New York City. In the past, he worked which serves as the de facto If you look at these are all formal treaty allies close partners, in the case of Taiwan. And with that the way it is, the to China's shores, protect its allies Conversely, it's very difficult for outside of the first island chain physically or our interests To strengthen this 'island chain', military cooperation with Japan which are also wary of what they see For example, just last year the in the north of the Philippines. Right next to the Bashi Strait, to the Pacific Ocean we mentioned. Here you can see American exercises in the waters nearby They even sank an old Chinese-built used in the past: a clear message to Beijing. And obviously, China is not happy Come on! We are not living We are not living Using this outmoded way set up a chain to block, for example, the Pacific Ocean, is ludicrous. Beijing is rapidly modernizing its navy, break through the chain of U.S. allies. For example, Here it is on sea trials It's China's third aircraft carrier in the Chinese navy. The number one objective here out of the region during a conflict. So, what we call 'anti-access/area from being able to defend So to sum up: to both sides as they try to gain But the rivalry is also about money. Big money. Economically, the small island for both China and the U.S. - even though Taiwan as a country. Both China and the U.S. have And much of that business comes TSMC - Taiwan Semiconductor It produces microchips. Taiwan makes 90 % of the Both the U.S. and China And so is everybody else. There's a good chance TSMC's that you're using to watch They are in new cars, fridges, and fighter jets. Everywhere. They're needed to develop And U.S. leaders worry that losing permanently shift economic tides We don't assume that a region to U.S. trade and investment. I think that China They want the United States to with raw materials that are turned and then sold all over the world. And there isn't really a role other industrialized countries in that. The Chinese economy is already larger if we use purchasing power parity. China produced more The Americans probably produced So why should anyone believe, of picking a fight with China? No, there is no benefit. China does not look or commercial perspective. So why is Taiwan so important To understand, let's dive China lost control over Taiwan the 'Century of Humiliation' - these caricatures of China by various foreign powers From the mid-19th China was plagued by invasions This is important, of humiliation still plays a big role In 1895, Japan took Taiwan from China After World War II, the Allies forced But at the time, of a civil war: The government of the Republic of China, or ROC, was led by Nationalists Mao Zedong led Communist forces In 1949, the victorious Communists established the People's Republic The defeated government of That's why there are two governments one on the mainland, the People's And on Taiwan, The PRC government in Beijing sees and says there is only one China. Even though they have never actually Most of the world accepts this They don't recognize Taiwan Wait. So why is the U.S. There is also a history to that. After the Civil War, the Nationalist government in Taiwan the Communist government on the mainland. U.S. soldiers were even stationed in The change came in the 1970s. The U.S. sought closer relations That meant closing the U.S. embassy Still, informal ties persisted, And the U.S. still guarantees to sell But they have on whether they would defend Taiwan. It's meant to prevent China Taiwan from declaring independence. But that strange limbo has been And it's created realities Taiwan developed from into one of the strongest democracies There are elections, a free press, and civil liberties. Taiwan was first in Asia to legalize This year a progressive party a third term, vowing to DW's Taiwan correspondent of things on the ground. Here in Taiwan, from what you might read The tension has become part One key reason is that people the threat of the Chinese The majority of the Taiwanese the status quo with China, but how to If China wants to bully us, at least They are our friends. I've always been But we have no choice, if we can't It's tricky. We should have a friendly It's always been like this. Ever since the founding of the country, in this drama. But one thing is clear Taiwan's voice is usually drowned out. Amid the U.S.-China rivalry, many feel in the game, and the island should have the right But there is one more factor Taiwan represents something Taiwan has embraced the U.S. democracy and capitalism. China is a one-party system And a major Chinese Communist Party Remember the Century of Humiliation Well Chinese President Xi Jinping the fold as an important step This is part of the a revival of the Chinese nation With Xi Jinping, I think, Xi Jinping has clearly put himself world historic importance. He views himself in a very to Vladimir Putin, that he's He's transformative. No one, no country, no single the peaceful reunification of China reunification of China. So, we should all call on the United But for the U.S., supporting key alliances in the region If China were to invade and that democracy extinguished, to democracies around the world. You would have deep questions Japan, and the Philippines the United States for their security. Because of where Taiwan is and nor the U.S. isable back down. And the rest of us are stuck watching