In the late 1960s Canada was shopping for What they got was sleek looking, highly maneuverable, to ground punch. It would represent a shift in mindset away to a focus on supporting peacekeeping operations It was the Canadair CF-5 Freedom Fighter, last of a long line military aircraft to be The Northrop Corporation of Hawthorne, California It was designed from the outset as a highly low-cost, high-reliability fighter. Its engineers were trying to reverse the trend sophisticated, high technology designs with The little fighter showed promise when it of 1959. It was designed in two models, a two-seat Both were marketed to the American Air Force the T-38 Talon, was taken on in strength. The Americans had little interest in the low fighter, although they did operate a small squadron called the Scoshi Tigers. There the little fighter proved its accuracy, It was recommended that it be made available the Military Assistance Program. Sales or donations through this program included Ethiopia; and Vietnam. It was during this flurry of sales that Canada At the time Canada had an extensive and high to the other countries that operated the little Many wondered what motivated Canada to move The acquisition of the CF-5 represents the air power from a large offensive force to This represents a shift in mindset away from a focus on supporting peacekeeping operations The evolution of air power followed the evolution In the 1950s Canada committed itself to the The idea was that peace in Europe meant security In addition to army units, the RCAF established advanced dog fighters available, the Canadair all weather interceptor. This was Canada's prestigious big air force. The RCAF wanted to maintain their capabilities became available or could be developed. This led to the Avro Arrow project, but that's One name comes up again and again when it He was a former Northrop engineer turned career National Defence in the Liberal cabinet of He had previously been a vocal critic of the they took power. That government had cancelled the Arrow and by acquiring the CF-104 and CF-101. Hellyer's current government then made a and put them into service. These decisions went completely against his be used. Hellyer was a believer in the air force as by the 1964 Defense "white paper" report. Their goal was to better align the RCAF's and the economic realities of the 1960's. The reports overthrew the recent acquisitions It outlined that the CF-104 squadrons in Europe would be left to diminish through attrition. Their offensive tactical nuclear-weapons, possible. CF-101 squadrons in Canada would remain in The Bomarc squadrons would remain as long The report also heavily emphasised the mobile This involved concentrating on building up of a high performance aircraft capable of of the Canadian Army. That same aircraft would eventually be responsible Hellyer was committed to eliminating Canada's forces that included a strategic sea and airlift maximum flexibility and mobility." As a first step towards this goal, Hellyer their obsolete C-119 Boxcar transports and transports. Hellyer was concerned that RCAF officials aircraft at the expense of strategic air mobility. Case in-point was the RCAF's push to acquire II. It was first considered as the replacement favor of developing the CF-105 Arrow. After the cancellation of the Arrow and the bomber and the CF-101 Voodoo as a long-range for a shiny new fighter. The RCAF still preferred the F4C Phantom II Its multi-role capabilities made it a successor role, and the CF-104 Starfighter in the nuclear-strike The high performance of the F-4 is without to Canadian procurement officials. They were focused on ensuring that as much Luckily at the same time, the British navy defence fighter for their aircraft carriers contract with Canada. This deal would see Canada produce the airframes, England. However even with domestic production the The RCAF was committed to procuring 9 de Havilland support the UN mission in the Congo. This in addition to paying off their new fighter, The new fighter was now supposed to supplement Priorities for the new fighter would be air-superiority, weapons, and reconnaissance. There were many different aircraft competing Under consideration were the McDonnell Douglas Vought A-7A Corsair, and the Northrop F-5 The Canadian Navy was also interested in the It would restart their carrier-ng off their dried up any funding for the Phantom. If the RCAF was going to restart their carrier-borne of the short-lived Banshees in 1962. The competition ended in 1965 with the recommendation Interestingly the only entry that was categorically intended missions was Northrop's F-5. In fact the A-4, A-6 and A-7 were all operational was rejected for service by all three of them. The selection criteria were changed, at Hellyer's to make the F-5 seem more competitive. The new criteria reduced the need for rapid be used in the low-intensity areas, such as of central europe, and drastically reduced It was also outlined that the potential areas to support United Nations missions, not necessarily These changes were clearly made to address that these new criteria didn't reflect the It was unsuitable for the tactical environment of meeting the even lower combat requirements Emphasis was then placed on the numbers of of 100 units. This quickly turned the inexpensive F-5 into Even though Hellyer himself initially called guns hung on it", he got his wish and the fighter, and Canadair was selected to build A quick note about the air superiority aspect. The CF-5 is often confused with the more advanced The CF-5 was a clean air day fighter. It had no radar or maneuvering flaps, and role despite its nimbleness and ability to It could only engage in within-visual-range and lower combat ceiling than the aging MiG It would not be able to compete with the ubiquitous of the air forces the CF-5 could be up against. Only well after the CF-5 production line closed, be able to take on the MiG 21 in combat. The contract to build the CF-5 called for that only 90 could be built for the allocated In an attempt to lower cost, the F-5A's full inertial navigation system were deleted. This allowed for an additional 25 to be produced, However this also further degraded the potential short ranged support missions. Some other, more positive, changes were also service. A removable refueling probe was added to the This allowed the tiny fighter to extend its At the time of its introduction Canada didn't This set off a scramble to purge the CC-106 powered CC-137 Husky in 1972. To address the need for battlefield mobility. A two position nose gear was added. When extended it could reduce takeoff distance Auxiliary louvered air intake doors were added airflow during takeoff. It was also fitted with retractable air intake windshield for added protection against bird The CF-5 could also provide 87% more electrical In the reconnaissance role, the CF-5 was fitted This was done because its structure was too The nose cone allowed it to carry three 70-mm configuration or 2x 20 mm Pontiac M39A2 cannons The pods could be removed and changed quickly 50 reconnaissance nose cones were produced. Domestic production was a critical aspect To this end, Orenda Engines would license J85-15 engine, the same kind used in the Tutor These engines put out a combined 38Kn of thrust up to its top speed of Mach 1.27, in a clean kms. The CF-5 was 14.4m long, 4m tall at the tail, It had a range of 314kms with tip tanks, although for more external fuel tanks. The CF-5 was built in 4 models. Two for Canada and two for the Netherlands. The CF-5A was a single seat tactical fighter. 89 were built. The CF-5D was a two-seat trainer. 46 were built. The main difference between the A and D models of the gun/reconnaissance nose cone, and a The Netherlands contracted Canada to build It was originally planned that they would the plan fell through. The NF-5A and NF-5B were the Netherlandic They were identical to the Canadian versions improved low-speed maneuverability, and they tanks. 105 were built in total. The first CF-5 was rolled out on February It was flown from Cartierville to Edwards Its first flight was there on May 6th 1968. The first two seat variant flew on August By the end of 1968 there were 10 CF-5s in By March of the following year there were per month. The official designation of the new fighter always went by its popular name, the CF-5. Around the same time as the CF-5 was being command was being introduced. In response to the 1964 White paper and as Canada's military, Hellyer introduced his All three service branches would be combined Armed Forces. This was a deeply unpopular move. It was done to save money and streamline the to have failed at both of these points. By the end of 1968 the process was complete The initial CF-5 deliveries were to the Aerospace Lake, Alberta for evaluation and training. Shortly after that, the Liberal government As part of their cost cutting strategy, funding Now instead of 4 CF-5 squadrons, there would This resulted in a reduction in the number to just 54. Despite this, Canadair would complete their ended up being put directly into storage. These unused CF-5s would be cycled through on their airframes low. The CF-5 was first introduced to 434 &quot;Bluenose&quot; They completed their initial training in the in November 1968 were they took up the role The second squadron, 433 &quot;Porcupine&quot; formed first CF-5s in August 1969. Both squadrons were moved to their permanent training. In December 1970, 419 "Moose" squadron Training Squadron in Cold Lake, Alberta. They took over from 434 squadron in the training Initially the role of the CF-5 was to act in the case of a Soviet invasion there. The first European deployment with the aid The CF-5s involved in this role routinely cluster bombs, and American Mk 20 Rockeye Although capable of deploying them, they almost favouring range extending tip tanks. The last CF-5 was completed and entered storage domestic production of military aircraft for In 1982 the Canadian Armed Forces finally long, a truly multi-role high-tech fighter, With the introduction of the new type, the It was withdrawn from any kind of combat role sent into storage. 433 Squadron converted to the CF-18 in January year. Now only 419 Squadron would operate the CF-5 They provided advanced training as a lead-in adversary aircraft. The small fighters were hard to see and provided In order to fulfill its new role as a lead-in starting in 1988. In the first phase, 23 CF-5As and 33 CF-5Ds Winnipeg, Manitoba. The upgrades included reskinning the wings new undercarriage, reinforced tunnel brackets, a radar altimeter, and an aluminum longeron These upgrades would allow for another 4000 The second phase of upgrades began in 1990. The CAF was looking to use the CF-5 as an a significant avionics upgrade. 11 CF-5As and 33 CF-5Ds were to be installed inertial navigation system, an air data computer, databus. The first upgraded CF-5 took its maiden flight While the remaining CF-5s were being upgraded, In 1995 the Department of National Defence This resulted in a significant portion of Fearing more cuts and wanting to maintain decided to halt the CF-5s upgrade program service. Up to this point 37 CF-5s had been fully upgraded In June of 1995, 419 Squadron was disbanded. Conversion training for the CF-18s was left Alberta. All the remaining CF-5 airframes were put sales to foreign customers or used for maintenance Canada tried to sell much of their CF-5 fleet the surplus of airframes the CAF was left The first set of sales was to Venezuela in A total of 16 CF-5As and 4 CF-5Ds were delivered. The proceeds of this sale enabled the CAF own use. Venezuela operated their CF-5s until 2015 The sale of CF-5s to Venezuela resulted in The Canadian government was forced to pay adding to the overall costs of the CF-5 procurement. The second major operator of the CF-5 was They purchased surplus CF-5s in 1996 after They received 10 upgraded CF-5As and 3 CF-5Ds in 2000. Bristol Aerospace continues to provide technical of the type left anywhere in the world. During its service with the Canadian armed in the loss of an airframe. 17 CF-5As and 6 CF-5Ds crashed, a loss of Tragically, 12 pilots were lost in these crashes. Despite these losses the safety record of with other types. The CF-5 was a cool looking little plane with Although Canada had not acquired the high Canadian pilots did the best they could with The real shame in this story is that the CF-5 for use by Canadian Forces. This brought an end to much of the industrial once enjoyed.