A Diabetic Mom Caught A Fever. This Is Why Her Kidneys Stopped Working. MC is a 49 year old woman, presenting to the and respiratory distress. Her son, Andrew, tells the admitting nurse over the last hour. 5 days ago, MC started to develop a sore throat game. Some of the other parents by her were coughing She was concerned that she might have caught of vitamin C. It didn't seem to work because she quickly She was getting busy at work and couldnt afford fever medicines, and took them together. She made sure to take only the recommended Overall, MC wasn't particularly healthy. She had type 2 diabetes which had been worsening controlled by the medicine metformin. As a typical person with diabetes, she also both of which were controlled by the medicine of the Brazilian Pit Viper, as that venom and in humans, we use it in a controlled fashion to control blood pressure. At one point, it did cross her mind that she her fever, but the over-the-counter drugs 4 days after taking all of her medicines, MC pain. After passing some watery movements, she thought to remedy this, she took some antidiarrheal or drink for the rest of the day, because Interestingly enough, she didn't have to The next morning MC woke up in a pool of cold She decided to try and work from home but Nothing she read made any sense. Her stomach would start cramping and she couldn't She could feel hear heart skipping. As her son Andrew came back from school in on the floor, huddled over, while clenching He calls 911 and she arrives to the emergency Given this patient's history of present but there are a few clues. Most immediately, a blood test reveals that in blood. Acid [pH in this case] is a measure of hydrogen ions in your blood. This hydrogen is what makes vinegar and lemon Cells need this hydrogen to function, but can become deformed and damaged. If the blood is just 5 times more acidic than life. And in MC, her blood is more than 5 times first clue. Humans maintain acid balance quickly through This should make sense, because both those organs You breathe air out, which has carbon dioxide, and your kidneys produce urine, which can but if MC hasn't used the bathroom since then it means that the acid has not left her body through her lungs, explaining why she's in respiratory deep and labored. But if nothing has entered her body since then where is this acid coming from? Further analysis of blood samples finds that -Osis meaning illness caused by lactic acid, famously, and wrongly, known as the cause And MC hasn't been exercising, so something wrong and because diabetes is a disease centered to yield energy which is the definition of Diabetes is a hormone disease. Insulin is that hormone. Insulin is made by the pancreas and it's released When you eat, sugars enter your blood from These sugars cant just diffuse across the in, and insulin is the hormone that enables Only once that sugar is in the cell, can it In type 1 diabetes, patients' pancreas is meaning that the sugar in their blood stays high These cells begin to waste away and eventually And before the discovery of insulin, type But there's also a type 2 diabetes where is made and released, but the cells no longer In response, the body believes it's starving so it commands that the muscles and the liver to release even more sugar into the blood. And that's sugar which will never enter the cell, because So let's go back to MC's past medical She has type 2 diabetes, so her body makes her cells largely don't respond to it. Given that shes presenting with lactic acidosis, her metabolism, then her diabetes must be But we need to go further. Sugar is stored in both the muscle and liver constantly leak out this sugar into the blood. We know she wasn't exercising, ruling out her acidosis to be her liver. Because she doesn't have a history of liver go from the stomach to the small intestines then it means that the next clue is in her medication list. Metformin is the first line pharmacologic It works by decreasing the liver's production and release That doesn't give us much information on But metformin also works in the small intestines compound called lactate, so instead of sugar acid. This lactic acid is usually broken down by liver dysfunction, then she should be breaking Yes, but lets go back to how the body maintains form of managing waste. The lungs are important because you can breathe of metabolizing sugar to energy. The gastrointestinal tract is important because that process is slow. The liver is important because it breaks down more water soluble, meaning they dissolve And because all of the body's water is processed by broken down by the liver should be going to MC's But if she hasn't produced any urine for more has kidney dysfunction due to her diabetes, acidosis must be because of her kidneys. Do you remember that blood pressure medicine, Well, enalapril is supposed to protect the This means that it relaxes the blood vessel that leads of flow, and decreasing pressure. You want this in a diabetic because excess accumulate in the kidneys and this buildup If MC's kidneys have no problem letting produced urine for the last 24 hours, then in to her kidneys. The fever medicines that MC took were aspirin, the same class called nonsteroidal antiinflammatory They relieve pain, and reduce fever, but they to the kidney. And because MC took all 3 together, while limited flow in, and a lot of flow out of metformin, which isn't metabolized by the more lactic acid and making her blood 8 times Her past medical history all point to this. The respiratory distress. The profuse sweating. The mental decline and vomiting. If this goes untreated, the proteins in her enzymes will stop functioning as she becomes The accumulation of toxic waste is a recurring of death in humans. An alcoholic can have a cirrhosed liver, or This is a time when ammonia which comes from intestines isn't processed by the liver This ammonia begins to spill into the blood of the brain causing a functional impairment In the case of suffocation from drowning or flow into the body causes hypoxemia, or a Carbon dioxide beings to build up in the blood, This lack of oxygen in the brain can force brain damage. A genetic disorder called Cystic Fibrosis in aberrant chloride transport in cells. This leads to abnormally thick mucus that This mucus accumulation causes the lungs to chronically be infected, as there's minimal flow out and in some cases it can cause pancreatic pancreas, enabling those enzymes to digest malnutrition and eventual cystic fibrosis of type 1 and type 2 together, as the pancreas' its ability to produce insulin. And because the implication of a disease centered or the lack of response to its presence, the fundamental physiologic concept that describes At this point, the easiest way to treat her to identify her acidosis. If acidemia is a measure of excess hydrogen like sodium bicarbonate, would react with She is aggressively hydrated so that her blood flow through the constricted afferent arteriole she is started on dialysis which filters the kidneys would have caught. 48 hours after presenting to the emergency to normalize. Blood pH began to rise back to normal levels, mental status, copious urination preceded Thank you to Audible for sponsoring this video, to the Shriner's Hospitals for Children Please check out Audible link in the description There's a great medical story I wanted to It's called The Butchering Art by Dr. Lindsey I met her back on Halloween of 2017, and the path towards revolutionizing surgery through surgery in almost every aspect. The Audible version is narrated by Ralph Lister, And the great thing about medicine, you can Principle that were written in 1867 and published If you don't like it you can exchange for Audible dot com slash Chubbyemu or text Chubbyemu Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.