Welcome to another restoration here on RRC, This time I have managed to unearth another long abandoned project . Its a 1973 Yamaha DT3 250 and as you can see from these images its going to take a lot of work to get it back to tip top condition , I just hope all the parts are here to be able to rebuild it as I fear getting replacement parts is going to be a nightmare. Well lets get it loaded into the van. now to owner said there should be a box of bits lying about here well we are loaded up now lets make the long journey back to the workshop so lets see what we have to be working with, we have a rusty fuel tank , rusty and leaky 2 stroke tank 1 250cc engine that's in an unknown condition rusty chain, , rusty shocks, rusty mudguard or fender if you prefer and some nice rusty tin ware now lets have a look at the front end well we have more rust, bent levers and seized cables, an ignition barrel with no key, rusty fork tubes, seized off front brake and a severely degraded tyre the rear wheel is in the same condition except with the addition of a very worn sprocket and surprisingly the exhaust seems to be in great condition for the year, so thats nice . now lets unpack the box of parts and see how much is missing. well we have a seat base in very poor condition but salvageable 1 sealed beam headlight thats broken tail light bracket missing its lens and back end fixing point kickstart lever .. that should come in handy, , and a rake of other bits and bobs we'll need but for now lets get all this stuff out on the table and start stripping the bike down to component form so with the small stuff taken care of lets break out the big boy tools for removing the suspension and engine from the frame. With the frame now stripped lets get the front end pulled apart. And just like that the DT is stripped down to almost component form, as expected from a 51 year old trail bike there is a fair amount of rust to deal with along with quite a few seized, missing and broken parts but we'll deal with that as we go along . But before that I need to move the VFR400 out of here as we don't want it getting damaged do we? ? If you haven't seen it already I have a full series documenting the restoration of this bike you can find the link up here or in the description below since the frame is to large to fit in the sand blaster its going to have to be stripped chemically and while the stripper works, I'm going to get all the other parts blasted well that's all the parts the need to be black all cleaned up so now its time to break out the powder coat So as you probably are all aware I'm a spray painter to trade and all of this powder coating is still very new to me so any tips and tricks are welcomed well that's all the parts powder coated and cured, they've turned out really nice but there's a bit more orange peel than I would ideally like to have now I'm not sure if its a problem with my setup or application technique but any advice from someone experienced with powder coat would be welcomed as I'd love to be able to get a really smooth finish in future projects. well now its time for the main event well for some of you it will be Its time to tear the engine apart and see what we are dealing with and from what I can see so far i dont think its going to be pretty in there. well as expected the combustion chamber isn't pretty dirt and carbon wise but the bore itself is in really nice condition I'd just like to say at this point on the engine teardown i wont be showing every little detail , just the big jobs as There is so much to cover in this episode It would need to be about 4 hours long to cover everything. well the cylinder is in great shape, just a de-glaze and it'll be ready for service again , the piston and rings don't look the worst but we'll know more when compared against the new parts As for the crank, it feels ok with no play, but the main bearings feel very graunchy but that's to be expected with the engine so full of mud, water and oil. It makes life so much easier having the proper flywheel pullers the clutch pack is rusted together but seems to be very little wear on it. well apart from some rusty bearing and a lot of dirt the engine doesn't seem to bad. now its time to spend a few hours at the vapor blaster getting the engine casings looking like new again. while the carb is cleaning lets cut the hubs out of the rims so that we can clean them up in the vapor blaster. now its time to press in some new wheel bearings. well the carb and all of its components are now spotlessly clean but before i can go ahead and put it all back together i need to repaint the carb body gloss black. after a quick bake in the oven at 60c for half an hour the paint is dry and ready to be handled. the mixture screw is set to roughly 1 and a half turns out for the time being. and with the fitting of the , jet needle, slide, return spring and top cap the carb is fully rebuilt and ready for action now lets get the engine back together. the first thing to do is to heat the casings up and freeze the bearings so that they fit easily with little stressing. Bearings in, now i need to let the casings cool before fitting the oil seals so its a perfect time for a quick tidy up. i don't have a seal driver big enough for these seals so I'm using the old bearing instead. again, as with the teardown I'm not showing every part of the rebuild to save a bit of time but any parts you want to see are available to watch in my many other videos on my channel home page. why do some casings always put up a fight? smooth as silk no issues there at all. and with the addition of the spark plug the engine is now complete , well apart from a new side casing which sadly i have been unable to locate thus far. now lets rebuild the rusty and very bent out of shape front forks well aswell as being bent and rusty any oil that's left in them has turned into what is essentially sludge. that's one done , now to tear the other one apart. now its back out to the vapor blaster. well thats the lowers blasted clean, and you can see from this shot just how bent the sliders are when compared to the new straight pair. the top caps will be torqued to spec once they are clamped back on the bike much better, now onto some wheel building. Maestro , cue the Ill fitting music with the wheel laced, its now time to true the rim using the truing stand as you can see here the the rim is running out in every axis. so to true the rim I need to have a starting point so I pull all the spokes down to an even level , for me I like to pull them all down until i have one thread left showing with the spokes all evenly tensioned i can increase the tension on specific spokes to make the rim pull in whatever direction i need it to to get the rim as true as possible truing done, I pull each and every spoke down to an even tension and we have one rebuilt wheel , now lets fit some fresh rubber. now its time to sort out the faded and rusty bodywork. As you can see the parts are now blasted and body worked and its now time for a coat of primer. while the primer is curing lets start rebuilding the bike can you see what silly mistake Ive made here? leave a comment below with the bike resting back on its own suspension lets get back to the bodywork. The black overspray you see here is a guide coat, when sanding it lets me see when the surface is flat and highlights any imperfections. now i need to give the spray booth a quick clean and then we can lay down some basecoat and while the paint is curing I'm going to get on with the build up. I just need to set the chain tension and we can call the rear end pretty much done well with the bars on and torqued the finishing touch of course needs to be a new set of vintage style grips. the excess grip glue is cleaned up then the grip spun a couple of times to distribute the glue evenly. At this point i want to give a massive shout out to all of my supporters over on patreon. Without their support and generosity these restorations simply wouldn't be possible so they absolutely deserve a massive thank you from myself and everyone that watches and enjoys these restorations and of course If you'd like to help me bring you bigger and better restorations then please head over to my patreon page and check it out. as is usual for a 2 stroke it takes a few kicks to draw the fuel through the carb and into the crank case. well that's it for this one and i hope you'll hit that subscribe button and join me next week when I'll be kicking off the next project.