He's a famous Italian-American mobster, gangster, real life. He is a taxi driver, a boxer, a musician - a or he is Robert De Niro. What does attract so much to his figure, his To whom does Robert owe his fame? And why does Mickey Rourke hate him? You are on the Biographer channel. Today we will talk about the rich and difficult Get comfortable, and let's get started! CHILDHOOD Manhattan borough of New York City on August He was the only child of Virginia Admiral and poetess and had Dutch, English, French His father was an abstract expressionist and He was of Irish and Italian descent. They met at Hans Hofmann's drawing class in And when the boy was two years old, the couple was gay. As a result, Robert De Niro Jr. was raised Little Italy neighbors of Manhattan. At a late age, Robert recalled the divorce out: Inset quote: "I was not aware, much, of I wish we had spoken about it much more. My mother didn't want to talk about things you're a certain age." (Robert De Niro) with De Niro during his childhood, but the He met street children and had many friends great disapproval. They nicknamed him &quot;Bobby Milk&quot; because of lifelong friends. De Niro grew up in a fairly Bohemian but not His mother was raised Presbyterian but became been a lapsed Catholic since the age of 12. Against his parents' wishes, his grandparents Church while he was staying with them during As a child, Robert attended Public School There he studied until the 6th grade. And even then, De Niro showed his creative From time to time he saw how his father painted And sometimes they went to the cinema together His father really liked them. Those film screenings with his father instilled And Greta Garbo influenced his career, as Since then, while still in elementary school, acting classes at the Drama Workshop. And at the age of 10, he made his stage debut Wizard of Oz, having the role of Cowardly He later went to Elisabeth Irwin High School And from there he entered the High School But, he did not stay there for long before Hughes Junior High School. Robert also attended college-preparatory school Rhodes Preparatory School, where actor James They would meet later. But since Robert found performing as a way about cinema, he dropped out of school at Later, he admitted what inspired him to become Inset quote: "When I was around 18, I was actors are making a living at it, and they're than them.'" (Robert De Niro) Lee Strasberg's Actors Studio. There he was taught by Stella Adler, who personally and Lee Strasberg. Over the years, she began to teach at the first learned about the Stanislavsky system. By the way, Marlon Brando and Harvey Keitel Adler taught that if a character is talking know something about horseback riding, or It is important to study the values of different for people that may mean nothing to an actor. According to Adler, the actor goes on stage Robert learned the lesson. He was inspired by the work of actors such Dean, Greta Garbo and Geraldine Page. By the age of 20, Robert had already learned cinema. It was not so easy to do this, but in 1963, director today. But, at that time, both of them were not destined THE BEGINNING OF HIS CAREER An ambitious director Brian De Palma noticed Brian cast Robert in the lead role in his farce The Wedding Party. It is about the communication of the future and participants in the wedding celebration However, due to a dispute with Stanley Borden, the picture and was De Palma's employer, the But, The Wedding Party was released only in in the filmmaking sky. During filming, Robert was still unknown to in the credits as &quot;Robert DeNero&quot;. For his role, he received the first fee of And while the picture remained unreleased, Three Rooms in Manhattan. He played a client in a dinner scene, but It was his screen debut. In 1968, he played in two more films. He first reappeared in a minor role in Les The film production was accompanied by incessant The censors demanded cuts that distorted the to attend the premiere. De Niro was no closer to his goal. At that time, Brian De Palma cast Robert in The satirical film told the story of men who of Jon Rubin, a peeping tom and aspiring filmmaker. De Palma was not shy about the work, and Greetings an X rating from the American Film Association. Later, it was changed to an R rating. The film was presented at the 9th Berlin International award, giving De Palma and De Niro their first In fact, it was the first film in which Robert They continued their collaboration and worked Hi, Mom!. There Robert again had the role of Jon Rubin, film director" who decided to put cameras The film again received a special age rating because of one in which the character Gerrit his penis. As a result, those shots were cut and the Critics were satisfied and highly appreciated Also, in addition to his work with De Palma, in Jordan Leondopoulos' 1969 film Sam's Song. The film was not particularly remarkable, was recut into a completely different neo-noir It was known in the American cinema as Line In it, Robert also played the lead role of on was not political but more explicit. It happened because the director wanted to the resources. Then he decided to use the footage already De Niro was outraged that Cannon Films had brand-new film. He was ready to initiate legal action, but In general, in the first five years of De he played all sorts of dubious characters Because of that, he was still unknown. However, famous film critic Howard Thompson of De Palma's comedies and praised the aspiring In 1970, Robert appeared in Roger Corman's It was a loose adaptation of the life of Ma who encourages and organizes the criminal De Niro portrayed one of them - Lloyd Barker. For his role, Robert lost about 30 pounds began to learn all about the local culture. In a later interview with Esquire Magazine, one day during filming sleeping in an open The film also stars Bruce Dern and Academy Therefore, it can be considered the first At the box office, Bloody Mama also became neither critics nor audiences appreciated However, no matter how disastrous Robert's comedies formed the direction in which he In 1971, he played in three films at once. The role in Noel Black's drama Jennifer on He had the role of a taxi driver (later, Robert He also appeared in the criminal black comedy His role was not much more remarkable, but more visible and draw attention from the key According to the director, De Niro was on several times for his behavior. Well, the last of that year was the appearance Shoot Straight, directed by James Goldstone. The film is based on the novel of the same life of the Italian-American gangster Joe Interestingly, Francis Ford Coppola could producers refused him for his lack of experience Al Pacino was chosen for the lead role, but and went to another picture about the mafia... You probably already understand what kind Robert, on the other hand, was chosen to replace time. By the way, if you are interested in learning up card in the upper right corner of the screen of the unsurpassed Al Pacino. And you can write in the comments what other in our next video! The actors met back in the late 1960s, when And it turned out they have a lot in common! Pacino and De Niro grew up in New York in They were children of divorced parents, attended actors like Marlon Brando and James Dean. And later, they both started their acting And when both of them suddenly faced great the test. Robert admitted in an interview: "It was about stuff". Pacino is three years older than De Niro. Robert is laconic and even less often goes He is calmer, while Pacino has a bright personality. Fifty years later, they gave interviews together time, they just started their careers in Hollywood. The warmth and camaraderie between the actors competition for roles. The absence of hostile competition makes their They never held a grudge and always took an In an interview, Robert said: If a person gets a part and they're great It's when an actor is not good for it and you are regretful and not even jealous. You say, well, O.K., there you go. That's just what it is." (Robert De Niro) him to go to role readings with the director understand the material. By the way, he went to the casting in The to refuse in favor of The Gang That Couldn't Robert spent some time on the stage of The plays by Charles Maryan. His next appearance on the screen was the by John D. Hancock. The film adaptation of the novel of the same Pearson, a Major League Baseball player, who The smarter and more experienced teammate Robert auditioned for the lead role seven During pre-production, he traveled to Florida then visited Georgia and taped local conversations Since De Niro didn't even know the basics showed the basics of throwing and hitting. By the way, he and Danny would work together But, it is unknown whether Robert played baseball took up a bat at least once. Critics praised the film and were impressed The Hollywood Reporter stated: &quot;De Niro proves young character actors in movies with this It was Robert's first significant success, that. During that period, Robert met another talent working and later quite friendly relations, The director invited Robert to the crime film Scorsese and De Niro didn't communicate for when Martin, like Robert, grew up in the Little But in the 70s, the universe brought them Martin gave the actor several roles to choose Boy&quot; Civello, a petty criminal who makes his According to the director, Robert just fit Inset quote: "I planned to do Mean Streets, and temperature of it. He knew just how to stand, what hat to wear. He just knew it all, basically and there was (Martin Scorsese) improvise in certain scenes, but assistant &quot;extremely serious, extremely involved in Because of that, he remained somehow isolated It may have helped him get a better feel for The critics were ecstatic. The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival Festival. Many noted Robert's talented performance. For example, the actor won the National Society Circle award for Best Supporting Actor for Interestingly, it was not the debut film of and directed film by him personally. And the money for its creation was given by It's probably not a secret to anyone that Robert's careers. Later, they would meet eight more times. In the meantime, on the wave of success, Coppola at the casting of The Godfather and invited The director entrusted Robert with a lead Vito Corleone. De Niro mainly spoke in a few Sicilian dialects to better portray his on-screen character. Interestingly, the paths of Robert and Al However, they played according to the plot have joint scenes in the film. The Godfather Part II was a successful sequel It received eleven nominations at the 47th There was also De Niro's first major award It was De Niro's first Academy Awards win, but he on his behalf. De Niro and Marlon Brando, who played Vito pair of actors to win an Academy Award for We can say that Robert owed his success to take his first noticeable steps. But it would be wrong, because his steps also to go uphill without stopping. NOT A VERY RECOGNIZABLE SUPERSTAR each new project, he became more popular. Martin Scorsese again agreed to work with the neo-noir psychological thriller Taxi Driver. There, the actor had the freedom, and, therefore, Robert had the role of a Vietnam War veteran, and observed the morally decaying New York Robert again worked with Harvey Keitel, although changed. Also, the target of his observations in the The director relied on Robert to give instructions Later, in an interview, Foster often recalled According to her, the advice of the actor her entire acting career. It was the second time that Robert played In preparation for the role, Robert was still epic historical drama 1900. He finished filming on a Friday, boarded a Previously, De Niro received a taxi driver's actor took a taxi and drove around New York. Then he returned to the set of 1900 in Rome. It went on for a couple of weeks. In addition, Robert spent another 15 hours Plus, he repeatedly listened to the taped De Niro lost about 35 pounds to look skinny weapons and studied the behavior of taxi drivers. In addition, he visited a military base in of soldiers from the US Midwest, whose accents Bickle. Critics praised the picture and especially drowned in the image of his character. Taxi Driver received numerous awards, including and four nominations at the 49th Academy Awards, Supporting Actress for Foster. The film was hailed as a classic, and De Niro's became a mainstay of pop culture, ranking Movie Quotes. Interestingly, despite winning an Oscar for relatively unfamiliar face to the public. The only time he was recognized on the street pre-production for the film. For the role, Robert received only 35 thousand after winning the Oscar, he did not remake Already, the second joint project of Robert to both. It's amazing how they managed to find each say in one interview, he was very lucky to Inset quote: "I'm very happy to have found We've been very lucky over the years and also years. Yeah. We changed, and then came back together and (Martin Scorsese) Driver, which could spoil its glory. We are talking about John Hinckley's assassination A picture of a sociopathic taxi driver falling inspired Hinckley to commit a real crime. According to the film plot, at the end of bring down the candidate for whom his lover Hinckley was so obsessed with the film that describing his affection and pleading for In an attempt to impress the actress, he shot injuring the president, Secret Service agent However, during a 1982 trial, John Hinckley During the same period when Robert was working he met his future wife, Diahnne Abbott. She told De Niro that she dreamed of becoming from a previous marriage. Robert invited her to work in Taxi Driver, a cinema, and the couple's relationship became Already in 1976, they got married, and in De Niro also adopted Abbott's daughter, Drena Soon, 1900 by Bernardo Bertolucci, appeared An international cast took part in the film, Francesca Bertini and others. It told the story of two men, the landowner the peasant Olmo Dalco, played by Gerard the political tensions between fascism and The original director's version of the film It was released in two parts in Italy, but Bertolucci refused to shorten the film by to change distributors. Then, to appease studios and financiers, he was shown internationally, even though some In particular, explicit scenes made it necessary Robert felt uncomfortable in such scenes. Stefania Casini recalled the scene with Gerard Inset quote: &quot;I have never had problems with body was like a flower: a beautiful thing, It was the two boys who had more problems: a question of size. But Bertolucci loved actors, he put us in (Stefania Casini) He starred in the latest film by legendary The film was based on the novel by F. Scott creative head of one of the biggest studios Francis died of a heart attack before he could classmate Edmund Wilson brought it to the De Niro's set partner Robert Mitchum was stunned all day and nicknamed the young method actor Robert lost more than 40 pounds for his role. Elia Kazan noticed that De Niro was going interview: the scenes to be shot. Bobby is more meticulous... he's very imaginative. He's very precise. He figures everything out both inside and He has good emotion. He's a character actor: everything he does In a good way, but he calculates" (Elia Critics gave the film mixed reviews and were At the same time, no matter how hard the film at the box office. Producer Sam Spiegel recalled: today is Robert De Niro, the greatest living producer of all time. How the hell could we make such a bad f*cking (Sam Spiegel) star in Scorsese's new film. So, the musical drama, New York, New York, Liza Minnelli was his partner on the set. The story is about jazz, New York, and a pair and a pop singer - who fall madly in love But due to the nature of De Niro's character, In preparation for filming, Robert learned his performance look more authentic. Unfortunately, his performance still had to experienced jazz musician George Auld, who group. Martin allowed the actors to improvise, and on the fly, making it really difficult to And the taxi fight scene between Liza Minnelli Scorsese went to the hospital. By the way, in one of the scenes, Martin quarreled Steven Prince had to finish the scene. Probably, such a quarrel could have arisen in which the married Minnelli and the already told. The director and actress had a common hobby But when their relationship ended, and the Martin sank into depression and became seriously That dark period in his career almost cost pulled him out of that state. He came to the director with the idea to make world champion Jake LaMotta. Producer Irwin Winkler noticed Robert walking filming in New York, New York. According to him: "The book's not great Not surprisingly, Raging Bull was the next on together. It was also produced by Winkler. At the same time, Robert's career continued He was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best And in 1978, he managed to play in the military steelworkers whose lives were turned upside He shared the lead roles with Christopher Cazale, Meryl Streep and George Dzundza in De Niro, impressed with the script and the to sign on to the film. In preparation for the role, he hung out with homes. He also did his stunts, so the 30-foot fall days of shooting. And during the helicopter stunt, its skids injure De Niro and Savage. Robert later claimed that it was his most Picking up extras in Thailand, it was difficult evil person. The first actor was unable to slap Robert Fortunately, there was a Thai, Somsak Sengvilai, Then De Niro suggested that Christopher Walken warning. The reaction on Walken's face was sincere. What can we say about the reaction of Robert face from Christopher Walken? Director Michael Cimino convinced Walken to Robert was shocked and enraged that he almost The final version lasted 3 hours and was too And in post-production, there was a real production In parallel with the release of the picture critics because of the final scene where the America.&quot; The question was whether the moment was ironic, it&quot;. The Deer Hunter received critical and public from the cast, particularly De Niro. He, by the way, received his first millionth The film grossed $49 million at the box office, Academy Awards, and won five of them. Robert was so disturbed by the film's controversy He asked the Academy if he could skip the refused, so De Niro simply stayed at home The reward didn't want to go to Robert either... yet. During that period, Robert came to Martin, ago, but insisting. Scorsese was not a fan of sports at all and related to the ball. However, when his life and career were in ring is an allegory for everything you do And he began to relate to the history of LaMotta After listening to a friend, Martin made one Robert considers this role one of the most For the role of LaMotta, De Niro spent a month He gained almost 60 pounds and even had three he won. But in addition to his behavior in the ring, it, so Robert diligently trained the Bronx Vikki LaMotta several times. She told him many stories of her family life watched together. Jake LaMotta helped Robert get in shape and After three fights, he said that De Niro was time. LaMotta and Robert established a warm relationship, in the film. He was able to look at himself from the side By the way, initially, this scene looked different there! When Robert started yelling at his wife, a know about the filming and didn't recognize The actor did not go out of character and Scorsese filmed 19 takes of the climactic have been a contender..." speech from the room mirror. De Niro liked the 13th take, which was more take. Was it better? Perhaps we will never know. The actor's efforts and the film itself were Critics were delighted and praised both the Thanks to this film, the world got to know Robert would work together more than once The film received eight nominations for the Robert, who won the Oscar for Best Actor and awards. Raging Bull failed at the box office. In the future, other collaborations between But the film became a cult and gave new fame him to act even more actively. For example, in 1981, he appeared on the screen neo-noir crime drama True Confessions, where He got the role of a priest who conflicts a murder. When Robert was signed to the project, he weight he had gained for Raging Bull as possible. The adaptation of John Gregory Dunne's novel murder case, was received positively. But, it didn't gross at the box office. It did not frighten Robert. For about a year, he has been looking for the range of acting roles and prove his acting Scorsese was dissatisfied after Raging Bull film The Last Temptation of Christ. It was a time when the director thought about Martin wanted Robert to play Jesus. De Niro's current religious beliefs and preferences nature. But as a child, he became a baptized Catholic after his parents divorced. So he has a great opportunity to explore his However, De Niro rejected the idea: Inset quote: "I was not interested in playing It's like playing Hamlet. I just didn't want to do it" (Robert De So his next project was the film The King make with Martin Scorsese. De Niro was the first to bring Scorsese's gave the film a New York mood and a darker In it, Robert played the struggling stand-up himself as the "king of comedy", while and American media culture. In preparation for filming, De Niro spent at work to understand the rhythm and timing He also developed the &quot;role reversal&quot; technique them and asking them many questions. As Scorsese recalled, he even agreed to meet Inset quotes: "The guy was waiting for him rather embarrassed by the situation. He wanted to take him to dinner at their house, After he had persuaded him to stay in Manhattan, What do you want?' He replied, 'To have dinner with you, have My mom asked me to say hi.'" (Martin Scorsese) the role of his love interest in the film. According to the director, the filming process Now, imagine what a blow it was for De Niro its audience and flopped at the box office, $19 million. Despite critical praise, it was the biggest even put their collaboration on hold for a Martin went to improve his health, and Robert In 1984, he appeared on the screen with James the epic crime film Once Upon a Time in America. It meant to him: Because the plot was based on the Harry Gray best friends from the Jewish ghetto who become crime world. Robert played Jewish gangster David &quot;Noodles&quot; ten years ago during the filming of The Godfather Robert wanted to meet face-to-face with the for the role, but he was turned down. Nevertheless, his performance was, as always, was similar in timing and epic to The Godfather. It premiered at the 1984 Cannes Film Festival But in theaters, the audience did not really failed at the box office, collecting only Another box office failure of Robert that where his partner in the project was Meryl The actors had already played together in movie or work together, something real and As a result, they got this kind of film. All of Robert's projects in the mid-'80s did black comedy Brazil, which was even included Then Robert took a short break from the cinema the Longacre Theater, starring in the play Obviously, he wanted to overcome that difficult star. But how to achieve all this? TRYING THE NEW, RETURNING TO THE OLD gangster in the period drama The Mission, The picture told about the life of a Jesuit century. Not all critics liked the image of the actor. The film itself was praised, but Robert was They said, "De Niro is all right here until Robert had two supporting roles the following He first starred in a neo-noir psychological It was an adaptation of the novel Falling Rourke. Initially, the role was offered to Robert, projects and wanted to relieve himself of supporting role. The director recalled how reluctantly he took Inset quote: "I had been courting De Niro and we had met a few times -- and he had every dot and comma of my script. I had walked him through the locations we on the floor of a dank, disused church in (Alan Parker) and, according to Parker, the actor was so Cypher that Parker avoided him on set and Robert, as usual, chose the method of self-dismissal in character. Because of that, Mickey Rourke, not familiar Robert was ignoring him and held a grudge The film was the first and last time the actors kind words to each other since. Moreover, Mickey Rourke, at any mention of he is and denigrates him in every possible Inset quote: &quot;I don't look up to him no more. I look through him.&quot; (Mickey Rourke) him from getting a role in Martin Scorsese's But it so happened that, for some reason, of crime bosses and mobsters. So, the second film in 1987 was the crime Al Capone. After a long time, it was the third collaboration was based on the book of the same name and It was difficult for Robert's film to fail were Kevin Costner, Charles Martin Smith, Robert really wanted to be like Al Capone as he was concerned about the shape of his However, he did not have enough time to gain with special lining bags. In preparation for the role, Robert read about He even sought out Al Capone's first tailors for the film. Interestingly, Robert insisted on making him The producers, knowing De Niro's reputation his underwear never appeared on camera. Of course, Robert was at his best in the film, Connery. The film paid off at the box office, grossing of $3 million for his participation. Gradually, from that moment, Robert's financial Robert also narrated the documentary Dear after which he appeared in Martin Brest's Robert had the role of bounty hunter Jack by Charles Grodin. The film received very warm reviews from critics and Robert received another nomination for Yet it was not in vain that he tried to go Film critic Hal Hinson of The Washington Post Inset quote: "De Niro has reduced himself him drop the great-actor mantle, and the theatricality. As a result, he hasn't seemed as fresh since There's less specificity in the conception fits into him snugly, effortlessly, and the a comic foil as ideal as Grodin, appears to (Hal Hinson) so popular. For example, Robert played in the drama Jacknife, He had the role of a Vietnam War veteran suffering veteran relive dark memories. Or, for example, in the comedy, We're No Angels, It was strange because the actors who played a pair of priests were pleased with their fail. Interestingly, De Niro and Sean Penn have difference of 17 years. The romantic drama Stanley &amp; Iris, where Robert The romantic drama unfolded in the real life In 1988, he and Diahnne Abbott divorced. In this regard, Robert lacked constancy. While still married to Abbott, he met model years. At that time, Robert was in no hurry to tie He remained in good relations with his children, actors. Inset quote: "For my kids, I tell them, do this or that, that's fine as long as you're Just don't sell yourself short,' That's the more and reach for what you really think it Don't be afraid." (Robert De Niro) and years later, Raphael got a job in real Drena, the child of two successful actors, and traveled the world with her father, filming Later, she was a model and tried to become Son Julian inherited his parents' acting genes twin brother Aaron remains rather not public. De Niro's notable screen appearance was a the crime film Goodfellas. After a long break from collaborating, the about the rise and fall of mafia accomplice It seemed that Robert already acquired mafia also appeared in the film. Al Pacino was also invited to star in it, it turned out. Robert played James Conway, based on Jimmy hijacker. To prepare for the role, he consulted the who had research material discarded when writing De Niro called Henry Hill several times a and generally did anything. The actors improvised a lot during rehearsals, final film. Although it did not gross a big box office, In addition, Goodfellas earned a Silver Lion The Italian critics were particularly enthusiastic, and, after a while, gained cult status. In the same year, Robert appeared in another Based on the memoirs of Oliver Sacks, Awakenings, played by Robin Williams, who discovers the catatonic patients, one of whom is Robert In preparation for the role, Robin Williams Sacks in the hospital, watching him and his Robert even filmed a scene with "Lillian book. Also, an interesting incident happened during guards and Robert. Robin Williams swung his elbow awkwardly and However, De Niro was glad of that, since his after Robin's blow, he seemed to fall into The film was a box office success and received nomination for De Niro. It's amazing how Robin Williams turned out one of the best roles in his career. But we'll talk about this better another time. Meanwhile, De Niro's next project was the Winkler, with whom he had already worked when Now it was his directorial debut, in which has returned to the US in an era of McCarthy Robert's friend, Martin, also played one of It received mixed reviews from critics. Although Robert's performance was praised He then had a supporting role in the action He played Inspector Donald &quot;Shadow&quot; Rimgale The film has already paid off, but there is in it. The actor's third and biggest project in 1991 Cape Fear, based on the novel The Executioners For the film, he had to work hard and even Oh, don't worry. It's about teeth. Robert paid his dentist $5,000 to make his who has served 14 years. Robert's Max Cady accent came from an earlier During preparation, he took script excerpts asked local residents to read lines on tape And he especially liked to repeat. His accent gave Martin Scorsese goosebumps. Jokingly, De Niro called Scorsese and left After that, however, Robert had to pay another any case, it was worth it. The film grossed $182 million at the box office And Robert earned nominations for the Golden In 1992, De Niro appeared in two films. The first was the comedy-drama Mistress, in Wright. And the other was the neo-noir crime drama in which Robert had a role of a garrulous Both did not become very popular. 1993 was an important year for Robert. He worked a lot. For example, he appeared in the crime comedy-drama and Bill Murray. He played crime scene photographer Wayne Dobie, in the film was critically acclaimed - &quot;real-life very funny look at the male bonding experience,&quot; He also played in the coming-of-age film This Wolff. His partners on the set were Leonardo DiCaprio Robert had the role of Dwight Hanse, the stepfather The film was generally well-received, although everyone. When De Niro saw the performance of Leonardo Martin to tell him about a kid that he should Scorsese said it was rather unexpected, as of this level. Martin did not regret the acquaintance. Well, in addition to the pictures in which shot that year. The coming-of-age crime film A Bronx Tale story of an Italian-American boy named Calogero between the temptations of organized crime father. One of the lead roles in the film was played and the original play of the same name. It had been staged as a one-man show a few At Robert's request, Palminteri was involved from casting to editing and sound mixing. The release of Robert's debut film was good It was well-received by critics and almost That moment was overshadowed only by the fact De Niro Sr., who died in May 1993 on his 71st Robert found four personal diaries of his thoughts, for ten years, starting in 1963. In an interview with the Observer, the actor Inset quote: "I'm anxious to read them. I'll read them when it feels right... but it." (Robert De Niro) on a book Robert De Niro, Sr.: Paintings, soon published by Rizzoli. Robert wrote a foreword for the book. His father was a prominent figure in the New He painted landscapes, still lifes and portraits styles in the boldest colors. The diaries shocked Robert. There the father worried about his homosexuality, and doubted the correctness of keeping a diary. After reading only those passages that were was sad for me to read. He had his demons... I was sorry." Robert De Niro Sr. did not discuss his worries Father and son were proud of each other's words. They didn't have a moment to sit down, and Robert knew he was proud of it. In his notes, De Niro Sr wrote that Robert offers... My little baby-doll has grown up." In his life, the father did not experience In an interview, Robert said: in acting, I helped him. He was very proud of me. At the same time, part of him might have been He always used to say to me 'great artists gone'." (Robert De Niro) project, Robert continued to take on a variety the science fiction horror Mary Shelley's The film adaptation of Mary Shelley's 1818 was very successful at the box office. In 1995, De Niro returned to the crime genre Scorsese, Casino. His project partners were Sharon Stone and Most of the conversations between Robert and The actors were so used to working together to start, where to end, and the rest was up Robert had the role of American Jew Sam &quot;Ace&quot; Rothstein, Casino in Las Vegas at the request of the Compared to previous Scorsese projects in that film has grown to $50 million. Just the costumes cost a million dollars. Robert De Niro had 70 different costumes throughout After filming, they were both allowed to keep Although it looked like Robert was paid a In fact, this is how the creators paid off It is, of course, a joke, but how else to entire film received positive reviews from box office? However, Robert was not up to it because the Mann's crime thriller Heat. He had the opportunity to finally work in Pacino. Although on the screen, they were far from They had already worked together in The Godfather scenes. Now on the screen, there was a real confrontation and professional criminal Neil McCauley, played The actor agreed to participate in the project According to him, "It was very good, very and authenticity". By the way, this joint scene with Pacino in without rehearsal for greater natural tension De Niro proposed that idea, and Pacino and The film was extremely successful with critics, classic over time. Not without the merit of the legendary duet. Robert also had minor supporting roles that One Nights and the drama Panther. The next notable appearance on the screen by Tony Scott, The Fan. De Niro had the role of deranged baseball Critics were not delighted, and it failed Everything was not so good in the relationship The couple tried to have a baby, but the model to the method of in vitro fertilization of So the couple had twin boys: Julian and Aaron. But, at that time, Robert's feelings faded, Robert dated for some time with 19-year-old Mike Tyson's girlfriend. Interestingly, according to her, she fell that Robert was 28 years older than her. But less than a year later, Robert became Finally, the actor chose Whitney Houston, However, Whitney's parents dissuaded the singer as her father. Then Robert began a relationship with the but after finding out that she has a connection off the relationship. Once in Paris, De Niro was interrogated for But back to the cinema. The second film in 1996, the legal crime drama Robert. There, the actor worked with Kevin Bacon, Interestingly, the filming process was made paths with Kevin Bacon. The film was about four boys, involved in they are brutally treated by the guards. De Niro played the role of the priest Bobby revenge by going free. After that, Robert appeared in the drama Marvin's Meryl Streep, Leonardo DiCaprio and Diane He played the supporting role of Dr Wallace In addition to participating in the frame, From that moment on, he gradually reveals So, in the same year, De Niro also produced He worked on both projects together with Jane relationship. In 1997, Robert appeared in James Mangold's Stallone, Harvey Keitel and Ray Liotta. De Niro played the role of Internal Affairs police corruption in the city of New Jersey. But what about love? Robert was still undergoing a metamorphosis. He met actress and singer Grace Hightower, Oh, if he knew what this relationship would The same year, Robert worked on Wag the Dog. The political satire black comedy was also De Niro and Dustin Hoffman had the roles of who fabricated a war in Albania to distract Critics liked the film, but a chance helped box office. In January 1998, a month after its release, headlines, which brought the film to attention. Last but not least that year was Robert's film Jackie Brown, where he played an almost Louis Gara. The following year, Robert appeared in the eponymous Expectations. However, he again had a supporting role. Leading roles in Robert's career are becoming thriller Ronin directed by John Frankenheimer. And this even though a full-fledged ensemble Reno, Stellan Skarsgard The film did not bring the expected profit, comedy genre. So, in 1999, the mafia comedy film Analyze Robert's character is a mafioso who found a resisting psychiatrist, played by Billy Surprisingly for everyone, the film was a De Niro was nominated for a Golden Globe Award Actually, it was the seventh time ... but eighth time happened. In the meantime, Robert played in Joel Schumacher's Few people liked the picture, and it went It seems that in recent years, Robert's films lucky, and some even more unpredictably failed. Robert began the new millennium with several this period of life of a talented actor, we and click on the bell. It will help us develop and create new videos, the most interesting facts about the lives Subscribe, and we'll continue. AGELESS DE NIRO in his first animated comedy, The Adventures Leader, a dictator who hired two mobsters. He also produced the film along with Rosenthal. He also played Master Chief 'Billy' Sunday Critics did not appreciate both projects, off. Finally, Robert's first successful project Parents, where he worked with Ben Stiller. In the story, he played the father - a retired fiance. The script was not originally written for after the release of Analyze This. Jane Rosenthal, who produced the picture, became interested in it. Moreover, it was he who came up with the idea Ben Stiller was a little afraid to play with which he had previously acted. But according to him, it was a big revelation They got along. Meet the Parents broke the box office, grossing The film's success inspired two sequels, Meet 2004 and 2010. The second part collected even more at the The third grossed only $310 million, and looking seemed to be superfluous. Robert had roles in 2001 in the failed crime by Frank Oz, The Score, where he played with in his final role. It was rumored that Robert De Niro was victim including a remote-controlled electronic whoopee The film was positively received by critics Meanwhile, Robert went into producing, although The production company TriBeCa Productions, 1989, gradually restructured into Tribeca Tribeca Productions, Tribeca Film Festival, of the Tribeca Film Institute. Robert De Niro and Jane Rosenthal became co-founders, has grown since the September 11 attacks to In 2002, De Niro co-founded the Tribeca Film Festival with Since then, the event has been held annually, and hundreds of feature and short films and it. Robert appeared in the CBS documentary 9/11, of the New York City fire department. After the disastrous buddy cop action comedy Murphy and his daughter Drena De Niro, he The crime drama, in which Frances McDormand the set, also failed. Another failure was the sequel to the 1999 Robert and Billy Crystal reprising their roles. Critics did not appreciate it, considering And in general, many began to lean towards decline. Proof of this was the 2004 psychological horror role. The film has the worst ratings in the actor's Tomatoes. In the same year, Robert voiced a role in Tale. He got the opportunity to command Martin Scorsese a shark. Robert's last release of that year was the the novel of the same name by Thornton Wilder. Place your bets, did the film pay off or fail? If you chose the latter, then you are not The psychological thriller Hide and Seek was There, Robert worked along with Dakota Fanning, town with his traumatized daughter due to Critics again did not appreciate the film, box office. The following year, Robert turned down a role The Departed, to direct his own spy thriller, development of the CIA during its formative He also had a supporting role in the film Captain William J. Donovan, best known as during World War II. He is considered the founding father of the Well, the lead roles in the film went to Matt was also a place for his friend Joe Pesci. The second directorial project of Robert De Niro could not pay off due to the production budget As always, such an acting cast and quality It is noteworthy that the cast of The Good International Film Festival, and the film Design. De Niro planned to make two sequels, but the it seems, never found an opportunity to be The actor's only project in 2007 was Stardust film based on the 1999 novel of the same name In it, Robert had the minor role of Captain We should say that his image was strikingly And it was great. In 2008, Robert again starred alongside Al where they both played the role of NYPD detectives The friends' reunion did not justify itself, satisfied After the failures of What Just Happened and role, he played a supporting role in the exploitation and Ethan Maniquis. And finally got some kind of reviews, and It's funny because the film could not exist. Director Robert Rodriguez only shot it because as part of the Grindhouse project, where Rodriguez for non-existent films before showing their And then De Niro had again failures, like Italian romantic comedy The Ages of Love, Among the successful films of that time, only supporting role as financial magnate Carlos The film was very successful at the box office, same project along with the film's star, Bradley So in 2012, they played in David O. Russell's Robert played the role of the father of Patrizio who is released from a psychiatric hospital This theme was especially close to Robert. Robert's father also had bipolar disorder, he left the family. Thanks to the film, Robert felt how much communication The film received 8 Academy Award nominations, De Niro. It grossed more than $236 million at the box time in a long time. In 2013, a series of failed projects continued The Family, which at least earned at the box Unexpectedly, the comedy Last Vegas was successful There, Robert worked with Michael Douglas, In the story, three friends of retirement party for their last single friend. Shortly thereafter, he starred in Grudge Match entered the ring for one last fight. And in the crime thriller The Bag Man. But we want to mention another project more. In 2014, De Niro took part in the making of This 40-minute documentary was part celebratory, a son's regret for things left unsaid, and legacy. He once again became a father and a grandfather. Back in 1998, Robert and Grace Hightower had to break up. It turned out that Elliot suffers from autism. Robert believes that an ordinary routine vaccination the disease. Because of this, in 2016, De Niro advocated Vaxxed in the Tribeca Film Festival, which He later explained: that people should see. I, as a parent with a child who has autism, I want to know the truth. And I'm not anti-vaccine, I want safe vaccines." (Robert De Niro) to adapt their son to society. The couple never filed for divorce and renewed As a sign of that, they again organized a stars, actors and directors were invited: were among them. After that, a prosperous period began in the had a daughter Helen from a surrogate mother. De Niro also has four grandchildren: one from Rafael. After a short break, Robert returned to the The Intern. He worked with Anne Hathaway and Rene Russo. Robert portrayed a 70-year-old widower who site and struck up a casual friendship with The film, with a budget of $35 million, grossed Critics said that De Niro brought a fresh, off by the raw charm of Spencer Tracy. His performance earned him a Critics Choice a Comedy. It remains to add that Quentin Tarantino liked not nominated for an Oscar for his performance. His appearance in David O. Russell's biographical time. The film told the story of self-made millionaire Also, we should note the comedy Dirty Grandpa, Richard &quot;Dick&quot; Kelly - Jason's grandfather his grandson during his spring break. In 2017, De Niro starred as Bernie Madoff Levinson, The Wizard of Lies. The role earned him critical praise and a Robert received two more Emmy Award nominations Night Live, in the Outstanding Guest Actor as a producer on the acclaimed series When Unexpectedly, information about quarrels between In 2017, they quarreled in one of the entertainment - the reason was the excessive extravagance For a while, they continued to attend official De Niro began to appear alone in public more After 20 years of marriage, the couple broke However, their marriage remained undissolved The issues of finances and property of the to the actor, Grace was wasteful in her coffee Because of that, he allegedly had to act in The judge ordered Grace to receive $1 million sale of the $20 million home. In turn, De Niro's lawyer noted that Hightower cards every month in luxury stores. On April 19, 2021, De Niro's lawyer stated at an unsustainable pace in order to support Hightower's lawyer said that since the couple reduced the payments she agreed to. Litigation continues. In recent years, Robert has rarely appeared significant roles at once. He first appeared in a supporting role as Joker. The role paid homage to his character from a comedian obsessed with a talk show host. The film was highly acclaimed by critics and collecting over a billion dollars! And the main reference of the film, according Driver, in which Robert De Niro had a lead His other significant role of that year was Scorsese, The Irishman, based on the book The epic gangster film told the story of Frank killer, linked to mobster Russell Bufalino Jimmy Hoffa, played by Al Pacino. The development of the film took several years Netflix came to the rescue of the quartet million to make the film and releasing it De Niro has been involved in the project for Inset quote: "It's a terrific book... I read it and I said, 'Marty, you should read we should try and do.' We started this whole process in 2007, so I'm excited to see it and to share it after (Robert De Niro) ages, the creators resorted to visual effects The film used digital rejuvenation by Lucasfilm through the decades. On The Tonight Show, the actor explained how Inset quote: "We had slight dots. They didn't want it to get in our way. This they did very subtly and so on, so they pictures and a special camera photographing (Robert De Niro) but since it lasted 3 and a half hours, it The commercial profit of the picture was difficult biggest financial failure. In the meantime, Robert appeared in several and the completely failed David O. Russell The film, with an ensemble cast of Christian Michael Shannon, Anya Taylor-Joy and more, Robert's latest film was the thriller Savage Mike Church. But we really don't want to talk about this The actor also earns on advertising: De Niro has aged noticeably. His age is making itself visible. But the actor does not lose his fighting spirit Robert does not even plan to end his career, projects. Soon he will appear in the adaptation of the Moon, performing cattleman William Hale - he new film, along with Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert will also appear in the comedy About When asked if he plans to retire, Robert replied: is grandfathers, then great-grandfathers, knows. I'll go as long as I can." (Robert De Niro) not registered on Facebook - according to would complicate my life". Seeing people sitting at computers all day, - obviously, something related to Facebook it. Not so long ago, it became known that he will directed by Barry Levinson. And he will also work on the six-part Netflix drama Bobby Meritorious for Paramount +. He will also produce these projects. And who knows what impact they will have the future: is investing in besides litigation, buying De Niro also co-owns the Greenwich Hotel and And if that's not enough, he also co-owns Nobu. There are more than 40 Nobu locations worldwide, hotels. Since 2014, he has also been the special economic Antigua and Barbuda. With the help of Robert, more than $250 million in the state. During his career, De Niro has won two Oscars BAFTA nominee. Robert was awarded and nominated eight times he received a special award - Cecil B. deMille In 2009, he was one of the top five winners 2016 he was awarded the Presidential Medal In 2020, Robert received the Screen Actors And we hope that this is not the whole list with the new achievements of Robert. He repeatedly proved to everyone that if you it is enough to want it very much and move He often played gangsters and dangerous criminals, career was just our hearts. We are grateful to Robert and wish him a long Thank you for watching this video until the If you liked this video, we have prepared We are sure you will find a lot of new information Career ups and downs, success stories, and and even more - on our channel. Click on the icon that appears on your screen Also, you can like this video if you haven't And that's all for today. Biographer was with you. See you soon!