We know about the oil market, the fruit and vegetable market, What do they have in common? Buyers and sellers everywhere The law of supply and demand The crime world is no exception All trafficking A mafia is a criminal enterprise with its own products to deliver The organized crime market Where does this money come from? Trafficking in every form. The more illegal it is, Who are the main players How are they organized? Who benefits from the illegal profits? This is what Dirty Dollars reveals. It's a journey behind the scenes Welcome to the extremely active the most luxurious narcotic in the world. It's a very profitable There's a different dynamic but a lot of the economic fundamentals The worldwide demand for cocaine Supply satisfies demand. It's impossible because once there's a demand, Once there's a supply, there's a demand. This is its fundamental economic reality. It's a juicy, profitable market, The cocaine market is estimated In truth, no one knows The cocaine business of the criminal economy. It's a statement from the prestigious This researcher leads a group of analysts the way international cocaine trafficking The black market. People don't keep financial records We can estimate it but fundamentally it's based In the mafia, there's only one thing Silence. The best way which is as secretive as it is active, is to consider it like any other business Cocaine is a market. To commercialize it worldwide, you need manufacturing sites exporters and transporters to handle the logistics and a sales force All along the chain, teams of financiers and managers That's business, and the cocaine market To show how it works, in Latin America, Cocaine is an alkaloid. It's a psychoactive substance that must be extracted This plant can only be found Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru. Cocaine is a substance It's transformed from these leaves to obtain the white powder It's exported in this form except if it falls That's what happened to this shipment This cargo was intercepted in Lima The seized drug is being analyzed by Commander Chilet This is exclusive footage It's also a great opportunity We weigh everything you see here, We weigh them brick by brick to be sure of the weight Once weighed, we take them to the experts, who will take samples and analyze them. How does it go from a leaf to a powder? That's the trick. It's a chemical process with the harvest. First, you have to extract the alkaloid. You have to allow the leaves The mixture is filtered This coca base paste This step is called purification. It's pure chemistry. After several steps, It looks like average-sized pebbles This raw material will travel far from the production zone. It's in these hidden labs that the chemists will carry out called crystallization. This is a crucial step Finally, you get cocaine hydrochloride. This is the scientific name of coke, At the moment, it's almost pure. To summarize, to produce four kilograms After crystallization, there are only two kilograms The product is almost finished. There is still the step that's indispensable the manufacturer's mark. Do you see this? There's a cross, like the one in the Crusades. The logos are made with a press. It's to identify the organization in order to inform the recipient. It's to say that this is my drug. It's pure and not cut with anything else. It identifies it and says that I made it. This has become an essential step Producers must stand out in order to be recognized In the public's imagination, the white powder is associated and the most famous drug trafficker However, that was before. The golden age of the great Today, mafias have split into a multitude that work together developing their businesses This is what Peru's Minister of Interior Today's cocaine business This kind of commerce is not organized that controls production, transport, We are up against a complex organization with different economic players for production, transportation, These organizations function Today, worldwide production of cocaine It's divided among three countries: Colombia remains but the situation has changed Jaime Garcia Diaz in cocaine trafficking In the 1990s, In the division of labor, [Spanish spoken audio] Overall, it worked like that from about 1965 Today, all of the drug production, the production of chemicals and the drug trafficking financing, It's in the hands of family clans The 300 kilograms is the perfect example. The cocaine is 100% Peruvian. The drug went up in smoke in front of journalists This batch was worth around 300,000 euros In Europe, it could've brought in That's a 3,900% increase. To understand the reason you must go back to where it was made. We'll look for our answers Let's head to the Alto Huayabamba valley. Two men have agreed to tell us at the beginning of the 1990s. At that time, living off their crops However, thirty years ago, The government here abandoned the farmers. We had to fend for ourselves. There were no farming subsidies. That's why so many went over We knew that it was illegal, Corn and bananas are not profitable, We had no alternative. It seemed to us To understand the potential alternatives you need to get on the ground I'm sure you've wondered Why can't they grow chocolate or cacao? You see exactly why It's a two-hour drive on a dirt road and it's a two-hour boat ride up the river The notion that these people that can compete with crops grown is nonsensical. These people are rational economic actors. They're not profit-grabbers, These are people who live and grow crops At the beginning, I was skeptical, but I didn't have a choice. If you had lived here, At the start, cocaine is a farm product. From their first harvest, Drug lords pay cash. In remote areas, no one could afford In this area of Alto Huayabamba, We all did the same thing. Generally, drug traffickers push farmers It's much easier to transport so it has to be produced on site. The farmers who take the risk We wanted to learn how to make cocaine. It became profitable for us. We handled the transformation We produced the base paste. We could find the best buyers in that way. The farmers who transform the coca or cooks. It's because, to create a good base paste, you need the right recipe, and especially the right ingredients. This requires chemicals. You need large quantities It's trafficking inside of trafficking. The problem is that these chemicals are used so it's a real headache for authorities. General Hector Loayza Arrieta The role of chemicals is fundamental, because they are the raw materials Only two to three percent are imported. [Spanish spoken audio] To be clear, the chemicals come from Lima whose papers are in order. [Spanish spoken audio] When they arrive in the production region, Legal merchandise becomes illegal. Cocaine production requires a network who are able to deliver to the heart of the jungle. However, it's a black market. The cocaleros pay over-market price It's an essential cost to make the cocaine base paste. Once the harvest was finished, it took around five to six days Today, it's quicker. Technological progress has reduced and the cocineros, the cooks, Microwaves are used to accelerate Normally, if it's done the natural way, the process takes With the ovens, they can do it in one day. Once dry, the base paste is sold Buyers travel directly to producers. Supply and demand is the golden rule. When a buyer came, Then you knew what he wanted. &quot;How many kilos do you have?&quot; Then we negotiate. The cocaine base paste is ready. This merchandise must be transported to the drug labs The easiest way is by air. In 2015, in the VRAEM region anti-drug police dynamited 275 aerodromes. That gives you an idea of the extent of the drug traffickers' Air traffic is intense If the police arrive at that time, all of the harvest Loading must be done to avoid being caught. We brought the drug, Everything happened quickly, very quickly. Amazing footage from the Peruvian police You can see how quickly It lands. This signals the group of couriers The pilot pays for the merchandise. They load up the plane with the drugs, No one verifies the money With drug traffickers, trust is indispensable The police come to arrest the cocaleros. The operation's result is that The plane is destroyed. Drug traffickers lost Police enforcement is an additional cost. It's a financial risk that weighs In light of this, authorities in producing countries directly in the fields. Hitting the trafficking economy This is what happened 20 years ago It was a terrible blow, Thanks to it, the history of cacao began, but it took time. It was five years or maybe more before we could make a living In reality, some experts question If you saw the price of coca double that would have virtually nil impact on what's happening Those prices are determined which revolve around trade, The production is completely decoupled Even if you saw huge eradication which saw a price spike and saw farmers able to charge double it doesn't have any impact. Replacing coca with another crop requires costly policies that only affect Drug traffickers know this very well In Bolivia, Peru, and Colombia, a large number are waiting for the opportunity North America consumes 41% of the cocaine Europe consumes 29%. Cocaine is a niche market, It's an attractive product At least, that's what studies the UN office in charge of collecting have shown. We have 17 million people using cocaine The bulk of those are recreational users who go to a party They account for only a small proportion We have a Pareto distribution, It means 20% of the users Whatever the case, 12 million live Traffickers seek out this clientele How is the traffic organized to reach consumers This is the job of the criminal groups The exporters. The logistical organization to avoid getting caught However, because of geography, To reach the different consumer markets, cocaine first travels like Ecuador, Venezuela, to reach the American market, and through Brazil, the Caribbean, to reach the European market. Criminal organizations of various anti-drug The simplest way is to take advantage moving around the world each day. Sylvain Raymond is in charge at the WCO, Today, when you see the explosion over the last 30 or 40 years just in terms of putting merchandise you can imagine has exploded in the same way. It's complicated for us, and especially with the increase we've had in the last few years. Generally, they do business They transfer the illegal substance From there, or they will simply place it which means they will hide in a container that contains legal cargo. In Peru, more than 43 million tons transit through Lima's port every year. Peru's police only have a single scanner A lucky break for cocaine exporters, Fifty percent of the drugs that leave Peru Cocaine travels mainly surrounded Around 500 million containers in the world's different ports. That's 16 containers a second. For the agents at Interpol, it's become difficult The biggest trend at the moment Before, the traffickers inside a particular commodity product. You have bananas, Now you don't need to do that. You don't need to conceal the cocaine The traffickers are using duffel bags. Then the containers are opened They throw the bag in, and then they close it This is what they call as rip-off. The company that ships the commodity During a seizure, You have no trace, With this method, If you're caught, you won't be linked to anything, Instead of doing one shipment you do several shipments It's safer, easier, It's a game of dominoes. What I mean is that, we're always just a little bit behind. As soon as we discover one modus operandi, they've already started thinking So we're constantly racing Transporting cocaine Exporters show unlimited ingenuity For example, to export from Colombia, mafia transport companies offer of moving the drug to the USA. Tiny submarines. These submarines can transport in one trip. The latest official figures estimate that arrives in submarines. Moving cocaine is also the job A significant amount of cocaine in the pockets or bags They're called mules. The drug smugglers pay between $2,000 It's an attractive amount, More opportunistic, Mexican cartels sometimes use migrants Crossing the border illegally costs around $2,000. It's a large sum for hopeful immigrants, but with a mafia, That's what John Doe, explains. There is another way. If the person does not have the amount, and is able to do it, we... No, I won't say we. They are offered to cross illegal drugs. Marijuana, cocaine, and heroin. Crossing one load will be enough Whatever it takes to supply the market, The authorities in charge We try to anticipate As a result, because the cost of customs seizures We are a part of the traffic The further you have to travel the higher the risk of falling This factor justifies a huge increase While a kilo of cocaine in countries where it's produced, it costs between 35,000 and up to 60,000 euros in Europe. You can see that it's the risk because in this kind of business, It either makes it through or it doesn't. To avoid discovery, traffickers rely not only they have also completely transformed Today, in the age of globalization, people are working together It's harder to investigate You can only get a part of it With these people you can even but if you have it's going to be isolated for the rest. The others will find another group and then they will continue With the number of criminals this business has a guaranteed structure Before, it was one group doing it. Now, with an increase in their numbers, This is a good example among ethnic groups. The cocaine market is now open Twenty years ago, They bought land and companies and to create networks Today, you realize organized crime that's 100% African They handle all of the logistics, and sale on the European market. You realize that nothing is set in stone. Africa offers many advantages Mafias are adept at exploiting and political instability. I think that drug traffickers where there's a lack of security, These gray zones that lack security This is particularly evident where there's a cluster of activity The link between organized crime is becoming more and more obvious. Here we are, In Europe, there are many ways but the risk is high for the exporters. The means available to the police, are far superior to those of their The owners of this trawler Off the coast of Great Britain, they were chased by a warship, and an infrared camera. These smugglers never had The army, backed by experts intercepted and boarded and 3.2 tons of cocaine were seized. Seizure is a kind of customs tax except that it represents Regardless, another boat managed to evade the net. In Spain, the Netherlands, tons of cocaine arrive safe and sound. Distributing it works Wholesalers sell the cocaine who sell it to retailers, Wladimir is a dealer. He sells around a kilo a year, He explains how he gets his cocaine. The first time you go to Rotterdam, They prepare the product that you want. For 500 grams, you pay 13,000 euros. You have 2,000 euros in expenses, It costs 2,100 euros to move 500 grams. It's hidden in a fully loaded truck It's not just for one customer. When you're in Holland, You pay half, and after 15 days, you send the other half and he takes it back. Again, transport and exchange Customs officials and police are mobilized It's a fact that in recent years, the number of cocaine seizures Nearly 50% of all the cocaine However, the street price of a gram Supply continues to satisfy demand. How? Again, it's like a traditional business. You just have to sell a product In drug trafficking, To understand, let's analyze More than 50% of the powder an anti-parasitic drug in addition to a bit of acetaminophen, In the end, only 25% of it The adulteration process The profits from the adulteration It's just that along the way, until it reaches street level This phenomenon is well known Karl was addicted to cocaine For nearly ten years, I know people and I became friends with them. Sometimes they showed me I discovered that what they bought They cut it, leaving less than 30% of the coke They made a crazy profit. I completely understood why they did it. Cutting the product from captive consumers. If you want a good product, and you have to be ready to pay. In Europe, a gram costs It all depends just like in a traditional business. Products are cheaper in supermarkets Contrary to what you might think, when you're a small entrepreneur you have many constraints. You must have cutters, There's management in drug trafficking, Very often, The more you cut it, and the more you can spread out There's a small dealer logic that clearly impacts It's true that if you have clients they'll ask for a purer product I don't cut it. My price is higher. I'm more expensive than the others, It's like a fine food shop. I sell a gram uncut, I've had the same customers I've met everyone and sold it Coke really touches everyone, but it's hidden and discreet. What they like about me is my discretion. To sell the product, who may not want to deal directly Dealers found a way around that by using a sales force Coke isn't sold in neighborhoods. It's in bourgeois circles with musicians, the media, those who have the means Those drug dealers They're a little like traveling salesmen They've got a foot in the housing projects and as unadulterated as possible. The drug dealer has the power He has social skills that a basic thug from the projects That will allow him without frightening them. There's another way It'd be surprising if drug dealers hadn't tried E-commerce. Neil Walsh is the head It's pure magic, premium-quality cocaine. It says that simply put, this uncut cocaine is the best Why do customers buy drugs Do they feel that it's safer? Do they feel that it minimizes their risk? Instead of going down maybe increasing the likelihood of arrest, What is it? It's nothing more than a photo. Are you going to take the risk to someone you don't know, and hope that this thing, is delivered to you? I know a few people who have tried it, and it has rarely worked out That explains why less than one percent From the growing fields to consumers, the cocaine industry is characterized It has an army of dealers What happens to the money Who benefits from the crime? The drug trafficking economy but it's also a business In other terms, but there are substantial that the mafia has to finance. What is true for the legal economy That's the opinion of Manuel Benavides, project manager Drug trafficking is essentially It's an illegal one, Drug trafficking is like but because it's clandestine, you don't know where their boards meet. We know there are technicians, and then handles the problems in the areas where they operate. To solve its problems, mafias use techniques to the business strategies They stray a bit from the concepts In the same way drug trafficking, with its own logic, What is this marketing? It's buying the goodwill of authorities Spending money can only be called one thing. Corruption. If mafia-style marketing there's always lobbying. It's common practice to try to put pressure on politicians in order to convince them to vote for laws With dealers, the principle is the same. The only thing that changes is the method. Lobbying is the job of sicarios, You have to recognize in Latin America. It's something Police are decapitated as a preventative measure. If you're good at drug trafficking, or cause your children The job of a customs agent in Africa or Latin America is a thousand times riskier In Colombia, the price cartels pay is around 650 euros. These expenses are included We now have all the necessary information to see why a kilo of cocaine sells for 60,000 euros in Rotterdam. In Peru, the producer's price It's pure, This kilo arrives in Europe. The wholesalers have already cut it. Now there are two kilograms of cocaine. It's now 50% pure, with a total wholesale value Retailers cut it again and again. Now there are four kilograms of cocaine, The total value is 200,000 euros. If you analyze these figures, you can see that the price of a kilo from the producer to the consumer. However, the price only increased between the wholesaler and the consumer. What we do know is that so few people make a lot of money, Here's the explanation. At the retail level, there are many people and most of them hardly make any income. There were some studies that showed if you would earn a decent income. The people who manage transit and the people growing it in the end-consumer market make little of the overall percentage The money is not where it's produced. Many think that the traffickers are there, but the money comes There is a sense of uncertainty. There's a lot of frustration While they're forced the financial centers in other parts through the transit of money. Oleksiy Feshchenko heads the worldwide for the United Nations Office There are criminals who invent mechanisms to enjoy the proceeds of crime in such a way that thereby rendering governments On average, we can say that around 50% The rest is used shipping, and expenses. A large part of the profits is spent especially by small dealers. There's many of them, but these amounts are too small When it comes to laundering mafias turn to what should be called Money laundering was a direct part Pablo Escobar had money launderers They were part of the organization. They still exist, There are far more specialists but they're specialists and they offer their services. We just started What we found looks dangerous, because it's kind of like and an illegal one. Imagine there are about 200 bank accounts. Every day, from each account, money is transferred to three It's like a huge tumbler. &quot;Alexi, do you want to transfer money &quot;This is the entry point, &quot;and then you'll get your money back Perhaps through several payments or I may not even receive money but I will obtain documents that show I'm the happy owner somewhere in, say, the Indian Ocean. It may be metal tubes, Then, immediately, I get the contact details of two companies and they will pay me money. Thus, I just signed a document, and now I'm a happy businessman I am clean. This money cannot be associated with the original crime, It's almost impossible to trace it. It's clear that mafias excel at every level of the economic chain. They exploit all of the loopholes, the opportunities both in business and finance. The ways of fighting drug trafficking but new markets are emerging, offering potentially huge profits I don't expect another massive decline in the foreseeable future, Maybe a mild decline, Asia and the Middle East The fundamental truth is that Similarly, just as production shifts, The organizations are the main economic constraint and they have no choice but to continue Considering the logic of this traffic, we're not close to ending the fight Whatever the political concerning the production you realize there is an enormous quantity that generates Perhaps that's the other key. Money. Shouldn't we focus on this What percentage is being seized by authorities? As I told you before, we now have around 50% of the cocaine It's a huge amount. Do you know how much is on the money side? Less than one percent. The best estimate was 0.2%. Between the licit and the illicit, One of these contact points In my opinion, Who installs offices in tax havens? Without exception, there are offices and branches that manage the financial flow Such jurisdictions and havens exist There are people who want to avoid taxes. There are criminals There are husbands who want to hide money This is a segment of the market. It's relatively small, but it exists. There are also companies aggressive tax planning They are not happy with the high taxes so they're finding different ways If there is a tool available, both criminals and non-criminals. I don't believe you can ever I think we've learned that very well That's what we mean the idea of more effort being required. &quot;We need to get tougher on it, It's nonsense and won't ever work. You're fighting against an economic force, It's self-defeating. The simplest way is to make an agreement Why don't we make such an agreement? Let's say that human nature is ambiguous, That's a poetic way of saying and that it's not only mafias that cocaine trafficking generates. Legal or illegal, business is business.