Continuing on with my series on how to make the barrel channel cut and now I'm going to I'll be using the plunge router for most of channel I need a stable base for the router. Unlike that however I'm going to be removing so I'll really have to rely on these side bit. To give an idea, I'll take the stock I'm duplicating it. You can see how the stock tapers away from If I didn't have a solid base for the router To add the side supports, just like for the down on a flat surface and put the stock in I'll add these spacer blocks as well, you'll And then I'll clamp it all together and transfer Now I have a solid flat surface for the router. These spacer blocks add a gap between the only to route right up to the edge without easily test fit the action. Something I'll be doing a lot in this video. The Krag magazine sticks out the side of the that I have here. So once I begin inletting, I'll be able to this setup. I have the action aligned where I want it I'm going to mark the areas where it's touching Right here at the right front of the magazine, is straight up and down. It's also touching at the right rear and it's down with the router. I can use a square to both verify and draw I can also get low and verify that those two And those are where I'll make my first cuts. The router bit I'll be using most is this I'll set it up a bit further out than I typically And I'll remove the fence, it's not needed Now I'll remove the two areas that I marked I only went about halfway deep. I'll go to full depth later once I get the I also didn't go all the way to the lines I can get more precise with the chisel. I'll start here. Now with the front of the magazine body butting line on the back. I also want to mark how far to cut across These are the areas I just marked. You can see that this goes just over halfway I got pretty close to the line and it's fitting A little tight though. Though it's not centered, I have to relieve The router bit leaves a rounded edge, so any shaped with the chisel. Onto the next spot that's touching. The front left side of the magazine body. I'll use the router here. Followed by a chisel to bring it to the line. Then I can test fit again. A little lower but it's still a very tight As I get the action lower, I may need to revisit This corner for example I need to better match While the action isn't as tight of a fit now, not centered. It needs to move to the left, or back from It's hitting where I just carved so I'll go Looking from above it's touching there. And moving back, looking through the hole centered. I'll take a break now and show their progress. Prior to starting, the action was sitting After what I've done so far I am able to lower But as you can see there's still a bit more And that is the gist of the inletting process, from being lowered into the stock, remove It takes a lot of repeating, and a lot of in a nice snug fit. And that's what I'll do. This time it's the right rear of the magazine area since I'm nowhere close to full depth. Finally the rear tang of the receiver is touching I can trace around it. For cutting I'm going to route a narrow slot trigger goes here. I free handed this slot without adding the on either side and running them along the Next up is this step down on the side of the It's tapered, deeper at the back than at the It's where the spring and the hinge for the I'll only cut the rear of it deeper. As the action goes lower, I'll remove some later on, such as the edges of the rear tang. I'll just be careful not to go too far. I'm going to do two areas next. The front left of the receiver, across to And I'll bring the tang a step deeper. I'm now going to bring the right side of the This opening on the side of the receiver is So I'll measure from there at the front, and for these depths. This will bring these areas to just above on with the chisel. I roughly connected the two areas, I'll revisit I'll repeat the same process with the majority the back to just above full depth with the that connects the two with the chisel. Looks like I need to remove more material transitions down to the rear tang. Now's a good time to step back and take a Last time I showed this angle the tang was This is how much progress I've made since There's another inletting tip that I've avoided and there. And that is to look at the existing stock. I avoided mentioning it to show it's possible to inlet for the action specifically. But if you have a stock, use it. And that's what I did here. Specifically the front of the magazine cut If I didn't have this stock I probably would I also looked at the stock to see how it's need room to move around. The cutout for the tang tapers down to a small What I'm going to do next is to mark and cut I'll use the router fence this time, aligning I couldn't plunge the router enough to cut I'll switch to a drill bit to drill out either While I have the drill bit in the router I it's 90 degrees to the bore axis. The rear screw is at a slight angle, so I Because it's difficult to match the angle until I have the action fully inlet. Hopefully the hole is located in the right Only one way to find out. And that's a nice tight fit. Before I progress to the next stage of the down to the magazine in the tang area that stock. I'm just free handing it now, I can come back interfering with the trigger. I just want to get it close. Here's the comparison. Like I said I can come back later if the trigger It's becoming harder to tell just what is And that's why I have this. Lipstick. I'm told this is an old tube. I'm going to spread it around the underside The idea is that when I put the action in the metal will transfer the lipstick, essentially that need to be removed to lower the action The bright color will also stand out on camera And let's see how it works. I'll give the action a few taps to make sure You can see the high spots clearly marked Now to remove them I see a small amount of transfer on the bottom I want to make sure that it's fully touching. If it is touching, it needs to be relieved Like I said earlier, the side opening is just It looks like it needs to go down a little Removing the action, I can validate that it's I'll get out the router to deepen the tang I'm setting the depth stop for an eighth, Since the whole tang will be below the top extra wood. This will make it easier to inlet since I that I've done in this area and move it down the tang. The action is also touching here in the magazine But I can't get the chisel low enough to cut It's time to remove these sideboards. With the sideboards removed I can get a much to go. I'll connect the two ends of the magazine with the chisel, working from the side. There's still a gap at the bottom but it matches Back to the tang area I ran out of the lipstick so I got a new one. Since it's a different color, I wiped it all This fresh stick is easier to use. I'm going to put it over all the areas that I'll also use it up on the underside of the Though I cut and shaped the barrel channel fit the action fully until now. I'll put the action back into the stock. And you can see there's a large area where I'll use the gouge on the barrel channel, as well since it is a large area that needs Looking at the side view, I think I'm at the is just over the top of the stock. There are some small gaps where I cut a little the left, but nothing too major. From here on out I just need to fine tune Moving down to the barrel, it's high at the where it should be. I'll press down, flexing the barrel. I'm looking for a spot where I can't. There it is. I'm expecting to see lipstick transfer in And there that is. I'm only going to use the sandpaper to bring over a large area. Now is the point where I need to switch mindsets. I have been working to remove areas where at full depth those transferred areas become Where the metal is touching the wood. There's a large spot on the barrel channel. Other important areas are the receiver screws. The front one isn't touching. From the side view earlier it was low. The rear screw is touching. Ideally the whole area that's inlet should would be a perfect fit to the action, but me. There are important areas that should be fully They are the area around the two action screws, the sides, the front of the receiver and the I'm going to be applying the epoxy between the lipstick from the action. This is the epoxy I'll be using, Acra Glas I'll start by applying the release agent to Acra Glas comes in two varieties. The regular is very thin, almost watery. This gel is thick and won't spread out as That's why I'm going to be using it for this. I'll scoop out roughly equal portions of each. Mix it up. Add a few drops of black dye. And mix it again. I'm going to put the front action screw into I don't want the screw pushing epoxy up into Now I'll apply it to the areas of the stock I'm going to be careful applying it around I don't have the stock drilled for the rear up into the screw hole in the action. Now I'll carefully drop the action into the I'll tighten my action screw. But the compression of the epoxy will require I'll add clamps at the front. And the rear of the action. After the action is clamped, there is some the rear tang. I want to remove it before it cures and prevents Then I'll reapply the clamp before leaving It's been over 12 hours and the leftover epoxy Now to remove the clamps. And the screw. I'm always nervous that I won't be able to But out it comes. The underside looks good. The epoxy looks good too. I'm not sure why it's not solid black, maybe It is smooth to the touch however. Now to peel off this blue film which is the I do have a bit of cleanup work to do, particularly areas. There is a rough spot on the tang here, but will be. I'll save that for when I shape the wrist. The rest of the epoxy is nice and smooth. Test fitting. The action is a very snug fit now. But before I say I'm finished inletting, I Flipping the stock over, these two holes are I'll connect them and then chisel out the I'll put the trigger in the action. And test the function. Looks like it needs more room to move. I'll get up the lipstick again and coat the With the action back in, I'll move the trigger Looks like it needs more relief at the front I can feel the trigger now has a full range it and the sear moves fully up and down as The second, and last area of the inletting Aligning the screw holes, I'll trace around it out. With lipstick around the side plate, I'll And then drop that in. It's touching at the back, these two vertical And the curve needs some attention too. I'm happy with that fit. There's a gap at the bottom corner, but it's At the front there's a larger gap between stock has a gap here too. Tt's consistent though. There is the magazine door on the other side, it just needs the stock slimmed down. And that's the next step, to shape the exterior. The inletting is a long, tedious process but fit. Of course I could have cut corners and later the wood fit as tightly as possible and only support. That's all for this video. See you next time as I move on to shaping Thanks for watching!