So I'm laying on the couch the other I have to pay a toll from New And I, the former Apple employee and In this video, I'll start by telling you about and then show you how to set up your Back to the scam I fell for, and it's a new one. They sent it late at night, so I I didn't realize what had happened until and saw a really terrible-looking And that's where they blew it. Whose fault is this, really? accountability, and yes, I fell for it. but New York did a lot of things wrong. website, you dum-dums? And here's how they work. website that looks like a real one, something like this real one protection a couple of weeks ago. about to be charged over $400 Which of course I don't Unless I log in within the These kinds of emails used because they'd have obvious Nowadays, thanks to AI like ChatGPT, to make them look like the real thing. about your Norton subscription or anything else, type in Norton subscription login, Back to the scam I fell for on the couch, the experts now call smishing, through an SMS text message. You get the text message, you click a link, Next, advance fee scams, especially on social media platforms like X, And a couple of our subscribers from people who were pretending to be us. people who trust us, got a message saying that they want an iPhone, which apparently we were charging $100 for. these people after the fact, and they sent us the money, except they didn't. thing after they messaged us, And we said, what phone? These advance fee scams in exchange for something very valuable. but enough to make it worth their while. in a way where you can't get your money back In our case, they asked to and family, not regular PayPal, This is the red flag. for something like shipping or Bitcoin, or a non-refundable money order. targets iPhone users. When you go to reset your Apple ID password, to enter a six-digit verification code. that scammers have figured out Here's how it works. asking for permission to A few minutes later, you'll get a phone call And the scammer, pretending to be Apple support, that one-time passcode they Of course, Apple says in those text messages but you think it's them on And that six-digit one-time passcode is the key and there's nothing you can do to get it back. about resetting your passcode and you didn't request to do that, The second lesson here is not to trust caller ID, about the privacy settings you need to change We'll drop a link at the end of this video. taking over the online dating scene, It's basically catfishing. it's when a beautiful woman is actually a 45-year-old man A friend of a friend recently and sent thousands of dollars It was sad because the person was lonely, Other times, let's just say if from someone offering to come to your house don't send them the money. Next, another scam that's on These typically target wealthy individuals except that a lot of people made a lot of money I myself made $17,000 in three months back in 2020 because I was staring at it all day, every day, In one popular investment scam, their elite group of investors anywhere between 1,000 and 5,000 pounds per day. we'd all be doing it. Join our YouTube channel instead, of all the settings we talk about in this video, and those other essential privacy settings. The PDFs are real, and so Click that Join button below if you're interested Next up, the job scam. You apply for a remote job and even go through an interview. with everything you need to get started. And ask you just to pay for shipping. They're just trying to steal your money. Even if you don't give them the money, your personal information And they're going to sell that to other scammers. This one's pretty straightforward. and says something like, you're going to go to jail. government agencies will never call, email, text, or message you on social media They will always send you a letter in the mail, But it's not like you can If you think there might be a my suggestion is to search Google ask them if you really are about to go to jail. Next, we've all heard of identity theft, A brand new kind of identity theft scam, uses AI as powerful as chat GPT that they later use against you. The scammer leaves a voicemail and they're here to help. you end up speaking with a very real sounding Shortly thereafter, the real and asks you a bunch of questions things like your name Next, they'll apologize and your computer got hacked for their crappy software. your credit card information. they'll ask if they have permission When you say yes, surprise, there's no refund. for an expensive subscription service We'll use Blue Apron as an example. but one day this box of food You call Blue Apron. You call your credit card but they won't give you your money back either the scammer has the recording of you saying yes. which Zek learned about by watching KitBoga, They use their affiliate link and then Blue Apron pays them a commission So in this example, both you Blue Apron, are the victims. from these kinds of scams? can change on your phone. First up, spammers hate live voicemail. which lets you see a text version of a voicemail so you can decide whether to pick up. spam callers don't like the when you tap the live voicemail button. This works especially well with robocaller scams to the live voicemail prompt. when someone calls you, Go to settings, scroll all the way down to phone, here to live voicemail, next to live voicemail is turned on. of scam texts like me, way to filter them out. I'm already here, so I'm going to go back then scroll down to messages tap on that, then scroll down and make sure the switch to is turned on. from people in your contacts It doesn't actually block scam but there are ways to do that. robotext blocking apps A couple of popular ones are Truecaller has a free version I'm just going to install this app real quick. something magical happens in Before, we saw filter unknown senders in here, but now we just see unknown and spam. has moved inside here along with SMS filtering. and now my text messages are Wireless carriers like AT&amp;T and Verizon but generally they're a rip off. not just to save money, switch carriers in the future, Recently, more and more scammers rather than text messages. so they can never bother anybody again. delete one of those messages, And as I like to say, not every spam is a scam with lots of text messages. The next time you get an annoying reply with the word stop to opt Next up, silence junk callers. I'm in messages. come back to settings and tap back to messages, then scroll down here to call tap on that, and then silence Make sure the switch next to that is turned on. calls identified by your carrier as spam If you don't see this though, Not all carriers do. make a scammer's life miserable, guns and report them to the FTC. which was not created by the dum-dums at New York, Click the big report now button on their website, We'll drop a link in the And a quick helpful tip for everyone. we all know how companies ask for your email, other personal information you stuff in the future. get hacked, or in some cases, it's spam city for you. phone number away if you don't have to. we won't judge you. Watch our video about the number you need to change to stay safe next.