As the free-wheeling, hard-hitting drummer notorious musicians out there. As the band's youngest member, his entire lifestyle, for better and for worse. Here are some of the dark details from Tommy Tommy Lee's tape with Pamela Anderson is ridiculously interesting as its contents. In 1995, the couple fired several workers This did not sit well with one electrician, that he was reportedly ready to walk away for the unfinished work. When the electrician returned to the house himself facing a shotgun-wielding Lee ordering This was the final straw for the working man, safe he knew Lee kept in the garage. One successful heist later, the electrician far more valuable than mere jewelry and family most famous superstar couple of the time, personal one-on-one footage. In an amusing twist, the electrician just industry. With the help of his contacts, the tape was to the public, for a price. Despite the panicked couple's best efforts wildfire. By 1997, it was such a cultural staple that In 2007, the MTV Video Music Awards featured Lee and Kid Rock engaged in some quick fisticuffs Since both men had been married to Pamela seemed obvious, but Rock insists the real He says the fight was the culmination of a disrespectful actions that took place during Rock promised to retaliate for the long stretch reportedly, he had already attempted to track room door on the previous New Year's Eve, a terrified family instead. As for Lee, he insists he had merely been insists on calling &quot;Kid Pebble,&quot; turned up, Lee insists he was fully intent on winning him out of the building. To be fair, he did apologize for his role performing at the time. The death of a child is always a nightmare, a kid's birthday party? Well, that's even more disturbing. This exact scenario played out at Tommy Lee's boy attended the birthday celebrations of later found floating face-down, deceased, According to reports, Lee made a 911 call left alone and unsupervised for a brief period so chaotic that he didn't know what to do. Though the boy's parents blamed the drummer he was cleared of any responsibility. The jury in the case found that the death in which the boy's nanny left the party early tasked with looking after him left him unattended. In 1996, Tommy Lee grew angry at a cameraman and threw the poor guy on the ground. This already unwise move reportedly turned cameraman was Jewish, and Lee had attacked in his arm. Yes, a swastika tattoo. Lee moved to have the tattoo covered, hoping He later said that the symbol was, quote, Lee had the tattoo removed and pleaded no He was sentenced to two years of probation, restitution payment to the photographer. MTV reports that Lee later settled a civil to make amends by shaking hands with his victim... stepped in to block the attempt. In 1997, Tommy Lee and Nikki Sixx got a little Coliseum, North Carolina... by which we mean and trying to incite an ethnically motivated Reportedly, Sixx was the first to start attacking joined in to pour a drink on the guard's head. The poor man's extremely bad day at work further people in the crowd to attack him. Fortunately, the situation didn't escalate mention that the crowd pelted the guard and he had to climb on the stage to escape the Sixx was arrested two years later when Motley Lee promptly turned himself in as well. The drummer was charged with assault and inciting to avoid the racial aspects of the case by which he was sentenced to an 18-month probation. The inevitable civil lawsuit by the guard The three-year marriage of Tommy Lee and Pamela relationships out there. They got married in early 1995 after a whirlwind after the blissful honeymoon period. Arguments escalated into violence, with Anderson her while she was holding their infant child. Finally, one brawl inspired Anderson to call The drummer ended up pleading no contest to He served four months of a six-month sentence perform community service, and donate $5,000 He also had to avoid alcohol and drugs and However, in 2000 the musician violated his jail as a result. Motley Crue's members have obviously been favorite vices all vary. For his part, Lee insists he's not the &quot;deviant some of the people closest to him seem to His son Brandon has reportedly called him thing his loved ones have said about the subject. Ex-wife Pamela Anderson called Lee out on titled &quot;Alcoholism is the Devil&quot; on her website. Anderson says the text is the first time she and it paints a fairly hopeless picture of Though she does point out that Lee is a talented quote, &quot;narcissist/sociopath.&quot; &quot;Two new babies. Tommy comes third now, instead of first. I'm a new father. I don't know how to deal with that.&quot; Still, perhaps the harshest words in her writing &quot;Nobody understands the lifetime of disappointment Consistently the center of sadness, drama Jealous of his sons' talent and beauty from He is sick.&quot; A generous way to describe Tommy Lee's relationship In 2018, his oldest son straight up punched The details are just as hazy as you'd expect but reportedly, it's agreed by both Lee and living with his father at the time, stormed a brief argument. According to Brandon, the situation was triggered about his mother on social media. The son also insinuates that his father's fight, and the reason he was living part-time abuse troubles and organize an intervention. Regardless of the intentions, Tommy Lee was and wanted to press charges for what must finally deciding to drop it. In early 2019, Motley Crue's star was revitalized autobiography The Dirt. All the attention has also warranted a second one of which has raised some serious questions. In the book, bassist Nikki Sixx appears to Lee once committed at a party. According to the book, Sixx approached Lee that he was in the middle of an intimate moment his return. The men agreed that Lee would sneak in the without telling the woman. Without her consent, Lee subbed in to have him, playing along. As Sixx tells it, this woman later called by a stranger while trying to hitchhike home When Sixx heard this, he says, it occurred he and Lee had assaulted her too. Unsurprisingly, Sixx backtracked on the disgusting and now says he doesn't remember these events, story as a part of his drug-addled interviews Lee, on the other hand, appears to have stayed Tommy Lee is known for the extravagant drum complex mechanical contraptions. One of his most famous tricks is the drum flavors: a circular coaster that has Lee's &quot;Cruecify'&quot; rig that carries him high above Lee is fiercely protective of his stunts, rapper Travis Scott for using similar rigs action over Twitter. However, Scott's legal team quickly pointed concert roller coasters, and the actual creator full permission to use them. Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the