I lived in New York for years, and I think it has some of I've invited my friend to teach him how we do things slightly differently over here. We'll be visiting four of across the city all in one day to see if we can find This is &quot;Food Tours.&quot; Our first stop of the day is We're at Utopia Bagels in Second-best Fountains of Wayne album. And the reason I took you it's got dynamite bagels, and although we're off the beaten path, so maybe not a lot of don't get me wrong, buddy. They make so many bagels here. Over 100,000 a week. That's a lot of bagels. Dude, they go through So many bagels! Joe: Dude, the oven they which of course was ... Just after. Joe: Yes. So I figured for the we're getting the bagels and lox. Joe: Have you ever had I have. In the UK we call it a salmon Oh, my God. You have a lot to learn, my friend. What do you think makes a good bagel? Harry: So, I'm looking for I want it seasoned on both sides. So if we got, like, everything bagel, we need toppings on Don't be skimping on it. Crackly crust on the outside, nice and chewy inside. And then the toppings have We need the salmon to be good, the cream cheese to be good. Everything's got to work together. Joe: Yes. I agree. For me, what I look for That helps on a food show. Some places attempt to just overfill for the sake of overfilling it, whereas actually, like, I don't want that. I'd rather have fewer toppings, and therefore it holds together I want everything in one bite. So don't be stacking. Interesting thing about bagels and lox, which I've heard before and but it sounds like it's true, and that's all we need for the internet, is that bagels and lox it was a reaction to eggs And you're half Jewish? I am half Jewish, yeah. Joe: Have you ever gone No, I'm not a very good Jew. I'm 50% Ashkenazi Jewish, which is the type of Jewish Eastern Europe and then many So, honestly, they've kind of So I feel like I'm experiencing, like, a spiritual homecoming with this episode. I'm very excited. Joe: I'm starving. Harry: I'm so hungry. Hold the table. I'm Harry: I got it. Joe: Pew! Harry: Ooh! Joe: Look at this beast. There you go. Harry: Man. Look at this thing! Look how much lox they gave us, bro. Harry: That is thick. Joe: This look good, right? Incredible amount of lox, as you can see. Tomato, capers, cream cheese. Also got raw red onion on there. All on an everything bagel. First impressions, what do you think? Harry: This looks fantastic. Like you say, generous with the salmon. I will say the tomato kind So for a second I thought a pure wedge of salmon. Harry: Some of it is tomato. Harry: Still pretty generous. I'm not complaining. Bagel's still a little bit You feeling that? straight out of the oven, the 1947 oven. Harry: Should we give it a try? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Mm. Mm! Oh, man. Joe: The crunch. That taste like a bagel you're This is the first bagel and it already might be I've had in London. Believe it. You guys normally and raw red onion and that stuff? Not really. Some delis I'd say the standard one in the UK if you ask for, like, a bagel and lox or a bagel with salmon and cream cheese will just be salmon and cream cheese, without the onion, without the It's very much just a plain sandwich. But I'm liking all these toppings. I do think they work together. Joe: Yeah, it's great. I would've never thought the, like, fish for breakfast But that's amazing. Harry: I'd say fish for that's super uncommon to Europeans. I think in Jewish culture, and even in Scottish culture, you will find fish on the So that's not super weird to us. But yeah, this really, really works. Joe: Yeah. Harry: I was worried when I Generally speaking, not a huge fan of tomatoes in sandwiches, but this really works. It's actually got some crunch to it. A little bit of flavor. I think they've actually Joe: Yeah. As you can tell, it's clutch for places like this, the fact they're just making them all day, so they're getting them At other places, they got them These bagels, this is amazing You can really, really You bite into it and there's Joe: They're making 15,000 of these a day. Harry: That's so many. That's really good to pretty much any time of day It does make a difference. Joe: That's how they do it here. Yeah. And anyone will tell you gotta pair with a beverage. I of course went with coffee, How does that pair with the blue Gatorade? Perfectly. So well. When in Rome, you know? Is this a European thing right here? Gatorade for breakfast? This is not, no. This is just me being a little bit sleepy. We're like pro athletes, man. We've got to eat our way We need as many Yeah. Yeah. I agree. I will say, I think this It had all the elements that I wanted. The bagel itself was fantastic. Crunchy on the outside, Everything held together that they were generous They didn't stack. Harry: They didn't stack. No stacking. So yeah, I think this might It's a good start. Well, I'm ready to hit it. You Harry: I think so. Our next location has been for over 32 years. Liberty Bagels. All right. Look at me. Liberty Bagel, Queens. Not to be confused with the This is the other one. Or the Statue of Liberty. Different place. And we're currently not I want make it clear, that. I know you had asked if I had gone there. Joe: We're nowhere near it, I don't think. This spot, fantastic Also, I noticed on the menu You probably saw that all Yeah, I mean, I'm seeing posters. It says the &quot;home of the rainbow bagel.&quot; Were these guys, like, No clue. [Harry laughs] Kind of like how you see &quot;Best in New York City,&quot; a lot of them are like, We're definitely getting the cream cheese, the I also do want to get a I mean, it's like, it became for better or for worse. So we'll get one of those as well. Yeah, the rainbow bagel's But, you know, feel like Insider specifically Yes, they do, and I was part of that, and you're welcome, and We can tell the viewers a conference room in our That is how deeply the Insider connection with rainbow bagels run. So yeah, I guess we can But the lox is the main event. That'll be fun too. Joe: So, I'm going on what's So this one I want to and scallion cream cheese, but it does not have Also comes on the poppy seed bun, so all urine tests are off. Good. I will not let anyone just to be on the safe side. Uh-huh. I'm excited. Joe: I picked this location because at their other location, the best bagel in New And I couldn't imagine it there than here. But the good people at Tripadvisor said that Liberty Bagels are No. 1. We're going to see if Joe when it comes to bagels, then. If there's one thing I've learned in my years on this planet is that what everyone says on the internet is probably correct all the time. I think that is absolutely true. I like it in here. Nice I'm excited to try the bagels. Joe: Feast your eyes on this, my guy. Oh, ho-ho-ho-ho-hm-mm! They definitely made it and the salmon are two different zones. Yeah. Distinct layers there. Joe: Again, a lot of people, if it's piled high in the fish. You want everything in one bite. I don't want just one bite of fish. I don't want to OD on the fish. I want a taste of everything. Quality over quantity, I think. Yeah, it's important. Joe: Yeah. I think proportion-wise -- and very generous with the cream cheese, also what I like. Capers and scallions. Harry: And this thing is Top and bottom, good coverage. Joe: See that there? Ready to jump in? Harry: I'm so ready. Joe: Let's do it. Uh-oh! Had a bit of a -- oh. Mine did smoosh a little bit. Harry: Little bit of smooshing. I'm also getting poppy seeds everywhere. Tomato's good. Quite firm. Good bite to the tomato. The bagel's fantastic. Harry: The bagel is really good. It's a fresh bagel. Yep. I'd say maybe not the but the inner texture That's got that chew Joe: Now that we've had a I'm a bit biased towards and the scallion versus the red onion. I'm not saying that it's but knowing that made this more I do love red onion, don't get me wrong. Scallions, I like. Yeah, I don't think I miss the red onion at all, to be honest. Joe: Because you're getting from two locations. Two ingredients. Little one-two allium punch there. There's no lack of want when is that what I'm trying to say? What I'm tasting the I'm not getting a lot Let me get another bite. Harry: I kind of disagree. I feel like it's got a I don't know. So, like, in the UK, if you ever get a salmon you're going to get smoked salmon. Is that an everywhere thing in the US or is that kind of optional? It's not. It's to the place's discretion. I'm glad you asked that. So it's not always going to be smoked. I don't think it's smoked here, is it? Harry: Maybe quite mildly. Definitely not a strong smoky flavor, but I do think it's got Maybe it's getting slightly lost in the scallion cream cheese, for example. Joe: Yeah, that could be it. And like I say, they were which does mean that when for a second, it's like, boom. I feel the capers stand I'm not quite sure why I think in general the I'm not that mad about the ratio. Look at the cream cheese, man. Generous. Joe: They were generous which is always nice. But that's making it squishy, man. You're squishing. I quite like when you get a cream cheese and it's quite sour and a bit tangy. I'd say this one's more That's really funny because I want the cream cheese because to me I want the bagel So is this more up your with the way that this cream cheese works? I am, as far as the way does or does not stand out. I think, see, I'm just, I'm an oniony boy. All right? My persona is just onion. So you're an oniony boy. I'm more of a tang boy, I would say. I'm more of a tangy boy. I want a bit of tang The capers, I like. Extra tang, you know. You ate -- come on, man. Harry: I couldn't stop myself, It was a good bagel. RIP the last place we have to go to, because you're just going to be like, &quot;How is it?&quot; &quot;Fine. Let's go home.&quot; All right. You couldn't come to New York without trying a rainbow bagel. Hang on. I didn't say the rainbow bagel's good. It just became uniquely New York for maybe the wrong reasons. It was a viral sensation. So, wa-pow. Joe: Well, and also, I Harry: Oh that's, like, vibrant. Joe: I know, right? Ugh. Look at this thing! Charlie: All of those colors Joe: Yeah. You're going to really aggressive for some unknown reason. More hyperactive than I've ever been. Joe: You can't get this So you say you've had this before? Joe: Yeah, I have. Harry: And this is the Joe: Yeah, little more food Harry: I can't say I'm but let's give it a try. Joe: Ew. Like frosting. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Who doesn't like Harry: I don't actually hate it as much as I thought I would. It's like a dessert bagel, right? Joe: We're adding frosting. I certainly couldn't I certainly would not be, like, having that on the way to work. I would walk into the office, &quot;Let's go!&quot; Like, that sugar high would And then 20 minutes Americans love dessert for breakfast. We do, don't we? You guys love pancakes, waffles, Joe: Our cereal is really sweet, right? So I don't know if you at a rainbow bagel with cream cheese. But I will say, texture on I would say this one Uh-oh. This one might have even more Joe: Than what? Than the previous one we just tried. Joe: So if you were to order again, you'd get this with the rainbow bagel? Harry: No, I think maybe had a fresh poppy seed. Let me cleanse my palate Harry: Get some savory back Back online. No time to waste, my man. Ready for the next bagel? I am, yeah. Can we run there so that I can burn off this energy high? Joe: That was the plan. No, immediately not working. Joe: From Queens, we made to continue our bagel tour. Next up, Tompkins Square Bagels. All right, we're at Tompkins Square Bagels right by the Tompkins This place is amazing. Also another spot that does I haven't explained that Take the dough, throw right before they bake it. It gives the outside crisp, almost crackery crust. Nice. All I know about this place is that it's Timothee Chalamet's And who is that? He's a guy. Harry: Hit me with some bagel facts, Joe. Joe: All right, bagel Created by Eastern European Originated in Poland. Harry: Mm-hmm. It was food often given The circle shape represents There you go. Truly is everything in a bagel, you know? Yeah. They made a reference to or death in &quot;Everything Yes. And &quot;The Lion King.&quot; There's bagels in &quot;The Lion King&quot;? Harry: No, but there's a circle of life. Joe: Oh. Joe: But there's a everything bagel in &quot;Everything Everywhere All at Once.&quot; Harry: There is, correct. I just made the connection Harry: Mm-hmm. I can't help it, I can't having two other screens in front of me. You need, like, &quot;Family Guy&quot; clips playing while you watch a movie. And at the end, I'm like, Totally got it.&quot; Harry: &quot;I got the gist. It's fine.&quot; Man, it's been, what, like, an hour since we last ate a bagel? Joe: I don't know about Harry: I could go for a bagel right now. Joe: Oh-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho. Bro, what the hell! Are you kidding me? Harry: That thing is stacked! Thank you! Here we go. Joe: All right. So, I don't but this one has got a lot of stuff. So this is a packed-out bagel. Joe: Cream cheese, sesame bagel. Harry: Mm-hmm. Capers. Capers involved again. Harry: It's got all the key elements. It's got the sesame seeds Joe: Yep. You've mentioned that before, where you're like, &quot;Oh, and the bottom.&quot; Like, it always is. Is it not like that in the UK? Not really, no. Joe: No! So you get a I mean, sesame bagels Some of them will be. I feel like if you do get That's not normal. Very hard to come by an everything So in terms of the actual bagel options, we're pretty limited, whereas over here you guys have got it figured out. This is beautiful. I just for a bit longer before I bite into it. I will say, I've said it I'm not big on the stacking. It's an aggressively stacked bagel. Which makes it harder to Harry: We'll see how it holds up. How big do they think my maw is? I mean, I've got a pretty Joe: Yeah. Not me, though. Harry: Good luck. OK. Mm. Joe: Cream cheese is definitely hitting. Mm-hmm. Joe: The salmon's fantastic. Could do a little less tomato. Not a fan of the tomato Joe: Not a fan of it. Like, Sure. Now, first time we've done sesame bagel. I'm liking it. The bagel itself, excellent. So, like, crispy-crunchy on the outside and a good amount of Joe: Oh, my God. And red onion? This is, like, the Harry: This is a very oniony bagel. Joe: And I am not complaining, buddy. I want to take just a and just try that on its own as well. Mm. So, I get more of a which personally I love. That's what I'm used to in the UK. If you get salmon like this, it's generally going to be smoked. I just think it adds such a lovely flavor. My thing's going sideways over here, bud. Ooh, just bit into a caper. Caper bomb. Harry: Caper bomb. I'm going in. I'm going back in. Joe: When I get everything Really impressed with the bagel. Of all the bagels we've had, maybe the crispiest on the outside. Harry: Yeah, the crackle from the outside is so satisfying. Joe: It's onion overload, which might be overshadowing I got so much s--- in my teeth right now. Harry: That's the Zoom in. Show me the monitor. Harry: Oh, God. [laughs] I got it. Harry: One of my few maybe they've done a little bit too much because it's a slightly messy eat. This was the original Xbox thickness of bagel stacking that we've Some people, they're like, One thing I wanted you is, how can I put this? Pastrami lox? Those are two words that Joe: Figure out a way to make it together. You want to check it out? Joe: So it is, look at that, it's salmon that is They got the pepper crust. Right? Get a load of that. So, as someone who's kind of, like, as someone who's pretty new to pastrami, what types of flavors This is a pastrami rub, so it's going to be very pepper heavy, but kind of a smokiness to it. I think that's where you're Because this was, this does Harry: Sure. But that's not the exact salmon that we've had on the bagel, right? No, sir, this is different. Ooh, this is so good. Mm. Joe: This is so good. Does have a pastrami flavor to it, right? Harry: It does. Weird how they did that. Harry: This is going to be but the thing it reminds a hot-dog flavor. Like, the frankfurter kind of seasoning. I get that. I will say this is nicer than a hot dog. It's fantastic. I mean, but I think you guys Let's do Conner first and then, yeah, let's get him, rip a bong hit on there. Right? That tastes exactly like pastrami. You're next. It does kind of taste like a hot dog. Joe: It tastes like pastrami. Harry: Thank you. Hot dog. Yeah, thank you. I would be really tempted instead of just the standard lox. Joe: Go. Go. Go. Put it on there. Remake it. Yeah? Mm-hmm. Don't get too full on bagelness. We got another spot to go to. but I'm [burps] hungry for bagels, baby. I could eat an almost So let's go. Joe: Let's go. Our fourth and final stop was since 1976. Ess-a-Bagel. This might be the most And the most historic. It's Started by an Austrian family. They have a bunch of locations now. This isn't the first one. Harry: It's a nice spot. Lot of real estate here. Joe: Yeah. Right by Convenient to get to. I want to see what the bagels are like. Last one of the day. Here we go. Ooh, baby. Oh, mama. Joe: Want to call to your attention to the first and only appearance of lettuce in our bagels. Is this common? Obviously, I guess not, because it hasn't been in Joe: No, it is not. Harry: How do you feel Joe: I can't imagine the too much on it, I don't think. But I'll reserve that official POV until after I bite into this. Harry: Yeah. I think, like, maybe this has one of the higher filling-to-bread ratios Joe: Oh, yeah. Good point. Harry: This thing is Not a ton of bagel. Joe: Not complaining. Harry: All right, man. Mm. I was wrong. I can really You do get the lettuce, yeah. If I may. Harry: Ooh, the lettuce is coming out. The lettuce has been removed. I will say we've had and I feel like both of us So make of that what you will. Points off for the lettuce, really generous with the Harry: Yeah, it's thickly cut. I thought so, too. That's thickly cut. The Not, like, in-your-face fishy, but, like, you can taste it, which is good. Joe: I really love the thick lox. I'm really impressed with it. Mm! Mm! I'd put this cream cheese again at, like, the kind of gentler end of the scale, which I know you've kind You know, I want the, like, too much of a sour cream cheese flavor. Harry: The cook on the bagel is great. You see these little You can tell it's been kettled. Gets that real nice crust on the outside. If I was to get this again, don't put lettuce anywhere near my bagel. It's enough of biting something and everything going this way. I think lettuce is, like, Emulsifier of that. It's just like, lettuce is like, &quot;All right, It's like when you try and, like, pull the tablecloth out from the table and everything just comes off with it. I feel like that's the effect That's a much better analogy. Overall, really good. Really good. Overall, still a very good bagel. Now is the part of the episode where we do the thing that It's true. We're going to decide All right. For me, I was looking for a combination of everything So I was not very happy with stacking at some of these places. Obviously these are bagel places, so every bagel had to be nice and pillowy, but also crispy on the outside. I think almost every bagel Harry: Mm-hmm. I don't recall disliking any of the lox at any of the places No. I think we've had varying levels of smokiness versus just But overall, I think I agree. Yeah, we've had fresh bagels, pretty much across the board. It's a difficult decision. I've had some of the best When have you had a better bagel than the bagels you had today? What city were you in? Harry: I don't think I have. I do think that on average, these definitely outrank Joe: Yeah, I'd say so too. Harry: Whether it's the tap water, the famous New York tap But I wish that we make them in the UK, because I would be eating these so often. Joe: It's amazing, right? Yeah. Really, really good. I'll just go and say right now, then, my favorite bagel today was, and which bagel of the two, Tompkins Square. Harry: Nice. There was just something Everything worked so well together. I mean, we're really talking we're talking millimeters however we're ranking them, so but Tompkins was just, like, and I've had a chance to think about it, fantastic bagels there. Chalamet knows his stuff, huh? Joe: Yeah, that's right. Chally boy. Again, it's like, there's a hair in this. Joe: Yeah. I think it's Utopia for me. Joe: Wow. OK. All right. Harry: Those were really, It was the fact that they had They're churning out fresh bagels all throughout the day. You can go in there pretty much anytime, breakfast, lunch, dinner, I think the ratio of fillings was good, ingredients were good quality, everything in that bagel and I think it was excellent. Considering that we've eaten I'm still feeling pretty good. Joe: I am stuffed to the [Joe laughs]