For almost ten years, the United States had Bin Laden, the terrorist mastermind behind three thousand Americans and triggered a war While the United States had toppled the Taliban, at the time of the attacks, they had never That was about to change. The CIA had been searching for Bin Laden's He had managed to escape from Afghanistan, to the neighboring country of Pakistan. But in the mountainous, rural regions of Pakistan, for him to stay under the radar. The government had been looking for leads 2010, when their leads led them to a compound They began taking surveillance footage of to breach it. What followed was one of the trickiest intelligence-gathering The compound was heavily guarded and in enemy The US had to rely heavily on local help to months they spied on the three-story building. They learned every detail about the building, For one thing, the infamous terror leader they were never able to capture an image of So everything was still circumstantial, but able to conclude that this was were Osama Now it was time to take action. It was April 29th when President Obama was Many within his security team were skeptical wrong, top US troops would either be killed Not only would this be a disastrous loss of of the US' biggest secrets if they were information. And with the doubts that Bin Laden truly in the risk. Ultimately, the President disagreed - and become Operation Neptune Spear. And the people carrying it out would be the Meet Seal Team 6. An elite squadron of the highly-trained Navy Operations Command and carry out some of the is involved with. These include hostage rescue, special espionage infrastructure, and direct action against Laden. They would be briefed on the mission, which Officially, the US has the policy of never - but no one involved in the mission had any And to pull this all off they had to implement The planning had been going on for the better started coming in, and many strategies had The easiest would have been a joint operation government wasn't exactly friendly and the off in advance. The US also considered striking at the compound Bin Laden - but there would be no way of following tricky terror leader had managed to escape So instead, the government decided to go old-school. Seal Team 6 would be flown in using modified to be quiet and would be able to fly in under The Pakistani military had been heavily trained were known - and the US was confident they The goal was to get to the compound without forces - and once the target was down, they May 1st, 1:22 PM. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta received the William McRaven to move ahead with the operation. Within the next two hours, President Obama to the Situation Room to watch the whole thing to them from a drone. The roughly 24 Navy SEALS sent on the mission of the CIA, so it would technically not be as an act of war. These were going to be some of the most critical for the men on the ground, every single minute While the roughly two dozen SEALs were the were 79 commandos and a dog involved in the The dog, a Belgian Malinois named Cairo, was - including the Pakistani military approaching The core team was backed up by a dog handler, and tech experts who would make it all possible. But the success or failure of the mission And one wrong move could spell doom. 3:30 AM - give or take. Two helicopters descend on the Abbottabad While the other helicopters stand by in case the primary mission. Flying low to the ground, the stealthy Black While the first deploys ropes to lower its far northeast corner to covertly drop off If everything went smoothly, they would soon But everything didn't go smoothly. While the helicopters weren't detected and nature had something to say. The first helicopter flew into what's known caused by higher-than-expected temperatures The rotor's air pressure didn't diffuse and it grazed the back of the compound wall. The tail rotor was seriously damaged, and The quick-thinking pilot drove the helicopter collapse, and the SEALs and crew were able Now the only question was - had this blown The answer seemed to be no, as there was no The SEALs had successfully weathered a crash was secure against the compound walls, and the compound. The rest of the team was scaling the walls, The next step was breaching the compound - and came in. They needed to get in quickly and hit the Outside, preparation was key - but once they Ten years of searching had come down to this. 3:33 AM - To get through the security, the the doors of the compound's guest house, They breached the compound and began storming The first room they encountered on the first of them was Osama bin Laden. They were detained, but they weren't the More disturbing - every floor seemed to contain This wasn't just a terrorist compound - it families, regardless of all the danger they And with every floor the SEALs ascended, the 3:35 - What happened next? Reports of that may vary. As they reached the second floor, they encountered This is where Bin Laden's courier, Abu Ahmed would controversially write a book on the He claimed that al-Kuwaiti was armed and fired While one SEAL was lightly injured, they returned However, intelligence sources later said that man after cutting power to the compound and What was clear was that they still hadn't 3:37 - It was time to ascend once again, and the SEALs headed into the house. They had encountered the courier, as well either been killed or captured. As they ascended the staircase, they encountered of hope. After the Al Qaeda soldier was killed, the Laden - one of the terror leader's many And if he was there, the odds were good his 3:39 - There was only one floor left to be themselves for yet another disappointment. This was clearly a high-level Al Qaeda compound, one step ahead of his pursuers, and he could But as they breached the third floor, it became In the third floor's main room was Osama the loose-fitting tunic he was usually seen The SEALs got their first glimpse of him as And they didn't miss their opportunity. They immediately fired, wounding him. However, he was able to retreat back into The room was revealed to contain many of Bin of his wives. One approached the SEALs, as if she was charging grabbing her and advancing further towards Osama Bin Laden had nowhere left to run, and outside his door. What happened next? Reports vary. Matt Bissonnette, one of the SEALs on site, by the initial shots as they approached. His wives were trying to protect him, and them could have an explosive device. But when they pushed past them, they found As he moved, they fired multiple shots and But another SEAL had a very different story. Robert J. O'Neill would become one of the the men on the mission, and had a much more In his retelling, Osama bin Laden might have In fact, he was strong enough to grab one using her as a human shield. As bin Laden pushed the hapless woman towards directly into bin Laden's forehead and killed Which report was accurate? The Navy after-action report favors Bissonnette's And just like that, one of the most notorious The SEAL team radioed back "For God and - officially confirming that the enemy had The entire affair had taken less than fifteen Osama bin Laden, one of the most efficient had been completed without a single death team. Watching from the situation room, President team had been waiting to hear - "We got But the mission wasn't over just yet. 3:55 - The SEAL team members quickly sprung moving it downstairs. They would be exiting shortly, but there was The compound might be a source of vital intelligence, surrounding area. They found two weapons in the room - an assault had managed to neutralize bin Laden before They weren't loaded - indicating that the But what to do about the other residents? Almost everyone who had engaged the US troops was full of civilians. The US had no desire to take all the women they non-violently restrained them and left forces. Most didn't put up any resistance - besides Abdul Fatah. She berated the SEALs in Arabic for the entire the Yemeni woman was a true believer in her She, like most of the people found there, back to their home countries in the Middle And now, it was time to make a clean getaway. 4:05 - Bin Laden's body and every important secured. Taking what they needed, the first helicopter Much like the landing, this was a low take-off For those back in the United States, the SEALs mission, and it was unlikely the Pakistani there. But much like the first time, SEAL Team Six compound. But there was one more matter to attend to. 4:08 - The damaged Black Hawk helicopter that through the sky and Pakistani forces would The chopper contained vital information about just a standard helicopter and had been outfitted So before they departed, the troops used the had used to breach the compound - and gave This only took minutes, and soon one of the arrived, scooped up the remaining Navy SEALs, The mission was over - and now it was time 5:53 - The ride back was over an hour and of the mission that killed Osama bin Laden. But now that it was over, they had to get Afghanistan, where the Americans had been 11th terror attacks. While it was unlikely the Pakistanis would stealthy escape would go much smoother, so efforts. As the various explosions led to crowds before officer claimed it had been a Pakistani operation their distance. It worked, and the American landed safely Osama Bin Laden. Now it was time to deal with the aftermath. 7:01 - Back at the White House, the celebration him? Bin Laden was infamous for using body doubles, was thought he had been killed only for it So everyone waited anxiously for the results - and over an hour after the SEALs arrived that the notorious rogue was actually dead. This time, the United States had gotten their And the American public was about to find It was the evening of May 1st when word started to be making a speech on TV that night. Usually, when Barack Obama made a planned prime time - often to the annoyance of everyone show. But this unplanned speech on short notice waiting until the President ascended the podium And as soon as he opened his mouth, people 11:35 - "Tonight, I can report to the American has conducted an operation that killed Osama who's responsible for the murder of thousands As the President paid tribute to the many a spontaneous celebration erupted around the It was just short of ten years since the September in fear of the next attack. As word got around, large groups of fans attending Democrats exulted in the biggest foreign policy celebrated the end of an enemy while wondering him next year! And there was only one thing left to do. 12:59 - It was a little over an hour after had one major piece of business left to attend The terror leader had been fully tested and guy. He had been checked for any vital intel, and The only thing left to do was dispose of the No one wanted him! Bin Laden was wanted in just about every country he had sought refuge - Pakistan and Afghanistan No country would want to give him a grave, activity. No one wants to have an Al Qaeda pilgrimage So why not just cremate his body and be done Cremation is against Islamic tradition, and still wanted to respect his faith. No need to anger his followers any more than had just been eliminated. Fortunately, there was an alternative. Bin Laden's body was loaded on the aircraft called the government of Saudi Arabia for He was a Saudi citizen, after all, and the at the time. And the Saudi response was - we don't care our problem! The plan to bury Osama bin Laden at sea was religious rites. There was even a brief reading of Arabic religious in a white shroud, place in a bag loaded with on a wooden board. As the board was tilted forward, Bin Laden's leader would never have a grave that could And now that the entire operation was over, It was roughly 3 AM local time in Pakistan informing the country of the operation that The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff smoothed over some angry words. While there was some brief dispute of whether government denied this and reports stated to the location had only arrived after all This is not where the aftermath ended through. The raid that killed Osama bin Laden had played would span years. Controversies centered around the legality laws passed after 9/11 gave the US wide latitude Pakistan wasn't pleased with the US operating about bin Laden's network of support in Neither got too many answers. Conspiracy theories persisted about bin Laden some photos of the terror leader's corpse And there was one more inevitable act. Once the operation was partially declassified, out memoirs. Some varied in details - and most made the So naturally, it wasn't long before Hollywood Only a year and a half after the death of was released and its pick for the hero was...a Chastain. Because it wouldn't be a key moment in American spin on it. Want to know more about this famous manhunt? Check out "Weird Things Navy SEALs Discovered this video instead.