I know, I know. I talk about heat pumps a lot, technology that uses a little physics exploit put in. The problem is that most of the time, the can easily retrofit new installations into place for a geothermal system. That's definitely out of Well, there's a new type of heat pump hitting easy to install heat pumps that sit It seems so obvious when you look at didn't we do this earlier? And how well I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by the CCAN I'm sure a lot of you have been stuck of an antiquated heating and how do you adapt to an apartment building that's system that you have no control over? It's which means some apartments are cozy and sometimes the only available option is to Not a great way to conserve energy and save older buildings in US cities like New York and It's through window heat pumps that New York City adoption in the United States. In accordance with Big Apple are now required to make massive cuts decades. The goal is to reduce emissions by 40% the New York City Housing Authority and cooling systems within its public housing upgrading antiquated and inefficient boiler which affects more than half a million Radiant systems and steam-based are not as efficient as heat pumps. Large steam and only about a third of their input And that's where window heat pumps come into all I could do was this. You can see right the "inverse U" or "saddle-style" design that for residents to install it themselves in for a professional... or wrecking existing electrical upgrades needed. These heat pumps temperature control back into the hands of thanks to the power of the heat pumps. You There's other convenient features like relatively smaller footprints, low systems. That means no excess water or trays. These also help reincorporate some early anecdotal reports that they've A window heat pump's components won't be much with traditional heat pumps, but here's the evaporator, and a reversing valve that allows it are all housed within one compact unit that heat rather than generate it, from something you'll get 2-3 times more heat energy That's why in 2021, the New New York State Energy Research Development the Clean Heat For All Challenge. This advancing electrification efforts to meet New to promote new designs that could slot into high costs normally associated with Who ended up taking action Before we get to that there's another thing you fighting climate change just launched its annual about it. All proceeds go to the amazing Fund and here are three reasons why YOU should Your odds of winning have never been better! For to win a brand-new electric vehicle with just The first-place winner will choose from a Rivian or the Tesla Cyber Truck. And the second-place AND THREE: Our friends at CCAN Action Fund climate crisis. So, you'll be supporting a great evraffle.org. Tickets are just $200 and only 7000 Visit evraffle.org or check the description of you for supporting the channel. So back to That would be Midea US, headquartered in New the winners of the challenge, Midea will provide while Gradient will supply 10,000 Midea's Packaged Window Heat Pump, or PWHP, challenge winnings, but it also earned itself the That's a convention held by the American Society Engineers. The heat pump is specifically designed the body has handles built into it to help The PWHP can provide 9,000 BTU/hr of heating performance, or COP. The COP is a measure of heating capacity vs the amount of electricity it metric for comparing heat pumps against each pump has a COP of 2.35 at temperatures anything that burns fuel like a furnace or And the PWHP can operate at temperatures down to way up to 113degF (45degC) for cooling. Meaning that cold New York winter nights or hottest of summer Efficiency Ratio, which measures the efficiency of scores a 16, which puts it at or above the scores Now let's look at Gradient, who are set to Pump. The numbers on this heat pump will look 9,000 BTUs of heating or cooling, and an easy a COP of 2.60 all the way down to 17F (-8C), high end of the range is 95degF (35degC), which of New York. This heat pump also plugs into installs in mind. Gradient claims you can Gradient has boasted about their use of R-32 were pretty harmful to the environment or the in ozone depletion potential (ODP), and has a That might sound a litte rough at first, but of more common refrigerants. Gradient's heat Efficiency Ratio (CEER) 10.8, qualifying it for So, for what it's worth it seems like efficient at the mid range temperatures and Midea's take on the window heat pump has better Combined Energy Efficiency Ratio What do these heat pumps we've already covered a lot of the quality but let's look at them versus older boiler trying to replace. Whether it's a gas/oil boiler, matter because none of these older technologies radiator is going to score a COP of 1, so for Things start to get fuzzier when it the pricey nature of heat pumps has been their noted that they want to make sure their heat keep the cost below $3,000 dollars. Midea while Gradient says their unit will be around For comparison a window-mounted AC unit only but it can only cool your home. These window do. They're also far more efficient than any tiny that they also use more eco-friendly refrigerants like this are probably using ... but that's Plus, there's always the chance challenges could put the final market price even happen with plenty of technologies before. eligible for rebates or tax deductions, like the so that could help ameliorate things. Even with likely to be a big upfront investment for a renter This all makes the math of heat pumps vs hard to calculate. Instead of getting a window building could replace the old gas boiler with an hot fluid to radiators, underfloor heating, you'd still run into that issue of heating undercut much of the energy efficiency gains. I'm It also doesn't address the need for cooling, waves in cities like New York and Boston. that these heat pumps can address that if you're not allowed to remodel part of landmark or due to mold or asbestos fears, then regardless of price. What I'm trying to say is There's also concerns about electricity usage. your rent, but you pay for electricity yourself. renters will be taking on their heating and an incentive for a landlord to make the switch building, but the switch will hit a renter's complete control over how much you run the unit heat pumps are going to draw a lot of electricity. the grid. If everything goes according to plan will 3.64 million new heat pumps working night And while there are some concerns about strain they're likely to be better than all the in use. Gradient estimates that the yearly be between $64 and $238. There's a lot so the exact price will vary a lot. However, to your average air conditioner which will cost Take those operational savings and but other cities that are interested in like Jersey City, Boston, and Seattle. apartments. An estimated 39 million and that number is only going to go up. America, Toronto, or Beijing have apartment dwellers While upfront cost may remain a speedbump, it won't surprise you to hear that I'm pretty I know I love heat pumps, but shrinking 'em like apartments, just seems like the But what do you think? Would you want a the comments and let me know and podcast Still TBD where we'll keep always to my patrons for your continued