It's hard to believe but in Chad, The bushes are very green. There's grass, a number of small pools, and they're not an oasis. What's going on? Well, it's unimaginable, but in this part of the desert, it rains. Much to the delight of the camels who are not used to driving This year it's really rained a lot, As the desert begins to take on water, wetter regions Abdel isn't the type The roads have been cut off, so he has turned to delivering for which business is booming. Without the boat, The boat is an emergency aid However, given the wreckage, reaching your destination You can connect the cable. When he's not at school, Hassan, For Abdel, delivering this boat We have to help these people, look at how they are suffering. It hurts. We're suffering. Everywhere is flooded. We need help. Everything in his pickup seems to be held together It's very hit or miss. Mostly miss. The belt is severed. The toolkit doesn't look up to much, but it has helped Abdel and his son Turn it with key 19. Ok, Dad. It's well over 35 degrees Celcius The life of someone from Chad like me, Abdel has no way of buying a new car, so he hopes Thanks to Abdel, and the children can go to school. Sitting in his boat Hassan dreams of a shiny new car and above all, Two hours and 18 kilometers later, Two hours for 18 kilometers, The boat was launched immediately Thousands of farmers Without them, would grind to a halt. Especially since Chad Almost everything must travel by road. The country is suffering Eighteen out of 23 provinces Thousands of people The current is very dangerous! Farmers see their crops disappear. It rained so much, that it completely drowned the rice crops All our hard work has been undone. Harvests are scarce, and a submarine would be more useful The villagers This is all the rice we have left! However, Their good ideas I buy cans and put them together! However, sometimes is no match Taking risks, if you hope to emerge the winner Storms are a daily occurrence an economic hub When the rain calms down, for the one lorry that will take you The skip fills up with rags, The shopkeeper smiles at the prospect but they know It's a very tricky road, you'll see how dangerous it is. Well, it's not exactly but it does a lot of good work. It also serves as public transport. Four euros a trip is a lot of money, as most Chadians so it's bound to be a bit dodgy. However, Norbert has eyes everywhere. You up there, you have to pay me. I'll pay you on arrival. No, it doesn't work like that, You shouldn't shout at people, Where's your money? You need to pay me so we can leave. You're being really disrespectful. It takes no fewer than four mechanics and five passengers. That's not counting Norbert The team will be on hand which has been on the road for 60 years. Even though its last official inspection Suleiman, the driver, has every confidence I've been a driver for 20 years. I bought it for 6,000 euros. It's a very sturdy vehicle On this kind of road, but this one goes through At least they both hope so. In order to ensure Suleiman and Norbert before it opens at around 8:00 a.m. They set off eight hours ahead However, the 125 kilometers could easily steal those hours back. In this country, or doesn't want to help us. He prefers to stay in his office, He should really fix this road. You see, it's difficult, It's difficult. Unpleasant, arduous, exhausting. There's no shortage of adjectives and yet the trader is not discouraged. We're going down there to have a look. A pickup truck is in the way. It's stuck, Norbert only has one solution. -Are you going to help him? Now all together, let's keep pushing! If we keep going like this, we'll manage. They seem to have won the battle when... Watch out! He's reversing! Look at the road right there. You'd have no problems Sometimes there are accidents here and yet they force us Yet we are all Chadians. Under normal circumstances, It takes one hour One hour lost for Norbert However, the worst is yet to come. After the pickup, The truck is leaning all the way raised on the right-hand side, According to one Chadian proverb, before you know where you're going, This is where Suleiman, Norbert, Planted in the earth It can't manage it. They left eight hours early, and yet their hopes are starting to fade. Climate change is not making it any easier Far from it, even though oil money, has enabled many roads to be resurfaced, many major routes with no infrastructure to protect them Only lorries and bush taxis Old machines with the advantage of containing little so they can be repaired Mahamat's lorry but he continues Soudani, We'll get some fuel later. Mahamat offers two rates. Ten euros for economy class, We'll set off now we're full up. Fifteen euros for business class -How's it going, mate? Mahamat is transporting 15 passengers. To Am Timan in the south of the country. Since flooding blocked the roads, the 260-kilometer journey This journey but now it takes at least 14. Yet the province of Salamat, is arguably It is the agricultural center of Chad. Despite this status, nothing is done from the rest of the country We're going there to find work. We want to go and work in the fields. Careful! Careful! Several people have died along this route. Dead for no reason. This road is the stuff of nightmares. Push the car, guys, A tomb of fatigue and stress. After just 40 minutes on the road, their first major obstacle and it won't be the last. The bridge is submerged and the current is too strong A huge traffic jam has formed, and hundreds of travelers for the waters to calm. Pedestrians cross at their own risk, As always, A few crafty characters have found a way selling makeshift rafts. To avoid struggling They don't swim in a straight line. These follower fish swim up the bank, where the current is weakest, and then let themselves The work is exhausting, 1.50 euros per person Since the flood began to reappear, Abdel Hamid In fact, he was the one I had this idea because people holding hands with each other. It was very tiring and dangerous, so I made a raft out of jerry cans Now that his system Abdel Hamid This time, by making a ferry for cars. For cars, the passage is viable when the current weakens slightly. Mahamat, driving his bush taxi, If the car enters the river too quickly, The exact error this taxi has made. It's not good. Manual labor The current is really strong. If I drive against the current, If I'm not careful Each driver has their own method, like putting a mechanic in the engine or even fitting the engine so it can breathe underwater. That's a great motor. -There's no risk of flooding the engine? -That's good, are you ready to leave then? He ends up This will cost him part of his profits, and as such, but he's forced to give in. Okay, let's go. -Are you going to give it a go? If he turns back, We'll cross our fingers The other bank is just 50 meters away. However, halfway across, several passengers but the pickup doesn't move. Mahamat agrees to pay for just one pusher, hoping that will be enough. You know, Chad is a bit We still have so much to write, It's going to take a little longer. Since the death of Idriss Deby, the autocrat who ruled Chad for 30 years, the state's attention and rebel groups that threaten it. However, the people of Chad Yet there are plenty of resources, oil, diamonds, and other minerals that could help boost strengthening its infrastructure and shielding the capital, The city was almost entirely submerged and 100,000 people To survive, traders are forced We're suffering, there's water everywhere and now we have to sell In this shanty town, Only the land is now saturated Raki would like to take her eight children but these scraps of metal are all she has. When it rains, from here, from the ground, from the roof... We put little mats to try and get some sleep. However, when it rains too much, Despite her misfortune, Raki knows Some of her friends Fortunately, Working in an urban quarry Here, women and children and sell it to building contractors I start around 8:00 a.m., Because sometimes I go two days, a week, or even a month She earns an average of one euro a day. We do this job They're good for nothing They don't bring any money home and, on top of that, I've lost my fingernails twice already... The day you get hit with a hammer, Breathing in cement blocks our airways. We try to find medication but it's hard. We drink milk, There are some men who don't abandon Raki's sons are hard at work. I've been doing this job How old are you? I'm 14. I started when I was six. It's a really rubbish job. We don't earn much. I still go to school, but when we don't have class, These little workhorses In Chad, many people not knowing Like the shopkeepers and Suleiman's yellow truck. They've been trapped in the mud Jeke Jeke market opens at 8:00 a.m. and they're not sure they'll make it. However, their crew I'm trying to wedge this under the wheel. Be careful, there's a big hole, -Are you worried we're going to be late? The market will finish before we get there At least Norbert has enough of a network I don't know We're trying to find a solution. No matter how you do it, There's only one thing left to do, Come on, we're unloading everything! He hopes that by reducing he'll be able The skip is emptied in two hours. Norbert exhausted, is sound asleep. As for his men, they never give up Thirty euros per trip, regardless of how many hours -Can it go in? The mechanics lift the back end, Freedom at last. We've been through a lot, Even if we're very tired! I'm completely stuck in the mud. Are you stuck too? Yes, I'm bogged down, -Where the truck was? Between the pickup blocking the road the team is ten hours behind schedule, which means they'll now have to drive and have no room for error. In Chad, driving worry-free seems As Mahamat travels further south he starts to find himself The water level keeps rising. This time, there's no need The road disappears completely. Some brave souls It's daring. Mahamat prefers to stop there. We've reached Darasna, It's completely underwater. We'd need a bridge to get across. The road is cut off. Come on, kids, get your stuff. The passengers At the other end of the road, working in collaboration with Mahamat. We take the canoe and if we went on foot, The ferryman charged 75 euro cents A highly profitable operation. This canoe costs 270 euros which means I can make a profit They dock one kilometer If the canoe was extra, the bush taxi that comes to pick them up Only it's not at the rendezvous. Bedouin and the rest of the passengers We're in the middle of the sun, It's not easy. Above all, there are children who are being breastfed It's terrible for the women. They're not the only ones when their taxi arrives an hour later. That's it, we're good to go. Passengers from other groups The driver realizes Mahamat, how many passengers did you have? I'll have to check There're people who aren't from the agency so there's a mix of passengers. Okay, you can go but otherwise, it's full. Well, it seems there's no such thing Five new passengers There are now 20 of them crammed in. However, the town of Am Timan and it's already nearly 10:00 p.m. Time for a break? We've got no choice. Even if we keep going We've already traveled for ten hours They've still got another 140 kilometers and of course, Not everyone has the luxury of sleep. Like Norbert and his passengers. After the trials they have just one thing on their minds. Drive, drive, drive without stopping so they can catch up before 8:00 a.m. However, it's not over yet. There's still Driving at night is dangerous. It's really reluctantly We're not considered human beings, so if we die, it's no big deal! Norbert has two wives and three children. His partner Suleiman Neither of them However, as they drive on, Try to back up over there. We're stuck, it's not going any further. We're going to put some branches Get back! Get back, get back! Back again! They have earned some respite, Norbert decides to stop at a village. Come on, let's stop here! Everyone's everyone's upset, but they're all holding out hope because as the shopkeepers say, It's like this every week. The place is in bad condition and dirty. However, we have no choice, Between staying at home with nothing and working for a living, Tomorrow, their week's wages In Chad, and the passenger with pain. Like this group After taking the first taxi, which they had to abandon here they are in a second pickup. At this point, they think they've reached Once again, Look at the current, it's very dangerous. We're afraid to cross, However, they have to get going. Bedouin can't turn back. Every time, we have a new problem. It wasn't like this... Now it's the penultimate stage. After seeing what's over there, -Will it be a relief when you get there? On the other side of the road, Bedouin and his group Once again, other travelers and Mamat is worried. There are twenty-five of us. However twenty-four, twenty-five no... It's very risky, He's not feeling confident. It's serious, it's broken! It seems irreparable, and yet the driver Bedouin is at the end of his tether. Yes, it's discouraging, we've been traveling for almost 48 hours We've all got appointments We've got work to do. We've spent more money than we planned Like Bedouin, everyone How long are they going to have to wait To catch up, and at the rate they're going, Despite the state of the road, They need to be able to sell their nuts If I don't get there in time, A burst of speed, for those on top of the truck. Watch out, branches! My hat! I've lost my hat. Getting to the market on time to put your foot down. We're 40 kilometers and sometimes we meet road pirates. They only steal people's money, but if you try to resist, Despite the speed, they're late. It must be said to cover 260 kilometers. -Norbert, are you happy to have arrived? I'm just disappointed It wasn't easy but at least Norbert and his driver to the shopkeepers for the delay, each earned 45 euros or 1.60 an hour. A meager wage compared to the difficulties On the road to Am Timan, the situation The rain has slowed down the repairs, It's been two hours of waiting. Gideon is keeping his spirits up, Don't you ever feel like giving up? We can't give up because it's our only way The team is not making any progress and it's starting If the rain doesn't stop, The entrance to Am Timan If they miss the boat to the town, The less heavily laden We can't wait for that car any longer. We have to cross the water ahead Yes, it's coming. Am Timan is still 15 kilometers away. Halfway there, but luckily for them, there are motorbike taxis and there are plenty of them. Bedouin is exhausted, but his last few banknotes allow him He arrives at the town entrance After reaching the meeting point, they have to wait once again It's the first time in my life We haven't eaten anything since yesterday, Same time yesterday, same time today, After three hours of waiting, Mamat and his group Only four kilometers You can take up to 30 people on the boat. The water here is not deep Some time ago, and unfortunately, he drowned. An hour's sailing later, Now it's time to find a place Mamat is one of the lucky ones. I'm happy I'm going to see my family. Whether trying to reach a large town the ordeal is the same for most Chadians. The country is immense, would require enormous investment Despite its considerable Chad remains with so much still to be built.