Hey everyone, so you may remember some debunks project, Sky Scholar, and Suspicious0bservers. pseudoscience pertaining to astrophysics. I've to debunk one of the main figureheads of this far, and that is Wal Thornhill, the fraud This channel is a hub for mythological space inspired by, or some would say plagiarized from, These include Venus being birthed from within somehow settle into its nearly circular orbit, carve formations into planets that are and other such rubbish that doesn't What Thornhill and pals amplified of these myths weave extravagant tales of ancient cave paintings which for whatever reason have never used to talk everyone's ear off in biblical times mythology is not a coincidence, as he is not it's no surprise that according to him, every but after dismantling Wal's sad little script We will cover a few topics in this video, but When Wal first started attracting attention lots of physicists pointed out how utterly insane whatsoever, while simultaneously contradicting many also pointed out that Wal never seemed to something must make concrete, falsifiable internal pressure for Wal to address this, because He wrote this blog post in 2005 right before the Tempel 1. He starts by mocking astronomy and as of course he must, pretending that we don't When systems form, material in the protoplanetary gravitational influence. Planets, moons, and form very far away from the star where it's very most have huge, highly elliptical orbits that take but to Wal it's fairy tales of course. He says bodies blown off of moons and planets by lightning why don't we see any such lightning bolts now, to the Oort cloud? Great questions, but don't are "negatively charged". This is also completely as anyone who did well in their high school the sun is positively charged, and that's why But this whole "electric sun" model was debunked so head there if you're interested in that. Then not material subliming from solid to gas as comet to heat up. He goes on to say that if it won't be because of those idiot scientists a spacecraft to an electrical environment that had a nice long list of very concrete predictions systems will short out before impact. Electrical bit about X-rays, which must accompany discharges X-ray production through the mechanics of impact. most importantly, no ice. This is emphasized Well, the mission was carried out, nothing malfunctioned, impact was achieved, and a could be collected about its composition. What did which also do indeed comprise the comet's ejection Just a big ball of ice and dust with organic was even remotely accurate. Shocking, huh? Now, what would you do? Admit that you were wrong and ignored everything and kept spewing his nonsense, checking any other sources. But what I want to about the mission, he actively lied about it. This was supposed to be due to an electrical Images showed a faint first light as the impactor material, followed by a brighter outburst caused would be very bright, Wal decided to claim so on his website under "confirmed predictions", Well the Chandra satellite observed the event in and turned up only the expected X-rays cometary neutrals and heavy ions from the solar From the abstract of the relevant paper, "No was seen." So when Wal claims victory on this, And not just once. For "subsurface composition", after the impact, when in actuality we This is just the culmination of one of his "By the time of 'Deep Impact', comet theory due in part to the absence of detectible standard theory." Yet we'd known for decades that and here was the confirmation up close and said no ice, so there can't be ice, so when there Wal continued this charade for years. The Epoxi and sent it to visit comet Hartley 2 in 2010. of water and other material in all directions. got lots of great pictures, and used on-board lots and lots of ice. Several types, in fact. distribution of water gas and water ice, as well jets are the things Wal was pretending were he was essentially silent about the mission, And so the facade continued, until the Rosetta on comet 67P. Again, he trotted out his typical as though he's capable of building a toaster, much successful, with not a single datum even remotely the data gathered from 67P, we now know even more we know that Wal is dead wrong about comets. the region from the surface of the comet out to boundary. Within it, there is essentially for a supposed "negatively charged object" of this and may vary between highly active comets, like and low activity ones, such as 67P. But it can particles of the outgassed material. This prevents entering this region. At any rate, no magnetic No magnetic field means no electrical discharge. local measurements on 67P just confirmed what was measured. Second, composition. Wal says comets Rosetta reached 67P, it should have found lots of instrument on board Rosetta, probed the nucleus The thermal inertia of the material shows The CONSERT experiment sent radio waves right spacecraft to the Philae lander. The results are of rock. An instrument on the Philae lander and was able to record the sound speed of the the lander at different times. The measured Debris from a cliff that collapsed on the which does not occur with rock. The density And so forth. And finally, the the electricity. There wasn't any. As with all were fitted with magnetometers. Those instruments They didn't detect any. If you are going to physically lands on one and doesn't detect any But it doesn't end there. What about all the can't be water, and he has an answer for this too. with protons from the solar wind to form hydroxyl the data are too dumb to tell the difference. From "The negative ions combine with the positive amongst other things, the OH radical, which is of water ice on the comet." This is repeated view the comas of comets spectroscopically, what which they assume to be a residue of water of the Sun (photolysis). This assumption is 'processing' by solar radiation beyond anything This is idiotic. There is no possibility of hydroxyl radical. They are nothing alike. The was made by the Kuiper Airborne Observatory in the Vega spacecraft in-situ at that same comet. There is no possibility of confusing the water other unambiguous detections followed between sub-millimeter observations by the ODIN satellite. and again, that is most definitely water. The shown here with infrared hot bands. So Wal or is just pulling something out of his ass mechanism Wal suggests for the production of these a man-made process carried out under controlled oil, so it is not even remotely reasonable And after all this, multiple missions comets, collecting mountains of data, absolutely all of which spectacularly obliterates what is he left with? Does he take the loss Nope! Just type "thunderbolts project comets" into all published AFTER the Rosetta mission, that for Electric Comets", "Electric Comets: Born From and other blatant reality-denial. What Essentially just rapid-fire lies and deliberate omitting sections that directly contradict what he comets long enough, so it would be redundant to but rest assured, Wal and pals have absolutely comets. So much so that I still get comments from ignoramuses saying "Haha, you still totally oblivious to the fact that we landed With electric comets firmly in the trash can, things that Wal has said, but first let's pause appalled by people who lie about science on the knowledge of various subjects so that you don't Brilliant offers extensive courses in More than simply a collection of lecture interactive problem solving for a more engaging and magnetism - Wal, if you're watching, you and other areas of physics. I recommend "Everyday like fractions and ratios using intuitive software development and programming, statistics Don't waste another moment, join over ten million Visit Brilliant.org/ProfessorDaveExplains sign up will get 20% off their Now, back to Mr. Thornhill and his lies. which is that most of modern physics is not two reasons for this. First, he doesn't understand that his target demographic probably also does not So Wal cultivates an environment where he and and pretend that physics can be done without it. evidence. This means making quantifiable observation. And with physics, that means math. reproducible evidence supporting things like Wal denies, he either ignores the relevant to explain how physicists are misinterpreting it's just a bunch of scary numbers that have no out for him over the past decade or so, with all Just to name a few examples, Wal claims that 2: EHT never imaged a black hole, and 3: CERN any time science proves him wrong, it's fake. For on these blatant attempts to deny real science. "An Examination of Gravitational Waves", which If you are unfamiliar with this phenomenon, these spacetime at the speed of light, which are Postulated by Einstein as part of general another in a long string of Strap in for some damage control. ripples in the fabric of spacetime called a cataclysmic event in the distant universe. Einstein's 1915 general theory of relativity, and Once again we see science journalists thirst for media frenzy. Some would call this more a theory waves. The more sensational the headlines the He starts right away by poisoning the well. it can't be because they're right, it's because scientific discovery, it has to be sensationalism. and one he uses a lot. Here's another So they have hundreds of thousands these signals. And then of course the signals have looking at signals that are incredibly tiny. Which what they're seeing is like Yes, Wal. Those idiots have no idea what they're You're so much smarter than those bozos, aren't the LIGO-Virgo Detector Noise and Extraction freely available and linked below. Wow, look this big pile of dumb. Maybe instead of baseless precisely where this methodology is invalid? It's be specific. Us small brains would really In the form of a submission to a peer-reviewed first video for some more science denial. the one that shows the signal detected can have LIGO detectors, each about two and a half miles or the other in Livingston, Louisiana. The two apart, and since both obtained the same reading, important thing to note is that the signals did But as Newton's law of gravity demands, and This is idiotic. The signals were received seven 3,000 kilometers apart. The speed of light is very takes time for gravitational waves to get from watching this video immediately understands what Of course in reality he understands it just fine, discovery. He invented a way out of thin air has to validate it. Gravity doesn't travel at For example, if gravity travelled at the slow where the sun appears in the sky, and not the in a slingshot effect and toss planets Yes, since the sun is eight light minutes sun was eight minutes ago. Which is the center So it's being pulled toward the center of it orbits the sun. Are you really gonna So if the LIGO signals were caused by a have received it at the same instant. They didn't, Ok, sport. Well physics says otherwise. We to prove this beyond a shadow of a doubt. This was instruments as well as VIRGO in Italy, and the patch of sky as the source of the signal. Lo and burst was detected by two different spacecraft, and within two seconds of the gravitational event detected in both gravitational waves traveling at the speed of light. So Wal, what do When confronted with evidence that conflicts denial followed by accelerated forgetting. bit later Wal made another video on this some more. Let's see what else he came up with. once again to mathematicians. This time it's and the observation of gravitational waves. It As you can see, he starts by combining his and lying. The 2017 Nobel Prize in physics went Wal is claiming that these three individuals are in some area of mathematics, or at the very least, got his bachelor's and doctorate in physics at be precise. Thorne got his bachelor's in physics also in physics, were at Princeton. Weiss got MIT. Sounds like a bunch of physicists to me. Do habitual liars like Wal even know and how easy it is to catch them lying about such The mission of a theoretical physicist trying to particles is to get the maths to work out on before. So we're discussing mathematics, before is that mathematicians raised Einstein's while that theory ignores the substance of stars theory has no physical basis whatsoever. It It's hard to know whether Wal really does know relies on his targets knowing zero things about like this about GR is a moron. Completely contrary observations of stars and planets that have The first was the famous observation with bending around the sun during a solar eclipse. perihelion precession of Mercury. The observation Modeling the paths of stars near galactic black hole. All things having to do with stars and literally would not work without mathematically to account for relativistic effects. When people relativity is, they publicly admit to knowing less I have several astronomy tutorials regarding the so I won't reiterate those any the majority of Wal's rhetoric amounts understand physics so it must be wrong. this quote. This was said by award-winning science that all physics does is throw numbers around Let's look at the full quote to get all the Your mission is to get the maths to work out maths to work in a way that's consistent with and hopefully in such a way that might give you can do or give you something to Funny how the second half specifically contradicts isn't it? What this quote means is that and your math has to be consistent with all the known phenomena less accurately than the physics make falsifiable predictions that can be used to physicists do only math but no science, and is when the second half of the quote specifically quote mining, folks. All the charlatans do it. And relativity immaculately. Einstein's math is even Newton's, since Mercury's orbit didn't fit And more importantly, it also allowed for with the solar eclipse in 1919. A prediction flawlessly confirmed. You have to figure that But Newton's theory, which is used has gravity operating instantly. Time We are probably starting to see a pattern. than relativity and it works quite well, so when it must be right. Since he truly does not Wal for glossing over the fact that the reduce to Newtonian mechanics in situations where light, and the gravitational field is fairly us everything Newton did for non-relativistic a significant way for relativistic situations, very powerful gravitational field. But of course learn the definitions of basic vocabulary words. is the foreign language of physics. and the math-to-English because the editors, the natural philosophers, mass and energy are physically undefined. then what's with these crystal-clear definitions When it comes to experiment, how can our prize gravitational effect, allegedly caused by observed. How can our prize winners be so specific A black hole has never been observed. literally observe a black hole, and we will doesn't matter. The evidence for the existence such as observations of stars making hairpin And sorry, it's no longer a hypothetical the framework of general relativity, and then it had actually learned physics, he would know how we Scientists don't just pull numbers out of motion of objects in the vicinity of the black around for 400 years. He should know this. mathematics predicts black holes. The originators chose not to mention that Einstein's concludes with: "The Schwarzschild singularity, does not appear for the reason that And this is due to the fact that otherwise the of light. Einstein showed mathematically that the same reason that stars and planets cannot, the center of mass until the centrifugal Now we get to the really devious tactics. Wal is existence of black holes. The notion that black GR is about the warping of spacetime around the more warping there is around it, and thus the significant enough, the escape velocity exceeds here's the funny part, Wal claims that Einstein and that GR is wrong, even though Einstein was "meaningless concatenation of non-physical terms", use that concept to pretend he's right about how Einstein's words are revered as dogma, and and physics evolved from where it was in his Einstein said, or are you now criticizing them for on a pedestal now, Wal? The hypocrisy is dazzling. in 2019, a team working with the Event black hole. I think most people have seen this When confronted with evidence that conflicts denial followed by accelerated forgetting. attempt to deny the validity of this image on that's right, since there can't be a supermassive it has to be something else, so to Wal, We seem to attract an inordinate number of viewers plasma cosmology and the electric universe theory. of the general public have no idea that any and actually should be taken seriously. This graphic can be debunked in five seconds. weaker than a kitchen magnet, these currents and most importantly, this fantasy relies spiral formation. Guess what! Galaxies don't all either elliptical or irregular. What this means is Whoopsie. Where are the currents coming Plasma cosmology is a model of the now undeniable significance of plasma I love when they do this. They spend all are so arrogant, thinking they understand room for mystery and new ideas. Then in physics involves mysterious entities like dark For several decades plasma cosmologists in laboratory experiments, many astrophysical and in fact requires, the pervasive and shockingly recognized, but are not explained and were And for decades it's been proposed that at the rather a physically real object which is produced Hey brainiacs, did you forget that you of a black hole? Look at this plasmoid. How dumb do they think people are? And of course looking electricity thingies in the lab that kind the same thing. Nothing wrong with that logic at of stuff about magnetic fields that we do not Also the plasmoid has a donut shape, so it's quite seen a glowing accretion disc, but gravitational It is all electrodynamic. So, yes, there can be, object, quite bright, because there's an and in the center there will be nothing. So basically, the argument is that a black hole is even though no, they do not look alike at Wal made a lot of content denying so devastating to his scam. Let's check out So what are your thoughts on some of the best it is a plasmoid and not a black The stars that orbit that so-called black which suggests if you're using gravity in the focus of that orbit, is of the value they And that's only because they're using the wrong But we aren't. We're talking about existence of Sagittarius A is basically Wal, here's a little secret. General relativity of stars near the black hole. The equations the orbital trajectories of these stars, as we the perihelion precession of mercury vindicated of the perihelion precession of a star like S2 not to mention the observation of gravitational knows, observation flawlessly matching prediction about. That Wal does not acknowledge this means he more video to wrap things up. Wal likes to give called "The Long Path to Understanding Gravity". conferences are perhaps the only real conferences Yeah, totally. All those hundreds of science who do real science totally have nothing grab freak show attended primarily by gullible Now, Peter Higgs, the whole reason for the Large a hypothetical particle called the Higgs boson the ones that make up you and I, mass. That's the "Nuh uh!" strikes again. Brilliant refutation, lesson in particle physics, the Higgs mechanism particles mass. Something like a proton is not which interact with the Higgs field to obtain The three quarks in a proton are bound by the and the remaining 99% of the proton's given by m = E/c^2, so not from the Higgs but quite well-understood physics for those who to Wal, since he can't even describe it properly. The particles that make us up we know have mass, that. You can see the energy released by those must have energy, they must have mass themselves, Man, is this guy eloquent. Well, as I just mass is intrinsic to the particle itself. particle physics for agreeing with him. But his Even if a particle did obtain all that wouldn't change anything about the way an of a sailboat come from? It's not intrinsic to the water and it's extinguished. Throw a match into That an atom bomb converts mass into energy says It's like he's in a contest to see how Meanwhile gravity is lost in the mystic rubber all seen that picture of the rubber sheet, which a funnel. That's using gravity to explain unless gravity is pulling that mass downwards. stating that diagrams attempting to depict a of spacetime are actually just showing a sheet pretending is below it. Forget the fact that these because it's impossible to depict three spatial let alone a flat screen. Using 2D curved onto wrap your head around for anyone, so Wal has no a diagram like this, of a star or planet in space, just because he's sitting on the Earth while in the world to me. It's kind of like when flat Clearly what this equation is telling us is are all properties of matter. of matter when light is not matter? Why are And of course when I say that it means that If there's no medium there is no it is. This is a common point of confusion for medium to travel through, like sound does. Sound not. Light is oscillating orthogonal electric time of Maxwell. For someone who never shuts up And c is supposed to be a universal But it depends on the medium, Yes, c, the speed of light in a vacuum, is a because it is specific to a It's been found that the speed of light is They now define the meter in terms of the speed No, it doesn't change. The time it takes light to because of the way light interacts with different the light. The speed doesn't change. It's He is pretending that science says that the speed and that scientists are so stupid, that So even though an equation works, it describes reality sufficiently so that you can unless a physicist can explain the meaning of physical terms, plain language, the equations Physicists can do that. They understand physics. them. What Wal means by "plain language", Sorry Wal, ignorance is not an argument. described it with his equation, force equals the with the masses of two objects. The question is mass? How can this be so? And the equation says And it works, I mean NASA uses this You'll note that it's the same you just substitute there for the yesterday in Jerry Pollack's talk, that force is So this suggests that mass may be understood mass and you come up with an electrical force, Yeah, you better believe Wal won't miss irrelevant coincidence that both gravity and Wow, that means gravity is electromagnetism! Do anything with an object of neutral charge. Newton's law of universal gravitation? Yeah. Can electrode, and nothing changes? Yeah. Mass. Not for 20 minutes in my original electric universe Universal gravitational constant, big G, has the form, it has nothing to do with the three Hey Wal, you see how length is cubed? What's the volume of a cube? The side something to the third power as "cubed". So G actually should not be a constant because is the energy tied up in a particle. It's an Gibberish. Mass is not an electrical charge also have mass. This is stupid. is neither universal nor a constant, and in Every time it's measured it's different. No, it is a constant. If he had ever done any inherent in taking measurements. Getting a was done for the first time in 1798 by Henry equipment. Compare that to the current value, methods produce slight variations, but this speaks and does not imply in any way that G is not results using the same instruments, he's either out to the fifth or sixth decimal place. We are They are approximations of reality. G is a about pterodactyls that somehow disprove It was pointed out to me a few months ago that of the sun on the moon and the force of the Earth and the sun, a new moon, the sun is pulling on question is: well why, how do we have the moon? are answered by Newton's simple equation. high school level physics. Just because there doesn't mean they should go flying the moon would have crashed into the Earth a Earth because it is in orbit around the Earth. Why don't they crash into the Earth? Because of that rotational velocity, they absolutely would Earth and moon were somehow at rest with respect and moon would both crash into the sun if they Newton's equations don't answer these questions, The Earth-Moon-Sun three body problem has all know how Wal feels about reality, right? with your paradigm, the usual response is Now we could spend another hour on this video ridiculous videos on his channel, but I think who makes a living lying about physics be easily debunked by someone with only a casual of science denial from another two-bit grifter. and everything that proves him wrong must be fake. established, it can't change one bit, no matter of science denial is a symptom of the post-truth no matter what the brand or who is peddling it. hope that anyone who had ever found Thunderbolts can now see what a sad little joke it really able to pick up a few interesting morsels of