Ritch Esra: Have you ever wondered how A&amp;R then you'll definitely want to check out Senior Director of A&amp;R at APG Artist Partner new songs from songwriters, as well as the debut artist needs to break through versus an Eric Knight: This episode of the MUBUTV Insider Video Series The Music Business Registry is the leading music information for major and independent record music attorneys, music supervisors, and much, trusted industry standard and source serving with the most accurate and up to date contact the A&amp;R Registry, the Film and Television Music Attorney registry. All of their publications are Visit musicregistry.com and use coupon code coupon code MUBUTV10. When you're ready to Ritch Esra: Hi, it's Ritch Esra from MUBUTV, where our music career. We're coming to you from Musexpo in with Andre Herd, who is the Senior Director of A&amp;R Andre Herd: Thank you. Thank you for having me. Ritch Esra: What is APG's A&amp;R philosophy regarding Andre Herd: Mmm, good question! We're a company that's songwriter, producer that we feel has a unique and it's one that we feel like we can really then we'll support it and do it. Our whole sign a lot, so the things we do sign, we really and ultimately end up breaking. APG has such a producers, and artists, and one thing that I picky and selective, and when we do sign Ritch Esra: What has to be present for you in to be signed to APG? I mean, what factors Andre Herd: For me, I have to see the vision. So, an that I understand it and that I can say, &quot;Okay, you could be here.&quot; And musically, through your particular voice is, it's artists who are the landscape of music, who understand what's why it's important, understand how to be authentic etc. You know and honestly, following doesn't do they understand those pillars? Are they can I provide value to really bring Ritch Esra: Okay, can you take us through a typical day with Andre Herd: Every day is different. Okay. But I would say my listen to a ton of demos. I'm always looking constantly. And the primary sort of aspects figure out the A&amp;R, make the right records with really understand the brand. Push the brand figure out where the hole is, where the gap in And that's sort of the conversations I have every I do have. It's a lot about, like, where are we push the needle forward today? Where are we going? studio all day. Some days I'm working on records days. Other times, I'm ideating session ideas needle forward on how can I get closer to where So every day is different. There's no quite often I'm in my office Ritch Esra: When you're listening to songs from a songwriter from a different stance than an artist because material or getting out there. They're behind often even have the same criteria as an artist evaluating that strictly on their skill sets, on a track record, or they may not have social Andre Herd: There's a couple of qualities that are intangible. okay, you have your music, there's your social the output that you have with a songwriter The biggest intangible that I look for is, what It's a relationship driven game. There are so there. The ones that are actually on top are the right artists, the ones who are actually A&amp;Rs in early. That's what I'm looking for. And then from voice, a unique sonic voice from a producer. sonics different? Are your drums different? From a songwriter, from a lyric perspective? Are phenomenal? You have to have something that's a lot of producers that I didn't think were that to surround themselves with the right artists. Ritch Esra: Interesting. You mentioned the idea of what are We both know that this business is not just about that you look at. Before saying, before I button for APG, I want to know that they which was also, can you talk about some you look for in the artists and in the Andre Herd: Intelligence is a huge one. So intelligence of thought about if I ask you specific questions, the answers? Have you thought know? There's a lot Kanye the first time he met Kanye. And I think Pharrell. And both the stories are very indicative Kanye, Kanye had his first three album names in And Pharrell. When he met Pharrell, Pharrell told going to do. He had all these sort of grandiose, crazy. But he had a vision. And you watch those I think a lot of people come into my office and don't know where they're going to be in a year or artist who has a clear, concise understanding of why I'll be here in a year, and this is where I'll that songwriter or that producer. I think ambition don't understand the actual, concrete things that think, like, oh, I want a gold record, I want take to get there? Do you know? Have you thought what is it? How do you get there? And some people answers. And I asked an artist what his ambition play the Super Bowl. And I was like, that's a very think a lot of artists are just like, &quot;Oh, I want songwriters. Like, I want big cuts.&quot; But that's so That's not going to make anybody else passionate, co-writers that you're working with. So I think Ritch Esra: Absolutely. I totally agree. And like you seen and come across talent producers. I think you but who've been phenomenally successful because right vehicles. And that's an important thing. the chemistry element. We talked about do you feel in your position on the front lines kind of hit that a debut act needs and the Andre Herd: Yeah, I think the definition of a hit has wildly years ago, a hit was pop radio. Number one because of TikTok and because of social media, developing artists, major hits. So I think a a song that streams a million streams a week, I you're Charlie Puth, that's a failure. So I think where are we now? What kind of records do we need we've gotten to the next level, a hit is going to of like, I think everybody wants the viral TikTok should be shooting for what's good for their TikTok records move and artists are falling off happening. The record labels don't care. They are shooting for that. But that's the wrong goalpost. You? What's right for you right now? And put out hit like Charlie Puth. I think that's going to if you're a producer, I think, you know, in order you need big radio hits. So it all sort depends Ritch Esra: Okay. So in listening to your answer, it's come across one of your writers or you're in the is a smash, and I know that's happened to you as finding, casting the right person for that record. the world, whether it's on Warner's or Columbia record. How do you do that? How do you cast in Andre Herd: Yeah, I know what artists I think are cool, go. There's a lot of artists that get I don't think are going to go. So I think it's a But I think as a writer and as a producer, believe in. And as an A&amp;R I want to back the So I think it's about being selective, and I think is really special, I'm not going to send in that way. I don't get a song and say, &quot;Okay, I get a record and say, there's like five A&amp;Rs to listen to this and actually have a vision those people because I don't want to saturate my So I'm really selective with who I pitch to and is a people's game. You have to bet on the right and I think you just have to ultimately just back Ritch Esra: And as I'm listening to you, I'm realizing A&amp;R executive who's signing artists, and you're producer and songwriters. So my question to you you really love, does their ability to write but as an artist, is that important in the signing Andre Herd: Yes, very much so. Interesting. I primarily only that are great writers or that have the ability develop songwriters. I was a songwriter back in feel that you have a seed that will be great as Lexi Jayde a year ago who she was 17 when I found I was blown away by the level of writing, her I was like, &quot;Oh, in three years, I think this girl Forgetting her social presence, or her look, thought her writing was phenomenal. And I signed which is exciting. But I think it's, to me, and moving forward is you have to have a unique artist who just has a voice and a look to find right songs, to move the needle forward. And I that are taking records these days. Most songs. It's very different than five, six years Ritch Esra: No, absolutely. Ritch Esra: I mean, it is changing because if that's the most of the new developing then that has changed, because the whole was that 80 something percent of people weren't songwriter's gold mine. Songwriters who were thousands of outlets for their songs. But in the past, the writing ability that you're Andre Herd: Yeah, I think, look, social media has given access and those kids are getting signed because to take a song from somebody they've never met their life. So I think it's look, you do have are artists who are good writers, but who are open and I think if a hit comes across my email for regardless of whether they are writing majority So if a true hit lands in my hands, I'm going to going to all push it on them. But good artists Ritch Esra: When you come across a writer are you involved in placing them with writing camps? Is that something that you involve Andre Herd: Yeah, very much so. I mean, our A&amp;R style find your producers, find your writers, find your I do it very intentionally. Like I said, I only put my writers, producers, or artists with Ritch Esra: Okay. All right. Andre Herd: Whether it's on our roster or outside. Ritch Esra: In your life, have there been seen or read in your life that have professionally speaking, that you Andre Herd: Yeah. &quot;If You Don't Stop Talking, You'll Know should read that book. It's the best hustle Ritch Esra: Okay. Yes. And they made a documentary about Andre Herd: Oh, I definitely did. Ritch Esra: Exactly. Andre Herd: And &quot;The Operator&quot;, David Geffen, Ritch Esra: Yeah, it's funny. You're the Andre Herd: I believe it. Ritch Esra: Johnny said that one as well. He loves- Andre Herd: That's my boy. Ritch Esra: I was telling him stories about David because I used to know David back in the Andre Herd: Wow. Ritch Esra: Yeah. So it was interesting. What advice would you give to someone who's interested in Andre Herd: Send me music. I think there's two ways in A&amp;R. do your best to get the job. And the other path looking for every day is the next star. So if and ultimately, if you send me something that I It doesn't matter whether you're a twelve year matter if you're great at scouting and have a consultancy leads to full time employment. started as consultants. All it takes is just game. It's just a hustle game. It's the amount Ritch Esra: Man. Some really great and valuable info all you songwriters and artists looking to with one of the leading music publishers in From this video, what were the out to you that Andre spoke about Was it his criteria and how he evaluates songs regarding the kind of hit song a debut artist act? Or was it the song casting process of finding something else that stood out to you. Thanks subscribe to MUBUTV for more information on how In addition, we recently put together a free guide executives. This is extremely important before in receiving it, we've included a link to free and it goes through the top do's and don'ts such as asking yourself, &quot;Is my music 100% ready of any kind to your email, only direct links and much, much more. This is an incredibly crucial connecting with the A&amp;R community. So if you're the description below. You can also check out a about in the YouTube description as well. And if you hit the like button and let us know what other see on our channel. Hit us up in the comments