Veryovkina Cave. At 7,257 feet (2,212 m) deep, Veryovkina Cave is the deepest cave on Earth. The cave is so deep that it takes over four days and thousands of feet of rope And certainly, what would the deepest cave be These are those stories. [music] On the border of Russia and Georgia is a mountain range known as the Caucasus Mountains. This mountain range is notable for a few reasons. First, it's home to Europe's highest peak, Then, on the Western side of the region of Abkhazia is a subrange of the Caucasus Mountains There are some decent-sized mountains The highest among them is just over 11,000 feet but this area is notable for another reason. The Gogra Range is primarily a limestone mountain range carved out by rivers over its geological history. The prehistoric rivers created a bunch of deep canyons and the largest caves on Earth that are currently known. In fact, the Gagra mountains are home to and the deepest of these is Veryovkina Cave For context, that's the same as stacking 23 The entrance to Veryovkina Cave meaning that you have to climb up Once you're up there, you're still surrounded and then in the middle of these cliffs is a fairly unremarkable looking hole in the ground. It's obvious that it's the entrance to a cave, but you never expect it to descend When the entrance was first discovered they only descended down to a depth of Then in 1983, the cave was discovered for a second time from the Perovo Speleo Club from Moscow. Over the next three years, a series of expeditions but then for reasons that are unclear, there were no more expeditions until the year 2000. Work resumed again that year, to discover a new shaft By 2017, they extended the maximum depth of the cave and mapped over 17 kilometers (10.6 miles) Then, finally in March of 2018, the official deepest point of the cave was discovered at the bottom of a subterranean lake giving Veryovkina Cave a total depth of 7,257 feet Six months later in September, the Perovo team returned once again and this time, they were joined by photographers It was the same team of world-class cavers that made all of the seminal descents of Veryovkina and of the other deep caves in the Gagra Mountain Range. Led by team leader Pavel Demidov, this expedition would be returning to collect samples of some of the and explore some of the promising horizontal passages all while having Robbie and Jeff Now, in an ordinary cave of moderate depth where you can descend and ascend in a single day, you'd still be bringing a decent amount of equipment because you need food and a bunch of In caves as large as Veryovkina Cave, the descent is more similar to an expedition If you've ever watched anything you may have heard of the multi-camp system. These camps are established higher to store food and gear and for the climbers For multi-day expeditions on a mountain the amount of gear becomes way too much People have to climb up and down in advance to transport load after load of the necessary equipment to ensure a safe attempt and Veryovkina Cave is no different. In fact, because of how deep it is, it has a total of six camps From the entrance, climbers have to put on harnesses and helmets fixed with headlamps. They then descend down the and move through a series of tight tunnels and passages to reach the first camp at 2,000 feet (610 m). This camp is a permanently installed camp where gear and equipment are stored year-round for emergencies. Then, over the course of the next four days, Robbie, Jeff and the Perovo Speleo Club all the way down at 6,900 feet (2,103 m). On their way, the temperature was They crawled through mud and water, impossibly tight squeezes and descended down The thousands of feet of ropes were their only means of transportation in and out. Then, finally, they set foot set up in a large horizontal tunnel. This would be their home Over the next three days, the team set out from their camp to complete all of the tasks they had intended. One of these was to bring Robbie and Jeff When they got there, they were stunned to see this beautiful turquoise water surrounded by jet black limestone. Lake is 50 feet long (15.24 m), If not for the lights they brought, it would sit there in complete darkness On day seven, everything was still going according to plan. And that day two of the members of the team When they got up to camp three, A massive storm up on the surface had caused a flood pulse to send thousands of liters of water rushing in. Inside these caves, you can't really communicate wirelessly So instead, cavers have to run a physical line The two team members immediately tapped into the cable to warn the others about the flood pulse headed their way. Down at camp 6, they weren't all that worried Flood pulses are a common thing A single milliliter of rain is one liter per square meter, meaning that a single square kilometer receives a thousand liters of water, if just a single milliliter of rainfall. In heavy rain, that number is significantly higher. All of this water then bursts down into caves depending on the volume of rain and how long it rains for. Again, they weren't all that worried The Perovo group is world-class and their plan was Camp 6 had also been set up in what looked to be an area It was also at 6,900 feet (2,103 m), whereas the total depth was over 7,200 feet (7,194.5 m). For the water to reach them, it would have to fill up 300 feet (91 m) of passages below them before it would reach them. About half an hour after they received the call, they heard the first sound of water approaching. It started off as a faint rumble By the time it was just about to reach the camp, it was so roaring loud The entire cave shook Robbie had just started breakfast and he and the others rushed out of their tents As they turned their headlights towards the vertical shaft, a fire hose of water came pouring down. Robbie stood there with his mouth open Not nearly as experienced as the Perovo team, Robbie was really concerned by the volume But again, the spot they were in was completely dry, so he tried to stay calm like his Russian comrades. About two hours into the flooding one of the team members noticed a gurgling sound He looked into the hole and couldn't see any water, but he figured he should tell the team leader anyway. Pavel agreed that this was a bit concerning, so they decided to go and check out a nearby siphon They returned about five minutes later This time, not only could they see water, but it was rising so fast, and almost out of the hole. The team member looked back at Robbie and Robbie saw Immediately, he knew that this meant With the sound of water still almost deafening, all hell broke loose in the camp. No one expected to be leaving that day packing up essential gear. Robbie and Jeff pulled on their latex suits After that, they slipped on their abrasion-resistant Robbie then made the tough decision to leave all Literally tens of thousands of dollars of equipment. He knew he couldn't risk being slowed down, or it could cost him his life He pulled all of the memory cards out of the cameras, placed them in a ziploc bag, At the very least, he could save With that, he called out to the others and then they started off with the vertical shaft This would be the last interaction that they would have The remaining members of the Perovo team would wait for the team leader Pavel before starting their ascent. As Robbie and Jeff made their way to the vertical ropes, they reached a narrow traverse, almost like a bridge that went along one wall. Prior to the flooding, the chamber beside the bridge was 60 feet (18. 3 m) deep and 25 feet (7.6 m) wide of nothing but air. Now, it was almost completely flooded, At the end of this narrow traverse the source of the water pouring into the cave. Robbie stepped into the waterfall, and clipped his ascenders to the rope. Then he put his head down, took a deep breath, and started making his way up the rope The water was coming down so hard, it felt like It was literally as if his head Thankfully, he was able to tuck his chin, which allowed the water to run off of his helmet Focusing on just the white rope directly he moved his ascenders up rhythmically Finally, he reached an area with a small outcropping that he could step on and out of the waterfall to look up. He saw that the rope was coming out of a shoulder-sized but this was also the source of the water. Coming out of this little hole was a fire hose of water He thought to himself that there was no way he was gonna be able to make it through that intense downpour. At the same time, he couldn't just stop. He was the lead climber. Everyone else was coming up behind him and there was no telling what He had to at least try to make it through. When he got to the hole, the force of the water was so strong that he was only able to push his ascenders He finally made it through the squeeze and then realized that Jeff would have to do the same thing. He had no idea whether or not Jeff so he just kept climbing as high as he could In his panic, he hadn't realized that The water flowed down a different route to the squeeze, so he was relatively safe where he was. But because he was so full of adrenaline, he was mindlessly climbing for his life He only finally realized what he was doing Snapping out of it, he stopped and waited for Jeff When Jeff reached him, but he exclaimed that they were at least alive. The two of them silently wondered if the same Robbie and Jeff eventually made it up to camp 5 hoping they would see the Russians any minute. As the cave continued to shake around them, they occasionally looked down over the edge Miraculously, down below, they saw single headlamp When he was finally close enough, After he climbed up into camp, and he just shook his head silently. They all sat there, Down below, by the time Pavel had returned the bridge that Robbie and Jeff had walked across The rest of the team members had to actually The last to swim out was Pavel and as he was making his way out, All of the water draining deeper into the cave When he went through it, it spun him around By the time they were ascending, all of the deeper passages were completely submerged in water. Then, 15 minutes after Andrey emerged, five more lights could be seen One by one, all of the remaining members of the Perovo team made their way up to camp 5. Robbie watched the ascend out of the flooded passage One team member was even carrying a stove He thought to himself how glad he was If they had been the ones to climb up last, it's likely that they wouldn't have survived. And then when they climbed up into camp, they were quickly in the tent, having coffee Robbie on the other hand, For hours, he refused to take off his gear to see if the water was still rising. 200 feet (61 m) above them was a horizontal passage that they needed to pass to move higher into the cave. Normally, it's already half-filled with water With all of the flooding, As long as the flooding continued, they were trapped and just had to hope that the water Pavel reassured Robbie that they would wait And then over the course of the next 16 hours the roaring of the water slowly died down. The flood pulse ultimately lasted a total of 20 hours and was the result of a week of rain The week of rain had completely saturated the ground so by the time the storm happened, They later learned from a cab driver that the rain drops from the storm had been the size of nickels. This was actually a good learning experience for the team. They had previously been operating under the assumption that the cave only flooded in the wintertime. Following the expedition, plans were put in place Another camp was installed in the lower chambers to provide another escape point in the event of flooding. And despite this expedition being cut short, they had completed essentially everything New passages had been explored and mapped, cave species had been sampled, and although the camera equipment was destroyed, all of the pictures were preserved. But this wouldn't be the last accident Two years later in November of 2020, some people exploring the area This is typically a big no-no in the caving world, because then, anyone can access the cave Eight months later on August 4th, 2021, the same Perovo team returned to continue They descended into the cave as they had but then at 1300 feet (396 m), they found a pair of crampons and an ice axe. This didn't make sense. This equipment couldn't have just fallen into the cave There were no straight drops This meant that someone had to have come into the cave They continued further in, all the way to the permanent camp at 2000 feet (610 m). Then, to the second camp at 3,200 feet (975 m). And then all the way at 3,600 feet (1,097 m). Halfway into the deepest cave on Earth, they found the badly decomposed body of a man. He was wearing camouflage overalls, tracking boots, a helmet, he had two cell phones and he was still attached to the rope that he had used By the looks of the decomposition, he had been there for months. Although he had no ID on him authorities were able to identify the man as 37-year-old Then, using the information from the cell phones they were able to figure out Sergei lived in the city of Sochi, Russia, just East of the Russian border with Georgia and about two hours from the entrance He was an avid outdoorsman and frequently went on solo expeditions to explore the wilderness. On November 1st, 2020, he said goodbye to his family as he always did when he was going on one of these solo expeditions and then set off for the Gagra Mountains. He also didn't tell them where he was going, despite the fact that he was heading to a location that fewer people had set foot in than the international space station. Based on the documents and screenshots it seems that Sergei had spent He had printed out maps and materials specifically to navigate down into the cave. First, he made the ascent up into the mountains, to the cave entrance using his crampons and ice axe. Then, he fixed a rope to the opening Using the information that he had gathered he hauled all of his equipment in three transport bags through the tunnels and narrow passages. Then, using a lattice descender, he traveled down the massive vertical shafts He successfully made it to the first camp and then left some of the equipment later discovered by the Perovo team and then proceeded almost directly to the second camp. It was determined by the excrement found on site that he lived at the second camp for about a week From the second camp, Beyond that camp, there are some larger and more technically challenging vertical shafts. In addition, the cave becomes significantly wetter As any caver knows, proper equipment is crucial. The standard fleece underlayer is crucial to surviving the cold It's unclear exactly what happened but it seems as though he realized that he wouldn't be able to descend any further through the water with the equipment he had. At which point, he would've tried to but because he had already descended he was unable to get back out. Sergei had brought ascenders for his hands, meaning that he had no footholds He must have tried and tried but between the exhaustion and the cold, he eventually laid down to sleep Upon finding his body, The parade team went back up to the surface Due to the difficulty of the cave and the depth it would take a team of over a hundred individuals It's also particularly risky to be in a confined space because the gas that's given off can build up and become toxic at high enough levels. Despite how many people were involved in the rescue, they still ended up having to cut Sergei into pieces to successfully remove him from the cave. After his retrieval, For now, Veryovkina Cave is the deepest cave on Earth. But the Earth is a big place and caves are not nearly as readily viewable Veryovkina Cave was only crowned the deepest in 2018. It remains to be seen whether it will hold Hello everyone. If you made it this far, This is part 10 of the ongoing series so you may wanna check out the other videos If you enjoyed this video, I'd really appreciate it That helps out with the YouTube algorithm. And once again, thank you so much for watching and hopefully, I will see you in the next one.