Switzerland is a with its high mountains Advances gave birth to And this more sparked an evolution towards free climbing. And with a race began to the steepest, most difficult, big walls in Within arm's reach, we have that no one outside We have granite, gneiss, We have multi-pitch that also prove What a great way to show Great job, keep it up. Go for it Cedric! My name is Cedric Lachat. I'm Swiss, I'm 33, and have been I started out And little by little I began And that's where I'm at... Uh... You're 35... You're kidding... How would Hyperactive, I'm not hyperactive, I just If we plan to leave at 7am, And if we leave at 7:30am, it means which irks me. Ok, maybe I can't sit still, I clean the dishes before I can't even stand Cedric's always Your typical Swiss anchor, When he's not managing He always needs He's a machine! And when he's finally worn out, If you keep singing, He's a Swiss icon, the best Since I have French license plates He's the boss! One great thing about him He's the ideal man, He has so many flaws, It's the little things and I try not to get upset But when he spends all his time But I can also During filming I'm deaf, I complain too much, Is there anything "Swissway to Heaven" is a film that shines a spotlight This tiny country has so much depth For this project I chose those Of course I like moderate routes but I wanted to Pick and attempt to send to push my limits "Swissway to Heaven" that illustrate the mind-blowing Gastlosen is huge, People started climbing there 'Zahir' in Wendenstocke opened everyone's eyes to The Eiger has a long, It set the benchmark and is a key part of We chose Lauterbrunnen more The Matterhorn is an obvious choice, But there aren't any climbing for Cedric to fully The project also offers the chance Just one more reason that makes Having traveled all over I realized that I hadn't And the mountains The Swiss Alps The big walls and Our history is sick! The history behind A 5.14b route The whippers 900m of 5.13b A big wall so sick! Multi-pitch routes The landscapes It just makes The route is hard. Really burly. It's not easy. What motivated me is that it's such a beautiful line, and such an Wendenstocke is simply a 10 km long located south of A truly unique and one of the most But the wall's is the 1.5 hour up steep grassy If you fall it's a long way down, It's really wet and steep, It's not too exposed, But if you follow Cedric, I almost tripped We're a bit like There they are. Are you nuts? There's a trail, with cairns! And yesterday you made us Have you lost it? Just walk straight up, &quot;Mr. 5.14d&quot; runs straight up 5.14d doesn't start on Wendenstocke, is a cliff with in terms of both The first few pitches The wall isn't very steep, Small, razor-sharp edges You'd better love crimps, The hold broke! It's gone... I guess we It wasn't a very I wanted to climb with When climbing, you The Swiss are stingy Bolt right here? Things need to go smoothly, to have a close That's how I choose They're friends, They're versatile, The whole package needed The second half of the route but extremely committing. It's runout between bolts, When onsighting, you worry into no man's land. After climbing you're physically wasted, and then you have but with the severe runouts, Climbing in Wenden is Wenden has a long history It started with Brothers Yves and and their father, set out looking and impossibly-difficult To get to the top, whatever they used new techniques A necessary evolution sport climbing and mountaineering. The routes that we climbed a slog. Like Mt. Blanc and the Matterhorn, that we didn't find So in 1970, my brother Remy Just the two of us that's what We were fascinated by what "Better to put up and save existing So we became obsessed When putting up new routes, This approach came You look at a wall, you start from You had to climb And we usually descended All that changed, we started using standard gear When we couldn't use pitons We developed a taste for putting up Only the first 300 m of a wall, So you had The goal was but to put up a route Our routes were very runout because we put them up Since my bother Yves placing bolts on a 5.11b We didn't Only here and there When climbing you never feel like So we'd only place two bolts that's how I was lost! I couldn't remember It looked like I was definitely We didn't really think about We were so consumed we didn't have time to think or if we needed to place We had our way of doing things. Everyone was influenced by And often said, So we started to add Which meant that our father And now it allows us to be able They were Their gear The clothes they wore and they climbed True hardmen! When you look at their gear, He's wearing my caving chest harness Look at the ice screws, One hour I'd like to travel and show them How to use the rope If we traveled back we'd be climbing We'd be like Beat. Maybe Beat is And then just The Eiger's north face It was the last Many climbers tried the face to claim Through 1938, a lot of people People valued life and most of those who never The Eiger was climbed by Stephan Siegrist It was like traveling We had to train with to get used to it before It was a real honor to meet We just couldn't fathom climbing But Heckmair said to me, It makes you really appreciate just Tobias is THE for beginners! The Jungfrau train is an incredible You take the train pass through and are suddenly standing Roger Schaeli's climbs over 30 pitches It starts at the Stollenloch, and then it traverses You bivy halfway up and then Good, it looks dry. We can climb a big We're definitely We can climb This is the And what about This is Roger's This is for the adults, For him to grab it, the risk Rope! Last move. Awesome! You guys are crazy. Great piton-protected Too scary... But so stellar! It's fascinating isn't it? For more than the legend of the Eiger BASE jumpers 19 pitches, right? 'Fly' is 19 pitches long. And the last four 5.13d, 5.12c, You're totally drained Multi-pitch climbing People ask, "how do you train It's all in your head. Do you want to In a day is Climbing it in a day In a day and a half is We need to leave something For Adam? Adam could Adam, So, you don't know And don't understand Well then a few useful terms There are different ways You can say, over several days You got on the route, worked each pitch and one day and then another until you &quot;freed&quot; every Next there's a technique when attempting to send a route we swing leads. You send the route as a team, It applies to the pitches You send the route as a team This style is more efficient, Next you can say, Which means you started and you sent every pitch If you fall, you lower to the anchor, But it means that you sent in order, in a day. The plan is and then so that and then I'll to send Got it? Not so simple, is it? Anyway, action! I was at the end of the and the sun hit the wall. I was gassed, couldn't see, How many moves were left Five moves? For a route Maybe 400 m? I was so bummed! Everything just I said to myself, The was just one more and I said to Tobias, And he simply We lowered down And we waited, spending It was awful. What's great when just stuck here waiting after 450 m of you can safely say A quick SUNNY AND WARM!!!! We don't like the baking sun Every hold is way too greasy Both your feet scream out in pain Cedric Lachat is going to climb! It's so hot. The rock was still really warm But I had no choice. Every move But I dug deep, My guardian angel It's difficult The routes that are the level of athletic In terms of both training the level of climbing today But even today your head is still Way to go! The last Look... You're on camera. Shouldn't you be I'm filming you guys For me, Ratikon has a really I love how it feels, I love... I love the rock here. 'WoGu' is the final climb It's legendary, Probably the hardest Cedric's goal is to free Ground up. No falls. Go ahead Nina. For me, the goal to have a good time and to give it One of the reasons why I have is the strong bond that forms The adventure you experience On 'WoGu' my climbing partner You could say we work really Rock, paper, scissors... She thinks I lost... I'm carrying it. When it's just two of you, where you know that On the wall he's present, He's the best multi-pitch We don't even need Since he's deaf, talking to him I can't stand this Ratikon? It's often wet it's constantly If it's too hot and your fingertips This wall is humbling. 'WoGu' is the hardest project It's too hard. I'm getting spanked. I'm getting worked. The hold broke! I keep falling I probably It's tightening up. And you're still filming! It hurts everywhere... And guess what? I'm not giving up! I don't care, we're Unbelievable. I've made a decision. Have you taken No, but I decided that no more falls. Wise move. I'll let Nina take the big whippers, It's something else, runout 10 m between bolts, It takes a toll Beat for me He put up hard routes It's just so incredible! He's a genuine legend Successfully freeing requires a team effort, and Small foot. Match feet. Small left foothold Bump. Right foot on Wow, you got lucky! Get your right foot up. Now the hard clip. Place your foot Further right! Incredible! You were so lucky That was close. Which I don't like. It feels like a Lucky for you I listened to you Like I said, when he wants to, Cedric's project is It requires a lot of knowledge, to embark on such Seriously... Now we're good. The end. Swissway was I climbed a ton of routes, It was full of Would I do it again? Between the pressure to make the film, and having to climb it feels like What I really like is that I've where I can share Which means that I didn't I'm making the sickest They're going to taste so good, When you eat most climbers just They think that you have But if you want to climb hard, With fries of course. Perfect! This is what Eat this and (c)2021 - Guillaume Broust &amp; Cedric Lachat