- [Cuong] Fish sauce is the backbone of Vietnamese cuisine. Fish sauce is usually the fish and the salt. It makes a huge difference depending on where you make Red Boat fish sauce is produced that has been used for making fish sauce that we've worked for This island is known for producing the best fish sauce in the world. Everything is starting in the ocean, so we've got to have the Every fishing boat is If they find a sign of around there, they will Usually for the light to be bright enough, it has to be at night. So, when the anchovies detect You get them all together and fish. Once the anchovies get off the net, they immediately salt the It preserves it from being rotten. They kill the bad bacteria and they promote the good ones to thrive. And that's very, very (gentle music) (speaking Vietnamese) There are many kind of anchovies, but the ones that are found It yields a higher of fish from other regions. Protein turns into umami, and that's the flavor that Fish sauce, how it's made, is salted fish and fermented over a period of time. So, the enzyme is the thing that lives inside the fish guts, right? So, that's why we are not gutting it out, because that's all the agents So, we salted the whole anchovies. So this is all happening naturally. This is the Red Boat barrel house. This is where we do fermentation using traditional methods. (upbeat music) There are about 75 barrels right here. Each barrel can hold about 13 tons of salted anchovies. The wood we use, very traditional wood, this is what all the These barrels can last for a This is the beginning, This is the barrel. So, we want to keep it just to refer back to. When the salt is applied to the fish, it flushes out all the because fish has a lot of water. We don't want that water See how cloudy the fluid is? The next critical step of salinity that goes inside the fish. We're looking at, basically, So, when it's lower than by putting salt in here and (speaking Vietnamese) (speaking Vietnamese) (speaking Vietnamese) (speaking Vietnamese) (speaking Vietnamese) (speaking Vietnamese) (speaking Vietnamese) In Vietnam, fish sauce is mandated, you have to disclose the N, so that the consumer knows 40 N mean 40 grams of nitrogen per liter. The nitrogen's related that's inside the sauce. Every year we have one barrel that pops, meaning the protein level So, we decide to call That's a gift from mother nature. (speaking Vietnamese) Everything is fermenting naturally, so the result is different. 39, 40, 41, 38, 42. Even though right next to each other, the same batch of fish, it comes out slightly different. We kind of blend it so we and the flavor so that (speaking Vietnamese) So, that's the blending that we can get to the So, that's the art piece, is like harmonizing everything together. (speaking Vietnamese) So, we bottle our fish sauce Our product is mainly for I started my life on the boat. You know, I left the country 45 years ago as an immigrant, you know, being on the ocean for so long (gentle music) So, I was involved with the and over 20 years with Apple. One day I had an assignment and I said, &quot;Mom, I for you. Try it.&quot; When I gave it her and she and she almost cried. (speaking Vietnamese) When I see my mom's is it that much that she's been holding and not telling us like, oh, where is this kind of fish sauce?&quot; After the war ended, the trade embargoes, so nothing from Vietnam so everybody had to get And so I said, &quot;Okay, how Phu Quoc sauce has been made a hundred years ago, we're going to do it like that. (gentle music continues) - Today what I want to do is style of Nashville hot chicken. We're going to be serving sweet chili sauce that we're to the chicken. So, we have some marinated chicken wings. What I do is just grab black pepper. We actually add a little and a little bit of sugar. And then with that, we add a little bit of Red Boat fish sauce here. Fish sauce could fit in Basically it's umami in a bottle. What you want to do is kind of massage that mixture into the chicken. We'll dredge it in some flour. You know, growing up as there wasn't anything that I wanted more than to be American. So, when it came to Vietnamese food, I didn't really care very much for it. As you progress in your career, you start to look for meaningful things that really give your I came across Red Boat, so This is what my mom always used and she's always told me that if your dishes are you just add a little bit of fish sauce and it makes a dish better. And then we'll let that fry Every culture seems to have but what I love about it is that there is literally that comes with fried chicken. In the industry, this is what we call GBD. It's golden brown and delicious That's what you're looking for. We're gonna make a play on This is fresh palm sugar from Cambodia. I have some vinegar, and then of the sweet chili and a fairly good amount of fish sauce. You want that salty, you want that sweet flavor and then that acidity that you get from the vinegar really helps balance it all out. And once that simmers and reduces, we'll use that as a glaze for the chicken. So, this is our Pretty a variety of chilies, peppers, and a little bit of sugar that really helps balance everything out. So, we want to make sure that the spice is nicely, evenly coated. And then, last but not We're going to actually One of the things that I cuisine is its use of lots of fresh herbs. That is a Nashville-style hot chicken with a Vietnamese fish (gentle music) Through my craft, being a cook, little did I know that that path was going to take me full circle, it's because of a very simple condiment. It really brings me home and it reminds me of my mom, my dad, all in one perfect bite. I'm like literally tearing up, something as simple as a back to rediscovering who you are. If it wasn't for something I don't know where I would be as a chef. - People ask me, &quot;Why I didn't know what I get into. I grew up with this fish sauce and I didn't know how significant it was. When I was in elementary, my mom gave me the little bottle. She said if the food is not good, use it and everything's good. So, it means a lot to me. You know, the more you get into it you stumble into different challenges, and I love challenges. I love that because it's all my life when I worked in IT, &quot;Give me the problem, I'll solve it for you.&quot; And then the kids get involved. Tracy, gets involved, Kevin, my wife, of course is but so the family is actually Without the passion, you cannot They see the purpose, So, we're very appreciative We're just fortunate to grow up with this and we remember it. So, we cannot let it be forgotten. (gentle music)