The Ottoman Janissaries were arguably the most The Sultan's elite warriors were notorious and skill with the musket. They were forcibly families and then trained for years to become Janissaries were the Sultan's bodyguard, his loyal They were the centerpiece of the standard Ottoman the earliest adopters of volley fire tactics. No the Ottoman Empire. In this video, we explore why they were recruited from enslaved Christians, from Western pike and shot armies. Ottoman-controlled Balkans, Christian parents They knew that the Ottomans had come to take their of the Janissaries' recruits came from the a form of forced recruitment in which Christian to 5 years, educated as Muslims, and trained youths were involved, but historians estimate year. Only families with a single son and Jewish between 8 and 20 years old and unattached, so malleable. In some areas of the Balkans, for is still a symbol of the so-called "Turkish by the Ottomans. But it was also the basis the child levy was not part of the Ottomans' back and see how the Janissaries emerged. territory from a small principality (beylik) in empire in the 15th century, the need for a more and Murad I reformed their troops and replaced controlled army that was sworn to support (serratkulu), which were raised by the provincial and a central standing army known as "the slaves Porte is a reference to the central government in essence the Sultan's household divisions Creating YouTube-videos can be a daunting have to learn it all by yourself. Here's where in. Invideo is an AI powered program that can promts. Their AI allows anybody to get into video me run you through the process: type your video that's it. It's usually best if you add as many best results. Now Invideo's AI processes the few minutes. You can then choose the audience, on which you are planning to upload the video. can even add your own voice to and then easily can create videos without having to edit or record edit command box below the video. Just type in the switch the voiceover from male to female. but it's in the description below and start using Invideo for free or upgrade to a paid plan which starts and gain access to millions of royalty-free The term "janissary" (Yeni ceri) means "new and the nature of their original tasks are still Hechelhammer assumes that they initially served and took on more functions. In these early from the non-Muslim prisoners of war taken by the the Ottoman Empire and its army grew, it became more than the approximately 2,000 men who served child levy was introduced. It allowed the corps to did Christian boys become elite Muslim soldiers? suitable boys, they took them to Constantinople. the best 5 to 7% were chosen for palace service Constantinople, and Galata. Education at to the highest ranks of the empire. Probably such success was Sokollu Mehmed Pasha, who won Grand Vizier of the Ottoman Empire in 1565. Anatolian farmer families, who systematically and the rules of Islam. Hard physical labor returned to Constantinople after five to seven For example, they might work on the transport construction projects, or in the palace gardens. the corps but remained recruits and even became serving the Sultan in that capacity. For the this period of indoctrination and hard labor. the acemi ocagi. There, groups of around 10 The recruits lived in seclusion and celibacy, They were supposed to internalize loyalty to The practical training was focused on fighting be practiced. The recruits spent days shooting at movements. This endless drill was particularly that were their hallmark. Western observers and speed of the Ottoman marksmen. At the end of who passed received the characteristic Janissary As the empire expanded, so did the corps. to over 53,000 by 1708. The empire needed more and and fight its numerous wars--such as the conflict size of the corps increased, the influence of the were aware of their importance and began to make For example, when Sultan Murad II abdicated in they opposed the change of ruler, and Murad had The Janissary Corps was a closed-off, elite, training and indoctrination caused its exclusively for war. The Janissaries lived in and were prohibited from marrying or conducting they followed a strict code of conduct: alcohol, and cleanliness were priorities. Desertion and isolated life strengthened the esprit de corps indestructible fighting morale for which they in the West as merciless, fanatical warriors. the public and Western researchers, although it them than real fanaticism. What is true, however, views. They followed the teachings of a very the Bektashi. The Bektashi also provided their organization and inspired the costumes of called a bork or kece, symbolizes the The Janissaries were military slaves who belonged were provided with food, exempted from they weren't liable to normal persecution; them. Their commander was very influential and who, interestingly, was always a member of the the aga of the Janissaries, oversaw the three Aga (boluk), which provided the Sultan's provided the frontier troops; the Regiment the training unit (acemi ocagi).INF The regiments which were tactically independent. They usually community the Janissaries lived in as the men The Janissaries referred to their society as the corps' tribal tradition and self-perception rank names, which were based on positions on the For instance, the captain of a company was called the most important symbol of the Janissaries was similar to that of a standard in a Western troop. Janissaries swore allegiance to the Sultan and was a sign of mutiny, and losing the cauldron was The Janissaries had a wide range of garrisoned border fortresses, fought on ships, and Constantinople. Their core task, however, was for their use of the musket. In their early and they had long clung to the traditional bow . apparent during the wars of the 1440s, more and the first times that the use of a small number of in 1444, in which a European coalition attempted but failed. The sultans encouraged the use of at least half of the Janissaries were equipped an expert on the history of the Ottoman Empire, the empire's elite: the sultans tried to restrict control over the powerful weapon. Although this weapon of the Janissaries. But while they are were also skilled melee fighters. Their arsenal swords to the famous yatagan, a short saber. were pikes and bayonets. This is because the formation as Western pike and shot armies did and firepower, and individual skill in battle. involved in all the empire's major campaigns. the conquests of Edirne in 1361 and Konya in 1389; in 1453 and the sieges of Vienna in 1529 and specialty. Their corps included specialists such skillfully prepared the attacks, while contingents rushed forward to break the enemy lines or gain a kind of death squadron, heavily armed and rewarded or the walls breached, the Janissaries launched The tactics and fighting methods of the researched. This is due at least in part to the secret and rarely wrote them down. However, they even adopted the latest methods. One example is that the Ottomans adopted this mode of fire much such as Gabor Agoston have convincingly argued volley fire as early as the Battle of Mohacs in was stopped by the Janissaries' musketry and decisively defeated by an Ottoman counterattack. at the Sultan's side and often formed the center what historian Brian Davies calls "the standard formation was used regularly by the Ottomans as where they defeated a Hungarian-led army under and Edward Erickson write, the Ottomans were had even created a special unit, the Hearth of which was in charge of artillery transport and tabur cengi was probably inspired by Bohemian more heavily on artillery and infantry firepower in which men armed with polearms and wide shields simply stationed Janissaries with heavier muskets Janissaries with lighter firearms in a formation and mantelets. In battle, a cavalry screen usually Janissaries and the artillery awaited them in of artillery and small firearms had weakened in volleys by rotating the ranks. Finally, they At the end of the 16th century, the Ottoman problems. The Sultans' power decreased, and their this meant that fewer and fewer provincial troops expanded to fill the gap. As a result, it grew in the first half of the 17th century. Since the ever more sons of Janissaries and Muslim recruits did not have to undergo the Janissaries' and this failure led to internal disintegration. successes became rare, and the principles of the were allowed to run businesses, marry, and even The new recruitment methods became so prevalent utterly abandoned at the end of the 17th century. with the elite troops of the 16th century. They ran businesses, a sort of ruling class. from 1645 onwards, the Aga of the Janissaries also influenced non-military politics. As a result The Janissaries demanded more privileges or The Janissaries' thirst for power and their loyalty to the Sultan. The decisive moment who recognized the problems of his military system throne. When he attempted to limit the power of out, and the Janissaries strangled him to death. were more riots. The Janissaries went even further eventually got the situation under control, but Janissaries continued. When Selim III tried to it was obvious that the Janissaries had become a took a more cautious approach. He consolidated his reform plans in 1826. As expected, the Janissaries large-scale military operation, Mahmud had his the Janissaries and shoot all those inside spot. On June 17, 1826, the Sultan finally this was dubbed the Auspicious Incident. With