I want you to imagine playing Super Mario 64 hear Mario's voice for the first time as the the courtyard and acclimate yourself to the stare at that strange star statue. You meander feel uneasy over its claustrophobic corridors. You you to wonder what else is possible across these wall kick, and triple jump for the first time and most everyone that played the game upon release, this game was, but I doubt you could have videos, art, and raw passion that would spawn Super Mario 64 may be over 25 years old, but Everything about it - its levels, its movement, inspired the imaginations of millions around the of that. How the game came to be, what made and how its multifaceted community has kept its I'm Liam Triforce and this is a video about To create a game that no one has made before designers and programmers from the 1970s all for which there is no precedent is a daunting error. Throughout these decades of pioneering, action-adventure games, fighting games, puzzle their respective fields. But when something lays the groundwork for all future games of Our creative endeavours are often just For example, my content is essentially a blend of a creator. The notion of a work being "original" to form something you haven't seen before. interactive medium, inspiration usually came from development process. For example, Tetris was you have to fit all of the pieces inside a single concept to a computer, wherein seven tetrominoes and the player would have to fill the screen to testing his idea that he realized completed lines decided to have them be deleted once cleared, Ocarina of Time's staff had a desire to into 3D, but there was no precedent Key members of the staff took a trip to the Toei that was being put on. During the show, the hero and yet he'd always prevail. Yoshiaki Koizumi only one enemy would attack the hero at a time in idea for Z-targeting specific enemies. Toru way the fighters moved in the kusarigama show, Z-targeting combat that the final game features. and you can switch targets on the fly to manage commonplace in 3D action games, adventure games, While Ocarina of Time and Super Mario 64 were after most of the staff had already experienced There was even less of an existing template for 3D But few companies knew how to tread Super Mario 64 technically wasn't the first 3D to take advantage of the jump to 3D graphics in and games in which you run forward from a true 3D platform game was called Alpha Waves - forward and backward and turn left a setup that we would later come to know as "tank early 3D platforming efforts; you can feel and Bubsy 3D from 1996. Jumping Flash actually as you jump around open-ended levels looking for level, as well as power-ups for your blaster perspective and the viewpoint panning down during perception when viewing a two-dimensional and the general non-linear structure of each structure that Mario 64 would eventually adopt. framework seen in Jumping Flash, but it was controls, dull level design, textureless "Good thing I'm a cartoon!!" Crash Bandicoot, released in 1996, was perhaps the and its structure remained unique against Super as they took the perspective of a typical and allowed him to move in eight directions, that made Crash such a fun game. The controls, While they did break away from the tank controls the D-Pad still limited you. As the using digital buttons to perform very specific movement - made certain scenarios way more The controls would obviously be cleaned up in The point is - most controllers at the time with the challenges of platforming in a 3D Crash Bandicoot. Digital inputs can only have either pressed or it isn't. Basically, it Analog input, however, can factor in all of the an input method that had been abandoned since Nintendo was in a unique position when able to design the game in conjunction with this is a philosophy that Nintendo still uses. The and the Nintendo Switch and Super Mario Odyssey game designers and console architects. While he and the other team members could only test out Miyamoto desired an analog stick to give hindsight is 20/20, but tank controls wouldn't have felt like "Mario." The console architects an analog thumbstick. Other than an obscure Sega thumbstick was seldom attempted. As absurd as the for the rest of your fingers to be free to press back. The freedom that this thumbstick afforded This didn't come easy, though. With tank controls, right. Being able to move Mario freely like this months were spent deciding on how the heck they Giles Goddard - who programmed Mario's face on "probably thousands" of camera setups because I mean, no one had really done anything like Should we allow players to control it? Should Eventually, they settled on a combination of the specific scenarios depending on what needed needed. Wherever the camera was pointed would on the analog stick, which was an insanely clever However, this took up most of the game's design was kind of frantically performed at the together," according to Miyamoto. He wanted this number was cut in half as it simply wasn't The Nintendo 64's launch was delayed from the 1995 game could be finished. This took time away from fifth generation, but then-president of Nintendo "unconditionally." After the control and camera were...relatively complete, the game and the console Space World in November 1995. Visitors to the People of all ages were clamouring beautiful face was so mesmerizing that Giles with it on the title screen and create art. The touching the analog stick you can enter goofy This little secret foreshadowed the endless wonder In footage from Space World, you can see just how never experienced anything like it. It seemed With but a single game, Nintendo was able to a writer for Ars Technica that worked at had this to say about the effect the "The lack of launch titles proved to Mario 64 carried the day almost entirely on a broad spectrum of launch titles to appeal to but Nintendo found the exception: a single amazing console players had never experienced, could bear The game's impact was felt immediately. Analog and several 3D games to come would emulate Mario contexts. The structure of the game would directly Nearly every 3D game to follow can back to the things that Mario 64 pioneered. While it's hard to agree with every decision he's deny just how much of an impact Miyamoto has had Mario 64, he provided an alternative approach earlier. Super Mario 64 evaluated the problems opted to use analog control in an entirely new born from the notion that a "point-A to point-B" of a jump for a 3D platformer, and their solution decided to reach that 70-star goal. The dynamic players to have control over where they point an unfamiliar perspective. These key elements and so the developers sought solutions to these is a great thing, it is equally important to or otherwise have strong potential. They saw the Alpha Waves did in 1990 with its controls and its graphics, or Jumping Flash in 1995 with its And for that, I have the utmost respect In short - seemingly unprecedented ideas in other games, a different medium, from always has its inspirations. It's all and interpret your inspirations, and in this I don't remember a lot about my first playthrough and courtyard leaving a huge impact on me. The room for players to be completely overwhelmed, and The game tells you to head over the castle, but here. There's no music, no urgency to speak arrival - all that exists to accompany you waterfall nearby. You can read the signs you can test out your moveset, climb trees, I spent several minutes just playing around feels like home, or like the street outside and the courtyard is merely an extension of As a central hub, Princess Peach's Castle blew my mystery. But what made it so special was how it Each door may require a certain number of are completely up to you. 1 star could lead you to 3 stars could mean either Cool, Cool Mountain or access to Lethal Lava Land, Shifting Sand Land long as you meet those star requirements, you can This is true for the levels as well. While the and the hint before you enter alludes to King the plains at your leisure. As you run along the They are strategically placed along Bob-omb concepts, and each time you grab one, it'll This red coin is placed about these rotating crucial in conveying the importance of timing flip over when it reaches the top, causing Mario it becomes mandatory in Whomp's Fortress, as it these platforms appear throughout the game. In the but they appear over a bottomless pit, making platforming more daunting. The flipping blocks serve the same purpose in gameplay with a much in the Bowser stages are also reminiscent platforms serving as your last obstacle between of them means losing a lot of progress. All this one red coin in Bob-omb Battlefield, Other red coins, like this one on the hill reward taking your first steps into true These red coins teach you about slippery slopes, which are further tested in Peach's secret slide floating island, which remains a mystery until or you gather all of your knowledge of the jump to make it over. This red coin can only be the Chain Chomp. This thing terrified me as a the loudness of its bark... but you can grab a and even ground pound the post that This level is merely a sampling of the imagination tutorials like the platforms, the strategically teaches players how to judge distance and Bob-omb may just wander slowly towards you, but boss is essential. The race with Koopa the Quick a test of their experience with Mario's abilities. Sky" alludes to those mystifying hollow item boxes which asks players to search for the solution freedom at play distinguishes itself from the an excellent job setting up the magic and wonder and the settings for which you can apply them, terrain and compact size make it the perfect as well as the game's overall structure, function Every time you'd lose all your lives, you'd have at it until you've eventually mastered it. This is the stars each have different objectives, you're reasons. This organically allows players to become can use Mario's moves to the fullest extent, until Red coins continue to push players to memorize level, while also challenging them to use Mario's means carefully jumping across floating islands in Jolly Roger Bay, working through limited cliffside challenges, or putting mastery over your maze. The special Bowser levels that block access coins for a secret power star, and they challenge compress all of the concepts taught and tested of platforming brilliance. Each element appears platforms, moving platforms, skinny and winding its tendency to raise and lower to conceal that calls back to the upstairs levels and their Each star hints at a new challenge or secret in venture off into the unknown. Some star names can actually refers to the reward you get for killing "Pyramid Puzzle" in Shifting Sand Land is way reveals itself when you accidentally while "Wall Kicks Will Work" in Cool, Cool as to where you need to be looking. With that your imagination flowing. "Through the Jet Stream" before you have the prerequisite for obtaining Can Move" in Hazy Maze Cave, which alludes to a depths of the cave. It leads to the green switch, Imagination and discovery are at the heart of and the "itty bitty secrets" in Tiny-Huge Island Sand Land's four pillars reveal the entrance and it too contains several secrets of the star that sits at the top as a reward for Puzzle" that might seem vague at first, but with up being a fair challenge trying to find all of secret slide that was just barely visible on the Power Star. Jumping into Lethal Lava Land's active the coin trail in the cabin on Cool, Cool Mountain Big Boo's Haunt and its assortment of doors for boos and red coins, finding the Koopa shell the secret town in Wet Dry World Oh, and Hazy Maze Cave caused my imagination to and ways that the maze intersected. The toxic maze and the red coin room had an upper level that jumps. I remember my mind being blown when I you down to a dank cavern full of water, which named Dorrie, but also a couple secrets of its enables you to collect more stars! This game is an exploration and riddles. These secrets seemed Super Mario World, with Mario 3's secret flute World's plentiful secret exits that lead to more This is also why I adored the castle itself. levels - it had theming, as well as secret A ray of light eventually shines down from the up at it transports you to the Wing Cap stage. A Jolly Roger Bay hints at a secret area accessible room off the beaten path in the basement can be the pathway. This also drains the castle moat And I always had a soft spot for the entrance to in a nearby wall that doesn't have a painting on the entrance to Shifting Sand Land. While this for its atmosphere. As soon as you walk into the no proper level painting to speak of. I don't Mario and the Lakitu that controls the camera Miyamoto likes to experiment with multiple oddball and I like to think that this mirror was one of Island - you have three paintings, with two There's a medium-sized hall, a teensy-tiny little all look similar when you first enter the room. toward the paintings. This effect may not have example of strong theming in each of the castle's programming trick in hindsight, but again - the before Bowser's endless stairs has the clock and and a bonus level involving the Wing Cap. The the sky at twilight, potentially representing Maybe I'm reading too deep into it, but that's After all, I only had 20 more stars The levels in Super Mario 64 are so incredibly theming. After Bob-omb Battlefield and Whomp's suddenly thrust into an explosion of creativity Cool, Cool Mountain's snowy, slippery terrain is and each slide can have its own objectives with Then there's Big Boo's Haunt, nowhere with its foreboding art direction intersecting rooms that each have their Of course, I can't forget Jolly Roger Bay with and slower, water-based exploration. Although not mysteries of its own with the underwater cave, the Shifting Sand Land has quicksand and multiple but risky platforming segments, Tiny-Huge Island and beautifully transitions it into 3D, with and giant modes and the organic challenge that feeling distinct from one another. Sure, some than the others, and we'll discuss them in precise controls and the exciting levels that and the major reason I find it so replayable As you go on to solve each of the you'll no doubt have memorized the level layout to ultimate test if you decide to go for the stars these stars. This might sound absurd, but I think to go for in the entire game. They aren't the most depend on the player's ability to collect coins, if the terrain and level layout is often perilous, routing and rewarding memorization that I love the level, as you look for pockets of coins, find wealth of coins, choose when to enter sub-areas knowledge of the level paying off as I watch that playgrounds I've spent so much of my time in, as I've basically mastered them. Coins are also objectives, which means further tests of your The reason I love the 100-coin stars so much is combine both exploration with clever movement, 64, hands down - the movement. For years, 3D standard set by this game's movement. Alongside level design, the ways in which you can chain player freedom. There are signs plastered of Mario's moveset, and certain stars deliberately Certain stars require mastering the art of wall high or far to reach without utilizing a navigation and fighting enemies much easier, what I believe most players will be spending punishment for failing these maneuvers out here, The triple jump allows Mario to but because you need a running start, you need The long jump speeds up traversal and can clear The sideflip is a quick and easy way to gain move than a triple jump, but it too locks Mario the backflip can be performed from a standstill so it's perfect when you don't have any room but it doesn't really connect with any other moves one of the greatest moves Mario can perform, if slides forward after performing it, prompting you it can be performed while Mario is running, it clears large distances while also having the jumping maneuvers. You can also chain it together This brings us to the most important part of each move is capable of in isolation. It is also the "Wall Kicks Will Work'' star I alluded to on why chaining moves together can help you find and its placement in the level requires a cheeky in the first place. It combines everything that I how they can be a better Mario. Basically, you jump high and far enough to reach the first that he lands on the next platform. The next wall, need to perform both a triple jump and another over to the star. I may have made this look easy, star in my childhood. I just kept throwing myself down and was able to scale the cliffs with ease. to see every level in this game in a new light, of combining Mario's moves to perform feats and when applied to the level design - the true comes to freedom, nothing feels more liberating One of the reasons I loved Ocarina of Time so its mechanics enabled more than just the intended planting magic beans with a Cucco or cheating a sneaky pause timing, or perhaps freezing a Moblin with the Skull Hammer - it was incredibly you could connect different items and mechanics sometimes there would quite literally While these emergent solutions don't have you can obtain the stars in both Jolly Roger Bay by entering the stream at an angle and optimally skips the need to grab the metal cap, meaning you much earlier than intended. That said, movement Big Boo's Haunt is an example of a level that for that it remains one of my favourites. It's not ominous art direction and musical accompaniment its design. The sideflip wall kick is perhaps the Instant height, followed by even more height and for the "Shoot Into the Wild Blue" star is point - it's the only way I can grab this thing. Anyway, back to Big Boo's Haunt. After defeating mansion. The only nearby platforms are parts of surrounded by slopes. You have to long jump and star, or at least that's how I solved it. These often demands from you, and the shortcuts The star atop the mansion is also what clued me in and how I eventually learned to grab called "Shining Atop the Pyramid" in a new way. You can either circle around the entire level or you can abuse the fact that slopes don't affect hill, and use the momentum from sliding down and reach the star. In Cool, Cool Mountain, you and jumping off of this slope here. It's a little the toxic maze for the emergency exit entirely by In Tall, Tall Mountain you can skip the slide by your momentum. Oh my gosh, I completely forgot Any of the trickier platforming in this game as it can help steer you in the right direction, Anyway, even simple things like long-jumping over the star in the alcove that normally requires skipping the arrow lifts in Wet Dry World, or beat Koopa the Quick to the goal (...I'm not sure discoveries that don't necessarily require complex makes Super Mario 64 so infinitely replayable. World 1-1 in the original Super Mario Bros., but that much, much more is possible. All that's Discovery is at the heart of this game in all level design for the first time, discovering discovering solutions to the riddles conveyed can bend the controls and level design to your discovering new ways to chain moves together and situation. The submarine in Dire, Dire Docks, in the Fire Sea. This leaves the 8 red coins that you can pole-jump your way around to collect the submarine intact, with some precise movement Recently, I was streaming this game on Twitch Bowser in the Fire Sea as fast as I could. These which makes walking up difficult and There's a red coin on one of these platforms reach the next as the platforms move. In order a ground pound to reach it, and somehow the hitbox able to grab the coin. Sure, I could have just I when I know what's possible in this game? That Not every level is perfect, though. Miyamoto together" in time for the game's release, and some apparent. Tick Tock Clock is a controversial several tricky platforming challenges with stars Either grabbing a star or dying means and that is seen as repetitive by a lot of people. platforms are clustered together as you experimenting with Mario's moveset. Of course, and it has one of the most annoying 100-coin challenge. It feels like a way to prove myself It also has one of my favourite secrets in the and level elements move. If you enter when the 3, everything will move slowly. 12, everything you to get creative when elevators don't Finally, 6 makes everything move at a Despite some of the levels in the upstairs section that I truly despise is Rainbow Ride. That major is exacerbated here, wherein the level is too Thus, you're stuck riding the flying carpet for it means waiting on the carpet all over again. but the 100 coin mission? Yeah...you There's also Wet-Dry World, which...I don't know...I I think I'll save this level for later; it has this strange aura about Anyway - there is an upside to all of these sucky a certain Power Star, you can simply leave and stars obviously makes these stars unavoidable, to begin with, this liberates players to forge when it comes to finding the wackiest solutions to When talking about chaining moves together and no one has been able to flesh out and master It is one of the largest facets of Super Mario and viewers, and a showcase for the beauty and movement. See, speedrunners aren't just finding levels with advanced techniques. They're also When we observe some of these fantastic feats few of us are actually conscious of how much work a few speedruns myself many years ago, I have an a chance at a world record. These days, I don't learning how to run Skyward Sword at some point and I've flirted with the idea of running Mario but I just can't commit like I could when I showed you was from my last speedrun to date, had graduated college. My last submitted run for splits were so amazing. I was able to implement if I already have a firm grasp on the beauty of no Siglemic or Simply or Cheese or...ok, well, I I firmly believe Super Mario 64 is at least speedrunning to the mainstream, and I think we Siglemic is a legend not just in but also in speedrunning as a whole. In popular streamers on Twitch simply due to the No one had really seen anything like what Siglemic spread like wildfire. Several news articles and several top runners credit Siglemic as of the speedrunning scene for many years now (and but Sig's impact can still be felt in how That said, a popular game means competition. grueling it is to be competitive on With over 7000 total players and a tremendously runners could be playing for decades With that said, they can get pretty Let's take a look primarily at 120-Star runs In order to get the best time 1. Optimize their movement so that Mario is While occasionally runners will need to slow essence of the game itself), fast movement is will keep Mario moving as fast as he needs to go learned that jumping and immediately diving is a and timing your rollout (meaning pressing A at the important step. I also learned that you can do than performing it regularly. Speedrunners think the booty burn in Lethal Lava Land's volcano to immediately knock out the big bully as it spawns. they can apply Mario's moves to the level design looking over every move in Mario's kit, how fast he could gain, and how much time it could save in Tall Mountain. He long jumps over to the log, wall kick and triple jumps to just barely make it up ledge grab combo to make it to the peak. From the it took him around 11 seconds to grab the monkey. mountain, and a testament to how applications so long as you decide to look for them. Obviously, Mario 64 features to create some awesome skips, in order to be performed optimally. Even in tricks that skip pretty much the entire game, The only trick I can think of that isn't dependent famous glitch in all of speedrunning. The has transcended the run itself and bled into because it's so hilarious to watch. The concept of to fly through doors and walls is what I think a medium. I still remember the first time I saw a what speedrunning was. I found a video on YouTube try it myself. After what seemed like forever, I to Bowser, and I rejoiced. As a young lad, I was have spent countless hours practicing their BLJs which they can be performed. The elevator in Big in the Dark World early, and with the assistance an enduring glitch, and one that is now closely Personally, my favourite trick in Super don't have to do it. Runners have found a way but it is so difficult that at one point it was ship, you grab a Bob-omb, jump, quickly throw it start moving Mario backwards, which runners have Chomp star in Bob-omb Battlefield, and to get Anyway, you carefully maneuver Mario over here, again, and perform a precise series of movements here, the backward speed from holding the Bob-omb you can watch other videos for a more in-depth need to know for now is that this trick is Top runners have used savestates to make it up to world have been able to perform this trick it for the first time without the use of tools. into a new 120-star route as currently Rainbow and attempting carpetless this late in a run is such, it is suggested that runners do a difficult go downstairs, perform an even more difficult BLJ the other key, and THEN BLJ all the way up to more stars and continue the run like normal. doubt it will ever become something that runners All in all - precision and practice is the optimal movement in Super Mario 64, and the fact comes to this type of platforming makes the things But that's Mario 64. It is truly Anyway, speaking of routing: 2. Runners need to know when to get each star. stars in a specific order. The less time or areas you've already wandered through, little time saves throughout the game based and there are differing routes depending 3. Runners need to create the most optimal Most players will create their own routes and creating super fast routes for them is an 120-star run of this game are constantly trying and which stars go best with the 100-coin mission. would always be a perfect pair, but it depends, and stars to grab. Shifting Sand Land pairs its whereas Lethal Lava Land pairs it with a personally figured out in my years of playing which allows you to ride across the lava before jumping into the volcano. The game even along the lava and certain level elements that I find that 100-coin missions are often the most just a sampling of what it's like, here is a brief doing some quick rollouts, he sets up a triple eyeball, and upon defeating it, he allows the he ground pounds this block for a red coin and which nets him a cool five coins. He then sets block for the final red coin. The star spawns, he and then grabs the 100-coin star before grabbing this up in the 120-star route is a freaking All of these factors make Super Mario 64 But it also fostered one of the most passionate be competitive, you need to make this game your a talented young man named Simply decided to Big Simp got his start when he discovered the game again on an emulator. His Mom got got serious about running the game. He spent his with Cheese - another legendary runner - and point where he made it to third place. He severely something that many speedrunners face as they Speedrunning is a physically and mentally developed tendonitis and carpal tunnel while He had to stop playing Super Mario 64 altogether despite being so close to the world record. With Prescription," he was eventually able to cure his runs over a period of six months and feeling in a run that took place in May of 2020. After years of self-doubt, he finally achieved his very Of course, a handful of runners have been able and each of them have their own stories Cheese managed to set a world record at being sleep-deprived and ill. His movement and the record was well-deserved. I can't but for a greater look into the journeys of out the Twitch and YouTube channels for I think Super Mario 64 accomplishes one of the people watching. It doesn't matter what runners entertaining due to the precision and split-second Speedrunning encompasses the gorgeous depth and it will continue to serve as a strong pillar I mean, what else can you say about Super The levels are a joy to explore and master, the require players to think outside of the box at as the stars can be. And the controls, oh man - stick affords you and the ways in which you can and the mastery of Mario's moveset, the satisfying gaps that you can observe between players as ...But I have one little problem with them. the game with relative ease, but there's one Usually, if you quickly switch to the position Mario will slide before turning around and and it works. We've seen this with the sideflip animation only comes out when you have enough without much speed, Mario will perform an awkward Look here - all I'm doing is pushing straight and Mario feels the need to perform wide u-turns This is why I often stop dead in my tracks on because if I try to keep moving after landing from me killed. Yeah, it's a minor issue, but an issue steps to alleviate. Super Mario Sunshine still and it takes less speed to go into a skid, so it With me gushing over Super Mario 64's brilliance, fact that it's been over 25 years since it was followed in its wake, and they all have their Future 3D Mario games have cleaned up and people have started with those, instead working A lot of people have had issues with the controls, to have some, too. I can go on about what dependent on the player's ability to acclimate and I continue to replay it endlessly, I cannot and thus it is impossible for me to give Super Mario 64 for the first time. Of course, I 3D games and has never played Mario 64, but To understand if Super Mario 64's controls could back then, I needed an unbiased, outside Outside of Mario Kart and Wii Sports, my Dad released outside of the 1980s. During most of LOT of arcade games and pinball. For someone that his arcade muscle memory remains intact. We a few years ago, and he managed to beat my high was good at Galaga, but man. Watching someone who a totally different ballgame. However, his gaming As games shifted away from that arcade philosophy more on having a level-by-level progression scheme from the medium as a whole. He's even told me that and I quote: "gets frustrated when He primarily played them to kill time and the brevity of arcade gaming sessions allowed watches films over TV shows. He just doesn't get Of course, ever since I was a kid, I've always games have been able to win him over. One day, Monkey Ball began as an arcade game, with higher on how fast you clear stages and how many bananas that it was controlled exclusively with the there was a learning curve as he grappled with the once he understood that - he was hooked. a video game released this millennium. he was enamoured with the fact that "every Even if he wasn't collecting all the bananas bonus points, he still enjoyed seeing how each The game combined his arcade sensibilities with long time - three-dimensional video games. He's the years, but he hasn't played any of them. opportunity for me to gain a unique perspective on and 3D platforming in general. It would be as What you're looking at right now is my I laid out the basic controls for him - move and perform context-sensitive actions with of the camera and realizing that Mario's he made a beeline for the castle. Watching him because you could see him swerving from left to how most people were when the game came out. They the character travels is relative to the camera. C-buttons in tandem with the dynamic camera angles controls were perplexing at first, but I believe For starters, his time in Bob-omb Battlefield I hadn't noticed. Earlier I brought up the with King Bob-omb and the platforms that Watching my Dad go through this level inspired platforms in Bob-omb Battlefield for the red coin, but he got the hang of it with time. By the conquered other early platforming challenges Watching my Dad conquer this game's controls my journey with this game began, and how it my own learning process that I hadn't thought Chain-Chomp jumped into frame, I was reminded When he had trouble crossing the bridge in Whomp's for me when I was a kid. I had yet to grasp how movements, so I remember falling a lot here ground pound and kick in mid-air, he immediately Seriously, he loved the mid-air kick almost as to make is that Super Mario 64 may have been alien was top of the line when it came to silently The IGN review published in September 1996 is "Mario himself has so many possible movements, that even the least experimental level without achieving anything in particular." This is why criticism of the controls always for several years. As Super Mario 64 was one not the first), it formed my expectations of not the other way around. This brings Even though it was the first of its kind, is relatively controversial nowadays, and even Generation, IGN and Electronic Gaming Monthly angles back in 1996. Even when players tried it would often get stuck on walls, behind at all because they hadn't programmed the camera 3D platformers did eventually develop smarter characters through obstacles, and this may have But it was always finicky. Even after my Dad had he had trouble manipulating it in tight spaces disoriented. Also, this happened in Peach's room Giles Goddard acknowledged this but he viewed it much more positively on it. Here's why the camera As my Dad was going through Bob-omb Battlefield of how intelligently the camera functioned. followed the path up to King Bob-omb, the camera be seen. It avoided most obstacles from its fixed back around to the main path after collecting hazards don't ever lead to instant death, it is and Mario's movement. When facing off against King how far apart both characters are on the mountain. without having to touch the camera at all. This Big Boo's Haunt, and just about any place where dynamic angle appears in Whomp's Fortress, when This is a great beginner's challenge when it comes already knew this. The camera is what I began to to acclimate to this challenge. It was never In truth, there are countless dynamic angles because they worked in the background to make Mario scales the vertical levels like Cool, Cool the pseudo-2D perspective in the Bowser levels their linear structure, all of the static angles to avoid frustration in an enclosed space, the Mario in Lethal Lava Land and Shifting Sand Land The camera is impressively intelligent for far more than it fails. Yes, the camera can pretty claustrophobic level, and it has virtually obnoxious to navigate if you aren't already Tick Tock Clock may have the camera pan fairly limited and frustrating in one of Overall, watching my Dad really put things in came out, it was a game designed for players to the game - experimenting with the controls to and camera was just what everyone did back then. level because there wasn't anything else like it. it's only natural that new players would have control, and are therefore completely thrown off like the wall-jump, triple jump and general tweaked in future 3D Mario games, with other 3D in a 3D space in their own ways. If you don't like get into the game, that's fine. I don't think I think the movement in Super Mario 64 is entry brought about by it being the first of its topic without any memory of what learning how and that's why watching my Dad learn how to expectations set by other games or the limitations world as children to just learn how to get good at for this. Collecting each star was an event, and This brings us to another issue that has arisen Super Mario Sunshine onwards, isolated objectives warrant the need to kick Mario out. Whether that the return of Petey Piranha, or something reinvented the reasons and the methods By the time we received Super Mario Galaxy, the but the levels took you through far more for any given Power Star, so kicking As the years went by, the need to kick Mario The levels are all built like sandboxes, and you You can grab Watch for Falling Rocks before the so choose, because the order in which they appear Of course, certain stars do require the level ship in Jolly Roger Bay after plundering it for a are loaded in at once, so I doubt memory was regular levels and 8 red coin stars in the Bowser another star if you so desire. Usually, I chain reds are worth 2 coins per piece, but sometimes For example, Cool, Cool Mountain and Tall, Tall coins I need for the star, so there's no need As you can see, this grants you a great deal of Mario 64 thrives on. As such, why not allow Obviously, hindsight is 20/20. Super Mario wherein specific Power Moons were touted as the new level elements. Other Power Moons could be back to the Odyssey. This would have been perfect in the ship, and from there it takes you back to from the water. After defeating King Whomp, you you can see that they've built an extension in his other stars could be racked up at your This would also make levels like Tall, Tall much more bearable because you can grab multiple Of course, there is a counter-argument to why the As I mentioned, 3D games were so new that and it was important to gather your bearings after begun playing 3D platformers, this issue wouldn't Some people also still prefer it this way, as Power Stars removes some of the memorization This brings me to my final point. When I was a I played this game for the first time when I was eight or nine. It played it a lot in between, but There were levels that were just too difficult my steps, and I learned new ways to improve challenge to conquer back then. Other games grasp on three-dimensional game design, and I got My critical thinking skills developed, as I grew up while playing Super Mario 64, and I finally broke the curse of the endless I can make this look easy now, but with limited it was brutal when I was a kid. Every single the game makes a reappearance, all thrown your ability to control Mario. I can't remember attempt this level all those years ago, but I and having to start all over again. When you who has barely been able to grasp the controls someone who replays the game often and has and someone who knows the game like the back of of Mario's controls, and how impressive it is that The final fight with Bowser is a bit trickier than were a great showcase for the analog stick itself, around and around. But whereas you only had to here you have to throw him into three, the the level falls apart after a while, and his But after landing all three throws, you can rest by you. After weeks, months or years, the kid that has finally conquered the game's Although many memories with this game have escaped feeling of happiness washing over me as I landed With that said... I didn't want the game to end and I always wondered what was on top of in the courtyard? Were there any secret Now that I was able to access the Internet, I the game, and learn more about it. Perhaps I could about the game's remaining mysteries. This notion of "venturing beyond the castle walls" sent me down a rabbit hole that I have yet to the heart of Super Mario 64, digging into what that people had created felt like an extension atmosphere, open-ended level design and gameplay create videos, tell stories and push the game Let's take a look at how the imagination inspired has contributed As YouTube began taking the world by storm, on the platform in many ways. Super Mario 64 of Mario 64 video. If you somehow missed out rundown of what these videos were like. In a the creator would record their gameplay window think of funny "lol random" sketches that edit them in Windows Movie Maker, and Although they were some of the first mainstream and a few of them would be pretty well edited and when I was younger. That said, they were some they immortalized Scatman John's music, making him If you really wanna go back, they were simply that had a similar structure, like Mario Crackups by Big Papa Kitsune. I can't believe I But Newgrounds flash animations are another can of Super Mario 64 Bloopers astounded me because Gameshark on a console. I didn't have access to at home, but around the same time I discovered empty, unused computer lab. This is where I and I even made my first ever ROM hack using I suppose I use the term "ROM hack" move and delete objects in an existing goofy stuff. Gameshark codes also provided Nowadays, it doesn't seem so amazing to add but back then it blew my mind to be To give you an impression of just how before Gameshark I used to tilt the cartridge after which Mario would suddenly become limbless I must've pissed myself laughing This cartridge tilting lived on both through after that in a subgenre of Mario 64 videos Throughout my years of messing with Super stuff showcased in that corruptions video. the ripple effect in the paintings violently may have laughed myself into a coma when I saw the I hope my Mom doesn't get retroactively but those computers were all rendered pretty were done with them. We pumped those Windows XP and then just left, and the worst part about I was just like: "Man, this computer is slower to another computer and ruin that one too! trying to mess around with a game I loved. Speaking of ROM hacks, Mario's movement was so people to leave it alone. They couldn't settle and future 3D Mario games weren't The ROM hacking scene has flourished People have developed fully-fledged sequels gameplay or otherwise try to improve joke hacks like Mario 64: Chaos Edition that missile - there is an entire website dedicated and I simply cannot go over all of the ROM hacks out there dedicated to expanding upon the Eventually, my Dad got a more powerful computer been sitting in our dining room for years. I actually decided to take advantage of its wanted to mess around in - Garry's Mod. I It's a mod of Half-Life 2 that allows you I doubt you haven't heard of it. People used to as soon as I could, I put Princess Peach's Castle The castle's size and the diversity of all of its multiplayer modes like deathmatch, hide and seek, this video, I actually found a challenge map Basically, you begin in the path to Dire, various Half-Life 2 enemies in order to That was as far as I got, but it was fascinating this area I'd become all too familiar with. Oddly in its original context, I also have a memory of it really did feel like a home away from home. made playable in Garry's Mod (as ridiculous your own copy of the game. Here he is, jumping thrown together. Have you ever wanted to play as ...This doesn't feel right. That's better. The fascination with Super Mario 64 and how it was videos break down (in excruciating detail) and in recent years the source code for the game of code was reverse-engineered so that people programmed Mario 64. Kaze Emanuar used this to so that it runs better on actual hardware, and decompilation is also how the PC port came about, From here, people have made countless like fixing the janky invisible walls, more closely with the tighter and more and even implementing full, analog camera Mario Odyssey-like system that allows you to keep People care about keeping this game There's even a randomizer for this game that can objects and more. It keeps the movement fresh, This endless fascination with Super Mario 64 makes strong replayability, addictive gameplay loop that it was the first of its kind meant that an be obsessed with it. I think we are naturally of nostalgic memories we hold dear, which is why internet. It gave us a way to reach out to other and connect over our shared fascination That said, in those early, wild west days of the especially if you were as young as I was. growing, and rumours began to spread both on People kept adding fuel to the fire, and it made When you collect all 120 stars, you can finally launch your way up to the roof. While being able little bonus in and of itself, I was surprised here for all this time. Yoshi is delighted last adventure together, and he relays a "very "Thanks for playing Super Mario 64! This is the We want you to keep on playing, so We hope that you like it! Enjoy!!!" You receive 100 lives, a dazzling yet slightly into the water below, never to be seen again. The is that part that says: "This is the end of the keep on playing." People definitely did keep on diving into and exhausting every possible playing for as long as this game has been in seems trivial in and of itself as the feeling of it was mind blowing at the time, and it was a design of Super Mario 64's most cryptic stars and those two sentences they wrote. With circumstances caps across the castle and its levels, and many We wanted to believe there was more Because I played Super Mario 64 so many times as In Whomp's Fortress, there are these Piranha coin. The music and all other sounds are seemingly I remember just watching this Piranha Plant letting Mario fall asleep as well. The imagery of nostalgic memory I have with this that made me want to delve deeper into the game. For example, the levels always felt so much bigger didn't have many 3D platforming levels to compare questions for the little areas and features of Cool Mountain? Who lived in the igloo in ship in Jolly Roger Bay? In Big Boo's Haunt, why I mean, you're jumping into the level in broad Therefore, are these trees or Why is there a sign in the upstairs area that I also wondered where the static, unique The walls of the final area of the castle are and I always felt like if you jumped into it, in Super Mario World. Or how about these balls They kinda reminded me of Navi from Ocarina of me to Hyrule. The imagination was flowing One of the most prominent mysteries I remember star. Certain Mario 64 bloopers and Gameshark had a star count higher than 120, and I always quest like The Legend of Zelda. Maybe you could Obviously, they were using Gameshark codes. They off the bat, and then they collected stars from But if it wasn't already clear, I desperately This brings us to the biggest mystery of them all, the one that ignited the imaginations Where the heck was Luigi? Super Mario 64 was one of the first main series He was simply nowhere to be found throughout the again, if Yoshi was in this game as a reward for somewhere, right? Perhaps his existence was tied Well, let's dive head first into Pretty much immediately after the game's release, In 1996, IGN actually posted a $100 bounty for Mario 64. This was before the earliest which was in 1998, and Gameshark There was no way players could fake it. No one was The biggest instigator of this whole phenomenon the plaque below the star is hard to make out. text as "Eternal Star," as that would make sense that the text said "L is real 2401." People have saying, and even Nintendo supposedly weighed in on text "wasn't supposed to say anything." Honestly, this plaque as anything BUT "L is real 2401." The The forum posts and supposed "cheat codes" have unlocked Luigi. Let's start simple This was actually a surprisingly prevalent It was relatively believable back then because of out and nothing would happen, these so-called They'd always suggest these insane setups for in real-time. Take a look at this one: Beat go to Bob-omb Battlefield and initiate the Koopa Chain Chomp and it will lead you to Luigi! Save in all caps: "THIS ONLY WORKS FOR THE JAPANESE quite a stretch, but this still isn't nearly as Stuff like holding up on the analog stick for in one sitting, and then resetting and copying total to combine with the star statue and open these hypothetical steps weren't far off The one I remember the most fondly was this which had several specific steps including running They even included images of Luigi supposedly This was, of course, a hoax. Luigi's model was posted on April Fool's Day that year, found the article as a kid...and tried it. Yes, fountain. Whenever I joke about the rumours I always cite that step in particular because The other part that people speculated about on the plaque. Certain steps that people would aforementioned coin collecting, leaving the exactly one coin - it's hard to find the sources likely long gone, but they were dime a dozen. I 2001 was actually the North American release date an insane coincidence. I mean, it was actually These rumours continued for a while, However, in 2004, Luigi would finally ...DS. He was playable alongside Mario, Yoshi this remake, because I believe it carries Super Mario 64 DS takes the castle of the and amplifies the mystery by including all It subverts expectations in the best ways, original game, there will always be something new will often be rewarded. You begin the game as but he can perform a flutter jump and stuff In the main lobby, you'll notice that the room and upon entering you'll notice four distinct corresponding key. Through the middle door, of minigames to unlock with the keys you can and an 8-star door that leads to a Luigi is unlockable through Big Boo's Haunt. mansion and you'll find a Luigi painting. From listening for Boo's laughter, you fight the boss Finally, L is real. Kind of. Personally, my was for Wario. Each of the three caps from the Power Flower that provides each character with of the Metal Cap, Luigi uses the Vanish Cap the Vanish Cap), and Mario uses the Wing Cap, Anyway, upon entering my beloved mirror room, the pillars. By collecting it with Luigi, and into the reflection of the door, which This room is already an extension of but it has more to it than that. The room has hinting at which character is required, while If you jump in, you can clear the level, fight favourite secret in this entire remake, despite Like Yoshi, each of the portly plumbers have their while Luigi can jump incredibly high and his and completely break certain platforming sections. preview build, and it was nice to see it make a can also find the caps of the characters across until you take damage, allowing you to collect There's a map of each level on the bottom new levels and secret stars to find across the 64 DS transforms the original game while The only drawback to 64 DS? The controls are you have eight directions and a run button. The with the D-pad actually exacerbates that one issue U-turns seem even more prevalent here. You can for a platformer sounds like a hell I do not digital controls do not allow for any of the when you consider that Super Mario 64 was built standard through its use of those controls), it's Thankfully, fans have implemented analog which makes this game far more enjoyable to play. Anyway, I went off on a long tangent about that wonder-filled legacy we've been he did eventually become playable in Super 121st star to collect if you collected 120 happened to be that second quest I had wondered These mysteries came full circle in a game that considering there's a lot we don't know about the I can't think of a better setting for them to have The thing is - Luigi was actually planned Luigi's existence was entirely debunked in 1996 that Luigi was removed from the game in February for Super Mario 64 to have simultaneous for the series as previous games had players take used during development? This was primarily and a remnant of this functionality exists to the fixed mode in the options menu. Sadly, they especially as the levels grew more complex He was almost implemented in a Mario Bros. would only be sold with one controller - the And that would have been the end of it...but In July of 2020, Nintendo suffered a massive and pieces of original source code - for several on Star Fox 1 and 2 - confirmed the veracity of was leaked for Star Fox 2 contained development Early builds and rough or otherwise unused content Game Boy Advance games, source code for the other miscellaneous things were found, including in any capacity called "Super Donkey." Based on eventually became Yoshi's Island. This entire leak wonder what else Nintendo has locked up in their we are endlessly hypnotized by how exactly our people endlessly enjoy digging into unused content This is why there remains such a fascination This leak provided us with great insight into beloved games, something that they seldom discuss Among the games that had content Super Mario 64. Scrapped levels (some of which as well as test levels, unused sprites, However, the biggest and most We'd known he existed at one point in development, existence in any supplementary material or didn't get any code or random strings of text No. Instead, we got his entire model. The model but it was soon reconstructed. We could L was finally real, after all this time. The best while this so-called "gigaleak" occurred in July 2401. A coincidence of cosmic proportions? Definitely. But perhaps that plaque was The gigaleak and the Super Mario 64 decompilation of each other, which would have made for a huge However, 2020 had one more Super Mario 64-related of a game we'd all played to death by now, that was home to some of the most engrossing As we grow older, it is possible We will always have it to some extent, but our experience with reality and living life, and However, a child's imagination They aren't restrained by the limitations of This was what drove a lot of us to obsess over Mario 64. Before I had an understanding of how way they were, I firmly believed a lot of the were possible. This is what I believe led to the copy of Super Mario 64 is personalized," and would create a version of the game very slightly "Have you ever played someone Have you ever felt like something was just It began as a joke referencing an wherein Wario's disembodied head floated A post goes on to detail the "Wario wishes to see him in Mario 64." While it the concept of things being created from these clicked with me and several others, and it led The reason I fell in love with this concept is like no other phenomenon has. The "personalization some kids on the playground claimed to have lying; maybe they really did in their game. these abstract urban legends - some looking development builds - usually with the uploader Mario 64 Bloopers and L is Real videos, these were really well made. I loved seeing this renewed and this exploration of the various rumours My absolute favourite video spawning from Cold Crevasse." It referenced a sign in Cool, "Warning! Cold, Cold Crevasse below!" There is cabin's exit, but this video makes it seem like for an entrance to this elusive sub-level, happened. Mario finds the secret entrance, and It's honestly a really authentic-looking video, creepy. At one point, Mario defeats a snowman personalization thing, but you can actually do Speaking of which, one of the most notable things channel called "Super Mario 64 Beta Archive." This the summer of 2020, and I was amazed. I won't explored it yourself. Essentially, they recreated as they possibly could, to the point where an being official. Not all of it, obviously, but some it's the composition of the videos that allows this anti-piracy screen that looks official, but any music playing makes me feel like it would have "scrapped system BIOS" video looks dangerously It makes reference to the personalization A.I. and editing of the video once again makes it seem while was this animation showcase. The low quality fact that it hangs on Mario's drowning animation The creepiness is subdued. Then, you read "Fun fact, all the animations for Mario were Unfortunately, this channel and although a spinoff channel was is right about where the meme kind of Then there's this infamous Super Mario 64 iceberg Apparition, Cold, Cold Crevasse and other little and non-fictional. But there's one element of The Wet-Dry World Negative Emotional Wet-Dry World is a weird level, and I always Depending on where you enter the painting from, This means you have to swim or jump around the on which star you want to grab, and it's kind of a while ago that is completely separate from the with nary a resident to be found. I'm also pretty of Time, which made it seem even weirder, as if game as a secret. The vertical structure unless you get good at raising the water as enemies wandering around. If you don't know what Finally, there's the skybox. What the hell is rest of the game's levels. Even Big Boo's Haunt feature a full city in its skybox. A real city, been traced back to a place in Yemen, which is game has been crafted by hand, why the hell have into this game? The only humans in this game are skybox seem to imply that Wet-Dry World was once As strange as it may seem, I actually love how abstract its setting is played a part in came to love how dynamic the platforming The compact size also definitely helps, some really cool movement puzzles that made me I think we are naturally drawn to the strange speedrunners can accidentally BLJ into Wet-Dry Well, yeah. It is. But this level - in all of its quirks - encompasses the aura I played Super Mario 64 a lot as a kid; so it. I had dreams about visiting areas of the obtaining stars that didn't exist. And of This entire meme felt like I was and it allowed me to step back into the Watching my wishes come true. Fostering an existing in an eerie liminality. It was more than Super Mario Odyssey would be the first 3D made Super Mario 64 so legendary. The other but they were incredible in their own ways. and creative that it allowed for experimentation Super Mario Odyssey interprets this creativity some of the coolest emergent gameplay that Mario and go about each level in any order you like can collect as many as you like, in any order for progressing the game, and further rewards give satisfaction to seeking everything out. have made this game as dynamic as the game that the essence of Super Mario 64. Its spirit, When I say that Super Mario 64 is more than its thought-provoking, mysterious nature spun off its fans. Speedrunning continues to breathe new Secrets, easter eggs, rumours and urban legends Its unprecedented status upon release drove Eventually, the things we wanted to believe were and one of the coolest artistic phenomena Super Mario 64 will always continue to inspire the Metal Cap for the first time, talk to and re-route the speedrun, and we relive our The credits theme of Super Mario 64 used castle for the first time, but now it feels subsequent playthrough and remember I can never It plays for speedrunners after completing their that has spawned from the game's existence think it unites everyone by reminding us of but based on the feats that speedrunners artists have created - I believe it can I've been Liam Triforce. Thanks for watching.