We bought these Shin Sonic dolls here, and we're going to cut them open at three o'clock tonight! Let's see what's inside them! We've got here Shin-Amy's doll, Shin-Tails' doll, the doll of Shin-Sonic and the doll of Shin-Shadow! But we also have the creepiest doll of all! This is the Shin-Sonic.exe doll! It's still in its box for safety, just like it was delivered to us, and we can only open it at ten thousand likes! Get me out of here. Oh no, we'll leave you in here until we've reached ten thousand likes We'll get ten thousand likes easily, friends. I'm shure he has cool things inside. Indeed, you are correct, Birdman. The question is, which doll should we dissect first? Everyone, please comment on which of the dolls we should examine first, but... Ugh, this one smells terrible! Why is there this strange odor coming from the Shin-Tails doll? We'll find out soon, but for now, let's see which Shin doll you chose. You have made your decision foooor... Shin-Tails?! Oh no, that disgusting smell is coming from him! Let's put on some protective gear before we cut him open. Here are some gloves and safety goggles. Who knows where this strange smell is coming from? Let's cut it open here at the top of the head. So, let's make a cut here. Here we go, like this. Yuck, that's disgusting! And what is that? Could the Shin-Tails doll actually have a brain? Huh, why would that be? Dolls usually don't have brains or organs. Anyway, let's try to find out. I take it out and ewww. Now there's a gigantic hole in his head, and this brain has eyes. If you press on it, the eyes just come right out. Hahaha This is incredibly intense; it's like a squished brain. However, that's not even the worst of it. I believe we need to reach deeper into this situation. Eww, there's still some slime in there, yuck, yuck. But down here, I see something large. Alright, I'm going to reach all the way in. It's really cold and... what on earth is that supposed to be? Friends, it says toxic waste on this. And there's a totally out-of-control Shin-Tail. Wow, it's really freezing. Let's unscrew this whole thing up here, like so. The lid is removed. And we push out what's inside from the top, and... it looks like slushy. It's frozen too. Maybe it is slushy. Let's give it a try. Yes, that's super delicious sluchy. Why does he seem so menacing? Doctor! Your face is blue now. My face has turned blue? Oh no, it must be from this slushy. Wait a moment, my face is normal again. This slushy just makes your face blue. You should try it later too, Birdman. Thats so funny. Let's go deeper into the Shin-Tails. But, wow! The Shin-Sonic doll just ran away. What? These dolls can walk? But he's back here. I think he wanted to escape through the front door. But it's three in the morning, and of course, it's locked. So, we'll stick this little Shin-Sonic doll to the table for safety, so it can't run away from us. We'll cut that doll open in a moment, but for now, let's take a closer look at the Shin-Tails doll. Oh, I feel something here. Let's pull it out. It's full of slime. But it says Sonic on it. This must have something to do with Sonic. And there's a switch up here. Let's turn it on. Oh, it's like a lamp. It's shining something on my hand. Let's turn off the light. Okay, and we'll try this whole thing again. Oh, it really projects some image onto the wall. And it looks like Sonic. And when we turn this up here, the images just change. Like here to Sonic and his friends. Now Amy and Tails are also here. We're currently checking them out. I can still make out something inside. Take a look up here. There's something red in there. Let's pull it out. And wow! Eww! Is that an eye? Yes, it certainly looks like one. A slimy eye. And it was just inside the Shin-Tails doll. Why is that? But it doesn't smell either. Whatever is causing the smell must still be somewhere inside the doll. Let's keep searching a little longer. Oh my, there's something squishy in there. Let's pull it out. And wow! Is that a chicken? And there's a stick on the back. Do we have to inflate this? Wow, yes! It can be inflated. Like a balloon. That's a really big chicken. How funny! Well, let's get rid of it. There's more inside. And wow, what is this? It looks like a container of some sort. It says 'radioactive' on it. And wow, there's some slime inside. The same slime we took out at the beginning. However, up here, there's something in this slime. It's disgusting. Let's pull it out. And what we have is a... Shin-Tails figure. Wow, that's incredibly wild! Inside the Shin-Tails doll was a small Shin-Tails figure. Woah, how cool. Wait, what's that below? It's totally brown. And ugh! That's the source of this terrible odor. Should we go ahead and cut it open here? I think we should do it right now. So, let's open it up. Just a little bit is exposed. But wow, this stinks way too much for me. I'm going to quickly put a clothespin on my nose. Now, let's check it out. And, uh, what is that? Something brown is coming out of it. And it has eyes. Ewww. Is that a poo sausage? Yes, it certainly looks like it, friends. But you can somehow... stretch it. Wow. That's way too funny. Now it's really long. Alright, let's put it aside here. Let's check what else is inside it. Next to all this cotton... Is there something blue in there? Wow, what is that? It says baby on it. This indicates that it is a baby spell potion. Drinking it will turn you into a baby. Gugu, gaga. Does it also work on Shin-Tales' kaka? Let's see if we can try it. We'll pour the baby drink all over its kaka. Everything on it. Now it should change, right? Wow! Yes! Look, friends! The kaka is now a baby. So funny! It has a pacifier, but it smells like the other. The thing is, I think the Shin-Tales doll is empty now, but no. Friends, I feel something in this leg. Let's cut it open again. But this time with scissors. I'm going to head inside and open the foot. Wow, the cotton is coming out really badly here. I think this should be sufficient. Let's clear it away and... in Shin-Tales' leg, it's just... a comical candy featuring his face. Let's go ahead and open this one up here. It resembles a lollipop, doesn't it? It's simply a lollipop. And if you press here... The liquid is just gushing out from the top here. Let's give the lollipop a taste with this liquid. And yikes! Ugh! Is that sour! We'd rather not eat that anymore, friends. Now the Shin Tales doll is really empty. It's crazy how many things were in there. And we can cut open the next Shin doll. Birdman, do we have enough likes for the Shinsonic.exe doll? I look for a moment, but sadly, not yet. We still need nine hundred ninety-nine likes. Wow! Only nine hundred ninety nine likes are missing? If you haven't given a thumbs up yet, do it now. So we can cut open the Shinsonic.exe doll right away. Now, let's check what's inside, but we need to move on with one of these dolls. We can choose either Shin Amy, Shin Sonic, or Shin Shadow. I can't make up my mind about which doll to pick. Let the monster choose. Oh yes, that's a clever idea, Birdman. Friends, if we press here... ...the machine will randomly select one of the three monsters. We'll take the monster it picks. Okay, let's do it this way. It has chosen...? Shin Amy! Now, we will continue with the Shin Amy doll. Let's go. I would say we should first make an incision here at the top of the head. I would not do that if I were you. Huh, why not Shin sonic.exe? Shin Amy has danger inside. Quit scaring us. We're going to check inside anyway. So, let's cut at the top. That should be large enough. Now let's see what's inside together and... What is that up there? It seems like a lot of slime is coming out. From her head, ew, ew. But there's something else in here. It's something solid. Let's take that out from up here and... This is a cup, and on the top, it says Shin amy's spider slime. What? Does that mean there's spider slime in this cup? Let's open it up right here. So, you can pull on this. Dispose of this packaging, and oh, that's gross! This slime inside looks like thousands of spider eggs glued together. It's bright pink, just like Shin-amy. I've never seen slime like this before. Incredible, friends! If you want to have this, go ahead and write Shin-amy in the comments right now. Honestly, I've noticed even more in Shin-amy. I still can't fully identify what it is. But take a look at this down here. That's what I meant. That is also somewhat pink. Wow. On this object, you can see Shin-amy's face. It says 'Shin-amy Grab Pop' written on it. And if you press this button, this claw arm moves forward. But there's something else inside. Let's open it here and see. Woah! There's just a lollipop back here. That's wild. Let's taste it. Wow, it's strawberry-flavored. This is so good, friends. I love it. But I see something else in here. Let's pull it out with this claw arm. This looks rather strange and wobbly. Let's take it out. What on earth is that supposed to be? Is that some kind of organ from the Shin amy doll? But really, it shouldn't have any organs at all. Regardless, this is all wobbly and disgusting. It doesn't matter. There's even more inside. Let's pull out some more of this fluff. This resembles a cheeseburger from McDonald's. Aren't they typically only in Happy Meals? Now there's one in the Shin amy doll. It must be really spoiled. Who knows how long it's been there? Anyway, let's check it out. It actually smells still good. It's just a golden ring burger. Woah, this is awsome! It's just like in the Sonic games, where they have to collect these golden rings. Let's give it a try. It tastes actually pretty good. This is way too crazy. But I'm still hungry. Is there maybe more McDonald's food in here? Let's look a bit deeper. There's definitely more slime in here. But I feel something else. It's so weird and wobbly. What is that? Have you ever seen this? This is a circle with three things inside: something pink with Shin-Amy, something green with Shin Scourge, and something blue with Shin Sonic. Let's try this first. Okay, friends, let's open this up here. We'll test it out. It's really a gross blue color. Something's buzzing in my mouth. My tongue has gone blue. Ah! And it was entirely long and straight. It resembled the tongue of Shin-Sonic. Would you like me to try the other two colors too? If so, please subscribe to this channel for free right now. To ensure you don't miss any more videos. Well, that's fine. Let's give this pink stuff up here a try. The one that has Shin Amy on it. It's actually even more sour than the other one. Ahhh. Ahhh. I transformed into Shin Amy because of this candy, or maybe into a girl or something. I don't know, friends. Now we try green. So, unscrew it here. And... It smells awful like a fart. Still, we will give it a shot. So, let's get the green stuff out. Yum, eeewww. It's really bitter. Oh no! What's rumbling in my stomach? Ahhhh, wuaaaah, woaah. Oh no, how embarrassing. I had to fart so badly from this one. ...oh... Thank goodness I've turned back into Doctor Light again. Now, let's check what else is in this Shin Amy doll. There's still a bag inside. It has pink balls. That looks strange. Let's go ahead and open this up, pouring it into our hands. We're going to give this a try now. Wow, this is gum, my friends. This is just way too... Wow, that's wild. Oh, something's ringing in Shin-Amy. Is there a phone in there? I think I can feel one, and yes. But it's not a real phone, just a fake one. In the chat history, there's a conversation between her and Shin-Sonic. He messaged her, 'I'm ending things, Amy.' She was in shock and responded, 'What? No, please don't! I love you so dearly!' That's so sad. Finally, they have broken up, and I can ask Shin Amy if she wants to be my girlfriend. Yes, you can do that, Birdman. And maybe we can even call her. That would be way too intense. There's a call button down here. Let's press it now. Let's go. But who are we calling? Something is definitely blinking up here now, and it's beeping too. So, friends, this phone really seems to work, even if it's just a toy phone. Hey, it's Shin Sonic! Wow, friends, Shin-Sonic is really here. But it's the genuine one, not just his doll. Let's pretend to be Shin-Amy. Hey, it's Shin-Amy. Oh no, you again. I told you I don't want to see you anymore. Never call me again. Oh, he hung up again. What did Shin-Amy do that made him so angry with her? Maybe we'll figure it out if we take out more things from her, and wow. Friends, this looks kind of like another brain. Let's get that out first, and that's... wow, some kind of skull. And back here, there's also some skull slime on it. Let's open it up like this and see what kind of slime it is. Wow, it's really sloshing around in there. I'm going to open this part up and wow. It's really slimy in here, yuck, ewww. Wow, it smells like something you could eat. Like apple. Let's get some of this slime out. And let's attempt to eat that. Oh yes, it genuinely tastes like apple. So yummy. I wonder why it's in the Shin-Amy doll. Woaaah! It sounded as if something had exploded inside. The smell is incredibly strong. Should we take a look at what it was? Oh! It seems like it was a stink bomb. In Shin Amy, a fart bomb has exploded. Wow. Yuck, it smells so bad. I told you that you should not cut her open! Yes, okay. You were right. The Shin-Amy doll is now empty. I can't feel anything inside. No. Are we moving on with you now? I don't think so. You are just one like short of being able to let me out of here. What?! We're only one like away? One of you hasn't liked yet. If it's you, quickly give a thumbs up now. Then we'll slice open the Shin-Sonic.exe doll. First, we'll look at either the Shin-Shadow or the Shin-Sonic doll. The Shin-Sonic doll is moving a lot. Before it breaks free, let's continue with it. And we'll cut the Shin-Sonic doll open at the belly. Let's cut in with the knife. And the doll is open. Wow, I can feel something. Yes, look, there's something hard. Let's remove this from the doll, and wow. What on earth is this? It has Shin-Sonic's thumb printed on it. It's like an enormous thumb. And you can twist the entire thing here. Let's open this one up. Whoa! There's even a thumb inside. I believe that's a lollipop. Yes! Delicious! But wait, there's more. You can unscrew something down below. And in here is some blue powder. Let's dip the lollipop into the powder. So, here we go. It's now full of powder, and we'll try this lollipop again. Ha, ugh. This tastes like sand, my friends. What we have down here is simply blue sand. You really shouldn't eat this. Let's dig deeper into the Shin-Sonic doll. So, all the way to the back. Wow, what is this? It's some kind of egg, and it has 'do not open' written on it. This is extremely crazy, and there's something rustling around inside. Friends, write Sonic in the comments if we should open this egg here. Although it does say 'do not open.' Well, let's set it aside for now. There's nothing left in the belly now. That's why we're going to cut it open here at the top. We'll do it with scissors like this. Just cut it open and take all this cotton out. Wow. Something's inside here, and it's another toxic waste. But it is Shin-Sonic flavoured. That means it's something to eat again. Let's open it. I open it back here. And whoa! Friends, there is a stick inside. I believe it's edible. Let's try it out together. Ha, no way, wow. This really tastes like Shin-Sonic and is super sour. Well, we've had a bit of Shin-Sonic now. But I think there's more in here. Okay, I'm going to fully engage with Shin-Sonic. There's a lot to unpack. But first, let's continue with this. This is, ew, some small figure with a hand. And I believe that's a sticky hand. That means if you throw it at the wall, it just sticks there. Right in your face, Birdman. Waaaah hahaha! Please stop right there, Doctor! Okay, okay, that's fine. Let's get the next thing out. Because there was something really intense in here. At least it felt intense. It's small, but sharp, and this is a Shin-Sonic USB stick. Let's take a look at what's on it. Come with me. So, here we are at my PC. Let's plug it in down here. So, it's in. Wow, there's something on the USB stick. A movie called Shin-Sonic vs. Gorefield. The thumbnail looks wild. Friends, if we should watch it, write 'film' in the comments. Then we'll watch the movie at the end of the video. But let's see what else is in here. Oh, something is moving. Waaaaah, Aaaah. Oh, look, there's a mouse! Aaaah! And now it has fallen off the table. So now we have a mouse in our home. Well, I guess it doesn't matter. I still sensed something inside here. Oh, it's so large. We need to make the hole a little bigger. So, let's go back here once. This way, we can actually remove it. It should fit this way. Let's get this weird cotton out. And there it is, what I meant. That's just a Shin-Sonic toilet. How crazy. Does that mean that when we open them, something like Skibbedi, Toilet, or Shin-Sonic will jump out? Let's open them very carefully. Very slowly. Waaaaah! Aaah! Oh no, there's just poop in here! It splashed us when we opened the toilet lid. Ewww, that's so disgusting! I really hope that was just water and nothing else. At this moment, the Shin-Sonic doll has run out. This indicates that we can now proceed with the next Shin doll. You forgot the egg. Oh, that's right. You're correct. This egg that we shouldn't open is still left. Let's open this up, breaking the seals. Okay, now let's take a look inside. Wow. Inside is just a Shin-Sonic fidget spinner. Let's spin it. That guy is super cool! I'm definitely going to use him more often from now on. But, you know, we have finally hit ten thousand likes for the Shin-Sonic.exe doll. Now we can proceed with him. Finally, you let me out of this stinky box. But then we'll cut you open. Wow, something just rustled here in the Shin-Shadow doll. And wow, it's completely full of all sorts of things. Let's first see what's inside. Get me out of here now. Chill, chill, we'll cut you after the Shin-Shadow doll. We're simply going to cut off an ear now to check what's inside. There's nothing in the ear, no. I believe that most of it is in their heads. Because there's a lot of room in there, you see. Just like in the other Shin dolls, there's a lot of cotton in here. I feel something really slimy. And wow, there's a snake in this Shin-Shadow. Perhaps it was indeed making those odd sounds. It could be a rattlesnake, you know. Sssssss. And it can be stretched really far apart. Strange that something like this is inside the Shin-Shadow doll. I think I have something here. Yes, there seems to be some weird slime in it. And here is this thing. It has Shin-Pop written on it. What could that possibly be? Let's remove the lid from the top. Whoa. It resembles a lollipop, indeed. But there seems to be some other piece attached to it. And when you pull it, this lollipop up top rotates. Wow, that's cool. If it continues to be this cool, the wildest stuff is in the Shin-Shadow doll. Oh, I'm touching something and it's glowing, friends. I'll take it out now. Wow. This is some sort of spider, but it's only made of plastic. And on top of it, there's an eye. It can light up; wow, that's really intense. I believe I just touched something edible here a moment ago, and it turns out to be a small package featuring Shin-Shadow. It says bursting candy on it. Wow. Let's cut it open up here and pour it into our hands. Let's get it out, and wow. Some kind of yellow powder. Let's try it. Wow. It really crackles a lot. Listen. And it tastes like cola. It's really tasty, okay. But there's also something hard in there, and it's another container. Here we have Shin-Shadows glow slime. And above it, there's an alien. What's that about? Let's take a look inside. First, let's get rid of the packaging. Now we have to remove the lid, and wow, there's so much slime in there. But I'm feeling something here. There's some kind of figure. Yes, and it's just an alien. Whoa. Why is there an alien in Shin-Shadows' glowing slime? Are all the Shin monsters aliens? That might be true. Anyway, I see something else in here. And that's a duck. It's as black as Shin-Shadow... Wow, it can quack too... I think there's nothing left in Shin-Shadow now. No. That means we can continue with the Shin-Sonic.exe doll. Let's bring the package forward. Here we go. Let's cut it open. Alright. Now we should be able to open it. Indeed. Here it is, the Shin-Sonic.exe doll! We can finally cut you out of this. Please don't do that. I only wanted to get out of the box. You can forget that. We begin here in the stomach, and off we go. The Shin-Sonic.exe doll is now open. Let's remove this cotton here. There we go. And down below, there's something as well. Wow. That resembles a gum container. Indeed. Here is Shin-Sonic.exe's sour gum written. Yes, there is genuinely a piece of gum in here. It's a gum roll, and it's supposed to be sour. Let's try it out. Haaa, Aaaah! This is more sour than anything we've consumed in the video up to this point. It's incredibly gross. However, now his stomach is empty, and we can see inside his head. So, let's cut it open here. And inside is Wow. What's that? Here's the face of Shin-Sonic.exe. And it looks like some sort of blaster. And when we push that button, wow! Whoa! A plane just takes off right here. It just flew by. That's a Shin-Sonic.exe blaster. But wow, there's still something in its head. It seems like that's still from McDonald's. Yes, those are fries. But they're blue. Wow, friends. Just blue fries. Let's try them. Whoa. They taste horribly bitter and disgusting. Luckily, there's still something for the fries in the Shin-Sonic.exe doll, namely a Sonic cream with chives. Let's open it up. The whole sauce is somehow completely blue. The Sonic Cream is here, okay. Let's try the fries with the Sonic Cream. Uh. Hmmm. Now they don't taste so bad anymore. I see something else in here. Yes. It's another one of those squishy things. And it says on the back, caution, extremely sour. Hey, not something sour again. Well, whatever. We'll just unscrew the part up here. Yes, it's some kind of jelly again. Yuck, yuck. Let's give it a try. Haaa. Aaaaaah! I need help! Aaaaaah! Wuaaaa! This is really, really sour! The thing is, I think his head is empty now. That's why we're going to take a look inside his mouth. Normally, his tongue should be in there. So, let's cut him open here. So, and wow, something is already sticking out. Something blue. Alright, let's give this a tug. Could that be ShinSonic.exe's tongue? Let's pull it out completely. Alright. Yes, that looks just like it. That's his tongue. Okay, let's open it up. Yeah, that works. And inside is more slimy blue stuff. Gross, gross. Let's give this a shot. Uh. Wow. This is, of course, sour again. Yet, there's still something in his mouth. Some feet are sticking out. This is a Sonic.exe figure. That's crazy, friends. Give me a big thumbs up if you liked the video. And subscribe to this channel for free. to not miss videos. Yes, exactly. Cutting Sonic dolls was too much. See you in the next video. Bye, friends.