My friend Mac is about to experience I'm just going to let you know - We'll see. Seal him up. You have to survive 10 minutes Release the spiders. Start the timer. The reason we're doing Mack said no matter how hard I tried, Would you say you're scared now? Getting there a little bit. - A little bit? And this is only one of many fears Oh, good. And if he can successfully face all I'm not going to lie, this was way more gnarly Three, two, one. Lift it up. Lift it up. Oh yeah. Congratulations on passing Let's go. But Mack has to finish if he wants to win Mack, I know you're blindfolded, Just walk up this ramp. Raise us up. Why are you taking a knee? What is...? Stand up. Stand up. No, no, no, no. All right, Jimmy. Okay, you can hold on to it. That's cute. Oh my God! Okay. Mack, take off your blindfold. Welcome to challenge number two. The next fear You're going to stand unclip this so you'll be Nah, dude. Press that button and without knowing how, No! No! You're shaking. Yeah, of course I'm shaking. I'm going to fall off of this - Yeah. Be very careful. Mack, I'm just going to tell you, even though you can't see Oh, my God, Mack. All you have to do is unclip it Oh my... I want you to look at me and tell me that I'm going to fall Something will break your fall. I promise. Oh my... You're literally attached to nothing. Oh, my God. - The clip is gone. You don't have to do it. If you want to, you can tap out and just admit you do get scared. No way. God, dude. I would have to say Oh, my God. Five, four, three, two... one. Godspeed. Godspeed. Zero. Let's go! I can't believe you did it. He's a psycho. And if you're wondering he's actually a contestant And sadly, But now he is on challenge to attempt to win that money back. Here we are. - Yeah. What'd you get? A $5 car and put As you can see, I'm guessing you're going to want me No. That would be dangerous. As you can see, Obviously, Yeah, I'm so stupid. Why would I think - Yeah. Yeah. Which is why we're going to drop him Bring in the crane! Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy. It is getting real now. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. All right, Mack, Once we drop you at this lake, And in the back seat is the 800 grand you've been competing However many bags you can save how much money you'll continue And whatever you leave Oh my gosh, dude. I will never tell you but I'm about as close I can tell. Before we drop your car, I'm If you quit right now I'll give you $100,000. And we call it even. Yeah. All right. He's not going to take it. - There's not a gosh darn chance. Hey, Nolan, take that. I lost it all last time. It's not happening again. Three! Two! One! Oh, my God. Drop him! Hey Mack! You've got about 20 seconds before it sinks under the water. Mack, the car is going under. Hurry up. Oh, God. That car is gone. That sunk so fast. Oh, my God. He's out. He's alive. Hey Mack! Nolan, go grab that bag from him. Somebody grab this. The scariest part about this the car sinks deeper into the water, and harder to see. So if Mack wants to keep He really needs to be moving But as you can see, Nolan, come here. Mack continued saving bag. Oh my God. After bag, after bag. Mack, you're crazy. But on top of the fact that the car What Mack hasn't realized yet are actually seatbelted Dude, Mack could be in an action movie, Well, he was like a borderline which is why I did this fear. Yeah, but it's like 40 feet down How can you hold your breath out? He got another bag. Well, you got $700,000 on the boat. Just stop now. Just leave it on the bottom of lake. - We can do the next. All right. At this point, the car was literally at the bottom making it almost impossible for Mack Yeah you know, It's black down there. Are you officially calling it? I can't see the car, Jimmy. The boat's tilting. You are very athletic. Do you like this video better Dude, this video is I know. And even though this looks very crazy, safety divers on standby Your prize is now 700 grand, but from here on out, it's Mack has to face to walk out of this - This one might be the hardest one. Is it grosser than spiders? Just come on in. Inside this room is a metal box. In order to progress, you'll need to reach inside the box And before we're going to need you It just basically says that you can't sue me Just sign right there. All right, we got it signed. What is it, There are things in this box. Just step up here. You put your hand Okay. And there's a thing in here Dude, that is freaky as... I'm just going to make sure it's moving. - Stop. Clearly it has not touched him yet. No matter what, once you grab onto it, What you grabbed is our brand new Feastable bars. We got all new branding - Let's try it together. I'm going to tell you Okay, that's pretty good. The new formula is milkier, creamier. We have our all new crunch flavor, almond flavor, my personal favorite, These new and improved Give us a couple of days of your local Walmart, And I cannot wait All right, Mack, Jimmy, and I've had a bunch of money Yeah. I'll tell you what. If you give me 500 grand right now, Do you guys hear this man? - Jimmy. - 400 grand? Hear me out. If you said 200, maybe 250, - How about 350? All right, let's go. Next challenge. I knew he'd break. All right, I might've lied. That one wasn't actually that hard. But this next one is actually based I've ever done. There's no way. How about quickly he pieced it together? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. - Come on. Is it that obvious what it is? What gave it away? Oh, Jesus. For the next challenge, we are going No way, dude. And you can get out but you don't know what time it is. And if you leave before the 24 hour That's a good fear. Yes. For once, I'm on the other side. Yeah bro! Oh, my gosh. It might get a little cold. Nolan, don't mess it up, please. I'll try not to. This is from my nightmares, man. It feels wrong being on What the... Oh, this is so freaky. The funny thing is that because you aren't fully buried. It feels wrong saying this, As you wish, Mack! Bring in the extra hand. Stop it, stop it, stop, Let's officially start the timer. Looks like 24 hours just started and I'm already freaked, so this ain't going to be good. Mack, see that rope above your head? - Is this a trick? Next time you pull that bell, And if it does not say above I will burn your house down. And also the $700,000. Yeah, I was like everything? Everything. All right, don't throw the walkie talkie. Was it that predictable? I already know they threw it, There's so much more fun And to make sure Mack doesn't die He's going to be wearing that directly tells us And no, it does not give him any way Basically, I need to figure out Here's my strategy. I could try to stay awake for 10 hours, and then I would be and I could just do that twice With Mack's plan now in place, his first step was to pass Well, it's no Feastable bar, but I guess that makes hunger stop. But it was pretty obvious Dude, you got to be honest, That's the whole point. And Mack being bored this early is a pretty telltale sign because already within 45 minutes, Mack's idea of time I think it's been about 2 hours. I'm going to try to get about 10 hours of sleep, which should Even though the pro to sleeping First night sleeping in the coffin. The con is it's very difficult of how long he's been buried, to stay asleep I have no idea what time it is right now. I'm a little creeped out. Hopefully for the love of God it's I think that's where we're at. And because when I did the challenge, I was Jimmy Jam. I thought I'd give Mack the same Wake up, Mack. Dude, you look like Kind of feels like If I was to legitimately guess I think it's like... The longer Mack stayed in the coffin, the less he seemed to know It might be hour 16. And because we like to build for the remainder of this fear, you're not going to know And even though Mack that he was going to be there it was clear that claustrophobia Being in this coffin is scary. Like... That... And the longer I'm in here, It's a crazy feeling. But eventually, when we saw we knew he was thinking about ringing That's the face of somebody There's no way it's been under 24 hours. God, I'm nervous. I've been in one of these videos And I lost everything. And the only reason and got a second chance Me screwing up that second chance if I know for a fact it's been 24 hours. I really hope I'm not making Mack. Buddy, pal, how you doing? Jimmy, I'm pretty nervous. I don't want to accidentally Jimmy, I don't know how you do this I do not feel well in here. Yeah. Have you got to the point to lose blood flow in your legs and you feel like your back Jimmy, I'm thinking No comment. Jimmy, I'll give you 50 bucks back No comment. All right, I got a comment for you. Just get a shovel ready, all right? Three. Oh, my gosh, Two... This is it. One. Stop the timer. And now that Mack has made his decision. There was just one Do you mind if I tell them about You have got to be kidding. Shopify is a platform get started down the path they want. Sometimes starting like getting covered in spiders I can tell you, But Shopify is here to help. If I hadn't started my own business, to go to all the crazy places and make videos And just like billions of other You can get started today Mack, you want to know I have a feeling you're not going You are correct. And one of the perks of owning I can do fun things like send Mack, Karl and Nolan and whoever's football I'm going to give you tickets and I'm going to bury the other one All that matters is that you and vote from one of them by buying And now that I can afford this - Hi! Hey, Jimmy. There you go! Welcome to the outside world. Now that you are out of the coffin, for 24 hours. If the number I reveal is lower I feel like I'm going to throw up. Three... Two... One... 36 hours! That is what I am talking about. He scares me. Congratulations, Mack. This means that you are now from winning all this money. Let's go. You should probably go shower first. Yeah, I smell not great. So far in this video, It is very difficult to scare him, but the final challenge of this video And that's because is a 1 to 1 recreation of the The last challenge. Hold this in front of your face. - Hey, I'm not looking. - I'm not looking. Don't open them. Don't open your eyes. Keep walking. Don't open them. Don't open them. All right, open them. No, no, no. Come over here. No! Jimmy, I do not want to do this again. Stand here where the cameras - No! The last challenge We recreated the set where And like last time, There are four stages. Each has its own cookie with a shape on it. You have to cut out all the shapes And if you do break a cookie, And for you specifically, it will have been the second time This is from my nightmares, man. I do not want to be here again. Well, good. You can quit right now and walk away with this 300 grand And if you finish this final This is actually like a Yeah, because that's not quite But if you lose again, that is $1.5 Are you sure? He's hitting it. Mac, I know this is hard, but you're going to have Do you want to go home with $300,000 or do you want to risk it all All right, fine. All right. To be honest, I'm glad. If you look at this iPad right here, this is exactly how long it took Mack last time he did the challenge, So that's exactly how long Starting now. Don't break the cookie while opening. There you go. Even though might not be in his best interest because if he accidentally snaps a cookie, 34 minutes. You did it that quick? Scan, scan, scan, scan. It's green. This is a much different deal So I'm going to take my sweet time Let's go. He is flying through this. Why is it so much harder to open? Probably because you're like You want me to try? Open it. Okay. Hold my iPad. Okay. It's very hard to open. What are you guys doing? I don't want to be responsible for that. Be careful. Theoretically, Mack's strategy makes sense. Getting through to save all the time for umbrella, You literally still have 32 minutes left. Yeah. Well, I'm going to need That is borderline impossible. - Move out. Open it. Allow me. Clap, clap, clap, clap, clap. Mack, stop breaking my set. Bro, you guys got to make There's just no need to rush. I mean, you might need to go slower This one is pretty hard, Trying to get to the race God, this is so hard. Oh my gosh. Well, I don't need that anymore. Maybe it didn't break all the way through? Okay. He still had 29 minutes left. He did the first two in 4 minutes I don't know why I did this. Oh, my God. I did that twice? Here. Give me your hand. No. Jimmy, please. No, Jimmy. Nah, dude. I don't even know Right here. I have, like, so much time. Yeah. I'm still just not sure The umbrella, I just know Yeah. Okay. Mack told me in this video that I could do to scare him. And after putting him through and more, Godspeed. The only thing that ended up was the fear of his own failure. Godspeed.