In Russian, Kremlin means fortress. On the Moscow River banks, Kremlin on Russia for about 700 years. Currently, this square fort built is home to the heart of Russian power. A citadel, symbol of national authority, and a thousand armed soldiers. Kremlin, a place among the most Behind these walls, where flamboyant churches are followed Among them, the most secret: The official residence of the in which it is so rare to visit. A haven full of history, where paneling adorn living rooms of unique 700 rooms, preserved over the centuries And a jewel: the apartments of A legendary setting closed to the public, where a Frenchman has the He is called Jerome Rigaud. At 36, he runs the Kremlin kitchens. A work environment that impresses him This is the view I have now and then with winter when It's a privilege to work there. When you think about it, At the very beginning, I was watching It's a great opportunity to see that. By becoming a chef of Jerome also had the a member of one of the most The Chefs Club of Chefs. The Frenchman is now among the 40 the most powerful on the planet, Each year, these diplomatic become ambassadors of gastronomy In a few days it will be To receive his colleagues behind You have to cover the bread Go ask for paper napkins Before receiving the Chefs Club of Jerome Rigaud organizes tonight a dinner In few hours, the Russian president Belorussian, Alexander Lukashenko, This masterpiece from the 15th century A stately setting where each fresco Here, Tsar Ivan the Terrible organized A historic place where the French chef We had the opportunity to cook a meal for they all came to shake our hands. To have It's something special. We don't forget, It's very hard, but when you see Not everyone goes in there. It only happens once in a lifetime. An even greater honor, that Kremlin did not have a French chef, since the last Tsar Nicholas II. A change decided by the President When he came to power on 7th May 2008, the imperial tradition, combine high An alchemy that Dimitri Medvedev to numerous hosts, as to his Chinese For this meeting at the summit, were honored to be received at the Accompanied by choirs of the Red Army. An exceptional and sumptuous where the art of receiving In the Russian House, regardless of the dishes must be delicate. A challenge that the French Chef has Jerome Rigaud's kitchens are located in this modern building built The building is ultra-secure. On each floor, the Kremlin guards In an exceptional universe, for this young Chef from Perpignan. 2000 square meters of kitchen Banquet days like today, bakers, confectioners and cooks To run his brigade of 30 people, Jerome I want 130 dishes of meat All the rest spread on two bases. Because in 30 min, we start. On presidential reception, the pressure In five hours, the dinner in honor of the A banquet for 100 people for whom This menu required When we receive a foreign president, What he likes, what he doesn't like, If he follows a diet or not... Behind I prepare my menu, I give it to shows it to the President and the last to On the menu, the president chose tonight: grilled prawns in their a squid risotto with ink cuttlefish, All preceded by a Including the famous Bortsch, A mixture of onions, carrots, and potatoes, that the Frenchman There it is, to my liking, Flawless. The President, Mr Medvedev is a foodie, he asks a lot of questions about He won't object even if it is a product He is curious though and will taste For us, it's interesting, gourmet and bring menus the President about what he eats. It's not just about In three years, Jerome succeeded the The Russian President at fine gastronomy In memory of Youri, chef at Kremlin for The Soviet Union, it was really special. We were doing only Russian cuisine. We made whole sturgeons, they were we cooked bears, deers, whole wild boars. It was different, very solemn. When he started here, Now we're on European cuisine, Are you happy to have a Yes, it's very interesting. These images from 1957 testify the given to the Kremlin under At the time, ration tickets were But at the Grand Palais, wants to impress his 1000 guests by the he makes them serve. three to four kilos of food And no matter the quality, Today, to remain regal, like that of tonight in honor Belarus, However, in the kitchen, some draconian are still felt. At each banquet, the French Chef must poisoning of the President. A fairly common practice here So, to avoid it, in the kitchens, A doctor, member of the guard closer What is this? Like the tasters of kings from France, Not a dish from tonight's dinner will Okay. I can take this cup of red cabbage? In addition to poison, she checks the that could affect the health of Okay, that's fine! A visit, rather deterrent... You know, for us, all the guests are But of course we care especially We have just one. In case of poisoning or intoxication, and Jerome Rigaud could be More pressure that the boss We work for Presidents, We can't afford a President gets ill Everything is controlled. all countries are like that. It's so, so that everything be done let there be no issue in terms of food, We add nothing at the very last, In the Kremlin, the other psychosis are ten, 11, 12... The Quantity of food served must match exactly what was delivered. Everything is weighed. Absolutely all. It is a permanent check which is Like this, there is no theft. As much on the quantities we serve, if we and if we serve more, where we get the goods from? It's the Russian system. In case of food theft, the French chef and would risk being fired. On the shoulders of Jerome Rigaud, Despite all, he was able to get into the play with traditions and use the in the arcane of the presidential palace. After you. How many plates are there in all here? For example on this shelf, Here we have 12 batteries Of So 500 to the ladle, there too. With the other cabinets, You shouldn't ask me things like this, I think we should have about All inclusive, with different models, Tens of thousands of plates On these dishes, no gilding or fantasy, Nothing evokes the imperial pomp of The dishes are wanted simple and austere, in the image of Soviet rigor that ruled On every official trip of protocol requires that the French Chef, Takes along this impressive collection. When we're on the move, at three, five or seven hours of flight, Knowing that a box is and that we have about five to So, if ever we're leaving you count six drinks per person, that's Plus the ones in reserve because You pretty much count 4000 glasses That is to say 4.000 boxes That's just for the glasses. cutlery, cooking, products, oven etc. It's a totality, a globality. Today, no big trip, will be seated at the Grand Palais, In the reception room, Chef Rigaud comes to check in the middle of the buffet. Don't turn on all the burners just Cooking and protection of food are Whatever the time at which the dishes must have kept their freshness As I said to Pacha, because if the guests are two hours late, else it will be too condensed, too salty. But Jerome's biggest concern is in The prestigious Red Room. Dimitri Medvedev, his Belorussian and their ministers will have dinner The French Chef ensures that the table Four crystal glasses including one for Jerome also takes the opportunity to It's all settled. Everyone will know his There is just one place without name. That is where the President is going to His name is never placed on the table. There is the Russian President, the first It's an honor. At backstage, Dmitri Medvedev's valets Alexander Lukashenko just walked The diplomatic meeting begins officially The time of a head to head protocol. Marguerite, are you preparing potatoes! In the kitchen, it's the beginning for Each of the 30 cooks knows his role A broom, where the least incident the smooth running of the banquet. If an oven no longer works, I am in charge of the banquet, it would be that I didn't test it before, I am dead. I take my suitcase Although he cooks more than 100.000 the pressure is always as strong. In one hour, the chef and his team Serve at temperature and at same time the In just 40 minutes, the official We know we have 40 minutes to serve. We're not going to overtake. I see the Head of Protocol, to serve this entire menu on time. We remove a dish but we have to It's not even a question to be tabled. 40 minutes to serve 500 plates. An even shorter time frame will take place at the other end Three plates of salted vegetables, The chef's solution, prepare and cook the A piece of work on the chain and no less than 30 people The ingredients are delivered located near the banquet hall, where they will be warmed and After the guests, of the table of the President. Security requires that the boss is the by Dimitri Medvedev and those who will Under the control of a doctor -Jerome, we're going to pack -No. I have other products - Really? -Yes, but I won't leave them on -I'm still missing things. and just below, one with fish. Now we close. They are the products we're so that there is no mixture They have been tasted by doctors. There mustn't be errors in between both. A whole cart under cellophane. Another strict and deterrent measure to Come on, let's go Volodia! The ingredients and the presidential now leave via the underground where the chef will cook under the watch of I go through places that are not It's part of the Kremlin, But we have passages to access The Chef will not be allowed to reveal This evening, the banquet in honor to will remain confidential. It's 10:00 pm, and Jerome Rigaud received It's the end of a marathon day, 17 hours This frantic pace was almost fatal to At 55, the second chef, and collapsed at the foot of his stoves. One morning, upon arrival, sweats and then he had a heart attack. Whatever happens, we feel at fault, Do we have him work that much? It doesn't just happen like that. I know But I think it's a whole, It's hard, but hey, we get used to it, It's like a top athlete. There are trainings to respect, We know that there is a graph to respect. Now, it's true that when I get home... If we talk about private life... Sometimes I check my schedule I know that in four or five hours, It's silly to say, but I'm going to because it's going to waste more time. I should get some sleep so that So yeah, we'll eat tomorrow. -Have a nice evening. See you tomorrow. -See you tomorrow. Since arriving at the Kremlin three years Tonight still, he will be the last In Moscow, Jerome Rigaud lives in in the heart of the Russian capital. I have two cats, Lily and Messy. My cooks know that I love animals. Last year they gave me a first cat the second gift, the younger brother. There is someone who is waiting for us A presence that fills a big void. Jerome is more often in the Kremlin My fridge is empty, On the other hand, the funny thing is, which is not plugged in and It's all inside, it's been a year that Before managing this young chef has had a unique career Passionate about rugby as a teenager, But at the age of 19, all his hopes are Without a diploma, he then tries Very quickly, he integrates the kitchens like Pierre Troisgros and Joel Robuchon. In 2004, Jerome accepted a position of He leaves his family and region for I said at that moment to my mother: don't think I'm going to come back I took the option to leave. I'm leaving and I think I will make Now I am not ready, I think, France is my country, I know that As an expatriate, Jerome Rigaud becoming a Slavic gastronomy ambassador. However, in a few days, the French chef to about 20 of the 40 chefs of chefs, the cooks of the great leaders A challenge for Jerome who has entirely I'm going to try to make Three days in Saint Petersburg We're going to spare them as they are all of presidents' chefs. They all work in luxury, Russian system, culture and all that. To offer to them what is being done Jerome is going to visit the suppliers, who regularly supply Kremlin banquets. Today he is traveling 2.000 km in one of the most beautiful regions He has an appointment with a winemaker, who makes the favorite drink Abraou-Diourso, near the Black Sea, a village in the heart of This peaceful spot on the edge of Lake From the hills to the lush vineyards An extremely fertile land, Grand Crus from Champanskoie are born. a sparkling white wine Andrei Koboyan, is the guardian -Hello, how are you Jerome? For the Kremlin, the Frenchman is the quality of the products Twice a year, he comes here to watch the most prestigious of the domain. It's interesting for me to come the products we are going to put It's interesting to see people, to understand their work and then, once we touch it. A product made in respect to traditions. Here, every autumn, 200 pickers on more than 500 hectares. A delicate work to preserve these What is the secret of these vines? The secret is the rocks. and contains clay. Their specificity is that To give it back to the grapes at night -There's the secret. Stones that protect the vines from huge This very popular nectar is assembled in the estate factory Bottle wrapping, destined for Is entirely handmade. A goldsmith's work to be -Come on, we're going to have a taste. Jerome came to taste Tests that the French chef is going The cellars of the domain, a gigantic labyrinth where Tunnels built in the 19th century based Five km labyrinth where the bottles You know, these tunnels, You, you work in your universe. Well here it's a bit like To obtain the name Cuvee Imperiale, Sparkling wines have to age for a -What year is it from? It is an blend of Pinot Noir It is only three years old, It's true that now, semi finished, -Jerome, before you leave, I would A very private reserve. The other treasure of the is in these niches. Each of them contains reserved by the most great -Here is Putin's cellar. Among the illustrious customers In 2004, at the start of his Putin came with friends to inaugurate Since then, it has been preserved You see, on this bottle, "Putin's stock" This bottle is priceless. In the world, there aren't two alike, A cellar so precious that a guard -Thanks! -Goodbye! Jerome Rigaud is the best domain client. Each year, he orders some 10.000 bottles for presidential receptions. Back in Moscow... For the visit to Russia of his The Frenchman chose to present he sometimes cooks in the Kremlin. The chef stops at the Maree. The most famous fish wholesaler -Hello sir. Are you alright? -I am good. Jerome meets Wade Bari, a Tunisian, We just received the products. Here is the long awaited arrival, in these boxes, the famous Sakhalin crab. A more than one meter behemoth, with exceptional flesh, It comes from an island located off the coast of Siberia, It's a product that covered There you go, please. -How comes that it arrives alive? -It's the packaging that makes because it's packed in boxes as it needs humidity. I often order for pliers. At the level of the flesh, There is practically no loss We manage to have nice pieces. Really, this, I use them a lot. Sakhalin crab, very popular Still has a little effect -Gently! This giant of the seas can be cashed at Some can reach EUR1.500. It's worth that price. If you have It has nothing to do with It's a royal taste with a royal award. In the Kremlin, crabs will be served in If Russian leaders love it, it's because especially that of its Breton cousin, The long-awaited day by Jerome His colleagues at the very have just arrived for a six-day From the start, the young Frenchman So he chose to start the journey by the This encounter marked with starts at the Grand Hotel de l'Europe, through a very official photo session. You're going to get makeup. Go on To immortalize this meeting, a little beauty treatment is needed, By order of appearance, Mark Flanagan, Head Chef by Her Christian Garcia, head of the kitchens Bernard Vaussion, in the kitchen Finally, Cristeta Comerford, and Chef of the White house. You know, we're usually in the shadows Today it is pleasant to turn the tables. It is also great to represent our country. It's really a great honor, and I think that all the chefs Each of these great chefs has done to the other members of the club. A year ago, the 40 cooks Every year, we go to a country and I have to do it very well here as well. You must not miss it, we don't have the right to make mistakes, It's self-love that's at stake. All week long, the Frenchman A huge challenge when you know that that the Head of State receives the cooks during their stay. The aim would be to meet the chairman, It would really be the icing on the cake I think he's going to do it, but nothing Jerome made a request and is still waiting for his response. -Bernard, let's go on the bus! -Alright! It's okay, we haven't fallen behind. The program is loaded. a stay rich in history and heritage. At St. Petersburg, he offers to chefs A trip on the canals of the Neva; What were worth to the the title of Venice of the North. Come on, a kiss! For your children. A stopover is planned at the a majestic building, today one of the where chefs will admire the rich It is magnificent. I don't know where to look first. It's incredible, really incredible. I have never seen so much gold It's a chance to see it An original painting by Leonard Da Vinci. Works and sets that become a like this gigantic throne room. All this know-how is fascinating. By chance, we may soon receive a and everything I've just seen will help I am in paradise! From history...and gastronomy. On the program every evening, with champagne, chamber orchestra The service is exemplary, where we get our respective patterns, So it's still not bad, Chefs treated like kings. Jerome Rigaud's bet is about This enchanted interlude will The Frenchman, who predicted a discovery behind the scenes in He still hopes that the chefs will be but the protocol did not However, some have brought gifts Is this the gift you want to I have to first give it to the protocol. They're going to check, then they'll The chef takes the club The Kremlin part prohibited to the public. For his colleagues, he aimed to Usually, these corridors are solely A huge privilege for chefs of chefs -Didn't you make this visit? -That's where I do all meals. You're going to see all the rooms, The cooks of the greats the pomp of the ceremonial halls, where Jerome Rigaud organizes -You'll see, it's another world. First surprise, the huge capable of accommodating On the ceiling, impressive chandeliers A magical room that amazes the yet customed to luxurious palaces. It's superb, it's just the first piece In size and all these sumptuous Compared to us, with us, it's very small. The Elysee is still human-sized, Here, we can already see that During the visit, the chefs take To each of the banquets that Like the head of the Elysee, It's impressive what I see there. The banquet room where they do We, our throne room seats So it's quite impressive. The throne room in the Kremlin, The most sumptuous from the palace, The emblem of Great Russia's power, where Stalin had chosen to organize A magical place where you can still and its canopy dressed in ermine. One gets the impression that the ladies are going to come out in a moment, It would blend really in the decor. We are a little out of the mark. I can't believe we had the honor of It's a real chance to be able Jerome made us an incredible surprise. Chefs are won over by the It's just left the Russian president, to make an appearance In the anteroom of power, security services are being deployed. A sign that does not deceive The president has just arrived. We're going to see the President, Jerome won. He asks the cooks to cross of the Grand Palais in the Once is not usual, like Heads of State, A perspective that seems The President of the Russian Federation, Hello everyone, dear friends, Your mission is of the utmost importance, because you receive the chefs of state Your work is essential. Thanks to your talent, an auspicious atmosphere So, once again, welcome and A tribute that goes straight Greeting them one by one. Dmitry and to respond to the invitation A proud moment that erases My dream was to open a brewery, and lo and behold, five years later Life is made like that. In addition to being able to it's a very big pleasure for me. Since the filming of this documentary, Jerome Rigaud went to other horizons. But the duration of a presidential the Kremlin to reconnect with once so dear to Russia of the tsars.