A man came up to us and said, &quot;There's a factory &quot;and you will find &quot;that were dropped there, &quot;and the SS is guarding them.&quot; We opened this shed, we went in there... (STIFLES SOB) Though fighting still raged World War II in Europe officially ended with Germany's unconditional surrender (EXPLOSION) Allied armed forces advanced across Europe relentlessly pursuing As they did, they stumbled onto camps, that had been established and run by the Nazis The Soviet army, advancing from the east, liberated Nazi camps in Poland The British and Canadians, liberated Bergen Belsen The Americans, our focus here, liberated Dachau, Buchenwald, As their armies advanced across Europe, the Allies found thousands of people imprisoned in camps. They encountered piles of corpses, and thousands of skeletal prisoners from malnutrition and disease. This was their first encounter of what would come to be known They began to understand that the Nazis had committed the vast majority of them Jews, and that these atrocities caused by conventional warfare. A new category of crime had to be recognized to describe the intentional attempt This crime came to be known as &quot;genocide.&quot; The soldiers were the very first outside an unprecedented case of genocide. The testimonies of the first soldiers known as the &quot;liberators&quot;, are important eyewitness accounts of the mass atrocities committed against the Jews of Europe by the Nazis and their collaborators. Hardened combat veterans, many had been fighting for years. But they had never seen on the massive scale they discovered. Their first encounters at this unique moment in time give us an essential on the difference Leon Bass was 20 years old, and was among the first US soldiers I can never forget that day, because when I walked through that gate I saw in front of me what I call the walking dead. I saw human beings, human beings that had been beaten, they'd been starved, they'd been tortured, they'd been denied everything. They had skeletal faces with deep-set eyes. Their heads had been clean shaven. They were standing there just to keep from falling. I saw the clothing of little children - the little children that didn't survive. Up against the wall, I saw the caps, sweaters, but I never saw a child. Harry Mogan was a Jewish refugee He reached the United States And...and you saw women on... on the floor, on... on wooden pallets. When I say women - you saw skeletons. Rags hanging on them, no shoes. Bones instead of faces. It's hard to describe. What the American soldiers found at Ohrdruf, was so grisly then the Supreme Commander together with Generals Patton and Bradley, arrived to inspect the camp for themselves. After his visit, Eisenhower cabled: &quot;The things &quot;The visual evidence &quot;cruelty and bestiality &quot;as to leave me a bit sick. [...] &quot;I made the visit deliberately, &quot;in order to be in a position &quot;to give first-hand evidence of these things &quot;if ever, in the future, &quot;there develops a tendency &quot;to charge these allegations These words are now engraved on the wall of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. Eisenhower's eyewitness testimony reveals that what he saw at Ohrdruf Eisenhower foresaw that could fuel the denial of atrocities committed by the Nazis He emphasized that he purposely so that no one would later be able to deny what he saw with his own eyes. Eisenhower was convinced He made sure that members of Congress were brought to see the camp. He had all nearby soldiers whose units writing: &quot;We are told the American soldier &quot;Now at least, he will know US Army Staff Sergeant Horace Evers to enter Adolf Hitler's He discovered Hitler's personal stationery. He crossed out &quot;Adolf Hitler&quot;, inserted his own name, about the camp he had seen &quot;Dearest Mom and Lou, [...] &quot;A railroad runs alongside the camp &quot;and as we walked &quot;I thought of some of the stories &quot;and was glad of the chance to see &quot;that what I had heard &quot;- But no it wasn't propaganda at all - &quot;if anything - some &quot;In two years of combat you can imagine &quot;furious deaths mostly. &quot;But nothing has ever stirred me &quot;The first boxcar I came to had &quot;Bodies on top of each other - &quot;And then into the camp itself. &quot;How can people do things like that? &quot;I never believed they could... &quot;until now.&quot; As American troops approached Dachau, they saw ghastly evidence Anger led some to shoot SS guards But Dachau not only fueled their rage, it also aroused their compassion. Paul Parks was a 22 year-old American who witnessed Dachau after liberation. These people came out of these barracks-like buildings with their striped uniforms on and... just in devastating shape. One of the fellas came out And he said, &quot;Are you Americans?&quot; and I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; He said, &quot;Thank God!&quot; Who were the people They were the victims The Jews among them had managed whose goal was total annihilation. Other prisoners, including Roma, homosexuals and communists, had managed to survive persecution For many, liberation came too late. Hundreds continued to die every day But for others, They represented the moment of salvation that many survivors had despaired Helen Greenbaum survived imprisonment in the Warsaw ghetto, forced labor at a number of camps and a death march to Dachau They opened all the gates and we started, some on all four, because they let us know that the soldiers are coming. And we went out to greet and we dropped to their feet They, some of them that couldn't walk, they [the soldiers] picked up Some of the soldiers broke down Many made the conscious decision to put their military objectives in order to care for the broken In most cases, the liberators treated them After the Germans had mercilessly the liberators were the first Anton Mason was about 18 when he was liberated by American soldiers at Buchenwald. He had survived Auschwitz, where most of his family was murdered. I found out my father was dead and I was truly at the end of my rope. I said, &quot;I don't know if I can go on.&quot; But there is something I just decided that... I'm not gonna give up - And then, out of no place (LAUGHS) on April 11th the Americans arrived. I couldn't believe it! I couldn't believe it! I walked over to a G.I. and... young guy, and I asked him if he could give me So he took out, he gave me a Nestle bar and he gave me a gold... it said Nescafe, I didn't know what it was. So he gave me a little food. He could have gotten anything for it in Weimar! But he gave it to me. Solly Ganor lay half-dead in the snow He remembers the unshaven, who knelt down, gently touched him &quot;You're free boy. Solly was surprised by the soldier's His liberator, Clarence Matsumura, was a member of a segregated American children of Japanese immigrants. Clarence smiled at Solly - a smile that's stayed with him ever since. Solly has called Clarence his angel. Ironically, African-American G.I.s and Japanese-Americans served in segregated units in the US army. They fought for freedom and democracy despite facing discrimination at home Nisei soldiers celebrated even though racial tension had caused many of their own families For countless survivors of the Holocaust was the moment they began to feel safe after years of fear, loss, and rupture. But for many, liberation was the saddest It was the moment they realized For many liberators, was a powerful moment of insight. Trained to wage war, many chose for the humanitarian mission of giving care The experiences of the survivors moved many to become I've been trying to give testimony by just going around and speaking to people. And I think it's important that I speak about what I saw and that others speak about what they saw. Are we looking for credit? No. No one's looking for credit. No one wants a pat on the back. All we want to do is say - will this be prevented from happening again? That's the most basic thing.