Once upon a time, in the tropics, there was during the rainy season. So, every year, he would build a dam trying home and property. Every year he'd put great effort into building be better protected against the flooding river. However, one year the floodwaters were too damage than if he had never built the dam Looking at his devastated home and property, nature made him more vulnerable to its unpredictable The man in the story believed that by building and protect his home and property from the However, his attempt to control nature actually overly reliant on the dam and neglected other like creating a drainage system or placing Also, he wasn't prepared for the disaster In this way, his desire for control made him forces of nature. Here we see how futile trying to control the We never know what's coming. No matter how well we think we've buttressed always catch us in unexpected ways. Moreover, by trying to control too much, we whims of Fortune. The 'paradox of control' attempts to show the less in control we are as we try to control And so, as a consequence of our attempts to turn out for the worse. As illogical and vague as this all sounds, limitations of human control and reminds us control the universe are futile and may even This video essay explores the paradox of control. In a display of arrogance and delusion, the halt and not wet his feet and robes. But as one might expect, the tide continued futile attempts to control it. King Canute was forced to confront the reality his control and that even the most powerful For a significant part, the power we attribute Many people tend to exaggerate the control We might believe we control people. But we'll sooner or later be confronted ultimately does their own thing, regardless directions. Likewise, we might think that we control our But our life experiences show us that our much of a say: we get older, become sick, these factors through our lifestyle, we don't No amount of plastic surgery, healthy food, and decaying. The story of King Canute serves as a cautionary and the need for humility and respect for It's a reminder of the limitations of human When talking about the limitations of control, statements about it, done by Epictetus, as "Some things are within our power, while Within our power are opinion, motivation, is of our own doing; not within our power and, in a word, whatever is not of our own End quote. Even though Epictetus' view is bold, and black-and-white thinking, it forms the cornerstone The Stoics, like Epictetus, maintained a clear control. By focusing on the aspects of life that are actions--we can develop inner resilience, fate and the uncontrollable forces of nature. If Epictetus had witnessed King Canute's force like the sea, he'd probably have called Suppose the king would also try to control of his body. He'd find out that the wind is completely and his body lives a life of its own. So, the more he tries to control the universe, control he actually has. What a humbling experience that would be. The story of King Canute and the teachings acknowledging the limits of our control. By focusing on what we can control and accepting aspects of life, we can develop a more balanced, Many centuries ago, there was a Taoist farmer visited to console him. But with Taoist wisdom in mind, the farmer good or bad?" The next day, the horse returned, taking a the farmer, who responded with the same words: Later, the farmer's son tried to ride the the neighbors came to console him. Again, the farmer responded: "Who knows Then, the army came to the village to conscript farmer's son because of his broken leg. Happy and relieved, the neighbors congratulated But his response remained the same, "Who The story illustrates the paradox of control our lives, thinking we know what is good or Our attempts to control the course of events as negative or positive may turn out to be The story encourages us to adopt a more humble of life and the interdependence of events. It also shows us that the importance we attach control is oftentimes baseless. Another example. Suppose someone is extremely fearful of losing But, after years of stressing out about it, After the initial grief and despair, she decides pursue what she always wanted: her own coffee To her surprise, and with some help from fate, Now she not only realized that being sagged those years of worrying, tears, and sleepless Moreover, if she had been able to exert enough prolonged the torture of desperately trying of Fortune would not yet have revealed itself So, what we perceive as fortunate, may be And what we believe is unfortunate may be There's no way of knowing beforehand, as This idea may seem daunting. Will we ever make the right decision? We may. We may not. But the positive side of being aware of the might loosen one's grip on outside circumstances So, what's the paradox of control? How does it work? And what can we do about it? The paradox of control boils down to the notion we basically give up our behavior and happiness We let this thing influence our mental state to anxiety, stress, and frustration and can to control the outcome. In other words, our desire for control can When we try to control something, we attach direction. If this external thing does what we want, But if it doesn't, we tend to be frustrated So, the thing we try to control is now controlling it. An example of this is raising children. The more we wish to control them, the more Children are unpredictable and have wills do what we want will be plenty. We'll have a horrible time if we attach According to Epictetus, when we try to control external, we're in for a rough ride. We'll be perpetually frustrated with other about what will happen and what won't and Yet, many people still have a strong desire As if, without it, they feel insecure or, So, their attempts to control the world around Alan Watts once stated: The desire for security and the feeling of To hold your breath is to lose your breath. End quote. So, could it be that our desire for control And, if so, what are we insecure about? Is it because the idea of not controlling is too daunting for us? And if that's the case, what can we do about Our desire for control indeed seems to stem We fear the unknown, the unpredictable, and As a result, we try to exert control over that we can somehow protect ourselves from But in doing so, we often overlook the fact be found in controlling the external world and acceptance of the uncontrollable nature As American writer and philosopher Ralph Waldo peace but yourself." Embracing the reality of life's unpredictability us build a more resilient mindset. When we accept that there are aspects of life we can control, such as our thoughts, emotions, As the ancient Roman Stoic philosopher Seneca than in reality." So, by recognizing and letting go of our imagined unnecessary suffering and anxiety. By learning to embrace the uncontrollable, mind we try to enforce through our attempts Rather than obsessing over what we cannot resilience and adaptability. This requires us to develop a mindset that to change course when needed. As the famous Swiss psychiatrist and psychoanalyst to me, I am what I choose to become." As we embrace the unpredictable nature of control and instead focus on our inner strength As Seneca stated: "Our lack of confidence comes from our lack of confidence." Thank you for watching.