- Hi, my name is Steve I have taught literally thousands of beginning guitar And what I wanna do for with a really awesome trick to learn how to do some cool that you could never learn how to solo because it just seems so hard. I'm gonna show you a trick, you can start learning how to do some cool little solo features to and do whatever it is you or whatever it might be. All you need to know is some open chords, and if you know some open cords, you might know A or D or as long as you know some open chords, you can learn how to do some So what I call this is The and it works over anything, So what you need to do is, let's just take an easy chord like A. Let's just take your A Okay, what you need to to find A on the sixth string, okay? So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna show you how this I'm gonna show you what in the six string, you can But you can also do this by ear. So what I do is I take my A chord, I play my lowest note And I find that on the sixth string, okay, which is at the fifth fret. Okay, so when you're on this A chord and you're jamming out (guitar music) doing your thing, what your gonna do is, you're gonna go to the A on and you're gonna go directly below that onto the fifth string and you're you're gonna play five, seven, and you notice I'm using my first finger and my third finger. And then you're gonna do the And you're gonna do the same And that's it, you're gonna that one shape, just... Okay? So let me show you kinda So I'm playing an A chord, right? My song is in A or I'm on the A chord and I wanna do something cool, So I come up to those six notes, now the reason I'm playing those six notes is because A is on the fifth right here so I'm going onto the fifth string, and that's where this pattern sits right below that. So here's A, I go down One, two, three, four, five, six. So I have A, alright so let's listen to what that sounds like. (guitar music) Okay, so over that now for the rest of your life okay so it's not just a beginner thing, it transfers to anything but it's just a really easy shape for you to memorize because it's just using the and it's just a whole step apart. So you're just moving from five to seven, to five to seven, to five Now when you're playing those six notes, the most important note that you wanna try and kind of play more than the others is gonna be on the middle string, 'cause you have the fifth string, fourth string and third string. We wanna be on the fourth string, and it's gonna be where because that note is the So when you're going like this and you're moving around that note right there is the That's all you have to do, those are the six notes that you play. When I first start it's not that you have and things like that, the is you just need to learn Which is just moving in different orders, with It is just the first place to start and believe me when you get really good at playing guitar and you you're still gonna use this technique, you're just gonna use lots But movement is something that we need, so it's not like you have to feel like you can't do this because you or you don't know the notes on the guitar, or you don't know your theory, or you don't know, don't You'll learn all that, right is you have some fun with this. So you got your A chord sitting here. Here's your notes. And the most important note, is that one right there So you might think, okay well Okay, a G chord. The root of G, the note G, we're gonna find it on Well luckily we're already it's the third fret right here. Okay, so third fret of the sixth string, all I'm gonna do is drop right below that, and I'm gonna play that same shape. And my root again is right here. Now again, don't worry about speed and all those kind of things, Just start exploring those by moving around, trying Remember to play, you play high, play low, play fast, play slow. You know, play, don't play. Always learn how to So you're not just going, (guitar music) have some fun with it, like think. (guitar music) You can do all kinds of cool stuff. So here's the chord right, playing along with you And you go in there and you go. (guitar music) Notice how I use some repetition there, I'm playing the same note. Okay, repetition is great, over and over and over right as you're meandering you might go, oh I like that. (guitar music) Same, it's three notes out Then I start making a pattern (guitar music) Or maybe I change the rhythm of it and go. (guitar music) See there's so many great to start learning how to do even though you don't know And this is something that to my beginning students is that when you first start learning how to play, don't feel like you can't have because you're not far enough or whatever that stuff is, You gotta learn to have some fun, and you gotta learn to start You gotta start learning right at first playing is kinda weird and takes So that's how we do this on any chord. So let's say I went to a D chord right? I gotta D chord. Well now I gotta find so I think about my lowest note of D chord I would strum four strings. So I'm gonna pluck that So that's at the tenth fret, So over this D chord, I come up here, (guitar music) and boom I got my six notes again. Same shape, that's the beauty of guitar is everything is movable, okay? It's a system, no matter where you go, you can do the same thing as long as you move it to the correct place. Okay, so that's the first step for you is, you don't have to know all and all that sort of eventually you're gonna know all that. But to begin with, start you know, just get used to A for instance 'cause you probably know and if you don't how to play that because But you'll learn A, is at the fifth fret, okay? A is really important to guitar players. So once you make a between the A chord, and and then finding your just do that for a while. That way whenever an A chord comes up for the rest of your life, you'll have that little position that you can go to. Whether you're playing it doesn't make any difference okay? Then once you get comfortable with that, then maybe try G, go to the third fret and do the same thing. Now it is the same thing no matter where you go on the guitar, but it can't get confusing if you That's why what I want you to do is think about taking it slow, right? Learn A, go to the fifth fret, and explore that, just A. Just have your buddy or if you just play an A chord. (guitar music) And then just play that little spot. (guitar music) Over and over and over just Once you've got A and then try G, go to the third fret, try G. Once you get comfortable with that, go to D which is at the Okay, another one that would is C if you know how to play a C chord. Whether it's a C add nine or a regular C like this, I don't care about the shape of the chord, whatever you're doing, even But C is located at the eighth So again you just drop and you play those six notes. And you do that over your C chord. (guitar music) Over that C chord, okay? So that's the first to understand that when you're on a chord, you can move to the right position and we're gonna give you a little chart that shows the notes of So I don't confuse you even more, you can just use that chart for now if you don't know the you can go, okay I need That little chart is gonna tell you that. Or I need G, oh I need that's where that little chart is. So we're gonna include to use to figure out how this goes. Now the next question is, what if you have a bunch of chords, right? What if you're playing A, G, and D all in one chord progression which obviously happens in music, right? So you might be going like this. (guitar music) And you might be playing like three different chords together, A and D and G, over and over and over, okay? So the trick here then is number one, move with which can be kinda confusing 'cause if the chords are moving If the chords are moving nice and slow and you got a lot of time, that's okay. Like you could be playing A. (guitar music) And that would be okay, you could do that. I refer to that as chord chasing, you're chasing the chord around the guitar so every time the chord changes, you switch to a different spot. But as you get better at this, what you do is you start maybe I'll just stay in But the trick to that is which one of these chords the D that I'm playing, which one feels like it's the main chord? Okay, which one am I which one am I playing at the Or the beginning and end of that section, or you know, which one is whatever it might be. And again that's not but it's a good place to start You don't have to worry if you don't know, you know, 17 times 58 off the top of your of course you can, you on a lesser level and that's what I want you to understand here. So let's say we took the A, the D, the G, and then the A that I'm playing, and I'm deciding that A is chord of those three right? (guitar music) So it's moving around. So what I do then is I go in there, and I'm gonna decide to instead of chord chasing, and I'm gonna play, so here's my A. Here comes D. G. A, and it sounds awesome, So you could learn to now could you try D, sure you could. Could you try G, of course you could. You can explore all of these things because the point of this is If music always made sense, we We just wouldn't, there's rock music that just but you know what? It doesn't make any difference and that's really the point. So that's what I want you to explore, I want you to think on the six string and where if you don't wanna memorize them, you can at least look at the chart to figure out where it is. You start with just one chord with that one chord in the right position, then try another chord, and then after a while you'll get really comfortable with Then maybe you put a you start trying to move from A to D. So you're moving from here You're just exploring that a little bit, and remember I call that chord chasing. Just moving around following those chords. If the chords are moving you're not gonna, you're not gonna do That's when you start and putting them together instead of chord chasing, I'm and I'm gonna start making something. And the easiest way to do Which chord out of those seems like it's the main chord? Don't worry about key signature, and how many sharps and flats, don't worry about any of that right now. Just have some fun and use your ear, okay? Make sure you check out our GuitarZoom community page on Facebook, or comments or you wanna I'm there, there's just a world wide that are on that site, and we talk about guitar and guitar related stuff all the time. Keep it very fun, we you know we're not there to judge where you're at in your path. Everybody's somewhere right? So you can check that out, GuitarZoom.com we have tons on there to help you along your journey. In learning chords or or any kind of thing that So again, thank you for and your time and welcome