Hi, I'm Wade from Thoroughbred Diesel. Today CP4 pump conversion on a 2012 Ford Power Stroke. pump conversion from S&amp;S Diesel, and I got in our unboxing video, this is probably one that we have seen in light duty diesel, it The guys at S&amp;S Diesel have put a ton of work pump and they truly believe that they've got in the Power Stroke, the 6.7 Power Stroke Now you remember during the farm show in February with Luke, talked about some of the specifics it. We have our unboxing video that we've Today we're going to be doing our installation a kit for installation on this truck. Comes prevention kit from S&amp;S on this truck a couple that return filtration into this kit, you a disaster kit or disaster prevention kit be used and can still be retained. So this worried about CP4 failures. If you've had get yourself new set of injectors, new rails as a contamination kit. is a collaboration between S&amp;S Diesel and the nice thing about this pump, this pump been an overseas pump. So we know that this seen in other areas, the ULSD like we see a very robust pump. So I think with this motor robust motor as well. I think this is a very The guys at S&amp;S were really concerned with the gear set in the engine and guys like me, get it on a belt drive, whatever it is, we out there for the CP4. They stayed the course. in the valley and is a perfect, again, alternative it's time to do an installation, let's get All right, so general prep work that we've both negative battery cables, isolated the had already gone and done an aftermarket intake show that, but I have removed the intake in the intake tube, it gives you access to, on to the serpentine belt tensioner, but I went have that much more clearance. is working to get the coolant lines off and back over. So first thing we do there with off the degas bottle, so we don't have any do that while it's hot. And then the hose to go ahead and remove it. And then I just and put my [inaudible 00:04:20] back up and excuse me, on the vacuum line, and there's down at that EGR crossover too, and then after and you can get it over on this side of the Next what I'm going to do is I'm going to watch, because it's going to aggravate me line. The vacuum line, there's two blue connectors the vacuum system and then you can just simply Okay, next we're going to start removing, of the truck and the things that we're going be unbolting the transmission dipstick, and that is actually bolted to the manifold as in this shot as well or just show you how So eight metric for the trans dipstick, I this bolt now and I go ahead and just do the while we're right here, but I'll switch over I'm going pull this bolt out real quick on and show you getting the old dipstick bolt. dipstick bolt eight metric again here. Need and remove that and just have it done, and the fuel line delivery line. lift pump supply line as it comes from the fuel filter and then it goes down and connects the CP4 bypass kit on it from S&amp;S Diesel. to the metal line, that feeds to the CP4 pump, control actuator. this. Either line you got, doesn't matter, that is going to change with the supply line red connector and just remember you can just the fitting. we're working. So let's just go ahead and fuel filter change. intercooler pipe now. 11 metric to remove do here is get enough of the clamp to where so. And then just use pick to dislodge it loose, then you remember your clip for the to get back in there, which is kind of difficult. it. So what we do is just go around and release once you've taken it where it needs to go it should come on. You just got to work with try and I knew I wasn't going to either. so, we can work front to back and then take All right, we're going to go ahead and take pipe off. I just take off the neur... If you got stock pipe on this truck so I'm just going thing. So I'll free this up and make sure a pick at the top side of this spring clamp one side or the other and you just don't ever But the spring clamp on these is half. Well, to where you can dislodge it. So that's what so and then move it out of the way. And while be inside of the pipe. Don't freak out and the goodness that is PCV. intake manifold. First thing that we do is a push pin or a little Christmas tree. We articulate it. Then I unhook my MAP sensor. then it's got a Christmas tree push pin on And then what I do is I go ahead and take intake manifold bolts that we can get to before bolts that are back there at the manifold. seven here on our front for 15 in total. And your positioning on there. There's keepers come out, can just be removed with the intake there's different lengths on them. Everywhere so it's pretty easy to track. up and then we're going to get on our topside in the back. showed you taking the seven bolts out the in the back. The eight in the back connect intake manifolds itself and there are eight back, that are a little harder to get to and here, but there are two more back there. Same a really good shot. There's four bolts over There's really nothing that I'm going to be it and growl thing but I'll show you the intake metric and then I show this in a lot of our right there. If you don't have one of these you got to get one. This one's a snap on. back spots or to the back bolts and get those. loosen those up on the plenum on the upper another Christmas tree that is in the plenum to make sure that when you're coming out you of there. I hope that you can see it as well of the bolts out and loosened up or just loosened you the intake plenum coming out. sizes of the bolts in the intake manifold. There's only two different sizes here. The manifold and we'll show that out on the table. have the longer orifice for lack of a better a black retainer that comes on them. Make and where that the collar stays in there and on the collars if you don't, that doesn't have the functionality of the little plastic I take as many of the bolts out when I can't... to come out. The back one underneath of the the manifold. If you're doing a 17 and plus manifold got to come together as a unit. You So we're going to go ahead and start bringing it dislodged and I just put my arm on that loose and then start working it out. You just And then once you get so far, this Christmas pressure sensor in, you want to make sure off camera. And then when you get to the wastegate pin back there. You don't think Adam's going Actually, you know what, I forgot that we unhook it from the hard line as well and then pin out the back of the manifold just like manifold right there. out like so and this is what I was going to the shorter bolts. The taller legs obviously intake manifold. now. We're going to unhook our throttle valve First off, pull the yellow slide back and that is right here. It goes down towards the It's got a Christmas tree pin on, it holds then we're going to take this EGR crossover on it. Be real careful with this. Don't break the upper one's not so bad but just take your you'll go a little way and then tighten it use of that swivel eight metric socket as and remove the bolts. remember where my orientation or how my orientation it out and get it out of the way and then to get the upper bolt, the upper two bolts And the black bolts for this go on the EGR cooler them go on the intake plenum side. I'll remove difference in the two bolts. Dropped that You have a chrome bolt when this goes on the that goes back at the EGR side. So we'll get the same but you just watch orientation, then in case you were watching and you wanted to and all I got to do is get a magnet and get All right, we're going to show you where the the lower intake manifold out. And then we're out. But I start with my crankcase filter filter is going to have a sensor on them and So be very, very careful. This hose gets brittle intact for a 2012 model, which is great. So you pinch the two black tabs in and it's just it off. So don't put any more undue pressure Then you have this boot right here at the then the intake of the turbo has a boot connected 16s here as well. And then there are three ones right here to take the plenum off and over to the other camera and we're going to All right, so we're onto the lower intake manifold on, but we have this intake boot 16s and both of those are usually on the bottom, I've got all of my boots loosened up at the GoPro shot there. I've got my crankcase line as well. We're just going to zip these three here. And then these are two shorts on the All righty. We just take the lower intake like so. heavy and then bring the lower intake manifold All right, we're going to go ahead and take making ourself clearance to be able to get that's one of the awesome things about this So your CP4 feeds both ports of the CP4 feed. to get to. If you got to do anything on the got to come off and then you're talking about we're going to go ahead and take these service So we start with just go ahead and disconnect So we have got both of the sensors on this. sensors, prone to break it. So just be careful. out of the way and then we've got a little Then we'll disengage that. Then we'll go down up the eight metric bolt at the pump here. going to go ahead and get our oil filler neck well. So we'll just remove it while we're what we're going to do is we're going to get All right. And then to remove it, you just to turn it, I think it's almost 180 degrees. then that's not actually 180, it's a little out of the way. Really good time to take something falling inside. There you go. way and then there's two eight metric bolts rail or the driver's side valve cover there. as soon as I set this oil fill down and get The next portion of getting our supply lines underneath of the wastegate line that is a we remove it and then that will allow us to and show it to you. lines that are right here on the service line, kit coming from the S&amp;S filter. So I'm just stock line, if you were working with this, So I'm just going to simply release it and hand it, so I'm going to do that and release fuel lines disconnected from that line. And And show you the bolts. I misspoke there. fuel rail for the return and it's got the just pinch the legs together and then push you get it started easier to really get a then I will be correct and we will have all one more time, and I hope that you can see Again, right here on the return portion of the legs of those and then when the connector this portion of the line and get it to where you're going to get a little bit of residual left with two metric eight bolts, one here and then we'll show the line coming out. black cover is off of here and then these one back are not over it so we're not going simply take a pick, slide those up, and then going to hurt a thing you just have to get we're going to get our eight metric and we're this one loosened up. We'll go ahead and remove be able to lift this rail assembly. lines. I just popped that out of the pump. and popped it on out. So we've got our stud got our hold down bolts off and we can just aware of your wastegate line like so. Residual you are going to have to roll these sensors All right, we're going to start working on to show you with the GoPro here what we're right here on the right-hand side of the fan here you'll see that there is a clip. I can't that. And then there is a 13-metric bolt right to do is that's going to let our wiring harness it just here in the fan shroud, just sit it now. right there. Again, it's on the backside here. here. And then I'm going to remove that 13 where I can show you how to get your fan off. belt off. The instructions will tell you take the serpentine belt on so I've got a little off. going to be normal threads so right-hand threads. here. It makes mention in the instructions this. But an air hammer works any way it goes. use a portion of it and put pressure on the tool works really nice too which incorporates Again, normal threads. We're going to spin you getting the wiring harness off. And you because you don't want to drop it into your Okay. All right. What I'm going to do now me a ... A nice piece of cardboard folded my radiator. All right, and there it goes. the plastic blades sitting there so everything All right, we're going to go ahead and take is on the passenger side of the truck and ratchet because it is a pretty stout tensioner. down on it. I've got my arm in your way at tensioner and then just lift the belt off ratchet to come back and then pop the ratchet want to screw up your orientation of the belt to accomplish is getting to this, the fan fan drive bolts off and that's going to get next. That's got us access where we're wanting All right, we're going to be removing the bolts, we've got the one bolt that was ... We you've got one, two down there, way down there here on this right-hand side. These are all anything funky here, no ball bearings come the fan drive off. got our last bolt left is the top bolt here out. And that's our fifth and last bolt in separate it and it'll walk off of its dows access to the vacuum pump. We're going to on the vacuum pump on this truck. So you've here, you've got one almost dead center of at the 3:00 positions. And then there is another see it. And that is your fourth one. The gasket replaced. We're going to go ahead and start the vacuum pump off. And we're taking this CP4. of the vacuum pump and we're getting ready air service line off there just disconnect eight metric bolt out. I got to get bolt out vacuum pump and shake it just a little bit, bar that I use for it. There's a couple spots you can get a pry bar behind it. I just sink I'll probably say it three or four times in All the other gaskets that we run into and replace them you can, but this gasket on the got to replace it. It is also the most common on the six, seven power strokes as well so an oil leak. We've got our vacuum pump dislodged, straight out. Now it's got dogs, what I call gear. We're going to show you a little bit the gasket I'm talking about, it came off. And now we will start showing you the high to remove the high pressure fuel delivery metric bolts: one, two, three, four, and then are what keep the lines from vibrating and each other. So we'll take those bolts out, isolator tops off, and then that'll give us lines. And then we're going to remove the So right now CP4 delivers both lines to the line that brings it over the passenger side We're not going to remove that line but we articulate it and move it around so we don't So that's what we're going to do, we're going five bolts out of these isolators, and then So we've got our five isolator bolts out of the clamps holding the crossover line in, going to hit Adam with the camera there so show you where that one is. And then you have remove both of those. Then we will remove this pump bracket on the CP4, we'll get it. brackets as you can see right here and just we get the lines loosened up. And that just and can't find them. We're going to go through up. Remember, we're not removing the crossover movement of the line. taking our high side lines off now. So the is this return line is clip to your delivery and pop those clips off just like so. And themselves. And we'll go ahead and we'll ... I've up and then go ahead and get them away from to get your lines at the driver's side rail So here's the two delivery lines from the to the front here. I've already got them loosened don't have this they're not crazy tight. A get you what you need. So I'm just going to coming out. Again, a little bit of residual way so you can fish it out like so. And there side lines, we will not be using them back. the passenger side line out of ... Well, the to get it out. Obviously, disconnect it from that's why we had to cut away from that. What injector so pull the user pick, and pull the okay. Then what I do is I take the return tree clip back here on this standard. I get Then this main wiring harness it is on a stud loose. If you want to try to attack this wiring can. I find it'll come out of there with a that. line up, and then it's got to come underneath okay. And then at that time you're just going it forward like so. As you're pulling it forward it, that's going to get you pushing forward main wire harness. Be really careful doing of the return line as well. And then once out. All right. Turn it around so you can valley, the cooling supply line in the valley, you go. here. Sorry about the zoom-in zoom-out. There line bracket on. I'll get my hands out of unbolted. We'll go ahead and remove that bracket 13-metric pump mounting nuts here, here, and those off. I wanted to show you what these of the pumps. There's three studs through threaded nuts sleeves here that they are on. unhooked your FCA. And you want to make sure to protect it because it will be going back up our ... Oh, that feels good. gear nut, and we'll be in good shape. We're nut and the washer off of it as well too. while we're doing this. It's 27 inches. We're on here real quick and just give it a good It's only got about 60-foot pounds on it so again. Apologize to the people at home. I on that so the nut won't fall down there. Better safe than sorry. I apologize, it doesn't out now. see as it comes out of here, it's not technically The '20 into '22 trucks, there are some timing installation of a CP4 pump, that has to do to them if they're found to be out of that to show you this tapered shaft pump that you change. A new camshaft is going to be coming soon, and it will be keyed so it's not going of the engine is still going to be relative with the single dot on the cam gear. just going to show you what's going on down going to talk about this but I want to get going on. These dogs in the fuel pump gear, the vacuum pump. And I've got the cam gear can just see in this shot, you can just see a double mark on the fuel pump gear. going to turn the motor over with the 27 metric to get them to where they are meshed perfectly. gear at the 12:00, 6:00 position running north-south, there in that position. Then we'll show you really good shot of those two marks in the It just makes that an easier process to pull that lined up. you on the pump what you're up against there. but it's on a tapered shaft so we're going snout of the pump, and give her a little wrap on a tapered shaft. So I just like to use shaft. It's got an indention it and the ball then you got enough room to give it a couple loose. we unbolted it like we told you just so we've going ease everything back. The pump gear kosher there. Keep going back on our pump, out and in our hands. I wanted to get a good is going to be at the bottom there, and then there lined up and meshed. And these are helical you've got to be cognizant of the fact that reinstall it. a second, and I'm going to go ahead and remove gear is because there are two bolts in this one of them but I've still got this 15 over are removed because we make provisions for new plate that will actually utilize these had to re-shoot this shot but I did already your cover, they're 15 metric, and we're going on getting those removed from the cover. 15 metric-headed pump bolts that we pull out bolts are shanked to where they have a larger a smaller thread that this pump nut, which goes on. It's pretty cool. I mean, for just to pull these out of the cover because of The washer stays with the bolt unless you it's going to stay right there. You want to is really helpful here if you have one. I ball is about half stuck on so I don't really And it's got enough flex in it to be good. that I don't have anything that drops down This is a 15 metric and it's ... I've got this. My socket's not going to come off, I so I dug through my box and found that. We're going to show you a little bit of what we loose. Now the bottom stud you don't remove going to reuse that on the DCR pump installation go in here and get this bolt out. I don't to see. I've already got it loosened up so And then Adam can come into the engine valve ... Back it out and then Adam can come into what he's doing there. So you can see that And once you get past the shank of the bolt you'll kind of get to a little stopping point You can go ahead and pull it off of the bolt there, it hits the cover. What I do is just pressure to it towards the passenger side what you're on, and then that just lets it my hand on it. I've got a little rag in there out. you don't want to get in there ... There's want to round it off. That's going to make time and you'll get it out. And then you leave All right, so I wanted to show you the mounting how this is going to work, and it's really the whole project was get a pump in the valley were able to do with this, but with this pump's of spacing was needed to be added. So S&amp;S bracket and that's what I'm going to show So what the mounting bracket is going to do studs that we took out of the block, the factory with two T45 beveled bolts. Those will be this bracket to the block. Now once that is is going to be your mounting studs. They are the stock pump nuts, which were really, really short threaded side of the shank and a long of the shank is what goes into the mounting there that the pump mounts on. then you'll add two to the top of plate. I the truck. S&amp;S supplies you with Loctite. Loctite as well, so make sure you use it. get there. And now I'm going to set the table this pump just a little bit, and I want to to '19 trucks don't have to be timed. In this However, the stock CP4 pump that comes off it is essentially timed, I guess by proxy Where this is a tapered shaft pump at the for a cam that is going to have a timing pin don't have to worry about later down the road. over to where the cam mark and the fuel pump because at that point you're going to have going by here. Hey, as soon as you get a thoroughbred by when you're in the middle of an install So let's talk about timing. So we are going get you accustomed to how this is. For you we get to our 20 and up video, you can have dead center is what we're going to be using. will be with the dot as you're facing the The reason why there is timing there, so again say most common rail systems, don't rely on way the fuel regulators work, you'll get a phase, I'm going to call it. So again, with time it to show you how it's done. If you is going to change. Your harmonics are going do not work the same way that they do on the So let me show you redneck timing, what me set your DCR pump on the bench and you turn module on the top of the pump, if you turn with the FCA up, all you will do is take this down. So now when you go to mount it in the have the back plate of the pump will be flat, west as the pump is or as the engine is oriented and then this little indention mark on the there's an indention mark right in the bottom at about the 6:30 to 7:00 position as it will So pretty slick little way of timing it. Again, at the 6:00 position down on the bench. So to be at about that 6:30, 7:00 position. So time. This is not necessary on '11 to '19 do it that way, it's perfectly fine to do. it correctly in a '20 and plus truck. And change in this pump in some months after this will be identical to that of what the CP4 as you can see there, that engages this pin We are ready to install our DCR pump plate again, you're reusing the stock stud as it the two mounting holes for the beveled screws you go to take the bolts out of it, you can getting a metric 10 by 1.5 thread chaser and Then you want to make sure that you get this flat contact of the DCR mounting plate to just hang it on that bottom stock stud and our bevel bolts. be smooth when they go in, and then we will we will go ahead and install it. So what we're and tighten these down and you want to torque on the mounting bolts for the plate to the good and clean. If you need to chase these going to take just a few minutes here, we're we'll come back and show you putting the studs Back in the engine valley now, I just wanted have got a short side, I'm going to show you, mounting of the DCR pump. Short side is what We're going to give her just a little bit this mounting plate is they've got the shoulders you just run the short side of the threads your DCR pump. Loctite. Knocked her off of ocean there. Snug that down and all the way All right, so I want to talk about installing are going to probably be the hardest one is of a combination of the oil line on the turbo manifold. What we found, I really thought the oil line on the turbo. What we found was shield on the passenger side manifold just out at the front, and we got that taken care the pump now. the drive gear to go down and go ahead and your crossover line here. It's really nice Adam is going to have to sit the big camera manipulation on getting it in. So an extra you want to and go that way. So when we go on the pump and we're going to cant it one leave the line caps on here as well. Line any way. And then watch the low pressure regulator the heat shield, it can really give you some nose down, drive gear down, or drive shaft second. it, we're just going to take it over the back the other way. So let me get that over those lift this one up, all right, just like so. So try not to tweak on your balance line or make sure that you lubricate the over rink our hands and then it'll gauge the front cover. And yeah, you just want to go ahead and use We will install them and we're going to thread pump to the engine cover with force or with engage that dry flange just fine without having on it and it'll pop right up. So I'm going bottom one, which is right underneath here. hand tighten those up and we'll come back All right, we're going to go ahead and put I told you we'd be talking about the pump just got them hand tight and then they're going to go ahead and install our drive gear. going to line up with the single dot on cam remember it's a helical gear so you'll have is, that's about a tooth off right there. and check it. pounds. We've got a ratchet down there on wouldn't hold it to get it to 60 so we had You can do that with a 12 point 18 metric against. So pretty easy. And then now you nuts. Your pump nuts will go to 18 foot pounds. over torque them. side high pressure fuel line to the rail now. obviously on, sorry about that light there, driver's side of the pump and then goes to your first port for your crossover line. Second So you want to try to snake it under everything, line, the main wiring harness. Give yourself and then you're going to actually snake it Like so. And then it goes to the third port number one injector fuel line right there. kind of hand snug it on the rail and then out. Then go ahead and take your protective the pump. Fit was perfect. I didn't have to look good. Looks like it's going to get everywhere driver's side high line installed. your hold down bracket on here, you want to line to 26 foot pounds per the instructions. here, and you will reuse the two eight metrics is just about perfect because you're reusing the crossover line loose will give you access back just like so. I've got a hand freed up And then we will install this one, like so. us, I'll show you the bracket. So that's going in there nicely. And then we're going to get So I'm going to go ahead and tighten that We're going to go ahead and put our crossover port here. And now what we're told to do is shaft piece here, and we'll go ahead and we'll on the crossover line as such, and just leave is we're going to take the longer of the two we are going to go ahead and work it over go, yes sir, something like so. in here and I was just going to talk about and I didn't have any problems with it and So you route this through, start your pump take it over to the port on the DCR pump and pump. Okay. And then fit it over our wiring and then to the second port on the driver's this was great. No problems there. it. Actually, you know what, we'll leave that check my tightness on this. So now before through and get all of our saddle clamps on. queued up and ready to go. So yeah, we're on, get everything lined up here, and then inch pounds, inch pounds, and then we'll come on the fuel lines is going to be 26 foot pounds We've already done our driver's side, just We're going to reinstall our vacuum pump now. pump, you replace the gasket. Again, one of All right, so what we'll do is we will go vacuum pump drive installs into the recesses aware of that and when you go to install it, don't try to pull it up with the bolts because the recesses in the pump drive gear. So there one in it real quick to hold it and then I Of course we put just a little bit of Loctite inch pounds. drive in, or our fan belt drive here. You your belt alignment and you don't get anything there, there's a pretty good dowel to start put a bolt in to kind of hang it and then to leave one bolt of that out to hold your to leave bolt one bolt out that your fan drive I'm sorry, I'm just going through my serpentine Looks good from this side and yeah, everything belt routing, everything looking good. Okay, go to put tension on it'll go right underneath we will reinstall all of our bolts here except pounds. All right, I have got my serpentine it. I'm going to put another good push on I do my drive belt before I do my clutch fan drive to be able to tighten our clutch fan. on. You want to check all of your pulleys. bottom side of the belt. Smooth pulley gets will spin on our fan assembly. Remember, you've in it, make sure you get the cardboard out. There. All right. Finally got it. You've just will bring our sensor up and it goes right it. So we'll spin it a little more. Where you want it. So we'll spin it a little to grab. There we go. Then that'll give us bolt in. We'll put it in and then we will, clutch, which will be right here. So we'll the accessory drive, line a hole up where bolt and then torque it to 18 foot pounds. right, once you've got your electrical connector in and tightened down 18 foot pounds, go ahead So low side fuel pressure assemblies. This stock unit. Now there's differences in the versus through the years. So 11 fourteens, the line, the 15 to nineteens, you're going this adapter. And then a plug in the open using the sensor that's in the line plus a you need. You also need to roll this metal in it. We're going to show you how to do that. really nice. They're not hard to get off. that now. pick and then I trip the inside of it just and I trip that one. And you have to look the wrong side of that. You have to look at is the hinge side. So you can pop that right got a spare to keep in the truck or add to And then now we'll roll our sensors over. truck and we will take it out, roll it into and then our rear sensor. Inch and a 16th loose. I am going to clean that off just a everybody. And I'll wipe that down. that kit, that sensor goes in the rear position. has got one of these sleeves in it like we on the S&amp;S kit. So we are done with our return be telling you wrong because we might be rolling so you don't have to worry about the connection. 11 to fourteens here is a view of what the looks like. Set up and ready to go. And of we showed you, it will go back in stock position All right, we're getting ready to install mention the two bolts for the brackets that We had to reinstall those. And before you sure that you connect the FCA on the DCR pump. injector right here. Make sure that that's we've got these clips in and there's a Christmas line. sure that you lubricate the O-rings that go is your return line. So this is going to go light on kind of where it goes there. All And it's going to land just about right there. is going to be retained here. And that's going good. The other hole down goes here to the we want to do now is we want to go ahead and we're ready to install these lines. Okay, that you don't pinch the O-rings. I want to make sure that your dog pitch all kind of hand pressure down. It should go into well there. because as you work with your brackets and go, it'll all loosen up as you go right there. at the fuel filter cup here. That is the first my next one at the valve cover right down Completely slap, missed it. here. That'll go back to the filter and then to snap on at the connection. So we'll just have any wiring harnesses in the way or anything. nipple off the rail and push till it clicks bit of lock tight on the bolt for the DCR we'll do that. And you are reusing the stock we're in good shape right there. going torque everything down the low side 89 inch pounds here, 89 inch pounds at the as well. And at this point we can move this and we're going to tighten both of these sensors There we go. So I'm going to tighten everything down and we will come back and reconnect the All right, I had to remember where I had tucked return coming back from our S&amp;S bypass kit. then our return fuel that actually gets filtered, down. So that puts that whole circuit back sure you hook your electrical connectors back go the one way and of course it's going to And then lock it down. Then you've got a little this is the last one. This goes over to when all looks good right there. CP4 is hooked is hooked up. We have all connections at the ready now for our lower intake manifold. this intake boot off, but it is actually, it needs to go back, which way it needs points. on now. You will just line it up with the it on that top one is that just shoves it back. So you'll line it back up and it'll fit just here. The 10 metrics will be tightened to portion of it done, then we will put our EEG Couple things we want to do here as we progress on tort down. We've got to make sure that clamps on top, two clamps on the bottom. We our electrical connector over to that. And we can also go ahead and put our, this is can go ahead and reconnect it right here. button spot onto the upper intake manifold. out right there. Yeah, let's do, before we put this oil fill on and tighten it down. oil fill. Remember it has to go down and there and then turn it until it locks. Put your to put your oil field cap on. in. Now I just go ahead and get it positioned sure it clicks if you think that your electrical tree on it, but if you think it's going to use a zip tie or two. But what we'll do now and then we'll put our EGR crossover on. I'll go towards the shiny bolts, go towards the go to the EGR side. So I start one bolt on into your into position anywhere you want usually just go ahead and feed it in and then so the rusty bolts again go on the bottom go on the intake side. on. First thing you want to do is I disconnected to make sure that you get it in there and plenum. So I've got my everything out and have removed the rags of course and then our of the O-rings on the bottom. They're all leave your inner tube bolts in cause it just And then you just put it in the driver's side down. So you will have your bolt to go back to go. So we have got some bolts put in here that. Do not forget to snake out your map unhooked, you want to make sure that you get after we get all of our bolts in. So that's towards getting bolts in and then get everything All right, I just want to talk about some manifold. Don't forget to hook up your map is a Christmas tree push pin that goes in that has the actuator for the turbo and the We got one bolt that goes in the side of the We will install that. And then you've got got a big wide washer on it and that is going transmission dipstick and hold all of it together. to tighten all of those down and then we're our fuel filter in. our fuel filter in. We're not going to do to go put it onto our outlet of the turbo. in the well. And I'm just going to call it stays up in the disengaged position. So you which is really nice. Installation of that be a bear. And then I'll fumble around with so that metric there and we'll tighten it Okay, we're going to reinstall our fuel filter a fuel system component, injector, injection So a new fuel filter here, I've already done for this. So we'll put our fuel filter in the rear most outlet. And then our new fuel and it's got this nice stay clean fitting recheck your lines and new fuel filter installed. before you do that, you want to make sure valve. going to go ahead and install. I've got my it clips and then turn it to where it is in up, tighten your clamp down. So yeah, tighten our clamp up. Then all we're left with is installing that because I didn't show you intake. We're going to do that and put our is I'll go ahead and get this tightened down after, once I get the area intake on just over and then we'll show you the proper starting Got our area intake on. And now we're just and then we will route our vacuum hose over and make the various connections of these there. And don't forget our degas cap. Adam's the truck. And yeah, we're going to hook batteries All right, long day guys, we rush to get this to S&amp;S tomorrow, which is another video that push pin that I missed there. So all in all, your driveway if you're not trying to film and taking breaks and doing some studying at what, 12 hours? Something like that really. on this. And while you're going through your need be going through your mind. Do they get sure you get your serpentine belt on correctly. down, all the sensors, because this should lights, no anything but where we've done fuel to take you a little while to before it's we change fuel filters on the truck as well, pump component. So it's going to take us a What we like to do on these strokes, on the like to do that anywhere between three and lift pump run. And then with this, you're do it. Like I said, I'll do it three to five So here we go. Again, I'm just checking any type of leaks. Yeah, amazing. I mean it's quiet. I feel like to it than it normally does. Honestly. No right there. Doesn't look like we've got any runs. That's what she's supposed to do. No This is awesome. We're going to S&amp;S tomorrow Keep yourself out of CP4 failures. Get one 2023. If you're watching this video, make changes that we talked about in the video. a few months. And yes, so I'm Wade Thurber S&amp;S for sending us this kit for install and for watching.