- This is the brand new largest ever elephant In today's video, which is I'm gonna walk you through everything we have to go through as well as some really we made in our hundreds of The main ingredient for is hydrogen peroxide. It's the same stuff you pour The thing is, the bonds and oxygen together are pretty weak. So if we poured some of this in here, and just left it for a while, it would keep releasing you'd be left with just water. However, if you add a catalyst you could make that slow (concoction hisses) So that's cool, but we can if we add one key ingredient, soap. So if we pour this in and then now when the oxygen is released, the soap captures it, And then finally, if only now you add food that tapers like this, you can focus the expansion of foam so it looks maximum awesome. (bright music) So in order to fill a I first got together with some friends, and we spent literally hundreds running experiments to calculate the best raw ingredient combinations in addition to brainstorming we might do with it. And so before we attempted to shatter the current world record, we had an end-of-summer party with my son and a bunch of family friends where we wanted to share with them the coolest side discoveries But first, in true end-of-summer fashion, we had to knock out some (upbeat music) (upbeat music) I planned to kick things with an elephant toothpaste gun we made as revenge for when a bunch on a recent beach trip, and then offered me some cookies which were just six massive cockroaches. And I hate cockroaches. Shamoo! Get it off me! However, as part of our testing, we discover the reaction which means it generates If you watch it infrared, you'll see the temperature after the reaction can reach So, because I'm nice, I and just demonstrated what and told them to sit and And they listened, sort of. And so now that we have their - [Everyone] Three, two, one! - Go! (bright music) (bright music) This one is called the melted unicorn. (bright music) (bright music) (bright music) You might recognize Bob He's been on &quot;Jimmy Kimmel and I invited him out to join which I will address in a bit. (bright music) (bright music) And so with the success of it was now time for phase two. So we are here, standing about to try and break the world record for elephant's toothpaste. You wanna tell the good people who owns the current world record, Bob? - I do. - You wanna tell the good people who's about to not own - Pretty confident, aren't you? - (laughs) No, I'm not. - But if everything goes well, we're hoping to quadruple the amount of the current record which you hold. I'm not sure how much of like the trees and neighborhood we're (bell dings) Only time will tell, and chemistry, which I don't understand, but we'll see what we can come up with. (bright music) (bright music) We wanted the foam to be so we used ordinary baking We could have bought yeast in big buckets, but it turned out it in one pound bags. The only downside to that is then you have to cut open but that's why we have Science Bob. - &quot;Come on out,&quot; they said. &quot;It'll be fun,&quot; they said. (bright music) - This is an emergency tarp system. So if we did our math right, In the case that it does, to contain all of the foam from not going everywhere in the yard. We hope for the best, plan for the worst. (bright music) We built these three frames for the tarps that would contain the So when it was time to fill the pool, we could just cut the tarps The same way we cut the tarp when we added the bigger Orbeez. - I'm alive! - And Kevin. (motor whirring) It's go time, baby. We're probably like seven minutes out. Got a bunch of kids inside The challenge here is this water's warm. We didn't build these so this will start rising. So it's sort of a race against the clock before it starts overflowing. We still have to add the soap, and then we have to add the food coloring. (bright music) (bright music) Oh, this looks terrifying I think I'm about to get demonetized. (bright music) (bright music) Okay, now we're adding the soap. - This is what will Soap isn't part of the reaction. (motors whirring) Two more soap buckets. Oh, as you can see, that (bright music) So after a few final Three, two, one! Now before we cut the tarps, I wanna point out I'm not a chemist. With the physics and engineering problem, I'm way more comfortable and getting closer to the but chemistry is just little And it feels a lot like trial and error without any guarantee it will This was feeling like the all over again. To get to this point, we sometimes, at great peril And so once again, if it wouldn't be from lack of effort. Having said all that, here she is. Two, one, go. (liquid whooshing) (liquid whooshing) (children laughing) So the good news is we broke the record. The bad news is we're Uh oh. It's coming up. The great tsunami! Hey, hold this. - [Child] Nope, goodbye camera. - [Mark] Okay, stand back off the tarp. - [Child] Goodbye camera! - We need to grab 'em, stand back. Hold this up, Bob. Okay. Whew (upbeat music) (upbeat music) So while we pushed all the that gave it some time to cool down so we could actually touch it. (upbeat music) Whew (upbeat music) The drone was super cool because not only did it make the foam look like an alien cocoon, but you could see it travel in infrared because it would expose the of foam as it flew around. What do you guys think? Do you think this is gonna float? - [Children] No! - No? All right, here we go. (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) After all our tests, we perfected the chemistry for this stuff. So if you wanna make a home check out Science Bob's website. I'll leave a link in - Oh my gosh! That's so fun! (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) Whew - All right, Bob. Sorry you're looking at an - I had it for over a year. - You did have it for over a year, but all good things must come to an end. - Say I was mad, but darn, - That was a lot of fun. And I have good news because you are still the world record holder. I'm putting you on there with me, buddy. Oh yeah, nerd hug. (bright music) (people yelling) (snowballs striking)