Published in 1943, The Fountain Head More than 6 millions sold and translated an intelligent young architect named Howard Roark who goes against the grain and established Steve Jobs became the establishment himself the old and create the new until you become old you created and built something newer. This change. So the underlying philosophy is that we're to pursue his goal of achieving something So you can see that Ayn Rand is writing the eastern part of Europe in the 1940s socialism of Hitler was dominating the and some western European nations were The protagonist, Roark, roars like a lion as second-handers who rely on the creativity analogy would be a lion that kills a prey and These lazy people include Peter Keating, a fellow Gail Wynand a tabloid publisher and his girlfriend who moves like a pendulum We are in 1922, the Jazz Age, the roaring 20s in his New York mansion. The young architecture university for not following architectural himself a job with a famous architect named Henry of his former classmates, Peter Keating who wasn't graduates with a degree and gets a job a mediocre student at best, but socially and becomes a partner. This is so unfair. a struggling company. But things get worse. The add salt to injury, Peter hires Howard. Peter's partner, for refusing to design Things go from bad to worse. He gets odd jobs but finds no clients. At his lowest, he finds business partner. But wait a minute. Here Howard incidentally Cameron's daughter. There is love at sexual experience is pretty rough and animalistic doesn't end there. Later when Howard returns Dominque attacks his work in her newspaper column some rough sex from time to time. While she enjoys about him to her colleagues. One of her newspaper uses his media influence to destroy Howards's A rich man commissions Howard to design a temple. designs a nude statue of Dominque in the temple the owner to sue the architect for malpractice. testify against Howard. As expected the rebel he also loses the woman. Now to add salt not only abandons him, but also marries his she does everything to support her man and she him more clients. In other words, she wants means sleeping with other men. You gotta only love you when you have something going for women. This is nature 101. Male animals fight Well, our rebellious architect Howard continues classmate, Peter Keating. But here is a twist, Dominque while married to Keating has an affair Because he is looking for an architect and she the twist that seems unbelievable is that the and pays her husband Keating a huge sum of money female character is not an independent thinker. a monkey from branch to branch for better man. Gail Wynand is still searching for an architect. designed by one man. Who could it be? After a than our protagonist, the anti-establishment Now we enter a phase that is called the Gail Wynand befriends Howard hoping to get him unaware that in the past she used the same to time. Not only Dominque used Howard Peter Keating also used the rebel man in most of our unconventional hero is not only an animal But as things look up for him, Ayn Rand throws a with his former classmate, Peter Keating, design. But when the building is complete it hero is outraged. He takes matters into his own put on trial. Everyone condemns the man, except his newspaper at a huge cost to his business. on strike. Dave Chappelle and Netflix all over caves in and apologises to his staff and condemns of mind is going to be costly, at least in the man has a backbone in this novel and that's Howard At the trial, he defends his stance that a he's nothing else. Much to everyone's surprise, he what? Do you remember Dominque who was married to ship for a third time. Now Dominque and Howard are that a man needs a backbone so to redeem himself in New York. At the end, one of the most symbolic to be with...you guessed it... the winner Howard. They walk into the sunset from the top of a skyscraper Now, I will discuss some of Ideal man man is someone who goes against the grain and conformity. A new alpha male not only has to fight brilliant mind. That's what women are attracted want mediocre men without a backbone, integrity quickly bend to the will of others are not to Gail Wynand chased money and social validation and men is to win the heart of a woman, he must have climber who used his cunning mind to reach the others or never swam against the current. The workplace and even in his romantic pursuit, meant others thought of it. He only listened to his own with a brilliant vision allowed him to change his man coupled with strong will can create a How about an ideal woman? Well, the novel has one inner conflict. While she enjoys intimacy with but at the same time she is a practical woman who can lay her eggs. She wants to be with Howard character is a woman who wants to be with a strong between three men, showed that she mostly followed climbing the career ladder, she married him Wynand was winning as a wealthy newspaper owner he lost his backbone as he only wanted power and she came to him because he was neither seeking didn't give an s to anything but ingenuity and head. The other two men were simply means to to be with someone who is capable of changing enough to have a nice nest where their kids can would have a serious problem with Ayn Rand and who instead of changing the world herself as an strong men. The scene of rough sex specifically feminists called Rand as a self-hating woman. Rand ultimately went back to him despite that difficult Individualism vs collectivism socialism through the character of the who uses all kinds of weapons including and the sense of individual autonomy, because not individual. His main philosophy is therefore he condemns anyone promoting Ayn Rand choice of architecture is perhaps a want to live in our own house, not in some commune people. Animals defend their caves and territories evolutionary goal is to work hard and build a We are not like ants or insect colonies that are individualistic and selfish and Rand says not also argues that being selfish brings the best no motivation to do your best. We find meaning not goals set by the state or our parents. People technology has improved, our architecture has with what we innately want. Kids, we want a room The novel despite being criticised by the successful around the world. Not only has it has also been adapted to