All around the world, marijuana is being decriminalized, or even made legal. But is this really a good idea? In the online debate, the harmful sides are often downplayed. So let's look at the three most powerful arguments against legalizing marijuana. [Intro - Kurzgesagt] Argument number 1: In the last few decades, marijuana has been engineered Today, marijuana is so potent, that it's actually a strong drug The main active ingredient of marijuana is THC, and there's strong evidence regardless of other risk factors. Marijuana also contains a substance called CBD, that seems to counteract its effect. It's even being tested as a treatment But because it doesn't make you high, growers have gradually decreased the amount of CBD in marijuana over the last few decades, while increasing THC levels. Sample testing showed that THC levels have risen from around 4% in the 1990s to nearly 12% in 2014, to nearly 12% in 2014, shifting the ratio of THC to CBD to about 1:80 in 2014. It's unclear how precise those tests were, however. Overall, recent findings suggest and the stronger it is, the higher your risk of developing psychosis. But how high is the risk of psychosis A study from Britain found that while marijuana use has risen significantly the number of schizophrenia cases - a type of psychosis - remain stable. The risk of marijuana induced psychosis remains the highest for people who already have a high risk of psychosis to begin with. For them, it seems more likely that marijuana speeds up rather than causing it, So the reasoning goes, if fewer people have access to marijuana, the lower the risk of marijuana-induced psychosis. But actually, you could argue that precisely because marijuana is illegal, more people will end up with psychosis. Prohibition makes illegal drug stronger and more potent, because this way you can ship and sell it at a greater profit. This is what happened during where hard liquor became the norm. And the same is happening with marijuana now. Imagine a world where liquor You have the choice of either not drinking at all, or getting much drunker than you would like to. This is the situation for many marijuana smokers today. People didn't stop drinking during prohibition, and the numbers show that laws We can't make marijuana go away, but we can make it safer. If marijuana were legal, there would be more options for consumers, and regulators could, for example, Just like most people don't drink many people would gladly consume Argument 2: If it's legalized, there will be a spike in the use A 2015 study found that about 45% of lifelong marijuana users took some other illegal drug at some point. Legalizing marijuana could reinforce this trend: As more young people try legal marijuana, they might end up trying harder drugs. But it turns out that the real gateway Cigarettes. One study showed that teens who started smoking before the age of 15 were 80% more likely to use illegal drugs And a 2007 study found that teenagers were three times more likely to binge drink, seven times more likely to have used and were also seven times more likely But if that's the case, how could making more drugs legal At first, it's important to acknowledge that people don't use drugs because they're legal or not. If you want to buy any drug, you'll always find someone happy to sell. The real question is why do people develop an unhealthy relationship with drugs at all? Studies show that certain conditions make people especially vulnerable A difficult childhood, early trauma, low social status, depression, even genetic factors. Which drug they get addicted to Addicts take drugs to escape their problems. But drugs don't solve any of those problems, and instead become a new problem. But punishing people doesn't change anything about So some argue we need to In 2001, Portugal had one of the worst drug problems in Europe. So it was desperate enough to try something radical: Possession and use of You would no longer be arrested; instead, authorities launched a major health campaign. People who were found with a small amount were referred to support services, and got help with treatment and harm reduction. Drug use was seen as a chronic disease, not a crime. The results were stunning: the number of people fell from 44% to 28% by 2012. The use of hard drugs decreased, as well as HIV &amp; hepatitis infections Making drugs legal might overall Argument number 3: Marijuana is addictive and unhealthy. It needs to remain illegal While marijuana addiction is it is still a real problem. The demand for treatment has more than doubled in the past decade alone. In total, about 10% of people This is also related to higher THC levels. A study released in 2017 tracked the potency of marijuana over a period of 16 years. For every 1% increase in THC, 60 more people enter treatment nationwide. In terms of negative health effects, some studies linked marijuana use to while a 2016 study found that physical health problems, Some studies showed that and decreases their intelligence; but when more recent studies the results were inconclusive. Overall, research shows that taking any drugs while the brain But the truth is, we don't know yet We need more funding for research, which is hard to get while marijuana remains illegal. We can put what we know into perspective though. 16% of people who consume alcohol and 32% of people who try cigarettes We know for sure alcohol affects your brain, destroys your liver and causes cancer; while tobacco clogs your arteries, destroys your lungs and also causes cancer. 3.3 million people die from alcohol abuse each year, while smoking kills more than 6 million people. Nobody is suggesting tobacco and alcohol Also, nobody is seriously proposing to prohibit them even though they are extremely dangerous. Legality is a way to exercise some control over them, especially when it comes to protecting young people. It's often much harder to buy legal drugs Official sellers can get hefty fines and lose their license if they sell to underage kids. Legality creates incentives here So making marijuana legal doesn't mean endorsing it. It means taking responsibility for the risks it poses. It could also open the floodgates that shows us how harmful Conclusion: Marijuana is a drug, and just like any other drug, for a sizable portion of the people who use it. It is not harmless. The best way to protect society seems to be legalization and regulation. Thanks to our partnership with funk, this video has already been available on our German channel for two weeks! Check it out and subscribe to practice your German skills! And if you want to support the creation of videos that take months to research and prepare, and get a bunch of cool stuff in return, you can do that on patreon.com/kurzgesagt.