He was a comic genius who had only one speed From the moment he burst into our lives as a range of talent that left us breathless. Yet, behind the manic shtick of Robin Williams He had other demons, such as alcohol and cocaine. Still he kept us entertained to the very end, his legion of fans and admirers when he took In today's Biographics, we get to the essence * * * Robin McLaurin Williams came into the world Born at St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago, Illinois Williams. The family was wealthy, with Robert being Laurie was a former model and part-time actress. Much of Robin's formative years were spent In order to cope with his loneliness he created He was an overweight child, which led to bullying The sixth grade, he later recalled, was the Many days he went home crying, after constant Each day was a torment for him, with the only The hardship of these early years brought Robin was to grapple with for the rest of Robin began to use comedy as a defense mechanism. It started with his mother. Laurie had a very sharp wit and would often with her son. In order to connect with her, Robin had to It wasn't good enough to be Robin; he had By the time he was 16, the family had relocated Redwood High School. It was the late sixties, and the straight a counterculture that revolved around drugs He was able to loosen up and, after dabbling the first time. It was at Redwood High that Robin stumbled He had already perfected his comedic veneer, clown. He fell in love with the idea of improv performance, drama classes. At the same time, Robin got involved in wrestling athlete. Yet, by the time he graduated college in 1969, likely to succeed.' Not surprisingly he was also voted 'funniest After graduation, Robin attended Claremont in political science. Before long, however, he was spending more rooms. He won the coveted role of Fagin in the College's performance that made it clear that he was Leaving behind his diplomatic ambitions, Robin During classes he would often improvise, leaving After three years of honing his craft, he - a full scholarship to the Juilliard School Williams was one of only two students accepted The other was future superman actor, Christopher Reeve, who would become a close friend, recalled He wore tie-dyed shirts with tracksuit bottoms I'd never seen so much energy contained He was like an untied balloon that had been I watched in awe as he virtually caromed off To say that he was 'on' would be a major At Juilliard, Robin astounded his teachers He was able to take on the persona of characters for another like he was born to do it. However, Robin was frustrated at Juilliard. He just didn't fit in. After two years, his teachers told him that him. One of his instructors considered Robin to by the school's conservative and classical He left Juilliard in 1976, ready to launch His first stop was the stand up circuit on Comic Robin's first break into the realms of comedy His first gig was at the Holy City Zoo, where These early sets were frenetic, bordering No-one had ever seen anything quite like Robin He played a collection of edgy characters His early stand-up was influenced by the likes Winters. His manic edge, quick fire ad-lib routines hit and he soon established a loyal following. Robin loved the immediate feedback that came would continue to do right through his career. Despite the apparent ease of his performances, Underneath the cloak of his act, he was an He once said that he started using drugs and In 1977, Williams moved to Los Angeles where It was here that he was discovered by TV producer a revival of the old 60's show Laugh In. The show didn't survive, but for Williams television. He became a semi-regular cast member on The to perform stand-up. It was an appearance on The Richard Pryor of Gary Marshall, the producer of the hit After five seasons, the scriptwriters were hadn't yet 'jumped the shark'). They decided to do an episode taking off the The episode was called My Favorite Orkan and an alien from the land of Ork. Marshall though that Williams might be the In what has gone down as possibly the most the room and immediately sat in the chair He proceeded to do his lines, and then broke Marshal cast him on the spot, later commenting up for the part. The episode of Happy Days was originally shot Cunningham. However, the character played by Williams, watching audience after an initial broadcast, was a real character. Much of Robin's work on the Happy Days episode comedy. He spoke in a high, nasally voice, set off Audiences couldn't get enough of the zany This led to the creation of the spin-off series The show catapulted Williams to super stardom After just two weeks on the air, it had zoomed The producers of the show kept the script to do as he pleased - and the results were While the critics weren't overly enthused to lavish praise upon its star. Super Star Mork &amp; Mindy quickly became a pop culture A generation of kids took to wearing Mork's their friends with the words 'nanoo-nanoo.' Robin went from relative obscurity to instant It was something that he wasn't ready for. He began indulging in the excesses that come Just as he acted in the fast lane, so to did He quickly slipped into the habit of partying the morning and then having to be on the set There is no doubt that Robin was blessed with Inevitably, however, that energy began to He would sometimes fall asleep on the set, One night, after performing a late night set comic John Belushi. They ended up at the Chateau Marmont, where and then left. The next day, on the set of Mork &amp; Mindy, that Belushi had died of a drug overdose. Robin was devastated. The news shocked him into making changes in The death of Belushi tarnished the image of Robin was called to testify before a grand shock of Belushi's death and the birth of free from the stranglehold of drugs and alcohol. It was at this time that he discovered cycling, his life. After four years, Mork &amp; Mindy had lost its Producers tried whatever they could to resurrect They decided to make Mork less naive, allowing act material. Interestingly, the Mork character also found not by Robin's design. Audience members at his late night shows would frustratingly respond, 'Mork's not here. I'm a different guy!' By the middle of 1982, the character that was beginning to feel like a millstone around So, it came as somewhat of a relief to him seasons. Family Man In 1976, Robin met Valerie Velardi while working leaving Juilliard. She was a dancer, having studied at Juilliard They began a relationship and, after two years, Valerie endured her husband's cocaine addiction years. It was with the birth of their son, Zachary, to shake off his addiction. However, he was unable to control his wandering He ended up having an affair with a cocktail In 1986, Miss Carter sued Williams for $6.4 her with herpes simplex virus. He settled out of court, only for his wife On April 30th, 1989, less than a year after Williams married Marcia Grimes, the former They had actually been carrying on an affair marriage. At the time of the wedding, Marcia was pregnant named Zelda Rae. Two years later, they had a second child, The marriage endured for 19 years, with Marcia relapse into addiction. Williams married for the third and final time Susan Schneider was a graphic designer at He met her while recovering from a heart operation They were still together at the time of Robin's Movie Star Robin's fame on the small screen inevitably His first starring role came in 1980's Popeye. The movie was a financial and critical flop was over before he'd even gotten out of But then, in 1982's The World According acting talents. The film was well received , with critic Roger and absorbing.' Following a couple of smaller roles he got Vietnam. The role of Adrian Cronauer, a real life Armed was tailor made for Williams' manic style. In fact, nearly everything that he did on The performance was good enough to earn him Over the next decade, Williams appeared in a huge range and appeal across the generations. He shone as both a dramatic and a comic actor, Supporting Actor playing a psychologist in He had previously received two nominations, The Fisher King. Perhaps Williams' most versatile role was His role as the genie in the 1992 Disney animated range. The role had been specifically written for just as he had done in Good Morning Vietnam. Williams played what would prove to be his in which he portrayed a recently divorced Scottish housemaid to get closer to his children. He spent four hours every day putting on his The movie was a great success and a sequel death in 2014. His darkest role came in 2002's One Hour Williams played a lonely photo technician he has developed for years. He received rave reviews from such esteemed Robin's last appearance on the big screen of the Tomb, in which he reprised his role In the 2015 animated film Absolutely Anything It closed out a 38 year career that encompassed Philanthropist In 1996, together with fellow celebrities Comic Relief, USA. The charity helped the homeless, with $80 Together with his second wife, he also created to a variety of causes, including St. Jude On May 27th, 1995 Robin's close friend Christopher Robin dropped everything and rushed to his He turned up in full costume as a crazed Russian his tragic accident. Robin would go on to to donate huge sums to When Reeves died in 2004, Robin was devastated. Williams was also passionate about supporting He traveled and performed at so many bases modern day Bob Hope. During his career, he entertained over a hundred Addict Williams managed to quit alcohol and cocaine However, in 2003 he lapsed back into alcohol on location in Alaska. For the next three years he denied that he Finally, he was confronted by family and friends, substance-abuse rehabilitation center in Newberg, There he admitted that he was an alcoholic. After sixty days in rehab, rather than returning companion, who was charged with ensuring that Shortly after that his second wife, Marcia A depressed Robin did what he always did when his work, going on tour to do stand up. But in the middle of the tour it was discovered The operation went well, but it required quiet This forced time of inactivity allowed the William's addictive personality led to marathon Cycling was a healthy obsession for him, but, his whole life, being alone in a room with He soon began drinking again. This time he didn't care who knew. In May of 2014, William's new TV show, The In July, he was back in rehab. Around that time he also learned that he had After his death it was discovered what had Lewy body dementia. After his death, Robin's wife Susan revealed prolonged episodes of fear and anxiety, insomnia, over a year. She said that he would constantly tell her, On August 11th, 2014, Robin Williams committed He died from asphyxiation. His wife, Susan, stated that he was killed brain.' Within hours of the tragic news of his passing, standing on their desks with the caption, to Robin's character in 'Dead Poet's It was a fitting tribute.