- No! (Jake gags) - Oh my god, yes. You guys asked for it and We will be roasting the best and worst of your setups from Twitter right nafter these messages The VOLTA Spark 60 watt features a snag-safe for both trip protection and For even faster charging, check out their VOLTA Spark 100 watt (upbeat electronic music) Wait a minute, this is Madison's set up. - It's terrible, I built that computer for her and this is how she treats it? - What's with the keyboard? - What's with the boxes, - This is not current, this I mean if I was gonna I might add a chair, - Oh, that's where she sits. So the keyboard goes in the lap. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's You need your a LTT Store - LTTstore.com. Next up, &quot;I dare you Linus.&quot; This setup is (beep) awesome. Hold up, wait, is this the before picture? - [Jake] Yeah, okay, is why did you put so many outlets? Just put a power bar, it Apparently they had to chisel the brick just to put the boxes in there. - Oh, that's awesome. I love that, just building That is great and it's such an easy mod. You can tell they didn't - Basically what he's saying - But it's a great concept. - [Jake] Wait, is this a - [Linus] Oh. (Jake laughs) - You're so lazy, what? - The iPad has a camera on it. I mean you shouldn't use it 'cause if you use it, you're a - Okay, this one. - [Jake] The reason I put this in, because look at that case. - [Linus] That is sick. - [Jake] Look at the back corner. - Hey, hey, hey, hey. - Wait, why does he have a glass then? - Yeah, hey. - You're cheating on your LTT Store. - So what, it's just decorative? Is this what you think of Well they have their number Also you got your power strip Power strip goes under the desk. That's not clean. - Should've gave us a different angle. - [Linus] Is this a - That's a VR headset, what do you mean? - It's a what? Oh, it's a VR headset. - Okay, I included this one for the doggo. - [Linus] Okay, you took the time to suck up with the LTT Store water bottle - [Jake] And the calendar, look at that. You didn't take the time to - Definitely points for doggo but I gotta subtract points for having I mean where are her arms? Yes, I know that's a more than - Look at this, so it's HDMI Oh what, is the keyboard in the drawer? Whoever this is, please tell me you do not use your keyboard like that. - This looks like probably the least ergonomic setup I've Look how thick this desk is. - Oh, you just wait. (Linus laughs) - AvroLIVE, you're up. - You know what, this has got You got the cooling fan so that you can sit there for hours on end. - And there's like an up - Is there really? - Why wouldn't you clear off your desk before - He wanted it to be authentic. Okay, what I'm wondering is do you leave all that stuff Personally, I use my VR and so it just sits in a bin. - They probably use it for (beep). - (beep)? - Well, it's at their desk. - What? - It's not like they're - Or like I don't know, a racing game. - Look at the size of this room. I'm not judging, I'm not judging. This is not my privilege talking. I'm just saying that's - What do you use the controllers for? - Navigating to the next (beep). &quot;Me rebuilding my PC after getting burned by a fake 1050ti before It's the one. But that's okay, you're still cool because is that a (beep) Game Gear? I love it, you got &quot;Power Rangers&quot; for it? Got that &quot;Lion King&quot; game? What is this, why? - You have so much cabinet space, why is your computer on the floor? Also, you didn't peel the (beep) glass. - There's literally a cabinet right here. - Cabinets. Look, he uses it for the Switch. (Linus laughs) Okay, I like this guy's priorities. Noctua cooler, square monitor. - For the price of that cooler, you could actually get a better monitor. Computer paper, this is your stand. - Maybe this is like his he's got an MX Master, - Please tell me this isn't - I tried to find one with Nobody was shameful - [Linus] Ooh, I do like the pink. - [Jake] I want to roast - [Linus] No, it looks great. - You spent so much money on RGB fans and you have a 120 mil AIO. (Linus laughs) And look at the RAM, it's like - That's okay, that's okay. - ValueRAM can be a good value I guess. - But the 120 mil AIO, - Okay, I bet you this guy vapes. He's got an 18650 battery charger. Do you think he drives a Subaru? - [Linus] &quot;A little bit late - [Jake] What's going on - That's where you're going with this? I want to know where all the Like who does that? - Maybe he was one of those dudes that just like ripped Blu-Rays. I don't think this I think we're getting bamboozled. It's not even lit up at all. - Oh wait, there's a second power supply. - What? - You know what? I bet they did like a - Yeah. I like it, I like it, - Or just you did two for yourself. - I was assuming the best. - Okay, this is a (beep) VR setup. - Is it because there's no - That's kind of what I was thinking, yes. - Yeah, I got you. Is that what you do with your VR headset? - My VR headset is in my living room. - So he's like &quot;I have three kids.&quot; - Yeah. Jeremy974, you're up. Wow, that is a big dick power bar. You flexing on me, Jeremy? - [Jake] Literally. - What is up with this webcam placement? I actually can't tell how this - And what about the mic? It's like in a shock mount Is that a little iPhone - Oh nice, got that iPhone 4. - Is that a (beep) iPhone? - Oh yeah, 100% (beep) iPhone. - It probably doesn't work that well. - No, it doesn't. - Oh it doesn't, so you would know? - No, yeah no, it's not great. Actually it's fine, I mean Pitikiwiii. - [Jake] Don't read the - What am I looking at? Okay, so you've got an Intel AIO. You're one of the six people on earth who bought one of those, good for you. - [Jake] You still haven't That's a USB fan. - It's what you think it is. - Just pointing at the GPU. - Notice how the GPU has no shroud? - Oh my god, they've got USB - Look at the caption. - Yeah, it would have been cheaper and easier to just get regular PC fans. - You could've just - And just like zip-tied it. - Plugged it into your motherboard. He probably spent like 20 bucks on two different like little - And then you need this USB hub here and everything and look at No! - I'm amazed it took you - Well, I didn't think it could be right. XxMX, whatever your name is. Okay, got the 3D Vision monitor. - That's an IKEA lamp for sure. - Rocking the DT 770 Pros. This is like a bang for the buck setup. Vega 56, wow, I knew someone - Is this a (beep) VR headset? - Yeah, I don't see a controller. That's not a good look. - But the first one had controllers and you said it was (beep). - I was just joking that time. - This is another one of those mics that is just permanently, but it just sits above my monitor. - Yeah, this is not- - And you have a pop filter. - A pop filter is for when it's like three inches from your mouth. No! Madison, you're so trendy now. - [Jake] I think this one - [Linus] I think so too. - [Jake] You have no mousing room. - At least the keyboard and mouse are like on the same - Yeah, he put the plywood for - The desk is coming, okay? The desk, it's coming, it's in the mail. That moment when you need so much RGB, you gotta make your wallpaper RGB. This is quite possibly the worst surround sound speaker - What is the middle channel doing? - Nothing. - It's atmos, okay? - What are the other ones doing? - It bounces off the top. - They're like pointing down and then the middle ones like hey Jake, I'm just talking to you right now. - How's a going? I like his art though. - Is that another surround sound up there? Yeah, it is. Why? - Those are supposed to be - Yeah. - They go behind you, bruh. - And hold on, look at that cable. - Look at this cable, oh. - No, go down, it gets worse. Go down. - Just go down. Why did you put the cable on the molding? Put it below the molding. - And then it has to go over it. You nailed it into your wall there. And what is this fan, do you - Look, he's gaming. - Do you get a little hot and - You can tell he's a pro This is like Luke's twin, SLI 1080s. He says it performs like a beast. Your full of (beep). I guarantee it does - There's a lot of unruly beasts that don't do what they're supposed to do. - Yes. - It could perform like a beast, Jake. - Yeah, performs like a beast and just doesn't do what anyone Aloeolvera. - Okay, dual monitor. (both laughing) It's even smashed too. - What the hell, you know what? No, no, gotta be a streamer, I actually strongly prefer monitoring my Twitch chat on a phone. - Why? - Because I don't like having a whole monitor taking I only have a single ultra wide. - What if you just had four monitors? - Well I don't have the space for it and I have children in my house. They take up a lot of space, okay? - Just get rid of 'em. - Yeah? Got the webcam cover. I gotta be honest with you. I don't get the whole like You know, if the CIA wants to watch you, look 'em in the eye. - Just get a VR headset, then you can't look at them in the eye. He has less mousing room than the dude that had his computer on top of a box. - You game at like 6,000 DPI. - Oh, he's one of those guys. - [Linus] ForDaWeen. - [Jake] I don't know - You gotta measure once and cut once. - Oh my god, no, cut a lot of times. - Cut a lot of times, got more scissors. - The poop pad. (Jake laughs) That's why I picked this one. - Correctly positioned microphone. - But is it? Oh my god, yes. Got the toilet paper, it's This is great though. Thank you for the reminder. Jake and I are going to maintain excellent posture for &quot;Ain't much but still my,&quot; wait a minute. Hold on, ain't much? This is a sick setup. Got the mic positioned correctly. Got that Bottletech D-502. - You know what's not - That bloody cup. - Yeah, why is there a speaker - I feel like he just - But we can see the other one. No, I don't believe you. - Why? - Because they're more into music than looking at their monitor apparently. Lordpoophead, good name. Wait a minute, what's this? Enhance. - Lens cleaner, all right. - Read the caption. - Wait, &quot;I just sit here and stalk eBay listings on my phone to be honest, I didn't realize 2600x needed a GPU.&quot; You don't have a graphics - And he doesn't even know if the rest of his computer works. You might be past the return window of your retailer and everything. - Yeah. got the printer. Who still has a printer on their desk? I know they're called desktop printers but who does that anymore? - Also, it's not on his desk. Oh, oh, no graphics card. - Another one? - Oh yeah, look at how much money he spent on all the rest of the stuff. Okay wait, is he (beep) us though? - Yeah, but he might've had one before, sold it and then got screwed. - This is a problem, tell - What? - I'm trying to pronounce Meherwaan and the last person, you gotta get in touch, SrChiabe, &quot;Please rate. This is where I work 9:00 to By the way, the TV is not crooked.&quot; That TV is crooked. - It's 100% crooked. - It's totally crooked. - Look at the ceiling. You're 100% done, bud. - What's the network switch doing? Just chilling there, just for looks? - Yes. I love the ThinkPad though. - I like how he has a phone. - Taking calls, yeah, &quot;Yeah hi, I was just talking to you about whatever it is I'm talking about. Sorry, I got a (neck cranks).&quot; WilliamRogers, here we go. Bill Rogers, you're up. That is five displays, Bill. - Four displays running Look at how many power bars he needs just to run all the monitors. Also why? - You know, you watch All right, Redneck_Clyde. Okay, we got the beverages. Redneck_Clyde, you're not disappointing. - Hey, look, we found a vape. Got the cigs, got the - That's like Luke level. - Yeah. - And Luke doesn't even smoke. - Except that tar smoke you can't get it off. - You see like we got chewing tobacco, we got lighter fluid. - For the Zippo. Oh, he's got a shifter, all - Okay. - All right, Chu. CRTs. - No, and two of them. Ah, I love it. Got the CRT TV with the N64. Got the Mac Mini, got the PC down here with the cart reader. Look at this chair, - 1024 by 768 at 85 hertz. Look at this, that thing's sick. - Not a dollar wasted, Craigslist crafting table which ended up being a You got a Herman Miller That looks really well-made, like that is straight as an arrow. - So he knew he had carpet and he fixed it with You could have tried a little - Yeah. You know what, credit for vacuuming. You can tell people who vacuum their setup and people who - You would think the people that vacuum would also cable manage. - This VR doesn't look it looks like he actually uses this. - That's a legit storage. So wait, the same person what brung you scrap wood under their and like carefully mounted - [Jake] Yeah. - &quot;Cable management less than desirable.&quot; Yeah, I would say that's - [Jake] Look at the bottom. - Got the foot massager. - Dennis-approved. nice setup, Dennis. That's pretty sick. I would feel like I am in my gamer zone. - He really is a Zelda fan, I like it. Got the mini-fridge for his GamerGreen. - I like this setup. Quinta420. Wow. - [Jake] Oh, the chair. - [Linus] Those are some - What about the chair? Can we talk about how fake this is? The supposed, you know, the casual knife sitting there, (beep) because look how manicured this is. This is posed, you're a poser. - You're fake messy. What is with the bucket? - What's the bucket for? - You can't can't leave Oh, that's probably why So you can just pee. Just put the bucket right &quot;I suppose my $500 bill.&quot; Rocking the Xbox. - [Linus] What's with - [Jake] That's not a - What's with the projector, What are you doing, bud? - Keeps the iPhone boxes. Oh wait, does he use a - Whoa. - That must be loud as (beep). Oh, is it on an extension? Oh my god, it's just It's sitting on a copy of &quot;Frankenstein.&quot; - At least it's not a wood brick. - Those CPUs do not look - Yeah, where's the fans? Unless they're inside, like - It's got a CD drive in the front. That must be ancient. - &quot;Tree fell on house. Had to move my computer Oh no, you made your desk - But look, so he put the monitor stand, it's connecting them, it - And if it goes down, That is some greasy (beep) - Clean your monitor. - You move your monitor, you don't hold it by the screen, bruh. - Or if you, do clean it. - Yeah, that's an option. All right, last one. The laugh. - Oh, but that's electrical tape. - I don't think it's - All right. - Oh, the 12 pin adapter is terrible. - Ugh. - Thank you guys very much I was surprised at how ridiculous. - I was kind of expecting worse. - Cable train wrecks. - Where's the super dusty? We got one super dusty. - No shame, cigarette smoke but- - I've got something that would be great for a lot of you is a If you don't have enough space our sponsor Corsair is featuring It's only 60% of the with a detachable CHERRY MX SPEED RGB silver key switches and of course, per key RGB backlighting with Corsair's excellent the RGB with everything So don't wait, buy yours today at the link in the video description. I think you guys did Those two of you who are you guys gotta get in touch We'll find you something you can get your hands on, all right? - Let us know what you guys thought about this one 'cause this is new for us. - Yeah, we don't do much reaction. - Let us know if we should do this again.