how many small particles do I have and does that association with events? yes. and if you had and large was the good fluffy particle and you didn't have much risk even though you had a of the fabric of insulin resistance and metabolic more harmful than the large fluffy kind? are have high cholesterol or high ApoB as long as my answering all of these common questions. Our clinical lipidologist and fellow of the national diagnosing and managing lipoprotein and metabolic metabolic disorders Institute, he is founder reports and he is also a professor at Wake Forest part of the first team of researchers that adapted and this is the technique that is nowadays published extensively on this question of here's my conversation with Dr Cromwell. a lot of if my LDL particles are smaller or larger does data? that is a wonderful question and depending and I don't want to try to make a controversial one step back before we answer the question and with each other, and size overlaps with other so what we have is a mixture of things that keep those things out of a crowd we have just created a became aware of size, going back into the 70s certain people were having heart attacks with what they weren't hypertensive, they weren't diabetic, have heart disease and they had a heart attack. of evaluating the things we could measure, small were having heart attacks and issues but didn't size was significantly associated with risk is that small size particles are worse than large that might be true. when you're thinking about why move from the blood into the wall of the artery. particles. that was an argument. small particles, a large particle, that's another argument that all plausibility arguments. it's plausible. now, you have small size you carry less stuff. right? A of water I need four quarts so I can have a one carries less. so if I measure the same cholesterol have to have a different number by definition, a different number. so now you have to ask the is it still significantly predictive if I adjust unique adjusted models, and when I say adjusted, can do this many many many times. you can do it as of things that are part of the same problem, and it continue to be important as I take the other small size is no longer a significant predictor present. all right, let's play that backwards, if after I adjust for particle size? the answer is questions. so you can ask the question, is size what else is going on? how many of the bad guys do size is small? so that's a better appreciation due to other factors. so does that mean that size is incomplete as a description and a more have and what else is going on? when you start matter of a better detailed understanding if I that some views may be just focusing on a specific the full picture gives us more understanding. so someone has, two hypotheticals, someone has a good we haven't formally defined ApoB, although most want to briefly explain what that is. but the two and ApoB in the healthy range, is there value to someone has high cholesterol/ApoB, is having, for LDLs, does that make the ApoB safe? okay so ApoB so we just abbreviate Apolipoprotein as Apo. ApoB LDL, IDL and chylomicron that our body makes. the all the ApoB particles in our body makes over 90% LDL. not all ApoB containing lipoproteins heart attack or stroke. the ones that are more and triglyceride Remnant particles. those are the and chylomicrons, not so much, because they're they're part of other issues but directly when we're talking about LDL, intermediate density in that pool the vast majority are LDL, unless you as we unpack this, many people are thinking of LDL because ApoB, the pool of particles is still if your viewers have been looking at the the looking at the literature, what are we really ApoB, particle number as measured by LDL particle interchangeable but very very similar. now, you having a lot or a little of large and small analysis. again, you can do a single analysis and does that number of small particles have a I'm going to introduce a new concept, and I have two things that are related to each other can suppress the relationship between one variable you see my hands, you see them equally well now? and this is called a suppressor variable effect. pool and depending on how you handle the data you particles obstructs your ability to see if large common thing called a stepwise logistic regression I start with small, I add large, I don't see what you can do is you can relieve this suppressor modeling. you can put both of the actors at do these guys behave differently with their the short answer is, for a one standard deviation small or large. so large is not less significant large. the number of them is what's important. probably familiar with a genetic problem called where you have high LDL from birth because you made, for any number of different reasons. well, large. so you have a lot of large particles, and to high numbers of large particles? early events, immune from causing blockage. what happens when it used to be the case that we thought small was you had a lot of trouble, and large was the good particle maybe you didn't have much risk even was this suppressor variable effect. small looked I have large, I'm okay. well, let's look at both large and small, they're both equally associated we get back to the idea, take the number of bad you can do. this suppression effect, is that at least partially, subsumes the large, the go together? or am I completely off? it's really it's how you handle interrelated variables. these in women's health and MESA and other populations, studies... heart protection study was another got 20,000 people, it's one of the largest and when you look at it in the usual way, in the were highly predictive of heart attacks and the data analysis, the same magnitude of change and so it put to rest this idea that there was large if you account for this suppressor variable something that numbs people's minds when they try lot of LDL is real bad, and LDL is a particle. the be they small. the flip side of that is, because associated with them, like insulin resistance, is lots of particles, and they happen to be the fabric of insulin resistance and metabolic of data to say lots of small particles is very true. you have to go to a different condition does a lot of large also give me a problem? it a lot of small is bad, a lot of large is bad, both or the other is bad and the other one's just along explaining these complex topics, I barely think lot of small LDLs is not good, having a lot of on the bulk of the evidence. particle size is there's insulin resistance or some other metabolic harmless, they can both cause problems, and even remnants for example, can still cause problems. so possibly the most important thing that Dr Cromwell out there, that only the small LDLs are harmful not that people are lying to you or completely a stronger risk associated with small dense obesity and some of these metabolic issues and Dr Cromwell covered. but when you analyze them account for the confounders, they both come up as evidence points to keeping all of these sizes, and the total number of atherogenic particles, exactly how to do that, with lifestyle measures, here's a video on how to put that in remission.