Have you ever had a question about liability company? On this video, for you, talking about the pros All right. Let's get started. Okay, so when it comes to funding an LLC, And it really is going to depend on what In choosing a funding strategy. So let me just show you So the first way in which you can fund the first one is called a contribution. Now what does that mean. With with the contribution. What you're doing is that we've set up here, the contribution that is, you're the money to your LLC, So if I had $50,000 in my personal account So contributions notice So if I had $50,000 I wanted to get it in the LLC. All I would do is write a check and move liability company and then on the books of the LLC, contributed 50 K to this company. Now, this type of strategy to use in the following scenarios. One I would use it Holding LLC to protect your cash. So for example, in my personal structure, that holds all of my cash savings, CDs, So when I set up that LLC and I funded it, I moved money The reason why I did the investments inside of here So if somebody sued me I have the charging order So if you're setting up a holding company, maybe it's private lending. Whatever that is, Now, a second scenario in which you might is if you're starting a new business. So if I was starting a new business here, down here, let's say it's a bakery. and I needed some, some funding to, you know, get my doors opened Well, in that case, I would probably make Now, here's where I can get, a little interesting, Let's say your total startup to get this In that case, you may not want to make the So let's say I needed 250. You might want to make two. You want you may not want to make a full Maybe you make a partial contribution. I'll tell you how you make the rest here Let me just keep finishing So a new business might be one for real estate with funding. Meaning this, loan, you're buying property directly directly in the name Here. And you're going to get a loan to do it. Well, in that case, $180,000 from a lender So here what I would do is I would move in if I needed to for for closing, I would make that a contribution for me. I would put that money in So those are the three scenarios making a contribution. And what's the drawback? Okay. Because the benefit is All you do is you move the money I do want to hit on a certain point here, tell me before or try to do this Maybe they have a business over here Maybe has 200 K, and they will just write a check Do not do that. That is a huge problem. It's a huge no no. It's going to blow up your structure So when you're making a contribution And so so if I, if I had the money here, and then I would contribute it So so again, the point I'm making You just write a check, make deposit in how are you going to get the money into there the drawback is that to a limited liability company, If there's a if there's a claim brought the way it works if the judgments entered here for $500,000, here's that when they sue the LLC against it, the order of priority they sold this house at a They sold the house They sold it for $300,000 for about it, for for 220. And you sold it later on because they sold it for $300,000. The first person that's always going to be paid is a secured creditor, So the lender gets their $180,000. So that takes that right off the top. That leaves us now with $120,000, 120 then would go to your next unsecured Well, the unsecured creditor happens They got the judgment against the LLC, to pay off that 500 K judgment. Well, what does that leave you with? Leaves you with zero. You see, the members of the LLC, are the last people to be paid. And so when you're thinking liability company, How much money am I putting at risk So another way in which you can structure And again I'm you'll see here Treating cash to the LLC. The second way in which we can do So a loan is where you or third parties a lender is actually loaning money So when am I going to structured Hey typically I'm do this if I'm buying, real estate for cash. Okay. So if I'm buying for cash So this was a scenario I was working He called in and he wanted to set up And I got on the phone. He said, hey, Clint, I found this property This is, mobile home It's got all the stuff on it. How do I put that deal together? So I asked him, he said, well, You're getting financing. Let's assume that the price of this park So in order to do this deal, okay, we're not he thought he would just We would set up a limited liability right here. And I said, you could do that. But the problem is what I described If something goes wrong and the LLC is sued, So I said, let's do a hybrid approach. Let's move. Since you're the member, Let's put in 80 K as a contribution. And then we will loan okay the $720,000. Now how are we loaning that money. What could it come from you as the member. Could you loan money to that LLC? You could loan money to the LLC. But if you're going to loan that type of money to your own limited you do it from an outside LLC Meaning this I his case. He has a Wyoming and that Wyoming LLC doesn't Let's just call this LLC here Let's say has 800 K in there. So what I explained to him, is we're going to set up this new Texas You personally contribute 80 K. So he's going to take a distribution And then he's going to contribute it up And then what we're going to do from Wyoming LLC to New Texas, LLC. Okay. So we're going to loan When we loan it over it to perfect prepare a promissory note. Let me just put p m there, you know, and then we're going to take back A deed of trust against this property. So that's going to secure it. Meaning that this LLC here So you remember the example I gave you and the property got sued, and the lender That's what we're doing right here. We're ensuring that you will always be if something happened, you'll get back or your Wyoming LLC is a secured Now, some people ask, Why don't I just loan the money myself? The reason why I prefer to use Wyoming I just think it looks odd that and they knew you were associated with it, personally to the LLC, well, that is a disguised contribution, that because you're the member, May they try to to turn that loan And that means you're going to treat as a contribution because you're also the member You're, in the sand saying it wasn't me. It was another business And they don't know So they wouldn't draw Was you Now, the other benefit is to the LLC beyond just the asset if you want to do a cash out or a refi, what you can do is take out this debt with a new loan, and then you can have a third party lender And we discussed that within two years after he had stabilized and rehab this entire project, So we get a loan against the property and then take out your existing loan So I think this is a great strategy. Like, as I stated, that would be Another times in which I would do it and it's a huge startup, expenses. Or business? So that's an example of I talked about the bakery earlier. So if I was setting up a bakery here you know, $300,000 to get it started, I'm not I'm not getting the SBA loan Then I would probably contribute And again, or the same Wyoming LLC I would then loan money to the business. Now when I loan money to the business or K when I'm loaning the money you're not going to get a deed of trust I just that's not what we do there. When we loan money to the business, financing statement, which secures up to the amount of your loan So loans can be beneficial They can also be beneficial in scenarios where you need to fund So funding existing business would be another one in which I would look at doing a loan So I run into a lot of people and they're looking to put more money Maybe it's a business expansion. Well, obviously if you've got the cash, But but by putting that money that we talked about up here is that that For contributions. If the business gets sued. I want protection, right? I like to move assets from So whenever I'm thinking the deal, I'm always ask myself, are I what's at risk? How can I protect myself? So if I needed to fund I personally own, You have my Wyoming Thank you. You have to document it under the terms of the agreement. So if you set it up where it's interest only for five years then you need to be paying because there's always a risk you loan the money in, and the court will not respect the loan, and they'll probably treat it So this is how we fund it with cash. Moving cash If you're going to be moving hard assets into an LLC, So when you're moving hard assets in, So for example, if I have a house, right, and I want to put that money, by moving that in, that is considered to When I deed the property into the LLC. So by dating it I'm not loaning the property to the LLC. It's a simple contribution. So all assets like that hard assets, you retitle in the name of the LLC, maybe it's, coins or collectibles of that sort the way you would move those and fund So for collectibles, what we do when we create the LLC and actually this one It could be your cash We are collectibles. So in that case what you need to do is that you intended to transfer these assets Now, what is a good strategy here into the LLC, is that you actually hold those collectibles in a safe deposit box So if I had a Wyoming LLC right here, I'd All right, in the name of that, LLC. And that's where I would store And the reason why I'm doing that somebody could make the argument to put those collectibles in and you meant to, treat them personally. So if you don't have a safe deposit box, the best position you have this is you want a funding memorandum, which shows your intent to the name And if you ever sold the collectible make sure the money runs to the LLC So now you got that paper trail, showing that, hey, I sold it out of the name of the LLC, something to add to your collectibles, Okay, because collectibles is, So you how do you show that it's It's through your actions. And so you want to make sure that you recognize it on the balance sheet, when you prepare your books and records And so all those little things do matter of a lawsuit establishing who owns it. So listen, when it comes to funding, LLC, The challenge is always going to be this, Contribution or loan. And if you're unsure and you're thinking, hey, I got this here's what I suggest you do. You can set up a free strategy session All you have to do is go into the show Go in there, And I have a link. Click on that link and you can set up We would love to have a conversation to make sure you can set it up, Guys, if you like the video,