Hanging with a killer. Sleeping in roof. These are just a few details about Robert Redford was born to a middle-class worked as a milkman and, later, an oil company She shared her love of films and books with &quot;She believed in me. And she was always very Sadly, Redford's time with his mother was cut high school, she died from septicemia. the actor noted that his family didn't &quot;[I] come from a dark family [that] Didn't talk much. You don't the brunt of whatever comes your This attitude toward death wasn't due to his Martha Redford gave birth to twin girls who it as yet another instance where It's hard to imagine that a charming, once struggled to fit in. But Redford's According to Robert Redford: The a local gang called the Pachucks once harassed The gang dared him to jump from the roof to prove the process. The moment led to a revelation &quot;You have two choices, it seemed to me. You can Soon, the tables turned. Redford and some school which was essentially a front such as theft and breaking and entering. Success didn't come easy for Robert Redford. Redford confessed that, in high school, noting that he failed at everything. Thankfully, After high school, he went to a baseball scholarship. Not one to abide Redford dropped out after a year. He decided to Redford first went to Paris, where he for sparking an interest in cultural Redford moved to Italy, where he painted in the streets to make money. He confessed to his biographer that he once In 1958, Redford sold all his artwork for $200, enough to return home to America. He &quot;[The experience] gave me a kind When Robert Redford returned home from Europe, and told him to get some acting experience Dramatic Arts. Redford did just that, making a living remained challenging. By this and the couple were living on his wife's bank she had to stop working. Unfortunately, the After being rejected for countless when he landed a role in a Broadway comedy but the budding star got paid $82 a week. playing with a basketball and acting crazy on the condition he stop acting immediately. Robert Redford's love for the when his mother took him to Navajo His love for the natural world has continued &quot;If anybody ever asks me why you don't live in In the 1950s, while riding a motorcycle from Provo Canyon. Stunned by the beauty of Utah's soon return and build a home nearby. True to his and bought two acres for $500. That land would later, the Sundance Mountain Resort. As his land. In an interview with Architectural &quot;Do another TV show, buy another acre.&quot; By the late '60s, developers had begun so Redford and some friends bought thousands the late '80s, he added 95 cottages to his he finally sold the property, praising the &quot;Change is inevitable. [They'll] can continue to find solace and inspiration here.&quot; The Sundance Institute, which houses was founded by Robert Redford Redford attended the now-defunct United where he and a handful of other people watched &quot;[The director] has something special to say. By 1984, Redford had founded The Sundance festival a year later. The star explained &quot;The reason I started Sundance was completely controlling exhibition, and lot of other people out there who were but they were undisciplined because they Sundance has given many major including directors Quentin Tarantino, By the early 1960s, Robert Redford was finding power rose. He and his wife were parents Redford was at a loss, so he decided to He parked his car in California's He finally came across Deetjen's Big Sur Inn a convicted murderer who spent time in The men spoke endlessly over In his authorized biography, &quot;Here's a man who'd come full He'd get plastered and cuss at the world. Those days spent with the innkeeper were just the fix Redford needed to reignite It's hard to imagine anyone other clueless Benjamin Braddock in The Graduate, but the 1967 classic almost had a The film's director, Mike Nichols, had directed Park, and they'd become friends. When Nichols keen on the lead role. In an interview with &quot;I said, 'You can't play it. When Redford protested, Nichols did he ever get rejected by a woman? Redford &quot;Excuse me. Would you mind lending me your wife?&quot; Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, released a household name. In an interview with &quot;When I read [the script], I thought, 'This my own sensibility, which has always been kind Redford was still relatively unknown in Hollywood, for the role. But Paul Newman respected Redford as the two men quickly discovered shared In fact, Redford had so much fun with Newman guilty for taking money for his work due &quot;Think you used enough dynamite there, Butch?&quot; In addition to Redford's iconic he's also responsible for the shooting location. but Redford took the director and explained why it was historically Being a Tinseltown icon for six countless famous pals -- but he was particularly Redford first met the child star at Van Nuys the entrance of late students into assemblies. One into the auditorium. He didn't have a clue who &quot;She begs, but I won't budge, so she storms off.&quot; Years later, Redford ran into his former 1965's Inside Daisy Clover. The two hit made by Redford. The stars had to shoot a and, thanks to heavy winds, they got stranded at was visibly upset, so Redford took it upon they became lifelong friends until Wood's untimely &quot;I'll always be thankful to Natalie In 2016, Robert Redford announced that he'd &quot;I can't do this forever. I've As you move into your 80s, you His final flick is the David Lowery directed RogerEbert.com dubbed it, quote, &quot;a The Old Man and the Gun is based on a true story. 70, has escaped California's San Quentin State he does best: robbing banks. However, the main is that he oozes a sort of gentlemanly charm &quot;He had a gun.&quot; &quot;You saw it.&quot; &quot;Well, In an interview with the &quot;Some of the other outlaws I've played have against the law. [Tucker] isn't against He told Variety that he hopes the You couldn't ask for a more perfect