[Windows XP Chime] There are some stories that show just how closely that two seemingly completely different concepts interfere with one another, in a way that almost force out and about that we superficially cannot even makes sense. Well, a PC manufacturer particular brand of computer in around 2005, 1989 hit "Rhythm Nation," at a high enough [MUSIC CRASHING] Not only that, but other computers nearby playing within the right vicinity. This was an a certain kind of hard drive. Luckily, this widespread issue. There wasn't a Janet Jackson maybe a handful of people at that time. It first by Microsoft software engineer Raymond Chen. It was likely the result of a group of developers that song just happened to come on, which caused this song, and ONLY this song, that is triggering computers just really not like Janet Jackson? might think. It really all boils down But that is where things start to get gray. she didn't create a song in 1989 just so she I mean...I don't know, maybe she did. This was Jackson could do it accidentally, could someone see cyberattacks where perpetrators create music them out to destroy thousands of machines? It's a little bit of music history and why songs [Guitar strumming] Then you'd know why I feel blue without Peggy My Peggy Sue! What did you think? Simon? "It's the way you look that's putting us off..." Gosh, I love Buddy Holly. No, not the Weezer The original, one of the many founding fathers of you just heard was Peggy Sue from 1957. But what's his songs are made up of only 3 chords: A, D, discography and you'll see some variation of this songs. Now, why do I bring this up? Well, Holly's your traditional rock and roll, blues chords. You like a lot of Robert Johnson songs. And as rock n you see that there is almost an objective formula with very similar riffs, chord progressions. being the main culprit to this Janet Jackson song: E-chord is set up in the song. Which takes us "Betty, where is my dinner?" "She is hardly ever at the house." "Ward! Good to see you again!" "God?" "You can't work on an empty stomach," "...Did my dentist give me the right cup of coffee?" "...which is why Factor75 is premade comfort food right "Never frozen! So it's like the automat, "That's right, Ward! We all know life gets drinks at the office or weekly dinners with the load off with a fresh, nutritious treat "It's so weird! I think we have but I don't feel repulsed by it. In "Factor75 also comes with a variety of options, offering up to 35 wholesome meals each and keto options! So, you can always comfortably "Love grows where my rosemary goes! This food from the meals of yesteryear, "Why it's fun for the whole family!" "Right behind you father." [LAUGH TRACK] "I got the latest Lovin' Spoonful album, and some band called...The Shaggs? It's a little weird. We just did some grass, so we figured we'd "Did grass! So that's why looking fine as of late. You kids work so hard!" "Yeah!... "Great!" "Head to FACTOR75 dot com or click the link off your first Factor box and 20% off your next FACTOR75 dot com to get 50% off your first "God Only Knows What I'd Be Without Factor75!" "It's the real thing! ...that's the wrong ad." In the Sixties, you see rock and roll, R&amp;B branch garage rock, psychedelic rock, sunshine pop, and of the Motown sound, soul music that was already approach: it focuses on a rather unappreciated like the onion of music. You likely wouldn't enjoy there. But funk makes the viewer enjoy the bass, the bass a little bit of a twang, and the bassline whole song. Funk would become huge in the 70s and mechanical kind of sound. That's where Rhythm Chen's blog post states that a certain audio interfering with the frequency of certain on computers at this time. It all has to do resonance is when an object vibrates at a specific depending on their mass, thickness, etc. It's because they each vibrate in a different way different properties. This is called a "resonant transfer of energy to another object is to exert frequency." Picture yourself on a swing set. The swinging your legs back and forth in a speed and legs super aggressively, not much is gonna happen; natural" is because you're moving in sync with the is a microwave! Microwaves are tuned to match in your food. So when you go to microwave your at that frequency and generate heat through the Now, think about a mechanical hard drive, full of lot going on. And sound is another form of energy. song that matched the resonant frequencies of a from a "major computer manufacturer." Just like when this song is played at a great enough volume, frequency to throw off the mechanics of the What is believed to be the main culprit of and this bassline contains a prominent E chord these hard drives are estimated to have. But being this interference even happening? Well, Adam Neely into this specific issue and he provides an talks about a concept called "varispeed," also television programs, CD players, and even slightly faster speed. There's a couple of reasons reason, as Neely points out, higher pitched music ROCK to rock! Look at this example: here is the You should've heard those knocked ...and the varispeed version: You should've heard those knocked It is more exhilarating. This is actually a big It's not just a hipster thing. Many of these slightly faster, including my own! Especially with sounded back in the day, making it so much more groovy. A less important but practical reason for radio station has to follow a certain schedule, it would only save a couple of seconds, that does add up. It's a very subtle change, yet getting more excited about it. Otherwise, you Alvin &amp; the Chipmunks Beatles album. I got it at a So basically, Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation was that E chord's frequency slightly up to just so back in 2005, in some sort of cosmic coincidence. near my computer, will it...explode? No, you are not little bit more complicated. First off, virtual store data through flash memory whereas HDDs store resonance does not have the same kind of effect. energy and electrical energy, so the behavior is people testing this out, where they play the song it powers off. But the weird thing is that these way too thin for 2005, definitely too thin for storage device, this wouldn't really make any so they're definitely not from that long ago. from my current knowledge of this situation, these something I am missing or not fully understanding It's also important to note that something controlled environment. Just having that song play time. Just like how singing a high pitch note and time for it to actually break. It needs to people that you also need really good speakers your average computer speakers is not enough. In a laptop laying around that WAS in fact from 2005, drive that is susceptible to this bug, so I wasn't I played it multiple times with the volume very &quot;...Looks like you HAVEN'T been struck by a Smooth Criminal.&quot; &quot;I know that's Michael, not Janet-shut up!&quot; It's also possible there were a ton of other variables involved, like the background noise in my house. It makes in a laboratory. They had the means and resources It somewhat reminds me of the whole BadBIOS story. legend that there is a virus out there that can computer to another. However this virus allegedly is a legend that is VERY controversial in the tech ridiculous and could never happen, while other field, swear that it's true and have even claimed debating each other in my comments about its are a lot of problems with this theory. The idea binary and then translating them as executable, programmed in advance to be actively listening for Again, it also needs to be in a controlled The Janet Jackson thing is a little different. that's shutting down your computer. It is quite a wine glass with your voice. Given that every to create the perfect storm of circumstances So, with all of that in mind, could someone play a sound in front of a bunch of computers in a not. Unless they found a miracle way to bypass And again, most computers nowadays run on flash only used for archiving and data hoarding, and frequencies of each individual mechanical drive match all of those frequences simultaneously...it's manufacturer added an audio filter that takes be played without issue. But the language does talk in the past tense a little bit, which all the way back in 2005 and we're just finally for sure until more information comes out. we don't even know who it is. By either way, you as many times as you want, without any worry. shape, or form, and silly stories like this to make changes where all of these things can like people in a weird way. But I am transmitting it's telling you to support me on patreon. me a coffee, and if you don't, I will shut your A special thanks to my patrons and channel Thank you so much for watching. If you and click the notification bell, so