Whoa, whoa, whoa, oh, there it goes. Look at that. That's been sucked in there after I built this DIY fire pit. You guys told me Now, there are a ton of different and they use a lot so I don't really know And today we're going to find out. So here's the basic firepit that I made, openings around the sides. All the air for the flame Went ahead and got a good fire going here. And you can see the smoke is rising up trying to avoid it. And it seems like no matter where you go, I think what we need to do now is bust out These are actually smoke and mirrors for air leaks in HVAC systems. And I just taped one to the end of a dowel and move it around the fire for combustion there for the fire. I've never used these before, so I have no idea how much this is going So let's find out. All right. I'm going This thing's going whoa, whoa, whoa. All right, let's see. Where the smoke is being pulled in. So it's not being pulled in at all There you can see it's really getting But right there, that's All right. Well, that was kind of cool. So I want to convert my fire pit They actually sell commercial versions and the most popular version Well, let me show you exactly how that And then we can look at how I'm going The way the solo stove works is it's So there's actually an outer liner here, where the fire goes, where the air can flow, in your coffee mug, it's going to be open So air comes in through these sets of holes right here, and most of it goes in here in the bottom And that just is the primary ignition But at the same time, some of that air And as it's going up, and then it's going to come out and that is going to provide Now, of course, the fire pit And it has a primary base of stone, So the first thing we're going to do is remove some of those bricks and that's going to allow the cold air Now, some air will then come in straight and then the rest of it But we need a place for it So we need some of those holes. But the question is, do we want big holes, And I don't know the answer to that. So that's all we're going to test Now, there is about a two inch gap and the bottom of the firing. So what I'll do is put in a layer of rock to reach to the bottom of the ring. And that means we'll also need some holes that air come in through the bottom says that air is heated up, it rises up to the top of the fire, giving it some more oxygen And what is the secondary combustion? So that is exactly what we're looking for. And another thing is some of those flames And that happens when that air is so hot and superheated, it It looks like it's a burner And if we can get that, So that's the idea behind So I've gone ahead and removed pit, one kind of on each quadrant north, Honestly, that's I'm going to make sure that that air So I pulled out the firing and then For all those folks who were saying You are absolutely right. He was a pain in the butt to try to get But I went ahead and these are lined directly So the air should be able to come in here, and hit the underneath of the fire, So it's time to light up another fire or to get the fire going. And as you can see, it is super smoky. Now, I know that this wood is not as dry You saw it to me. So, you know, that's going to provide but that should just show us Now, for the spirit of proper I have labeled above each of the halls and then we can see because kind of feel All right. So we're going to start definitely drawing it in B side. Also go to the sea side, also drawing it in and the D side. So we've got air flow going in on all four Now. Honestly, I Definitely not in the smoke by opening up. There's definitely more airflow, And when you put that white smoke in there just kind of mixes You can't really tell what's going on. That's right. I've got an orange smoke, One of these up and we'll see where Oh, the cat is chasing a snake. We won't tell Susan that. All right, let's light up this orange. See what we can see. Oh. Oh, wow. Oh, look at that. It's not really going underneath Oh, no. There it goes. Oh, that's cool. It's just kind of It's not really going So I'd say just by removing the bricks, it'll definitely I just don't know. This makes it that much more efficient, cut down on the smoke All right. We definitely have the supply air that we need But now we need to distribute it out of the top for that coveted So I want to take the firing into the shop and we can start drilling Let's talk about the location and the size of the holes, I went ahead and looked up the patent So they say that to 4.8 inches at the top, But I have seen other videos all the way up to two inches So what I'm thinking is and see what the airflow looks like And I'll do that all on the same ring, and then we'll throw the smoke bombs in there and see if it tells us anything about I got the firing set up on the bench this is a good system to drill it in. I think I'm going to drill but it kind of looks like it's I could just reach in there, pull out. Nice. I want to evenly I'm using this little trick who's like the Godfather of Smokeless DIY He uses blue tape so that I know the exact Now I can take it off, make my measurements, And it just makes it really easy. Instead of trying to get a tape measure in on this curved surface now I can just use the center punch on there and that'll give me a good start I'm going to start off and I'm going to use Then go to the one inch and then move over to a step bit. I will be wearing some protection, which And you know, we're just going to go Mad hopefully I don't drill through my bench, I found it a lot easier first before going in I'm also spraying some to keep things lubricated. A WD 40 brand is the sponsor. Today's video I'm using the trigger pro and is great for spraying down a large area but still having control Now what obviously helps but it was also making a little So instead of the chips flying off, they're kind of bunching because of the lubrication and the liquid. Every time I'm working with the it just takes me back working with my dad, And there's just a great heritage but they are more They have a full range of next level right, including their specialist But white lithium grease and rust remover, I'm going to link down below where you can go check them out And a big thank you to WD 40 I heard. I'm super excited about this. This thing is looking awesome. So here on the A-side, I've got the one and a half inch holes, They're on the B side, And I did seven of them over here. I did half inch holes on the C side and I did ten and then I double And I did 22 holes So I'm going to be able to light these up. We're going to put some smoke bombs But first, I'll stoke up a fire and get it All right. We've been going And you can see we are still very smoky. But I've got the little smoke bombs. I just got a little piece of two by four and then set it in the hole And we'll start with the side with the one and a half inch holes, and we can see how that smoke And I know there's gonna be a bunch of big All right, guys, and I took a seat because I needed I'll give you the highlights. But basically, I was trying to get the which ones were the best. And it went everywhere And that's because These stones are just uneven and organic. I love the look at them, but they just We're going everywhere so we're going to try I've got some kwikset mortar the inside to try to fill up and then we'll put the ring back on there But yeah, if you're thinking about using Yeah. Maybe don't do that. The motor is all set up and honestly, it's turned out way It doesn't look good, Nothing is shaking anymore. And more importantly, So now I can put the ring back in here. We can really get a test Now, there are going to be I already did a little test of it, underneath the lip of the ring But don't worry, I've got a plan for that. All right. We were ready for the fire, I did go ahead and put some gravel as a paver stone so that that'll be Also, you'll notice a little support And I just cut a couple and then put those in there because I did see that it was sagging Hopefully it doesn't All right. The fire But I realize that, you know, smoke grenades only last for so long So I got a fog machine. I get a little bit But if I just shoot it in a little bit and I see a lot of it coming out of these A little leakage here around the top. But the interesting thing is that holes all the way around the other side. I think that's just because those holes that there's more surface area out there and the air is going to go So what I want to do before the fire gets too big and test out the other ones get out of these little holes here. Get the holes plugged up and I'm Oh, check that out. Come on over here. Let me put it in the air Oh, yeah, that's coming out a lot better. The next day we ran out of so I want to hit it with the orange and see if we can get a little bit better All right. Here we go. Oh, look at it. Oh, you can really see it coming out of the ones A lot is escaping underneath. Let's go to this other side. Oh, wow. There we go. There's some good streams coming out. Think we're really missing is because you can see it's So after all that testing I decided to go with the half inch holes holes, the one and a half it seemed that the air would just kind of flow out and not be as forceful, because it's a larger opening. So with the half inch holes, and then one inch Why don't we meet in the middle? So we get this first section laid out for the holes 15 of a half inch holes and they're going Now, at the bottom, and those are going to be spaced at three And I may have six of those. So it should give as well as provide that secondary At least that's the theory. That was a ton of drilling, I also sunk down the paper so we're going to get I do have the aluminum foil You'll still see, but I'm going to do a mortar But I would do that later because All right, guys, are about 20 minutes in, and I'm going to hit this thing Oh, definitely getting Aluminum foil gasket is not so hot. Oh, but look at that We're still getting some smoke, because this is not the driest world. we do, we're going All right. So yesterday's fire was Even though it did start off really clean. There was some smoke And then I rearranged the logs Then it came back and I really think that So I want to give it one more go. I went ahead and I put a layer of mortar because there was a little bit of smoke And I also got some wood from my dad So it's gonna be way and we're going to go for it a smokeless fire and see if we can get those superheated flames All right, guys, I've got the TV ready. Let's fire this thing up secondary combustion flames. All right, it's starting up. Here we go. All right. We've got a little bit smoky, I'm going to rearrange it now and try We were about a half hour in now, and this thing is putting out This is a huge improvement even over that So the dry wood makes all the difference. Now, the only thing left to do Let's go for it. I'm just going to chunk wood on I don't know if we're quite there yet, but I'm pretty sure I'm seeing something Oh, man. Scarlet. Oh, look at that. Oh, man. Flames coming out. That is so fantastic. All right, guys, I'm chalking I am so pleased with how this turned out. And most importantly, almost no smoke. If you want, check out some more outdoor projects like refinishing I've got a playlist I want to give a big that have been joining And until next time, guys