AI can make you unbelievably more could be improved if you didn't have to And you've all seen videos where ChatGPT solves to do that, we have to go to the OpenAI platform, our application. So this video is not that type inside our application, right? So that's what so that I can ask a question in a cell and get it a question like &quot;Give me the names of The and that bothered me. I want to put it in multiple that information and then work with it in Excel. manually, so I decided to build on this. Whenever we're going to get a multiple-row version of was when I got this code to work. I'm going to this video is to inspire you and show you the Okay, so over here on Excel for Desktop, I've I can ask my question. So let's say I'm talking songs of the 90s were. Okay, so then we click on The moment I click on this, notice on the side based on Office Scripts. I'm going to show we get the answer from the AI back, we put it in Let's do another one. Let's say we're discussing Do you remember the Spice Girls? Do you know Yeah, that's them. Let's include their some weird, strange nicknames like Now, let's say I finally decide to get some this formula that I need to put in here. So total revenue from either the Health sheet I have different sheets here. They have a B. What I wanted to do is write a SUM function if this is Game, you should go to the Game sheet you should go to the Productivity sheet. I I am going to have a lot of different but ask our AI. Okay, I'm just going to pin this I need to get the sum of column B from different Okay, so this is very specific to what I need let's ask our AI and see what we get. Okay, so you can use the following formula.&quot; Well, go to my sheet, and paste this in. Okay, it looks Does it really work? Let's sum up Game revenue. 210,616. So, if I change this to Productivity, it works. It gave me the right formula. This saved me websites, different forums, and blog posts. I Now, let's say my boss asked me to analyze balance sheet on the web here and I've done but I want to get a second opinion from I'm just going to copy everything, go back way to the top and tell it what we want sheet and tell us what it thinks the risks are. &quot;The balance sheet includes the following: could be a risk if the company's business model and the company has a large number of receivables, Now, you can run this multiple times and you use these to cross-check with your own response, truth. You are responsible to cross-check these We can also use the AI to quickly give us we want to get the top 10 countries by area. Let's here. Now, everything is inside the same cell. updated the script so that whenever the result rows and we get it on this sheet here. This makes If you're for example, giving some training, and So, for example, we want to get sales data and company. Format should be month, actual sales, That's our data right here. Now that we get it Now, you can also update the logic to account different delimiters back from the AI, but if you it into separate columns. You just have to go to the limited, go next, and then select the type of space, Finish, and we have our data in separate training. If you're a teacher, you could go with Bad characters, add a fake school subject and fake on &quot;Ask&quot;, and that's what we get. Tuco Salamanca is different here, but we get them into some Columns or Power Query or TEXTSPLIT function So, I hope these examples give you some ideas Now, let me show you how I've set this up. So, one is Office Scripts. Now, Office Scripts but recently, we got this Automate this is the Office 365 version. The advantage Office Scripts, that automation it's going to work for Excel on the web or work in all places. The second ingredient is you have to go to the OpenAI website, then click and then you can get your API key. So, if I and then you can generate your secret key. This is on your usage. After that, you're going to need ChatGPT is a version of GPT-3. It was fine-tuned Now, once you have that, you can go ahead guides on how you can use this API, how you can through this, then you get some ideas on how Now, once you have this, you can go and you can also do this for Excel on the in Excel for Desktop. The script you write is written in TypeScript and it's a superset of you can also save it on SharePoint. So, let me an idea on how it's built. The starting point and here I'm using an asynchronous function. This code. We're also using &quot;ExcelScript.Workbook&quot;, so need to provide the API keys. I've defined a pasting it in. I've pasted it inside a cell in a more constants. So, here we have &quot;mytext,&quot; this is to the AI. And down here is the communication AI model and then here, we're getting the output right here. You can use the documentation on I got stuck and I asked ChatGPT for help this part was a collaboration with ChatGPT. We that allows me to check whether I have more than paste it into separate cells. So, this is where This basically splits the string into a list of we loop through that array. For each instance, I'm zero, and the reason I'm doing that is because and if I don't account for this, I end up that. I just want my rows with text to be below and you can build upon this as you need. I so wish There were times I could spend hours just getting I personally enjoyed this experiment just to see maybe in the future, we can ask it to and then send it to the boss. Right? Something think. Comment below. I hope you enjoyed