Translator: Rosa Baranda Space exploration is the worst. I should know. I'm the host of an outer-space TV show and I got my degree from MIT and what I've learned is that space exploration and technology and everybody knows it. Why are we spending billions of dollars when we have so many problems Extreme drought along the west coast, heat waves that are getting worse three billion people, nearly half of all 62 million of those are little girls and Justin Bieber just can't seem (Laughter) So many problems to be focusing on, and at the same time, we have NASA on space exploration and research. Now sure, that's only half a percentage which is over $3 trillion, and OK, fine, with that budget which leads to breakthrough that spill out across many But still, many diverse people think and I for one, agree with them. NASA is not the only one spending we have billionaire Elon Musk, the billionaire, is now dedicating both his brain And then Richard Branson, now has his own space tourism company, Virgin Galactic, which is selling And the guy who created Amazon, All of these billionaire entrepreneurs because space exploration is the worst. And today, I'm going to give you Those three reasons have to do First and foremost, Why is that? Well, it has to do with something you may Specifically, human-caused climate change. This crazy idea that little humans to change the entire Ridiculous, right? Half of Americans think so too. They go outside, and they look up look how much atmosphere we have! There's no way we could do Well, space exploration by first bringing us back and this that show us that thin blue line. Now that line, well, And from these images we can tell we don't actually have that much of it, but that's frustrating to see, right? Because it makes it well, maybe we could change our climate with the activities that we But NASA doesn't want to just make you no, they want to give us data to prove it. Now, we all know that NASA like Mars, the Red Planet. We love Mars, we love hearing about Mars, especially when they (Laughter) But you know what we hate? Being lectured with absolutely any data And all that data, well, NASA spends nearly $2 billion a year They own and operate 16 different each giving us different data And believe me, nobody likes This year Congress passed a bill by $300 million. This is a brilliant idea! Because this way, if this trend continues, we won't just have to ignore that human-caused climate change is real, we can eventually So much easier, right? This guy thinks so too. This is Senator Jim Inhofe, the chairman of the Environment and This guy hates that annoying data. Snowballs. This year the Senate had at that hearing, Senator Jim Inhofe bravely went down And he said, &quot;You know what this is? It's a snowball. See, Senator Inhofe was smart. He didn't tell them that 2014 He didn't mention that increased snowfall is actually an indicator Global warming warms our oceans, warmer oceans evaporate more quickly, which they can measure with satellites, and that increased moisture like snowfall, more extreme. So while we are having shorter, they can actually measure But no, he didn't say that, because all of that is not as fun Because all of that, data from satellites, Proof that global warming was happening. And isn't it just easier to ignore it all Space exploration wants Because space exploration is the worst. Now, space exploration it's also very dangerous. And I'm not talking about the fact we put humans on what is essentially built by the lowest bidder. Now that's definitely dangerous - (Laughter) had to think about it but I'm talking about I'm talking about the fact are going to enable technology And they're going to do this by bringing something Now, the &quot;we&quot; I'm referring to We make up less than half of the world, and we're all very special because we all And this magical thing, It allows us to be more than those who do not have it. Countries who have it have a higher GDP. People who have it Many of you have probably since I started talking. Now, of course, I'm talking about a tool that can be used to educate, and, of course, develop new technology. We have it, they don't. Space exploration wants to ruin that. You see, the way we get internet today is primarily through By that I mean, physical cables that connect your house to our community's network, which is then connected And this happens all over the country. And then, there are physical cables that connect our country Literally, they have to be shark-proof. And once all this happened, we can all talk Well, half of us that is, right? Because this strategy, if you live in a populated area where there's a really willing to put up the hundreds that it takes to lay down all this cable. Considering you live in a remote location, there's no one that's willing to connect your little home Hence, half of the world, This is where space comes in. A company called OneWeb wants to ruin Since ground-based strategies are an inefficient way they want to instead beam all that See, what they're going to do is creating the largest that's ever surrounded our planet. And once this constellation is launched, they'll be able to provide to anyone at any point on earth. A new type of internet, even those in the poorest One that provides, say, even to those without access to hospitals. One that provides even to those without access to schools. And what will happen then? An unprecedented amount of people will that they can now use that we will all eventually have to adopt Do you remember how hard it was (Laughter) We don't want something like that, Imagine how fast if the World Wide Web A dangerous idea. And one that space technology Because space exploration is the worst. Now space exploration isn't just annoying, it's also pretentious. And if you think about it, it's actually the most egotistical thing I'm talking about using space exploration Like, literally save us from extinction. Specifically the sixth mass extinction. Now, what I find funny is that we often Mother Earth, mmm! (Laughter) But in reality, our planet has a history that roam across its surface. In fact, over 99% of all species that have Over 99%! Many of them through one Now, you may have not they'd mostly to do with the CO2, that built up over millions That last one though, that we think was caused Now, there's a dad joke asteroids are nature's way of asking, (Laughter) You see, to Earth, And it's just a matter of time comes along to terminate But humans, you see, we're egotistical. We think we're better than the 99% went out naturally. Because we have NASA and SpaceX developing to bring us to Mars. Elon Musk, the CEO of SpaceX, to colonize the Red Planet. I'm so glad you guys get this joke! (Laughter) It's like backing up the human race So, you see, space exploration to all the dead species &quot;Hey, we're better than you. Which is frankly really disrespectful who were too dumb (Laughter) If humans were more humble, Now, space exploration is the worst. It's the worst if you hate about how our planet is changing. It's the worst if you'd like to stifle for those who still live And it's the worst if you'd prefer Many people question why government invest billions of dollars each year These are the reasons why. Space exploration and tech and sometimes our only tool to address It's the only efficient way to understand It's the way we can bring And it's our best strategy for ensuring So, no, space exploration In fact it's helping to solve humans have ever faced. So, I hope when you all leave here and go you realize that the money is really one of the greatest in the seven billion of us Thank you. (Applause) (Cheering)