[UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Welcome back to the I'm your host, Rachid Finge, and And we have something special for you. Rather than me coming up with questions, that we've been receiving. And today's topic is none It's our first foldable phone, And you had questions. So I'm not gonna keep you waiting. Let's dive straight in. Our guest today is a product manager George, welcome back to the pod. Great to have you once again. The last time we spoke, the but not in the hands of people yet. But it is now. So just wondering, what George: Thanks for having me again. It's really great to be here. To actually see it in the to be able to chat with friends and is great. We actually get to get real feedback. And the feedback has So I'm actually very excited. And it's been a great, learn more about how we can continually Rachid: Now, typically, their reviews of the device in all at the same time. So I'm just wondering, how do Are you, like, excited? Are you sort of in fear, Where were you when those George: Yeah. So how it generally works They get the devices ahead of time. Rachid: Yeah. George: And so it was on Monday for us. And I was sitting beside my colleague. And he's like, are you gonna And I'm like, I'm gonna And he's like, why? And I said, well, the reviews come out. So I think I got online and I was refreshing to So it was quite a anxious moment. Like I said, I was very and obviously hear how Rachid: Now, this is the final episode podcast. So it's a little bit of a special one from our superfans that-- and, of course, George, no one better So I guess we'll just kick it And he is wondering, you saw a prototype of the Pixel Fold, George: So I can't specifically talk to of the program and things like that. But I can tell you that when I did So when I got it in had made some of the right decisions and, specifically, how we and making sure that when you unfold that large display But when I got it in hand, just having I automatically realized that we needed to continue to improve users got in their hands this week. And so it was this mixed we had really made some really great But we had so much work ahead Rachid: So that initial and the ones-- the final devices people like, worlds apart? George: I wouldn't say So the form is effectively and actually, you read it People were saying, oh, It feels, like, very thoughtful. And to get to that level of Rachid: So let's get to the on firsts, basically. How do you see the Pixel Fold changing Have you already seen and how it changes the George: When I think about believe, with this new form factor that it's really going to really no need to compromise on The users that we're want an ultra premium Pixel experience. In this new type of form on things like and really want that to With that in mind, we needed to the full end-to-end experience, both and I talked a little bit about that-- they do use the device like that. So, for example, you know, We thought about things like-- even transitions. And what we noticed is that because with the proportions and the aspect you'll often start your journey to get access to. But you realize there's a really So we thought about everything about folding to unfolding it, and how that can be a delightful so really just wanted to something that was uncompromised and Rachid: The next question &quot;What is the most challenging building a foldable phone?&quot; George: This one's an spent so much time on making it perfect It was really the And it was challenging in many ways. Just to hinge a device like this that But then we also challenged ourselves something that was thin and durable. We had to focus on those two that it stood up to the test of time. So there would be times where we and over again, myself in particular. But then, you know, we got smarter. Rachid: Uh-huh. George: And we also built several this device repeatedly sure that it stood the test of time. Rachid: Now, this might be some But, look, I have a door over there. It sort of opens and closes. Why is a hinge on a foldable to make than any sort of other kind George: It's a great question because Rachid: Yeah. George: You know, I've Now I notice hinges all the time. And I'm like, oh, well, And I test it out. But to your question, mobile devices because they are with you all the time. And they have all of Like, if you ever have it's really impressive what's in there. And you give it a beating. For example, I was preparing and they dropped the device, right? Rachid: Uh-oh. George: And so you that, obviously, fits the form, but like I said-- and so and being sure that we that is amazing to use every but is also sturdy. And so we focused on that. And we're really excited to say that that we've tested out there. Rachid: I guess there's always So here we go. It's from James, and he's wondering the bezels of the fold and if it could have been narrower. George: The way that I start with this but kind of give you the thinking of it. Rachid: Sure. George: So really designing and what we are striving to do was our users to use day in not make them think twice about it. And so for a Pixel Fold, was-- one of the key challenges of that felt good in your hands as or wherever you put that device. And one of those ways was to So to design an ultrathin is very difficult because, like that need to go inside a smartphone. And so one of the ways that we realized hinge itself from So as we looked at, you know, and how it could be improved, itself had mechanisms all across it. And that was actually impeding us And so we realized-- well, the smart an interesting way that you could to the ends of the device, and or thin out the device even more. What the outcome of that is But we are also thinking, well, And so we put the inner front you had a great camera and excited to say that we device, but the best foldable camera. And so we thought about all of the actual usability, the and other areas like the IPX just to give the peace and, really, to build a device Rachid: So I guess hardware design is So are you saying the slightly larger and that was sort of the George: In short, yes. But we also looked-- that helped along the decision path. And additionally, of the device, the allowed the device to get more durable. So we thought it was a Rachid: Sounds great. We have a question from London from SJ. And he or she wants to know egg or feature is in the Fold. So are there any Easter and are you ready to reveal them? George: I don't think we're ready can actually find them themselves. Rachid: Totally. George: But I can just say, generally, enjoy, beyond the folding and is really the split screen The example that I was I often work with colleagues in Asia. And so I'm on late-night calls But I have kids. And I'm doing multiple And so I'll often be be prepping dinner, on a call, a video And then, on the bottom, which or I'll be planning something And then, often, what I do find is if to actually get dinner I'll often use the device as well, to kind of prop it up in put on a short television get through to the next interruption. Rachid: Amazing. Let's get to Emily. And she's wondering how the I presume she has one-- a Pixel 7 Pro. George: I think, first really excited to say that was really to bring that great And so a lot of those experiences, that you get on the Pixel 7 Pro And that's not just a promise from We really do want to allow all to get the great experiences, I think, The same computational photography that is brought forward. And so some of the great experiences Sight or Magic Eraser or coupled with the great the 5-times fold telephoto, really But there's even more Just for the fact that a hinge that can hold its own state. It has multiple displays, things like rear camera you to take a selfie using the outside display or the tabletop mode, which So I think there's a the great things that but also new with this type of device. Rachid: I guess also having just like in the Pixel 7 Pro, some other foldables, the state-of-the-art chip in there. George: That's the secret sauce forward, right? Like I said, the all the call assist experiences-- Call, things like that and, allows us to get performance out of many different apps open, as that are coming in the future, like like that. Rachid: Now, of course, at Google, So I'm not going to ask you to do so. But I'm just still wondering, like, what keeps you busy, then, now George: This product. It's so funny. I was talking to one of and he was like, oh, George, good and you can relax a little bit. I'm like, I cannot relax for Rachid: Right. George: --to be very honest. You're always reading, whether it's through customer or it's through reviews. Or I even go and read of these e-commerce websites or You know, we really leave And it's great. You know, it keeps us us take a pulse of what users and what they're disappointed by. Rachid: Yeah, I guess that might be that people think the product is out, But maybe it's sort of started now. George: It does, right? It becomes real now. For us, it's just-- for a long time, But we try to learn from what we've and listen to our users. And, you know, they know They use it in ways that Rachid: Now, as you know, George, of course, this episode, of this season of the with a top tip from our guest. So now that people can actually what is the top tip you would give them? What is the one thing try with the device you created? George: So it's not one that But the thing that I find often-- like that-- is I often prop the but slightly open on a table. And we'll either be taking and-- because then you never get to right? And my kids love it, right? And so just kind of using the you'll find that it's very flexible that you never thought about. So that I actually learned from my kids. It's, like, well, you And I'm like, oh, these kids are smart. Rachid: So it's probably the most that we have to offer, then. George: That's right. Rachid: Excellent. George, thank you so much for joining podcast, and hope to George: Thanks so much. I appreciate the time. [UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Thanks again, George. It's been an honor to have you in of the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. And what a way to close. I think we'll do more episodes And a big thanks to you for listening It's been another great season, where we behind your favorite Google products. Taking a little break, but don't worry. We'll return with season 4, maybe in-- I don't know. How does October sound? Make sure you're subscribed to so you get notified once we're back. I hope you enjoy a great break as well. Really looking forward to Take care, and talk soon.