I recently made this seventeen pound copper terrifyingly powerful neodymium magnet. seemingly defy gravity while it This happens because as the magnet moves, which in turn create magnetic fields This invisible resistance slows the fall, making What's even more fascinating is that when spin it, the magnet stays suspended in the center. This got me thinking, will a spherical magnet Well in today's video we're going to find out but first I need to make a copper I wasn't sure how I was going until I noticed one of my dogs favorite toys. Here's what I designed. It's as close being able to see the magnet through it. This that's a mouthful so for my sanity I started by 3D printing it in PLA plastic. I'll use these 3D prints to make It came off of the printer looking spend some time cleaning it up Next I'll attach some sprues. These are they're really large because supplying the castings with molten Here's the ceramic slurry that I use. the models into the slurry a total of nine In between each layer I'll coat them with fused silica sand. This helps thicken the Making complex shapes like these There's no way and having a machine shop make Next it's into the kiln to burn away the plastic I don't just burn away all of the plastic though, once the temperature is high enough for and then return the shells to the kiln Here's all the copper I'll be about four kilograms. It's mostly copper It'll take about an hour to melt this amount. Copper is always fun to melt because it flames when I add fresh pieces to the crucible. Once the copper is hot enough to pour the shells from the kiln while place them on some sand to catch any It's always amazing to me that for all the about how to do this, figuring out how around or making any mistakes it only takes a few seconds or so to cast these and then they're done, Its out of my hands. I've done this hundreds of times by now, adrenaline every time I pour a casting and I work has led up to this point and I just want everything Now I just have to wait for them to completely cool overnight before I can I'll have to use my sandblaster to carefully break it off since copper is so soft. I could This is actually really satisfying. whole thing away, I try to cut large pieces off. To give you some idea, each shell These castings turned out super nice looking. which are caused by air bubbles as these are easy to remove with a chisel and Now I'm drilling a hole in the center while I It'll make it easier to file in the pentagonal shapes I wonder what I could use these for? Any Ideas? It's important that the pentagonal as I'll be 3D printing plugs These plugs will serve as the points so the fit needs to be exact for The last step is to polish each facet and I'm using a Scotch-Brite like belt, which can it's solid copper, though, it heats up quickly, Well here it is. I think this turned even if I had made it just to have something Okay, let's find out if it actually works. Here are the plugs that I'll press into those The magnet I'm using is a two inch powerful grade you can buy as far as I know. To hold the sphere together I printed And I also made a stand for everything to sit on. Okay so I've resisted actually this moment so hopefully something cool happens. Oh yeah it is, it's actually There, now it's kind of Right there! Yep Ah that's so cool! I wonder if I can get a better angle Okay, so I changed up the lighting different angle so hopefully Yeah it is actually floating there! It's just about getting the right speed. Right there. Yep Totally just floating there. That's awesome! Ah man that's so cool! Let's try a drill. So I think when I do it really is just forcing it over to one side, I think. So obviously this is working but its And also this plug isnt fitting there really I'm going to need to re-print this and then uhm that'll make it a lot more consistent. So clearly it works but the effect isn't may be some ways I can improve on it Besides levitating a magnet, there are a lot of By using another magnet about a foot It's hard to show on camera just how strange it is to manipulate the magnet in here. Let me know if you can think of some experiments If you would like to follow along with the the channel then consider joining I hope you enjoyed this video and comments give the video a thumbs up