-Uh, great landscaping job. Did you do that yourself? Hey! There's gonna be a meeting and the palm of my hand if you don't get off Now get off the shed! -And in my opinion, that's -Oh, wow. Simply wow. Uh, thank you so much to enlightening demonstration. All right, class. To continue our Career Day we will now turn it over Abraham H. Parnassus. -Dude, what does your dad -I don't want to -I heard he's, like, super old. -I don't know. He's a dad. [ Laughter ] -Greetings, children. I'm Mordecai's father. Hello, boy. How are you? Look at your father, boy. Look upon your father -I see you, man. -All right. Uh... Mr. Parnassus, why don't you about what you do -Hear me now, children. For my occupation For 82 years, A baron, some have called me. Now, what does an oil baron do? The answer -- Crush your enemies! Grind their bones into dirt! Make them regret -Oh, sick! -Oh, wow. [ Chuckles ] a career in oil, what kind of -Oil is not for the weak. It is the Earth's milk, and only the strong may You hear me, boy? Only the strong! Look at me, boy. Look at me! -Look at him, Mordecai. -One man came close to He did not succeed. For I crushed him -Who is H.R. Pickens? -Exactly! -Samantha, you got to stop it, Uh, well, Mr. Parnassus, the oil business must be -Oil has little to do with -Okay... -Oil is about domination Allow me to demonstrate. point to the weakest and we shall ruin their spirit, of H.R. Pickens -Word? -You are weak like -Feel this, boy. Understand the pain. You think I was always that I am now? -Dad, you couldn't get out 'cause the mattress -Mind over flesh, boy. I was born seven months Incubation technology so, they placed me inside of a pizza oven until I was ripe enough My bones never hardened, but my spirit did. Be strong and crush -Well, this has been but unfortunately we're Boo! Now, does anyone else have for Mordecai's dad? -Yeah, yeah. but what do you actually do -Perhaps I was not clear. Luckily, which will illuminate the ins This dead bird represents those who would Once proud, flying high in bloody defiance And now you return her naked and defeated. I outlived you, H.R. Pickens! I crushed you into the ground! And now your bones turn to oil beneath my living feet! I married your granddaughter, filled her belly with and sired a boy! He is my final revenge, H.R.! -Dad, come on. I want to be you -And so you shall! Now, children, I was asked to so join me in the hall and Capri Suns. -All right, kids. [ Cheers and applause ] -Hey, there. How you doing? -You must be Frank Henderson. I don't know we've -- -I'm John Taylor. -Okay. -Oh, that's right, I'm sorry. As you can tell, to take their stupid pills [ Laughter ] Hey, honey, We can start the party. Hey, is John here yet? -Well, speak of the devil, and he's stuck in traffic, will be about a half hour late. -Hey, Brandon? Michael? Need you guys to do me a favor [ Children playing ] Need you to be a buddy Thanks. Well, I hope you two are hungry. -I am absolutely famished. We just finished 18 and I tell you what, Mmm! -Would you like with that cow of yours? Hi, I'm Shirley. This is my wife, Susan. -Thank you so much -Well, we've heard so many great Hey, guys? I mean it. Let's get off the shed. -Can I get you -Oh. -Yeah, that would be lovely. Well, you just make and I'll be right back. -You know, you and Susan for a round of golf sometime. We're just nuts about the game. But I gotta warn you, -Oh. Well, you know, Actually, this is a cute story. We met on a golf course -Get off the shed! How about next Sunday? Pebble Brook, What do you say? -Sounds good. Maybe we can get John and Sally -Oh, boy. I mean, he's a great guy but as far as golf go, he spent a little on those clubs of his. Get off the damn shed! I just bought a brand-new and I'll tell you, Drives just like a Cadillac. -Believe me, I'd rather be -[ Laughs ] -Mmm, you smell good. -Thank you. -Uh, great landscaping job. Did you do that yourself? Hey! There's gonna be a meeting and the palm of my hand if you don't get off the shed! Now, get off the shed! What do you think You like that? -Yeah, it's a dandy. -Whoo, what time did you say -Oh, gosh. I forgot to call and tell you that he said he can't come, but he'll be here -Why didn't he just say [ Laughter ] I will punch you in the face if you don't get off the shed! Now get off the shed! Get off the shed! Get off the damn shed! -Hey, honey, -They sure do. Chow time just moments away. -You know what, I -- Oh, I am not feeling well. -You know, we might have -Yeah. your drinks freshened. I'll be right back. -Okay. The burger train Look at these babies. Excuse me, can you hold on Okay. So you've been showin' off Is that it? Well, I'm gonna put on I'm gonna give you in front of these people. You happy now? -Get off the shed! -Please get off the shed! -Get off the shed, boys! -Oh -- Thank you. Appreciate that. -Here you go. -Thank you. -Hey, Brandon? Michael? I need you to do me a favor Need you to be a buddy [ Cheers and applause ] -I think... I think Kyle is so cute. -Oh, yes! -His laugh -- -Plus, he's so tall. -Oh, yeah. [ Knock on door ] -Knock, knock! Who's there? [ Laughs ] I'm just goofing. -Dad, get out of here. -I'm sorry, my little angel. I just wanted to stop by -No, Dad! I'm serious. I told you to sit Go away! -All right, all right. I'm going to see you later, [ Chuckles ] -Sorry my dad is so lame. -Yeah, what a dork. -Okay, you guys need to because that is the realest man -Melanie, stop. -Ooh, I will not. Okay, he had my body quaking, Like, honestly, I could have -But he's old. -Okay, my dad is 78. And he looks like a hamburger I mean... Honestly, like, compared my dad looks dead. -Can we go back to talking -Ooh! -His lips are always -Okay, Kyle is a whisper Mr. Gorman -Hey, girls, strict instructions to scram, but I brought you some snacks. -Oh, my God, hottie alert. -They're... but they are all-natural they're ANPB&amp;Js. [ Laughs ] -Oh, my God. -So, what are we gabbing How's school going? -Dad, we don't want to talk -Yeah, this is a slumber party. -Um, school's actually going I'm getting an A-plus -Ugh! -Yeah, and also you're -That's probably why you had -Um, no. It's because I threw out and my mom gave me and I fell asleep [ Chuckles ] So, Mr. Gorman, let's just say -Okay. Do I need to have your mother -No! No, please. Oh, my God, my mom's a bitch! Like, I really want I will respect everything, -Okay. You can stay, let's watch the language. And that is how you -Girls, I think it's time -Yeah! - You and your fancy car, -What is this? I think even dads can get down This is great. - You got to beg and plead -Oh, my God. I need to lay face down on a bean bag right now. -What's the matter, ladies? You didn't realize the old man -Oh, I know you got the moves. -Okay, all right, Melanie. I think it's time for you to go. Okay? I want to stay. She's doing Jenny Craig, and It sucks. -Okay. -Thank you. And if you are looking he's in the palm of my hand. -Hey, let's play -Oh, yeah! I'll go first, And I dare myself Yes, baby. Okay, no, listen, okay. Where's Melanie's mother? -What?! -I called her as soon -Oh, no. She's a bitch! She won't let me and I need to, like, so bad. -I'm sorry about her. -It's okay. -Oh, no. She's not 13. We lied to her about how long so she's super-horned up -Oh, Mom, I want to stay! Oh, my God. -I want to stay. Okay, let's get off - Yeah, take me -No, no, okay. Okay... [ Cheers and applause ] -Hey, dude. -Are you busy right now? Can you grab a coffee -Yeah, of course. -Yeah, yeah, yeah. I just want to run some stuff -Okay. Let's do it. So, what's going on? -No. I'm feeling okay I'm more excited -Oh, good. -Um, do you remember last week at the show? -Oh, yeah. My mom thought you -Yeah. Well, there's actually -Like, what kind of issue? -Well, since then... I've, um -- I've sort of been... seeing your dad. -What's that? -Andy, I've been dating -Like, my dad, dad? -Like your father, Ben, -So what? You guys, like, -Quite a bit, actually. -So, last week, remember -Yeah. -You remember -Uh-huh. I had to run back in because And who should walk in and he had forgotten Neither of us were tired, &quot;Hey, why don't we just go -You grabbed a beer -Yes. Just listen. Okay? So, we got a beer. And we just started talking. And truth be told, he is one of the most I've ever met in my life. [ Laughter ] -Is this a joke? I mean, I wish it was joke. It would be easier It's just that Ben is -- -Yes, your dad. -So you guys, like, but it's not as if you're... -No, no, no, no, no, no. It's gotten I mean... take that however [ Laughter and applause ] [ Laughter continues ] I'm not usually a coffee guy. Ben's got me trying all sorts -Right. Uh, I got to be honest, man. I'm really not cool with this. -I know it sounds insane. It sounds nuts, I love him. And I don't know I just -- I feel I've never felt We just have so much fun I mean, when we're together, and we laugh and we laugh [ Laughter ] So how do we go on from here? -Dude, you're dating -Why is everyone freaking out You sound like your mom -Oh, my poor mom. -I know this is tough. But even if I lose a friend I like to think -Okay. Andy. Jonah. -Hi, baby. -Andy, I've been meaning Jonah and I are dating. -I'm sorry. -Blabbermouth. -I know. I'm the worst. -Hey, Ben, I'm ready to go. -Andy, Jonah, -Uh, he's my dad. -Small world. [ Laughter and applause ] [ Cheers and applause ]