On July 27, 2020, somewhere in the leafy suburbs of the night to what can only be described A bat was in his bedroom, screeching and biting What's more, this furry, fanged thug was an innocent man in his bed. As this show will reveal, this guy was now nightmare of terrifying proportions that only Rabies, folks, is no joke. Where pathogens are concerned, it's without From stray dogs transmitting this deadly deases innocent churchgoers, rabies is everywhere, It's the worst, and you'll agree with We're going to come back to the fate of soon, but first, we need to give you a rabies might happen if one day you get on the wrong Follow our advice, and we promise you you'll The good news is the chance of getting rabies news is if you do get it and you don't manage experience of your life before it finally Rabies is a boss-level virus in terms of the If rabies becomes symptomatic, you pretty Some sources say 99%, but as you'll see more like 99.99%. In short, you are going to die if you show Even smallpox, which is one hell of a nasty of killing someone when it was still around Sure, it wiped out about 300 million people but in terms of its deadliness, it couldn't Even the scary Ebola and Marburg viruses only The good thing about rabies, and today we is that if it's detected early on, right highly survivable. That's good to know since you can find rabies world. More good news for most of Western Europe, rabid dogs, and dogs are a big spreader of As for the USA, each year, 60 to 70 dogs and More good news for Westerners is that 95% Africa. We don't have the exact number of rabies in 1990, when people in the US were dancing This, 54,000 people in the world made the a rabid animal's teeth. The CDC says these days, the death toll from likely anywhere from 30,000 to 60,000 a year. It's hard to know the exact numbers as the countries. Many rabies deaths are unreported and sometimes You might find an odd rabies death in the going abroad, such as the 2018 case of a British his vacation in Morocco. We'll tell you about some similar vacation Britain actually had its first homemade rabies a Scottish guy. The country that is king of rabies is India. In a recent report, the WHO estimated that in India every year but said the number could You also find a lot of rabies cases in China, The WHO says accurate data is hard to come As for countries in Africa, again, the data were 5,600 reported rabies cases in the Democratic A separate study we found on rabies in Africa Eswatini (formerly Swaziland), Tunisia, Uganda, The study was startling, to say the least. The number of rabies cases in these nations but the death rate was at the very lowest, The 94% country was Namibia, which has 269 That's a hell of a lot of deaths considering We won't get too bogged down in data. You just need to know that rabies is a serious The reason is two-fold. But before we go into those reasons, we have Is something interfering with your happiness Regardless if you have a clinical mental health just a human who lives in this world who is you tools to approach your life in a very And that's why I'm excited to tell you BetterHelp's mission is to make therapy is an important mission because finding a you're limited to the options in your area. BetterHelp is a platform that makes finding it's BetterHelp can match you to a professional It's easy to sign up and get matched with There's a link in my description. It's betterhelp.com/infographics but it also gets you 10% off your first month and see if it helps you. And because finding a therapist is a little that therapist, which is a common thing with at no additional cost without stressing about like that. So if you're struggling, consider online Click the link in the description or visit Thank you again BetterHelp for supporting But as we were saying about rabies in Asia The reason it's still such serious business First, 99% of human rabies cases on these contact with a rabid dog. Much of the world doesn't have rabid dogs them because dogs are mainly pets, and they 99% of human rabies cases on these continents with a rabid dog. Much of the world doesn't have rabid dogs them because dogs are mainly pets, and they A country such as the US has a widespread street dogs there, whereas if you go to a into one of the estimated 500,000 strays. Head to Thailand, and stray dogs walk up and In India, stray dogs, a total of 60 million street. It would be hard to vaccinate them all since The second reason why so many people die of not have easy access to the rabies shot if It also should be said that in both Asia and under 15. That's because kids are either not able many kids do, they'll walk right up to a give it a slap on the head. So, the vast majority of rabies cases are the list of rabid animals that have bitten donkey, horse, pig, rabbit, kudu, goat, cattle, as old boots honey badger. In the US, it's a totally different matter, Since the street dog population is small to worry about. Like the guy in the intro, it's wild animals rabies. Many cases of rabies deaths reported annually contenders are cattle, wolves, mongoose, coyotes, Of the US deaths that have happened over the that was on home soil. Later we'll show how traveling Americans All warm-blooded mammals can get rabies, but the main culprits in the continents of Asia You can't get rabies from a fish, a bird, It's also extremely uncommon in small mammals, Rabbits don't get it often, either. Before any of you Americans watching this should know that you're probably safe. About 60,000 Americans each year get what's aka, the rabies shot. We'll also talk about this later, as there supposedly horrendous shot, making it sound News flash, it's not. Whether you're in Jaipur, Johannesburg, want to know how to avoid rabies. Firstly, for all of you viewers who live where rabies is not stroking or slapping the local But how do you know if an animal is sick with The good thing about mammals is they tend a caterpillar or a cockroach. Rabid mammals tend to act and look strange. You might have heard that they become a bit the case. And sure, they might foam at the mouth or case. Sometimes they will become timid or move slower, Once they're acting very lethargic or becoming showing. There's an incubation period with rabies, weeks to four months but has been known to It all depends on how close the bite is to When the virus reaches the nervous tissue, It also depends on how severe the bite is We keep saying "bite" because bites usually else might do it. Rabies is spread through the saliva, so the without a bite is very low, but not impossible. We suggest if you have an open wound or a dog, or any street dog for that matter, take As you'll see soon, the virus can also get A rabid animal most likely to bite you or Rabies. This is when the animal is very excitable stones or chewing on car tires. There's also Dumb Rabies. Dumb rabies is when the animal suffers from Its face will distort, and swallowing will The animal might look like it's had a stroke, will die. So, rather than growling at you and getting corner as its body slowly breaks down. If you see a dog in the street in this condition, We found an article in an English-language the Veterinarian Bureau of Animal Hygiene street that looks rabid, "Just cut off its Here at the Infographics Show, we'd say Still, the doctor in Thailand knew what rabies why he was perhaps so hardcore. If you do get bitten by a stray dog or a wild the bite with soap and water right away. This might save you, but you should still It will then be decided if you need a rabies The faster you get to a professional, the Remember, when the symptoms show, you aint videos again. While the virus is still in the incubation Even so, if you want the utmost safety, you least 72 hours, of you being bitten just to The longer you wait, the higher the risk. Ok, let's now talk about the shot. In the past, it wasn't pleasant. Rabies medication normally consisted of around stomach. That was decades ago, though. Nowadays, you'll get four vaccinations, plus you'll be given some human rabies immune The shots will come at intervals, day 0, 3, They might hurt a little bit, just like any and are usually only headache, nausea, or hives. Basically, there's no need to fear the shot. As we said, it would be ideal to get it as can be 100% effective if given within ten The problem is most people who get bitten at the hospital when it's too late. Now comes the scarier part of the show. Rabies is not a whole lot of fun in terms a victim. The virus, usually passed through the saliva through a wound, and then make its way to aka the peripheral nervous system. It then travels like a time bomb into the cases, an inflamed spinal cord. In both cases, you will soon cease to exist The strange thing is, while this process may, been known to take years. So, some people might have walked around normally rabies, probably thinking, "Damn, I knew We found an academic paper whose first line rabies viral encephalitis in a 48-year-old historically suspected to be more than 20 This was in Goa, India. The man turned up at the hospital in a delirious He died a few hours later. This poor guy was a dog lover. It's thought he came into contact with rabies when he took two mangled street dog corpses While blood is not infectious, he was somehow The CDC says infectious material can be "tears, fluids." This was a very unusual case, although the who went to live in Australia and died of We found more literature on rabies that told in 30% of the cases, 31 to 90 days in 54% and in only 1% of the cases more than a year. Now let's talk about the symptoms in humans. The first stages are just a general crappy If you have a wound, it might burn, itch, Things soon get worse. Just like an animal, you might become very You might hallucinate. You might develop a fear of water (hydrophobia), swallowing. Just the thought of water can make the throat This might also cause you to have a fear of could cause painful spasms. You could become aggressive. This is why you might be tied down. It doesn't mean you're angry. You're just confused. Rabies affects the parts of the brain responsible And yes, it's possible to froth at the mouth. Saliva production increases with rabies. Why? Because the virus wants to survive and prosper, on. After all that, you'll likely die of cardio-respiratory The first phase of symptoms called the prodromal into the acute neurologic period, which also So, this nightmare is often quite prolonged. You'll wish you were dead if, indeed, you're make a wish. What we just described was you getting furious of dumb rabies, which might also be called Paralytic rabies is not as nightmarish. You just gradually become paralyzed like a An academic paper in Thailand described a It said, "He had a stiff neck, generalized upper limbs and grade III in lower limbs) response] of both knee and ankle jerks, and These symptoms gradually worsened, and he Slowly but surely, your whole body goes limp, We think this sounds much more preferable it, only 20% of humans get the dumb kind. Furious rabies also has a kind of positive if you'd enjoy it. With furious rabies in humans, there have men. This has something to do with how rabies affects A paper in the National Institutes of Health desire, involuntary erections, and in some rate of one per hour." Talk about going out on your shield! Let's now have a look at some more individual and symptoms. In 2009, a paper was published in the US that construction worker who went to a hospital At first, he felt pain and numbness in both his body. He was sweating a lot and felt really, really You should now know that this guy has about He soon started having muscle spasms when Tick-tock went the clock of life, but there case. In the same paper, there was the case of a the hospital sweating like hell. He was also scared of water and breezes and he was lucid and talking. The thing is, with these two guys, there were were lucid enough to tell doctors they had ever, as far as they could tell. But get this, patient one had two months before a dog." Canine karma had seemingly breached this man's The paper added: where he first extracted all the teeth with He mentioned he did this as a preventive measure of rabid dogs in his neighborhood." The second guy butchered and killed a cat as "rua man." The guy admitted that before he killed the in the dark in the corner meowing. Both guys got rabies from the dead animals. Somehow the infectious material got into them. Both of them became progressively worse and The paper said, "The point of entry of the removal and preparation of the dog's and cat's infectious rabies virus." The paper then used some brainy words to say We guess the moral to this story is don't There have also been similar cases of rabies China, according to that paper. We also had a look at reports of US cases. Most were from bats inside the US, but there traveling abroad and then showing rabies symptoms The cases happened from 2003 to 2018. There were 43 in all, and 40 people died because The data included: Male, 64, bite, dog-mongoose, Puerto Rico. 2004. Male, 41, bite, dog, Haiti. Male, 2, bite, dog, Philippines. 2009. Male, 42, bite, dog, India. 2010. Male, 19, bite, dog, Mexico. 2011. Male, 40, bite, dog, Brazil. 2014, Male, 28, bite, dog, Guatemala. Some of you might've seen the pattern here. If you don't want rabies, keep as far waway Although it seems that only men have gotten almost incurable disease, but they were all woman who died after being bitten by a street What's surprising is four of the people organ transplant. The donor had died of rabies, but that hadn't There have since been calls to check organ In one separate case, a US Air Force recruit had killed him. He then donated his heart, kidneys, and liver all got rabies. In this case, all three were treated with luck. Now back to the start. What happened to the guy who woke up at night He went into the hospital and had three rabies Even so, according to a paper, he "developed with excessive right eye-lacrimation." He then got worse. He couldn't swallow. The weakness increased, and he died 15 days This shouldn't have happened, of course, business. A study on the matter said this was the "first cell-culture vaccine in the Western Hemisphere a confirmed exposure." Just rotten luck, we guess. Anyway, he was 84, so his body might not have There was a second case that was similar. This time it was an 80-year-old guy in Illinois you not, with a bat sucking on his neck! If that were us, we'd have run downstairs guy just shrugged it off. He even refused to get the jabs. One of the reasons is he kept bats. He loved and trusted his bats. He might also have been rather stubborn. A month later, he had intense neck pain and He also had trouble swallowing and speaking. He died soon after. The Lake County Health Department Executive in people are rare in the United States; however, fatal." Now for a happier tale. When someone goes to the hospital with rabies even though it's a bit like trying to win Both of the previously discussed cases from were both put in an induced coma and pumped try to quell the disease raging through them. This is in line with something called the Does it work? Well, kind of. It's worked for one person in the entire a miracle. She is Jeanna Giese, who was bitten by a bat The bat had been flying through the church In what is possibly one of the most ironic bat with her good old prayer book. The bat was soon out for the count, or so When she picked it up by the wings, it started a bush outside, it took a bite of her finger. This Christian bat abuser then went home and to realize her finger felt numb and was tingling. She just left it, though. Two days later, she wanted to throw up, and That's when she went to the hospital. She wrote in a story, "By the time I got I was asked to stand on one leg, but I couldn't When she told them about assaulting an innocent doctors said, oh my God. They told her parents she probably only had This was a bit of an exaggeration. The doctors should watch more Infographics One doctor told her he was going to wing it, antiviral drugs. He gave her regular shots of ketamine, too, high doses, can actually make a person look A week later, Jeanna came out of her K-hole person in the world to survive rabies after What the amazing doctor, Dr. Rodney Willoughby, Protocol. It's the only treatment that's ever worked become symptomatic. It took many weeks for Jeanna to recover, improved. Even so, a decade later, she still has some She was still able to tell stories about her have a problem with bats." Amen to that. Now you need to watch a video about how something of Civilization (Century by Century)." Or, have a look at "Viruses That Were Actually