- A lot of atheists I know would say they don't believe in miracles. - They actually believe in five miracles, the miracle of the origin of the universe, and the origin of stars, and the origin of life, the origin of the diversity of life, and then the origin of meaning, If you believe that your intellect came from a series of accidents, why do you trust your thoughts? The origin of coded information on the DNA is the single biggest problem. We're promised, if we seek, we will find. This is amazingly good news been told there's no purpose to life. - Atheist like Richard Dawkins ridiculed Christians saying they believe in something like the What do you say to that? Don? - Jess. You are a senior scientist, with Creation Ministries international, and you've been speaking for 29 years on the creation evolution issues. But in particular, that's called &quot;The Five Now, I'm pretty sure a lot they don't believe in miracles. So I was wondering, can you tell us a bit about what you mean? - Yes, they say they but, in fact, they have to because how do you explain the origin of the universe, the origin of life, and these things? They actually believe in 'cause miracles actually Well, and magic has a So they don't even have a So it's pretty incredible, really, some of the things they have to believe to not believe in a creator. So Christians believe in miracles. We have a miracle worker. They believe in miracles - Okay, how does that work? - Well, there's five miracles, which I talk about in my article, the miracle of the origin of the universe, and then the origin of stars, and the origin of life, the origin of the diversity of life, and then the origin of meaning, So these are the five broad categories. Within those, there's but there's five basically that they have to believe in. - Yeah, all right. So if we were to look at those big five in a little bit more - Well, the origin of the universe. - Universe first. origin of the universe. The universe, where'd it come from? Well, it had a beginning, so it must have come from nothing. So Lawrence Krauss, a well-known atheistic cosmologist in &quot;A Universe from Nothing.&quot; And the subtitle is &quot;Why There is Something And so he claims to can come about from nothing, but his nothing is not nothing, actually. It's actually a quantum and it's a physical something, in which case it can't be eternal. And so he hasn't really explained the origin of everything anyway. But this is a miracle that can produce the whole universe So this is the whole the whole shebang that came about by this process. So on the front cover of there was a summary of the Big Bang idea. And it goes like this. &quot;The universe burst into zero, nada. As it got bigger, it became that came from absolutely nowhere. How is this possible? Ask Alan Guth.&quot; His theory of inflation So Alan Guth is one of the and so he's invented Now inflation has added to the Big Bang, and inflation actually to the very miracle of the beginning of everything from nothing. And so it explains nothing. It just adds more miracles. Inflation is the idea the universe sort of rapidly expanded, many orders of magnitude, for a tiny fraction of a second. So what started it? That's a miracle. How can it expand faster That's a miracle. What stopped it? That's another miracle. So we've got three more We've got four miracles. We haven't even got to the Now, this is what we're - So things coming from nothing. How do they explain that? And it feel like it's - Well, this is a problem. I mean, Lawrence Krauss sort to trying to sort of claim he's got nothing that makes everything, but his nothing is not nothing. So, really, what it boils down to is this. We're here. How did we get here? Well, stuff happens. There's gotta be some If you're an atheist, you have to have some other explanation. That's what they're on about. - Okay. - All right, so beginning of the universe. What about stars? - Well, then you have the universe, but then stars formed and galaxies formed. And how do stars form? There's two phases of star the ones made of hydrogen, So these are the hydrogen stars, and they supposedly form But the problem is if you've got gases produced by the Big Bang expanding out, so you've got this massive gases do expand. I mean, you put gas and it goes. It expands. So how do you get stars forming Big problem. So they *invoked this idea which has magical properties, which is distributed just right, and just the amount of strength to actually attract hydrogen together and attract enough of it so to form a gravitational force to attract more hydrogen. And hey, presto, we've got stars. So this is the sort of and then you've got the problem. We've got stars with heavier elements, like our sun, for example, but has lithium, beryllium, all these elements in the periodic table. Where'd they come from? Well, the theory goes that there were hydrogen They're called supernovas. And these exploding stars, there were enough of them that the force by this exploding stars forced hydrogen into And so all the lithium, beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, all the heavier elements And so you just have to have together in the same space to actually form billions of stars. This is really another huge miracle. So we've got miracle upon miracle here, and inventing imaginary stuff. I mean, the dark matter, for example, there's no evidence exists at all. They've been looking for it for decades. And there've been all sorts trying to prove it exists. Nothing. - And yet, I still hear many There is a bit of this is... - This is the explanation. Yeah, that's right. This is the explanation. what evidence have they got for it? Zilch. And so these are more latching onto to try and explain - And miracles, that sound like they need a designer behind them, a more intelligent force have that happen because - Ah, I but you can't go there. (chuckles) - Okay. So what about universe the origin of life? - Yeah, well, this is a huge conundrum. The origin of life. I mean, back when Darwin's days, he could imagine the 'cause you look down a microscope and it was just a blob and there wasn't anything known about the biochemistry of life. But today, we just know so much about even the simplest living thing and it defies the idea it But this is what the origin is the origin of... If you take the simplest bacterium that can reproduce itself, in other words, the simplest life, how much information written on the DNA? You're talking about a in the simplest life. So not only do you need the coding system to code the information, you need to be able to read the code and generate all these enzymes, and things that make life about 500 of them minimum, and these are absolutely And so, Paul Davies is an astrobiologist, and astro is space, I mean, how much biology Not much. - And still. - So they do a lot of theorizing, and Paul Davies is pretty good at the theorizing part of things. And he said, &quot;How did stupid atoms spontaneously write their own software?&quot; 'Cause that's what we're like a computer program. &quot;Nobody knows. There is no known law of physics able to create information from nothing.&quot; But if you're not gonna believe in a supernatural intelligent and who actually designed the information, where does it come from? You have to believe another miracle. And this is basically what it is. The scientific knowledge grows every day to underline that life is too complex for it to be explained which is the only thing the atheist has, is a chance origin of life. - I often wonder if Darwin - Would he be a Darwinist? Yeah. - See this complexity that we can see now, what would he say? - Well, I think... and in fact, I wrote an &quot;If Darwin was Alive Today, And what was my conclusion? Yes, he would be because his belief It was driven by his desire - His belief wasn't driven by science. - [Don] Yeah. - Interesting. So we have life, the origin but what about, as we've been this incredible complexity? - Well, you not just got microbes, you've got the huge I mean, from earwigs to elephants and mites to mango trees, everything is supposed to come about by this naturalistic biological evolution from some bacterium or a couple of bacteria and for almost a hundred which are accidental changes So take the bacterium and you have an accidental change that, as it reproduces and an accidental change can change some of the letters on the DNA. So they've called it mutations, and those mutations are supposed to create all the information that all the diversity of life on earth. And so we have features We have nerves, and we have skin, and we have all sorts of We produce hair, all sorts of stuff. So where does all the information from making all that come from? Well, accidental changes in the bacterium, eventually generated, da, da, da, all the way through to and everything else. This is the story. A natural selection's supposed by selecting the beneficial mutations. So this is a fundamental problem today that the complexity of life and what we know about living things shows that this doesn't work. That mutations and natural I mean, if you just look at the difference between Chimp-like creatures supposed over 7 million years, right? It's actually been shown The mutations and natural selection, even making assumptions can't explain it. So again, they have to believe in miracles to believe the diversity of life. It's more magic. it's more, well, stuff happens. We're here. It must have happened type of thing. And there's a growing appreciation amongst the people who that Neo-Darwinism, the mutations natural selection story just doesn't stack up. Doesn't stack up. - And as that becomes a bit more apparent, are people trying to accommodate Are they trying to invent - Well, yes. Behind the scenes, there's invent a new way of explaining but I don't believe I'll The more we know about it, the more life looks like it's designed. It's not a product of natural processes. And the diversity of life is just amazing. God had fun. - Yeah, you don't have I remember just reading the recent Creation Ministries magazine and looking at the weaver, the burden, just the amazing nest and the way that it works as to create all of the cushioning inside and to make it all safe and Just incredible complexity - Everything you look at is like that. And the further you dig, It's not as if you dig and that makes sense of some natural process. The more you dig, the involved in this design of these things. - So the origin of the fact that we can love, how do we explain the origin? - Well, this is a problem because a fig tree It doesn't produce apples and physical processes don't produce... physical and chemical processes produce physical and chemical outcomes. They don't produce intelligence, and love, and altruism, and morality. And so where do these things come from? And so this is a fundamental Now, there's an American by the name of Thomas Nagel, and a few years ago he It's called &quot;Mind and Cosmos,&quot; the book. And in that, he spelled the whole idea of doesn't explain mind and morality. And let me quote from him. It's worth quoting actually what he says. This is a commentator talking about the book and Commentator says. &quot;His,&quot; or Nagel's, &quot;working assumption is, in today's intellectual climate, radical. if the materialist neo-Darwinian orthodoxy contradicts common sense, then this is a mark against the orthodoxy, not against common sense. When a chain of reasoning we should double check before we give up on the obvious.&quot; And the obvious is things are designed. They're not actually a And C.S. Lewis, the famous professor of English in He's a famous convert from atheism, and he basically said 'Cause Neo-Darwinism, evolution, the whole idea of the it's a basically accidental process. So how can an accident actually generate a meaningful outcome? So if our thoughts are a product of materialism, of accidents, then why should we trust our thoughts? So this is a fundamental is if you believe that your brain, everything came why do you trust your thoughts? Fundamental problem. - The implications of that. If I think through them for a second, and I wonder how many people well, if these things are an accident, it's a bit scary where that leads. - Indeed. And if you think about it, it ends up being very destructive, very destructive. - Could someone actually... Could that lead to things like having a very bleak view of life on earth and even depression or - Absolutely. And you look up some and they'll tell you that life When you die, you become fertilizer. They're the F's of atheism. You know the three F's of atheism? - What are they? - Life is a fluke, so our existence is a fluke. Our life is a farce, and when you die, you become fertilizer. That's it. - It's very bleak. - Very bleak. Very bleak. - Okay. - When I think about the and sometimes students that and when you start to talk they would vehemently they believe that life is an accident. They would say, &quot;Oh, no, no, no, no,&quot; but they haven't taken the next step to think through what that actually means. - They haven't thought That's right. - And the look on their faces when they realize where that leads... - Yeah. It's crushing. It is crushing. Yeah, and many people today have been misled by this sort of thinking. And really what is the purpose of life? - So it really does look like it requires quite a bit - Yes, so I think it takes and ultimately belief as the cause of the universe, and ultimately the cause including us, our lives, our loves, our everything, as believing in magic at of everything that In fact, I don't have enough - Yep, I would agree. - Yeah, so by not believing in God, they've put themselves into a traditional philosophical corner. And Romans 1:21 in the Bible says that when people deny the deny that creator God exists, they end up with futile thinking. And we've seen plenty of this in talking about these atheist - What would you say to in light of this, if I and this idea of Him being real, and Him being the reason I feel like I'd still be taking on a bit of an emotional crutch. It's kinda like it's too convenient or too good to be true sort of thing. What would you say to that, Don? - Well, if you're lame, And the perspective of the we rebelled against God, and So it's arrogance to say, &quot;I'm which is ultimately what they're saying. So God reaching out to And so it's to acknowledge If you don't acknowledge you need help, well, God can't help you. - We don't really like Do you think- We're all sort of afflicted with pride. We've like to think we're and we don't need help. But ultimately, yes, I mean, to reach out to God and to seek his help is to acknowledge you need help. - All right, Don, we're gonna do something a I'm actually gonna pull out a timer, and I'm going to fire some and I'm going to give you one minute to answer each of these questions. I'd love to be able to... Especially as a teacher, I think, with students who to some of these, to be able to have a quick answer as well as then maybe you can go a little bit further. So you ready? (laughs) - Go for it. So I'm gonna start the clock. Atheists like Richard Dawkins ridiculed Christians saying they believe in something like the What do you say to that? - Well, the Flying Spaghetti Monster was a figment of the by the name of Bobby Henderson And no one believes it actually exists, and there's zero evidence it exists, and that contrasts with the for which there's abundant evidence. I mean, we just think about the fine-tuned nature of the universe, which enables life to exist. That alone speaks about the fact that there is where there's no evidence for - Oh, well done. You did that one in time. All right, next one. We're gonna start the clock. Today's evolutionists has nothing to do with evolution. Are they right? - It's always been a part of evolution, and it's only in recent times that anybody's tried to claim In fact, the University and their biology 101 course on evolution includes chemical evolution, which is the origin of life. And every school textbook includes the origin of So this is just a cop out. Why are they doing this? Because the origin of life's It is such a huge problem. They can't explain it, so - All right, well done. Next one. Atheists say they can What do you say to that? - Well, by what standard do I mean, how do you get what ought to be? You shouldn't torture babies There's no basis for any moral law unless there is a moral law giver, which is the creator God of the Bible. - So if they just say, &quot;It just feels right that this or &quot;It just feels like we just know.&quot; - Well, I can say maybe I feel Why am I wrong? - All right, next one. - By the way, I don't. (Don laughs) - Another one. So we've talked about this, Atheists claim that evolution explains the diversity of life. No need for God. What do you reckon? - Maybe that was reasonable in the past, but today with what we know and the incredible that's no longer tenable. For example, just about every organism has genes which are unique to it, as many as 20% of the genes In other words, that haven't been derived from some other genes in another organism. And this is a recent and it's a fundamental that evolution explains It just doesn't work. All right, next question. A major design argument for Can you tell me more about that? - There's actually many which have to be just as they are to make it possible for life to exist. For example, there's very technical things like the ratio of the mass So what's the relevance of that? Well, if it was slightly there'd be no atoms and no molecules. And of course, no out of no So the electromagnetic are just right to allow suns And our star has just the right mass. If it was bigger, it'd be unstable, smaller, it'd be unstable. We would not have the stability and so on. And so there are many of these things that are just right for life on earth, and this is a problem for the - Why can't stars form in a Big Bang scenario? - Well, you got the problem and very fast expansion but the gases have to come And so this is a fundamental problem. They've constructed scenarios and *invoked dark matter, but this is an invention if you like, to actually And then you've got all the So it's a fundamental problem for the whole Big Bang scenarios - All right, another question. What is the single biggest that life has come from non-life? - The origin of coded is the single biggest problem because coded information by physics and chemistry. It has to come about from intelligence. That's the fundamental problem. - Can we talk more about that in terms of I can look at an amazing car and I'm pretty sure the engineers would be very unhappy that had just come about by chance. So how come when it comes to are we happy to say that - Ah, but there's a rub. You see, a car can be but life can't be explained It's only explanation is and that's somewhere they don't wanna go. So that's the fundamental problem. It's the implication that this must be the product of a supernatural Not that it doesn't show intelligence. Absolutely, it does. And so that's the basic problem. - So we're just gonna stop in the rapid questions 'cause I just wanna pull You talked about the fact that with this coded information that we have, that gives us everything that exists. Why is that a problem? - Just to illustrate what if you think about the English language, we have 26 letters in the space. And in those 26 letters in the So when you read it as but a random arrangement of those letters doesn't have any meaning. The only way you can get those letters organized into meaningful information is that an intelligence Now here's the other problem. If you read Chinese and you've you're not gonna know what it means. And it's like that with the cells, they have coded information, and then they have a reading system. So the DNA code is the right code, and then they have a reading So just like you're reading English, you're decoding the information. There's nothing about the ink which has any meaningful information. It's the arrangement which only And so it is with the There is no physical chemical process that can create coded information. It only comes from intelligence. So that's a fundamental problem for the whole naturalistic idea or that the diversity of from some natural process, - And we know that those DNA instructions are incredibly complex, but then the fact that they're and read to produce the that's incredibly complex as well. it's so overwhelmingly complex. - It's complexity upon complexity, but the fundamental thing cannot arise by physics and chemistry. It uses physics and chemistry, just like the pixels on your screen or the ink on your paper. There's physics and chemistry involved in the actual conveying of the medium through which the But the information itself is not a physical and chemical property. It's a property of intelligence. - And that seems obvious to me that the complexity of life against everything happening by accident, but why are so many still even though if they were to they'd probably agree that is a good argument? - Well, I think a lot of That's the first thing. They've never never been caused to think about it differently. They've only heard one side of the story, and it's been convenient to accept it because to accept that there is a creator who made everything, there are certain implications of that. And that is, well, if the creator made me, that means I'm answerable Maybe there's eternity, maybe there's things I wanna live my life my way. I don't wanna be answerable to anybody. And so this is a fundamental driver for the whole atheist enterprise, which tries to explain is they don't want God to rule over them. - And I would probably say that I'm noticing as students come through the world is teaching them and it's all about what they think, and they can even really decide And so what would you it's being drilled into them that just think what you wanna think and mesh it all together - Yeah, I think we have to try and lead them through the process of thinking about what that and the meaning of life and their future to draw it out so they understand the implications of where they're going, because they're not pretty. - All right, maybe we'll So I'm gonna fire a few So if I put the timer on again, there's a question that says, many people would say biological evolution is overwhelming. What would you say to that? - Well, I think they I think there's two types of people here. There's ones who haven't thought about it. And there are those who and their religious beliefs are actually driving their In other words, their And so if you start to dive into it and look at the complexity of life and what they're trying to explain, the evidence for creation, for divine design is overwhelming. And so, yeah. it's a necessity for the atheistic and the secular political That's what it's about. - Interesting, get rid of God. - Yeah. - All right, another question. We see new species emerging all the time. So how can you possibly say We see natural selection. We see mutations. We're told this is evolution. - So natural selection but evolution depends on mutations to create all this new information, and the mutations aren't up to it. Mutation's accidental changes doesn't create new genes, new features that weren't there before, and that's a fundamental problem. So speciation happens, I don't don't have a problem but these aren't evolution. We need fundamental in invention of new features like skin like nerves where they Mutations can't create that, and that's the only mechanism they have. - All right, another question. Isn't the critics position - I believe it is. C.S. Lewis, former atheist a reluctant convert, I might say, He said, I must quote &quot;I see no reason for this is the accidents &quot;should be able to give of all the other accidents.&quot; So our mind and our thinking He said, &quot;it's like expecting taken by the splash when should give you a correct account of how the jug was made (Jess chuckles) So this is a fundamental problem, is trying to get meaning, purpose, organization out of accidents, which is basically what - All right, I think we'll stop the rapid fire questions So Don, I am a teacher, and I've got classes of who would love to be able to understand some of these big questions in particular, this idea of the five miracles And I was wondering, is there a way that you could summarize these five miracles about the the beginning of stars, the origin of the diversity of life, and the origin of intelligence. If we were to go at those say a 15, 16-year-old, how would we position that? - I often use the analogy to say, look, the chair you're sitting on, it just made itself, nobody made it. It just happened. You'd say- - &quot;You need a psychiatrist.&quot; - Yep. - But, basically, these people are arguing that the whole universe, but the whole universe made itself, that life made itself, the stars made themselves, the diversity of life just happened, that intelligence and just came out of the soup. It's an inadequate explanation, like saying the chair has made itself. This is an inadequate explanation for the origin of these things, which are fundamental So... - My students would say, &quot;Well, yeah, duh? The chair did not make itself.&quot; - That's right, so why would you believe the universe could make itself? I mean, that's a much The whole universe just made itself. Come on, seriously? But that's what you have to believe If you don't wanna believe in a creator. So the origin of of life, everybody understands you look at a text on a page, read a book, the information, where did it come from? Did it come from an accident No, it came from intelligence. Unless it's incoherent, you might wonder about the - Yep, and stars? - Yeah, and stars, I mean, you've got this incredibly formed from expanding gases. How does that work? Basically, they have to resort to miracles to try and explain, but miracles without a miracle worker, they're basically trying to explain things without any sufficient cause. That's the fundamental problem. The cause for your I mean, if you said to &quot;Mum, where'd I come from?&quot; suddenly, there's embarrassed silence, and they're saying, &quot;What do I say?&quot; And they say, &quot;Oh, we found You think, &quot;sorry, that doesn't cut it.&quot; This is basically the whole evolutionary is I found you under a - Which we would laugh at. - Which is not not coherent. - And my students would say, &quot;Well, surely it's more complex than that. Don't you know, Miss, that believe this? So surely it's true. - The majority believes something really doesn't prove it's true. It's not a good argument. The best argument is, what's the evidence? And the evidence doesn't that everything can make itself. So it's possible that so many people that are very intelligent and they are professionals in their field could still not be following the evidence. - Absolutely, and it's but that's the case. You get a bandwagon where people basically are forcing the In fact, the whole evolutionary thing is really a philosophical view because it's a view about the past where people weren't So, basically, it's imagining how everything came to be in the past, the unobserved past, nobody saw it happen. You can't do experiments on it. How does it even qualify as being science? - Because science means it needs to be- - Do experiments. Test things, experiments. What sort of experiment can you do on the origin of the universe? None. What sort of experiment you None. So it's not really science. At the bottom, it's actually philosophy, an atheistic, materialistic philosophy pretending to be science. - Pretending to be science, 'cause most people would It has to be true. - Yeah. They've bought the lie. - So, Don, if we don't and then believe the five miracles and the rest that they're believing, where to from here? - Well, the Bible says And what does that mean? That means that we can relate to God. We were made for relationship with God. And a lot of what we're talking about here is people trying to live life without God. And this is called sin actually. The Bible calls it sin to actually try to live We're actually created to live with God. And so to try to live without Him, that's what the Bible calls sin, and we need to be forgiven for that, and that's what the Bible's about. And so the Bible says, &quot;Seek the Lord while He may be found.&quot; In other words, we're promised, if we seek, we will find. If we seek the Lord, we'll find the Lord, and we'll find God. And when we find Him, enter then we find meaning and purpose in life. Life has a purpose. Our purpose is to be in Now, the atheists are right, many of them have said this much that the implication of is there is no purpose to life. That is correct. If they are correct, that is correct. But here's the thing, 'cause we're made in the image of God. We're made for relationship with God. And so this gives life is to know God, to enjoy Him for eternity. That's what it's about. - It sounds like a much I almost would go so far as to say, and I've heard people say before, what is there to lose? If you wanna try God and you wanna take Him if you seek Him, you'll find Him, as opposed to close the - Well, Jesus said in John 10:10, &quot;I have come to give you life abundantly.&quot; Life abundantly, and that's sort of so different to what most people sort that religion is about kill joy stuff. But Jesus said, &quot;I came abundant life.&quot; And so this is amazing, for a society which has been told there's no purpose to life. - Yep, as you say, if we are the being who has created and designed us, then it makes sense that He would be able to give us something that because He knows how He's designed that. - Yeah. - He knows how we tick. Right through, He knows how we tick, and He knows what we need. - Thank you so much, Don, the five miracles that atheists believe, and following through with in terms of what we're really created for. So thank you. - Thanks, Jess. - And if you haven't already, don't forget to subscribe for more content like this. (gentle music)