Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with This time, we're enjoying scenic, and floatable delights of one of my favorite Burgundy. Thanks for joining us. Burgundy is calm, where nature is as sophisticated The traditions If you're looking for the quintessential you'll find it In this show, we'll appreciate visit a medieval hospice, build a barrel, slurp escargots, ponder medieval monasticism, then drop in and explore the Burgundian France is the biggest country in western Europe. We'll head southeast of Paris to explore the region using the town of Beaune to explore its canals, and historic sites. Burgundy, like much of France, dug in the early 200 years ago, provided the cheapest way With the help of locks, you could actually clear across France, to the Atlantic. Today, trains and trucks and canals are for relaxing -- an art form in which Whether you're cruising in a big or a small the basic experience a lazy glide by pastoral scenes. This time, I'm joined and co-author my favorite Francophile, I love slowing down. Cruising is the best way It forces you Steves: And Steve's family as we learn how the French, who invented our modern concept are on to something good Oh, my. The canal-side lane, built as an Industrial Age is ideal for jogging, Boats come with bikes, and the pace is relaxing enough Your ride is punctuated By going from lock to lock, boats can gently &quot;climb,&quot; over the rolling terrain. Each lock is a treat. Attendants who live are friendly and always ready Some locks are automated. [ beeping ] Others involve a little [ accordion playing ] Full-service barges with a captain and crew cooking, and guiding. Boats have comfy state rooms, all the comforts you'd expect and you'll invariably some of the very best Ah, here's Our day on the canal three generations, the scenery coming to us, a capable skipper, and not a care [ laughter ] The city of Beaune for exploring Burgundy. The townscape, lassoed is as French You'll feel comfortable in this prosperous where life centers and consumption -- of the prestigious The medieval monks laid the groundwork this town's prosperity. The monks cultivated wine, and the dukes cultivated wealth. To enjoy any small French town it's worth visiting In Beaune, that's Saturday, and the town is thriving. We're on a mission -- for a lunch at Steve's And here in Burgundy, a pile of snails. You buy your snails Bonjour, monsieur. So, hey, we're in This is the place Two ways of doing snails. The easy way -- like you see them Already made, already ready to go. Or you do it yourself by buying a jar and the shells separately, and you stuff them [ speaking French ] 30 euros, Rick. 30 euros. Fork it over. Merci beaucoup. Steves: While Beaune's is the colorful town itself, it does have its Hospices de Beaune, a medieval charity hospital. Six centuries ago, by two terrible events -- the Great Plague a drawn-out battle that embroiled all of Burgundy. In the early 1400s, 3/4 of Beaune's population Amid all this squalor, Nicolas Rolin, because he could tax the people. Concerned for the destiny Rolin attempted to buy by building It was completed The colorful glazed-tile roof established recognized as typically The tiles, which last 300 years, once to harden, then to burn in and finally This largest room for the poorest patients. Rolin, who believed deserved dignity, provided each mug, bowl, and plate. The hospice was not People came here Care was more The far end of the ward Patients could attend mass And also from their beds, the powerful symbolism that stood upon the altar -- in an adjacent room. In Roger van der Weyden's of the Last Judgment, Jesus presides flanked by the lily of mercy and the sword of judgment. The rainbow promises And the jeweled globe symbolizes of Christianity's message. As four angels to wake the dead, very much in control, which souls are heavy with sin. Mary and the apostles as they emerge But notice how both Michael are expressionless. At this point, and their loved ones The intricate detail in the 15th century. Study the faces You can almost hear and gnashing of teeth. The smaller ward was for the wealthy patients. Since they were more likely to get the best available they were more likely Tools of the trade Amputation saws, pans for bloodletting, and syringes The decor in this room A series of Baroque paintings that Jesus performed. Patients filled these beds as late as 1982. Back out on the street, it seems life is good, on the here and now. A common theme is the region's Every other shop seems Even the town's historic is dedicated to the notion a good nose In this delightful the complex fragrances can be experienced. Raspberries. Citron. The forest. Spices. In Burgundy, is a life skill Your visit to Burgundy about every aspect Even traditional At this cooperage, is kept alive, crafting barrels with a mix and traditional techniques. Workmen use steam to bend oak staves Vintners know and the characteristics contribute to the personality Burgundy is a big part of why France is famous The rolling hills are blanketed To the connoisseur, a visit here By car or bike, you can be immersed in the lush countryside and immaculate vineyards. To those versed in this road signs read From Beaune, from the heart of the vineyards Except for the rare the service roads of happy bikers. A bike route pieces together each which produces And signs make it clear to drop in, and pick up In the village of Pommard, vineyards offer free tasting in wine appreciation Our hostess, Colette, is ready When you say, what do you mean I just mean Why? Why? Because we have which is so exceptional. So complex. What is &quot;terroir&quot;? The terroir, the character The combination, the perfect combination the earth character, the altitude, And each piece of land has got Steves: So that the quality can be different from here So different. So the soil looks actually It's so poor, but this It needs to suffer to produce Going down, among the stones and as they fight, a wonderful complexity Steves: How do you We name the wine never with the name We name the wine with the name It's the same grape It's all a paradise But lower down or here, Because of the earth. So you don't name the wine by the grape? In Burgundy. By the place. By the place, yes. Steves: So tasting Colette: Tasting are two You drink with food. You taste the wine, You begin We just raise it and look at it and admire Then you put your nose and you do the first nose. And you take here because then you aerate it, you just let the aromas And then you go Is it the same? Oh, the difference! Then you understand And then to put that in your mouth, that you have been waiting. And when it's in your mouth, because you are tasting you will chew the wine, You do like this. [ slurping ] And you spit out, because your stomach But what is important is that, you exhale because the zone behind your back nose is so sensitive to the aromas that you keep and you keep the bouquet much longer So even if you choose you can still enjoy Just exactly the same. Steves: The culture has deep historic roots. Within an hour's drive illustrating how the region the spiritual heart In the Middle Ages, the cradle of real This town of Cluny to a great monastery which, around the year 1100, actually vied with the Vatican to be the most important in all of Christendom. Much of today's old town on the scant ruins Until the present St. Peter's the church that stood here The Abbey of Cluny of Europe's first great international chain It was the headquarters the heart and an evangelical revival in the 11th and 12th centuries. In an era of particularly Cluny's abbots, of St. Benedict, and rallying point The success of the abbey has to a series of wise leaders, In fact, four of the six actually became saints. They answered not to kings but directly to the pope. They preached the principles and the art Piety -- they got people Shrewd fundraising -- they talked Europe's into willing their estates in return for perpetual prayer for the benefit of their needy From the springboard of Cluny of nearly a thousand monasteries from Rome to Scotland helping to kindle the establishment While Cluny peaked monasteries in general until the 18th century. Over time, Cluny's were tainted they had originally opposed. The once-dominant Cluny order by more austere monks, like the Cistercians The Abbey of Fontenay giving visitors a sense for monastic life It was founded in 1118 as a back-to-basics reaction of richer, Benedictine abbeys The Cistercians worked the simplicity in the first centuries Bernard created &quot;a horrible vast solitude&quot; where his monks could live like the desert fathers They strove to be separate And this required that these abbeys The movement spread, essentially By the year 1200, there were over 500 Cistercian monasteries The abbey church and built to St. Bernard's Latin cross floor plan. No colorful stained glass. Unadorned columns. Nothing to distract The lone statue is the 13th-century a reminder that the church An ethereal light still bathes Stairs lead from the church where the monks slept, Monastic life was Prayer, reading, work, One meal a day in the winter, Daily rations -- and a quarter-liter of wine. In spite of its isolation, Fontenay flourished for several centuries. According to &quot;wherever the wind blows, In the 13th century, ran what many consider Europe's The art of metal working after Rome fell Iron ore was melted down with the help The monks made and sold A stream was diverted or water-powered, hammers This technique, first used here, of industrial manufacturing Like mustard seeds carried the monks of medieval Burgundy but helped to germinate which led to the thriving Monks in Burgundy To experience the latest drop by the booming Christian Taize is an ecumenical welcoming Protestant, Orthodox, The uplifting ambience of mostly young European exploring their faith from the fast-paced is remarkable. The Taize community, welcomes visitors who'd like getting close to God and simple living. Meals are in keeping with the joyful simplicity At any given time, there are from about 100 countries, When the bells ring, and white-robed brothers file into the long, plain, Hallelujah Hallelujah Hallelujah Taize-style worship is a cycle of bible readings, meditative silence, and mesmerizingly beautiful &quot;enter together into the mystery [ singing hymn ] While monastic life in Burgundy Burgundian rural living A great way to experience that in the country. Throughout France, which rent by the week are part of a popular called the &quot;gites rurals.&quot; Steve's family owns They stay here and for the rest of the time, as part of the managed by a neighbor in the village. This is part to keep village life vital when young people are being For about half the price a gite comes fully cozy living room, and all immersed in the country charm or whichever part of France Gite living comes that's hard to find And part of the fun is going local Steve's wife, Karen, with the escargots we picked up Simply fill the shell with a lovingly created butter, tuck in the snail, and top with more of the mix. Pop in the oven, you make the family Steves: So you put it [ family chattering ] [ indistinct conversation [ sheep bleating ] Steves: Another dimension is its characteristic that stand royally atop hills, as if they still Chateau de la Rochepot Constructed near the end when castles were built it was completed during the Renaissance, as luxury homes. As a result, with an enchanting mix Rochepot is a little of both. Rooms, with their artifacts, give a peek into life back then. The door frames, are a reminder like medieval life itself, and far from the stony gray The kitchen is equipped that was state of the art The castle entertains, to the bottom of its well -- 200 feet. Way, way down. I hope you've enjoyed through the highlights I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, Au revoir.