Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS Around two and a half million years ago, a at a constellation familiar to her. She was confused because its brightest star Over around a day, it blazed to become brighter daytime. For weeks this young australopithecus and new celestial body. And then it faded and vanished entirely, leaving Since then, the stars have shifted into patterns that would be as unrecognisable to grandmother as her constellations would be to you. But maybe, relatively soon, astronomically share a celestial experience--the wonder and the Yad al-jawza - the hand of the giant in Arabic Tim Burton film to Betelgeuse. It's the bright red star on the shoulder It's a red supergiant--a star 11 times its life. The thing about supergiants is that we can't are. Betelgeuse could have a 100,000 years, or be travelling the short 640 light years between Probably more like the former, but recently In 2019 it dimmed dramatically for several understand was due to it coughing up obscuring It seemed to recover, but over the past several half again brighter than normal. Sadly, at least for astronomers, this is probably its regular 400-day brightness cycle. Our best estimates give years, and besides, a Betelgeuse supernova wouldn't be close enough to damage the earth. But these events remind us that our night a static thing. And we know a very visible supernova must know it because we find a layer of unstable floor and in the Antarctic snow and even on This must have been produced in a recent stellar We also see that the Sun inhabits a bubble carved out by supernova explosions over the Supernovae have lit up our sky recently on So how long before we get another? Which star will it be? And should we wish for it? Let's start by talking a little about the are much much more dangerous than others--as The deaths of massive stars result in type Is. We also call these core collapse supernovae, wait for it collapses. For a star like the Sun, when it's done puff out into a red giant, then go through its outer layers non-explosively leaving behind - a white dwarf. But stars around 8 times the have enough gravitational crush to fuse heavier elements--all the way up to iron. At that point, fusion ends and layered core stopping only when the innermost ball of iron This releases an explosion of neutrinos, that the surrounding layers back out. That's the supernova. Many neutrons are also blasted out, slamming heavy elements--including the iron-60 that The vast majority of the energy of a supernova these reach us they're diffuse, and just If a supernova went off in our vicinity, our a bit. Then the light would arrive. Energetic light--gamma rays, X-rays, as well This is when the star increases in brightness to Our atmosphere prevents the most dangerous of them intercepted by our ozone layer. But if the supernova is close enough, a lot a long time to recover. In that recovery period, a lot more ultraviolet ground, damaging surface life. Scientists estimate that the destruction of a mass-extinction event. But in order to do that a supernova would Lagging behind the wave of neutrinos and light which takes 100s to 1000s of years to reach This is potentially much more dangerous. That shockfront is a wave of particles, kinetic expanding supernova remnant. The magnetic fields act as a giant particle light speed. These become cosmic rays, and may ultimately Cosmic rays have an easier time penetrating a nearby supernova can bombard the planet for thousands of years. And the supernova doesn't have to be so close 30 to 50 light years to trigger a mass extinction, and the supernova type. This is the real kill-zone for a supernova. But they can still be dangerous from further For example, the pleistoscene supernova is away--just outside the kill zone. But there is evidence that many animals living at around that time, while deeper-dwelling This has been attributed to a massive increase Unlike most cosmic rays, this heavy cousin into water, causing damage to surface layers Cosmic rays can also alter atmospheric chemistry, 2.7 million years roughly corresponds to period of cooler climate compared to the previous We also call it the Ice Age with its periodic yet. It's highly plausible that the subtler effects of that ancient supernova So supernovae can influence the Earth even But there are ways to extend the kill In a study that came out in April this year, of supernova unpleasantness. As I mentioned, the quick blast of gamma rays damage at any distance likely for a future But in cases where the progenitor star was that gas can continue to radiate X-rays for explosion. Such a supernova could bake our ozone layer distances than a regular supernova - up to The other way to extend the kill-range is are beamed in a particular direction. If that direction is us we see a gamma ray We can see these from the other side of the thousand light years it can significantly These are much rarer than regular supernovae, every billion years or so. We've covered gamma ray bursts in another now. Today we're figuring out the prospects of Which we can now do, because we know the size Within 30 or so light years for death by cosmic for a long X-ray bake. Betelgeuse is 640 light years away, so no There are currently just a handful of stars day go supernova. The nearest is Spica at 220 LY. Spica is a blue giant and is just big enough But it's still burning hydrogen in its core, It's also too far to cause problems when Before you relax completely, there is an impending Just within the maximum range of dangerous This isn't a massive star that's about It's a regular hydrogen-burning star a bit more orbit with a white dwarf. Remember white dwarfs? Remnants of stars not massive enough to go When the living star in the IK Pegasi system to puff up. Its outer layers will start to stream onto When it reaches a critical mass--the Chandresekhar runaway fusion reaction will rip through the a type 1a supernova. If this were to happen at IK Pegasi's current comparable to the Pleistoscene supernova, time. Fortunately all of this is a couple of billion drifted to a much safer distance of a few So we seem to be safe for now, but if all stars a dying massive star or a feeding white dwarf the Sun. So how long before this happens? There are different ways to estimate this. One is by seeing how often this has happened There are historical, geological, and astronomical Milky Way. Historically, there was the one we saw in one observed by Johanne Kepler in 1604, and by Chinese and Arab astronomers in 1054 AD, Geologically there's the Pleistocene supernova, at around the 7 million years ago. Astronomically we see the local bubble, indicating years or so, and in that bubble there's stars. We can also look at the frequency of supernovae frequently because we're actively watching And the last way to make this estimate is galaxy and using our understanding of stellar All this put together, we get that a supernova every 50 years inside the Milky Way. Most of these are many thousands of light Supernovae occur in the 15-20 light years the order of a billion years or so--a similar These may have never happened, but it's could have been responsible for some of the history. Within the 30-50 light years of the cosmic-ray-death-zone, of a hundred million years or so, with a similar supernovae. These must have happened before, and will We don't know when, but not tomorrow. We're currently in a region of the Milky But when we enter one of the spiral arms that The next supernova that you'll be able to in your lifetime, but it'll be very distant--likely wasn't one. The next truly spectacular supernova will It's not entirely impossible, but we're its recent rumblings. It's more likely that this spectacle will who may be different from us as we are from whom we started this story. For better or worse, we live in a temporarily evidence and importance and frequency of these ocean floor to the supernova-blasted bubbles Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. Brilliant is an online learning platform for Brilliant is for curious learners, both young Brilliant courses teach you how to think and STEM. Quantum Computing is one of the most exciting hard problems using quantum mechanics. And in Brilliant's Quantum Computing course and qubits. But rather than just focusing you'll see how it all works with hands-on experimentation. As you progress, your knowledge will build quantum teleportation, as well as how algorithms You'll develop intuition about how Quantum of incredible physics problems it can help To learn more about Brilliant,