This is a $250 million private Literally, anything you could ever And I'm going to show you between this and a $150 a massive $45 million island, all the way down to the cheapest That thing I'm starting to realize First step on my brand new island. Here's your dollar. Thank you, sir. - Thank you for selling it to me. Let's check out My first impressions is that it's a lot smaller than I thought. When you pay a dollar, you get a random pile of bricks, I found the restroom. And a bunch of random wooden poles. There's more poles than They're actually called pylons. Let's pile onto that boat and leave. And as you can see, there's nothing But later in this video, and also a quarter But first, we're going to head over Monkey Island. Yes, you heard me right. This island is literally swarmed I can see why it's called - What's this monkey? Odie took my orange. Okay. Monkey see food, monkey take. All the monkeys on this island have a strategy They gaslight you into thinking that you're friends, You can have it. I love this monkey. There's a monkey on the boat. And if you're wondering and your friends are going to sleep Suspended above the water are six both humans and monkeys. The monkey's grabbing the GoPro, Jimmy. Sir, we need this for filming. I just need to borrow this. Thank you. Okay. I got my camera back. He wants your hat. Okay, you can have that, sir. By the end of this, The monkeys are stealing everything. And the monkeys are not even See, this island isn't It's actually the top of a massive that emerged from the sand and water to create this illusion of an island Is this a milion dollar island - Because there's no land. I don't know. I think an island And on the other side of the island, And a beachfront massage parlor. Nolan! I'm trying not to fall in the water. I'm about to get a massage That's really cool. Notice how all the water What? That took a lot of effort. And we put that much effort in that the $5 million Island And where we're going next, but it's going to look like this. No joke. This island is so cold right now is actually frozen solid, we're going to be using We're literally hovering. Yeah. Apparently snowmobiles would have It just had to be hovercrafts. This is awesome. Talking about arriving in fashion. And it only took about 30 seconds being outside the hovercraft - How cold is it? It's pretty cold, man He's more like a 70 guy. So, they hurried over to these futuristic Oh, this is so small. Wait, there's no We're gonna have to cuddle then. And these huts are able to stay here because they're able to both float But they also do But at least in the winter, you get a great view For $5 million, you basically And while staying on this island, you're given unlimited I think he thinks we speak Finnish. And even though this island comes Oh, this is beautiful. Fine, I'll take it. Jimmy, buy it for me. The gang ended up spending where they were able to ride He took your glove. Oh my Gosh! This is the best island. I don't know how Maybe one where I could feel my hands. And Karl's hands are in luck but more expensive This island is tiny, luxurious ones out there. Okay, let's go check the house. Feast! We're stoked to have you We hope you have a blast. Yo, we should try to break one thing. Oh, nice bathroom. Usually rich people like showers that This time, When you pay $16 million in addition to a shower, the private island comes that's apparently too We have jet skis. We have a submarine. We have a shark submarine There's almost a submarine Boys, do whatever you want. Yeah! Yeah! I'm going really fast. I love private islands. Karl, if you had one wish, To get off of this thing! Yeah! We're underwater! I am a fish now. After Ludwig and Karl kissed we went back to shore Yeah. Ludwig's He really is. No, wait, I'm not... Any last words? I love you, Mom. This helicopter is taking the boys and letting them jump and Oh, my God. This is crazy. This is only a $16 million island, and we're jumping out of a helicopter. He's about to jump. Oh my Gosh! Oh wait! They jump! There he goes. Whoever said money doesn't buy doesn't own that private island, And now the $45 million island, this island is so big, Oh, hey, I didn't realize - Hi! I always feel uncomfortable and people are just standing Hello! We have some blueberry smoothies Is it alcoholic? No, it's not. He's not 21 now we'll take you guys up a little bit. Let's see what It's a long path. The path is longer than For $45 million, this island comes with beachside bar and private chef. - Can I give it a flip? That's not too bad. And outside of the overlooking the and of course, a pool Does this look as cool on camera And if for some reason, you there's five luxury beachside cabanas Jimmy, may I? You may. May I? You may. I have class. But even after messing around Why are we playing ping pong It's important to note that that's All the way at the other end of the island are century-old ruins Dibs on driving. Oh, no. All right, ready? Yeah. We're going to go off and head to the back How does Karl - Because I'm awesome. Dude, this is like a safari. Yeah, you're going four times I mean, I don't know if but I'm just letting you know. Is there a jail on this island? No Jail. Oh there's no jail? And when we finally ran out of road we started to make our way through what used to be a village of people on this island, - This used to be a bar? You want to walk under this Sure, surely it won't fall Dude, if today was the day that it'd fell, Nolan, come over here before you die. And just past the ruins is easily Yeah, it gets better. We were driving for so long. I forgot we were on an island. The island starts over there, comes wraps all the way around here. Goes down that coastline I'll be honest, I wouldn't pay $45 million for a big jungle But I'm sure some rich guy will. This next island is arguably that money can buy. This is the $150 million island. It comes with eight And the best part is it is completely powered It's home to some of the most and took over four decades to build. This island will literally blow your mind. When I think of a private island, That's good, All right. And apparently the first thing you Make sure you don't taint the I've already Does everyone who come here I mean, they're not running low. True. I don't know if it's Or maybe they just Yeah! But each of us ended up I have a feeling this is going to be - Unless you come back. And even though this island costs you can actually rent it yourself, for the extremely low price I didn't even realize I've heard this is the most It is. - The view is insane. But before we were able to explore the great house, my dumb There's a turtle? Get in there. Yeah. All right, you guys This island is so extra in your party, they have ten staff There's a bunch of people over there What do you want to do And we're just like &quot;turtle&quot;. And of course, Nolan, of all my friends Yes! Yeah! What's everyone up to over here? We're playing pool. With 10 people? They're my hype crew. You don't have to hang out I will be sad If you need attention, It's only been an hour, This is the best island so far. On top of all of that, the island has a house where you can literally hit Because these are made of fish food. You should probably hit it Look at all those flamingos. Flamingos in the sky. They are everywhere. They don't love us Come here, my brethren. But flamingos aren't the only - Bro. This is so cool. And believe it or not, this turtle could theoretically Mr. Tortoise, my name is Jimmy. If my descendants, descendants, Tell them I was awesome. And afterwards, we got swarmed by a bunch of lemurs Get over here! Jimmy, I don't know if you noticed Yeah, I know. - I'll put food on there. And if you're wondering where most of them, sadly, are endangered because the owner, Richard Branson, brought all of them from going extinct. But the most endangered were the mermaids Yeah! Mermaids and sushi. This is luxury. Mermaids! - Do you guys want sushi? Is that cannibalism? Yes. It's like a family reunion. There's honestly We can't even film it all. We play tennis, we play basketball. We explore yet another mansion. I did my first cold plunge. You get the idea. There's It's actually overwhelming. This one's actually pretty intense. I'm like actually scared. - You know what else is intense? The final island. Why are we still here? And on the way to the $250 we stopped in shark infested waters And now and what I'm going to tell you guys, Bro, they're so close. Oh, my gosh. And the worst part is I'm not Stumble Guys is a free-to-play where 32 people compete You have to be an absolute maniac Not even Stumble Guys Why are you all here, sharks? They're so close, And for their new season they went all out with the new animations and emotes. Okay, square head, have it... Bro, this is nuts. I want to make sure They also added a brand new level, but you have to follow a pattern And the longer you live, Is a shark hitting me? I think the sharks are hitting the cage. Oh, this is scary. Not only that, I also just released my new toolkit This is one of their best seasons ever. You need to try my new MrBeast level, And I want The sharks keep hitting the cage. Make sure to download so I don't have to go back You're alive. Let's go do more things that have Please. And now that I've paid off the debt let's visit the $250 million island. This is a $250 million This extraordinary island with over a dozen waterslides. It also has its own hot air balloon you could imagine. And we have it all to ourselves. There are no other guests here, on these islands so far, In the middle of the island even though literally eight year I might still chicken out But before taking on the water we checked out the other features, a hundred jetskis on this island. It's a bit overkill. And not to mention there's a literal zip lines What's the helmet for? What am I going to hit? The ground, bro. Because sometimes people fall off. - This is like really scary. - Good luck. Karl, you're kind of far behind. This is awesome. This is actually not that crazy. And if you own this island, of your friends at any of these Oh, this kind of looks like And it's so funny Nolan looks like a tiny speck. For $250 million, this island, Is that a peacock? Sir, I need to take Sir? And even every game you can imagine, I wish there is the 13,000 people to watch how bad he is at Cornhole. Is that soccer pool? This island has things But something I noticed is at this island How many lifeguards - Over 100 With this many lifeguards, So I thought it'd be fun Has anyone ever rented No one. - This is the first. You look way too relaxed. And after all 100 lifeguards went down, they decided to hype up Here we go! Oh my Gosh! Boys, you want to know What? That one. Why is it so terrifying tonight? It looks so scary. We can skip it. Towering at over 135 feet tall. This is the tallest water I don't even know what I'm looking at. It's like a skyscraper. But I'm scared. Daredevil's Peak. Very inviting. We're so up. It's kind of freaking me out. All right, we made it to the top. Are you guys just waiting for us up Yeah. Listen Oh, don't look down. Look how crazy the island - Karl! Nolan! Oh! Would you say nose goes is enforceable? Nose goes is enforceable. There we go! The lifeguards said you got to go, Nolan. I love you, Mom. I'll see you on the other side. All right, go. Oh my God! Oh, I got hit by a truck. Let's do this. You better come down after me. Okay. Oh, God. Why is it so fast? Is it actually that scary? I'm going to do this even though giant rides scare me. Here we go. That is going so fast. And even though the entire time down this waterslide, I gotta say this whole island