I ate and everything was delicious Hyogo, Japan 6 min. walk from Himeji Sta. Close-up on a soba noodle shop in Omizo-suji shopping street with about 70 stores The owner has arrived Menus are laid out outside the store Food samples are already appetizing Since 2017 Teuchi-Soba Restaurant Yaemon Preparation is done by Mr. Asahi alone Preparation of soup stock Two types of Japanese kelp are used for cold and hot soup stock. Prepare take-out warabi mochi (Photographer) What is this (what is this)? (Mr. Asahi) It's warabi mochi Warabi mochi made the day before are cut and packed in containers Warabi mochi for takeout are cut into larger pieces Yaemon's warabi mochi are very popular as an after-dinner dessert I used to make (warabi mochi) at my former workplace And so I feel like I'm continuing to do that now We also have extra buckwheat tea I was wondering if we could use that to do that. Right now it's like I'm making tea for warabi mochi (laughs) Warabi mochi Making Tartary buckwheat tea I will boil buckwheat tea Soba tea is now boiling the buckwheat tea is strained top white sugar (Mr. Asahi) If it's too hot, it becomes lumpy I'll let it cool just a little bit more warabi starch Warabi starch" is made from plants and is an ingredient used to make warabi mochi firm and springy. (Mr. Asahi) (At first) it's a watery (When it reaches a certain temperature, (it) starts to harden) (Photographer) Does it harden all at once? (Mr. Asahi) Yes (Mixes it) so that it doesn't burn from the bottom Dough has begun to set. I'm going to stop (the fire) here for now. While warabi mochi are cooling, we sweep the floor Transferring the cooled warabi mochi dough to a bat. Remove from heat and refrigerate until firm. Pickled cucumbers from my parents' house. (Mr. Asahi) Monday is the restaurant's regular holiday I'm going back (to my parents' house) to pick again Pickle pickles with the ones you went back to pick Preparing assorted sashimi Preparing the "ken" (a layer of daikon radish) to put under the sashimi. Searing the tuna. (Mr. Asahi) Searing the tuna. Raw tuna and grilled tuna (provided) You have to take off the rough heat so it cooks all the way through. We serve it fresh. Then the red squid is seared (Mr. Asahi) It may or may not be seared I use the same ingredients but with different variations We're going to cut the salmon We also cut the tuna we just seared Preparing a small sashimi serving to go with today's recommendation Scallops Scallops are from Hokkaido Just before serving, shrimp are placed on top to complete the dish Cutting scallions from my parents' field. Preparation of soup stock Kelp is removed Add katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes) The first soup stock is completed A little of the No.1 soup stock is taken away (Mr. Asahi) This dashi here is No.2 dashi and is used for the rice bowl Put once boiled water in the bowl. Second broth to be used for white broth. Making dashi for a bowl of rice. Seasonings prepared for rice bowls Rice Preparation (Mr. Asahi) 1/3 of the year we use my parents' rice in the restaurant (Photographer) Where do your parents live? It's surrounded by mountains. I'm a farmer and a farmer at the same time. Put ice in, let it cook for a while Preparation of takikomi gohan Konnyaku gobo maki chikuwa Daikon radish, carrot Chicken Sesame oil Soba noodle making Soba noodle flour produced in Hyogo Prefecture Water is put into the machine (Photographer) I don't see this machine very often (Mr. Asahi) I was introduced to this machine by a buckwheat noodle shop At first I was kneading it by hand I started to hit more and more and my body couldn't handle it It was almost like hand kneading Water falls like a watering can (Photographer) The water falls like a potpourri (Mr. Asahi) It's nice (water drops falling) (Mr. Asahi) It doesn't come out all at once Make it good according to the day I make it by putting water in it with my senses. (Photographer) How long have you been doing soba noodles? (Mr. Asahi) I started working when I was 18 I've been making soba noodles since I was 18 Even when you were little. At the end of the year, we would make soba noodles as a family. He would do the work with his hands Stretching the dough (Mr.Asahi) Sprinkles flour at the end The first flour of soba noodles is this pollen (hanako) This is sprinkled on the buckwheat dough the less you sprinkle, the better the dough is So I'm often told I don't order enough pollen. Stretched buckwheat dough is cut (Mr. Asahi) Vegetables sent by my mother! My parents send me vegetables. I go home to my parents to pick up my vegetables Tempura preparation Eggplant is cut (Mr. Asahi) Vegetables given by parents are used for tempura Then we cut the peppers Cooked rice is ready Asked by Omizo-suji to use local products I cook with oden ingredients. Part-timers have arrived for work Preparations are made for the opening of the restaurant Frying preparation Muscle cutting is done Then we're going to prepare the shrimp fry (Photographer) So we've got fried food, we've got fried shrimp. (Mr. Asahi) Yes Cutting chicken for chicken cutlets salt and pepper Customers are already lined up in front of the store The staff is in the last spurt of preparation for the opening of the store. Looks like it's ready to open. 11:00 a.m. The restaurant opens The menu is laid out at the entrance Can be checked while waiting Many people are lured into the restaurant by this menu and food samples The very popular soba noodle restaurant "Yaemon" is now open for business! Almost all the seats are filled as soon as the restaurant opens Orders are coming in all at once In the kitchen, food is being prepared at a speed the camera can't keep up with. The busyness in the kitchen has already reached its peak. Soba noodles prepared in the morning are being boiled. Mr. Asahi checks the soba noodles to make sure they are cooked to perfection (Staff) Thank you for waiting! Pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice (Staff) Sorry to keep you waiting! Yaemon set meal (Photographer) What is the dish you asked for? (Female customer) The Yaemon set meal. Actually (the sashimi) was shrimp (I can't eat raw (shrimp). I talked to the staff and they changed it to squid I had it before and it was delicious, so I really like cooked rice! I also enjoyed the pickles, which are different from the store-bought ones! Everything I ate was delicious! (Photographer) How do you like it? The owner and the staff are working together to complete the dishes one after another! Rice cooked in a pot. cooked rice with soy sauce, sugar and mirin Tempura set meal (Staff) Excuse me! set meal with pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice This customer is a regular who comes to the restaurant 2 or 3 days a week. (Male customer) The meat is thick and firm. It's very satisfying, and as always, very tasty! (Male customer) The soba itself is delicious. I think they're really particular about the broth. I just think if the dashi is good, it's probably all good. That's why I often eat oyakodon and oyakodon, as well as katsudon. Delicious! Everything is delicious! Making Nishin Soba Nishin Soba (Staff) Nishin soba noodles! Making Shrimp Chicken Fried Rice Bowl (Mr. Asahi) Two special set menus. Special set meals are in. Making Special set meal Making mini kaisendon. Special set meal (Photographer) (How is the taste)? (Female customer) I like hard noodles! (Photographer) A little firm noodles? (Female customer) Firm. (Male customer) My friend introduced me. It's a buckwheat noodle restaurant, so let's eat buckwheat noodles! And I thought I was going to eat it. The rice dishes are also delicious And from there, I decided to try some other things. And then we started to try other things, and everything tasted good! And then I come here two or three times a week. I got to know the manager really well. (Male customer) If you get to know him well, he'll make you something like a back menu. lol It's not just the food, it's also the personality of the owner. I think that's why people are asking themselves, "Let's go there. (Staff) If you want to come in~! (Female customer) (Yaemon's) It looks like they have original candies I got one that looks like a Kintaro candy It's like a very popular restaurant. I'm always thinking about what time I should come here. I'll be back. The restaurant continues to be full (Photographer) That's a huge number of customers! (Mr. Asahi) There were more yesterday (Staff) Today the sea eel bowl set meal is the recommended set meal (Staff) The sashimi comes with the set meal, is that correct? (Male customer) please Making anago (sea eel) bowl set meal Steamed anago (Staff) Excuse me~! Anago-don set meal (Staff) Kaisendon set meal. Kaisendon set meal. (Male customer) Look, shrimp! (Female guest) I came here at night before! (Male customer) I had hot soba noodles! (Male customer) Shrimp scallops (I had starchy sauce) (Photographer) Voluptuous! (Female customer) Really amazing! The salmon was delicious! Today's limited mini seafood bowl set Here's a big bowl of rice for free! (Male customer) I looked up soba on Google Maps (Female customer) I looked it up and it looked delicious, so I came! They keep boiling and boiling and boiling! Oroshi-soba, cold (Staff) Oroshi soba. (Male customer) Thanks for the food! (Male guest) (The soba noodles) are thicker than normal soba noodles It's crunchy and tasty. (Photographer) How was the warabi mochi that came with the set? (Female customer) It was really delicious! Just what you need to cleanse your palate! (Female customer) There's a variety of a la carte (dishes) I think it would be nice to have a drink at night. (Male customer) The owner seems like a really nice guy The waitstaff are nice, too, so it's easy to come in (to the store). (Female customer) The menu is varied and fun! Three tempura rice bowl sets (Staff) Excuse me! It's a tendon set meal Then the anago donburi is ready! (Staff) Yaemon set meal. (Photographer) It's amazing! This conger eel! This streak has been eating its way through a lot of places. This is the only place I didn't go in. Other than that, I've been going to a lot of them, and And there's a lot of other good restaurants. My friend told me she'd like to try one, and I got in line to get in. Because you can eat so many different things. It's also a set of warabi mochi It's amazing volume and delicious! Cooking two dishes at the same time Oyako-don Shrimp and scallops with starchy sauce Shrimp and scallops with starchy sauce (Staff) Thank you! My friend saw the volume and said she'd like to try it once. Decided to go into the restaurant here That's when I went in and saw it, and it was delicious. I'm always here when I'm in Himeji. (Photographer) What is your impression of the owner? (Asahi Owner) approached me on a moment's notice Even when I was eating, he would explain (the food) to me in detail. I could tell that he was a kind man. (Photographer) Do you have a best recommendation? (Female customer) I thought it was delicious the first time I had it (shrimp scallop ankake soba) I think ankake is delicious, too. I really recommend the sea eel tempura, and The sashimi is also very tasty and hearty! It's fresh! Delicious scallops! I also recommend this kayaku rice! I think it is delicious no matter which one you take! Tasting a katsudon Tasting a katsudon Tasting a seafood donburi Tasting a seafood donburi Tasting a Yaemon set meal Making shrimp mayo for a Yaemon set meal Homemade mayonnaise Yaemon set meal Tasting a shrimp and scallop with thick sauce Scallops Add potato starch dissolved in water Soba noodles with shrimp and scallop sauce Former employee present I was allowed to top my yamakake soba with shrimp tempura! (Photographer) Luxurious (soba) noodles! (Male customer 1) They customize (the menu) for me! This restaurant! (Photographer) What is your impression of the owner? He's kind when he's normal. When it comes to work, he's a devil. You are stoic... when it comes to your work. The best! (Mr. Asahi) Please listen to him! (Photographer) Have you been going there long? (Male customer) I've been going for about two years If I'm going to eat anyway, I want to eat at a good place. Because (Asahi's owner) is a nice person. We eat and drink while chatting. What I eat most often is horse sashimi or something like that. Sakura (horse sashimi) Yukke or something like that. And then there's shrimp mayo. The prawns are huge! It's very satisfying! I'm ordering it! (Photographer) with a drink (to eat) in the evening? (Male customer) Yes! (Drinking) while drinking After work, you stop by (at Yaemon) and have a drink and eat and go home. A dish of deep-fried tofu (Male customer) The soup stock is good!) (Photographer) How many years has it been since the establishment? Eight years now. (Photographer) You have a lot of regulars here! (Mr. Asahi) I'm delighted. lol At night, the regulars come in They want to eat this and that, and I make (them). Everyone gets along well with each other It didn't stop (operations) all yesterday, until 9:00 p.m.! It was busy! (Photographer) Are you working late today? (Mr. Asahi) But tomorrow is my day off, so I'll go home early after a certain amount of time