Translator: Joseph Geni So I want to start by offering you and all it requires of you is this: that you change your posture But before I give it away, do a little audit of your body So how many of you are Maybe you're hunching, crossing your legs, Sometimes we hold onto our arms like this. Sometimes we spread out. (Laughter) I see you. So I want you to pay attention We're going to come back and I'm hoping that if you learn it could significantly change So, we're really fascinated and we're particularly interested You know, we're interested in, an awkward interaction, or a smile, or a contemptuous glance, or maybe even something like a handshake. Narrator: Here they are This lucky policeman gets to shake hands Here comes the Prime Minister -- (Laughter) (Applause) Amy Cuddy: So a handshake, can have us talking for weeks Even the BBC and The New York Times. So obviously when we think or body language -- but we call it it's language, so we think When we think about communication, So what is your body language What's mine communicating to you? And there's a lot of reason to believe So social scientists looking at the effects or other people's body language, And we make sweeping judgments And those judgments can predict like who we hire or promote, For example, Nalini Ambady, shows that when people watch of real physician-patient interactions, their judgments predict whether or not So it doesn't have to do so much with whether or not that physician but do we like that person Even more dramatic, has shown us that judgments in just one second predict 70 percent of U.S. Senate and gubernatorial and even, let's go digital, emoticons used well in online negotiations can lead you to claim more value If you use them poorly, bad idea. Right? So when we think of nonverbals, how they judge us We tend to forget, though, that's influenced by our nonverbals, We are also influenced by our nonverbals, our thoughts and our feelings So what nonverbals am I talking about? I'm a social psychologist. and I teach at a competitive so it was inevitable that I would become I became especially interested of power and dominance. And what are nonverbal expressions Well, this is what they are. So in the animal kingdom, So you make yourself big, you stretch out, you take up space, It's about opening up. And this is true It's not just limited to primates. And humans do the same thing. (Laughter) So they do this both when they have and also when they're feeling And this one is especially interesting how universal and old these This expression, which is known as pride, Jessica Tracy has studied. She shows that people and people who are congenitally when they win at a physical competition. So when they cross it doesn't matter if they've never They do this. So the arms up in the V, What do we do when we feel powerless? We do exactly the opposite. We close up. We make ourselves small. We don't want to bump So again, both animals and humans And this is what happens So what we tend to is that we complement So if someone is being we tend to make ourselves smaller. We do the opposite of them. So I'm watching this behavior and what do I notice? I notice that MBA students really exhibit So you have people really coming into the room, they get before class even starts, When they sit down, They raise their hands like this. You have other people when they come in. You see it on their faces and they sit in their chair and they go like this I notice a couple of things about this. One, you're not going to be surprised. It seems to be related to gender. So women are much more likely Women feel chronically so this is not surprising. But the other thing I noticed is that it also seemed to which the students were participating, And this is really important because participation So business schools have been struggling You get these equally qualified and then you get and it seems to be partly So I started to wonder, you know, okay, so you have these people coming in Is it possible that we could and would it lead them So my main collaborator and I really wanted to know, Like, can you do this and actually experience that makes you seem more powerful? So we know that our nonverbals think and feel about us. But our question really was, do our nonverbals govern There's some evidence that they do. So, for example, we smile but also, when we're forced to smile by holding a pen in our teeth So it goes both ways. When it comes to power, So when you feel powerful, you're more likely to do this, but it's also possible you are more likely So the second question so we know that our minds but is it also true And when I say minds, what am I talking about? So I'm talking about thoughts and feelings and the sort of physiological things and in my case, that's hormones. So what do the minds of the powerful So powerful people tend to be, more assertive and more confident, They actually feel they're going to win They also tend to be able So there are a lot of differences. There are a lot of differences Physiologically, on two key hormones: testosterone, and cortisol, which is the stress hormone. So what we find is that high-power have high testosterone and low cortisol, and powerful and effective leaders also have high testosterone So what does that mean? people tended to think because that was about dominance. But really, power is also about So do you want the high-power high on testosterone, Probably not, right? You want the person who's powerful but not very stress reactive, So we know that in primate hierarchies, if an alpha needs to take over, if an individual needs to take over within a few days, significantly and his cortisol So we have this evidence, the mind, at least at the facial level, and also that role changes So what happens, okay, what happens if you do that like this tiny manipulation, &quot;For two minutes,&quot; you say, and it's going to make you feel So this is what we did. We decided to bring people into the lab and these people adopted, for two minutes, either high-power poses and I'm just going to show although they took on only two. So here's one. A couple more. This one has been dubbed Here are a couple more. So you can be standing And here are the low-power poses. So you're folding up, This one is very low-power. When you're touching your neck, So this is what happens. They come in, they spit into a vial, for two minutes, we say, They don't look at pictures of the poses. We don't want to prime them We want them to be feeling power. So two minutes they do this. We then ask them, &quot;How powerful and then we give them and then we take another saliva sample. That's it. That's the whole experiment. So this is what we find. Risk tolerance, which is the gambling, we find that when you are 86 percent of you will gamble. When you're in the low-power only 60 percent, and that's Here's what we find on testosterone. From their baseline when they come in, high-power people experience and low-power people experience So again, two minutes, Here's what you get on cortisol. High-power people experience and the low-power people experience So two minutes lead that configure your brain to basically be either assertive, or really stress-reactive, And we've all had the feeling, right? So it seems that our nonverbals do govern so it's not just others, Also, our bodies change our minds. But the next question, of course, is, can power posing for a few minutes really change your life This is in the lab, it's this little task, Where can you actually apply this? Which we cared about, of course. And so we think where you want to use this like social threat situations. Where are you being evaluated, For teenagers, For some people it's speaking It might be giving a pitch or doing a job interview. We decided that the one because most people had been through, So we published these findings, and the media are all over it, and they say, Okay, so this is what you do when you go in (Laughter) You know, so we were of course Oh my God, no, For numerous reasons, no, don't do that. Again, this is not about you It's you talking to yourself. What do you do before you go You're sitting down. or your Android, not trying You're looking at your notes, you're hunching up, making yourself small, when really what you should like, in the bathroom, right? So that's what we want to test. Okay? So we bring people into a lab, and they do either high- they go through It's five minutes long. They're being judged also, and the judges are trained so they look like this. Imagine this is the person So for five minutes, nothing, People hate this. It's what Marianne LaFrance calls So this really spikes your cortisol. So this is the job interview because we really wanted We then have these coders look They're blind to the hypothesis. They have no idea and they end up looking and they say, all the high-power posers. &quot;We don't want to hire these people. We also evaluate these people But what's driving it? It's not about the content of the speech. It's about the presence Because we rate them related to competence, How good is it? No effect on those things. These kinds of things. People are bringing They're bringing themselves. They bring their ideas, but as themselves, with no, you know, residue over them. So this is what's driving the effect, So when I tell people about this, that our bodies change our minds and our behavior can change &quot;It feels fake.&quot; Right? So I said, fake it till you make it. It's not me. I don't want to get there I don't want to feel like an impostor. I don't want to get there only to feel And that really resonated with me, because I want to tell you and feeling like When I was 19, I was I was thrown out of a car, I was thrown from the car. And I woke up in a head injury rehab ward, and I had been withdrawn from college, and I learned that my IQ had dropped which was very traumatic. I knew my IQ because and I had been called gifted as a child. So I'm taken out of college, They say, &quot;You're not going Just, you know, there are other but that's not going to work out for you.&quot; So I really struggled having your identity taken and for me it was being smart, having that taken from you, there's nothing that leaves you feeling So I felt entirely powerless. I worked and worked, and I got lucky, and worked, and got lucky, and worked. Eventually I graduated from college. It took me four years and I convinced someone, to take me on, and I was like, I am an impostor. And the night before my first-year talk, and the first-year talk at Princeton That's it. I was so afraid of being that I called her She was like, &quot;You are not quitting, because I took a gamble You're going to stay, and this is You are going to fake it. You're going to do every talk You're just going to do it even if you're terrified and having an out-of-body experience, until you have this moment where you say, Like, I have become this. So that's what I did. Five years in grad school, a few years, you know, I moved to Harvard, I'm at Harvard, I'm not really thinking about it anymore, &quot;Not supposed to be here.&quot; So at the end of my first year at Harvard, a student who had not talked who I had said, &quot;Look, you've gotta came into my office. She came in totally defeated, &quot;I'm not supposed to be here.&quot; And that was the moment for me. Because two things happened. One was that I realized, oh my gosh, I don't feel that anymore, And the second was, Like, she can fake it, she can become it. So I was like, &quot;Yes, you are! And tomorrow you're going to fake it, you're going to make yourself (Applause) And you're going to go and you are going to give You know? And she gave and people turned around and were like, oh my God, I didn't even notice her She comes back to me months later, and I realized that she had not just she had actually faked it So she had changed. And so I want to say to you, Fake it till you become it. Do it enough until you actually The last thing I'm going Tiny tweaks can lead to big changes. So, this is two minutes. Two minutes, two minutes, two minutes. Before you go into the next stressful for two minutes, try doing this, in a bathroom stall, at your desk That's what you want to do. Configure your brain Get your testosterone up. Don't leave that situation feeling Leave that situation feeling like, I really feel like I got to say So I want to ask you first, you know, and also I want to ask you to share I don't have ego involved in this. Give it away. Share it with people, because the people who can use it the most are the ones with no resources and no status and no power. Give it to them They need their bodies, and it can significantly change Thank you. (Applause)