So we're on inside drift today, and I --I never right, so we're --we're gonna--we're gonna see if Like, and I'm not kidding when I say I never kind of know how it works, and if I don't hit I will be very happy with that. What? a close pack here. I--I just don't know I know how to control this vehicle, but I don't Let's take this little shortcut here. I--I so having a star is really nice. And I have Oh, you can't turn with this thing, and you can't All right, right in that situation, I probably handling in order to get away from the blue Two items. Very nice. Oh, look at that. Okay, hit the Toadette twice. Okay, let's see if we and use the boo just in case. Oh, third place. chance here. So the craziest thing about inside used to this thing, is that when you first start and then only afterwards do you drift in. And drifting on outside drift vehicles. You actually turbo, and then after that, that's when you hold can see here, as I take this right drift, I drift makes the alignment a little better. At least, Oh no, okay. [laughs] Oh, hopping doesn't work. bullet bills in a row. So a lot of my habits Oh, and I can't see anything as I do this This is quite a short track. It's Okay, take this. No. This is bad. This is really Oh, me and the King Boo had the exact same idea. I feel like it's not gonna be too bad for inside drift alone, not me on inside drift. Me on inside never used inside drift on slippery road. Oh, this here. Oh, it works! Nice, nice, nice. So one thing because you're generally heading in a straight all over the place like you do with outside drift. I don't get to charge as many mini turbos just Like, for example, I can't do alignment turn faster than I otherwise would. And the Oh, shock dodge. Bam! And the reason that sucks is more than I should for the turn. Just to see, like to fix my alignment. Whatever my alignment is, gonna charge mini turbos. All right, here there's charge a mini turbo, you can still drift, and Ah, these are not good items. So we can hit someone with that, not getting it the sides, so I figured not to fight them for it. Get a good spot. Come on. Second place. Yes! Oh, I won. That was amazing. I'm just gonna get as the turning just--it just isn't good. All right, character, just because I have more confidence Oh no, no, no, no. That was not good. Oh no, I can't see. All right, that's the other I take this turn. Like, okay, well, it's a--it's where you're going. Your field of view is actually and you're not actually facing to the side. more of the turn. Like, look at that. I can't see Okay, I think it's still worth That was so not worth it. Banana in the shortcut. right, uh, we're basically in last place here. I'm gonna use the star to take the starting Oh, golden mushroom is really good. Can I hit the of here. Use it right here. That was the smallest Okay, that was really good. Oh, come on, Oh, let's--let's go. I cheese that so hard. Oh, was amazing! This track will be pretty good with is pretty much just how good is this for like if some of the turns are awkward then I know it'll be good for inside drift. is one of the tracks I'd prefer to get compared but I have ten coins, so the fact that I'm such I couldn't get a purple mini turbo. Oh, You idiot. Curve right a little bit as I start the I'm starting to like inside drift. Thanks to inside drift And what item am I getting here? [Music] Can I get a purple right here? Yeah, that's coming Two protection, that's great. Really good for green shell, which means if a blue shell But I still have one defense, so I think it's--this So happy that wasn't coming for me. Okay, now I Where are you? Oh, you're right and the red shell didn't Oh, that was almost the perfect race. There was the banana because I was so worried. It's okay. Me Volcano. This is probably totally fine on inside sharp turns. So first place probably doesn't mushroom just for emergencies. Using a mushroom right now. I just want to use it to save me from the coin. Hmm, should I--let me try Oh, that works. What? That's even easier. put that right there. Everyone's gonna get hit. I but the person right behind me didn't get hit, get a coin here... okay, perfect, perfect. Not a I'm just driving straight through it. much. It doesn't even feel like I'm really the hallmarks of inside drift is, can't turn, I'm so focused. I'm trying so hard not to make a little bit there. Uh, we have a blue shell. I I--I didn't see that. This is a mistake I'm on inside drift and I'm focusing so hard, I Yes, doubble box. Also, getting the double box difficult to aim exactly where I'm trying to red shell? Okay, I didn't notice that one. Oh no, no! Trees, trees, get out of there. Let's right. The left is a little safer with the glider, someone shocked. Oh, and someone dodged. Okay, no, decision even though it's not faster. Because didn't lose any time. So I made the read. switched to DK. Partially for the DK, obviously, reason is just because I really want to speed set Uh, we are in first place. I'm not gonna use this good, we're good. I should use it now. I was gonna for not playing inside drift, it's actually really what? Come on, let me in. There's an out of bounds for me, I guess. [laughs] I mean, I was gonna All right, we are right back in it. Hmm, do this double shortcut before the end of the Well. Get a double item box, yes. Okay, we still have a chance here. It's not over, turbo here and hop, and then hop. Yes, I did it. Come on, do this turn better. Oh, okay, third place. No, I'm happy with that. DK's Are you actually kidding me? [laughs] Who get out of here. That is messed up. Shortcat? they're playing as the mii. Okay, and I'm not even inside drift and just join me on my little inside if both Shortcats were playing inside drift. doesn't really lose me any time on inside drift, and me no longer being top two, because Slow down, slow down, and you get hit. know the shortcuts on this track right now. and I don't even remember how to play it on All right, I mean, that's Okay, see if we can use this Oh, that was a terrible bump, and I just sniped myself. I'm gonna be so mean to three times. I am so sorry, but Oh no no [laughs] I'm so sorry, Cherry. You don't counts. Oh, Shortcat is playing inside drift. have ourselves a battle here. Which Shortcat is about to find out. But they're actually using the Okay, got that one in second, which This is why you don't play baby characters. You have no control over what happens to you, I think this vehicle probably is pretty good on lot of tight maneuvers you have to do, which is a that--Oh yeah, that was a really good choice. Okay, here. What? I forgot about underwater physics. You Please, none of these red shells come for Oh yeah, it's over. It is over. Even all my Okay, we're gonna use this right here. get an item box here? Yes, yes, yes, we're Oh, sixth place. Ah, that bullet went would have gotten a better placement. I think Shortcat. Imposter Shortcat. I am back on my Shortcat mii disconnected at some point or just so I'm gonna go with disconnected. And, uh, I'm but at least, uh, inside drift So, uh, there typically aren't very many sharp uh, inside drift. Well, not like, you good for inside drift. It's just, it's just Nice, two mushrooms. Just in case I can't do second mushroom. Yeah, I need that second That's actually a really good shortcut, don't even know what it's like to go not take me. Can we get this double item? Yes, we I'm risking myself here, but I We'll get away from the fire. This is so scary. That's so funny. All right, let's drop that right Oh, no, I didn't. I didn't Okay, it's okay. I think I've so it's in my second slot, which is nice. no, no, I'm not getting rid of it. Oh, this Cherry's gonna get revenge on me for how Can't trick. I really can't. Don't mess up, don't mess up. Yes, actually had--that was my first breakaway I feel like I'm really getting the hang of give me a chance to win here. I just need to this track now. Oh, couldn't get an item. All right, we are in a bad place after I don't care if someone else gets a shock. I want to use this at the optimal Two people are in bullets, not use the what's going on with the people that are and just like that, we're in fifth. we are in second, we are in first with Shock on a track with shortcuts is That was complete luck. That was--this entire lead that race, and I ended up winning by a landslide You know what? It's inside drift that was broken. far back. Another city track, and you know what? shown that there's a time and place for city because then, like, you're good at every track then I feel like I have a fighting chance on city Got hit by nothing. That's just great. Ughh. I'm actually very good at Kalimari Desert. gonna be like on inside drift. No, this is severity of the turns is suited very well to the See if I can do this. Nice. Okay, I meant to release that drift, like you don't so it's perfectly fine if I make a mistake I guess I'm not gonna be doing this shortcut do on lap one and two, which means basically lap Oh, two defense items. I like this. I'm gonna keep uh, Kalimari Desert. Not just like, oh, this is Yeah, the turns are really well suited because I'm gonna play it safely--Oh, I didn't but I'm too far ahead. It At least get a mini turbo first. Nice, slightly coming up here anyway, so it doesn't matter if they don't have another red shell. Oh, good thing but it looks like they messed up too. Oh, that I know the world record doesn't use inside drift actually does pretty well on this track any of that. You guys ever noticed the lighting on I just guess I haven't noticed that before, but it Not gonna do anything fancy there. Actually, I'm bounce. It's just not a mechanic that they just like a difference in properties of Oh, that is so scary. Do not hit me How are there two boomerangs? Okay, and I wasn't looking forward, and because of I've been hit by in my life on that specific Hmm, let's try this. Let's try this right here. Oh, yeah, I was boosting. There was nothing can't do that. All right, good, good, good, right And we get the double. Yes, what? Please, please, please. How did I win that? Oh, where are you going? Can I get draft? Yes, I got it, but somehow everyone's still Couldn't get an item. That's okay. I still have and it's not like my item is gonna be that get some coins here. That's the main thing on but you can definitely be faster Oh, I'm gonna try and get my All right, uh, let's just burn this mushroom All right, cool, we are in first place. We are in me, it is over. I needed to hit the person with a Come on, come on. Yes, yes.