(narrator) Weapons have existed For millennia, they have deterd Weapons bring suffering and de. They show what humans can inflt But they are and pave new ways for technolo. Three weapons that increased Deadly innovations. Their invention changed Detailed experiments reveal The Henry rifle. Making it rais This weapon was a game changer. (narrator) The long sword, In a real-life battle, (narrator) The Scorpio. That's gone through a millimete. (narrator) Our first weapon It is a Roman ranged weapon. What makes it so special? Lower Saxony, Germany, 230 CE. (thunderclap) Thousands of Roman legionnaires and with heavy equipment. Along the Western end they battle Germanic warriors. The Romans storm How did they do it? Archaeologists have been unearg The Harzhorn is one of the most Experts are surprised the large number of bolt heads. Many of them are bent. They mut (in German) (dubbed in English) The finds fm catapults with bolts in a targe. Hundreds of bolts were found, Experts could reconstruct the t. Based on the direction they think the Romans tried to p (narrator) The Romans call Probably because its form is sr A legion of 5,000 men The Scorpio must have been the cumbersome transportation. In addition to the bolt heads the detailed documentations reveal the most about how His work on ancient technology is still astonishing to this d. This copy of his Ten Books on e dates back to the 15th century. In this work, he describes the Scorpio quote &quot;been invented for safete There are depictions of the Scn We can easily see two large cys Is this the secret How does this weapon work? Why do Germanic warriors Military historian Stephen Bull by the Roman art of engineerin. Today, he wants to conduct according to historical exampl. One weapon, various ways of bu. They all have one thing in com: they have a firing channel Ideas that the Romans did not e When the Romans they invariably improved them. And with the Scorpio they take and turn it This is now part of the way they So they make it lighter, and they make it more effective by increasing the power An all-around upgrade. (narrator) How much impact does And how precisely can you hit ? Distance to target Bull and his team They push the adjustable sleig, and push the sleigh back again. The last step is aiming (Bull) I'm ready with the bolt. And I'm ready to shoot. Not bad. It's on target. This has been a pretty effectiv. It has gone all the way into th, and doubtless you can see projecting on the other side of. (narrator) A mobile artillery w, firing power and precision. Thin wooden pieces enable To transport it, the Romans die and put it back together The Scorpio Its levers were embedded When the trigger was released, and the arrow (narrator) In ancient times, thn or animal sinew braided into b. They store energy when twisted. The energy is transmitted direy Our Scorpio reconstruction has housed in the typical bronze c. One assistant In our reconstruction, that are more weather-resistant Finally, Stephen Bull inserts d The Roman Empire The gladius is one of them, The Scorpio is a weapon that hem and we know that they use it In Britain it's used to capturee It's a very useful artillery pie to bring up for assault operatis (narrator) Gaul, 52 BCE. Roman troops under Gaius Juliur have been trying Time and again, they have to dt And now, Caesar is facing a ne: The Gauls are intending to unie Vercingetorix is all of the Gauls, or almost all, that unless they want to become and lose their identity, It's no good one of the tribes , They have to believe in And he makes enormous progress which some French people look bn (narrator) But the legionnaires Caesar wrote: &quot;A Gaul before the gate of then on the right side and fell dea. Another Gaul stepped over him He got shot by an arrow Caesar defeats the Gauls. Their leader, Vercingetorix, The Gauls' resistance is broke. Legend has it that Vercingetord at Caesar's feet after his cap. The scene has also And in the first book The adventures of Asterix and x The Roman occupation of Gaul. In the comic, the Gauls, defend their last stronghold, They have plenty of clever ide, The life of Gauls and Romans, are a recurring topic The drawings of siege weapons with their detail and accuracy. Generally speaking, Whether a Roman camp or their famous battle formati, it has all been captured in th. Reality, however, is probably . Each legion deploys about 60 S. According to Caesar's accounts, Once aimed, the weapon is saidy Stephen Bull wants to find out That way. That's it. That's OK.. (narrator) Stephen Bull has hisn Fire at will. Ah! (narrator) Will the next shots We've got a couple of shots That's reasonable. Maybe 45-50 centimeters away We also had a couple of misses. (narrator) For the ancient worl, But what about penetrating pow? Can the Scorpio bolts pierce What we have here We're not really going for accu, Let's see how it does. That's gone through a millimete. The heavy bolt-head has focused It's not come through the wood, If you'd been wearing this metar We're trying to get the arrow I think it will come, given som. (he strains) Yes. It appears to have gone maybe It's gone through the armor Quite a nasty injury. (narrator) The Scorpio has passd So, we've succeeded in penetratg To make life difficult for ours, to make it two millimeters of s. This will be a serious test Hit the target, bottom right. (narrator) How deep did Not very deep... ...but through both steel plate. So, the first plate comes off an The penetration through the sece as through the first plate. But it's still gone through. So, this is the first hole, And this is the second hole, not so deep, but still all the h (narrator) Based on experts estimate it was possibe over a distance of up to 500 m. It is one of the most efficient The Romans built the Scorpio It is unclear when it disappead Possibly, the torsion techniqu, was replaced by the more simplm Our next weapon: the sword. It is intrinsically tied to But the sword is more It is a status symbol, The stuff legends are made of. The battle of Lechfeld, near A, King Otto I defends against the Hungarians. The extremely mobile and light have spread fear and terror But this time they stand no ch. With their swords, Otto's knige (soldier groans) Stefan Roth has been forging copying historical models, and knows that swords are far e (in German) (dubbed in English) Medieval sws because I know how these weapone (narrator) The earliest finds from Arslantepe, Turkey, This means the history of swors The Romans In late antiquity, they switcho Teutons and Vikings and enshrine To this day, the myths around r from the Arthurian legend live. It rests within a stone. It is said to have magical pow. (in German) (dubbed in English) Whoever is said to be Swords represent power, claim t, and are an integral part of (narrator) Real swords Such as the Ulfberht, a Germanic forged between the 8th and 11t. Archaeologists have found about They all share one distinctive What we're looking it's a way of selling a product This mark equals good. (narrator) Precious swords are o in the Middle Ages. Archaeologists, however, reguly of significantly lower quality. Were these just cheap copies Product counterfeiting in the ? (in German) (dubbed in English) A renowned , who makes a special weapon, get. Usually the material is inferio, there were different buyers There were swords of high and pr depending on how much If you want a superior weapon, e (narrator) During the Middle Ag, into more stable plate armor. Knights no longer need shields, a longer, heavier sword at the. And they have to, because their opponents are ald Knights fighting with a light, no longer stand a chance. Around the same time, but on Samurai warriors fight with th, It's a very aggressive weapon. Whereas a sword and shield a two-handed sword You attack until you kill the e. The strokes you use, mostly involved (narrator) Stefan Roth has examd The Katana is known as the mase The blade is curved, single-edd The long sword on the other had with a very sharp point The expert knows the advantages Which one is the better sword? The historical forging techniqe Stefan Roth folds the scorchint in order to obtain steel This folding process We have to get rid of the slag, If I want to forge a sword, I am trying to make it to obtain steel that is (narrator) At first, the carbons By folding the steel repeatedl, in a more homogenous way. Unlike the belief held medieval Japanese blacksmiths d Roth is convinced Europe's swod and in some cases produce bett. (in German) (dubbed in English) European los because the blade is This is not the case for Japan. (narrator) This is achieved and quickly placing it This way, the metal becomes mu. (in German) (dubbed in English) So the Japae It bends, doesn't bounce back. Depending on how thick the blad, that you insert into the armor, and then for the man wearing thr (narrator) Direct comparison shs But the long sword has a rhombc In addition to that, whereas only the sharp edge ofe But how well Stefan Roth wants to find out who is an expert in Asian mart. Can the long sword cut through And how will the extremely shap Despite Alexander's targeted b, the Katana only cuts With his long sword, Stefan Ros Our next test: And indeed, the Katana piercesh (in German) (dubbed in English) The Europead it is long, pointed This means the energy can be You can see how deeply Just imagine you have a knight It's quite possible (narrator) The comparison reveas the long sword penetrates But both swords would have proy Nevertheless, the massive blowf also on the armor-clad knight. (in German) (dubbed in English) and comes with a certain weight. If you strike a blow, it is impt resulting from this movement. Energy can be calculated One, the weight, and two, the s. A long sword is suitable to transfer a very large amount. (soldier screams) And even if the opponent is weag (he groans) They can suffer injuries like subcutaneous bleeding, that can later reach the brain. (narrator) It is still thought t are superior to those of medie. But is it really true? Stefan Roth and Katana warrior want to compare The single-edged Katana comes . Alexander cuts through the rolt The double-edged European longd The difference between the is that he has to turn his hand. We have a natural hand position but in a real-life battle, (narrator) In reality, the two s The medieval European long swo: Books on battle techniques proe European sword combat techniqu. Like the Italian Fior di Batta, from the early 15th century. Such books mostly show techniqs and seem quite brutal The depictions of the violence in the Middle Ages was If we compare to modern times, , than things we have seen in rec. We have seen that are just as barbaric So I think it was just a differ, that could do horrific amounts . (narrator) The Codex Wallerstei: It does indeed depict but is also shows how merciless We see, for example, you hold the sword like a billd The names of other techniques &quot;mouth blow&quot;, &quot;murder strike&quot; , In the late Middle Ages, the ld but is still important It often serves The outcome of the duel The Katana also holds a particr the Japanese warrior elite. Over the course of time, becomes a prestige object The sword is something of across all cultures, For Japan, the sword is both as a personal possession and as a way of representing (narrator) Swords and their sucs well into the modern era. They were eventually and replaced with firearms, (gunfire and explosions) But this doesn't mean The medieval wonder weapon livn and in the various disciplines. The triumphal march of firearms Constant improvements also maks One particularly crucial and de 1861. The beginning The Unionists from the North fight the Confederates The weapon of the North a muzzleloader with high accur. (soldiers shout) But the reloading process is A quite simple invention will . Almost overnight, the Henry Rie Similar developments take place A shooting range near Gotha, Wolfgang Stabe builds and colls There is hardly a 19th-centuryn (Stabe) I feel like a Wild West. This weapon was a game changer. (narrator) American gunsmith Ben The magazine holds 15 cartridg. One additional round The rifle weighs about 4kg. The most important detail: it can be reloaded (dubbed in English) Pulling ther and the next round so you only need one movement with greater ease and reliabili. (in German) (dubbed in English) I push the . And now it's in the chamber. Now I can fire, reload, and fir. (narrator) The mechanism via a small bar, the lever actn into the barrel. At the same time, The hammer then fires the cart. This weapon was a masterstroke. This is a tubular magazine. We have a spring and you turn the barrel at the . So, this whole thing and it can take a lot of bullet. (narrator) The Henry is not but the ammunition used by (Stabe) Sometimes, when firing, of the cartridge in front, which causes the whole magazinef This leads to bad, even fatal, . (narrator) The Henry will becoms Those are much safer, Also, the repeater mechanism as so the invention becomes The magazine on the Henry rifle a guidance bar for the push bo. This is a weakness, A disadvantage in battle. The tubular magazine is a weak . If the weapon falls, The metal is relatively thin. And can no longer shoot. (narrator) Yet compared to the Henry rifle is a major lea. Benjamin Tyler Henry is smart. He knows if his rifle is succel He files a patent application about five months A wise decision. Because the history of war hasn everyone will try to copy it, This has been the practice But now, a new variable The earliest evidence of patenw and it becomes a recurring topc The legal definition of patentw and has close ties to weapons . Just before the age of industrid rifles, pistols, so that it's possible to protect in the construction of a weapon. Not the weapon itself, (narrator) Weapons designers Just like Samuel Colt, who apps in the mid-19th century. Other manufactures This sparks the most bizarre i. One competitor designs a revolr It turns like a record. The amn The Turret Pistol does not infe but it is a threat to the shoo. The cartridges sometimes go off It is also thanks to patent law flourishes today around the gl. Every year, defense spending we Back to the shooting range nea. Stabe wants to find out with Benjamin Tyler Henry's I insert nine cartridges, release again, then I open the n And now ten shots of rapid fire. (narrator) The timer will be std (gunshots stop) We needed 8.8 seconds. Less than one second per shot. . (narrator) More than one shot p. In the 19th century, For the Unionists the Henry rifle should be But the high rate of fire is ey They think cartridges the ammunition consumption and that railway and horses A superior weapon that is rarey The weapon had enormous fire po. Troops needed lots of ammunitio, as was the weapon itself, They only bought 1,700 of the H: they were worried they couldn't (narrator) Soldiers who can afft ...hoping that it would increae By the end of the war, A comparison: more than one min are built during the same peri. Meanwhile in Europe, another With its extreme rate of fire, by German inventor von Dreyse, The Henry rifle never makes it, as the &quot;Henry Carbine&quot; a character from German author In the novels, the weapon is an exaggeration. What advantage does Weapons expert Wolfgang Stabe s is compared to muzzleloaders. Four experienced shooters Left, in turquoise, Right, in red, the Southern Sts the most frequently used weapon How many targets will the teams So, everything's safe, we can b. This is the timer. We'll start . Give it your best shot. Live experiment, North versus S. (narrator) Both groups have The Northerners The Southerners with the muzzlr Turquoise is in the lead. The repeater rifle makes them r The Southerners in red but their muskets are more acc. Who will win? There is so much smoke, but I'm glad we hit something. This is a cool experience. It's. (in German) (dubbed in English) I'm not sure about the second, and you can't see well. A soldier fires a lot, (narrator) Three out of five shd Whereas the Henry rifle shootes (in German) (dubbed in English) We fired a , We got carried away and fired qy The others took their time. but if you look at the outcome, (narrator) The result: the Henry prevails over the mu. An additional advantage is that when they can fire faster and . The side that has the superior s that we are the stronger enemy And therefore, you are inferior, confident and powerful, which will make them stronger. And give them more enthusiasm te (narrator) For four years, Roughly 620,000 people lose th. On June 23rd, 1865, This marks After this war, An advanced version of the Heny The Winchester is supposed to p (in German) (dubbed in English) The success. Like all new designs, They soon found out something This is the successor, the Yank, The differences were quite simp. You see a front stock here, whis and you see the tubular magazin. They soon found out and you couldn't fire it anymor, There is another novelty: That means if I take the weapon, I don't have to take that off, Way too complicated. That means this design they camh (narrator) The 1873 model will e and will later feature in many. This is due to the fact that ws actively helped in building th. Winchester is a canny operator, He's the market man. He invents the idea that this is He creates a mythology about defiantly American, and unique. (narrator) The Henry opens new s Only 14,000 copies are made, with successor models. Today, original Henry rifles Which deadly inventions will mk After fire power has been opti, it seems like robots are Autonomous battle machines without losing soldiers. Will they decide on life and dh In the future, the gun may be is which will make reasoned choices But it will still be the human because the program We're not yet in a world (narrator) Not yet. But many are for transporting heavy loads This move towards autonomous we, without having to get physically We have the technology, Science fiction isn't fiction. (narrator) First tests have shon to keep up with human beings and sometimes even outdo them. But until now, it is still a hn The advancements will have an impact on warfare. Life and death decisions From a technical point of view, will soon be able to find and ak The future has already begun.