Narrator: These rustic are a ticking time bomb. The slightest mistake and they can blow up, killing workers. Narrator: Thousands of these after civil war broke out in 2011. Now, millions of displaced for fuel to run their cars, businesses, and homes, including Ahmed Abdalla, who owns some of the refineries. Narrator: So what does it at these informal refineries in Syria, where children do a lot of the dirty work? And why is this black gold a blessing and a curse for the people here? Ahmed and his family called Tahrin near the city of Al-Bab. It's controlled by opposition forces, and it became a safe haven for About 400,000 displaced Narrator: Satellite images of Several years later, the and marked by refineries. Ahmed owns three of the in this part of town, poured their life when they started in 2012. Narrator: The crude oil is refined in these 55-gallon Each of these can cost up to $50,000. Narrator: A coal-powered The crude oil evaporates These are submerged in water basins so that the vapors can condense and turn into diesel, Narrator: The heaviest part of the oil settles at the bottom of the drums. It's highly flammable before the drum is used This is what Ahmed calls briquette, and it's used for cooking and heating. Sometimes it's teenagers to clean them, because Ahmed doesn't want them But he says many war-torn Narrator: Even his own 16-year-old Narrator: After a long morning, Today, he's having tea who nearly died in 2018 Narrator: His eyes were Narrator: Just like Ahmed, Before the war, he was Narrator: He's exposed to plumes of smoke that release toxic chemicals, Narrator: The smoke also coats And oil spills have contaminated the ground and drinking water. Narrator: These makeshift between 2011 and 2012, when against President Bashar al-Assad. At the time, Ahmed was a paralegal in his hometown of Al-Safira, which had become a battleground. So in 2012, he fled with his family and eventually settled in Tahrin. Narrator: But the worst was yet to come. In 2014, ISIS rose to power the country's official infrastructure, says Wim Zwijnenburg, a researcher who's been following the Syria war. Wim: ISIS made a lot of money from selling oil to smugglers. So in order to prevent that, the US-led coalition started bombing some of these locations pumping stations in order to prevent ISIS from pumping up the oil. Narrator: The Syrian democratic forces and coalition troops But over the last 12 years, the war has claimed over Today, Syria is informally Assad's forces hold most of it. The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces have the oil-rich northeast. And Syrian opposition control other parts of the So tankers regularly deliver of crude from the where locals distill it. Thousands of people here Wim: So taking away a livelihood and income for families in this area from the industry wouldn't be beneficial for any post-conflict reconstruction, rehabilitation efforts. Narrator: Ahmed's home just a mile away runs on the same fuel. These generators that pump Narrator: But the very thing and so many others is destructive And that's where the They're a humanitarian group of first responders from all over Syria. Hasan Mohamed is one of They were especially active at the height of the war in 2014. Narrator: They've rushed to the site of at least 550 oil refinery explosions. Hasan says sometimes they're a result of recklessness in the refining process, but other times, the Syrian government has targeted these refineries. Narrator: Despite the risks, in an area with few other opportunities. Narrator: All together, his nearly 1,000 barrels of fuel a day. Narrator: Ahmed buys the and sells the refined fuel for $100. He makes enough to comfortably But even staples like in the war-torn country, and about 60% of the population Narrator: In his downtime, tend to his Arabian horses. He owns 12 of them. His favorite one is called Shahab, which means shooting star. He frequently participates The hobby is a remnant of his old life that he hopes to go back to one day.