Translator: Tanya Cushman Do you like sitting next to weird people? (Laughter) (Applause) (Laughter) I don't like sitting next to weird people. I think that's true for most of us. I mean, be honest, how many of you (Laughter) Yeah. The problem, though, by staying inside that comfortable we're actually cutting ourselves off that can lead to our most creative ideas. And we need those ideas, A few years ago, I was flying home I had an aisle seat. And in the middle seat was ... nobody! I know, right? So I'm doing, like, When, just before the doors close, one last passenger gets on the plane. She was ... different. I don't know what Methuselah's but this had to be close. As she's shuffling down the aisle, It's a big plane, come on, I'll tell you what the odds were. 100%. (Laughter) She stops right beside me, points to my empty seat and says, &quot;Please, I am there.&quot; (Laughter) Sad dance. So, I did what most of you I retreated into my cocoon. I put on my headphones, Music ... Music has always been my escape. Whether I'm playing drums at a Blues club And so, for the next Beatles, Beethoven, Miles Davis. And then, because I had of one of my musical heroes, Stravinsky, I cap it off by listening [Music] As we descend into Seattle, Apparently, it's time for the obligatory You know that one? &quot;Is, is home for you?&quot; &quot;I'm sorry, what?&quot; &quot;Is home for you?&quot; Is home? &quot;Oh, Seattle? Yes. How about you?&quot; &quot;No, I have long way to go. &quot;That is a long way.&quot; &quot;Da ... I have not been there since I was &quot;What did you teach?&quot; &quot;Music.&quot; &quot;Did - Did you teach Russian music?&quot; &quot;Of course.&quot; &quot;Okay, now see, that's amazing because I was just listening, to Stravinsky's 'Firebird Suite.'&quot; &quot;Ah. Stravinsky. The Firebird. I was with him when he wrote it.&quot; (Laughter) What? And then the plane pulled up to the gate, and I never saw her again. I had just flown across the continent separated by only five inches from possibly the most And I didn't know it I had completely written because she was different from me. How often do we do this? Miss out on an amazing conversation, an amazing experience, an amazing idea because they involve What's the real cost See, I think the cost is incalculable. Because by staying hidden in our cocoons, we are robbing ourselves, of the creative ideas that are essential The world needs your creative ideas. &quot;What? Mine? No! I'm not creative! Oh, stop it! The only reason people is because they don't understand They think it's the lightning bolt Here's the secret: We are all the gifted few. For fifteen years, in Seattle, Washington, I was the executive producer For fifteen years - (Laughter) (Applause) For fifteen years, our job, was to be creative. And over those fifteen years, I discovered what creativity really is. But first ... I have to teach you how to write a joke. Let's take a classic, old joke. A horse walks into a bar. The bartender says, &quot;Why the long face?&quot; (Laughter) Okay, now see, that was funny, back in the days of vaudeville. Trust me, if this were 1920, But what does this joke - and virtually any other joke Well, it takes several that don't normally go together - horses, bars, sadness ... well, bars and sadness, yeah - (Laughter) and finds a surprising connection: the long face. That's what creativity is. It's taking two or more and finding the surprising connection. In comedy, it's called the punch line. (Laughter) And the Internet. And the Reese's Peanut Butter Cup. But creativity, in short, And these dots can be anything. Ideas, experiences ... an elderly woman in the middle seat. And the more ideas you encounter, the more experiences you have, the more connections you can make. This is a sheet of Avery dots. There are a lot of dots here. Which means a lot of connections. That's good. Imagine, though, Not a lot of connections going on here. Some peoples' brains How many of you How many of you are These are not the people I mean, it just stands to reason the more connections you can make. Which means the odds of one of those for you, your office, increase dramatically. But what do you notice about these dots? They're all alike, aren't they? They're all three-quarter inch, navy blue. Now, if all of your dots then most of your ideas are going to be Kind of predictable. But what if your dot collection Well, you start connecting these dots, and there's no telling what color might be. A blue dot, a yellow dot, And what if these dots And different shapes? What if your dots, the ideas, the experiences, were different sizes, different colors, different shapes ... different beliefs? Can you see the difference that would make of your ideas? I told you I used to produce On January 10, 1987, we were pumped. Because we found the genuine Our guest that night was this guy ... (Applause) Johnny Depp! Okay, in fairness, Did any of you, like, go through that awkward stage? Yeah well, Johnny was going (Laughter) I know. I mean, you guys in the audience, can you imagine having to go looking like that? (Laughter) Well, Johnny was shooting called &quot;21 Jump Street.&quot; And we got him! Happy Dance! Until the morning of the show, &quot;Bill, it's uh Johnny Depp. Yeah, listen, I'm not going to be able No, they scheduled I can't get out of it. String of bad words! And now we're in a panic. I call an emergency meeting; we try to come up Uh, what about one of them Seahawks? No, they're out of town. How about that cute new anchor at Komo TV? No, she's in rehab. (Laughter) And on and on it goes. When one of my writers, pops his head up and says, &quot;Uh ... liquid nitrogen.&quot; (Laughter) Clearly, he did not I mean, we're looking and he's babbling on By the way, this was (Laughter) (Applause) His name was Bill. Well, naturally, my first reaction &quot;Shut up, Bill.&quot; Look, maybe not my finest moment, Well, it's because I was We all were, except for Bill. And in our cocoon, we were That was our three-quarter But then Bill started painting a verbal &quot;Hey guys, no, this could work. You take an onion, take a pair of tongs, pull the onion out, it shatters like glass.&quot; Cool. &quot;Guys, it gets better. You can take a marshmallow, take the tongs, pull the marshmallow out, Smoke pours out of my nose and mouth.&quot; Coool! And that night, this guy ... became this guy ... Who now hangs out - (Applause) Who now hangs out with these guys. (Laughter) Why? Because he was diffferent than us. We were all writers and producers. Bill Nye was and is a science guy. He saw the world differently than we did. He was the different colored dot. And we all benefited from our collaboration The show benefited, Bill Nye benefited, and an entire generation, that was introduced to the world benefited. When Bill Nye, the Science Guy, he'd tape the list Do you know what objective number one was? Change the world. The power to connect dots creatively is the power to change the world. In 1440, Johannes Gutenberg connected and created the printing press. He changed the world. In 1962, a collaborative team connected blues, Motown, skiffle, and pop They changed the world. In 2016, Burger King and created the Whopperito. The jury is still out. (Laughter) But my point ... My point is that virtually virtually every great idea, virtually every great thought came from someone, seeing two or more different dots that nobody else ever had before. And you can do it too. All you have to do is crack your cocoon. Can you do that? (Audience) Yes. (Applause) Will you do that? (Audience) Yes. It just requires you to be two things. First, you have to be a dot collector. Remember, the more dots you have - and the more different they are, the more creative See, that's the real beauty Because you're going to see plus this one, (Laughter) that have nothing whatsoever Except they do. They'll now be a part of your collection. Which means that tomorrow you'll suddenly think, &quot;Wait a minute, That's the real lightning bolt. That's how it happens. But you've got to collect the dots first. And the second thing You have to teach yourself &quot;How is this like that?&quot; Creativity is the spark that ignites So, how will you crack your cocoon? How will you collect Well, here's a thought: Instead of looking look at them as additional Your puzzle. You're just one piece. You need the others And you can start today - you can. Look, have a conversation Go to lunch with someone Take a class, learn a language, become a street mime. Okay, some of these Because when you crack your cocoon, Your world will change live outside of your cocoon. Innovation and opportunity live outside of your cocoon. And those creative ideas, the ones that can change live outside of your cocoon. I'll always regret for that entire five hour flight. And I'll always wonder what that conversation if I had cracked my cocoon, let go of my prejudice and judgment, and connected with someone Don't miss out your great opportunities, and yes, your great ideas. Crack your cocoon today. (Applause)