Welcome to Good Mythical More. We're here. You're here. You know what? Let's just invent some But first, let's invent Yeah, we can do it. ((Music)) ((Laughing)) Doesn't take long. They got it quick. That's right, Short. That was actually Okay, all right. Vines are only six seconds long. That was a I'm very soup sloshed. How much soup do you Just one bowl? I'm looking at the thing now, - [Crew Member] 40, 40, 40 bites. 40 small bites. 40 bites, that might be I think it's about a bowl. I think we just Okay. Stevie, you're gonna my hand on this one. - [Stevie] Well, this one's So, you know how, and there's without sounding like an old There's sounds on TikTok the sounds become viral. And oftentimes the sounds a scenario or typical they're interpreted So the example that we Kris Jenner talking to Kim. What would happen if you And then someone, then it cuts Because people think that as the setup. - [Stevie] Well, here's the. Well, that's - [Stevie] Yeah. Here's the, like, you pair it with another video. So, here's that. Okay. What would happen if you My dad suggested I email regular on a TV show. Right. And so, exactly. So like, this would be Something that you and probably wouldn't work. Which isn't a perfect Let's see another one. - [Stevie] Well, I don't ((Laughing)) So, you expect us to No, no, we don't We just have to, we have to, solicit situation. - [Stevie] I'm gonna give you And engineer something that is said, that then people sounds, just left and right. Yeah, I get it. - [Stevie] Do you get it, though? Well, let's find This is what we used to do when we were back in the early, in the viral stuff we created. - Like something like? I'll do one right now. What would happen. does it doesn't have to start ((Laughing)) No, no, no. It can just be like. What's the situation, Oh my God. You look amazing. Okay. Yeah, exactly. ((Laughing)) Oh my God. You look amazing. But we don't, but Stevie's going scenario and then we can Just, I want you to just, let me, let me eat you. I think he's got ((Laughing)) - [Stevie] Okay. So, your first. You're like a soup! - [Stevie] You're like a soup. You look a soup. - [Stevie] Oh. You slipped and fell, know you're still alright. What? So, so it'd be, I mean, so, you're like. Just, just do it. You make a noise. And then you say something to Just do it. I want it to be good. Give me a second. You slip and fall, but that you're gonna be okay. ((Silly Scream)) It might not seem ((Laughing)) And then, so then I would take that, if they take a clip from - [Rhett] This would be like taking Any clip of me, - [Rhett] Or, like, a video of somebody, like, a people lose control of But that's on the nose. You would actually something where no one's No, I think it's actually, happen either way. That's the beauty of it. What about somebody who's, You gonna do another scenario? Staring at something for figure out how to use it. Oh, and then you hear? Yeah. It might not seem like it, Can you, can you record these Oh, that's, that's advanced. Okay. You do the next one. All right. - [Stevie] Let's do something some people You're eating soup. Hey, you know that, you Yep, yep, yep. I'm in that, I'm in that - [Stevie] On a roller coaster. I mean, it's soup on a it to be applied to other. You want to say something. Situations. Yeah. Eating Whoa, whoa, whoa, I don't Right? I think it's pretty What would you do with that, like if you, are you want to get it on my pants. What would you do with that? You know, viral. You know, so many ideas. That's what makes it viral. I don't want to I don't want to What's something you don't It's pretty literal. It's pretty literal, because you're describing something it a little bit harder. It makes it a little non-physical situation. But if you can figure out you use it in, it's great. It's gold. Right, yeah, maybe Because it might be something I thought it would be! ((Laughing)) You know what I'm saying? What about this? Whoa! Whoa! I wish I wouldn't have brought ((Laughing)) I mean, that's just, Yeah, yeah, that'll work - [Stevie] You get pooped on by daughter down the aisle. It wasn't my fault, moment just got ruined! Okay. ((Laughing)) What, what about. That wasn't good. Whoa, whoa! ((Laughing)) I have to start with I had one So you, you get, you get. Pooped on walking your I didn't think this was want it to end like this. ((Laughing)) That might have been That can be applied Yeah, I think we're getting, The father doesn't want to give his I think we're going too general. I went too general I think we, it has to This is harder than I Let's not think of it. Kim Kardashian. Next time we'll just do doing it, they don't know Right, but we always think to make them go viral, Link. That's what we do, man. You don't really. - [Stevie] You have to, you're when the bird poops on Aw, snap! ((Laughing)) Okay. Yeah, do that again, and it's Aw, snap! We gotta call off the wedding! ((Laughing)) Aw, snap! This is a rental! ((Laughing)) That might work! - There you go. Rental! I'm so sorry, baby. I've ruined your day. Let's just, how about We're doing great, by the way. Leave it to the bird ((Laughing)) Yeah, yeah, it's - [Stevie] Your shoes are really squeaky Yeah, I'll do the shoe part, What, who am I? Who are you? You're the talker. You're like the guy You're giving the eulogy. But she said you're the, But we're like a radio act. Oh, okay. We're like, we're like Dearly beloved, we are celebrate a wonderful life. I got nut, here, let's switch. I got nut? I got nothing. Hey, I'm not squeaky. I don't know if I See if you can squeak. Alright. When. Are you dearly beloved? When, when he passed I was three states over and I'm sorry, these are a rental. I was on my, I was on my to get home as quick as buddy and he didn't make it. Too long. Too long. Let's shorten it up. Let's shorten it up. Welp, he's dead. ((Shoes Squeaking)) Shut up! I don't care, I never ((Laughing)) What about that? That's pretty good, right? What, what, here, - [Stevie] The way you just stared straight ahead. Let me try another one. People can't see, You can't see it. It's an audio, yeah. ((Laughing)) Do you want me to No, I got a new set up. You don't have to say Do you want me to squeak? Yes, but not until When is that? You'll know when you hear it. Shh, dearly beloved. We have gathered this basketball court. ((Shoes Squeaking)) Get it? I don't care, I never ((Laughing)) Dearly beloved, we are court to remember Johnny. ((Imitating Shoe Squeaks)) Come on, do that. ((Laughing)) ((Imitating Shoe Squeaks)) I've squeaked twice. I blew it. Okay. - [Stevie] Grandma is trying VR walks into the wall. That's not there! ((Laughing)) It's not there! I hit nothing! That's not there. That could work. I can see that working The old that's not there. That's not there. Did we get it clean? I don't want any This is going to Yeah, yeah. What would you use that with? That's not there. Wow. Boom. That's not there. That's where the creativity of. How about this? How about this? The TikTok community comes in. How about this? How about this? How about this? Okay. ((Shoes Squeaking)) That's not fair! Oh, no, no, I'm Oh, okay. Okay. That mother [BLEEP] not real! Why do you? Well, listen. You can't be using on this show, man. What are you talking about? It's like. What are I didn't, it was grandma. You can't, don't do that. ((Laughing)) What are you talking about? I don't get it. My head was out of the frame. It wasn't even funny. ((Laughing)) It wasn't even working. ((Laughing)) Do you know what Were you referencing Yep. You were quoting something? I was quoting something. I felt like I kind Then you. I'm so disappointed in you. I was referencing, an better than any of the By a lady who was You know the lady Well. - [Stevie] Oh, yeah. I saw. I accept your apology. - [Stevie] On the VR track, I did see a a four year old kid who was I've never seen something there must have been. When he looked down, and he just jumped, like jump down into the floor. Like forward? - [Stevie] Yes. And then what did - [Stevie] He just heard the mom, video, and she was like, oh! You know, it was one of concern noises, you know? It's funny, but I'm Alright, let's - [Stevie] You hear your newborn first time, but Seinfeld You hear your newborn what? - [Stevie] Saying your name But Seinfeld is You say things. Do you want me to No, I'll do, I got, I Say Mommy. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) Mommy. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) Yes. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) Mute Seinfeld. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) Did that work? I think that's perfect. ((Laughing)) Say mommy with bass sounds. Say mommy. You should have. You should have waited. Okay. Let's try again. Say mommy. That's when you do it. You do it. Then you're covering Yeah. I was like, give it a Okay. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) Hold on. Let's try again. Say mommy. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) We did it. Let's switch. Let me try. Okay, okay, alright. Say mommy. ((Imitating Seinfeld Theme)) That's more what it's like. ((Laughing)) Yeah man, I think that I think it definitely worked. Well, try a hello, Newman. Say mommy. Hello, Newman. No one cares. Did that work? Okay. Nobody knows the Nah, they don't know. All right. - [Stevie] You show up naked to what party, but it's actually Okay. Alright, here we go. You respond, okay? Okay. Hey y'all, I'm so Uh, it's not that ((Laughing)) I'll give you a Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey, y'all, I'm so It's not that kind of party. And just for, Okay. You want me to No, you're perfect. Okay, good. Hey y'all, I'm so It's not that kind of party. You never know what's ((Laughing)) On the internet. Right, right, right. And now you got three options. So you're, so you're Maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe. I shaved one leg for this! It's not that kind of party. What? You shaved one leg? Yeah, I just tried something. You're really, you're really You're really going I think that's good. Cause a lot of times people shaved my legs for this. Yeah, like the I would have totally Or was that Deana Carter? Who sang that song? I don't know. I think it I'm sorry. - [Stevie] I think that one Well, we tried a lot of somebody will take that one. I think they're all going to - [Stevie] Sure. Yeah. The ways that they're we're not even going to - [Stevie] You only have You get into a fender God, I'm so angry at you, How's that? ((Applause)) I think that was ((Music)) - [Rhett] Ready, set, shuffle. Rack up the highest Shuffleboard Arcade Tee. Available now at