Remember when retro video games were finding a bunch of uncommon and rare games long gone. Now if you want that loose copy of the price of a brand new console. Complete Or uh. A lil bit of that emulation 300 dollars on a CD-I and ANOTHER slick SIR. Although we uh... might talk about it The answer? EUROPEANS AND PAL REGIONS! I've wrong so NOW we're crossing the seas to embark Expensive PAL Exclusives, things Americans Sailor Moon tie-ins. Never heard of Asterix book series after One Piece? YEAH THAT'S So YO, it's Austin and today we're talking PAL Exclusives that in ALL probability, weren't released in the States but ALSO I'm incredibly jealous over others... not so We're got a WHOLE world of games I've feel free to kick it back with dinner or and something I'm using all the time, CookUnity! Let's talk about food. We all need it, CookUnity is a cool service that'll deliver high the states! I'm talking people you see on TV, information about the chef who made it and how all prepared in regional micro-kitchens! with over 7 different dietary preference filers; There's a ton to pick from, over 350+ a week Masala by Chase Evans. There's plenty of wouldn't think of from this kinda it's always tasty! They're always simple on the front, toss it in the oven or With CookUnity you're not limited in what you get custom make each batch and it's real simple. and Poblano tacos! All of these packed with on the box so I can have a tasty bite while super flexible and you can pause, skip weeks So if any of this sounds good, and IT IS, watching! Head on over to cookunity.com/austin50 code "AUSTIN50" to get 50% off your Thanks to CookUnity for the Sponsor but for Look I'm OLD by gamer standards but when west. I know we JUST passed Halloween Are you willing to pay 1100 USD for a BOXED Australian EXCLUSIVE banger? Celebrate the journey Daze before Christmas is... bizarre. Not central but also because it's... totally fine? but the Mega Drive version is worth the YOU'RE SANTA. You collect presents in stage times while smacking typical christmas enemies you can transform into ANTICLAUS, go on a quick trucks and ipads. That is if you grabbed getting plenty of toys even if I'm dropping them over the AHEM, River Thames. Yeah, I heard Yeah uh... this game is bizarre. I love that for jumping on dudes, like look at these faces. It's well made, the tracks sound decent The pre-stage reels are a little creepy though... it might be exclusively for babies. For real, who the reviews were all 5/10s and I mean who out I'd much rather play Alien Soldier! Although... I'm not very good at it. AND I $180 dollars just to get my butt kicked over Treasure releases that came out late in the Mega release being relegated to the Sega Channel Solider is HARD, like INCREDIBLY difficult. "hardest of hardcore". Like Gunstar Heroes to challenge an endless wave of insanity. You CAN literally as I'm writing this Sega decided to from their Genesis/Mega Drive collections so... Maybe THIS time it'll come with Flink! No no sorry I mean the Mega Drive port. ....Whew. The Misadventures of Flink... doesn't seem Flink has you playing as... Flink, a kid together random ingredients. It's incredibly if you don't have any potions you're dead in to his weird momentum based movement. The Mega the music is very unlike anything you'd normally changes. It's also just so painfully sluggish of the PaL version will run you around 200 too much to pay but also you're not gonna find We've got a lot of PAL exclusives from the speak on. Several platformers and beatemups with Whirlo? Released only in Europe and Japan, this no Boken. You play as uh... Whirlo? A green guy. Whirlo life before his kid gets some anti-whirlo every living creature to find a cure. That didn't review too well AND a loose copy buying? I have... no idea. But one look at Same with Hebereke's Popoitto... I THINK I'm saying is THIS? The ANSWER is a long running series recently with a brand new sequel. Developed The Saga, something that looks suspiciously like Ufouria 2 lookin all Wii U. These games are pretty loose rounding 100 and Hebereke's Popoitto, a find it bizarre that I went my entire adult life THAT NEW ONE AIN'T BAD and THANKFULLY Sunsoft actually released a bunch of games that never hit the states such as Mr. YEAH THIS IS SICK. And no that's NOT Mr. Gimmick or rather, Gimmick is a released a few years into the Super Scandinavia outside of japan meaning an were allowed to play this and it's also one You wouldn't be able to tell from this English Sunsoft purposely buffed the staff compete with the Super Nintendo and it's the soundtrack rivals some of Konami's best and interesting platforming. The main character, that can be used as weapons or for platforming And I just think that's pretty cool. Not a very long game, not much of remakes and a brand new sequel, but DEFINITELY Earnestly we could spend all day just talking and PAL exclusive SMS ports of games like Ninja but still a cool release that's PRETTY high forget OutRun 3-D, a game I can't really show off version! Don't forget OVER 400 DOLLARS for a Yeah uh, American's really didn't Lotta Mega Drive exclusives too! Second and the Amiga but never overseas and that'll the basis for one of the first and "All Your Base Are Belong To Us" WHICH IS STILL costs similarly. I'd never actually played it's ok. There's a ton of shmups from this era Sorry, not Sexy Parodius, just Parodius! Created other "cute 'em ups", all parodies of Gradius.... the enemies are often goofy sporting 20 block Cho Aniki. Th-there's a lot of horizontal giant half naked people and sound effects so the living room with guests over. WELL, Parodius hit PAL regions on the game with Fantastic Journey on the PS1 penny wiith the PS1 title ringing in 120 this one. They're just solid shoot em ups I don't think schmups were very popular which would probably explain why the 2 for the Sega Saturn. Seems like there Keio Flying Squadron 2... is a completely different CD side scrolling schmup the entire time. That cutscenes and voice acting while being genuinely are stuff of legend... Especially considering it'll The sequel decided that "flying should only no longer want this, probably because we hate the I... don't know if I like or hate this one? a japanese music publisher who had a brief Super Star Wars by the way. Keio and it's sequel the music is high quality, the animated but entertaining. However the platforming You're controlling resident doofus Rami a bunnysuit as she embarks on a quest riding dragons riding trains in volcanos-- yeah it is PACKED with an undeniable charm. I just like Rami's expression who sits there idly with There's a lot to love with Keio Flying it's ONE OF A KIND and it sure loves Japanese out 250 dollars for a raw, probably scratched in case! I guess that's a steal compared to the Something something, retro games market SUCKS. As it turns out, that's universal. It doesn't the console there's gonna be some oddities out you go "What in the world am I looking where anyone should be paying 125 dollars for the JUST... NO. But even then this purchase seems like Cindy's Fashion World. I hope you got a Not only is this 2 degrees but it's spending a months coloring book and game and watch tier Saga BOXED for around half the price. Cindy's You might feel the same about Taxi 2 on it's weirdly, a tie in to a very Taxi 2 and it's weird blend of pictures of the countryside and rotating And almost everything I just said Adventure. Yeah, the CD-I Game. Uh oh. Who is this old guy? W-what is Tolemac? I'm just gonna call it Toblerone. Story as Interactive the rights to make a series of were big ol stinkers. Huge memes too, "lamp" or "rope" and immediately youtube Zelda's Adventure... didn't meme for a reason. they replaced it with an FMV wizard... and then a not convinced they have more than this single around before throwing us into and I'm not how to interface with every aspect of the menus I like that you can totally miss your starting go one screen to the right. ALSO that's not Yeah uh... WHEW, THIS FEELS BAD. On top that of an INCREDIBLE amount of loading between each to look at and it's hard to tell which way to THANKFULLY, some NPCs will give Hmm... I uh... I don't hate this? Zelda's Adventure is 100% unfettered in a group setting the laughs and co-op experience. Is... Zelda's Adventure kusoge? I just kinda wish there was more.. CD-I-ness they actually attempted to make a real Zelda the other two but it also lacks that very DROPPING AUDIO EVERY 4 SECONDS FOR SCREEN grail. Since Zelda's Adventure only hit Europe it this in box go upwards of $1100 USD which Cindy's Fashion World are fighting for the So if you feel like making an pick up a copy of this another 3-500 for today. Apparently Tolemac is just Speaking of Kusoge, Michigan Report from Hell! Michigan: Report From Hell is a game I know MOSTLY from it's horrible english voice This is actually one of the earlier releases from and this is DEFINITELY... a video game. You're in the first person as you're the cameraman unfold all while there's not much direction on because there's a few different endings Maybe not for me but I can see how this has campy horror video games. That notoriety has by the way which IS A WHOLE LOT. That's 400 replaceable news reporters hiding out in yucky There's more games I'd love to get more into European regions only. Japanese players might what happens when you make The Wizard of Oz into game? Really surprised Konami didn't make the runs around $140 so only Europeans get to But NOW for something I bet... MAYBE 3-4 of Ra.One is an Indian Superhero Bollywood film together. It was notoriously an expensive film, However it made a decent amount of money, lots of awards and wouldn't ya know, But only ONE of them costs The Game for the Playstation 3. YEAH, Oh. My. God. Ra.One does not feel real. The whole thing world where a video game villain escapes beat him. Something something, kills your This GAME was actually published by Power Stone clone! Just one without any got battles that end in seconds with people I love that despite the film being the most release, the game is relegated to these image This whole thing is a mess. The best way to beat bash them into an endless pattern. I literally I had to get past this dude with a gun! One shot WOULD NOT SPAWN WITH THE GUN IN OR NEAR IT. Other frame one kill but NO. I had to play this game of LOST LIKE 100 TIMES AND WON ON ACCIDENT AND Ra One is hilariously bad, it might be this channel. Sony Europe had high hopes the game WITH brand new PS2 consoles. Ra One I'll tell ya right now I'm never gonna 300 DOLLARS. Ra One is a big ol licensed game but NOW that DIDN'T come over to the states? There's although I'm surprised we didn't get Sailor Moon for the Super Nintendo! EXCLUSIVE via emulation countless times and it is very single button side scrolling beat em up box. WHEW. That's a pretty cool box though. But that's not all! While that game hit talking PAL EXCLUSIVE Sailor Moon video game La Luna Splende for the Nintendo DS, Sailor Senshi fans what Legacy of Goku was to near as exciting. You take turns playing as uh... dreams or psyche and collecting gems. giving Milon's Secret Castle Vibes but even less the movement is slow and this is ABSOLUTELY only ass adults who are willing to spend nearly $300 never gotten a Sailor Moon video game. Well, Dragon Ball has the same treatment from the over there like Super Butoden, Hyper Dimension the states were the very last ones to latch hey I'll trade out the Bobby's World game But speaking of Italy and embracing anime, I mean look, it's nothing too crazy. It's a vertical the Dorombo Gang. Doronjo, Boyacky and Tonzura. the team rockets, the Grandis Gang from guys in a series of mechs and all of the action of the week mech contraptions each with their damage you play as the three tolling away on You just gotta be prepared to shell the japanese copy goes from 80, I And speaking of Robots. GUNDAM. You know what I played so much of this. Turns out when robots it's a recipe for my heart. But for some Gundam Reborn was only released digitally on your US PS3 in modern times, you're gonna I'm talking gift cards on websites, slowly At some point EVENTUALLY Sony is it's gonna suck ass and then the only way a physical PAL copy. That's pricier than all haven't had enough time with this one myself I sure wish The US got a physical of I just wish we got a new Gundam Musou. But now that we've tackled Anime Anime European Anime? A LOT of which barely saying it CAN'T be overstated I GUESS this would be kinda like French way back in fictional 50 BC. Him and just two dudes doing things around the world, to the Roman Republic. This thing has been going artists EUROPEANS LOVE THEM SOME ASTERIX I adaptations. Cartoons, films, feature NONE OF WHICH I've ever seen stateside... For some reason I owned Asterix and I MOSTLY remember for it's soundtrack being a very large man and smacking dudes with my belly. Yeah ok. However this is easily found for under 10 port however will easily go for around 100. This of the level design has you picking a path at next bit. It's not too challenging although The "Holy Grail" for Asterix games are actually a 2600 is... exactly what it looks like. But a loose going for WELL OVER 400 DOLLARS. It's not even of Taz featuring the mustache man himself. Bit maybe visual novel?? Versions of Asterix and When it comes to PAL exclusives though, the Mega Drive would be the one to beat. Power of the Gods is... a game I don't of it's music are adaptations of Ahhh... the 90s. You again get to play as Asterix feel? There's a wide map to explore with less straight forward. It's ALSO developed by Raider which I WAS NOT EXPECTING. It seems like Uh. Yeah this one's fine. I'm sure have already imported this one and considering next year maybe I'll... check it out? I It sure lasted a whole lot longer Err, sorry. The CARTOON anyways. NOT the 30s. YEAH APPARENTLY WE'VE GOT A BUNCH OF THESE. The Legend of Prince Valiant was a show the early 90s starring uh.... Prince Valiant. who wanted to become one of the Knights getting too wacky with it. WILD for the talking down to the audiences like the WELL, we got two video games here! The first The Legend of Prince Valiant for the Game Boy! isn't that uncommon for Game Boy AND the US Take that smug looking Valiant off the main WE GOT KINGDOM CRUSADE. ALSO a pricey boxed game. one of the worst things I've ever seen, you can The game itself? It's... interesting? It's beatemup where you navigate a map screen opponents territory. It doesn't feel good. At YEAH KINGDOM CRUSADE. The other release, the PAL a word I use VERY loosely would be The Ah. One of THESE huh? Developed by Ocean DUDES and Waterworld for the Virtual Boy, a total mixed bag. It combines platforming with You need a key? Go check different rooms and YEAH, OK. Beyond platforming you got first person bow that I dunno how you'd make it through matter the perspective everything is weird walking jaunt. Definitely looks like Oh and get used to the single stage song that It's cool for like 30 seconds or so then I'm... A relatively cheap cart but if you're wanting 80 USD and at the height of covid around 150. OR older than Prince Valient, older than DC white. The year is 1929 and straight outta Manga character starting a story that ran for Famously, Tintin only had a small amount of as I remember being ALIVE, the 2011 film novels over here from time to time but it was sense cause not a SINGLE game made it over here. Adventures sealed away in the PAL regions with For instance, Adventures of Tintin: Prisoners Directly based off the book from 1949 and using Tintin in Tibet, Prisoners of the Sun has you fallen over the professors? Look I'm not gonna this dude today! But I DO know that gameplay Each level has you trying to navigate a tight timer up in the corner. Take it's back to the start. Some of the visuals the sprite scaling does work well and it you don't get from a lot of games from this some levels having you driving a car or sliding probably not. It's a little too frustrating Which is KINDA how I feel about Tintin: 1! Tintin... IN THE THIRD DIMENSION! Kinda. Destination Adventure would actually be the last reboot film getting some stuff on the PS3 and at once. It's essentially Tintin, Snowy and reliving those glory days. It then quickly the projector and have to do things for real. and couldn't progress to the next level without Destination Adventure is, like the previous a nice variety of levels involving side BUT they control so ass. You have to collect and the idea of pulling it all off in your like immediately replaying a stage just to make This whole thing is kind of a drab. A $175 one up there's a high chance it's not to play. Just make sure to play your best beat you by subjecting you to noises like this. Alright one more game. No beating around WHERE it came from. All's I know is that it Yves. Have you ever heard of YEAH ME EITHER. But the Dreamcast as much as Project Justice which just sounds fake. Evil Twin is a 3D platformer that I hate looking at. It's like American McGee's Alice fell a Limp Bizkit and Korn album cover and what we got Crono from Chrono Trigger. I DO NOT like looking Evil Twin: Cyprien's Chronicles was originally span in 1999 but budget constraints had it held popped out on the PS2 and PC MONTHS before it hit many of it because it's rocking a high price. Oh, edgy AND fart sniffy? LETS GO. You take control of Cyprien, a child with an reasons. There's a whole lot of dialogue, and the intro. Seriously you're stuck watching these you're allowed to do much of anything. THEN level design is so uninteresting that it's super just a pause menu telling you vaguely what to do go wandering around the low res background of Thankfully there's a pretty decent a strange balance to the overtly ugly look with itself. The gameplay isn't that great or a running ground pound. The first one the SECOND of which is impossible to aim after CONTROL AND PLAY AT ALL TIMES which is a were trying to tell has potential? At least THIS IS THE EDGIEST CHILD OF ALL TIME. But to Evil Twin at the VERY least is something. While a unique thing going on. The voice overs are french origin seems a bit edgy and controlling is always so small on the screen, the alter ego's all I can't play this without thinking about Creed Evil Twin. IF you HAVE to try it, pick up the PS2 version it's cheap SO THERE WE HAVE IT, a bunch of Rare and which you probably SHOULDNT... European Extreme! the comments! I had to drop Rapid Reload If you liked the video check out the sponsor today! If you wanna support us directly check buy a shirt over at the Pixel Empire on a roll with stuff lately and I the thing I said at the very end of the SO, I'ma head out for now. I've been Austin and catch me next time