Big project time! Yes Furze has joined have created a huge Tie Fighter and a super Avengers Infinity War. There are so many things big. So what's it like to sit in this fella? gets in to fight the Hulk. Now then, this is gonna and then with the timescale and budget I've step too far, for now but it's not just gonna the legs are gonna move, the arms are gonna move, the most complicated seat that you will ever arms. Now of course all the products for this, all I'm gonna be doing all the engineering, but the involved again, Yes! He's going to be doing the Which there is gonna be a lot of time for talking Colin. Get on with it! the frame of the foot. Now inside the foot is which is here. Look at these little 12-volt of lorries to make the tail lifts and so the whole thing's not gonna run super so they've got all the power. So that will sit in there. And then all the hydraulic hoses can come which I must do now! Look got me Rams. yes! Right, Oh look at that! Wondering what's period of time in March/February I've been ill. I can only just talk again, oh dear! We set the bench on fire! We are pushing my tool kit to the limit it This is one of those chicken or Perfect sack wheels for our 200 kilo leg! It's blooming high up here! It works well. It works really well, it sounds could cause us some big problems. When it The top one goes up before the bottom one, stress. So we don't know what we're doing, but think we need one of these flow divider. Now then there's a shaft in here with some wheels and way you can get more fluid coming through this one because it kind of paddles the same amount gonna stick that on the up, and then to stop the because of course it's got gravity helping Got this, this is a check flow restrictor, so which of course it's the down direction, cuz it to stand up nice and fast, but come down a bit more plumbing to do, and then obviously same thing, or else it'll descend again and fall Hydraulics for dummies with Colin Furze! Put all Well it's not bad! Gotta be pleased with that Colin? Let's restrict this, and then see if that Bonga, Bonga what's Bonger? make another one, put them next to each other and see if they both do the same thing, never happen! We have two finished my switches! Hulkbuster up! Listen to that, singing beautifully! yeah! too bad they go up and down reasonably in sync. build the hip. Now I've stuck this second joint on then I kind of thought, if the legs don't quite up kind of like rocking and tipping, and putting take that out. That means the body will twist So mount some things on here, and then, I have got thing, it's huge yeah! Well I'll say the waist. So do have an issue, unbelievably! You go up and then got a bit of leakage. So I rang the hydraulics thing. Now why that solenoid valve doesn't do going to put another two valves on these feet. there the whole things have gone out of sync now. You can't push it, not for love nor money. probably going, what are you doing? you've undivided yourself! so I don't It's got a flow divider on it. How can you go out of sync? yeah! Do you not Hello! Yeah, yeah! 14.5cm, I've Shine a light! Anyone seen my think the holes will ever line up? welding and drilling holes in this oh! well how y'all can't tell from that camera yes works a treat! We have a set of legs. Now remember all the hydraulics all the components all the from eBay. Now in the next video we need to do the top bit. We've got a bearing on the hip and then we've got some to put in the arms. But I know what your thinking. the main question, what's this thing going Well Mr. James Bruton, Mr. Jimmy up all the body panels for us to plasma cut out, and it's basically a simplified version of the HulkBuster from the New So that's what we've got. in itself. Colin this is a huge project, it is! Now then, next video, next Thursday! If your