&quot;Your thoughts on the Bitcoin ETF &quot;What happens next to Bitcoin?&quot; I got four or five questions on this topic. It's a very hot topic right now. First of all, what is an ETF? An ETF is an exchange-traded fund. An exchange-traded fund is a fund that This custodian / manager creates that can be traded like a stock, but isn't a stock. In this particular case, when we're talking is a fund that holds bitcoin and then sells the price of bitcoin as a stock that people It is traded on the stock market. The idea here is to take a reserve of bitcoins that can be traded on traditional markets like stocks. This is a custodial reserve system, where and what you're getting is a share It allows traditional / institutional investors to without actually holding bitcoin or having to open like keys, addresses, hardware Everybody is so excited about ETFs because we've seen as we saw in gold, the price Suddenly, that commodity becomes available to But the other side of it is that there's always are heavily manipulated. Opening up these exchange-traded instruments (especially large market makers) Not just in the market where it is If you have a gold ETF and people can trade that, then big market players can manipulate It's a worldwide liquid market. I'm going to burst your bubble. I know a lot of people really want to see an ETF But I think it is a terrible idea. I still think it is I'm actually against ETFs. I think a Bitcoin ETF is going to Here's why: a Bitcoin ETF [will be] a That large custodial holder of bitcoin will and give them a traded share in that bitcoin. But they don't give the owners of the ETF that a key holder of bitcoin has. As someone who holds keys to bitcoin, I have who is simply trading in an exchange You see, I can do things like: use my bitcoin to &quot;vote&quot; or if I [even] want to send it to an exchange. I can choose to pick up fork coins If there is ever [another] fork debate, which the fund that controls that bitcoin Their shareholders don't, they don't get to choose which Maybe the fund follows both, maybe it gives We already saw that level of influence. and the user-activated soft fork (UASF) scaling debate; all of that scaling debate with and the various clients that supported them. We saw that large custodial exchanges They were able to decide if they were going of ten million customers. Essentially, moving opinion on An ETF will do that; it will do It will give institutional players access in the consensus and governance of Bitcoin. That [voice] will be held by a centralised fund manager. That centralised fund manager will &quot;speak on behalf&quot; to the ETF, because [the manager] That is a very bad thing. It's not going to be the end of Bitcoin, it's It is going to cause manipulation of the debates it is going to give these parties a Eventually you're going to see them split off Let me give you a simple example: there's a new that allows for completely anonymous, with encrypted values, senders, and recipients. This change is being proposed as a soft fork. Well, they have a big problem. If the authorities are really pushing hard they may feel obliged to not adopt that change. That means a hell of a lot of bitcoin is floating around because the custodian of that Effectively you now have two markets for bitcoin: These are the kinds of problems ETFs fundamentally violate the underlying principle is not operating through a custodian, they have direct control of their keys. Your keys? Your bitcoin. Not your keys? Not your bitcoin. An ETF is a multi-billionaire dollar That's why I am against it. But it is going to happen anyway, because and very little technical knowledge. Institutional investors simply can't, Eventually, I think it's going to create those who have the technical know-how to actually and have real financial independence; versus and therefore always use an intermediary. Very much like in the current Bitcoin ecosystem, and users who have a custodian exchange wallet (if they're even Bitcoin users at all).