The man known to history as J. R. R. Tolkien 3rd of January 1892, in Bloemfontein, South At the time Bloemfontein lay in the Orange been established by the Boer people of South German and French settlers could escape the the region in the mid-nineteenth century. who was born on the 18th of February 1857. from their being descended from emigres who migrated to Britain by the mid-eighteenth of Africa in the Orange Free State when his journeyed to the Cape so that they could be opportunity for young Europeans seeking their opportunities helped to create jobs in banking father was a piano manufacturer in Birmingham ship to make his fortune in the 1880s. in 1870. Mabel and Arthur's engagement did father John Suffield was suspicious of Arthur's roots. John Suffield's preference for so-called opinion at the time especially for wealthy also objected to the marriage because Mabel they wed in 1891 in Cape Town he was in his twenties. Arthur and Mabel's marriage, while seemingly many Britons during this period, was slightly office or traveling for work. During this 1892. Mabel gave birth to another son, Hilary however the boys were not destined to live The young family, minus Arthur, decided to on the common belief that the hot climates which is what Mabel and Arthur took to explain This belief, coupled with the onset of a drought on the S. S. Guelph back to Birmingham in the arrival of Arthur. However Arthur never he had contracted acute rheumatic fever and Mabel Tolkien proved to be a strong independent children and attempted to give them the finest circumstances after Arthur's death. An educated boys in Latin, French, and German, as well they could read. Under Mabel's excellent the age of four and would soon begin his induction her two sons all over England, both to find the family from under Mabel's parents' the three moved into Sarehole, a small village Tolkien's time in Sarehole particularly fierce love of trees and nature. This pastoral such as The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. Sarehole Mill and the surrounding area became mentioned even in his introduction to The yard of the mill, and being chased off by in nature. Though now a suburb of Birmingham, and quiet, and a stark contrast with the industrialised that he had never even seen a car until the he discovered that the mill had fallen into in his words, "shabbily destroyed" by Though he strenuously disliked allegory, it's nature running throughout his work - the villains corrupt and destroy. The trees themselves line of comparison between Sarehole and the Another part of J. R. R.'s upbringing which his mother's conversion to Roman Catholicism. Mabel converted to Catholicism in June 1900 age. Like Arthur Tolkien's German heritage, world view and Protestant religion, which in Britain. Her conversion and subsequent make another move, this time to the Birmingham Francis Xavier Morgan, who was named after in the sixteenth century and who would become life. In 1904, Mabel again moved the family. from the city to the country was again precipitated Hilary had contracted measles and whooping-cough, diabetes. Unfortunately, at that time, there The family moved near to Father Morgan so tragically, due to complications of her diabetes, 1904 leaving J. R. R. and his younger brother Father Morgan became guardian to the two boys into their Aunt Beatrice's apartment in Edward's. It was at King Edward's that language, the spoken and written language Middle Ages. Tolkien's devotion to languages and as an inventor of his own languages. Additionally, met his future wife, Edith Bratt. Edith was years Tolkien's senior. She was a skilled who lived in a boarding house in Birmingham. which grew into a romance. The puppy-love short-lived, as Father Morgan, frustrated romance rather than his studies, forbade the one another, until Tolkien had turned twenty-one. that Edith was a Protestant. was not impossible, as it was eased by Tolkien's circles. While Tolkien indeed later had female was his male dominated early environment that life and would also influence his work. For would have the opportunity to share their His friendship groups spent their time smoking reading famous works in their original Greek, social groups was the "Tea Club," formed 19 years old. This club was founded by Tolkien and R. Q. Gilson, among others. This group the B. S. inherited from "Barrow's Stores" the members of the Tea Club would meet their end of the decade, leaving what many scholars his work, although he himself denied its influence the forties and fifties. Tolkien was admitted to the University of which was only made possible because of his the university: the Open Classical Exhibition a particular performance at King Edward's, Society. Through this he had demonstrated and Gothic, while also referring to an ancient Tolkien's admittance to Oxford was but a the university where he would one day be an philology, Anglo Saxon, and other related for languages, both learning and creating including The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, he also became a renowned philologist. Philology often ancient languages. Academically, during Lord of the Rings, Tolkien published translations Middle English poem, Pearl. visitor to Britain's oldest university even buildings and edifices which are like stepping was lived here and the setting must have impacted Earth in which The Lord of the Rings was set. however by the outbreak of war across Europe. 1914 when the Empire of Austria-Hungary declared Balkans expanded in the days that followed declaring war on Germany only a few days later. After the First World War broke out, Tolkien before enlisting. To be with his T. C. B. Lancashire Fusiliers. As he finished his studies, an officer and writing a large quantity of and botanical influences and themes. For example, for Edith, which was a verse to celebrate become his first published piece of writing, moment, although Tolkien later grew to hate thing, representing all that I came (so soon twee and infantilized version of elves and of some of his earlier work it was all formative of his later writings, with over sixty poems Of probably greater literary significance Voyage of Earendel the Evening Star'; another Middle Earth, the world in which The Lord other work was set. Three other poems about and burned themselves into his imagination of Earendel survived largely unchanged from mentions in The Lord of the Rings. You may Galadriel, a pure and bright light to defeat Earendel's star. The wider legendarium follow came initially from him "trying to world, though that would have to wait a couple hit home. Following his graduation from Oxford in 1915, in the Lancashire Fusiliers and, as in his Bedford to Staffordshire and elsewhere. He to specialize in signaling, which included a great fit for the language-minded man. At Tolkien and Edith Bratt, having known each mass at St Mary's Immaculate Church in Warwick. in order to make their marriage work, a decision J. R. R. and Edith did not have long to celebrate be shipped out to the Western Front in France. 1916. There, he was one of many fresh-faced losses at the Battle of Verdun the previous the First Battle of the Somme, the offensive one side and Germany on the other and which days, with a combined total of almost one suffered a loss of around 20,000 men on the the deadliest days in British military history. friendship circle. In particular he lost members Rob Gilson and G. B. Smith, so that only Tolkien old band. Tolkien himself was removed from called "trench fever" during the conflict, It infected upwards of one-third of all British World War and was characterized by severe after incubation. After being moved to the hospital at Le Touquet, Tolkien was shipped with Edith. Influenced by his experience in the Finnish origin story, the Kalevala, Tolkien Lost Tales. stories which would form the basis of The Fall of Gondolin was the first, then followed and The Children of Hurin. He also started for his invented world. In truth, he had been now he was directly linking his philological on all of these continued throughout his life, works like The Hobbit and The Lord of the in a state of constant revision through to Tolkien's ambition at this time was no less to the 'feel' of his land. Years later, back and reminisced that "I had a mind to ranging from the large and cosmogonic, to larger founded on the lesser in contact with the vast backcloths - which I could dedicate possess the tone and quality that I desired, 'air' (the clime and soil of the North of Europe." It should be noted that he caveated now thought it "absurd". Nevertheless, - he wasn't just creating a background framework from which stories could emerge; Tolkien, meanwhile, had been discharged from bed rest interspersed with some military postings ill once reposted and was often sent back time, Edith and Tolkien began their family. on the 16th of November 1917 and soon after where Tolkien took a job as an assistant lexicographer. The First World War came to an end eventually following the outbreak of revolution back service in it had involved a wide range of the Battle of the Somme to being stationed a medical standpoint. Nevertheless the violence Second World War many years later, would influence that The Lord of the Rings was not intended early twentieth century. summer of 1920, Tolkien applied and was appointed of Leeds. There Tolkien connected with another was a skilled philologist and scholar who Norse and Anglo-Saxon, and so the two men the Viking Club, where they would invent Anglo-Saxon Meanwhile, Tolkien's family continued to Hilary Reuel, who was born on the 22nd of Reuel, who was born on the 21st of November a scholar in his own right many years later and disseminating his father's work. Around applied for an Anglo-Saxon Professorship at This application was successful and Tolkien to lecture for much of the rest of his life. It was here that most of the work on The Hobbit in residence here for twenty-one years, one lived anywhere in a sustained fashion throughout was also completed with the birth of Priscilla It is hard to understate the significance a devoted father and would often send illustrations worlds. It probably goes too far to suggest, and The Lord of the Rings for John, Michael, doubt that they would have been a factor in and the characters who inhabited it. There while the novels also grapple with adult themes Back in Oxford,Tolkien's social and literary more well-known groups and clubs was the "Inklings." better known as the famed C. S. Lewis, the to his friends as "Jack." Lewis was born Although Narnia is often analyzed for its turbulent and shifting relationship with Christianity. inspired Lewis to rejoin the Church of England of Protestantism than Catholicism. This debate been and continues to be an issue particularly a Protestant one at that, would have been and entering his adult years at a time when of Ireland between Roman Catholic south and a long-lasting friendship, one of mutual respect from one another for long periods of time. of this distance. For his part, Tolkien's even though many claim that religion and literature with Tolkien, as some of his biographers state reverent and spiritual work, and that Tolkien a Christian duty and pursuit. Much of Tolkien's sense of the religious that he was not myth-making so much as uncovering created an in-world persona for himself as to the extent that he even sometimes adopted engaging with their questions and theories of his own work and different ways of translating his creation was not so much a different world As such, Tolkien saw it as his duty to uncover the human patterns in history. Tolkien biographer as speech is invention about objects and ideas, One cannot understand the fictional world onwards and which would eventually result of the Rings without examining J. R. R.'s decades, whether briefly at Leeds, or primarily poetry and prose, epic elements of English the manner in which he developed the world at Leeds in the early-to-mid-1920s Tolkien of sorts of the English language as it was and 1400, that is the period between the Norman in England. This, along with his work on the was highly significant in shaping the language Most notable in this respect is the overlap Earth and some Anglo-Saxon writings which edited. Similarly, Tolkien's work at Leeds and Oxford the foremost works of English epic poetry along with E. V. Gordon, an edition of Sir century chivalric romance tale concerning Round Table. Elements of the Arthurian cycle fantasy world in the shape of the Rohirrim Arthur. When he arrived back to Oxford in of the foremost Anglo-Saxon epic poem of them which he finished in 1926, but he gave a number his reputation as one of the foremost Beowulf work have tended to argue for the Dark Lord, of The Lord of the Rings, as being approximate the Anglo-Saxon poem. Tolkien's literary Earth should be understood as an extension with which his life at Leeds and Oxford was It was probably in the summer of 1930 that a very simple story. In one of the most famous no doubt with Isaac Newton's legendary theorizing and hit him on the head, Tolkien was marking fully formed. "In a hole in the ground there down on the back of the paper he was marking. the character of Bilbo Baggins and The Hobbit Still, even with this significant beginning, and support group. This support network emerged more fully in 1930s. Membership was irregular, especially were scattered, or the group was unable to When the group was first inaugurated, members R. E. Harvard, Lewis' brother Major Warren in English Literature at Reading University, smattering of professions, the Inklings were and their Christianity. Given these bonds, and The Lord of the Rings to the other Inklings. his children. Some of these stories and poems However, many of these stories were suggested another as successor stories to The Hobbit. poem called "The Adventures of Tom Bombadil," In 1934, this poem was published in the Oxford Lord of the Rings'. Another short children's which told the story of a man purchasing a inspired by Tolkien's own short-lived vehicle in 1982. "Mr. Bliss" was a fully illustrated himself, highlighting the fact that Tolkien scholar and writer. Specifically, Tolkien as watercolors, which he used to create illustrations as maps and illustrations of Middle Earth Children's stories by other authors from when writing The Hobbit. For example, Tolkien The Marvellous Land of Snergs. Edward Augustine Wyke-Smith worked as an engineer throughout the late 19th century. His children's book children who enter a magical land where all figures. Snergs, who also live in this land, It isn't difficult to see where the influence while Tolkien is generally acclaimed as the was also drawing on a good deal of influential Importantly, Tolkien himself wrote about how Babbitt. Sinclair Lewis was born in Minnesota 1885. He is known for his rousing critiques like 1935's It Can't Happen Here. Babbitt real estate salesman named George Babbitt meaning of his existence. Tolkien was inspired believed there was a comparison between the in what Tolkien called their "bourgeois Bilbo Baggins, a hobbit who lives in a comfortable town of Hobbiton, in the Shire, a region in 'English' life. That is, until Bilbo, gets involved with a company of dwarves who There are indeed more than a few similarities Both Bilbo and Tolkien, like Sinclair's and embody traits and lifestyle habits that sensible people and middle-aged, and do not he loved to learn a myriad of languages as do much traveling to these places. In old the English seaside, and even this he did fact a Hobbit (in all but size). I like gardens, a pipe, and like good plain food (unrefrigerated)." many of the character names were changed. Gandalf before it was changed to Thorin, and Tolkien chose many of the names from the mythological the Elder Edda. This is a collection of Old generally derived from elements of Scandinavian by Babbitt and the snergs, Tolkien drew inspiration "Bag End" was the name for his Aunt Jane's of Gandalf was inspired by a postcard reproduction or the "mountain spirit." The artwork attuned to the wildlife around him. Essentially as Tolkien and many others during his day The Hobbit was nearly never finished, let his children and as they were steadily growing However, a former pupil of Tolkien's named it was wonderful. In 1936, she even gave the of the publishing house Allen &amp; Unwin to read. strenuous revision process by the perfectionist of September 1937 and copies were sold out After the success of The Hobbit, Tolkien hoped initial confusing combination of poetry and chose not to publish it. One of the most difficult was the lack of a traditional narrative framework practically screamed for more hobbit-centered his publisher's desires for more hobbit of the mythology laid out in The Silmarillion known as The Lord of the Rings. names in The Lord of the Rings changed over Bingo Baggins, and he was Bilbo's son. This Other characters, perhaps those who became cousins, Odo and Frodo. As with the names his life for inspiration. For example, the name for cotton wool when he was growing up a nickname Tolkien gave to a curious old man Cornwall in 1932. He named him "Gaffer Gamgee" news or the weather. However, most importantly, love for England's landscape, and the folks the holdover of his childhood love of trees, Whilst writing the first chapter about Bilbo Tolkien was slightly stumped on where the limited planning, the story evolved quite Black Rider to the beginning chapters. This it was not until writing The Lord of the Rings in The Hobbit became the one ring of power. "one ring to rule them all." Any foreshadowing one of Tolkien's many revisions. As he began to write the book which would The Lord of the Rings trilogy, the world Tolkien The end of the First World War, which J. R. created as many new problems as it had solved. parties rose to power in countries like Italy, such as Germany and Austria were highly unstable The situation became worse still following Depression which followed it, events which by Adolf Hitler in Germany in 1933. Years rearmed Germany and prepared for a new war. of his work the life of England was thus being continent, as Germany annexed Austria and and Poland. Eventually this endless aggression of the Second World War, as Britain and France invasion of Poland. This, though, was a war a volatile aggressor which had abandoned any kind. Between 1939 and 1945 the Nazis murdered in genocide against the continent's Jews, inferior such as the Poles and Czechs. More World War was a clash between good and evil. Unsurprisingly, given the nature of the war was writing much of The Lord of the Rings, epic saga as being an allegorical account character of Sauron could be taken to represent evil, while the orcs of the novels could effectively Third Reich's combined military forces. trilogy could be perceived as being Nazi Germany Italy or the Empire of Japan which had turned same way Germany had Europe. Similarly, the powers of Rohan, Gondor, the elves and the perceived as allegorical to the divisions the United States and the Soviet Union who common cause to confront the greater evil have suggested that Tolkien's story's of Mordor was perhaps due to this global context. in the Introduction to The Lord of the Rings, all its manifestations" and although he be reflected in their work, his intention allegorical significance or contemporary political There is another way of viewing The Lord of that the saga is effectively a parable about corrupted the world. Tolkien was profoundly a nineteenth century British poet, artist, had rejected the forces of modernity and industrialization and crafts as they had been practiced prior the mid-nineteenth century. Many elements of industrialization, particularly the sections where Isengard rises to become an ally of based on the destruction of the great forests heroising the Shire as the ideal of what England whereas Sauron, his orcs and Isengard were these malign influences was Gollum himself, which industrialization and the emergence And then there are further influences still Tolkien's epic. For instance, many have was evinced in the novels in the depiction and Gollum, with Frodo being a Jesus-like Apostle and Gollum as Judas Iscariot. However, and the elements of Anglo-Saxon myth, Biblical the First and Second World War, and commentary and modernity, were so vast and interwoven not possible to identify a single influence of the world of Middle Earth and began writing mythology which he used to work out various and various other aspects of both his professional reductionist to assert that The Lord of the about the Second World War. Its layers are Writing The Lord of the Rings was a long and fact, for Tolkien to write the story, plus publishable. The lengthy manuscript was divided Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and a decision which was made by the restrictions the story as one whole story in six parts, the publishers to convince Tolkien it should the names of these three volumes were artificial title of the last book, because he believed he wanted "The War of the Ring" as a title complaining to his publisher that he wasn't referred to. The material which it consists which were entitled The Treason of Isengard wrote those volumes. the Rings was due to Tolkien, having written a sequel to his unpublished Silmarillion - a thus spent much time trying to convince the be published alongside The Lord of the Rings. them to publish the Silmarillion (or the Quenta 1937, but, as noted earlier, they had always Tolkien condensed much of the content into King. The larger Silmarillion was never published after his death his son Christopher edited revisions into a final version and published The Fellowship of the Ring was published in close behind in November 1954 and October classics, launching fandoms throughout the as 1955 The Fellowship of the Ring was serialized on the source material itself. In the 1960s, met for "hobbit picnics" where they dressed The fame spread globally and a "Frodo Society" island of the East Indies miles away from throughout his life. And all of this happened the extensive fandom that exists today. expanding the reach of The Lord of the Rings, in non-English speaking countries. However, fame that came with the popularity of The home would receive phone calls from fans at outside their house in the hope of meeting despite this dislike of the public attention fan mail with lengthy, detailed replies. Although, replies somewhere in the house, only to find continued to write into his final days, whether works. For example, Tolkien penned Smith of story was a fairy tale about a man who swallowed Faery. Tolkien considered it a meditation Allen &amp; Unwin in 1967. town of Bournemouth in 1968 when the couple Edith, who was three years Tolkien's senior, made managing and caring for their home quite attention which Tolkien generated in their from teaching several years earlier. The couple where Tolkien continued the undertaking of in the hopes of finally finding a publisher commenced working on over thirty years earlier. improved by the seaside air, she eventually was taken to hospital, where she suffered on the 29th of November 1971 at 82 years of After Edith's death, Tolkien moved back Merton College, to live in a special set of of resident honorary Fellow of the college. lived on the floor beneath Tolkien's rooms, meals with him. Throughout the early 1970s, degrees, including an honorary Doctorate of was not for his fiction, but rather for his work on which had so greatly influenced the of The Lord of the Rings. Living out his final gastric bleeding ulcer and a chest infection died on the 2nd of September 1973 at 81 years the title of Commander of the Order of the Tolkien's death in 1973 did not bring an had written on Middle Earth, indeed the majority his death. It's easy to forget that only published while he was alive as complete stories during his lifetime, but the other work which In the years after his death, his son, Christopher of his father's writings. The Silmarillion published - was finally brought into print had first began musing on its publication. having sold millions of copies. In the years of Middle Earth, reconstructed from Tolkien were edited and published. The three great - Beren and Luthien, the Children of Hurin posthumously. Tolkien's voluminous writings on Middle man's life and works kept growing. Although particularly so because they do not take into The Lord of the Rings is often estimated by novel of all time, beaten only in total book Little Red Book. Of these, though, it should been around for millennia and are the foundational while the Little Red Book was issued by a it. As such, The Lord of the Rings is out people's genuine appreciation of and interest The cultural reach of the Lord of the Rings epic in scope. For instance, even before Tolkien's George Harrison and Ringo Starr had been touted of the books, a project which would have combined that time with Tolkien's epic story. There in the song Ramble On, one of Led Zeppelin's publication of the books the major landmarks planet Saturn, have been named after geographical of the stories of Middle Earth have had a Jackson's film adaptations of The Lord of of any film series, while the final film in Oscars, the most won by any film ever, a distinction Now the Amazon Prime Rings of Power TV series budget TV show ever made. But perhaps most launched an entire genre of fantasy fiction Game of Thrones, openly acknowledges his debt Jordan, the creator of The Wheel of Time book Tolkien in its epic scope and the detail of dwarves are now mainstream; recognised and his feelings to the contrary, Tolkien did legendarium for his people. J. R. R. Tolkien was indeed one of the greatest the 1920s and the 1950s he created an entire of the Rings, The Silmarrilion and many other down the foundations for an entire genre of the giants of this field, writers such as have acknowledged Tolkien's seminal role it. Others have imitated his work, but while ideas, none have excelled over Tolkien himself. epics and lore into his writing and building and the wider history of Middle Earth remain that anybody else could have written these, life, his experiences, his academic work and the society he lived in, both its good and Back in 1961 Tolkien's lifelong friend, in Literature. It was something of a premature was not deserving of such an award, but because about elves, dwarves and hobbits wandering wouldn't have been considered the appropriate 1960s. Two of the awardees of that same award Jean Paul Sartre, the French existentialist Tolkien's work might have been dismissed reflect the world of the twentieth century fully appreciate the scope of historical inquiry the appreciation it showed for the consequences of these were involved in The Lord of the As such if Tolkien were alive and writing have been awarded this, the most esteemed In an age where the relentless march of technology, a wedge between us and our past as well as remind us of the importance of folklore, fairy the lyrics of Led Zeppelin's Ramble on summarise tales stir inside us, "years ago in days call to our sense of romance, our yearning yearnings for fairy tales of dragons, goblins Lord of the Rings, The Hobbit, The Silmarillion world a new folklore of legendary tales, that countless generations to come, until Tolkien's becomes one for the ages. What do you think of J. R. R. Tolkien? Are of the entire 20th century, which should be author intended and should Tolkien have been Please let us know in the comment section watching.