Microsoft is very worried that so many people are coming next year in October 2025. So much so done before. You see, anytime a major version of happened with Windows 8, and now Windows 10, &quot;Extended Security Updates&quot; that companies can but normally individuals cannot buy this. You but that's where something is changing, and for example, companies can get the first year of and then it doubles every year after that, and buy it past three years. But not only does it you don't get the first year of updates, but you actually have to buy the first year anyway, so same as if you do it for the three years. And the just bite the bullet and upgrade their systems, just gets more and more expensive. But at the same as like a stopgap bridge until then. However, individuals will be able to buy personal system they've never done this before. Before you could you could only get it through volume licensing. do this for the full three years. The blog post However, on another post, they mentioned it as about whether to make it longer. They're probably security updates are not going to include any kind 10 has been getting feature updates for the last there. And also it's not going to be all security of them. They specifically say it's going to be levels. They have an article where they go into vulnerabilities are ones that don't require user system can get compromised even with the user that definitely, I think, would cover a lot. And and &quot;low severity&quot;, which seem to just be ones you have to have some kind of setting that you they don't even necessarily recommend enabling it. I should point out there's an exception for the versions of Windows. These actually have extended version. However, Windows LTSC, you probably don't purpose computers that have a single purpose. They because the thing is if you use LTSC, it doesn't staying on a really old version of Windows that the 2019 one, a lot of software that you use might getting security updates, but it might not work is doing this. Well, if you look at the statistics becomes a little bit more obvious. Now it's going I found. One is on StatCounter for September 63% and Windows 11 is only 33%. The other source which shows that Windows 10 and Windows 11 are the historical data for the Steam hardware someone has been keeping track and just putting it I'll put a link in the description. And then I or whatever to generate graphs and stuff. So compare it to Windows 7 at the time. Now, keep bug in how Steam was tracking Windows 7 market can see that in 2020, when Windows 7 went out like 20% or so. Not nearly as high as Windows 10 off right after it went out of support, but it kind of drifted off still. But even though Windows down very slowly. And it looks like it might of life support. And that is such a huge number. which is probably going to have people who tend because a lot of games require more recent probably is still using a majority of Windows 10, all the talk about the hardware requirements. you haven't even been able to use Windows 11. Microsoft decided, &quot;Eh, we better offer these halfway option between just extending the support, and just offering it for like $30 so they can But really they don't want people to. Now I security updates are these important or critical getting if you get the security updates? And it actually has a page where they post a list of all called Patch Tuesday, second Tuesday of the month. it's called the Security Update Guide. And you can data and then analyze it in Excel. So I downloaded shows that there's around 12,000. However, that's unique identifier per vulnerability, each version So when I filter down for one unique entry per and that still is a lot. And it looks like a vast then there's a handful of ones that are marked as the data just filtered for Windows 10 64 bit, then the year, and that's around like 30 per month. that alright, at least if you do get the extended of the security updates that you would want. I Microsoft has on very rare occasions, actually patches for very old versions of Windows. In going back to Windows XP and newer versions. in 2014. And these were specifically for some the NSA developed. And then three years later, were highly exploited, which means like, they very quickly through networks. So I guess they and patch like everything, but don't rely on that twice as far as I'm aware. But I would be curious extended security updates for that extra year, 11? Maybe you can't, depending on your system. Windows 11 really is not bad. It's a decent it is the annoyances. Like it requires you to use bunch of workarounds, which I do. It's just little prefer Windows 10. You might like the start 10 better, so I installed a third-party program to So I don't blame you. Anyway, if you enjoyed the for the YouTube algorithm. And also maybe consider if you want to keep watching, last time I made a by adding a whole bunch of stuff to it and it right there you can click on. So thanks so much