This video includes a which may be disturbing for some viewers so I wanted to let you know that upfront, but I think it's necessary to talk about these crimes in some detail for reasons that will become apparent. In the small town of Visalia, one of the state's most prolific He repeatedly broke into like cash, coins, and jewelry. He was dubbed the Visalia ransacker but soon his crimes escalated. - Six months later in 1976, he moves up to Sacramento and over the course of the next three years, he's moving all across Northern California committing numerous sexual assaults, over 50 sexual assaults. - Here, he was called - [Male Reporter] The police Sacramento's infamous east area - And then in 1979, he moves starting in Santa Barbara And he was known as the in Southern California. - [Reporter] Variously known and the original night stalker, these were brutal that spanned numerous California counties between 1976 and 1986. - Police believed that all of these crimes were committed by the same person now known as the golden state killer. How was it known that these were committed by the same person? - Investigators were relying on MO. MO, modus operandi is basically how a criminal will commit a crime. - He was wearing some He was wearing shorts and a T-shirt. - The golden state killer - What he would do is he would break into a house with a gun, a house with a man and a woman. He would tie them up tell the man I'm gonna If I hear those plates move, I'm going to kill your take the wife into another Then he would go through the eating, stealing stuff, stealing and then he would leave. - How was he not caught based - Well, he didn't leave his fingerprints. He always wore a mask. He always had gloves on. This was an offender that did everything to prevent himself from being caught. - [Reporter] The golden to at least 12 murders, 50 rapes and a string of burglaries - All right, how's it going? - How you doing? - So we supply DNA sequencing solutions to the forensic laboratories At a crime scene, there's of DNA left and it's So it breaks down. at a crime scene? A nanogram? - Yes. - That's insane. - Yes. - There's no accident 1986 is when the first is actually solved with DNA and he's, I think he's following that what I'm doing here, I'm leaving my DNA. I can't do this anymore. - [Reporter] Investigator the golden state killer for decades. - He couldn't it account and that really was his big mistake. That was the critical mistake. He left his DNA all over California. And it turns out that in three of the cases, I had three sexual assault the golden state killer's - But having the unknown They needed to match it to a known sample. In 1990, the FBI started work on what would become a It mainly stores DNA profiles from convicted criminals It's called the combined DNA index system or CODIS for short. In each of your cells, there one from your mom and one from your dad. And at particular places there are short sections like A A T G, A A T G, A A T G, and so on. These are called short and different people have Forensic labs produce STR profiles by counting up the number Initially, there were where STRs were counted, but in 2017 that was expanded to 20. It feels to me like that's - It isn't. - But the chances of two people having the exact same number of is incredibly small. The CODIS database now contains over 18 million STR profiles. - The golden state killer's at the national DNA database that's run by the FBI and has been searching We did Interpol searching, trying to search other well, maybe he came from that's why after all this time we have yet to be able to identify him and obviously we didn't get any hits. - But genetic sequencing - [Female Reporter] The Since 1986 scientists had the three billion nucleotides contained in the human genome. It's anticipated that - Soon private companies directly to consumers and they than what's in the CODIS database. I traveled to Houston, Texas to visit Family Tree DNA headquarters. - We'll go in the lab about the life cycle of a sample. There you go. - Thank you. These samples, what are they? - So they're cheek cells. the inside of their cheek, and they send it back to us. - It's like a robot ballet. - Yes, so for DNA extraction, we need to remove all of the and just separate it by itself - Instead of looking at these tests examined 700 to 800,000. - The Family Finder test is based on what's called a micro array and this is what a micro array looks like. Each one of those boxes is an individual. We can fit 24 individuals on here. And within that box is of your DNA, that we're measuring, - 710,000? - Yes, and they're called snips. - So hang on, that's like 710,000 individual bases, like ATGC? - Yes. - For each person, you can - Correct. - The human genome consists All people share about which means on average, only differ from person to person. These individual letter changes are known as single nucleotide So on there, are there a whole bunch of like little pieces of DNA then? - Yes, so what we have that is specific to one SNP. So it's one position in the genome where we know there can be a difference. - Okay. Is there any example of a simple SNP that confers some sort of? - Actually blue eyes is - Really? - Yeah. - So everyone with blue eyes - You can see now it's - The results of your about your geographic ancestry or possible medical conditions, but they can also quantify how related you are to someone else. The genetics of having a kid are a bit like cutting two The resulting deck will share about half its cards with each parent and there'll be long sequences of cards which match identically Now, if this deck has a will share only about with each grandparent and the will be shorter, and this The more closely you're the more DNA you share and the longer the blocks of identical DNA are. But to compare the DNA of two people, you don't need to read every letter. The snips are sprinkled throughout the DNA roughly every 2000 bases. So if you find long sections you can bet that the DNA by comparing hundreds of throughout the DNA, you can see where these and so how much total DNA is shared. - Everywhere that is highlighted in blue is where I share DNA. - With your father? which is exactly what you expect because I should share because he gave me 50% of my DNA. So this is a second to third cousin. I have no idea who this person is. And you can see here, we are definitely not as because where the blue is, those are the only where we share DNA. - We all know that these genetic tests can help identify our can you do the same thing with Can you identify family members - You can and it's only limited to really first order and - That means if I'm looking I'm looking for either his We did that over and - Why is it so limited? - Because you've only got 23 loci. If you wanna do proper kinship analysis, you need to have more points to see how related you really are. - We know the answer and the answer is behind the locked door of 23andMe and Ancestry.com. We know that they have Somebody related to him, a would be in there. - Sure. - And that was very hard to deal with. You know, that the answer is - Law enforcement is not allowed to search the databases of 23andMe and Ancestry.com but luckily for investigators, An independent website called to allow people to connect with relatives. You can upload the raw data from any of the big and search for matches. - So when we initially our best hits come back at third cousins which means they shared I think shared about 1% of the DNA. It's very little DNA that's shared but that's a starting data point. And theoretically, by taking that share DNA and using traditional genealogy like census records and obituaries and newspaper articles and findagrave.com, you build this family tree back until you get two of these relatives of the golden state killer, where now you see, oh, they've got, they share great-great grandparents together. Theoretically the golden from those same great-great grandparents. So once I identify that common ancestor, it's now identifying from those great-great grandparents and this becomes a huge process. People in the 1840s would You have to identify each of those kids and then all of their children and then all of their children. So now we have this exponentially - How wide did that tree get? - I think we had over 1000 but we knew a lot about our offender. We were confident he was We knew he was a white male. We knew he was 5'8&quot; to 5'10&quot;. You know, he's in California. He's up in Sacramento in 1976. He's in Southern California in the '80s and we basically narrowed and then it's just investigations. - With a suspect at their fingertips, this spring, they followed him to a Sacramento area Hobby Lobby store and took a DNA sample Days later, investigators from one discarded tissue to DNA evidence left at - Investigators in California to one of the country's most Former police officer was arrested yesterday and he is believed to be the so-called golden state killer. - For 44 years, countless and have failed to solve it. Within four and a half months, to figure out who the and that was Joseph DeAngelo. - After the golden state the flood gates opened and not only single killers, serial killers, every from cases in the '70s and the '80s. - 'Cause, there's been over 70 cases now that they've solved this way and they continue to solve and I think - Presumably that rate's - Yeah. - And there's gonna be and we are going to - But the scary thing is in the US, you have 100,000 cold You have more cold cases is estimated about 100,000 There's roughly about cold cases with DNA. It seems like a real paradigm shift. - It is. Multiple law enforcement agencies has said that this is the most since the adoption of the fingerprint. - With traditional DNA, it from the actual individual. It's a one-to-one type of process. And so these offenders who let's say they have committed crimes and they're just living their well, my DNA has never been taken from me. I may have left DNA in the case that I committed back in 1975, but they've never gotten But now we don't have to rely upon that. Somebody distantly has put their DNA into a database and they have to start getting nervous because that's outside of their control. They can't account for a third cousin or what that third cousin is doing. And so they start getting nervous. And I've kind of wondered how many of these individuals recognize that law enforcement is eventually gonna be knocking on their door as a result of a third cousin putting - Each person who uploads illuminates the identities of hundreds of other people around them, parents, siblings, aunts, A study by ancestry DNA found has 175 third cousins and The DNA in one person will be shared by hundreds of people yet to be born. Children, grandchildren, and cousins once or twice removed. Realistically, each person with nearly 1000 people past and future. So it doesn't take many to reveal the identities of Back in 2018, a study found of just 1.3 million people, of all Americans of European descent. And they estimated with just 2% of the population, or closer match in 99% of cases. - DNA storage is one of that is really unlike anything else. If you look inside, this is - That keeps the DNA good for a long time? - We have DNA samples in here that are probably about 15 years old. - How many samples are stored in there? - Just over 2 million. - Wow. So the capacity is just over 2 million. - 2 million people's DNA - Correct. - Wow. By 2021, over 30 million people worldwide have taken a direct consumer genetic test, the majority of which are which do not currently but Family Tree DNA does. - If you ask Americans, should where everyone's logged in it? - As their DNA? - Yeah by their DNA and their name, most Americans will be or potentially very But we're kind of sleepwalking - There are some people who If anyone chooses or decides that they do not want their results to be used for law enforcement matching, they can remove themselves from that. - I do worry about genetic to discriminate against someone. - My biggest thing is health insurance. I worry about if you have and some laws enacted, it and they say that this they're headed towards Parkinson's, they're headed towards and then rates skyrocket. That's the biggest place that - Once your genetic it's out there. It's not like a credit card Yeah you're giving away something that you don't know what it can do. - Well, yeah our information isn't ours in the first place. - Our information is shared. - Yes with your relatives. - Yes. adverse to this sort of thing, if they've already done it, if it, you know, in a way you're out there. - In society today, you have There are those that are very comfortable having their genome available for law enforcement purposes and there are others that and that's okay. - The problem is of course, those people who don't want could have their DNA by their relatives. Do you know what I mean? So like, if I don't want my DNA to be searchable by law enforcement but my sister uploads hers, - It's almost as good - Right now, Family Tree DNA's policy is we only accept samples under certain circumstances. It has to be a sexual assault, DNA recovered from the And we also do child abductions. So if there's a child that's kidnapped and there's DNA evidence, so that they can try to find Those are the only cases - Got it. - Unfortunately now GEDmatch and GEDmatch has actually to have your information - Right. - Was that decision by GEDmatch a direct result of this - No, it wasn't. - Wanna tell the story? - You know, it had to do with a Utah case. - Where an elderly woman was - And there was an individual who broke in and assaulted her. - But it wasn't a sexual assault, - I think believed, tried to strangle her and left her for dead. I believe he thought that she The police I believe approached GEDmatch because that they were concerned that he was going to - But GEDmatch's terms of service said they would only help law enforcement in cases of rape or homicide. - Her problem was that she didn't die. - 'Cause if she died then? - If she died it would and then they would because it met the terms of service and everything. They didn't take that case? - They did. - They subsequently caught the individual from that search that they - But people within the their passions and flame of what this tool should be used for and they ended up putting a - They flipped the switch - But at the end of the day, it was a violation of terms of service. And I think ultimately Everybody got zeroed out and then everybody gets to sign back in. - Subsequently GEDmatch - I can tell you a new user today when they sign up for are signing up to allow We're pretty happy with that. - Yeah I mean, that's, it's a high number. - It's a high number. - And it suggests that - How many second cousins You know what I mean? You don't know that many of them. Without even knowing it, You're helping a victim's family not closure, but a little bit of peace and why not? - Partly, you could make an argument that if you wanna be an activist one of the best things you can do is encourage everyone and put in the database. - Correct and you know, there are millions of people who have that are not working with law enforcement. And if they want to is download their raw data and into our database. - I absolutely believe in a But I also absolutely to get murdered or sexually having violent crimes There has to be an equal balance. - That scale of my privacy has been taken because of a third cousin versus a mother who's talking about her daughter has been murdered, that scale is way the hell like this. - We're at a point now where has kind of outstripped I truly believe that all the concerns with in front of the nation Supreme Court and there will be a decision. My bottom line message, if if there's gonna be laws to use it, make sure that you're and not assuming what it is based on its DNA and genetics and law enforcement because it really isn't - I gotta keep a couple so that I have access to the - In a sense, right? of hundreds of millions of people. - Right. - And that's a pretty selective sample. These are people who are willing to give up their information - To find their ancestors. - There may be many others but they don't get a say in the decision of whether they're gonna be searchable through that person or not. - True, that's the choice you make. - That's the choice you don't make. - It's a choice you it's the choice we have is what's that balance. There is always gonna be winners and loses in my mind, right? And I don't wanna use losers but in a decision at the end of the day, you have to balance in my mind the public safety with the public privacy. - Is DuckDuckGo, is that good? - I use it. I'm a little paranoid. So it's supposed to not track - I have been working on this so I really wanna thank I appreciate their willingness to support me tackling Brilliant is a website, an app that teaches you all in an interactive and in-depth way, if you wanna learn more about DNA or solving mysteries I would recommend their courses on computational biology and logic. Check out this interactive logic puzzle. You have to figure out if knowing that some of the And instead of just Brilliant allows you to try and discover the answer for yourself.