Welcome to my channel. To help you have many options when caring for orchids at home with organic fertilizer. Helps develop new shoots. Flowers bloom profusely and last long. In this video, I continue to share new methods. To make this fertilizer, I reuse rice water when cooking rice. You can use 200 grams of rice like me or more which is also very good. After washing the rice, cover tightly and leave in a cool place for 24 hours. Next I used about 10 grams of fresh ginger. Ginger has the ability to stimulate plant growth, helping orchids grow strongly and produce more leaves and flowers. After mincing, soak in 1 liter of boiled water. and place in a cool place for 24 hours. 24 HOURS LATER. Only decant the clear water above. I do not use this cloudy water. FIRST METHOD. Clean the leaf surface with this liquid fertilizer. The leaf surface will always be clean and the stomata will be clear. Orchids will photosynthesize better. If applied regularly, you will not encounter this problem. Leaves will always be green. SECOND METHOD. Spray this fertilizer on the entire orchid. Minerals contained in ginger and fermented rice water will help stimulate rooting and shoot growth very well. Do this once a month to supplement nutrition and increase the orchid's resistance. THIRD METHOD. Now take this liquid fertilizer mixture and water it on the orchid roots. Fertilizer from ginger and naturally fermented rice water helps supplement nutrients and amino acids that are beneficial for orchid growth. Especially helps stimulate germination and rooting extremely quickly. ONE MONTH LATER. Roots begin to sprout. AFTER 2 MONTH. The roots grow very healthily, helping the orchid absorb the most nutrients. AFTER THE NEXT 2 MONTHS. Many buds develop. New sprouts grow very strong and grow quickly. AFTER THE NEXT 3 MONTHS. bloom many flowers. The flower color is more vibrant than usual. The flowers stay on the branches for a long time before fading. In my hand is a phalaenopsis orchid with bacterial rot. First I need to check the roots for damage. So this orchid is completely root damaged. All damaged roots need to be removed. Rinse with water. Take 100ml of boiled water and let it cool. Take 1 teaspoon of dried garlic powder. Soak the orchid root in garlic water for 30 minutes. In the meantime I recycle this foam sheet into a tool to revive orchids. Pour filtered water into the tank. then put the orchid in a cool place. and change the water when the water is dirty. 3 WEEKS AFTER. orchids have taken root in the water. In this way, the orchid's roots grow very quickly. If this is your first visit to my channel, please subscribe to my channel. Please help my channel reach 1,000,000 subscribers soon. Now I plant in pots so that the orchids grow in the outside environment. Orchid growing medium I choose aquaponic medium and a little moss to keep the surface moist. Now we will discover together the secret to watering orchids, so that they always bloom and grow with magical roots. With a little patience and care, You will find that taking care of these plants is not as difficult as you think!. First of all, the irrigation technique is not correct. Do not water directly from the faucet for orchids like this. And you should not water directly on the top of the orchid like this. You should also not water directly on the flowers. The above 3 watering methods are easy to make orchids stamp leaves, rot leaves, and rot flowers. like these orchids. You need to observe the roots and the growing medium to decide whether to water or not. If the roots are still green and the substrate is still moist like this, no watering is needed. But when you see the roots turn white and the medium is too dry like this, you need to water the orchid immediately. First way. Soak the orchid pot in water for 20-30 minutes every month. This helps to remove excess mineral salts in the orchid growing medium. This also helps the orchid get the best water. 2nd way. You water directly on the root but do not wet the stem and leaves of the orchid. 3rd way. Spray a moisturizing mist on the top and bottom of the leaves. In this way, after watering, you need to dry the shoots and interstitial leaves. This way I apply regularly and the leaves are always green and clean. When the orchid is watered with enough moisture and nutrition, it will develop a lot of flower buds like this orchid of mine. Leaves are sturdy and disease free. Blooming flowers are brightly colored. very fat flower buds. This helps the petals bloom wider and stay fresh longer. spread enough water will not wilt. Enough moisture roots easily absorb nutrients. If the orchid has enough water and nutrients, the flower can be kept on the branch for up to 6 months before it falls. Adequate watering will help the roots grow stronger. Healthy roots will also better absorb water and nutrients. Helps orchids increase resistance to pests. Hope the video content will help you in taking better care of orchids at home. If you find it interesting, don't forget to like, share and subscribe to my channel to support me. Wishing you success and happiness in life. Goodbye and see you in the next videos.