Transcriber: Agustina Canonica Hands up if you've said or I'm just not photogenic, or I look bad in photos. All right, now standardly, that you just haven't had me But today I want to let you As a boudoir and portrait photographer, I've had the immense privilege of and thus thousands of bodies. And they've all said something similar And this got me thinking. If everybody thinks regardless of their size, then maybe it has nothing So I started to collect that people struggle with the most, a handful of reasons why And I'm going to share five Now, have you ever heard or on tape as we used to say The same thing that makes you cringe is the same thing that makes you cringe Essentially, your brain different to the reality Reason number one is that you've been looking at whether that's looking in the mirror checking yourself out or plucking that rogue chin hair The ladies know what I'm talking about. Your brain gets a pretty When you see you're seeing the reverse and it can be a little uncomfortable. But uncomfortable doesn't mean bad. It just means that it's different because the majority of us are not Just a few weeks ago, I had a client and immediately she said, (Laughter) So I explained to her and I asked her would it be okay so you can see what I'm talking about? As soon as I flip the photo, her face relaxed and she said, "Oh yeah, that definitely To which I responded, what your uncle sees Contrary to what you want to do the way to overcome this is to actually because this helps your brain Now, the second reason is that you may not resonate with For example, those of us we learn pretty early on that our value and ultimately our sex appeal. So I figured as a boudoir photographer, I would help women find And it worked for many, that not everyone and not everyone Imagine my surprise Meaning, I find sex to be kind of boring I would never find my confidence Sure, I can understand that these photos but I don't see myself in them, so they're uncomfortable Once I was able to lean into I was able to start that resonated with and more importantly, This allowed me to relearn So the next time you find yourself I want you to get curious what specifically am I struggling and does it have anything to do if you can switch not only are you going to release but you're going to be able and ultimately yourself So by now, you can probably start to see that looking bad in photos and more to do with how you think. And reason number three is no different, and this is that you've taught yourself Any time a client would come in or didn't like her arms or her chin, I could predict which photos Whenever you look at photos of yourself, you might find yourself hyper focusing on We all do this, even us A few years ago, I was returning home from a trip to Vegas and I was scrolling through the photos, when one photo All I saw was this - my stomach. Suddenly, everything what it means to be came rising up to the surface. Some of the most negative in a really long time were In fact, I almost deleted the image. However, because of the work that I do I was able to collect myself I took a deep breath, centered myself and realizing that my brain just I asked questions like, And more importantly, how did I feel Suddenly I could see this absolutely and my friends hanging out in the desert. And I'm so glad I kept it I look cute as heck. (Laughter, cheers and applause) Now, Doctor Wayne Dyer has said that "When we change the things we look at change." This applies to our photos, When you find yourself hyper focusing on whatever your insecurity it may look bigger because at the end of the day, I don't actually know But what I do know is you're going to see So if you tell yourself, oh, I'm going to look bad in this photo. No matter how good the photo actually is. Now, all of the reasons have to do with reason number four, and this is that we've put some on photography and our bodies. One of my favorite quotes comes "Disappointment is the gap that And if you've ever done any traveling, But the thing is, bodies and photography but we expect them to. Bodies are just biological organisms responding to a series of their whole job is to basically keep you alive as long as possible, and they don't care Photography, on the other hand, was created to simply but somewhere along the way, we determined that every single photo But the truth is, photography is only job like I'm talking one eight thousandths But we've made create some really big narratives like I look bad in photos and being present in our lives. So today, I want to reassure you that sometimes a fraction of a second is just a fraction of a second. Sometimes a body As a self portrait artist, I've seen my body in a lot of different And sometimes I look like this. You can laugh. It's okay. And in other times I look like this. But the thing is, They're not good or bad they're just different documentations. I've just been taught should make me feel less confident, simply because it does not of what makes a photo or body good. Now that brings us to our last As you can see from these photos, Yet somewhere along the way, we've decided that certain angles And for this one, I actually need So if you do have Pull out your phones. All right, we're going and I'm going So we got some good Anyways, find your angle. Look good, beautiful, feel free to be in the photo together. You're documenting a moment in time. Beautiful! Don't put your phone away, because we're going This time you're going to take your phone and you're going to look down. We're still smiling Down here, not out here, over here. And we're smiling. Now, between picture one and picture two, if we're being radically honest, One! Between picture one and picture two, if you had to post one which one are you realistically choosing? One! Now, between picture did all of your accomplishments and No. Between picture one and picture two, did all of your love, passion, No. And between picture one and picture two, what angle do you think your babies, your children, your grandchildren, Two. (Applause and laughter) And we're not done yet, folks. because you have a double chin The truth is, nobody that loves us All angles of you are worthy simply because you are worthy Beauty standards have done to believe that there is a right so it's no wonder on how we're going But this pressure is preventing in photographs with and This past weekend was And when I look at these photos, do you think I see his double chin or whatever his insecurity was? No, I see my dad being my dad. Your people just want So I want this to encourage you to take and just recognize that they're of this one wild magic, and maybe, just maybe, Thank you. (Applause)