I want to lay the roads now generations can use those moon. Get to Mars. Go beyond. That. The decision to move company a market adjacency in size and has the types of revenues and for that Mars colony. Firefly is aiming to be the Most rocket companies do not Starship is capable of surface of Mars and city. In the most remote parts of is still hard to come by. 42 million Americans still broadband. This is a nine and a half And when we first got here, We tried to put boosters at We tried to put boosters at We tried to put boosters We had no cell service, so reliable Internet. And then StarLink came Mike Lordan and his fiancee, than 10,000 customers using project to build an thousands of satellites to Internet across the globe. They've been using sterling now and are documenting on a homestead on YouTube. There are some times when The dropouts aren't really It seems to be just like know, a couple of seconds The only time that you if you're like live the wi fi calling option. Other than that, if you're something, it seems to be is. It's a real good considering our Starlink is still in beta customers in the northern Germany and New Zealand. Experts estimate that there households worldwide that satellite based consumer capacity to pay amid a employees from going to schools. The need for become undeniable. If the service expands to base, StarLink could be key Musk's vision for a colony I think it's fair to say is valuation today is tied model. Generally speaking, is about a $5 billion a Spacex, in previous a $30 billion a year business, looking about 3 The basis of Starlink's three components a stations and the satellites The service is meant for Racer, who live in a that's not being served by companies. Given the high cost of can be as much as 20,000 of providers tend to focus on where there's high density. It simply does not make to consumers in low density The only option we really local Internet company that They would have had to our mountain. They maybe megs a second, and it would monthly price as the We have other friends that us and they have those providers and a lot of them Most of the rates are real Sterling customers pay $499 connect to the network and for the service. Currently, there are no contracts. So far, SpaceX satellites into orbit, but 4425 satellites by 2024. By the time that SpaceX is StarLink satellite system the company will have satellites. And although SpaceX has requested additional 30,000 bring their total to Internet satellites, which in orbit at around 36,000 surface, StarLink and closer at about 550 surface. But the satellites can see less of the Earth which is why space needs so On the flip side, SpaceX orbit allows the system to known as latency. Latency is important for and gaming. Lordan says factors like weather, but getting speeds of about 75 downloads and around 12 uploads. In a filing to the StarLink service is, quote, of 100 megabits per second megabits per second for he expects the service will of the year. To do this, technology known as inter The basic premise is that which is effectively a satellite and connects to on another satellite and from one to the other. That's the stable wire. And if you you have can drastically increase moving signal from one the speed of light rather on the ground. Another benefit is reducing needed. Given Starlink's current that they will need more the US. If, however, they communications on the reduce the number of ground the complexity of the basis. On the consumer side, Lordan technology was simple. Spacex does not currently service, so users are on For the most. Part, they ship and deliver And inside that box, it's It would be the StarLink power supply and the little on. And it's super Starlink actually has an the phone and it walks you Literally just plug this the dish where the app Starlink's dish comes heating element, which ice. It's also motorized, automatically orient itself satellites overhead. But making its equipment cheap for SpaceX. The biggest challenge that StarLink is also one of the actual equipment cost People aren't sure exactly paying for or paying to There's been a lot of a unit, 2000 a unit, if for 499 a kit and it costs running huge losses to And they have to get a lot up for that in the long service. Spacex has been tremendously business, dominating the However, the launch industry is not a large Elon Musk's dream of The key to Musk's vision for The massive rocket is meant capable of launching up to Though SpaceX has not on the Starship Program in that it would cost the complete. That's where The decision to move into market adjacency that's and has the potential to revenues and profits that Mars colony. Earlier this year, a SpaceX the company is planning to Texas, to manufacture its But although StarLink is consumer market, experts for the service to expand. The intended markets for of billions of dollars enterprises and mobility vessels at sea and aircraft Starlink's initial focus on the way that the satellites coverage that they provide. Currently, StarLink is not enterprise grade service, with consumers that are a In the past, StarLink been in Washington, where the to set up an Internet devastated by wildfires. The US Air Force and the StarLink. There is a huge satellite internet. The billion by 2040. And it's not just VCs that Satellite Internet is ripe In Canada, the government millions in Telesat in Satellite maker COMSAT government investment as infrastructure drive. The US too is betting big. Last year, the FCC awarded in subsidies to bring And in late March, his administration would broadband access to trillion infrastructure Spacex is also in talks could earn funding as part billion Internet But one place where is in Russia, where the considering enacting fines for the service. Russia is working on its constellation, which it 2024. Starling's potential provided that the project hurdles. Satellite broadband as a sector that is just and the corpses of former go out and do what StarLink It's a little discussed successful satellite subsidized, either through through the bankruptcy In the case of companies that went bankrupt in the come back for a second act. One of the challenges of network is all of the go up front before the very up. And that creates a in terms of generating the existing constellation as satellites that will be service. Space is leadership. About two or three years thought it would cost get StarLink running in an That's a probably a pretty Starlink is still fairly it's not perfect. Spacex makes this clear on there may be periods when connectivity, but service launches more satellites. However, having thousands the Earth comes with its Initial launch of SpaceX's of 2019 took astronomers by They didn't realize how be, especially as they're and how many there would So if you looked up, you like what looked like slow in a perfect line going So people call them Now, that brought up a which is that because they clustered together, and and more and more of them the sky. Astronomers and really ruining causing all sorts of things like that. This image, taken from a November 2019, illustrates The telescope, meant to see galaxies, instead captured StarLink satellites. While some image processing the trails, Walker says But SpaceX has not ignored The American Astronomical and others contacted Space they've been so generous And what was just a passing became about half a dozen staff that are dedicated to solutions. Spacex originally tried to material. The problem was generally, and they also They instead came up with visors, and it helps keep solar panels from creating brightness. The other thing orientation of the that they were more on this So instead of the whole and reflecting it down to piece of it. The huge concentration of radio astronomers, who say radio frequencies of hinder the ability of their organic and water molecules Then there's the problem of Since Russia first launched objects have been sent into If Space X were to launch requested, the company responsible for almost a number of spacecraft and with the lifetime of being around five years. Experts are also worried An idea known as the just how detrimental having can be. The Kessler Syndrome can be that collide, and they collide with other orbits that are just For its part, SpaceX has deorbit satellites that are life by pushing them back where they burn up during All of space is satellites board, which theoretically deorbit a satellite in a time. However, if the lost, which has happened in ability to tell the In other cases, the may have failed. And when satellites, all it takes is create a lot of space Jonathan McDowell, an Harvard-Smithsonian Center tracking starlings failure improved for now. Dealing with space debris individual companies. There is no enforceable law de-orbit a satellite that Generally speaking, the governmental agencies, have deorbit satellites within But there's no enforcement company to spend money to satellite, at least today. But experts like Walker are and international oversight The United Nations Office already looking at ways to light and radio pollution In the US, the Biden announced that it would Council, which will assist national space policies. Plans to spin off StarLink been swirling since last must confirm the idea. Elon Musk again making time with SpaceX saying its will go public eventually. Musk tweeting, quote, Once reasonably well, StarLink the business will need to Quote, deep. Chasm of negative cash flow To actually make that off the part of SpaceX that potential may seem experts say there could be Right now, StarLink is a business. And if it were charging back, paying it would obviously boost remaining SpaceX business. If SpaceX is still the after it spins off, then that revenue stream, still service. But it's then company, if you will, by separate business so that does go bankrupt or StarLink, then it's not The core SpaceX X business was still in the entire Spacex is currently the satellite Internet, but Amazon has said that it in its satellite Internet Kuiper. Uk satellite maker another 36 satellites into number to 146. The company says it expects the end of the year, though is geared towards Finally, Canadian satellite that it will begin satellite Internet in the If StarLink is successful, than just fund Musk's Spacex put in the startling there is a bylaws in will be treated for people And so SpaceX is already seeing, okay, well, we can around Earth in orbit, but orbit around Mars and then have this expansive not system, but a multi But for now, earthlings are even if it's not yet When they first reached out beta tests as the better And for people like me, nothing. Spacex CEO Elon Musk thinks making life multi-planetary to make a completely can carry a massive amount people deep into space. That's why SpaceX created The critical threshold to One of the most important species is to have have the longer dependent on on the Starship is capable of It's capable of getting a and creating a And I think we should try can. Starship is SpaceX's largest The company has been for several years, but none as SpaceX has encountered regulatory hurdles. Aside from a potential travel, Starship is in many the future of Space X. Many analysts and experts with Starship and therefore create and generate space a $100 billion valuation $1,000,000,000,000 Private sector funding and topped $10 Billion in 2021, past decade. Traditionally, most of that activities closer to earth, satellite communications. But there's evidence that Recently, there's been Focus on lunar. So the moon and beyond. Think Moon. Mars. Deeper planetary Lunar Beyond investment was $1 billion. From private investors in seen to date. Even before founding dreamed of reaching Mars that end. The first thing that it's monstrous. The vehicle is made up of components. At the bottom super heavy booster. Stacked on top is the spacecraft, which will be metric tons of cargo and Collectively referred to as The two components loom air, almost 100 feet taller To get all of this weight task and will require 33 of the booster and another Starship Spacecraft. To get an idea of just how helpful to compare it to rocket used by NASA to send during the Apollo mission. The Saturn five was seven thrust and Starship is 17. So it's more than twice the which was the largest Musk says SpaceX's next more economical than Saturn The cost efficiency of Space think, for for any rocket We are talking about a twice the mass and thrust designed to be fully also much better for from to have a fully reusable cost that is between five The key to lowering costs is Spacex sells its smaller between 60 and $90 million, launch down to under 30 booster. The most expensive it multiple times with one step further, reusing and the booster. The booster is going to take launch tower and arms, which just sounded If it does come in too fast then I guess it will be a The retrieval of the equally challenging. The idea is for Starship to on its side, its heat protecting the vehicle from closer to the ground. Starship's Raptor engines vehicle vertically for Starship has yet to fly any has already brought in some Spacex has new contract major NASA deal to use Artemis program to deliver surface by the middle of Spacex was the sole winner contract, beating out Blue Nasa's began paying in dollars to SpaceX already contract. The majority of SpaceX's launch business. The Falcon nine and Falcon been generating upwards of year for the company. They've been able to through rideshare programs, astronauts to the for NASA and other more recently, been delving astronauts. But SpaceX says golden egg satellite Internet business eventually surpass SpaceX's Elon Musk has previously StarLink business could of $30 billion a year. Starlink is a global made up of thousands of Constellation. Spacex has satellites, but the company satellites would be needed fully operational. Eventually, SpaceX hopes to 42,000 satellites. The service has over startup costs for the SpaceX is currently losing Musk recently expanded at the request of the minister. In early March, Development may be delayed Ukraine. Under the current deployment of StarLink satellites that the system truly providing service as It's very, very difficult able to achieve that in timely manner without currently can carry roughly at a time into low-Earth However, SpaceX executives goal was Starship, and its 400 StarLink satellites at With the fates of Starship intertwined, the pressure Starship off the ground. But the company faces some Right now of of any I'm spending the most time In November of 2021, Musk to SpaceX employees, engine production crisis for the company. Later, message on Twitter, saying unlikely, it was not More recently, Musk said progress with regard to We're close to achieving a production rate, so we're is tough for a complex And I think by the end of produce a ship and a The only remaining issue melting. The chamber is gigawatt of of heat. So it's like what a nuclear So it really is desperately in time. In order to understand this a little bit about rocket A rocket engine in. A simple form. It's simple. You just have a It was a thrust chamber, a You just bring in oxygen burning it into that The that challenges that Really, really high Really, really high means that, you know, first pressure to push the chamber. Has to be able to handle. The temperatures that is As the oxygen and fuel burn. They eject a high pressure in turn propels the rocket While most rocket engines hydrogen as fuel, SpaceX Two engines run on methane. Based used. Methane primarily because Balance between hydrogen And challenging to operate. Versus kerosene. Which is, yes, it's cheaper. But energy density. Is lower compared to The key challenges with Is that it will run actually kerosene. So SpaceX have developed special alloys to temperature of methane. But despite these other advantages. One of the components that cloaking, which is worse kerosene based fuels. But it's actually less of a Coking is essentially the out of your car exhaust. It's primarily unburnt fuel at really high temperatures And that could go into Injectors inside the. Engine. It could coke. Surfaces, influences your Another plus that Elon Musk is the ability to easily use it as a fuel for the Spacex has steadily been production facility known Texas, since 2015. The move has garnered mixed saying that Starbase has attract tourists, and has displaced a beachfront wildlife. Early tests of mixed bag. While SpaceX has Starship launches, the prototypes during landing In May 2021, SpaceX first high altitude test being destroyed. Besides also faces regulatory The next major milestone for flight test. They've been this major hurdle of assessment completed by the Administration, which would license to take those tests all the way launching into The FAA has said it would assessment by March 28, but further if the agency time to do a deeper review. Musk said that if this were consider launching Starship Florida. I guess our worst case delayed for four, six, six the Cape launch tower and Spacex is $100 Billion. Valuation makes it one of companies in the world. For the last several years, billions of dollars of investors and steadily as far as we can tell. Most of the funding for from outside investors who privately traded stock that for capital that the development. Spacex has Starship would cost upwards whereas the StarLink could cost anywhere between develop. So investors stage might be less willing project if they know that Beyond just benefiting having a rocket like a massive amount of stuff opportunities for other When you look at the In space today, the and other. Assets, they were required Piecemeal. In space. Because we were limited. In the ability to carry mass If you now can create. Much larger systems. Or infrastructure that can Brought whole up to space, less on orbit. Assembly and thus is. Overall more efficient. And helps drive creation of Musk agrees that Starship One of the rebuttals we'll Sure, but what about all And I completely agree that resources should be problems on Earth. more than 99% of our towards solving problems on It's important to note that 0.36% of the federal budget GDP. It's less than a 10th Given that this life itself and having an inspiring kids about the worth it. Let's go out universe is all about. 3210. The rocket business is has grand ambitions of Firefly is aiming to be the transformative space It aims to be a dominant satellites and payloads up competitors like SpaceX are Above the medium class, you giant rockets and stuff, They can duke it out and optimally serving the small Its CEO is an industry He has past experience, SpaceX, Jeff Bezos, Blue More recently after that, But even with past rocket company is not for Most rocket companies do not They just don't. Greater than 90% of the fuel. So you're having to rocket right to the edge of And they're not cheap. How about $250 million into tried to fly the rocket the Over the last ten years, invested into about 100 that has produced one But Tom Markovich and others space is more accessible. A Henry Ford, he decided to The Model T. We're sort of 21st century. We have been operating in market has been really you've got a handful of the other hand, you have Until SpaceX came in. Spacex has ignited a frenzy numerous startups hoping to company. One of the main reasons I there needed to be more We have seen 1600 SpaceX over the last ten years. Over $10.3 billion in into space companies in record last year of $9.8 Spacex recently surpassed valuation. And while Musk's of the spectrum, numerous respectable interest. There's a number of within a year of trying to tried to reach orbit are the next players to competition. While the rewards are great, Firefly already suffered still trying to reach Firefly didn't come into spoon in its mouth. It's had to claw and fight And then it lost it. And then it came back. It is not a mystery that that rocket. I got one of those model grade, and that really kind where I am right now. something very different that model rocket out in the sound and everything, After getting his PhD in from Princeton, Tamra working for the US years with both the Air Right now it takes months to go to Mars, but working on at NASA could weeks. All this cool wasn't ever going to see how to get to space in a And at that time, even Musk were coming up with this dramatically lower the cost of access to space. He then went to work at of test operations in And in the process of and testing rocket engines Falcon ones and ultimately I really just became about end to end what it vehicles. Mark Cusick went on to work Galactic, where he was VP lead the development of new launch vehicles like Satellites, which had in the monolithic pieces of size and increasing and And I really thought there what the up and coming new and what the customers satellites ultimately wanted to create a transportation company and start my own company. Firefly. In January of 2014, Mark Systems, alongside PJ King We started with a notion world's simplest launch launch vehicle we could. But funding fell through, declare bankruptcy in 2017. Your burn rates are so fast burn rates here now are on month. So that was the case We ran out of money. We had However, McKissick managed that year, breathing life ambitions. That company and its assets by a investment firm called funded and primarily led by Polyakov. It became Firefly Tom Mark Cusick was Noosphere funded Firefly for was our whole seed round having viable technology to This year, Firefly raised an Historically, some of the great industrialists. There going and they learned from the key as they never quit. This new company has a better technology plan, a other company. Without a To get to space. Firefly has spent the past launch vehicle. Alpha is Firefly's two stage It's the world's largest all rocket, and it has patented engines. It can carry up to 1000 and is priced at about $15 Eventually, with our will be able to do about We build everything control cost and schedule about two years of about one year of to flight. So all in all, get to the launch pad. When it comes to rockets. A launch company is about $100 before We have to build systems propulsion, super light Everything has to be very, And it's hard to test it on not like space. While you're trying to build trying to build a team. And years, we've been doubling year to the point that now. Several at Firefly have come such as SpaceX, Blue, You have to have really Structures, engineers and It's materials engineers. It's electrical engineers It's software engineers and analysts, it's trajectory It's just so many different Together after you spend all and you have all those company, you don't really work until you go out and This is the Reaver engine. This is our first stage This engine is essentially the vehicle. Every engine through. What's called an acceptance. Testing protocol. And what HPE is seeking to So make sure we have the Propellants in. The right combination, as As ensure the workmanship. And quality of that engine We are standing on TSU, use for testing the various So stage one and stage two That actually is where the ignite the engine. So here. Is meant to simulate the Conditions so that when we Once things are rigorously transport them to the integration of the vehicle, pad, and we just do one put the rocket up. We pretend we're going to we've let it run and just perfect order before we thing, which is let it fly Make it all the way. We've been working on this A lot of money has gone payoff. It's just such an incredible this day. Of the four hydraulic I don't know what. And before three. Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! We take a look at 1499. During the first flight, we the engines simply just And it turned out it was connector that that rattled To go to all that effort It feels like a lot of this company to go all that of money, you have to shut boot back up. It's one of deeply troubling. But in the back of your conviction that ultimately A lot of companies over the thing and failed to do so have been ultimately business that is quite And even though we had an flight time. So we got a got a lot of control data, how the rocket moves even So that data is gold. The company isn't skipping a next flight in early 2022. The plan is to have the ready to go by the end of as we can in the beginning Now it's about refinement. And every flight you make easier. We have people. Looking as far out as like Firefly's Alpha Rocket will medium launch market for It will take payloads such earth orbit in comparison Rocket Lab's smaller per launch astra's as cheap RS one cost $12 million per To provide context, SpaceX Million per launch. The company is also rocket, which it says will 8000 kilograms. We've got some great potentially set up with start flying hardware in as Down the road. Firefly has to reusable rocket. These are long term they really won't be able really won't be able to see core central businesses are The company is positioning space transportation We are not a rocket company. A rocket is an important one third of our whole architecture. Blue Ghost is our lunar fulfills the National Services mission. We want our first proposal. It's originally at $93 It's taking ten payloads worth of NASA's Nasa's Artemis program aims moon. Leading up to those Ghost will deliver surface. Blue Origin, SpaceX and some human lander solution. Part of the problem. And missions, smaller science environment better. This program, though, is NASA's push to becoming than being a manufacturer Firefly's not the only one They've been awarding them $100 Million range. We have a couple payloads regolith, the lunar soil. We have a couple of science experiments on the And then once on the lunar studying the magnetic field studying the magnetic field We've got a couple of side. We have one of our electronics control boxes communications and power. We have this lot of the retro reflectors now are so from the Apollo accurate distances to the This is one of the payloads It's called LMS. They have these little shoot out and land on the a big mast that's going to magnetic field of the lunar Sounds so cool. Every $1,000,000, so weight So we've done this stuff where we use a computer structure to survive the and nothing else. The company is planning to Falcon nine rocket. Starting next year. It's all about building the basically have a good six eventually fly it. To test how glucose will they've recreated the lunar Our chief engineer. Always says we're going to fly that lunar lander sim. We use it for our vision You just want to eliminate possible. Well, at SpaceX development of the Dragon revenue resupply missions sought similar The rocket gives you the It's critically important, things in space. Blue Ghost, fully loaded about $150 million of alpha. On the other hand, Million retail per flight. Firefly says it's also and the company is vehicle. We're developing a vehicle Vehicle, and it's kind of vehicle, the Swiss Army The spacecraft that can just transport things that can Relay. Things is going to be really Launches are picking up. In 2020, there were a total of which were commercial. Today we are in something of and we're moving into an basically the space age. When Starship comes online, from 100,000 per kilogram To 1000 ish dollars a heavy to $10 a kilogram The broader global space more than $423 billion, and that the space industry as $1.4 trillion by 2030. Spacex is the next frontier revolution. So everything last few decades with the now going to be served from You can distribute around the earth from the having Internet from the Most of the money in terms of dollars that's been has mostly centered in building satellites. There's also been steady subsectors underneath space tourism and in space services. We're starting to public. The companies start Investor interest in SPACs Both Virgin Orbit and advantage of this to raise I don't want to use. Going public is just development. But I think This time next year we public offering of Firefly. The company is up against a Several startups are working to get rockets off We are tracking a little have been started by SpaceX There are a lot of companies but there are very few actually do it. And within go out and fly that second that elite stratosphere of actually do this in a But once Firefly and other they will be confronted building and refining spaceflight. We want to launch 24 rockets One of the things that's cadence is to fly our next and the one after that as conquering that learning so that you can step into For them to be a viable need to get into other The company is reportedly in technology to competing The contract specified as engines for Astra to use on future development. We're very open and willing are coming up by sharing making a lot of money along In the act of sharing. With all of the activity in selling components could be Our vision here is to create where you can buy all kinds engines, valves, all the Customers can buy things as buy things on Amazon. The ideal scenario in 20 our rocket or somebody probably going to be mission. With the inherent risks in will be a tough one. I don't know a single rocket right now that has not had highs even into its mature There's no doubt So I don't think there are companies, maybe not even companies. But we see the want to sort of team up and players that we think are future. We've already seen that or go by the wayside often And so that is not Everyone doesn't need to can seed growth throughout But that isn't deterring where a future in the stars It's one small step. I don't want this to be Like when we went to the late sixties or early all that technology. I want to lay the roads now generations can use those moon, get to Mars, go I can honestly say this has thing to do, but there's the spark hasn't lit inside feel very blessed and We're creating great 21st But I also just see people will just come up to me logo and they're like, Hey, time. I was watching that exciting. All my friends and it just clicks in my is not only inspiring to it's inspiring to thousands I can't get enough of this, doing it for a long, long