Cutting and sizing of large glass pieces Diamond drill rotates 360deg on the glass surface Suction of circular glass Grinding with a water-cooled sand wheel to make the glass edges smooth Change direction Drilling on circular glass Dried and reserved Production of stainless steel protective ring The entire process is automated The roller presses the stainless steel protective ring to remove burrs Press out the wire slot After brushing the LOGO on the glass cover, the glass is tempered After heating, the glass becomes soft and an arc-shaped dome cover is made Assemble the glass and stainless steel ring Press the vent rivet together The glass cover is made in this way Next is the production of the pot body Brush with stretching oil Use a large hydraulic press to press out the semi-circular pot bottom Shape and polish the pot edge Polish and grind the stainless steel pot Testing the flatness of the pot bottom Punch installation holes Punch the handle The pot body is vacuum-sealed and packaged The blade is made of ordinary carbon steel + bearing steel. The clamping steel process ensures both the hardness and toughness of the knife. First, the ordinary carbon steel is calcined. The furnace temperature is generally above 1100 degrees Celsius. The blacksmith generally judges the starting time of forging by the color of the red iron block. If the heating time is too long, the iron block starts to liquefy. If the heating time is too short, the iron block is not soft enough and is difficult to forge. First, make a slot in the iron block. Put in the bearing steel. Pound to fuse the two materials together. Sprinkle borax, which is a flux that helps to fuse the two types of steel together. Continue heating and melting. Forging. Cut a notch and pound out the handle. Heat again. Cut another notch. Continue forging. Cut in the middle. Cut in half. The knife shape emerges. Straighten the blade blank by hammering. Continue heating. Pound out the flat surface to prepare for making the handle. Mark the handle area. Cut off the excess. Return to the furnace for calcination. Make the knife handle. Weld the handle joint. Return to the furnace for calcination. Hot forging the blade. Continue pounding while hot to forge a thin blade. Make markings. Cut off the excess. Stamp the logo. Place the knife in mineral sand to keep warm for two hours. Cold forging. Make markings. Cut off the excess. Roughly grind and shape the blade. Sharpen the blade. Normalizing: heat in an electric furnace to 940 degrees Celsius. Quench when the temperature drops to 855 degrees Celsius. Remove oil. Temper at 170 degrees Celsius for one hour. Straighten. Roughly grind the blade edge. Water-grind the blade edge. Roughly grind with a 400 grit sharpening stone. Fine-grind with an 800 grit sharpening stone. Fine-grind with a 1000 grit sharpening stone. Polish the blade. Polish the blade body. Apply glue to fix the wooden handle. Drill after the glue has solidified for half an hour. Secure. Roughly grind the handle. Fine-grind the handle. Polish and wax the knife. Test the sharpness. Laser cutting machine cutting steel This process is fully automated and laser cutting has a very high efficiency Pipe bending machine shapes steel into desired form Punching with a stamping machine Spot welding machine welds steel and screws together Workers are welding different steel materials together The welding temperature is very high, and there are sparks flying around. The heat can turn the steel red-hot This is a very experienced master craftsman It's impressive to see a female welder working After cutting and welding, many steel materials During the process of removing burrs, there are This is the spray painting workshop, where the steel The workers hang the steel materials They use an air gun to remove dust from the surface The steel materials are transported into the Inside the booth, machines spray paint on both sides of The workers are currently assembling This worker is threading the brake controller and cable harness through a steel tube and securing them with screws Assembling the exercise bike wheel Installing the belt assembly Putting on the bicycle brake pads Adjusting the brake system of the assembled exercise bike The installed brake cable should not be too tight or too loose Tightening the screws Attaching the accessories and instructions manual There are more models of exercise bikes available The factory uses environmentally friendly ABS raw materials imported from South Korea raw material drying Environmentally friendly ABS particles are stirred to prevent them from agglomerating injection molding Take material and demould Machine pressed plastic case Each end of a triangular cone with embedded spherical permanent magnets Compression seal Add permanent magnet first re-compression seal Rivet fixed seal This is a fully automatic magnetic chip packaging machine Add permanent magnet Compression seal This is a special equipment for automatic packaging of triangular magnetic sheets drop permanent magnet Then put the lining paper Finally, the packaging workshop Product weighing check According to different shapes, you can build a variety of magnetic toys Pressing shoe insoles and uppers with molds on a hydraulic press Sewing the inner lining of the shoes with a sewing machine Making the shoe straps Sewing on the logo Finally seeing a male worker Sewing on the &quot;YOUR DUCK&quot; character strip Showing you what it means to thread a needle Sewing the insoles and uppers together Trimming the shoes and cutting off the excess threads Piles of semi-finished shoe uppers stacked together Taking out the shoe uppers from the oven Fixing the shoe uppers in the molds and securing them with thick thread knots The workers operate very skillfully This is the injection molding area, mainly for injection molding shoe soles Heating the rubber material above and injecting it into the shoe sole mold below The workers put the previously sewn shoe uppers into the molds The injection molding machine on top presses the shoe soles, and a pair of shoes is quickly completed This is the second shoe-making process, where workers first place the shoe uppers in the shoe lasts This is a complete assembly line The workers apply glue to the edge of the shoe uppers Drying This is PU/PVC processing agent, which can improve the flexibility, elasticity, wear resistance, etc. of plastics The workers assemble the shoe soles and uppers The machine presses and reinforces the shoe uppers Applying glue around the shoe soles Drying The machine presses and reinforces the shoe uppers again Removing the shoe lasts Attaching the label