So when it comes to horror movies, there can be quite Some Christians believe and should be avoided And others believe that it's fiction. So, so long as what's being consumed to be not real, Whether or not believers or play creepy games is a common question So if you're someone that's trying that should help you reach a conclusion Step number one understand the reality of demons When he, Jesus, had come to the other there met him two demon possessed men exceedingly fierce, And suddenly they cried out, saying, you Son of God, have you come here In this passage, and he and his disciples came across And later in the passage, So to begin this conversation of whether I need everyone to understand that demons and the devil are, in fact, real. And the huge issue that I have is that they play around I'll give you an example of I actually used to really enjoy Back when I was in junior high, my uncle and my cousin so I'd regularly watch them with them. So every now and then, a scary And one night I found myself horror film that was essentially And right before someone got abducted, And then you'd hear these aliens talk. And in the film, I guess they did an And they figured out that the aliens said, So going back to the film, the alien responded, I am God. And immediately my mind went to the Bible being that I can think of in the Bible Realizing this made me think because these creators blended to close to spiritual realities. You see, according to the Bible, They actually have thoughts and minds And the entertainment industry paints outfit with little horns and a pitchfork, as cute anime girls, or as beings And biblically speaking, spiritual entities that are physically And they have the capacity to interact So before you decide whether or not know that there are unseen I personally stay away from all horror movies that involve demons, And it's this I do not want to open myself I mean, think about it. Church is really a way for us to open God is a spirit. There's the Holy Spirit. And according to the Bible, we as children so that we can be in greater connection And how do we strengthen our connection Prayer and his word. Now that's one side of the spectrum. There's another side. And Christians would be fools open themselves up to the other side. Because if people could and are able way, people are also able to connect So in movies, start talking about demons. I stop watching immediately And I know everything I need to know So I don't need it in a movie. And something that really makes me because they're honestly where there's communication So all that to say, the first thing watching horror movies And the Bible warns us against the enemy. Ephesians 612 tells us that we don't war but spiritual ones. So any form of media that tries to tell me I try to avoid because I prefer not Step number two understand what's fiction. John chapter 17, verse 17. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. In this passage, Jesus is talking asks God the Father And then Jesus says that God's Word is and truth here means reality And I don't think it's wrong to dabble So let me explain. Both C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien were believers in God Lewis and the Chronicles of Narnia and They both loved God, believed in him, dragons and dark forces were a lot of themes and honestly, our creativity through made up worlds Personally, I love the world of Pokemon and there's nothing really real But the point I'm making is the idea that people should understand what is true For example, one concept that's thrown Biblically speaking, People, when they die, either So any spiritual being on earth angels, or a demon So for me, when I see a cute, adorable I know it's not real and I'm going and I don't have an intellectual debate where I'm thinking, and I don't agree with ghost, Now, in my mind, ghosts are no different little monsters that occasionally have I know they are just like dragons, So because I know they're only there for entertainment, But that's only There is another side. So look at step number three. Understand what will hurt your conscience. First Corinthians chapter There may be so-called gods, and some people actually worship But we know that there is only one God, and we live for him. And there's only one Lord, God made everything and through However, not all believers know this. Some are accustomed So when they eat food they think of it and their weak consciences are violated. In this passage, the Corinthian church and it was one based on eating food offered to idols they weren't allowed to eat that food And another group of people because there's no such thing There's only the one true God. So eating that food is okay. And Paul describes as having a weaker conscience see past the fact And he concludes the passage by mentioning their freedom to eat meat their Christian brothers So at that point in mind, that I'd like to mention here. I think horror is a fictional genre that people can partake of food Then I think that if there's okay for Christians to dive into a world However, pay attention to how Paul calls the conscience of certain Christians and levels of strength is something Jesus was in a state of greater weakness and Elijah, when running for his life was in a place of emotional weakness. So as an application point, puts someone's mind then it would not be wise for them For me personally, there was a time and after watching that weird alien one, I stopped watching horror movies But after a few years, movie that came out that had nothing to do And after I watched it, And it was hard to go to bed that night. And that's when I realized I really shouldn't watch things that So that's me. I have other friends that honestly just love monsters, So for them, they're really unaffected because in their minds, it's fake. And watching doesn't leave them So to make things concise, if they can watch horror movies, If horror movies Because if a horror movie would leave you fearful or anxious, with that imaginary world to the point then I would probably say it's unwise And to close this video. Let's look at our final step. Step number four understand Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 19. Today I have given you the choice between blessings and curses. Now I call on heaven and earth to witness Oh, that you would choose life so In this passage, Moses understands is coming to a close and he tells Israel and to either obey God or disobey God. And then he encourages them to obey God. So what I want you to understand God gave Adam and Eve the choice And people today have the choice so that they can spend an eternity And many people in the comment section can I watch this anime or watch this show? Or can I watch horror movies? And I never respond to those comments Reason number one it depends on the person I think that people should come they do something, because even if I do it won't matter if they don't have the So should Christians watch horror movies? My quick answer if it has demons, because people should not open themselves because it does exist. Also, or a fear, then I would also suggest And if what you're watching brings you then I would also say don't watch it. And I say that Like it might be fiction, but I value people and I think So it hurts my mind to see people because then my mind will wander, if any of those things happened to me And I just don't like that. But no one understands that. Those are my personal convictions, and my goal for this video I personally think that certain Christians with their faith being just as strong with God as they were And I know there's Christians and anything that's a fear is not of God And I agree with that. And I will say that if a movie leaves at night, then they probably shouldn't And a fearful state is what But in my experience, I know of horror movies with fun monsters And I would say that they have the freedom But all that to say, my main encouragement if you have the freedom or play a certain game, and to really reflect So again, Answer it depends on the movie. It depends on the Christian, Okay, so if you're curious on whether I would encourage you to take these four Understand what's fiction. Understand what will hurt your conscience, and understand You know something hilarious? I was thinking as I was writing Wouldn't that be funny? But I know that many of our watchers So this is me being sensitive with a random picture of Bluey Yeah. Self control. But too close. My hope for Christians where they can look at any piece of media and go to God about it, Because something can be but it can be damaging to them personally. So please be careful and wise And one thought I do hope that Jesus loves you. Thanks so much for watching. If you'd like to support us you can donate to our PayPal It helps us to pay our teachers, And another way you can support us you haven't already, by leaving a comment So thank you so much again