- &quot;Dear Jodie, that I will be killed [shots firing] &quot;This letter is being written before I leave - I heard a noise, and I thought [gunshots] I didn't know I was shot. And just then I coughed and I had a handful - You were looking - Absolutely, yes, - I think John Hinckley for the rest of his life. I think he is a time bomb. [drum roll] - Seven days [fanfare] A welcome home ceremony For 52 American hostages in Iran, freed after 444 days It is a celebration that might had would-be assassin succeeded the first time he had Ronald Reagan Tuesday, January 20th, president-elect Reagan heads across a square Detective Thomas Kaschak was among watching a crowd One man seemed different. - If somebody got he would make sure that so that he was right there - always right there - Kaschak was suspicious. - Maybe there's something wrong. Maybe something I actually wanted to go over - He asked his lieutenant the president's on his way. Let's not make a scene. Wait until later. Seventy days later Kaschak looked at a TV screen - I immediately recognized him at St. John's Church - Who was? - John Hinckley. - John Hinckley, 25 years old, a college dropout, a drifter Years ago in a phone call Hinckley would confirm then an NBC reporter, that - Hinckley said he was across on the sidewalk that morning. - And he admitted to you - I asked him did he have a gun? He said, yes. I asked, was it loaded? Yes, he said. - Was he planning - He said, - At that very hour, the American hostages in Iran to board an airplane to freedom - They were on both side of us. They were jostling us, punching at you, just screaming [crowd yelling] &quot;Death to America.&quot; - Alan Golacinski at the U.S. Embassy When it was overrun in November 1979. - At one point, burn me alive. - The Iranian revolutionaries blindfolded in the streets, - We went through Some of them were large scale where they gathered had us stand up against the wall and went through the ready, and then you got a click. My fear wasn't being killed, and certainly, that was a fear. My greater fear was being left - The Iranians hated The hostages would not be free that inaugural day. - We were given to believe that this was the final payback - In those last hours, were being taken to the airport there was still uncertainty. - You know, until we got there was... I mean, this went right down of the Iranian government. - In Washington, was arriving at the church, he was asked about the hostages Still waiting, he said. Kaschak was still watching Hinckley as the crowd - And he kind of got as the crowd kind of pushed up boom, the president was inside. And I turned around to look in the crowd So I don't know what happened - Our producer asked Hinckley - He said the limousine and there were too many people. - Ambassador Bruce Laingen was the top-ranking hostage He never knew of Hinckley's before he could be sworn until we told Laingen - That could have changed Even the attempt possibly upside down. - Worst-case scenario is that - At noon, Reagan - I, Ronald Reagan, - I, Ronald Reagan, - During the ceremony, homeward bound. - If he wouldn't have been the hostages would have never - Hinckley went home Only six days he would sign in at this basement [shots fired] Later, in Hinckley's home, the FBI would find three bullet holes [shots fired] - You talking to me? You talking to me? - At trial, the jury had watched the movie The disturbed cabbie, would practice on a gun range to assassinate But spotted by the Secret About the same time, obsessed with this 12-year-old played by child actress and offers to rescue her - I don't know - Suck on this. - Oh--oh--ooh-- - In the end, And other predators. Then becomes a hero as the young girl is returned Early in March 1981, three weeks before John Hinckley would leave of Jodie Foster's dorm room - Jodie Foster love, just wait. I'll rescue you very soon. Please cooperate. - At 18, Jodie Foster had in the fall of 1980. Hinckley followed her there. He phoned her twice - Who is this? Oh, no, who is this? - Is this Jodie? - Who is this? - This is John. - John who? Oh, no, not you again. - Hinckley - Look, I really can't talk Do me a really big favor. You understand why I can't, carry on these conversations You understand and it's just not done. It's not fair and it's rude. - Oh, well, I'm not dangerous. I promise you. - Well, I understand that but it's just... - So you just don't - No, it's been really - A dozen days later, the dropout who said began stalking Jerry Parr is the Secret This TV footage was shot Ohio, on October 2nd, 1980. - It shows him in a crowd are about seven You could see a little short guy - One week later, Tennessee, on the day the president was holding - Only a few miles away at the Nashville Airport, for the first time with guns as he tried to leave the city. Yet he would slip allowed to go free When Hinckley put his bag a suspicious image showed up Airport policeman John Lynch. - The bag did reveal a weapon. - Actually, three revolvers. When Lynch opened Hinckley's He sees the guns. Hinckley was arrested, and released on bond. The FBI was notified, but the Secret Service - We never made the connection. This business really difficult. - Only four days later, in Dallas, Texas, buying Again, a pair of .22 revolvers plus bullets for just It was this gun that Hinckley would use to shoot Pawn shop owner Isaac Goldstein. - It hurts me that It could have been bought - That fall, Hinckley's in this Denver suburb would have Nevertheless, in November this anonymous letter - &quot;There is a plot underway Foster from Yale University No ransom. She's being taken No joke!&quot; - By now, Hinckley's attention to Ronald Reagan, Hinckley bought this postcard, and wrote on the back, - &quot;Dear Jodie, Don't they make One day you and I will occupy and the peasants Until then, please do your best You are a virgin, aren't you? Love, John.&quot; - December 10, President-elect Reagan John Hinckley lay in wait but never managed to be there - William J. Casey to be Director - The next day, December the new cabinet was announced inside the Mayflower Hotel. Hinckley was somewhere with a gun expecting Reagan - Was he prepared - He said, so that's why nothing - Hinckley went home signing in at this basement a few days after Christmas. [shots fired] And again on the Monday [shots fired] In the first week John Hinckley came back to Yale clearly more disturbed. At this dorm, he left that note &quot;Just wait, I'll rescue you Then on his final night here March 6, under the door to her room. - &quot;Jodie, goodbye! I love you six trillion times. Don't you maybe You must admit I'm different. It would make all John Hinckley, of course.&quot; - When Hinckley flew back his father forced him to stay not allowed to come home At the end of the month, to Washington, D.C. Sunday, March 29, Hinckley at the Park Central Hotel The next day, found opened to the president's daily at the Hilton Hotel. Soon...gunfire. [commotion, screams] - March 30, 1981, this would be the sixth time would stalk either or President Reagan while armed and dangerous. This time he left no doubt. He planned to succeed. In his hotel room, left behind this love letter It began... - &quot;Dear Jodie, there is a definite possibility that I will be killed It is for this very reason this letter now.&quot; - Two days later at Yale, the freshman student she did not even know - I've never met, spoken to or in any way with one John W. Hinckley. - Even so, Hinckley writes and ends his letter - &quot;I will admit to you I'm going ahead is because I just cannot wait This letter is being written I leave for the Hilton Hotel. Jodie, I'm asking you to please and at least give me the chance to gain your respect and love. I love you forever, - Shelly Fielman was the NBC waiting outside the hotel - Not only was it a miserable but when we got to the Hilton, one rope line - You can see Fielman in front under the umbrella in this photo taken - And the rest of the people people who were at the hotel. And the young fellow back there over my right shoulder - For Reagan, to a labor organization. - Government's first duty not run their lives. - As the president walked out, that's Jerry Parr, now Reagan's In the background, Look at the cops. What are they looking at? - At Reagan. - Instead of... - Away into the crowd. - The president - I heard a noise when we came and was headed for the and I heard some noise and I thought - This is Fielman's NBC video played You can see Reagan emerging at the far right of the screen. - Everything is so fast, [shots fired] [commotion, screams] - Six shots [Secret Service shouting] Sergeant Herbert Granger of the local police detail. - This is me coming out. Here he just waved. And as soon as he waved there was this pop, pop. - Granger turned toward You can see Hinckley in this evidence photo. - He was kind of crouched from the... just totally holding and looking over the gun in this motion, but each time - Did he ever say anything? - I never heard him - Prosecutors replayed for the jury in slow motion. - The police officer because he turned around. - A Secret Service agent beside - He jumps in front grabs his chest - The NBC cameraman and caught - You saw the two hands - Hinckley's hands - Then I immediately - Granger This is you coming on top. - Secret Service agent Jerry Parr was already - One of the Secret just seized me here headfirst into the limo. - And as we go in, I go in on top of him. I'm sure I hit my radio or my gun or something - And I said, Jerry, get off, I think you've broken And he got off very quickly. - Inside the limo, was all right. - I didn't know I was shot. - I ran my hands up and felt all around - You're feeling for blood. - Looking for blood. I ran my hands up - And just then, I coughed and I had a handful - But he took out a napkin out He took it out There was a lot of blood that got on my London And he said, I think And I said, let me look. And it was pretty profuse, - So I said to him, I guess the broken rib Well, he simply turned and said, and we were on our way. - The first bulletin. - We interrupt... Shots reported fired outside where President Reagan Here's Bernard Shaw - Bob, as you can understand, We don't know precisely... - What happened... pardon me. Okay, my apology. Details are very sketchy We don't know precisely We don't know the sequence. First of all, - At the hotel, was buried beneath - It was like a pyramid but there's a hole in this pile So I zoomed into this hole and there's this picture his eyes wide open - Granger was pinned inside He felt something beneath - I pulled my leg out - You can see the gun Three men lay nearby, shot, - Press secretary went down. - All three would survive, would never be able to return Agents rushed Hinckley over The rear door would not open. He was hustled into a second John Hinckley had disappeared for the next 32 years. When the president's limo pulled that day, Reagan wanted - He hitched his pants up - This is a magazine artist's - He walked in about maybe - And the nurse met me I was having and what I thought it was. And the next thing I knew then to rubber and I wound up - And I thought when he was lying there I did think we had lost him. - Dr. Wesley Price at George Washington the afternoon of the shooting. He happened to look out - Yes, there was a large group going around Washington Circle so I knew something was up. - He headed down and saw the president - When I walked in, he was walking right back to the trauma area. Well, - Did he look like a sick man? - He was pale, in terms of his breathing. We didn't even know he had been But it wasn't clear He didn't look very good. The very first blood pressure - As Reagan lay on the gurney, - I was wearing a suit I'd ever worn it. It was brand-new, and cutting it off of me. - We rolled him over to look There was an entrance... a bullet entrance wound The Secret Service was there. They were telling us They didn't actually believe - They did something which was look at his armpit. It was a little slit, - Once we saw the entrance that he had been shot. - Left behind at the shooting the military aide who always carrying in this briefcase the secret codes Richard Allen, Reagan's national told us the wounded president - He had a miniaturized version of the football I knew he carried it I didn't know... that it was in a sock When the president's clothes in order to prepare him they took his socks off, the card, the little card, and it fell to the floor. - It's a good story, but not quite. An agent in the room said in Reagan's coat pocket. Someone tossed it into a pile and the secret code to start in one of Reagan's shoes. [dramatic music] But Reagan on the gurney to any sudden foreign attack, and neither the first George Bush, that afternoon for a speech. At the White House, Secretary of State but his plane didn't Allen says Haig was trying - George, George, Al Haig! Turn around. Turn around! - But Haig could not tell In the emergency room, Secret Service agent Jerry Parr worried Reagan might not live. - Blood pressure was so either that I felt he was slipping - He was going to die. - You were looking - Absolutely. - They said that I was very near And I had also lost more than half - It was probably around 40 - What? - Yes. - Forty percent? - Yes, at least. - In war, - Yes. Exactly right. That's the term we would use, - Seen here in 1981, Dr. Joseph Giordano was head He drained the blood flooding and replaced it - He had gone I'm sure 10, 15 minutes before he'd have gotten and I think that would have made - He would have died - He would have died. Yes. - It was Giordano, a Democrat, who answered the question Reagan asked - He looked to me, and he says, And I said to him, today we're all Republicans. - One hour after shooting, doctors wheeled Reagan down His wife, Nancy, holding the president's hand. - I said to myself, Boy, [laughter] - At the very moment President into the operating room, convened a crisis meeting in the basement - Right there. - Oh, look at that - National security adviser put a cassette recorder - I'm sitting here, in front of me. - As the tape rolled, whether the Soviet Union could - We never knew if it was just We did not know. - White House counsel - The cold war was still [crowd chanting, shouting] - In Poland, a shipyard uprising - There were a larger number as a matter of fact... of Soviet - On the tape, Secretary asked Allen-- I had a full copy which was the size of a menu, - A backup copy of those secret - Well, it's on the table there It might even be that - Secretary of State Haig - Constitutionally, He was only third in line after two leaders in Congress. - But for the most part, was carrying on like we just tolerated Haig. - Haig, now deceased, when spokesman Larry Speakes was asked this question. - Who's running - Speakes did not But Haig rushed up - Who's making the decisions Who's making the decisions? - Constitutionally, gentlemen, the vice president in that order. - Wrong again. Then Haig said the words which haunted him the rest of his life. - As of now, I am in control - Allen, standing beside Haig, says he looked anything - His voice was crackly, high-pitched, full of tension. His knees were shaking and his elbows were shaking. - Back in the Situation Room, Caspar Weinberger said was close enough, a missile within 11 minutes. He moved B-52 bomber pilots - Haig bristled. He just told the press remained unchanged. The irony, it was already two hours And had this been a foreign plot from that nearby sub, behind me would have been before the meeting even began. In the hospital, to locate the bullet inside They drew this diagram - And the bullet entrance under the left armpit. It went down, hit a rib, and then went back up. It's not unusual for bullets - Here is a second, closer look. - Eventually, where it ended up that's very close - Very close to the heart. This here is the heart wall, of the bullet after - How close to the heart? - It's probably - Another doctor It took an hour to reach from the president's chest. - He had some difficulty but he did. And then he took it out into a cup, a specimen cup. - By the time, Vice President the president was out In the recovery room, Reagan including this line comic W.C. Fields suggested for his I'd rather be in Philadelphia.&quot; Just 12 days later, of the hospital holding Beside them, who doctors say saved his life by rushing Reagan - I always say that who made a decision - Jerry Parr had signed up at a college job fair when he was only 8 years old. - Well, it was a movie And the main character - Played by? [bombastic music] - All right, chief. - I did tell him about it once And he told me, he said, Well, it was really the cheapest movie - In the movie, to break up - It was a terrible movie, It's still a terrible movie. - Brass Bancroft is shot his life spared when a book - Cheapest movie he ever made, it may have saved his life. - May have saved his life, - Coming up next, - We never realized this thing help to save [ominous music] - Ronald Reagan owed his life, to his presidential limousine, at the Henry Ford Museum Code named Stagecoach, weighing six tons. - This is the first time probably since the incident. It actually looks But it is the same car. - Secret Service agent took us back in history. Unlike most cars, rear passenger door opens - And it was a good thing it opened out toward - which was Hinckley. - Otherwise, last three shots might Agent Tim McCarthy spread such bullet as Parr shoved the president - We never realized this thing help to save - The rear window stopped Certainly, the door blocked It did. Sure. - The window shot was down - The bulletproof glass You can see where that shot hit The final bullet struck here, on the right rear side - There's armor under that, and it flattened out As we were going into the car, it flattened out and ricocheted as we were going in this way. - So just this little what, - Maybe a little three-inch gap, somewhere in there. - This is a blown-up photo taken from the president's body. - That's the bullet - It is. - A fluke shot through here, only a split second away - So we hear the shots. I grabbed his shoulder, As his arms go out, the side of the car into his armpit, right here. - This is the one right here? - Security changes would follow. Not until after the shooting did to buy magnetometers to check the White House day after day. - And what we learned in at the White House was that from all over the country - One year after the shootings, John Hinckley, Jr. His lawyers did not dispute - He had no defense, because it clearly - Instead At that time, federal law to prove otherwise. - It's impossible to prove in a court of law, certainly - The jury found Hinckley not - That courthouse was in shock - Hinckley was committed where, 32 years later, But the courts have started periodic visits to Williamsburg, staying where his mother lives, a gatehouse to keep out but still under - He is never free in the sense - Almost two years ago, for permission to live full time Prosecutors are resisting to the ongoing court fight. - I think John Hinckley for the rest of his life. I think he is a time bomb. - In the Ford Museum, is the convertible John F. Kennedy was shot a hardtop restored to the car Starting with Abraham Lincoln nine presidents have been targeted by gunfire, It has been 32 years since at an American president, between assassination attempts. With each death, each near miss, Yet, for the Secret Service, it remains a risk which comes - So help you God. - So help me God. - I congratulate you, sir. - I think for us, We have to be willing, We have to give our life It's like a tradeoff, - And you say that with that same code. - I think they all know it. - Each and every day has to be very, very good. [gunshots firing] And some days, [shouting, commotion] [uneasy music]