I'll start with you, David, pretty much report, which seem relatively Well, yes, absolutely. This is the 29th year we've been doing And so we have to look back over the learned? the US economy in particular. pretty resilient. the US economy, we're seeing better see. our forecast for the long run for the used to be 1.8%. That's positive. inflation. really was a cyclical event associated pandemic in Ukraine. And so we're able to mark down our CPI to 2 four. 2.4% inflation out as an average over And that is a very strong foundation for So what does that mean, Monika, for your I mean, are they going to share in that It seems like a lot of people are still I think that's absolutely right. higher points, whether it's equity volatility. is, is an opportunity when they're So the fundamentals, we call it fundamentals, whether it's macro, as corporate side, right, we're seeing When you think about earnings power, this is an opportunity, the tech that's not only going to help in terms improve margins. joy work that everybody has and improve Yeah, a lot of no joy work day in and What David was painting was kind of like exceptionalism thesis. continues? exceptional going forward that it has It's a really good point. equity dominance, when you think about concentrated on a few companies. The Max seven, we see a broadening out And we see that tech adoption both in terms of capital spending and in So that broadening out will be really maintain that market capitalization for What does that mean for a balanced Is the 6040 portfolio alive or dead? the challenges, I mean, this year we because markets have been so successful. sticker at the bottom of a of report is, indicative of future returns. indicates more difficult returns going But so we last year were at 7.0% for a Global equity U.S. to 6.4. But we do see plenty of opportunities in and also just within the way we manage know, you talk about challenges, we do got a big concentration issue. there was a no doubt from one of your idea that annualized returns for the S&amp;P digit moves instead of the double digit And a big part of that and I'm actually because a big part of that thesis was money's coming out of the market It's just not going to be going into And to David's point in the alternative Yeah, I think that, you know, when we long term. And so absolutely, at these higher is in our research, we're going to see traditional equities. aren't going to be investing on that out, whether it's macro or corporate. this is not just about stocks and bonds. opportunity for investors to allocate to I mean, this is a generational All we've been reading about real estate We're going to change the dialogue and non-core real estate, where the innovation, think data centers, cell And that's a significant opportunity. with governments and private capital important areas for hedge against That's going to be opportunities for But sort of bring that back to us. and even what she said there with positive, there's a lot of government negative. nature of this report, looking out ten to be factoring in the budget and government. I mean, and that's really why we so And this is why we think this is really Because even though our macro forecast moved a lot. They've become more expensive for U.S. And while we believe in the US equities, And one of those risks is the budget. political system seems to be generating unlike, for example, Europe, where where also more careful about their budgets bite us, you'd want to have some people would be sort of either directly shifting away from international goes up, if they didn't rebalance back hard to find. their wealth outside of large cap U.S. You mentioned something about inflation, inflation. certainly not a return to minimal The post financial crisis, pre-COVID gone. We don't think this is a very But what we do think is we've got more monetary policy. we've, you know, the any any hint of more stimulus. economy. lead to somewhat higher inflation. inflation, the amount of money the put a floor in the long term interest So, you know, I, I think inflation will but particularly long term interest they were pre-pandemic. this not knowing who's going to be in What were some of the what's the most in no matter who wins the White House? in the next 10 to 15 years, a lot of us And so when we're looking out and David point, but when we're looking out and we're talking to them about the cash on trillion, six and a half trillion And when you think about that talking to them as their long term There's real risks to keeping in cash to And we actually did this analysis where forecast it out the next ten years, that If you're just in cash, that $100 go to If you're in a 40, 60, 60, 40, and then that. biggest risk is not meeting portfolios Since you kicked the election. short straw here. this idea of protectionism. capital markets, but a big part of that market and has been for centuries. that we've seen from both parties to a Does that change your outlook? I mean, you know, tariffs any economist are a stupid idea because you raise It's a it's almost a stagflation elixir. inflation and slow the global economy at But that's why they don't persist for And that's why it's not something I want capital market assumptions. sudden rise in protectionism from where it could cause some damage to the Then if we back off and maybe there are bounces back and it's that bounce back is so important. the pandemic, we you know, what more And yes, if you'd gone to see just your long term portfolio, did nothing you're so substantially richer for not So we tend to fade. portfolio around elections, take a what's what you think about those these on that rather than trying to a guess election is going to affect your really difficult to.