Hello everyone, in this video we're going to talk used in networking and these connectors will vary that they are attached to. Whether that cable is And the first one we're going to talk about is network connector. Now this is an eight pin other network devices in a local area network. The Twisted pair cable has eight wires and these wires are inserted into an RJ-45 connector and then they then one connector would be plugged into the would plug into a device, such as a switch, modem, will be able to connect to a network. The RJ-45 has Now this is a UTP coupler. Now this is not UTP cables with RJ-45 connectors to each other. is not an option. It's just used to extend a their RJ-45 connectors. So you would just plug one would plug in another cable on the other side. And And another type of connector that is similar similar to the RJ45, but the difference between twisted pair cable instead of unshielded The RJ-48 is primarily used with T1 lines and And this is the RJ-11 connector. This is a four telephone equipment. But as far as networking, the network through the computer's modem. The RJ-11 and it resembles the RJ-45 but it's a little RJ connector that is used with coaxial cable. And the BNC is used with both analog and digital connectors are not very common anymore but they are many different kinds of BNC connectors. connects three coaxial cables together. And there two coaxial cables together. And there is also ends of a cable. Now this connector is called the used on coaxial cables. These are primarily used So if you have broadband cable like I do, you to an F-type connector that screws into the back addition to being used with broadband cable, And there is also the USB connector. The USB is 'universal' is in its name, it can be used for many example many manufacturers make USB wireless to give the computer wireless network access. this one here, where you would plug an ethernet USB port on a computer and then the computer will So now we're getting into fiber optic connectors. send data. And there are many different types of about the most popular fiber connectors. But the are the size and the method they use when is called the SC or standard connector. And this one of the first connectors to be used in the similar to audio and video plugs and these are connector is called the MRTJ which stands for a fiber optic connector that uses a latched push used for high pack density and it was designed to in a single design and it resembles the RJ-45. in fiber networks today. And our next fiber or Lucent connector, since it was developed commonly used between floors in a building and It's about half the size of the SC connector racks and panels and this also uses a latch that And our last fiber optic connector is called the bayonet type of lock and is commonly used with large size connector that was developed by AT&amp;T. declined in favor of smaller connectors, such as there are also fiber couplers. So if you you would use a fiber coupler. Now fiber couplers optic connectors and the two connectors have to with fiber adapters, because fiber adapters together. So here we have an example of a fiber So now we're going to talk about the difference optic connectors. And as examples we're going to UPC and APC end faces. Now when fiber optic the point at which the connection is made is of the flat surfaces. So what happens is at is transmitted from one connector to the other the other connector, the light will reflect back and when this happens, there is signal loss. And is reflected directly back. So as technology decrease the signal loss. And this new connector between the UPC and the APC is the angle of the as I said before, with the UPC, the light reflects with its angled connection, the light doesn't it reflects back at an angle into the wall of the signal loss. So thank you everyone for please subscribe, follow me on