It's the age-old question, what the [Chomp Chomp] biting into it ain't the cards. Well during the American Civil War they'd make hellfire stew. A big thank you to Wondrium for sponsoring with hellfire stew from the American Civil War this time on Tasting History. So one of the main ingredients in hellfire stew is [Clack Clack] and as it happens last year I made some hard tack and I still have quite a bit left over so that's what I'm going to be using. Now this is actually called a ship's biscuit, they are one in the same. Hardtack was a term that was used later during the American Civil War. There are differences between this version and what would have been used in the Civil War. This one is based off of what would have been made in the British Navy in the 19th century and there are a few differences. First of all the shape. This was meant to be kept in barrels, whereas Civil War hardtack was meant to be kept in boxes so it was square to make it easier to ship. Then there's because these tended to be four to a pound. These Then the last difference is all whole wheat, Essentially they're the same dough, especially for our purposes so I'm going to use a little bit of both. But I'm guessing that the year old hardtack gets better with age or if not gets on account of the worms. &quot;I have often seen hundreds and thousands shaken out of a single biscuit. We in the cabin have, however, an easy remedy by baking it in an oven not too hot, which makes them all walk off; but this cannot the taste of these animals very disagreeable Sadly no worms found their way into my hardtack so I will just have to pretend. Now today's recipe comes from the diary of William Bircher who was a drummer boy in the Second Regiment Minnesota Veterans Volunteers. &quot;When, as was generally the case on a march, our hard-tack was broken into small pieces in our haversacks, we soaked these in water and fried them in pork fat, stirring well and seasoning with salt and pepper, thus making Pretty darn simple as is most of the food that but for this recipe what you'll need is: some pork Now they would have had several options for pork fat. First and most common was salt pork but sometimes they did get cured bacon, so that's what I'm going to be using. One because it's going to taste better and two because then you don't have to get rid of all the salt. A bit of salt and a bit of pepper and of course hardtack, which is just flour, water, sometimes a little and like I said I did this a year ago and I made the hardtack I will put a link to that in the video was sponsored by the Great Courses Plus and which used to be The Great Courses Plus! So big surprise here. I love learning and whether I'm cooking in the kitchen or playing with my LEGO that learning comes in the form of lectures on Wondrium. They have an extensive library of educational on every topic from science, self-improvement, art, travel, and of course history. There's this great lecture series called 'The American Civil War' and in one of the lectures on prisoner of war camps I learned that Union and Confederate of their own side and I was like what? Well it all came down to prisoner exchanges. Basically if we had 100 prisoners and you had 100 then you'd swap and no harm no foul, but if one side had more than another then those extra prisoners would Sometimes they'd go home but sometimes they would be held in their own side's prison until they had other prisoners that they could exchange. Ain't that a kick in the pants? And for more kicks in the pants or at least interesting tidbits like this you can start your free trial of Wondrium today by clicking the link in the description Now let's get pounding up this hardtack. So you're not looking to bust this up into flour per se but you want it fairly fine maybe a few larger pieces but you want it pretty fine so it will thicken. Best thing to do is to stick it in a bag and hit Okay so they both took some pounding heck of a lot harder and I don't know if it's that took a lot of work. It's kind not for long because you're going to put it into and in just a couple minutes it'll soak it up and be soft-er. Now the soldiers ate this hard tack so much that they quickly got sick and tired of it and one was to write parody lyrics to other popular songs about how much they hated hardtack. One was the Stephen Foster song 'Hardtimes' &quot;Let us close our game of poker, take our tin cups in our hand, while we gather around the cook's tent door where dry mummies of hardtack are given to each man; oh hardtack come again no more tis the song of the soldier weary hungry and faint. Hardtack, hardtack, come again no more.&quot; And the author of our recipe the drummer boy lamented &quot;Our hard-tack were very hard. We could scarcely break them with our teeth. Some we could scarcely fracture with our fist.&quot; But he said that it did furnish quite a bit by doing things like making hellfire &quot;Thus we saw what truly vast andunsuspected possibilities resided in this innocent-looking, three and a half inch square hard-tack. Three made a meal and nine were a ration, and this was what fought the battles for the Union.&quot; Pretty good endorsement as long as it is edible and to do that it's going to take some pig grease. So heat up your grease and then add the soaked hardtack into and stir it around until it browns. It only should take a couple minutes which is plenty of time to hit the Like button, make sure you're subscribed to Tasting History and listen to me talk to you about what Now any talk of what a Civil War soldier might Were you an officer? Were you Union or Confederate? Where in the country were you fighting? What time of year was it, and how far into the And of course were you wounded or captured? Last year I did a video on what you might eat in a Union hospital and frankly it was not too bad food compared to what everybody else was getting. On the other end of the spectrum if you were in Andersonville you'd be lucky to be getting anything. So with that in mind I'm going to be focusing if they got what was due to them. In his memoir aptly named 'Hardtack and Coffee' John Billings of the Army of the Potomac claimed that they rarely went without any kind of rations, they were pretty well fed. As to the quality of So much so that when they got salt beef they He goes so far as to claim that the food inspectors of the army were actually in cahoots and taking bribes from the contractors and &quot;No language can be too strong to express must feel for such small souled creatures But provided everything was on the up and up the soldier in camp should expect to get some variation of &quot;Salt pork, fresh beef, salt beef, rarely ham or bacon, hard bread, soft bread, potatoes, an occasional onion, dried peaches, desiccated vegetables, coffee, Mind you they didn't get all of that every day. It was always some variation, kind of came piecemeal, and that was only if they were encamped. If they were marching they got &quot;One pound of hard bread, three-fourths of a pound of salt pork, or one and one-fourth pounds of fresh meat; sugar, coffee, and salt.&quot; So it was important that when you were in camp you saved a little bit of that ration back for those days that you were out marching, and there are a few reasons why those two rations were so different. First was that the supply train was often well behind the majority of the marching army. Another was that while they often brought herds of cows with them they needed to set up camp in order to slaughter Now to break down some of these rations and discuss what the men made of them we should start with the staple hardtack. [Clack Clack] According to John Billings there were actually The first was the kind that was so hard that you really couldn't eat it. This The drummer boy who wrote our recipe claims that the hardness came from its age. &quot;For there was a common belief among the boys that our heart attack had been baked long before the beginning of the christian era. This opinion was based on the fact that the letters 'BC' were stamped on the cracker-boxes.&quot; BC likely stood for brigade commissary or else the company that provided them. The other two types of hardtack were soggy and moldy usually because of bad storage and ones infested with worms, maggots, and weevils. And if a man got either of these types they and swap them out for some good hardtack, and provided that they knew that it was bad And &quot;It was no uncommon occurrence for a man to find the surface of his pot of coffee swimming with weevils, after breaking up hardtack into it which had come out of the fragments only to drown.&quot; Though he says that once skimmed off they left But even if you had the best kind of hardtack you had to do something to it to make it edible, and the drummer boy says that there were 15 distinct ways of doing this. One of course was our stew today the hellfire stew. Another was called skillygalee and they're actually very very similar. Though it was described as a dish &quot;to make the hair curl and certainly was indigestible enough to satisfy the cravings of the most ambitious dyspeptic.&quot; Another dish was lobscouse which was basically like a stew depending on what you had laying around that was then thickened And it actually doesn't sound that bad according to John Townsend who made it on his wonderful show Townsends and seemed to like it. But as palatable as lobscouse sounds there's sounds a little bit less so and that was if you were out marching and didn't have time to make a fire but were really really hungry and willing to risk your teeth then &quot;they would eat hard tack in the raw state. In order, however to make them somewhat more palatable, a thin slice of nice fat pork was cut down and laid on the cracker, and a spoonful of good brown sugar put on top of the pork, and we had a dish fit for a soldier. Of course the pork was raw and had just come out of the pickle.&quot; Sugar, yay. Raw salted pork... nay. Now if they didn't want to eat it like that or if they didn't want to soften it by mixing it up with some grease or some coffee. Then they &quot;pounded them to a powder, mixed this with boiled rice, and made griddle-cakes and honey, minus the honey.&quot; But perhaps the most impressive dish that they would make with hardtack was called hardtack pudding and they would pound it until it did become a flour and then they would mix that with a little bit of wheat flour and water &quot;and made a stiff dough, which we next rolled out on a cracker box lid, like a pie crust; then we covered this all over with a preparation of stewed dried apples, dropping in here and there a raisin or two just for Auld Lang Syne's sake.&quot; Then they'd wrap this in a cloth and boil it like any other pudding and it would be served with wine sauce. &quot;Though the wine was usually omitted and hunger inserted in its stead.&quot; Now as versatile as hardtack was they One was a small round white bean that they simply called the army bean. And while the drummer boy admits that it's not as versatile as the hardtack. &quot;The one great dish which might be made of it was so preeminently excellent that it threw 'hell fired stew' and 'hard-tack pudding' quick into the shade.&quot; That dish was baked beans and i have to admit baked beans is one of my favorite foods though today it usually does have sugar in it and the way that they made it was simply with beans, water, pork fat that was left to slowly simmer in a pot overnight on hot coals. Now if you were set up in camp for a little while and the supply lines were running as they ought to be then the food did get quite a bit better. First of all you had access to that fresh meat and to a lot of fresh bread. When encamped they would build ovens and a lot of them. When the army was encamped outside of Petersburg, Virginia General Grant ordered the civilian bakers at city point to tend those ovens. And they would bake 123,000 loaves of bread every single day. Now all of these rations whether it's the hardtack, the pork, the beans, or the coffee everything came in really large in big sacks and big boxes. These would then be was in charge of doling them out evenly to the men. And it seemed the most popular way to do this was to lay out a big blanket and then put all of the rations in little piles for each man. And &quot;to prevent any charge of unfairness or injustice, the Sergeant would turn his back on the rations, and take out his roll of the company. Then someone else would point to a pile and ask 'who shall have this?' and the sergeant, without turning, would call a name from his list. William Bircher our drummer boy gives kind of a sad account of how this At the beginning it took quite a long time because they had a hundred men in the company and they had a lot of rations coming in. &quot;But after we had been in the field a year or two the call, 'fall in for your hard-tack!' was leisurely responded to by only about a dozen men, lean, sinewy, hungry-looking fellows, each with his haversack in hand.&quot; So there is so much more information on this topic that I could cover. I'm not going to because this video I think is already getting quite long, but I am going to cover specifically coffee, so be on the lookout for that, but for now it's time to try our hellfire stew. So once it's well browned just take it off and here we are hellfire stew from the American Civil War. Not gonna lie, looks like dog food... premium dog food but dog food. Smells pretty good though. It smells like bacon grease. Let's give it a chance. That's really weird. So texture is really weird It's gonna get stuck in every crevice of your It actually- the flavor is not that bad. It kind of reminds me of chorizo but really much drier and crumblier. If you add even more fat it might it might I think it's going to be crumbly no matter what The thing is the hard tack soaks up everything. So water grease just add more, but overall it's not that bad, and if i was really, really hungry and hadn't eaten that much and had just gone on a 20-mile I'd gladly eat this. So make sure to follow me on Instagram @tastinghistorywithmaxmiller and I will see you next time on Tasting History. [Chomp Chomp] [Munch Munch] [Labored crunching]