Wages arrive at 1000 yuan Mr. Wang walks slowly, ah Manager, Manager Manager My salary is not right Why only 1000 You don't mess up, ah, ah Hey, hey, hey, dad, hey 17 ah, your father I'm a son in law You hurry to pack up ready to get on the kang You a security guard to stand guard Stop dreaming. How about a good salary Hang up first Bye-bye, hello This kid doesn't believe If you don't break up, you'll be happy to have a good man. We are married, your daughter is my daughter Go change clothes to see my daughter Manager When I joined the company, I agreed on how to do the 3000 basic salary. There's 1000 left in a month Good. I will give you a clear calculation today I also let you die to understand The total amount of basic salary 3000 plus commission is 5892. Let's gather together a whole ah is 5800 Wait a minute, what about 92? It's not small change, no trouble Ah, and ah You see, I 've been late and left early five times this month. It's not that I'm late, it's because the punch-in machine is broken. I left early because I went to give the client something he left in the guest room. I said it all in the group Look, wait, wait, wait, wait I tell you, ah I only read the records in this book. Every time you are late, you can deduct 300 and leave early. If you are absent from work, you can deduct 1000, leaving a 3300. Ah, right Several customers canceled their rooms this month. You cleaned the rooms. I'm only responsible for the upfront cleaning It is not my responsibility that the customer did not check in, is it Without losing a customer, the hotel earns less money. No, can you think of being so selfish for our company? If you buckle 2000 again, there's one 1300 left. Gather together a whole salary 1000, which have you so pay ah How can I live with my 1000 dollars? My rent is 1500 Then I have to eat I usually have a stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop How you live is none of my business. I tell you, ah Love wants medicine to roll to me It's not that you don't want to do this job. You said so earlier. Some people are willing to do. You're still unreasonable. Here I am Lee I'm about to prepare for the chairman's wedding. When I'm done, I'll be promoted to director. If you dare to say something again, I will let you go immediately. I Old Qin, I see what else you can do to me Anyway, I rotten life a You are Jiang 17 Come on with us Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, who wants my life Grandpa, I can't become a talent. Ah. Don't Don't Don't Don't I don't smoke I don't see your faces Don't kill the ticket Don't Don't Don't Don't 17 is my father. Why are you holding our chairman's hand? Also called the chairman call mom oh Ah. You really came up at a high price. 17 ah. This is a bride price from your aunt, eh Have you worked hard to pull your father over the years? All these gifts are yours Wow. I didn't expect to be a rich second generation at my age. I have no female knee After you are my daughter This is a gift for you It is my favorite sparrow gazelle and emerald cream. It can resist early aging Quick light lines Quick repair, quick change bright Meet the needs of mild anti-aging Thanks, mom. Ha ha ha ha ha, and Wedding Day Our wedding ring please by your hand I heard that after today The chairman handed over the company to his daughter to take care of it. So ah Family members must serve me well at the main table, ah Teacher machine No. Where did he steal at this critical moment? Who is this? It's so beautiful Good to eat and drink Jiang 17, are you crazy to sit at the chairman's table without working? I'm taking a break from the wedding today. Take a rest, you should work overtime. Where's the banner In that case, I quit You pay me back the arrears of wages You really ate the bear heart leopard bravery ah Still dare to pay Do you know what today? You're crazy. Don't drag me down. Get out of here. Are you sure? I can't do this wedding without me The tone is really big Take a look at this, do you know Mm-hmm. Isn't this, this, this, the chairman's emerald diamond ring worth more than 1000 million yuan? Ah. How dare you steal Now you can't leave if you want Security, security, you get it back to me Well, that Next, please invite the chairman's daughter to present Edward to the newcomer. Please have the ring here. I just don't know where the daughter is. Daughter, come on. Bring it, you Happy wedding parents. My parents Jiang 17 is my daughter Also the future owner of this hotel is good Manager Li You're fired It's so hot that you still have to charge rent for 30 buildings. Hard work, my first time as a rental woman How do you have to experience it They're all gone, sir. This is this month's store rent, the total is 4500 You point It's not easy at your age, sir. Monthly rent 4500, I'll give you a zero This is the first time 450 have seen such a magic spirit like you. If you feel bad Just send me a popsicle Okay, take whatever you want Ginger 17 even a popsicle has to ask people what they want to eat. I was right to break up with you. I'm not like you a poor life My girlfriend is Bai Fumei Look at me now. Let's go. He's already miserable for a poor man who loses at the starting line like this. Let's not sprinkle salt on people's wounds. What are you doing? You two are buzzing like two mosquitoes. I whoosh What are you tough Your dad was a security guard On your family conditions I'm afraid no man dares you Shy ah I not only have a boyfriend, but also have a lot of money. Tomorrow my company officially listed I beg you to bring your rich boyfriend Let's see how rich she is Go. Good, good. Where are you going to find a boyfriend? have good food Ahhh, what are you doing You hey hey Fool ah ha Fools have the benefit of fools Come on, give him a set to wash, cut, blow and clean up. Money is not a problem Handsome, okay, go with him Miss Sit Party Oh, it's like a dog, ha, ha, ha Pretty handsome You can do this I think you still need an identity. President, good. I remember, what's the matter Are you all right? Didn't you say you needed an identity What do you think of him Tact Zhou Tong, the god of shares, has never appeared in front of outsiders. Pretending to be him, I'm sure he won't wear it. Baby, your ex-girlfriend probably dare not come She also said bravado Which man looks up to him Here we come Wow, so handsome 17 is so beautiful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Jiang 17, you really dare to come Also don't introduce this It's my boyfriend Zhou Tong, Zhou Tong It won't be Zhou Zong, president of Shihan Group Stock God Zhou Zong Hey. Don't be fooled by him. Jiang 17 is a poor man picking up garbage. How is it possible to find such a powerful boyfriend? The ancient gods never appeared. He couldn't have picked up a fake from some dump, could he? Oh, that won't hit the gun I recently speculated in Jiangcheng, but the first If your boyfriend is a stock god Dare to compare with me Well, hehe My boyfriend disdains to compare with you or dare not Dare not, it doesn't matter Kneel down and apologize Otherwise, I will call the police now and I will compare with you. But the loser has to count his whole fortune. All net worth Do you have Poor bastards, let you open your eyes today. 3 million buy the above three shares As soon as I bought it, I went up 10% and made a 10 million profit. It's really I only bought this one for 1 million Where did you get so much money? Who doesn't know this is just the most famous losing stock? It's going to fall through the center of the earth. The stock god must be a fake. No. Jiang 17 you are finished, already poor Now I have to pay my debts with another poor wretch. Don't worry, the time will come soon. Wait a minute. Has it gone up? Up, up, everyone, look Zhou Tong's purchases started to rise The other three fell. You see, it's really starting to go up My God, how did he know It's really the three I bought. How did they fall? Did you see that one of yours 50 million profit, ha ha It's just a matter of luck The ancient gods were interviewed just a few days before they returned home. I 've got a hand of jewelry Please look at everyone Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go Wu Shen is a 17-year-old boyfriend. He is the president of Shihan Group, Zhou Zong, Lili. I don't let go break up Zhou Zong I rented the entire floor of CBD1 as a company. I am the woman who deserves you Unlike this woman, she's a rag-harvester. Is it? The landlord feeds your company a 500 percent increase in rent. There's more. I have more than one building. 17, mother's group is worth tens of billions Come and inherit. 17, your husband's group ranked first You are the CEO. I don't want I just want to go shopping and watch a movie. Be a rich idle man lying flat. I want to watch a movie. Mom will build you a cinema right away, not mine. I'll build a business district for my wife. 17. These are the top three construction companies in the city Which one do you think is suitable Oh, my boss Jia is quite loving We have a lot of disabled employees. He also won the Young Enterprise Award. Give him both projects Jia Zong I heard that you got two big projects, the business district and the cinema. Let's settle our wages. Hey. This is the caring entrepreneur Jia Zong Salary increase, yes Wait class no Hey, get up. Don't kneel for him You work for him, he pays you It is only natural You don't know that my old mother is waiting for money to help her in the hospital. The family can't open the pot, and the children have to go to school. Really obedient ah This salary, may be force When will this be sent Don't look at my mood Hey. Everyone else is already so difficult, and you're adding fuel to the fire. Who am I, this woman? You dare to kick me The three are miserable because they don't work hard enough. What does it have to do with me? They 've got blood blisters on their hands. The joints are deformed. What makes you say they don't work hard? Without them to work hard, could have you today Hey. Do you, a poor wretch, deserve to educate me? I just won the Young Entrepreneur Award. I'm going to receive the award today. Offend me ah Let you not get paid in your life. What can I do about this? Children have to go to school Don't worry, I'll give you an explanation Seven, don't worry. Girl, mom, this is the sand This is too cheap for him Isn't he going to the awards ceremony tomorrow to receive his award? I'm going to leave him with memories he'll never forget. Ha ha ha ha ha ha The winner of this year's outstanding young entrepreneur is Jia Zhengjin. Busy. Pay our wages. What is this situation Why did you come here? Hey, let's get justice What does he mean by this? Does this guy owe so much Don't you just emphasize the line Ah. Sister fuck off Don't delay my collar, tell the truth Cash only ah Why Jia always has something You are strong heavy This company is a caring enterprise on the surface and recruits disabled migrant workers. In fact, it is to deduct the wages of the disabled and cheat the state's subsidies. Up to now, all the wages in arrears have not been paid, and all the human and material evidence are there. Why is he so bad? How can he be rated as an excellent starter? Grass, where are you going? Send me a salary Therefore, Mr. Jia, may I ask People like you who bully the bottom How brazen to receive this award He still has the face to accept the award, the scum of the society Jia Zhengjin On behalf of the organizers, I announce You 've been permanently removed from the City's Entrepreneurs' Association. We'll never give our feet to a black-hearted capitalist like you. Well done. Stop filming. What is it, tell you Even if you mess up today's awards ceremony I won't pay you either. I don't care about the awards ceremony. I already have two big projects in hand, the business district and the cinema. The investment has 0.1 billion. Chairman of Zhenyuan Group Arrived I'm working with your movie theater campaign. It's solo. Then I still have business district projects The cooperation between our group and your business circle has also been canceled. You're blocked Why ah I didn't offend you, did I You offended my daughter You offended me old So you are the daughter of the richest man, and you have the wife of the boss. You must remember, never apologize If it is useful, what else should I do with Jiang 17 Also please give me a way out Then you go to the construction site In the future, these migrant workers will be your mother. It's you, well done. Don't worry A lot of wages. But as for when to send it Of course, it depends on the mood. Ha ha Boss, give me some Two more sausages Boss, please sweep Oh, come on. hey, give it to shangwawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawawa You're too unpassionate Play like this every day. Who will inherit my big family business? Mom. I just want to be a regular employee. Then I'll have to send your dad to work as a shareholder. Eh, Dad. 50 years old, is the age of rush Go home and tidy up. Go to work with me tomorrow Hello, everyone. I'm the new ginger 17 Who cares about your little character? Flash aside Don't affect me to meet the major shareholders, the major shareholders Hello comrades My name is Jiang Longbin. I will manage the company's affairs during this period of time. so handsome Are your eyes okay? Understand what this is called emotional tension The most rich men.It's charming Jiang Zong Try the Italian espresso I made for you Is this very refreshing Of course. After drinking this, I couldn't sleep all night. Oh baby, drink it By the way, help me do the report. I am too old to stay up late You said so Let me help you with the report. And Mr. Jiang, you are old and strong. Jiang 17 helped me make this report If I had done all your work... Then you do ha ah Of course I'm dating Jiang Elder sister This is an office, not a blind date. You converge Er, isn't this Jiang's head portrait Mm-hmm. Jiang 17 you also said I worship money You all recognize the gold Lord called michel platini No wonder you always pour cold water on me So you want to monopolize Jiang Zong, you are crazy If you take a closer look, don't you think I look like Jiang? Ah. You mean you don't have a husband and wife, do you Oh. Shameless, um Winning or losing is still undecided. We each by our own means Sure enough, the brain circuit of a toad is different from that of a human being. Lazy to talk to you, off duty Ha ha Go, dear. Let's go to the hot spring Isn't this Baotou, president of Shian Group? Jiang 17 stepped on two boats See if I don't report you to work every day to deal with Lai malicious Too tired, someone is coming Wife, where are the products? Like the snow-blind, mother I think we all have good eyes. Ah. Let me introduce you to the major customers of this cooperation. Mr. Zhou Tong, President of Shihan Group Welcome to suspend, Mr. Jiang Zhou Zong You have all been cheated by Jiang 17. Jiang 17 he received Jiang's money. While running to soak in the hot spring with Mr. Zhou This is outrageous. Kang 17, you're dead Why don't you two call me in the hot spring? Ha ha Next time definitely. Yo, mama The real version of the burning winter let me catch up with you instead of gossiping here. Why don't you work hard and disrupt the meeting? You should watch it at home. Come and see, everyone. Jiang 17 pedals two boats The nutty company, the crime is not allowed to be punished. I advise you not to spread rumors and cause trouble here. Jiang 17, how are you? Let two men so rich live in peace Why did you do it? Are you still afraid of being told? It's you again. I advise you not to go too far Save things can't end Hmph. Jiang 17, even if major shareholders and major customers protect you But chairman, I'm still going to turn you in. Because justice is not late Who is making trouble? The chairman is me. But the root of the evil is Jiang 17 Then you're fired Ah. Chairman, are you mistaken? The man who made a mess of the company. It's Jiang 17, dare to spread rumors about my daughter I think you have a lot of courage, yes Let me introduce you This is my mother This is my father This is my husband The four of us are happy sisters. I was wrong Happy Birthday, Kiki Thanks, mom. But I 've grown up I don't play with toys anymore. You pick it up and see Mm-hmm. Car keys, I bought you a 30 million luxury car I also want to take you to pick up the car today But it's raining outside 30 million, let the storm come harder. Ha ha, I will go now Hello miss, do you need to see the car Ah, no, there's another poor man hiding from the rain. It's OK It just rained outside Miss, I'll show you around See if there are any favorite cars. I'll buy it next time Thank you The cars in this dealerage have to be at least 300000. Just him hum What do you expect Look at this lifetime can't afford to buy How much is the most expensive? What's there to say about 30 million and people who can't afford it? Waiter My guest is here. I have prepared a good tea for you. Jiang 17, isn't this the poorest one in our class before? I will say ah As soon as I came into this store, I had a poor and sour taste. Son, your father used to work as a security guard for my house. Why do you have to send your resume to the 4S store Sure enough, the poor are hereditary. Who told you to be ungrateful? When Shen Shao chased you, you didn't accept it. Now I live in a villa with Shen Shao and drive a luxury car on a cloudy day. You Can only look up to our life forever Ouch, regret it Alas, alas, alas, pain, pain, alas, alas, alas, alas No matter how much money you have I don't even think much of you. I'm not quick to get rid of him. Do you want me to spend money here Don't you get out of here Don't delay my reception As long as they come in, they are all our customers. You have no right to drive him away Hey. Can't you understand the situation, you little waiter? I'll let you know today Know that rich people are your customers Waiter, I have completed the procedures for picking up this car. Shen Shao, this car 1.2 million Does 1.2 million count money? Today, I just need to open this eyeless person to me. I immediately sign the bill And I lost this job Serves you right Don't pack your things quickly Get out with your poor customers. Wait a minute. I bought this car for double the price Hum Jiang 17, don't keep your mouth shut, 2.4 million If you had, I would kneel down for you now. Credit card is good, because credit card payment is successful here. The performance belongs to you, Miss KI. Please wait a moment. This is an electric car purchase. Only VIP guests with millions of goods can have a hundred sparrow antelope emerald true cloud yarn for you. Your shop is very tasteful I chose this product that can really solve the cliff leopard print of oriental women. How can you really pay successfully? Now it's your turn to kneel Oh. I know. Hey. How much did Jiang 17 give you Let you play the scene for us here We'll give you double the price As long as you prove the spar Other luxury cars can't afford to drive that 2.4 million at all. I can't afford to drive them. I don't want to drive Because my car is here Ha ha Your brain is broken Jiang 17 This is the town store of this store. 30 million value, right? Don't blow Jiang 17 30 million it's not enough to sell your family Ouch. I tell you, you are really not qualified to buy this car This is the global limit People who buy it need at least five million-class luxury cars of this brand. to be able to qualify for purchase Oh, my God. And you have to have more than a billion dollars to buy and maintain. You have a monthly salary of several thousand What are you playing You play. But I'm not here to buy him, eh Look, I'm Raytheon Card. You can really pretend If you want to move the car, there's no one to act for you. This car is voiceprint unlocked, and he doesn't have a key. It's going to be revealed, lightning unlock What situation You are really the master of this super run I don't believe this is a 30 million worth of sports car. Lightning, tell me, what is the name of a dog like this In the language of civilization, it's called intellectual disability. In uncivilized language called Dasha Ah, walk back to my hometown Ten Rongwei Later Ceremony Jin Jin Return Home What are you doing Dad. Let's go back to the village to celebrate Grandpa's 80th birthday this time. Be sure to raise your eyebrows in front of your relatives, oh I said 17. You are now the female president of the Truth Group. I am a major shareholder We must learn to have money and not to expose it. Besides, it's all about a party of relatives. Let's do more than less, right? Well, it makes sense However, the hometown still needs to give back. I have asked the group to invest in 5 million to build roads in the village. Then let's go back to the village in a low profile. Hey. Seeing the old man, you said the second child who started the company in the city came back. It's really promising Hey dad, we're back Why didn't you see the eldest brother and his daughter Xiao Qi? Ouch, still need to say Must be ashamed to come back Hi. Xiaoyuanzi, your family is waiting in the city for the old man to come back. Grandpa, we're back Dad. Cut not that one big and one small poor sample Shame on our Jiang family Ouch brother, you two will come back in such a broken tricycle when you go home to visit relatives. Ride three rounds back You said that your brothers were both born by the same parent, and the gap is too wide. Tell me about your sister who has hands and feet here. How did this make life like this? I said, are relatives Is it necessary for you to speak so harshly? Oh, sugar girl. But Mom and Dad just told the truth. You must not take it seriously Although the truth is harsh But it allows the human brain to be awake and hold it. What do you mean? The table will open soon. You and your father, pack more and go back. Don't wait to get home. If you want to chew steamed bread, you can eat pickles. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Yes I think you're right I'll blow you up first Ah ah, what are you doing this child 17 17 ah. Today is your grandfather's birthday Let's go more and more happily. Happy Birthday Grandpa Hey, have you heard that there is no Truth Group? We donated 5 million to our village to build roads. You know why? Dad. I'm building roads in the village. Did you tell them You said no ah What are you two whispering about? It's really a small door that can't get on the table. I'll tell you the truth The road, son. Hmph. It's all because of my son-in-law. My husband, but the executive director of Zhenyan Group Today, you have touched the light of our family. Er... What are you doing? Monitor, what are you doing? Excuse me, oh I didn't resist, it was too much. I really ah I'm really sorry 17 ah. Give everyone the gifts we took. To apologize, oh oh oh Thank you all for coming to my grandfather's birthday party. Then don't worry about it, alas 17, you when the waiter Your dad was a security guard How much do you two make a month together? This expansion is too outrageous A little bit, daughter. Let them see the strength of our family, good Yunrui This is my husband The jade-faced Buddha Fugui specially brought back from abroad. It's only a mere 100000 dollars. 100000 block Hello, Zhang 17, where are your gifts for the old man? What, is it too cheap to take it? Grandpa, don't you like calligraphy Dad. Hey, okay This is my gift for you OK, OK, I like it. This is a picture of Songhe Yannian. Yes Hum, you can blow it This Songhe Yannian map can have more than 100 million Just the shoes your father and daughter bought Take a Yanzu here to fool the old man You guys are disrespectful Such a good thing You just tore it up Hey, yo, hey Where did you pick this up? Junk also played Sorry, everyone is late. acting too busy Honey, you're here Songhe Yannian Chart, how did you lose it? This is fake Don't be fooled. This Songhe Yannian diagram It was taken by the new president of our Zheng Ye Group at an auction two days ago. I personally drove it to the CEO's door. Right. This is the real thing It's the real thing Jiang 17, where did you steal it I don't have to steal I took this from my own house. You mean you're the president. The lie is getting bigger and bigger. You're dead, ha ha I see the dead man convinced you to ask Thanks to Zhenyan Group for Building Villages I donated 5 million to help our village build roads. What about 5 million? Low-key, low-key Go, go, go and get the pennants. Come on, I'm ready Who are you? The village chief is my son-in-law. She's the director of the Truth Group. Isn't the pennant for him? A mere supervisor Today is the president of Zhenyan Group, together with the major shareholders. The president goes while he goes. Who is it? 17 and his father, 17 You're fired I was fired Hey. Don't forget Shin He, you If you want to do that to me, you have to lose money. 1 million, 1 million Ah ah Are you scanning WeChat or Alipay Hey.