Hello everyone!. Take 180 grams of coconut flakes. Add 200 ml milk. Continue heating over low heat until the mixture thickens. Add 60 grams of butter. Write in the comments which city you come from? I am very interested. Cover the mixture with foil and let it cool. Grind 150 grams of milk chocolate. Watch the video until the end so you don't miss anything. Melt the chocolate in the microwave. Add 30 ml vegetable oil. Distribute the chocolate evenly in the silicone mold. Place in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Finely chop 100 grams of strawberries. Grind the strawberries in a blender. Place strawberries in a pot. Add 40 grams of sugar. Keep the mixture on low heat. Add 40 grams of cornstarch. Reserve until thickened. Strawberry puree is very tender and aromatic. Allow to cool and pour the mixture into a piping bag. If there are any gaps anywhere, add a second layer of chocolate. Which chocolate do you like best? Milky or bitter? Share it in the comments!. Place in the fridge for 20-30 minutes. Let's collect our delicious cakes!. Put strawberry puree in the middle. Pour the remaining chocolate over it. Let me know in the comments if you liked the recipe. I will be very satisfied. Place in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Place 30-40 grams of melted white chocolate in a piping bag. Hurray! Almost finished! My family just loves them. If there is chocolate sticking out anywhere on the side, cut it off. I look forward to your comment. Squeeze the juice from half a lemon. Add lemon juice to 8 ounces of warm milk. Be sure to add it to the warm milk. Mix well and let stand. Take 300 grams of flour. Add 50 grams of cocoa. Add 10 grams of baking powder. Add 3 grams of vanilla sugar. Divide 2 eggs into whites and yolks. Add 180 grams of sugar. Add 120 grams of butter at room temperature. Beat the mixture with a mixer. Add 2 egg yolks to the mixture. Gradually add the dry ingredients. Add standing milk with lemon. Beat the mixture with a mixer to remove lumps. I used a 20*20 cm mold. Bake at 180deg for 20-25 minutes. Take 7 grams of gelatin. Add 80 ml water. Mix well and let stand. Check the readiness of the cake with a toothpick. Trim the edges carefully. Divide the cake into 9 parts. Cut off the top of the cake. Repeat with each piece. Melt the standing gelatine in the microwave. Add 135 grams of sugar. Beat the mixture with a mixer. The mixture should be white and dense. The cream hardens quickly, so do not store it in a piping bag or plate for a long time. Write in the comments which desserts you like best, with or without baking?. Soak the cakes with warm milk. I would really appreciate your comment. Grind 200 grams of milk chocolate. What is your favorite chocolate? Melt the chocolate in the microwave. Add 20 ml vegetable oil. Dip each brownie in chocolate. These cakes taste very delicious! You won't regret making them. Place in the fridge for 20-30 minutes. Pour the remaining chocolate into a piping bag. Let me know in the comments if you liked the recipe. I will be very satisfied. Place in the fridge for 10-15 minutes. Divide 5 eggs into whites and yolks. Which city do you live in? What attractions do you have? Beat the egg whites with 150 grams of sugar. Gradually add the sugar in parts. Add the egg yolks. Add 150 grams of flour. Add 30 grams of cocoa. Add half a teaspoon of baking soda. Add 50 ml water. Bake at 180deg for 10-15 minutes. Take 180 grams of butter at room temperature. Write in the comments, do you prefer homemade baked goods or store-bought sweets?. Add 180 grams of condensed milk. Cover with foil and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Check the readiness of the cake with a toothpick. Break the crust into pieces. Grind the cake in a blender. Shape the cakes. I sculpt with gloves, but you can do it without just wetting your hands with water. Place in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Take 30 grams of butter at room temperature. Add 20 grams of powdered sugar. They turned out very tasty!