The Salang road in Afghanistan but there are no safety barriers All that stands between the drivers is their skill on the road. This road is really in a bad state. The government says they can't afford You bet, they're are just pocketing money! This road is a vital artery. It's the only way to connect Well, there is another way. Asadullah could bypass the mountains, as opposed to ten hours However, the poor state of the road have significantly slowed down traffic. Here, the problem is the snow and the mud. It blocks the traffic. Thousands of delivery trucks It's a test of patience I have until tonight. I just have to wait. There is no other solution. Who can I complain to? Who will listen to me? Not to mention the danger the avalanches. A few years ago, Not only that, the risk of running is never out of the question, something Asadullah has experienced. The government is doing nothing and the army says Last year, They took two whole trucks saying, &quot;This is the government's flour.&quot; They hit me, Now they say and they threaten me with death. I don't travel at night because I'm afraid These ambushes are far In Afghanistan, anything can happen. The state has difficulty The provinces are often not safe, as they're ruled Afghanistan is lacking in both state funds Look at this road. There is nobody to maintain it. Because of the snow, we've been For Afghans, it's an endless battle. In the mountains, going home Imagine if I don't put the chains on, If I crash and the passengers die, Thirty years of war I have seen the Russian army, With his old English truck, Anathula plays an important role The road is almost the only way and of course, it attracts the greedy. There are thieves on this road. They come out especially at night. Security agencies are probably in Afghanistan. All the contractors have bodyguards, because this country is too much As soon as anyone knows you get killed without hesitation. Most of the time, so everyone manages the best they can by doing small jobs, Afghans are just trying while the Taliban is trying to keep As a result, Only a few fearless ones I am the only merchant to come here. If the car breaks down, just sit down and trust in God! That's the life of the Afghans, moving forward without knowing Their freedom is a daily struggle. The city of Bamiyan blends in The outlines of houses are barely visible. The city seems to try and yet the whole world when the Taliban destroyed They shot down the two giant Buddhas of which the biggest was 55 meters tall. Their wisdom still shines Life is quiet in Bamiyan [Foreign language spoken audio] Whose bag is this? I changed it. It's mine. It's up to you to take care of it, Bring it over here. Can you squeeze in so they can get in? How are we going to do it so tight? Each departure is a game of Tetris Ali is one of the few to travel so everyone packs as much as they can. Put your stuff in the bag! Here! This will make a little room. How is it going? Don't forget that there's still a guy Yes, there is that, my God! You should not go there, Then there is still the doctor. Catch! My car is overloaded! Even with the choke, There is rice, oil, flour, and salt. These are the products Ali's car is very useful to us. How would we manage without it? Can you imagine in the cold with the children? I swear to God, there is no more room. I'm telling you that I can find one. This minibus has 12 seats, Yes, I have too many passengers, but if I don't take them today, It is Thursday and tomorrow For them, it's not possible What are you doing, hurry up, And if there is space for 20, well, -Where can I sit? Guys, that's too much wood. That's not right at all. Don't put it on, it's too much. You have to leave it. No, it's not too heavy. Look at the condition of the wheels, The car will break down. Ali takes to the direction forty kilometers I drive very carefully. Watch how slow I drive. Very slowly. If there is a problem or an accident, Most drivers, like Ali, In case of an accident, As for the passengers, he will compensate the families himself. Such is the law Constantly under pressure, Ali tightens the bolts from time to time The road to our home is dangerous. It was not well built. In winter, there were accidents. Not long ago, the driver of a truck loaded When they built the road, It's too narrow. They are fools to have done that. Foolish or just not able to do better, A little further on, To think that this road the rest of the journey In Afghanistan, The railway network is in its early stages so almost all the goods arrive by road, Fifteen thousand trucks It's a never-ending cycle as he returns from Afghanistan These trucks were transporting clothes They are waiting Today, at the border, the Afghan customs They ask us for $84. I have been a driver for 36 years. I have seen the Russian army, Americans, the Taliban, the Afghan communist party... The trucker has lived through the history He agrees that whatever the times, the checkpoints, that comes with them. It's better not to argue. I just got a fine. -What's the reason? When the Taliban we had many problems. However, since then, At least the Taliban took less money They let us pass and we were not stopped. Today, those who are in the government They are all thieves. Anathula is delivering his bananas He has to drive 130 kilometers where firearms are used Daring to cross it Fortunately, the trucker can count on Unbelievably, They all look-alike, This art of tuning was perhaps born not to mention that both the engine I transport bananas. Bananas are heavy. I have between 15 and 16 tons. It takes a truck like mine My truck is very strong. It's the strongest! This model has been around for 86 years. I had mine for 26 years. Thanks to God, my work allows me Until Afghanistan is at peace, he will have to rely Every time he loads goods in Pakistan, Anathula takes His younger brother takes it home. -Here are some bananas. There is no room for delay. Five minutes later, he's back on the road. I gave him flour, bananas, I have a big family. I have five brothers and three sisters. The driver and all his family a little village According to him, the terrorist group ISIS The Taliban have not been but ISIS has been here for a few months. They used to come to the house That's not all. To cross their territories, Has ISIS ever checked you? Yes, many times. They ask for a document that I have to buy If I don't have it, they arrest me and I have to follow them Instead of $27, For the driver and his truck, Delivering goods in Afghanistan, especially in winter. The scars of different conflicts The war prevents the country Poverty has set in. For the moment, it is impossible to exploit the tremendous wealth so in the meantime, Afghanistan remains focused Look at this road, Because of the snow, There is nobody to help us. These men are trying There is some dirt over here, No, you don't have that right, Having given up, the farmer They walk nearly a kilometer The bags are heavy, We have no fixed salary. We are paid per bag carried, $1 per bag. As a reminder of the war, the potatoes The potatoes from here are excellent. They are called &quot;Bombe Saray&quot;. I transport them to Kabul. Are you afraid of the Taliban on the road? Of course we are afraid of them Between the bandits and the Islamists, especially in the countryside. Fortunately, there is still solidarity into hostile areas. Like this vegetable seller. -This cauliflower is 50. No, I don't sell at that price. -Are your potatoes good? Would you like two bags? Winter is a difficult time for Pevez. The higher he goes, the colder it gets and the more likely it is that his goods He'd like to speed up, It's not a good day. It's starting to snow This road is dangerous. There are often landslides You have to be careful. There are often rocks on the road. Rockslides and avalanches His mini truck is not really cut out The risk is enormous, With this weather, people in the mountains I have a lot of vegetables left and I don't know At the end of the road, about 40 families They rarely go down to the valley. Without the vegetable merchant, I am the only merchant If my car breaks down, just sit down and trust in God! The only ones to roam these roads They are not far away, and we quickly understand -Do you have potatoes? -How much are they? -Can you make them for 150? -Two kilos. Wearing flip-flops in the snow, This one belongs to a Taliban family. Here is his big brother. As he approaches, visibly changes. The man is not aggressive but he asks us to turn back. Our Afghan guide gives us an explanation. The commanders here in this village, yes. That's why he didn't let us film him. It's not good for us to go up there. Pevez continues his journey alone, Fortunately, where peace has been established Since the fall of the Islamists in 2001, the city of Bamiyan but the war Entire families have been living dug between the second and fifth centuries who traveled on a pilgrimage to meditate Frishta and her family live We are living in the cave. This cave has a long stove and for our sleeping room as well. There are eight people. Electricity, and we do not have any drinking water. We are bringing our water The well is two kilometers away This is our bathroom We can use this one as a bathroom. We take our bath here, or we wash ourselves Living in the caves is not a normal life, and we are very unhappy It's very, very incredible and that we are living in the caves. It's hard to believe, saved her future. In order to get her out of this misery, For a girl, Today, Frishta is a teacher, but she also goes to college She attends school six days a week. -Number one. -Dance. -Dance. -Dance. -Dance. -Swim. -Swim. -Number three. -Run. There are 45 students, I am teaching them. Unfortunately, we have a problem Our space is very small. -Dance, dance. -Rocks, garden. Without her, these cave children I do my best with them on their education, and they are working hard Me too. I'm working hard and how they should read, and I encourage them According to UNICEF, 45 percent of men and 70 percent of women Education is the key to a peaceful future Frishta would like the men to understand. Understand that modernity but simply seeing In the mountains Ali, the minibus driver, He's been driving for two hours and has only covered Each kilometer tests his patience. I used to be a driver's assistant. That's how I learned It's been seven years and thank God I've never had an accident. Ali is approaching the section of road a long climb up the side of a ravine. Much precaution is needed. Without the chains, we won't go up. The car is too heavy. I won't be able to put the chains Instead of doing nothing, Come on, get in, let's go. Imagine if I didn't put the chains on. The car would slip! If I have an accident I'll have their blood on my hands. It took him four hours Once winter truly sets in, the inhabitants will be cut off In the meantime, deliveryman, and messenger. He's a vital link for his community. -Have you seen my father? We haven't heard from him in three days. He left for Kabul yesterday. We arrived safely, Thank God. Without this courageous driver, the inhabitants of this hamlet Is this yours? I'm happy to have brought them No problem, mission accomplished! I like my job. Anyway, I couldn't do anything else. The next morning, Snow has started to fall. Ali jumps in his minibus and picks up his passengers When he arrives at Bamiyan, The driver finds refuge with a cousin, who dissuades him Have some bread, guys! With this cold, Don't go back on the road. There's too much snow. It looks like the wrath of God... Why play with death? With all this snow, people are not crazy enough but we already knew It's not over, right? However, the lure of money of a little snow for Ali. A client offered him double the usual rate to drive up to the village but Ali must ask himself a question, When it snows like this, I'm afraid the car will skid or reverse A promise is a promise he'd rather die than not keep his promise. Only once he considers he doubts that he can reach the village. Since the times of the Silk Road, Afghanistan has been Today, the United States, Russia, in their fight to take control The bustling city of Jalalabad of the crossroads. Anathula comes here As the owner of this truck, he must do one rotation after another but as he begins to unload, Where can I park? My truck is fully loaded! Go and park it over there. Tonight, more trucks will arrive. We'll unload them all tomorrow. They don't want me to park I have to sleep in my truck. It's like my home. That's it, this is my life, Thirty years of conflict have taken a toll on Afghan agriculture. As a negative effect, the peasants, who makes up most have turned to a crop Opium brings in fortunes for the warlords, but the Afghans themselves Today, the country imports We put leaves and plastic They have to be well protected It's important that they stay green. If they're transported too ripe, the fruit could get damaged They will spend a few days a molding room where the bananas There are no forklift trucks here. Instead, the machines are men and their children are confined How much do you earn per day? I earn $2 per day. We all make $1 per truck. No machines, but enough work for everyone. The bananas are sold Between them, the competition is tough, but there is one man Kunshan is the banana king. Almost all this business and its distribution belong A small army protects him day and night, especially for his son. He travels around exclusively All entrepreneurs have bodyguards. There is too much insecurity As soon as they know you get killed without hesitation. The government must ensure the security so that Afghans no longer need to go to Iran or Europe, How many thousands of Afghans have died because of the cold or snow. Every year, hoping to find Anathula does not complain. Thanks to his old truck, which is unheard of in Afghanistan. The average salary is around $60. His family has all they need in life, but he must accept this solitary life so from time to time he treats himself I would love a red flower. There in the middle of the hood. I like roses, I love my truck, No templates nor pencil sketches. The painter is very skilled. It's a tradition. Afghan drivers love with flowers to make them look nice. In our country, It's very appreciated, it brings joy. -That's it, it's finished. In a few years, his whole truck In Bamiyan, in the mountains, is trying to reach the village. The state of the road The Taliban have been spotted in the area. Today the sheep tied on the roof even if he tries There are places where there are Taliban Sometimes we even fall At the moment in Bamiyan, Neither ISIS nor the Taliban scare us. If you start to be afraid of them, However, the fear is very much there. While attaching chains to the wheels, one of the travelers Ali kept his word. He arrived safely, but it took him six hours I feel like they are doing well, They have ants on their legs Ali is still young, but the stress He's already thought of stopping. As long as I have the strength Afterward, we will see. His dream is to fly a helicopter. Everyone sensed it but like a thunderclap, After 19 years without any attack, the Taliban are back. An attack has just hit Bamiyan. Two bombs have exploded. Fifty injured Yesterday, around 4:30 p.m., I was in my store The blast made me fall down. I didn't understand anything. When I went out, They were dead. Life resumes the next day, but the battle for freedom Twenty years after intervening, the American army Peaceful valleys like Bamiyan, where the quest for freedom prevail at the same time, However, the Afghan spirit &quot;They can kill all the swallows,&quot; &quot;but they won't prevent the spring