Translator: Camille Martinez My students often ask me, And I tell them it's the study of the way by things that they don't see. And they say, &quot;So, How can I understand And I say, &quot;Empathy. Start with empathy. It all begins with empathy. Take yourself out of your shoes, put yourself into the shoes Here, I'll give you an example. So I imagine my life China had been the most powerful and they came to the United States And they found it, and, in fact, And pretty soon, ton by ton, railcar by railcar, boatload by boatload, back to China and elsewhere And they got fabulously And they built beautiful cities all powered on that coal. And back here in the United States, back here we saw economic despair, deprivation. This is what I saw. I saw people struggling to get by, not knowing what was what And I asked myself the question: How is it possible that we could because coal is such a wealthy And I realize: because the Chinese ingratiated themselves with a small ruling class who stole all of that money And the rest of us, struggle to get by. And the Chinese loads of military weapons in order to ensure that people like me would not speak out Does this sound familiar? And they did things like train Americans And everywhere, there were everywhere, a constant reminder. And back in China, what do they say in China? Nothing! They don't talk about us. If you ask them, they'll say, &quot;Well, you know, I mean, come on, I'm not going You can't expect that.&quot; And so, I get angry, and I get pissed, as do lots of average people. And we fight back, And the Chinese respond And before we know it, and they send in the troops. And lots of people are dying. And it's a very, very difficult situation. Can you feel me? Can you imagine what you would feel if you were in my shoes? Can you imagine and seeing a tank sitting out there, or a truck full of soldiers? Just imagine what you would feel, you know what they're doing here. And you just feel the anger If you can, that's empathy. You've left your shoes, And you've got to feel that. OK, so that's the warm-up. That's the warm-up. Now we're going to have So, for the remainder of my talk, is put yourselves in the shoes living in the Middle East -- in particular, in Iraq. And so to help you, perhaps you're a member What you want is the best for your kids. You want your kids to have a better life. And you watch the news, you pay attention. You read the newspaper, you go down you read the newspapers Sometimes you even watch satellite, You have a sense of what But really, you just want That's what you want. You're Arab Muslim living in Iraq. You want a better life for yourself. So here, let me help you. Let me help you with some things Number one: this incursion into your land the reason anyone and particularly It's all about oil; you know that, People back in the United States It's because somebody else It's your resource -- It's your land; it's your resource. Somebody else has a design for it. And you know why they have a design? You know why they have Because they have that's dependent oil from other parts of the world And what else do you think The Americans, they're rich. Come on, they live in big houses, They all have blond hair, You think that. It's not true, of course, And that's what you get. And they have big cities, and the cities are all dependent on oil. And back home, what do you see? Poverty, despair, struggle. Look, you don't live in a wealthy country. I mean -- this is Iraq. This is what you see. You see people struggling to get by. It's not easy; you see a lot of poverty. And you feel something about this. These people have designs and this is what you see? It doesn't feel good. But here, couple other things. Something else you see Americans don't talk there's this thing, and it's centered And the United States is responsible for almost one half Four percent of the world's population! And you feel it; you see it every day. It's part of your life. And you talk about it with your friends. You read about it. And back when Saddam Hussein was in power, the Americans didn't care When he was gassing they didn't care about it. When oil was at stake, somehow, suddenly, things mattered. And what you see, something else: the United States, the hub of democracy around the world -- they don't seem to really be supporting all around the world. There are a lot of countries, that aren't very democratic, That's odd. Oh -- these incursions - these two wars, the eight years of occupation, the insurgency that's been the tens of thousands, of civilian deaths? All because of oil. You can't help but think that. You talk about it. It's in the forefront You say, &quot;How is that possible?&quot; Come on. And this man, he's everyman -- your grandfather, your uncle, your father, your son, your neighbor, your professor, your student. Once a life of happiness and joy and suddenly, pain and sorrow. Everyone in your country the bloodshed, the pain, Not a single person in your country But there's something else. There's something else about these people, There's something else that they don't see themselves. And what do you see? They're Christians! They're Christians. They worship the Christian God, Their Bibles have a little insignia that says &quot;US Army&quot; on them. And their leaders, their leaders: before they send their sons and daughters and you know the reason -- before they send them off, they go to a Christian church, and they ask for protection Why? Well, obviously, they are Muslims, they are Iraqis -- You don't want Americans to die -- And you feel something about that -- of course you do. And they do wonderful things, beautiful humanitarian things. But these humanitarians, You read about it, you hear about it. They're there to build schools That's what they want to do. They do wonderful things, and you can't tell the difference. And this guy, you get a guy Here's a guy who says Your god's an idol; The solution to the problem is to convert you all to Christianity -- just get rid of your religion. And you know that. They don't know anything You pass it around. I mean, this is serious. You're afraid. He was one of the leading commanders And you're thinking, then all the soldiers And this word here -- George Bush called this war a crusade. Man, the Americans, Whatever. I don't know what that means.&quot; You know what it means -- Look, invade, subdue them, If they won't submit, kill them. That's what this is about. And you're thinking, &quot;My God, This is frightening. You feel frightened. Of course you feel frightened. Why wouldn't you feel frightened. And this man, Terry Jones: I mean here's a guy And the Americans: He's a former hotel manager; he's got They laugh him off. You don't laugh him off, all the pieces fit. Of course this is how Americans think. So people all over the Middle East, are protesting. &quot;He wants to burn Qurans, our holy book. These Christians -- They're so evil, they're so mean -- This is what you're thinking as an Iraqi. Of course you're going to think this. How can you not think this? And then your cousin says, You've got to see this -- Bible Boot Camp. These Christians are nuts! They're training their little kids They take little kids till they teach them and things like 'grenade toss' And go to the website -- I mean, these Christians, they're nuts. How can they do this And you're reading this website. And of course, Christians says, &quot;This is some little church You don't know that. For you, this is like, all Christians. It's all over the Web: &quot;Bible Boot Camp.&quot; And look at this. They even teach their kids -- they train them in the same way Isn't that interesting. And it scares you, and it frightens you. So these guys, you see them. You see, I, Sam Richards -- They're my students, my friends; You don't know. When you see them, they're something else. They're something else. That's what they are to you. We don't see it that way but you see it that way. So here. Of course, you've got it wrong. You're generalizing. It's wrong. You don't understand the Americans. It's not a Christian invasion. We're not just there for oil; You have it wrong. You've missed it. And of course, most of you you don't support killing Americans; you don't support the terrorists. Of course you don't. Very few people do. But -- some of you do. And this is a perspective. OK. So now, here's what we're going to do. Step outside of your shoes and step back into your normal shoes. So everyone's back in the room. OK? Now here comes the radical experiment. So we're all back home. This photo: this woman -- man, I feel her. I feel her. She's my sister, my wife, my cousin, my neighbor. She's anybody to me. These guys standing there, I feel this photo, man. So here's what I want you to do. Let's go back to my first I want you to go there. It's all about coal, and the Chinese What I want you to do is picture her as a Chinese woman because her loved one has died And the soldiers are Chinese, and everybody else is Chinese. As an American, how do you feel What do you think about that scene? OK, try this. Bring it back. This is the scene here. It's an American, American soldiers, American woman who lost in Iraq or Afghanistan. Now, put yourself in the shoes, go back to the shoes What are you feeling and thinking about this woman? OK, now follow me on this, because I'm taking a big risk here. And so I'm going to invite you Okay? These gentlemen here, they're insurgents. They were caught by the American soldiers, And maybe they succeeded. Put yourself in the shoes Can you feel the rage? Can you feel that you just want and wring their necks? Can you go there? It shouldn't be that difficult. You just -- oh, man. Now, put yourself in their shoes. Are they brutal killers or patriotic defenders? Which one? Can you feel their anger, their fear, their rage at what has happened in their country? Can you imagine that maybe bent down to their child and said, &quot;Dear, I'll be back later. I'm going out to defend I'm going out to look out for us, the future of our country.&quot; Can you imagine that? Can you imagine saying that? Can you go there? What do you think they're feeling? You see, that's empathy. It's also understanding. [understand] Now, you might ask, &quot;OK, Sam, so why do you Why would you use And I say, because. You're allowed to hate these people. You're allowed to just hate them And if I can get you and walk an inch -- one tiny inch -- then imagine the kind that you can do in all other You can walk a mile when it comes to understanding why in the passing lane; or your teenage son; or your neighbor who annoys you Whatever it is, you can go so far. And this is what I tell my students: step outside of your tiny, little world. Step inside of the tiny, And then do it again and do it again and do it again. And suddenly, all these tiny, they come together in this complex web. And they build a big, complex world. And suddenly, without realizing it, you're seeing the world differently. Everything has changed. Everything in your life has changed. And that's, of course, what this is about. Attend to other lives, other visions. Listen to other people, enlighten ourselves. Abd so, what I will say here is, I'm not saying that I support But as a sociologist, what I am saying is: I understand. And now perhaps -- perhaps -- you do, too. Thank you. (Applause)