Hi! This is a crazy headlamp for a car. Its light source is not a halogen bulb or an LED. It is a laser! In this video, I will take a closer look at how After figuring out how to power its sensitive laser diode How strong is this laser meant to be put into a car? Let's find out! When experimenting with a laser, wear safety glasses And never look directly into at a high-power LED or LEP. This headlamp is sold on eBay without any power supply. So my first challenge is to find a suitable driver Would be sad to destroy a 69 dollars light within seconds. Luckily, the listing came with some clues on how to power it up. It uses a 450 nm laser at the border between indigo and blue Quite a lot of amps for a single diode. But I found this driver board that will deliver a Nice. However, I have never bought a laser diode and How do I make sure this driver To get some hands-on experience, I will take it step by step. The issue is laser diodes have a bad behavior In short, they decrease their resistance This will lead to a destructive thermal runaway when The best way to stop this vicious circle, Limit how much current the laser diode is allowed to draw. Alright. First step in my needed Set up the multimeter to read a current of 3A DC As a dummy load, I will use a resistor with around the I will not limit the voltage, I will only limit the current There we are. The circuit is now set to 3 amps But this was way too easy. Unlike a laser diode, this resistor does Next step in the challenge is to use light emitting diodes. Just like laser diodes, they do have This mess is four high-power LEDs wired in parallel. Each LED will handle 750 milliamps so Perfect. After double-checking correct polarity, + to +, let's see what 3A will do to this circuit. Okay. They are already getting bright. I will diffuse them to spare my eyes and camera. Success! The LEDs are fully powered up under conditions that are very The power supply is providing 4.1 volts to the circuit. You might think it is a bit high for LEDs listed as 3.2 to 3.8V. But I am not worried, because the current is right for the LEDs. And there is a voltage drop across the The forward voltage across the LEDs is not the full 4.1V. I can simply show it by removing This time with glass for a welding mask 3.8V - within specs. Makes sense the voltage is at the high end, Keeping them cool, keeps their resistance at their high end. Which in turn means a higher voltage is At this point, it is tempting to just But laser diodes are way more sensitive than LEDs, and this Switch-mode is inherently noisy with ripples in the output. I don't trust this power supply to safely run a This is where the laser driver board comes in. It is designed to deliver laser-friendly electricity. The driver will run on anything between 9 to 12 volts DC. I could use a battery, but I already Just need to change it from limiting current to limiting voltage. I will set it to max 9 volts. Should be plenty enough as the driver board only needs Before hooking up the driver board, I am using a trimmer tool since it is sleeved. Making it less likely that the tool while I am looking at the multimeter to dial in the current. The potentiometer does not seem to have a hard stop After making sure, I got all the polarities right Great start. At 81 mA, the LEDs are already lit up. Time to see if this tiny driver will deliver 3 amps. Hmmmmm. Nope. The current is climbing now. This type of potentiometer really takes a lot of turns. Useful for higher precision. Nice. This will deliver 3 amps at around 4 volts. Time to test the laser. After resetting the driver to minimum A big, BIG thanks to all my patrons! I appreciate your help with keeping For just a dollar a month you can help me out too Link in the description. Thank you! Okay. After having built up a proper setup I am ready to power up the laser headlamp. Only one more precaution to take care of. Laser diodes are destroyed by electrostatic discharges. I will therefore baby the headlamp at a static-free I will also make sure the driver does not have that would dump too much unregulated current Good - no charge remaining. I will attach the laser while making sure + goes to +. With laser safety glasses on, I am finally ready to power it on. Will it work? Oh yes. Even at lowest driver setting, The laser is shining its blue light down on a phosphor This is known as LEP - laser excited phosphor. Let's give it some more juice... Oohkayy... I am not sure this is good for my camera's sensor. Let me diffuse the light. Wow. This is intensely bright. Hard to see on the overexposed camera How strong is the laser in this headlamp? Definitely stronger than my I need to find some M2 screws to For short runs it is fine though. To double-check I am running the laser diode within specs 4.3V including the multimeter driven in series. That is fine. The power loss in the driver is around 3 watts. A small cooling fan on the heatsink might be a good idea Regarding power, the specifications do not I believe there are some hidden clues though. Suggesting a laser around 3900 milliwatts. Really? That's a very, very strong laser. Almost 3 times stronger than my Arctic laser? Almost 8 times stronger than the threshold for Class 4 lasers? The highest laser risk class. I must be reading the specs wrongly. Well, only one way to find out. Measure it on a laser power meter. To gain access to the laser beam, I will remove A torx T6 bit will do the job. There we go. Don't lose the tiny lock washers. Even though they are magnetic in case you The laser beam is reflected straight down onto the phosphor Some laser power will be lost A first-surface mirror will reflect around 95% or so. Only a 5% loss but worth keeping in mind. Now, before the final test, I would like to tell you about for measuring high-energy photons, This is the Radiacode radiation detector. A tiny device packed with features that old-fashioned Not only is it a detector and precise dosimeter, it is also a gamma spectrometer with isotope Another feature is its radiation mapping. When paired with your smartphone, the Radiacode You might discover exciting radiation For example from granite buildings and tiles or that Finding radiation sources can add some spice For much more information, Link in the description. Use the promo code &quot;Brainiac75&quot; to take Details are in the video description. Thanks RadiaCode, for making a difference Now, back to the laser radiation. Alright. With laser safety glasses on and we will now find out if this is That's a lot of photons! It peaked at 4,370 mW after mirror reflection. Likely 4,600 mW before the mirror. Wow! To make things even crazier, the listing says It is the phosphor that will give up first Astonishing! Click like if this laser excites you In my next video, I will test this little gem further Remember to subscribe and turn on the full And comment if you have ideas In any case, thanks for watching.