My dear elegant ladies, in today's video, we're going to uncover how to upgrade in life. Because ladies, there are some interesting lessons as a case study to improve our own lives. But before I dig into that, I am Anna and I teach on topics and transformation. You can learn But before we continue, a little reminder, subscribe to my channel because every So make sure you are subscribed. Let's start with the story of Meghan. And I want to actually begin with the about her background and about her parents, etc. So Meghan was born in Sunny, on August 4th in 1981. That means that she's 40 years old and Now, do I have any Leo ladies with As you ladies know, I do enjoy astrology very much and just like the Leo is a fire sign. So Meghan is a fire sign basically. And what I know of the Leo star They're very influential and they And also funny enough, they tend to enjoy and to kind of be the center of attention, which really makes sense why Going back to Meghan's age, she recently celebrated her birthday That actually means that which for us might not sound like a for an old school circle that could have been something that they when Harry introduced Meghan but it sure might come across her name is Doria and she's based in and she still works there as a social worker at Didi Hirsch Mental Organization. Now Meghan describes her mom as this free-spirited woman who is into yoga and with who she has this really Now Meghan's father, however, I'm sure you've heard about at this point, as they have had their and I'm not really going to go into any focus is today. But let's I think like many people have a complicated relationship with her father and I don't think there's I think that many of us can actually parents and child relationship, aren't let's put it this way. So Meghan's father is Thomas. He is a former lighting director who Hollywood TV shows. And that's actually who he married in 1979. Because they met at work when she was as a lighting director in the same studios I actually think that there's no surprise film industry one day as she often was walking around on the sets And I think that maybe this way, she got inspired to pursue a And even though I do think but she still decided to double at university to kind of just wouldn't work out. But going back to because they divorced when Meghan was for about 10 years. They didn't end up having any more However, Meghan's father had two So he had it with another woman and Samantha and Thomas Jr. which unfortunately also there is a Meghan did continue to live with but she was still seeing her I'm definitely just based on the little insight that we I think that Doria does come across kind of the on-call and collected social worker, who I think gave her daughter a pretty because it's not easy to be And it seems that Thomas could be So I do believe that Doria actually serenity that a child needs at that age a divorce. We can be wrong, of Now what's really interesting is that when Meghan was at the age of nine, her father won the lottery. And we're talking about it is a lot of money, but can you imagine in 1990 It's like they became millionaires Now why was that an important milestone Well, because a small part of this money was actually invested in You see, even though they Meghan's father was actually very fond best for her. This way, all girl Catholic high school that plus she was also able to take also go to university. And you know what, she ended up being the first person in This doesn't mean however that everything just because her father invested in You know, like many regular young people, Meghan actually had to also get a But she went to work as a taught bookbinding. And this was all thanks to the because there, she was taking six years, which grew into which she was able to later capitalize on. I personally think this is pretty cool were working in coffee she was offering calligraphy It's a very interesting skill set to have, and something that will definitely raise they meet you and you share this make sure you have an interesting that you share with people that you meet. And if you don't have a fun fact, then maybe it's time to get one. After Meghan graduated she went on to study at got herself a degree with a double major She took the political side and actually interned at the American But her political career didn't actually high enough in one of her tests to move So she ended up returning to university kind of like a sabbatical One thing that I can tell you is Meghan by nature during her college years. And I think her sorority was called And if you were curious to find then ladies, visit Networkingtype.com and let me know what you get in the comments below. It's a free quiz that I have created if you just go to that link. Now, I guess you could say so far that Meghan was this kind of all American girl who had bigger, more international dreams for herself small town girl as such, but she certainly wanted to explore And her close friends today have always striving to reinvent herself And maybe it was a calculated but her mindset and her ambition are really what got her ahead So that's a very important takeaway mindset is everything. And you cannot limit yourself because have big results. And that's why in my teachings, I lead with the motto And if you just take action, Meghan certainly took action which is why this is so inspiring. Ladies, we are reaching the most her love life and her career. And actually, parts of it are interconnected. So I'm going to really make it as easy as possible So when Meghan came back to the US she was 23 years old and who she fell in love with, They met in LA in 2004, and he was a 20-year-old who worked in the movie industry. Trevor and Meghan shared their They have that in common. So I guess that was one of the points Meghan, kind of as the aspiring actress and Trevor as the aspiring And today, Trevor is a successful and also talent agent in the But back when the couple met, he was just working his way up the ladder take off. And you know what? but Trevor was a bit further ahead he was a total go-getter like herself, really taking on challenges to reach the status that he has today. So they were similar in which is why I think that they relationship that lasted they were together for about 10 years. Around those years when Meghan and she is in a relationship with Trevor, she would be focusing on getting So she would be basically taking on that would come her way, but also she would One job that really comes to was when she was working as a game show on TV called Deal or No Deal, I think she lasted for about but I know that she didn't Because you had to kind of just stand the her number rarely got picked, meaning that she never got instead, she had to spend But you know that during those years I think it was 2006, Trevor started to actually have some really good progress in his own career. He was no longer just He upgraded a bit and began to This became really helpful she started getting more and more her husband started to became a bigger name in she was able to also slowly but still very much baby steps though. And we're talking about small However, something happened in 2010 and 2011, really important years for So what happened was that Trevor got to Many of you probably know the movie, And luckily, Meghan was also able to get her having a small role too. things really began taking off she was able to get even bigger in bigger movies, like Get Him to the Greek, CSI Miami, Horrible Bosses, etc. I mean, we're not talking any but they were still bigger than before. more important. And the couple, both of them really seem to have they also have momentum Because after having been they finally got married in 2011. 2011 was also the year finally got her big breakthrough And ladies, that's when she got the Suits. And that was the beginning of the seven her career really peaked she became a superstar. I'm sure you think that all dreams Well, it depends because actually, success does come at a cost sometimes, she and her husband, Because now they were in a long was filming Suits in Canada while her husband was very Hollywood producing movies. Now imagine, that's a five hour flight away. And with both of them having it was most likely, very difficult And both wanted to probably because they have been working so hard to achieve all of this. And I don't think one of them would in order to make the marriage work. Meghan actually initiated the when Meghan was 32 years old. And the couple split with the reason of Oh no, divorce at the age of 32? Now something like this can cause because I think many of us, we pay attention to the And I don't know how Meghan but I also do think that because Meghan I can just imagine that she kept herself thinking that it's game over. I have a feeling that Meghan wasn't just like that because I felt that anything is possible. I'm just going to keep on going Now, another thing that I do appreciate with pretty much the same to tell you That is to actually move as soon as possible. who's got time to waste? But I know but there is enough evidence that shows a Canadian ice hockey player, Michael Del Zotto, right around the And I know that some people are that's so soon, how cold-hearted. I personally think bravo, you know what, Men do this all the time. So why should a woman sit around and months while nobody, nobody raises an eyebrow as a new woman, as soon as he has But obviously, if a woman does the Anyway, just a little FYI. So she ended up dating but unfortunately, that didn't work out. a professional golf player who she was also seeing for a while, Some would probably freak out Meghan just kept going she would meet her final a well-known celebrity chef named Corey Vitiello. And they were together in a until 2006, which is coincidentally the year But how did Meghan One thing that we know for sure is that but I'm going to give you Because what happened was she had been traveling a lot to And she really liked Europe. Now remember those 111 times your network is your net worth? Aren't you sick and tired This story is such a Meghan, she was the one who was always socializing and easily building friendships with people because she is simply she also has a career where easier for her because when you hold a certain celebrity status higher caliber of people. And as a result, this helped Meghan tremendously during very important connections in Europe, connections that had Prince Harry So one day, allegedly, Harry had told his someone and that person perfect girl for him. And guess Meghan Markle. Yes, ladies. The girl that they had in mind was Meghan and the two got introduced to each other on a blind date. Now to end the story, the blind date happened in Swanky Soho House in London, where they met up for drinks and I would say to the point that they And what's good in the story is that Harry was a little bit all he invited her on a trip to Botswana about three or four weeks later and the couple announced their engagement. I think we know that story. I really did enjoy researching really proves once again that and goes after what they want, anything becomes possible and a life beyond their wildest dreams, if they are smart and never again give up. Last but not least, I do think that Meghan has been smart in her goals and understood the really utilized it. Because if it introducing her to Harry, And I feel very much for that because And I don't want my ladies to underestimate socializing when it's such an important part of success when you are leveling up. Now, I hope you have enjoyed this video. If you haven't Kate Middleton's changed her life, then because then we have another great can get the chance to enter Ladies. I will see you in that video.