Hey everyone, Ali Mattu here, and I am with I'm an actor a stand up comedian podcaster Yes. Thank you for also saying that I wanted to myths. Yes. and I Thought you'd be an awesome person I appreciate that. I am an expert in as much as I live with it comedy about it. So let's let's do that. Well not that well maybe comedy. OK. What's your what's your first one? The first one and this is one that I remember means you're just angry. It also means that you're anxious it also and irritable because things are going. It feels like everything's going to slow. And it means you're going really really fast And those are the two ways I like to define But it also can mean anxious or just kind For some people it might not be anger but being emotionally set off. And when you have those ups and downs during factors and not the disorder like Oh you had haven't eaten or drank enough water that day please. Yeah that's another one that I had which is Yeah I think everybody experiences every range mentally ill. People feel things that everybody feels things Are people like Oh are you just saying this of bipolar people don't necessarily attribute But I know I do. I look at my own feelings and I'm like Are What is it emotional reasoning. Are you feeling something and trying to tack I feel like neurotypical people don't question They're like oh I'm offended whereas I have too good or am I just in a good mood. But sometimes people have gone look man Are Are you actually sad. Are you sad. Are you sad about this movie or are you just And that's hard because it kind of gaslights goes into something kind of linked into my And it is that we're all like abusive or that people Ali we're sensitive to people. And I think that's the main common denominator disorder they're very sensitive and they they Trying to get someone as something out of And you should be on this journey with me We just are experiencing things like normal And when anybody experiences anything they That's the our whole drive as a species is How I describe it to folks is you know imagine in a hospital and the windows open so there's No one else in that room really notice is But if that layer of protection that your not there you experience that wind in such So a lot of folks with bipolar depression than other people might. There's a certain beauty of being that sensitive it's one of the things that I've cried about That's not normal. You shouldn't romanticize it is there. It's an illness it's a disease and you've it could. The idea that it's your fault. Sure it's a huge myth. OK. So it's a little Good Will Hunting there that It's a very biologically based problem it There's a strong genetic component to it. It's not your fault that you're experiencing It's your responsibility. Yes. You have to figure out how to deal with it It is absolutely up to you to own up to what in your life and reform your life. So you are happy and healthy and the other is that we should all be on medication medication box of many you should have a big old tool when it gets really really bad. But never when I don't need it. And I think that's something that should be the right fit rather than everybody should That's totally everybody should be on a mood some people aren't. And you got to whatever makes you function What goes along with what you're saying too like it's not just about medication as the Behavioral Therapy Dialectical Behavioral The way I say it in my set it's like we having of like because you know every day you're Oh it's intrusive thought syndrome. It's chunky what are the chunks you know that Another one I have is that we're dangerous as unpredictable which is understandable because that sensitivity a lot of us are really kind We're not all mean. Yeah we're not all mean. Ali No. I know. I know you're super nice people who experience the victims of violence. Yeah than those who cause violent acts. The next one I have is that we're just depressed don't know what bipolar depression is. What is bipolar disorder. Tristan? I think Carrie Fisher put it so well it's really sad. A lot of people think it's happy and sad. It's really like saying it's really fast and fast days and some days the slowness is because where things kind of just drip out. And then other days everything pours out. That's another metaphor she came up with. It's a faucet an emotional faucet and either Your personality is still there even when You're like there's that whole thing you are you are not it that gets into one of mind Yeah. It's a fun. Yeah it's a ride. It's great. Generally I've found that people with bipolar they're depressed. They end up when they're up and they've had Once again Carrie was really open about her because she thought the walls were talking That's hard. That's not fun. You know no one likes that. No one likes being delusional it's scary. It's really frightening. And this ties into the next thing I have and disorder like hypomania a sustainable as a little bit more euphoric I think and a little I know there have been times where I just want to get back to where I feel creative which is so hard because it's not sustainable. It'll go away every time. The key to being successful with living with how do you deal with your life. Patton Oswalt was talking about his experience and if your artist and mentally ill you do actually my next one is that the disorder spoken very openly about. Once I was on medication. Thoughts came easier to me. I didn't get in my own way. And so if you can step to the side and let if it's medication it's therapy if it's being being creative. Just do it. What questions do you have about bipolar disorder Let us know in the comments below. Where can people find more of your awesome J Miller dot com. You've got a YouTube channel too get where put a card right over there click on that So beautiful! Yeah I know. I know you did really good work. Thank you. Yeah I programmed that myself. Yeah. Thanks for being on the show. Tristan. we're going to do another episode. Oh yeah yeah. It's going to be about how to cope with bipolar Yes. I think that's almost more important in a Yeah but we can say that now because you just out that video and see you soon.