The King and the Golem. Written by Richard Ngo. who had everything in the world Who could he trust, might scheme for his throne? of trust that He asked his subjects to bring him in the kingdom, if they succeeded. arrived at his palace to try. of lessons. but we know mathematics, those we can trust. I know it like the back of my hand. and every detail of it, The King asked his wisest scholars But as they read her book, It was only written by humans, Then the king told the farmer But he was not used to plowing fields and his trusty plow would often sink So the king was not satisfied even further afield. I met him on the road here water and shelter. He has no family during which I will provide He has nothing to gain This is what allows true trust. I've raised her to say only good words As long as she is not corrupted, the most trustworthy in the kingdom. How did you end up The beggar let out a sigh The neighbors who refused to help him The murder of his son by bandits The sickness that took his wife for a pittance in squalid conditions. Very surely. who have wronged you, then. to denounce this merchant. did not take long. was broken easily too. How did you raise such a child? Well, once or twice. and she learns fast. of children, ruled that for a month the child in any way. she was as wild and tempestuous So the king remained unsatisfied for the most Now his subjects An economist brought him a book Any individual might vary and change, their behavior follows laws A philosopher brought a mirror. only you are truly trustworthy, sire. The king scrutinized The trend changed here 15 years ago. The economist launched And did you discover this explanation Uh, after, your Highness. when the next such change great rewards if you're right, What say you? and tables, but could not find and left court that same night. the king ordered him whipped. it would be an unjust and would undermine I agree that your arguments but the original order trustworthy person in the land. my judgment based on arguments as you have yourself said, At that, the philosopher So the king was still not satisfied. if no truly trustworthy thing he would have to build one. to construct a golem sparing no expense. to write down all their knowledge that would animate the golem. such was the care they took, the golem stood before him, its polished surface its face blank. Many things, sire. I can bake bread and brew beer. and teach children. and I will follow your command. Over the next year, watched it carefully a multitude of their instructions, so that it might subsequently passed without any mistakes But could the king trust the golem? And so he became more creative. freedom, fame, fortune. He gave it the run of his palace that it could act however it wished. that its behavior Finally, he sent it out to work for his citizens And it was so tireless and diligent great wealth to the kingdom. his golem grew ever more powerful. the writing in its head so that they could fit and experience. and help them with their work, to aid his officers Often, when difficulties arose, to ensure that the king's intentions without stoking their resentment One day, as the king heard a report that the golem he realized that the golem and more capable than he himself. to appear before him I've seen my courtiers and trusting And I have seen your skill If you were to start weaving plots I could no longer notice or stop you. to let you Of course, sire. I was designed, I have made mistakes, Many of my courtiers yet scheme to So how could I know for sure It is simple. as I stand inside it. but you will know even unto the end. and expense to create you, how loath I would be to lose you. that I will tell you and so you would do this merely If I were untrustworthy then that is a stratagem I might use, compel me otherwise. nor can any of my scribes, has taken the labor So it will be a leap of faith The king took off his crown, The golem stood in front of him: They stayed like that, until the golden sun and the day was lost to twilight.