Can I say that? OK. Sorry. I'll start again. Hello, I'm Paddy O'Donnell and I'm Brand Ambassador at Farrow and Ball and this is where I live. Let me show you around. Into the kitchen. Don't judge me it's a really old kitchen. Here, there's quite a lot There's a door coming in, there's the pantry door, And so there's a lot of ... I didn't want to frame those in an off- So we kind of So this kind of just softens It makes the wall And the colour I used Farrow and Ball colour called 'Biscuit'. It's a really lovely easy neutral. It's got quite a bit And as I'm a child of the 80s, The house is very much an homage to 80s decoration. it is my mother's house and, bless her, it looked lovely in the 80s, but we've kind of tweaked it a little bit. I've gone slightly camp in here, which is a really old Colfax paper I've been dragging it round in a bag And kind of had fun. I've got loads of these green I kind of collect them from kind of junk More tat and this is literally from Tat - The candelabras, which I really Old mirror from Ireland. Candlesticks, lot of candlesticks everywhere. Lovely wheatsheaf lamp, Kind of 1960s wheatsheaf. This is my Ikea hack: I did a of the pair of these. They're old trays, from Ikea And I had this box of intaglios. I just hoard stuff. So it's not like, there's or reason of logic of how things end up. It's usually a sense of where is available So don't zoom in too close because you will see holes on every surface where I've done a rehang. So here we are, in my office. Used to be dark green, and those that have seen me on the Farrow and Ball videos will know that it was dark green, 'Minster Green'. Much beloved. But I decided to go for wallpaper in here. It felt like a change, because of my rehanging problem. So we've used this lovely paper It's an archive design of ours Really sweet. I think they're really easy to live with. Wallpaper is quite a commitment for a lot of people financially, a treat because things still sit on them It's lovely 'Stone Blue', and 'Shaded White' is the ground colour. And what I've done here - nothing too is framing the paper by using the 'Stone on the woodwork, and it just gives it I think the white or the 'Shaded White' I think the darker colour just works But my favourite thing here And this is my drawer Colour boards. More wallpaper samples. Lovely thing, when I'm kind of thinking about design, It is all the other elements. I'm always saying to people, just think of the colour. Don't tie yourself into the colour. Think of all the elements that you're So your flooring, your fabric, even your artwork, you know, So I have this lovely, lovely box of fabrics, More trims in the wrong drawer. It's a bit chaotic, but I kind of love it. I really like it. I think if you love interiors, a source pool of stuff. always encourage when you're considering a room, because you can see how all the colours So most people will be really nervous because of moisture levels, But most modern bathrooms This one doesn't the window is nearly always open, And actually, it doesn't steam up So I wanted paper in here. And this is an archive Farrow and Ball paper called 'Orleans Stripe' in two lovely colours: it's 'Green Ground' and then the print on here is 'Pointing', And the 'Green Ground' is a lovely, soft, slightly And I guess you can see I've got more stuff all over the walls. Madly, madly, slightly camp blinds. A print of kind of monkeys and palm trees So I'm clearly a buxom barmaid in a former life, because obviously I love animal print. So don't freak out about wallpaper in It's really beautiful. It gives a lovely, lovely, layered look. And I'm all for the layered look. More trompe l'oeil or not necessarily trompe l'oeil and you can do it with new paint, And again, And I was like, what can I do? Because I've got a kind of not particularly good piece of furniture, you know, a period it would be kind of funny to do something So I painted the whole door. I kind of broadened it. So I've kind of taken the colour out broken pediment with little urns on it. And so I kind of made this slightly grand looking door in a very ordinary 1930s suburban home. But I love it. It just kind of makes me chuckle. So more things So this is the latest room Normally I don't do a lot of decorating. I have done a lot in the last 12 months, I usually kind of decorate a room, But in here, but it's also my other half's &quot;atelier&quot;, he says very grandly. And if you don't know who and he has a little business called bargello stitch, hand-stitch cushions. But is a guest room as much as his studio and I, again, if I say things are on a budget it sounds really disingenuous. but there are elements we couldn't change So we couldn't have a new track here. Had new curtains in here. This lovely Sibyl Colefax chintz. But I could see the track board, I'd actually just been for supper and Gavin had this brilliant sort of So I kind of nabbed an idea from Gavin, I'm a real sponge of people, There's not original bone in my body. But I kind of did And I had some blue linen. And I sent it to my brilliant curtain And just did this template for her So it's just double-sided linen just Velcroed up So you don't have to spend a fortune. I think that it was my fabric, and it kind of serves a purpose, at the same time. What I like doing, It's a fairly common trope, break up the bookshelf If you kind of think, In fact, it's really crude. I've got the smallest, weeniest picture hook. It's probably better You don't need to hooks but two pins here, So this does move a lot. And that is it. The picture is highly strung on the back, which helps, See it won't go straight now. Et voila! It breaks up And so you can put all your really crappy, So you're Jackie Collins can go behind And the other thing I really love, and I think it's really worth knowing, is in small rooms, because I think Oh, we've got a small room so therefore we have Which can often look really mean Really important, you don't want one So everything kind of at this line. So this is really nice travels through the room But also brown furniture is such good value And then actually, don't be afraid I've got plenty. And actually, I've got a really - it's not the most beautiful thing but I love it at a Christmas fair when he was about three. And it's hilarious And so, yes, it's a piece of tat, And it makes me think of my lovely, And, so always have a bit of crap personality and says more about you.