Welcome. I welcome you with all my heart. There are a few new people here. I do not give lectures, I am not a Yet some people call me Robert, the ego killer. I have come to kill your ego. You never needed it anyway. All of these years you've You've had all sorts of problems, you have looked to your ego as God. astray, to make you believe that you came to this Who wants to be happy? Happiness is when you achieve This makes you happy. when it's taken away from you, when you Therefore, the same quality that And this is how you've gone on since -- sometimes happy because you get what you want, turns into what you desire, In other words, you're like a yo-yo. searching for happiness. then it betrays you, a So the question is: have real happiness that is unchanging? uninterrupted happiness, with person, place, or thing? As a matter of fact, the happiness that This is what you really that has absolutely nothing to do with the world, or your body, or other planets, That happiness may be called bliss, total joy. this happiness is to kill your ego. You destroy your ego by by letting go of the past, and living in the eternal now. Look at the second you're living in. Is there something annoying There is no time for this to happen In the second in which you live right now, happening to make you miserable, You're living in the immediate second. take that second and expand it, This would mean that you would be But most of you begin to think about the past. You think about your past experiences, you bring Why do you do this? You've been hypnotized. that you are a body, living in a world, going through life, working in a job, can't wait for the weekend or you can go see a movie. This is the kind of life most of us live. What if I told you there was another life? a life of such bliss, Yet what do you have to do to achieve this? You kill the ego by stopping the thoughts. Stop thinking forever. you will see that your true Your real Self, which is consciousness, just is. It is not this or that. There's no interpretation for this. and your life. It is the It is the background of all of your ideas, your emotions, It is like a chalkboard. and you get involved in the images. When you get tired of them, you You draw new images. The chalkboard remains the same. there is something within you that never changes, This is your true nature, It is called the ultimate reality. It is called by many names. This is the substratum of your existence. when you begin to forget about when you stop thinking about and its affairs, which is the substratum I'm talking about, It begins to make itself known, What you believed was important-- begins to take a backseat, the true Self, prevails. begin to drop your thoughts, your preconceived ideas, All of these things must go if you the uninterrupted, happy, What are you willing to do about it? going on if you wish to experience You cannot continue the life you've been living. Everything that you have picked up since you were You must begin to understand that it is the world, and your body. a conglomeration of thoughts, This is what we call the mind. us forget our real nature. Yet you ask me, can you exist without a mind? Where were you before you were born? You had Now you've picked up the body you have, the mind, nor the body, and you live having unnatural desires, thinking you have to Really, there's nothing to do, nothing happiness. It's not finding something new to add you've been holding onto, becoming Total emptiness, becoming a no one, a nobody, a your conceptual thinking, to dissolve. Letting onto-- your desires, your emotions. worrying about the future. Being your is God, allowing that to take place. trying to change the world or anyone else, not going deep within yourself, diving deep within The deeper you dive, the more the ego, the body, the mind are one. amusing thing of this whole teaching, for to that space, where the mind seems to be realizing you never had a mind to begin with. There never was an ego or a mind, yet day after day, week after week, trying Why do you do this? Who knows? Why do you do anything that you do? order for you to become self-realized. You begin first get out of bed, you first open your eyes. &quot;Who am I?&quot; What you're really saying Where did the &quot;I&quot; come from? When you're the &quot;I&quot; that says, &quot;I got out of bed, I slept is the &quot;I&quot; I'm referring to. &quot;Where did this 'I' come from? If I were my body, really my But yet, when I was a little baby, then to a big person, here I am now, Therefore, how can I be real? &quot;real&quot; in the dictionary, something that never changes, So I cannot be my body. Again, I cannot be the mind that thinks. bringing me different thoughts: fear thoughts, happy thoughts. So I cannot be my mind. Well, the world is the same changing, changing constantly, so I cannot be the world. Do not answer that question, just ask it. things take care of themselves. remember to ask the question over and over &quot;Who am I?&quot; &quot;No, not this. All kinds of answers will come to you. &quot;You are a man, you are a woman, you are retired, And always catch yourself and say, for it is not permanent. As you keep inquiring this way, As you keep doing this day after day after day, You start to feel happiness You start to feel peace. man's inhumanity to man, but you begin to feel peace. For the inquiry that you are doing is little by little by little. You have to keep doing this As the thoughts come to you, thoughts, you ask yourself: You inquire, I am. Do not try to analyze this, and it is your mind we are trying to destroy. your mind to become free. becoming a policeman to catch the thief. because he is the thief himself. he will never catch the thief. that has been giving you all these problems you throughout your existence, For the mind does not wish to be destroyed. to keep itself from being destroyed. Do not react to them. Merely observe them, smile, &quot;To whom do these thoughts come? Then who am I? for the 'I' is responsible for everything?&quot; This &quot;I&quot; is an idea. If it really existed, But because it doesn't exist, it will go away, it will disappear, Do not worry or be concerned how long this takes, Just do it. many years to be where you are now. Live in the moment. It's like the story I tell once in a while. There was a monk who was and he apparently had been for his hair had grown out into the ground, He was sitting there meditating. presence of a great Sage coming by. He opened one eye and looked, &quot;Holy Father, where are you going?&quot; The Sage said, The monk replied, when you see God, would you please ask Him for me before I become absolutely free, The Sage said, He walked down the road, and there also sitting in meditation. He apparently His hair had grown into the He felt the presence of the Sage also. &quot;Holy Father, where are you going?&quot; The Sage said, &quot;Will you please intervene for me and ask God how much longer I have to sit like The Sage replied, Six months pass. was sitting in meditation as usual. He opened his eyes and smiled, and he said, &quot;Yes, my son.&quot; &quot;Did you ask Him for me how much before I become free and liberated?&quot; &quot;Yes, I did.&quot; The monk became excited. The Sage pointed to a tree. &quot;You see the leaves on that tree? God told me that you have as there are leaves on this tree The monk became upset. He became hysterical. &quot;What? I've been meditating and now you tell me this? To heck with And he brushed himself off and left for town. The Sage came to the second monk. presence, opened his eyes, and asked him, &quot;Holy Sir, did you ask God how The Sage told him the same thing. &quot;Yes,&quot; he said, &quot;Do you see You have to reincarnate as many times But this monk reacted quite differently. He said, And the Sage said to him, The meaning of this story is: Do not look at time. Do not look at space. Do not wonder about how many times you whether you're going to be or go to a different planet. Your job is to dive deeply into Why do you forget about For when you discover your Self, You are the world. The Self is all-pervading, Therefore, when you become a a real person, a true being, You will see the Self. You will become a mirror, Consequently, wherever you And what is your Self? The happy being I was referring to. You are that. And this makes this world a We are creating a world of peace This is why in Advaita Vedanta, for we realize we are only If you see problems in this world, something wrong with this world, So change yourself, not other Do what is necessary to become For I fool you not when I say, &quot;You are the absolute reality. You are ultimate oneness, nirvana. 'You Are That.'