The loach and the hammer have succeeded. Let's go over the wall and open the door individually. This is the only way to Longping Huiyi's official residence. We stay here and no matter what happens , we can't let Little Japan pass. Okay, it's not good for everyone to ambush . Who reported the increase in gunshots coming from Captain Long Ping's residence? Reinforcement quickly. Hurry up. We have been exposed. Don't be wary. Hurry and retreat. I have to kill him . The enemy's reinforcements will arrive while we are talking. Do you want to be a prisoner? It can't be cheap. This guy , Big Ya, Long Ping's mansion was attacked. Captain Longping's mansion was attacked. Quick, quick. Captain Longping, evacuate quickly. Chasing my waist, your captain Xue Hua, hurry up and retreat. Attract the enemy to our side to shoot. It's all my fault. Mr. Song, you retreat first , our squad, stay and cover. Don't be too eager to fight and retreat at the same time. We are at the Wulao Summit. Let 's leave the rest of the group to evacuate with me. Let's lure the enemy away and evacuate the kid this way. There is an ambush. Move quickly and shoot to attract the enemy's firepower. Fight with the little devils and fire and kill them. Where is Captain Sun's urgent message? The CCP guerrillas and the Kuomintang Lightning will continue to attack Puzhou City today. Pick me up from the Immortal Cave. Captain Dong Zhaoping, if you have any instructions, I will order you immediately. Pull your people back to Puzhou City. Mr. Song came so quickly. When I heard it was you calling and it was good news, do you think I can come quickly? Tell me. The Japanese troops guarding the Shenxian Cave Arsenal evacuated a group of people early this morning. After returning to Puzhou City, this really provided us with a way to blow up the arsenal. Favorable conditions. Soldiers are valuable and fast . Let's take action now. You see you are more anxious than me now. I want to avenge the shame. Let's go see Guan Feng and the others first. Brother Song, Xue Hua, is so quick to sit down. You are all so so. Why are you so polite? Being disrespectful to an official will sooner or later make you ill. How is your injury? It's nothing. It'll be fine in two days , Guan Feng, and I'll be even finer. You didn't lie to me, right? I'll tell you some good news. Since you beat up Longping Huiyi this morning, part of the Japanese troops stationed in Shenxian Cave have withdrawn and returned to Puzhou. This is a good opportunity for us to take advantage of the opportunity in the city . It seems that I The injury was not in vain. Brother Song, leave the task of blowing up the Japanese arsenal in Shenxian Cave to us. Leave it to you . Leave it to us. And be careful on the road. Take good care of the little loach , right? Bi Xuehua can take care of you, Brother Song. Send it here, Guan Feng. I've already said everything that needs to be said. I have nothing to tell you. Okay, brother Song, don't worry. There is another important thing. I almost forgot something. It has been approved by all . From today on, you are a member of the Communist Party of China. Comrade Guan Feng, please accept your membership and the party will hand it over to you. Let's resolutely complete the first mission. Brothers Guan Feng and the others are leaving. Now it's our turn, follow the plan, Lightning understands, you should pay special attention to the radio, what are you doing, I , I want to see if Captain Long Ping is still alive , bastard , yes, I am a bastard, I am a big bastard, this is still thirty miles away from the Immortal Cave. Let's hide the horses here on the mountain road . Everyone, hurry up and change. Were everyone in Japanese military uniforms and dismounted? The only thing left is Mr. Song. What is the guerrilla army? The guerrilla army. The whole guerrilla habit. Can you have some sense of time ? You may have misunderstood our Mr. Song. He went to build houses for the common people. This must be to let people know. What's holding you back? Your Communist Party is just a trick. Wait, let's go. It 's better to wait. Where did all this nonsense come from? Listen to my order and set off. Is it all right? OK, OK, let's go , go , go, go. Why won't the special commissioner leave? I've changed the battle plan. It's changed for us. If I don't go to Puzhou City, where will I go? It all depends on my mood. Special Dispatch Why are you taking such a big thing as a child's play? Let's attack the Japanese headquarters in Puzhou City. I will report it to the commander. My next target will be more interesting to the commander. Now enter the silent radio station and do n't turn it on again. Hurry up and get ready to fight. Prepare and wait to meet up with Xue Hua and the others. This is an action tour of the Communist Party of China. The strike team and the Kuomintang Lightning Squad suddenly disappeared. The contact with us was also interrupted. What did you say? I'm worried. I'm worried that we were tricked by them again. The captain is Zhaoping. Captain Zhaoping, why are you back? Why are you back? According to the captain. Rat Report Chinese Communist Guerrilla and Kuomintang Lightning Squad We will continue to attack your headquarters. You have fallen into their trick to lure the tiger away from the mountain. Go back quickly . What are you doing with your clothes? What's wrong ? These are costumes, fine clothes and rough clothes. They are all clothes. As long as you can change these clothes, you can get away with it. That's enough. Have you ever seen anyone walking down the street wearing this kind of clothes? You still think it's not enough. It's eye-catching. Then don't wear it. Why are you being unreasonable? How much does it cost per pound? If you want to be a Japanese prisoner , then don't change it . What's wrong with my cross mantra ? What's wrong with me? I didn't hold my nerve. He got angry and ran away. Where did he go? I asked your in-laws to give you the blueprint. Brother Guan Feng is mine. No one can try to snatch him away. Go away , Guan Feng. You are going around and around. You are the donkey. I tell you, you are all angry . Stop teasing me. Whenever big things happen, you can be calm . This is what you do. The demeanor of a general. You know what I'm thinking. No matter what you think, my hexagram has shown it. Although this matter is difficult to handle , it can definitely be done. I hope what your hexagram says is accurate. Don't worry. Why are you arresting us? Let us go quickly. Let us go a few times. Why should we be arrested? Why should we be arrested? Why should we be arrested? Why should we be arrested? Why should we be arrested? Why should we be arrested? Why should we be arrested? If we make any mistakes, let us go. If we argue again, I will skin you and let them go. Hurry up, why are you arresting us for toasting us, not eating, and fine wine? Stop, pass , and let us go slowly. Which team are you from? The European Wu Family Class is dressed like this. Where are we going? To the Liu Mansion to sing in the Liu Mansion. The Liu Mansion. Liu Mansion should leave. How did you get here along the river road ? Which one of them is the special correspondent Bi Xuehua who led the Lightning Team ? Didn't we send them across the river? They must have come back again. What should we do? Get ready . Let's grab it. Boss, you forgot. This is a shortcut. If you go out from the front and turn right, it is two miles closer than the road along the river. I am a frequent visitor to Liu's house. Why didn't I know that there is a concert at his house today? This may be Mr. Liu. On a whim, our Wu family class has an afternoon session today and the tickets are all sold out. The people sent by the Liu family are determined to let us go to his house to sing and sing . Otherwise, boss , please don't let us go. 2 He comes to the door. I also have a promoter who is looking for us, so let's go back quickly. The guests at the afternoon show are making trouble with the host . Yes, when the boss, Mr. Liu, comes to pick a fight with us , you have to bear witness to us. Okay, let's go, let's go. Let's go, they 've passed. Let's go to the front and wait for them. I'll be here soon . Come, Taijun Shohei. Chang Laishun , your conscience is so bad . What 's wrong with me? Why did you arrest the women of our Empire of Japan ? Why didn't I? They just Here you still say no. Isn't that lying with your eyes wide open? Zhaoping Taijun, please listen to my explanation. You listen to my explanation. I don't want to hear what you say anymore. Zhaoping Taijun is ready. Get ready, don't, don't, don't shoot, don't shoot, put down the gun . Captain, what is going on? Chang Laishun led his men to arrest me, the woman of the Japanese Empire, nakedly provoking the authority of my Japanese Empire. Why did he want to arrest me? Woman of the Empire of Japan, have you asked clearly why? I don't want to listen to his nonsense anymore. Zhao Ping, this is your fault. It's my fault. What do you mean to the Empire of Japan? Loyalty is in the wrong place. Invite Commander Chang over. Go quickly . Commander Chang Lai. Captain Longping asked you to come over . Loach, you are deaf. I called you but you didn't hear me. What have you been doing for so long? What are you doing? I love you. What are you doing? Who is provoking you? No one is provoking me . Are your kids full of food? I have something to discuss with you. If you have something to say, please tell me here. Sun Tzu's Art of War says that soldiers are valuable and they are quick. But how can we make our soldiers valuable? Come on, I've been thinking about it for a few days. Have you figured it out? Tell me, it's stupid to snatch away the kid's Japanese horse for our own use . You bastard , Zhaohei, you have failed to live up to my expectations of you. Captain , I am willing to accept all your punishments. I don't. I will punish you, but you have to punish yourself. Ok , Shohei , as a Japanese samurai, it is a very shameful thing to slap yourself in the face. I hope this is your lesson. Teach yourself shame and then be brave enough to complete the great cause entrusted to you by the empire. I have remembered the teachings of the captain. Zhaohei swore on the honor of a samurai. Go ahead. These two Chinese women grabbed two sets of kimonos and sneaked into the city. What on earth are they going to do? Mr. Song, hurry up . Please sit tight. Why did you come back so quickly? Or was it to blow up the Japanese army's weapons and crush the Japanese invaders' conspiracy to cross the Yellow River westward ? So you brought back a lightning team for us. I just have to keep going and never give up until I reach my goal. Please, why didn't I see you last time? We all have division of labor. I didn't go there last time. You were the leader of the city. Those who have no leader are all revolutionary comrades. I admire them very much. People like you admire me for being so bold and careful. I circle around the Japanese and steal the enemy's intelligence as if I have something in my pocket. That's a novel. Those in our profession are all those who deal with death. It's the life of the world, the work of the underworld. I 'm so happy to meet you. I 'm the same. What's your name? My name is Xue Guangfu and you. My name is Brother Xia Hua. Have you thought about it? How are we going to snatch this horse? These military horses are shipped from Japan by little devils . They treat these horses as their darlings when they come, so they will definitely send people to guard them closely. Then we will beat them. We are not without guys. You are capable. If we go head-to-head, the only one who will suffer. Is it us, and the chances of winning are not high enough to outwit you? Have you found the exact location where the Japanese invaders have hidden their weapons? Our insiders have received a secret report. This secret report can be shared with you. Why is it that the noble integrity of you Communists moved me in our Lightning Team? When we were about to be annihilated, it was you who risked your lives to save us. You don't have to talk about these things all the time. After all, we are Chinese from the same origin and race. I don't say it 's okay , but I can't do it in my heart. The reason why I share this secret report with you is to fight side by side with you. This is also what a Chinese should do. Thank you, it's a good way to outwit us. But how do we outwit it? After thinking about it, I still think We have to first find out where the little devil's horses are and how many troops are guarding them, and then we can think of a countermeasure. Let's go into the city now. Tomorrow we will launch an investigation into the Fairy Cave. Once the specific location of the heavy weapons is determined, our guerrillas will I will fight side by side with your Lightning Team and blow it up resolutely. It is a very successful plan. I look forward to the success of our cooperation. Mr. Song, has Guan Feng surrendered to you ? No, no, no, I haven't joined yet. We really don't need to lie to you . First of all, let me declare that Guan Feng and his men and I, Bi Xuehua, have to decide . Isn't this inappropriate? Why is this inappropriate? You and I have to respect their own choices. I am a loving and talented person, so I can't just follow my heart. You can't be as horny as a shaven head. Report to the team leader that it's time for horse walking. I feel a little uncomfortable today. Can you take someone with you ? The devil is walking the horse there. I feel that this is a good opportunity for us to seize the horse. Look, it's right here At that time, the Japs' vigilance was at its most relaxed . But why is it so close to the Japs in the barracks that it's hard to attack ? We have to find a way to lure them out without alerting the Japs Commander in the barracks. You're here just in time. Hurry up and have a good time. Come on, Commander . Commander, I found out what you asked me to ask about. Seriously, tell me now. Grandma, grandma, brother , are you asleep ? I didn't see Guan Feng and the others this time. Long Ping's plan to attack Guanjia Village overnight was cancelled . They must have returned to the village. I can only regret it. It's only a matter of time to meet again. I don't care if it's once or twice. Is this okay? Why can't it be okay ? No, then you can It's too dangerous, as the saying goes If you don't enter the tiger's den, you wo n't win. Brother, as long as we can capture the war horse , it's worth taking the risk. Brother Kuai Kuai, you always cut through the mess with a sharp knife. What's going on today? Why are you still hesitating? Loach, this matter is very important. It's about you again It's your fault that you're not determined enough to be safe . You can't bear to let go of your child. You can't trap a wolf for revenge. To severely attack the Japanese devils, this evil wolf. Even if you let go of me, how can you let go of you? No, no, no, absolutely not, brother, you have this. In a word, I am Xiaoni Loach, I am content in this life. Loach, my home is on the Songhua River in Northeast China. There are forests and coal mines there. Is the treasure I want in your Duan family? God knows, you know, I know . You guys, don't pretend to be dumb. Just hand it over voluntarily, otherwise don't blame me. Kill this Old guy, drag me out and tell me where the baby I want is. Our Duan family doesn't have the baby you want. Drag that child out to me. Pull over and step aside. I said, Commander, what kind of baby is this worth killing? You don't do this Understand, this is a priceless treasure. It's so valuable. Just know it and keep it a secret. Especially in the Japanese Taijun's place, this bitch traitor often comes to Shun to help him. He has become a cancer that harms everyone . We must dig this out. Come here , Lao Jiu, sit down for a while and drink a glass of water . Lao Jiu, Chang Laishun, why do you want to kill people from the Duan family? I heard it's for a treasure, baby, what treasure, golden Buddha, how do you know, Lao Jiu, what do I do? Why do I do this? If you stay here, you will find this It's about honoring the Golden Buddha. It's great, great. The golden Buddha has finally revealed its golden body. It's almost time to go. Let 's go and report to the team leader. It's time for a horse walk . You go, Niyi. We'll be waiting for you here. Be careful. Don't worry. Let's go . Team leader Yu. There is a flower girl chasing us in front of us. Everyone, be prepared and be careful . In order not to alert the enemy , don't shoot until the last resort. Wait for the little loach to lead them into our trap. Let's grab the horse captain again. The flower girl is gone. She can't run far. It must be nearby. Go in and search or leave. Horse 's horse's bastard is a horse. My horse is despicable and derelict in duty. I'm willing to commit seppuku. Do you think your life is that valuable? Your ten lives can't be exchanged for one of my horses. Do you know what Guan Feng did? They took away little Japan. The army and horses are ah, the devils in the city have all bombed their nests. Guan Feng, they are really good to me. Now, I really want to recruit them to join our guerrillas. We can't rush this matter . Everything must be voluntary on their own before it can happen naturally. From now on, we can't live in Guanjia Village. We can't live. Why can't we live? That's because we are now What about those extra war horses ? What's the matter? Why don't we just let them graze outside in the woods ? It 's over. No, this is absolutely not possible. What can't be done? War horses don't feed war horses like ordinary farm horses. It 's human nature. Only people like this and war horses can be inseparable from each other day and night. Only by having feelings can we have feelings . Only on the battlefield can I listen to your words and move forward bravely without fear of strong enemies. Besides, if the Japanese devils lose these war horses, will they let it go? No, they will definitely send heavy troops to search for our Guanjia Village. They will never let go of leaving the war horses outside. It will reveal that the final result is to gain and lose again. So we must find a safe and reliable place to hide us and these war horses. Brother Dafa is right. We must move immediately without further delay. The Lightning Team is scheduled to fight side by side with the CCP guerrillas today. It will first assemble at Qingliang Mountain and then go to Shimenguan Shenxian. Please give instructions for on-the-spot reconnaissance of the cave. Once we determine the specific location of the Japanese aggressors' weaponry, we will immediately launch a surprise attack with all our strength to completely destroy it. Lightning Secretary Sun Yue and Song assemble the team to maneuver towards Qingliang Mountain .