G'day Chris here, and welcome back to Clickspring. a mechanical watch movement. Setting aside for production requirements of making such small parts and complications. Just that such a machine, function at all, is to me, some kind of miracle. are several aspects of the modern watch movement those are the bearing, and hard contact So called because they are Today, they tend to be made from a synthetic from a natural ruby and on occasion even of It so happens that the way these stones interact a mechanical watch to function, both in terms escapement, and also the many bearing holes of a friction, the arrangement usually requires only installation is also fairly straight-forward. that I'm going to focus on in this video. require that its movement be jewelled. But at the jewelling process at a slightly larger technical issues in an uncomplicated way. movement plate or bridge is to form a hole in than the jewel outside diameter, generally simply press the jewel into position. That slight that serves to hold the jewel in place. The hold normal operation of the watch, but if nudged with in the vertical axis as desired by the watchmaker. free movement of a given wheel or pinion assembly. fitting a jewel requires carefully Typically, that job is performed by that use what's known as 'pushers' and to both the jewel and the receiving plate. applies the pressure directly via the micrometer has a similar micrometer idea as a limit stop, lever to apply the closing pressure. This latter better describe as a cutting and then burnishing Now, these are quite expensive tools and they can what I've just mentioned - Be sure to watch explaining their full use case - But they can situation like the dial indicator project, emulated using a tool that's already in the home It provides the rigid upright structure, has and a reasonably controllable fine feed. What watchmakers tools, and, it has way more leverage The holes into which the bearing jewels are millimeter smaller than the jewel. So there's commercial sets, but of course suitably sized project. You might recognise these cutters as D-bit single lip cutter. So-called because Now its worth pointing out that in this case, reamer and smoothing broach all-in-one. With that critical "one hundredth under" dimension. which in this case I've selected to accommodate And I've chosen O1 tool steel for the but most importantly can be heat The cutter starts out with a tapered behind the cylindrical section so that that section can be conveniently You'll have noticed that these commercial as well as a small land between the two, that's profile, carefully preserved to remain as Now this relief could be machined, but I'd like for the land. So a few strokes with a file is With the basic features in place and the critical can now be taken to a red heat with a torch, A synthentic ruby slipstone works well to bring as well as bring up the cutting edge. tool complete, now for the pusher. pusher tools, depending on the circumstances. what's known as a pump pusher, is called for. internal piston under a light spring load, shaped to safely interact with the The jewels I've sourced for the so I'm making a version of pusher that the pushing surface would need to be concave, the top of the jewel and possibly cracking it. emulate the professional tools, where the pointed jewel hole, centering the jewel on the axis of it uprights the jewel as it begins to enter to be underneath the jewel. From there, the The commercial pushers tend to be made of steel, brass is also a reasonable choice. Its also longer than the commercial versions, to make sure It's convenient to contain the spring within so the now drilled interior is The piston is required to be a snug fit to have a suitable stroke to interact and also has a small boss section on the other end of the spring. Again, the piston can OK, so with the fit and stroke confirmed, I've covered the process of making springs in of being able to simply scavenge one from another spring loaded pen. This multi-color ballpoint but its not at all critical and I've specified accommodate a range of springs, so it can Once the spring has been installed, the grub screw can be closed in as The commercial tools move easily under a light position with an immediate, lively response. brass to see how they work. jewelled is drilled undersize by 0.1 millimeter Then with the mill powered off, and being driven by hand, the cutter is You can just see a clean chip curling The hole is then burnished smooth by as it continues to descend, ultimately leaving As is typical in a horological setting, location. A sink helps retain oil in the jewel become an aesthetic feature of the device too, The result is a hole, well sized in both Much like the commercial tools, the jewel fact that the workpiece is free to move or 'float' This allows the pusher to naturally align A light push with the mill spindle, and its done. flush with the base, of this piece of scrap intended to be for the dial indicator project. to adjust the jewel for the end shake With the plate still able to freely move under and the spindle carefully lowered. reasonable control, to a specific depth in In this test I've used only the basic to keep things moving along for the video, but as to the sides of the hole when adjusting becomes essential to prevent distortion of mill-based setup are some basic anvils. one closed, the other open to clear the jewel, under the workpiece by eye, as required. for the dial indicator project, but even it might still be something that's helpful that can benefit from jewel bearings. to a movement is that it immediately lifts and gives an excuse for maybe going a bit This little test piece has been shaped to resemble For the final finish of that bridge, I thought cup of the oil sink with a generous bevel. Also, alongside a gold finish, but I'd also like to see too. So I'm testing out these ideas And this highlights much of what this project is engineering of a dial indicator as a platform various horological procedures &amp; in the main build series of the project.