(gentle music) - [Man 1] I don't think I don't think failure should be an option. - [Man 2] No. Failure has You can't have stunning (whooshing) - [Man 3] I think the without having failure, don't appreciate it nearly as much as those of us that have - [Man 4] The laboratory the failed missions have - [Woman 1] It's interesting people who suddenly go away, who don't want to be or who don't want to We want to bury our losses. - [Man 1] I think that it's I think it's the personal anguish. It's the damage to the reputation. That fear has kept us than we have been. Although we've been very bold. - [Man 5] We hurt ourselves in terms of winners and losers. - [Man 6] You don't know how The output of the is about an eighth of an inch apart. (gentle music) - [Man 7] So we stumbled. and see what we can learn (gentle music) (soft music) (bongos) - The lab's kind of a neat place to work because it really rewards (upbeat music) You have people in the lab that have been working here a few years and they talk about, you know, they ask: &quot;How do you advance?&quot; There's two keys to success at the lab, really only two. Credibility and visibility. Sometimes, easily gotten, certainly easily lost. The lab's nestled in these hills. It's pretty, it's a big place. A lot of walking. (upbeat music) And you get to use these cool badges. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] In the late 1990's NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory was on the verge of a new era of exploring the solar system and beyond. (upbeat jazz music) Just ahead were six new missions, slated for launch in just six months. An unprecedented achievement. There were two new One would test a new propulsion method that sounded right out of While the second mission from a comet and bringing something never before done. A space telescope would search For our own planet, there was a satellite to measure wind speeds across the oceans. And for Mars, there were two new missions. The red planet became a major destination following the discovery of a Martian rock that some believed contained - Something really, really huge, that's going to be taking as we send many missions And usually one of the regarding Mars is, is there life on Mars? I think there is life out there I don't believe that we in the universe. So I definitely think there's (upbeat music) (water pouring) - [Narrator] These new missions were signs of how far director Ed Stone had steered JPL in a new direction. One that emphasized but more numerous missions. - I had come to believe that we had done the major global exploration missions and we really needed to And the question is what was - [Narrator] The new frontier had a name: Faster, better, cheaper. It required embracing and giving work over to them. And agency officials were to be satisfied. The new watch word was: - If we're going to continue our engineering challenge, is to find ways to do that at lower costs. - [Narrator] The changes underway also included staff reductions. Even as missions were going that was hungry for work - We agreed to reduce the by a thousand, over a several year period. Well, when that was The laboratory had never I'd like to hear from you on, What are you worried about? What are you fearing at this time? It was very difficult to explain or justify to the employees. They were concerned about their job and said, &quot;Look, why are you doing this? &quot;You don't have to do this. &quot;My budget hasn't been cut. Why me?&quot; - One of my concerns is--- - It colored everything we tried to do. It was a grinding downsizing. You know, every year you'd a little more, a little more. Back in the back there. - What should I be doing? Where should I be going for Are we going to build a Where to go and what to is a real confusion. Not sure where to go with it. - Yeah, well, you might ask, what does our customer in All right? - [Man 8] From my level I about that. - [Man 9] Faster, better, cheaper. - Really comes back to the the reason there is a JPL, the reason there is a and development center for NASA, is to do things nobody else can do. And so we have to always keep in mind that is really the reason we're here. And if industry can do it, then in fact it's much less appropriate for us to continue to do it. So we have to find a way But we are certainly not this is ours and In fact, we're being to make sure that where we can, we involve the wider community. And that really is a challenge for us. 'Cause that means just at the time we get our arms around something, we're told, &quot;That's &quot;Do something else. Do something new.&quot; (engine roaring) - [Narrator] There would of doing something new than on Mars in 1997. (pop, engine roaring) - [Man 10] The spacecraft Airbags should be inflated. - [Narrator] Pathfinder's airbag touchdown was as unconventional as it was daring. - [Man 11] Roger, confirm signal. (people cheering and clapping) (inspirational music) - [Narrator] And after bouncing a tiny rover had trundled off the Lander. The first wheels ever to roll on Mars. (rover buzzing) - It's my distinct the first Rover on the surface of Mars. (people cheering) - [Narrator] The combination the tiny rover and emoting made for something very different than the typical NASA mission. - Yeah, opening a new era of exploration, as in the framework of the actually starts tonight. (crowd cheering) - [Narrator] Pathfinder of people everywhere. And the mission quickly for faster, better, cheaper's NASA administrator, Dan Goldin. - But now when you get the--- - [Narrator] His ambition with inexpensive, but And should a few of that, he had declared, (crowd chatting indistinctly) - I think all the elements And I think if you have to go to the cutting not be afraid of failure, I think great things will happen. - [Narrator] Goldin's but they could also be contradictory. - It was such an exciting mission. It was the first mission of faster, better, cheaper. I really wanted that to come through. So I thought it would be okay And I have to admit I did that. But I wanted to see where - [Narrator] Risk taking There was a second one. What the consequences would be for not delivering missions - So he would come out and berate us for the old NASA policies and practices. - Our record of overrun is beyond belief. Our record of not delivering And there's a sense of all we have to do is get it working and Hopeless. That will never occur again. And we'll cancel, the sick Darwin is going to reign - And then he would jump at the liberties we were taking. - Remember, question And if you're afraid, And if we at headquarters or anyone forces a contract how do they say it? Just say, no. I'm serious about that. You better not take it, than take it, and then when a problem occurs, say, &quot;I have an excuse.&quot; No excuses are accepted. Don't take shortcuts. And if you have got a problem, say it. And if you overrun more I want you to be sure This is how Darwin works. - This was very tense. And he would come here You know, very, quite literally scream that we were not taking risks, that we were too conservative. And you know, you walk &quot;You know, I wonder if he's right?&quot; A much as you're defensive, (soft music) - [Narrator] Pushing hard on JPL was one part of Dan Goldin's The Mars rock, hinting of For America's astronauts were Any first step would be to And leading that effort champion of Pathfinder's rover. [Faintly]- Make sure Something happened, and This is Allan Hills 84001. And it's had a huge impact. Oops. I don't know why I do that. (all laughing) And this is what they except it's a couple orders of magnitude smaller than anything that's NASA decided, well gee, at what all this means for So there was--- - [Narrator] What NASA wanted of spacecraft to Mars. Orbiters, landers, and even missions to bring All to be done cheaply. - The Mars exploration $150 million a year. That's about the size of So you can, you know, you can or you can go to Mars, whichever you like. - [Narrator] To cope, Shirley reorganized and introduced a radical new After building a spacecraft, teams would hand over the controls to a single centralized that would fly all of the Mars missions. - The biggest problem I had was getting the project because the system at JPL, is set up so that, if your If your project doesn't And program? What program? (dramatic music) - [Narrator] The program also called for using industrial partners more often. Strategy already well underway, as JPL built Pathfinder, in Denver assembled an orbiter. Mars Global Surveyor. - We had a great team And we were going to and we were going to and we were going to do it The team clicked. We had a good plan. I think we didn't deviate from the plan. - [Narrator] The plan for cutting costs included reducing the to go into orbit at Mars, by using a daring technique - And that requires which are on either to essentially drag through to gradually slow the (fast tempo music) - [Narrator] Aerobraking had at Venus, where the atmosphere And it had been done as an experiment at the end of a mission, (engine roaring) But these kinds of in money and time. - You would just, almost with how rapidly the whole process worked. - [Narrator] Mars Global and not only stayed on $6 million. - [Announcer 1] Ten nine eight seven six five four three two one. We have ignition. (crowd cheering) - [Announcer 2] And we have lift off of NASA's Mars Global Surveyor, as America begins its journey (rocket boosters roaring) (rocket boosters separating) (dramatic music) - [Announcer 3] Separation - [Announcer 4] Everything is continuing according to the timeline. - [Announcer 3] Main engine in. Vernier chamber pressures. All good. (rocket engine roaring) (whooshing) (engine roaring) We have started the second stage engine. (pop, then rocket engine roaring) (dramatic music) We have spin rocket ignition. (engine blasting) (whoosh at separation) (dramatic music) (servo motors buzzing) - [Announcer 5] And we have confirmation that we have spacecraft separation. Mars Global Surveyor is the that will journey to Mars - Launch was very good. Spacecraft came off the launch vehicle and we noticed that didn't fold out into its normal position. - Good afternoon, and welcome post-launch press conference. - About that problem, minor problem with one of the solar array panels, what is the worst case scenario? What happens if it doesn't What are you going to try to do to fix it? If you get to Mars with it like Do you lose power? - The fact that we had a at the very beginning of the mission, which was absolutely essential to being able to do the on figuring out what had gone wrong with the solar array deployment and trying to find a way to get it fixed. - [Narrator] Telemetry suggested the array had not latched into place. For the entire cruise the wing would slightly But tests on the ground Once at Mars, it was possible that the pressure of aerobraking would provide the added to lock into place. And in early September 1997 after a journey of 300 days Global Surveyor was bearing down on Mars. For orbit insertion, as with the cruise phase of the mission, assignments were split Lockheed Martin handled and flying of the spacecraft, while JPL provided deep navigation expertise For project manager Glenn Cunningham the events surrounding orbit insertion made for an especially anxious time. Four years before, at just such a moment, his Mars Observer spacecraft (rushing air) - [Announcer 6] All stations Mars Ops. At this time, we should from the burn start. (roaring) (engine blasting) - Can we switch back to the I want to see how far we're going because we're pretty close (tense music) FA1, this is navigation on Mars Ops. - [Man 12] Navigation, go ahead. - Going into the occultation, I've taken a close look and we have a Doppler (engine roaring) At this time the mission is which is a good indication that the burn is proceeding very close to nominal. Of course we won't know of coming out of occultation, but right now it looks like (engine roaring) (roaring stops) - We were watching the telemetry and we had this computer So as the telemetry hit the ground people were calling out, &quot;Main engine on. &quot;Main engine firing.&quot; And there's always that tense moment, when you come out from behind the planet. (tense music) - [Woman 2] We have a signal on The SSI. (people cheering) - [Man 13] For the first time, - [Man 14] He's got all four station. - [Man 12] HC levels - Celebratory peanuts here. All right. - Glenn, MOI peanuts. (people speaking indistinctly) - [Woman 3] Thank you. - [Man 15] Oh, we're dead All other... attitude control, telemetry (people laughing) Control of the space craft right now, [unintelligible] and body rates look good. So, looks like we had an excellent burn. - [Man 16] Go ahead, FLM. - Glenn, we got a healthy and we're go for aerobraking. - Roger, I copy of that. Couldn't be better. Thank (crowd clapping) So all well and good. We thought. (tense music) We did a couple of drag passes. And we noticed that the And one day the panel And we got really worried. (quiet music) - One of the engineers said, &quot;As far as the aerodynamics &quot;it went past the point &quot;where it should have latched into place.&quot; We said, &quot;That's not physically possible &quot;unless the panel is actually broken.&quot; And he said, &quot;That's what the And I said, &quot;I need a new aerodynamicist.&quot; The panel was physically but it was actually out - There was a break in The risk was that it would solar array off at that damaged point. So gosh, this could be, you - [Narrator] To protect the spacecraft it was commanded up out of the atmosphere. The move bought the engineer's time but it also created a new problem. - We knew we were actually very much racing the clock at that point. We did have another gotcha. We realized that if we didn't we would get to a around the planet would leave for more than eight or 10 hours, when the spacecraft had to survive about a one - [Narrator] And if that were to happen, the batteries would and slowly, Global Surveyor - Good morning, and at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft has been an orbit around Mars Several members of the to give you an update on the mission. - We believe that we have in the solar array. This little model of the panel so to speak, between the where the damper arm was caught. (suspenseful music) - [Narrator] The solar panels Rotating the broken wing enough to endure the (suspenseful music) But all of the delays had made that had been painstakingly calculated based on the need of science instruments to see the Martian surface in daylight. - To do the science it was designed to do needed to not only get from the big orbit, initial capture orbit, but it needed to do it in so that the lighting for all the science instruments If the lighting wasn't right, a lot of the science instruments - [Narrator] An entirely had to be created on the fly. Then slowly, the into the Martian atmosphere. The crippled solar panel held. (suspenseful music) In the days that followed Science discoveries. There were faint signs of and images of geological features to out-rival some of the found on Earth. But there was a price to pay Aerobraking was originally It would now consume a year and a half. And that meant added strains at a time when two more They too would require urgent attention. And for every day that passed the breaking point for drew nearer and nearer. (suspenseful music) There are many reasons on the human imagination. Its mysteries beckon in part because of what our planets In the distant past, Mars A place where water of great quantities once flowed on the surface. But where did it go? And why? Some scientists think the might be found in the Martian atmosphere. - All of the geologic evidence from early data from Mars suggested that it was once very wet and therefore apparently warm. Well, the atmosphere role in this story is well, where did the atmosphere go? Why is it so dry? Why is it so cold? How did the climate originally We couldn't explain that early on. And we couldn't understand so radically. How had the evolution of the planet got it to where it is today? By Dave McKittle--- - [Narrator] Dan McCleese to trying to answer these questions. He worked for more than a decade, for the chance to fly a science instrument on the Mars Observer mission. The spacecraft that was lost just before reaching Mars in 1993. - What those tell us--- I knew my career and those of who, some of whom I had hired to begin work at JPL on that experiment, that we were all now looking It was going to be every man for himself trying to get your investigation flown. And now the question was who was going to be in the lifeboat when it pushed off from the wreck? - [Narrator] McCleese had before his life boat arrived. Mars Climate Orbiter was billed as the first interplanetary McCleese's science instrument, and carbon dioxide, was the main payload. It was heavy, required substantial power, and was highly sensitive to heat radiating from the spacecraft. All of these factors by engineers designing the spacecraft. The result bore no resemblance Climate Orbiter's shape was asymmetrical, having only a single solar panel, that was to be flown It was only one of two missions that were to be launched in 1998, the reason why they are sometimes jointly to referred to as Mars 98. Mars Polar Lander was a Viking missions that used rockets to reach the Martian surface. (rocket blasting) The budgets for the two Viking missions had been more than a billion dollars. And even more astonishing was that JPL and industrial had signed up to build and for the price of Mars Global Surveyor. It's commonly believed that this two-for-the-cost-of-one But the agency's then of space science, Wes The original proposal he says - I was facing a decision about what to do for that flight opportunity. Are we going to do another orbiter? Are we going to do a lander? The science community was at Some wanted an orbiter, And at the time I thought, &quot;Well, I've only got money &quot;of the cost of Mars Global Surveyor.&quot; So while worried about what Lockheed Martin came in &quot;I think we can do a lander &quot;if we take advantage of certain ways &quot;in which we build our spacecraft &quot;you know, so we're not building &quot;and one over here. &quot;If we could do some &quot;so that we could keep Sold. - [Narrator] Donna Shirley's reaction was not nearly as knowing that if it didn't, - Here's, you can see how We are beginning to to turn out production line spacecraft on this kind of timetable, especially for tough jobs - [Narrator] Two missions was taking faster, better, giving pause to even gung-ho - I remember people bragging early on that, said, &quot;Yeah, we're going to do two &quot;for the price of one.&quot; And I thought, &quot;Good God, (soft music) - [Narrator] John McNamee of the two missions, though he had to be talked McNamee started out his but he went back to college and earned a PhD in aerospace engineering. Early on at JPL he was He had been in charge of and was known for his no-nonsense style and being a tough negotiator. - You can't afford to spend in rooms for hours and trying to figure out what to do. You take as much data as you have. You make a decision And you only revisit a the preponderance of the evidence says you really screwed up. We certainly made someone--- - [Narrator] To have any hopes of success McNamee was convinced he would and meaner team than - John McNamee took it to In the sense that he's, you know, the JPL fingerprints on Mars This was a, we're going to the way they want to do it. And that itself was a because like, well, what do you mean? We're going to not understand And it's still got a JPL mission, why don't we have people And John was very adamant about the fact that he didn't want to do that. He couldn't afford that, that the only way to accomplish this was to let Lockheed do it (people speaking indistinctly) - [Narrator] This hands off approach was not welcomed by a Most were accustomed to of contractors as part to assure mission success. This cultural divide continued to widen and deepen. - I don't know whether we were consciously doing it at that time but we really were creating And there were two cultures. I can remember walking in building 230, I think it was. It was after hours and most and I was looking for a paper clip or a piece of paper or pencil. And I knocked on one door and somebody behind the door says, &quot;Yes.&quot; And I said, &quot;I need a And the voice said, &quot;Are you And then they opened the door. So, I mean, there were, there was a group of people that this divergence was taking place. - [Narrator] No one understood both sides of JPL's cultural divide He had been in charge of flagship missions like Voyager, Galileo, and Cassini. But he was now encouraging to faster, better, cheaper. He was also serving on review boards to monitor the progress Casani saw serious engineering but no showstoppers. - I honestly can't say that about the mission, but what I didn't have a perspective of during that period of time is just how thin we were on the project. Most of the work was being And so, you know, let's say you're on a review board and you sit in the review room. You don't see what is (suspenseful music) - [Narrator] As for make that concept was not proving as NASA began adding on unanticipated, and from the project's For the orbiter, there was But for the lander, the requirements creep became a source of ongoing disagreements. (legs snapping into place) First, a descent imager was added. Then came pressure to from Russia. The gesture meant to encourage cooperation with a former Cold War foe. That was followed by inside the Russian instrument, a microphone to listen The biggest battle was a pair of basketball sized penetrators that NASA viewed as a new They were to be released just into the Martian atmosphere. Then they would free fall hitting the ground with a If still in one piece, the probes would search and serve as precursors to one day scattering other miniature This experiment, named Deep Space Two, was also assigned to JPL. Chosen to lead the effort was Sarah Gavit. - And electrical aspects of our design. There are a lot of challenges that will survive a crash landing. We started off very early on the mission with a very aggressive test program. (exploding) To truly have tested it, we probably would have that you fired in, under a variety of environmental conditions. We didn't have the luxury of doing that. And so we did have to take some shortcuts in the testing area. - [Narrator] Deep Space demanded making decisions about risks that no ordinary mission And when this experiment was expectations for success were raised, too. - Sean McNamee did not want on his space craft. And I don't blame him. We were just going to and a little bit more complicated. - [Narrator] McNamee was or most of the other add And a year from launch he saw an even greater threat looming. This one from inside JPL. The centralized team that were still busy finishing &quot;Where,&quot; McNamee asked, &quot;was a detailed schedule &quot;When would staff have the &quot;the two spacecraft?&quot; As for the suggestion of delaying training until time of launch, was a fatally flawed idea. (soft music) - And it was just this continual, what I call the death of a thousand cuts. And I just realized that really bad things were gonna happen and I The program was out of control. No one would listen. I was so concerned about I just couldn't stand it. And people were killing themselves and they were absolutely trying to make this work. And so the day I made was pretty much the which is very sad because you But we had a great retirement (crowd clapping) (camera clicking) - [Narrator] Besides of a job well done, featured humorous skits in keeping with the JPL Then as part of letting go Shirley began passing away - We can do that. Is Dan Now, Dan asked me for this and nobody wants to (crowd laughing) - [Narrator] Shirley's final gift was a not so subtle dig still were not heeding her warnings. (crowd laughing) - It's a copy of the book that's only published on the internet. It's called &quot;Managing Creativity&quot;, and I modified the title to &quot;Managing Creativity, A Building, Producing Innovative Products&quot; or, &quot;A Prophet Is Without (crowd laughing and clapping) (suspenseful music) (men speaking indistinctly) - [Narrator] Three months later, Mars Climate Orbiter was with Mars Polar Lander A list of problems continued Some software had to be without being put through It was a risk the project as the alternative was to - [Man 17] John, ready to go? - [Man 18] Please, this way. Good to go. See Chief, we've got some good weather. - [Narrator] A review also delivered the verdict were ready to fly. The JPL-Lockheed team had done They had built two spacecraft and delivered them on time and on budget. - For me personally, 15 years ago I was hammering nails on a roof in Texas. So I am very excited to be as opposed to that. - Greg Komodi, Aviation Week. Kind of a broader question Are you guys going to maybe go back and do an operational scrub of any sort beyond what you would anyway? - I do not think spending necessarily guarantees success. And we have examples of that. And I think the thing to remember is that the complex sometimes does come back and And I said this before, the surprising thing is not the surprising thing is It's a very difficult business. - [Announcer 7] RTO report. - [Female Announcer] (rocket boosters blasting) - [Man 19] And we have lift off of NASA's Mars Climate Orbiter as we continue to explore the (rocket boosters blasting) - [Woman 4] We have ignition. We have lift off of the Delta Two rocket carrying Mars Polar Lander NASA's first visit to the (rocket engine roaring) - [Man 20] View from the second stage of the Boeing Delta two vehicle. (people speaking indistinctly) - Here's the rain cloud, (rocket engine roaring) - [Man 21] Pass through mach (rocket engine roaring) Main engine, both verniers - [Man 22] We expect to see these boosters burn out in jettison. We have jettison of the solids. (rocket engine roaring) Again, a beautiful view of the Delta vehicle. (rocket engine roaring) And we have main engine cutoff. - [Man 23] Main engine is cutoff. - [Man 24] The progress of launch everything continues to (dramatic music) No issues or concerns are (dramatic music) (soft music) - [Narrator] Four months after the launch of the two Mars 98 missions an elated Ed Stone State of the Lab Address. - Well, it's hard for me to than the era we're in right now. Six launches in six months. Never before in the laboratory's history. It is great. It's great. Well, not only are these - [Narrator] For nearly a decade, Stone had worked tirelessly to transform the nature and to fundamentally alter how And now all of that effort - I've been working at at least, since 1972, And I can't remember a time that's more exciting than this one. I really, literally cannot. Even though the Voyager they were spikes. What we have now is a continuum. - [Narrator] Not just two one of those six missions, a space telescope built by a An event set in motion when The two new missions on their way to Mars were struggling too. Both were experiencing problems related to sunlight conditions... the result of design flaws. The solutions required in different orientations - Oh my gosh. It just seemed like there was, it was another one of those periods where one thing after another went wrong. I mean, every day, we struggled. We ended up essentially putting the MCO in a semi-comatose state so we could get through the and get it going okay. And then we said, &quot;Okay, &quot;and we'll deal with the Mars Polar Lander had its own So we coped with that. The spring and summer of 1999 was like the most intense And I later realized that - [Narrator] The journey to a planet is usually considered the But that was not the case due to its shape. (soft music) With the solar panels swung to one side radiation pressure from the sun was causing the spacecraft - It was actually feeling the solar wind the solar radiation pressure. And that's kind of blowing it off course, a little bit like a and you have to know that. But of course, there's You have to guess what the and how much area is shadowed and exactly what's going on there. - [Narrator] To correct small gyroscopes called (wheels buzzing) But eventually they Then yet another force, were used to de-saturate or - And you have to know how and how much force was applied. And a mistake in any of you could be kilometers off course because those things build and months on the way to Mars. And you can actually if you don't know - [Narrator] Climate Orbiter's thrusters had to be fired every 17 hours. An unanticipated chore on a team that had been stripped Only one full time navigator And during the first four months of crews navigation data from the because of a software error. When that problem was fixed something seemed slightly - We knew there were some with the navigation products. It was in that gray area between, it wasn't bad to the point about this now or the mission's over. It wasn't just fine, when there are one problem after another I found at my own role you really have to judiciously prioritize. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] The navigator expressed their puzzlement and even face to face meetings. But a formal report was never submitted. And the source of the small discrepancies was never tracked down. - I think we failed to properly record it as an incident surprise anomaly. That was probably the devastating step because it was a, it was an issue that was recognized. I remembered talking about that the trajectory wasn't And I just don't know why we never entered it into - [Narrator] Over time, came to be viewed as something For while the course can rightly be called rocket science, it is surprisingly not an exact science. - And of course, you know, There's really no way except tracking with the big But that's only in the So it's only one component that the spacecraft is in. And so by measuring only one component you sort of have to unfold orbital mechanics and understanding what the spacecraft is And it turns out that's a (suspenseful music) - So in a sense you're where this thing is in And all you can do is But it could be right or it could be right You don't know that this you only can do by building up over time. Well it was here, and and you begin to eventually And, but that takes months. The thing that helps you is that it's not just randomly moving. It's in orbit around the sun. And so it has to be moving except for the times in which something else is pushing on it. And the something else are these little thrusters And those are things which - [Narrator] Two months rose another problem. During a trajectory course maneuver the spacecraft's solar A problem that if not fixed - So it was a, you We've got to fix this That was going on at the same time the problem that eventually killed us was manifesting itself. - [Narrator] The solar but the solution took the leaving undone other scheduled work. By now, the navigators were deeply worried as predictions still weren't converging. To address their concerns was raised to over 200 kilometers. (suspenseful music) But after the maneuver was performed new plot showed the aim lower than expected. (suspenseful music) With tensions running high the navigation team leader to push the spacecraft even higher. - People were used to the navigators, basically saying, if where it was super precisely, you know, it was like, &quot;Well, they always have so much margin. &quot;Those guys are, you know, And when they were trying to communicate &quot;No, really, we really don't understand &quot;where this trajectory is going. &quot;We're seeing things in the data &quot;that don't make sense to us.&quot; The message that was received than the message that they This was another one of how close to the edge we were - [Narrator] Given the concerns a small subset of a review to consider an emergency maneuver. No navigator was invited. The outcome was to press on as planned. While the navigation they still showed the spacecraft having twice the altitude Last minute changes, the reasoning went, might introduce new dangers. Among those on the phone - Oddly, a lot of the senior leadership of the development project both had navigation backgrounds. And so, or all had navigation backgrounds. And I think that created this model that this is something And that there was not, you know, clearly proper paranoia that we believe in very I think that because of that comfort with the underlying technical problem coming from the management there was just not enough paranoia. And instead of if anything, which is you guys are too it'll be okay because it's always okay. (tense music) - [Narrator] Two weeks before the decision not to conduct an emergency maneuver Climate Orbiter saw this image of Mars. It would be the first and only one the spacecraft would ever see. - [Man 25] Good morning, in Mission Control of the in Pasadena, California. JPL is an operating division - [Narrator] JPL's live TV coverage of the orbit insertion of Climate Orbiter began in the early hours Given the hour, there were in the small mission support area for what many believed - [Man 26] Team resides and is watching all the telemetry come on in. At the Lockheed Martin center, they do the actual commanding. - [Woman 5] TelePrompter is go. - [Man 27] I just want to let you know the stations look like they're in lock at the appropriate level, - [Narrator] In charge of the JPL crew was Flight Operations John McNamee was there too. He was now working on a different mission, but he had continued to be in close touch and his opinion still mattered. Looking on from just outside He had recently retired, but Moving into Cunningham's role with responsibility for flight operations for all of the Mars - [Woman 6] All systems as we head into MOI. - The altitude was still, was still hanging around the And so everyone was like &quot;Yeah, it's going to be lower There was one last update of the altitude. And that was at about probably where the data all the was used to calculate a new And it dropped to 110 kilometers, But I think, you know, we the survival limit of the spacecraft. (rocket engine roaring) - Systems, FLM. - [Man 28] Hey, can you ask telecom to forward a predicted AGC level once we are in the burn attitude? - [Woman 7] Will do. Standby. (engine blasting) - [Woman 8] All stations, This is APO systems. This is time for the commanding - Hey. Yes. - [Woman 9] Then again with occultation start at 9:05:41. That would be MOI--- - You could relate almost exactly the time at which we lost lock on the signal as the spacecraft went behind Mars and what altitude the closest - Okay, station 43 reports that they dropped The last signal seen in - [Man 29] Roger that. Thank you. - We got LOS unusually early and I looked to go mark of where it occurred to would be and it was almost off the page. (engine roaring) So at that point I remember thinking &quot;Uh oh, we really got a problem here.&quot; (men speaking indistinctly) - [Man 30] Yes, sir. Could - [Man 31] Roger. - [Narrator] The loss of signal had occurred 39 seconds And that was not good news. - See what you guys can do. Okay. Thanks Steve. - So then we had about, I We had to wait out the burn itself and then, you know, look to reacquire. - [Woman 10] Attitude. This is systems. - [Woman 11] Systems attitude. - [Woman 10] Copy, thank you. - [Journalist 1] Joining This is a big deal for you here. You've got one of the on board the spacecraft. Yeah, this is very exciting. - Yeah, that's right. I was on a microphone and I was going through Looking at the clock, and listening to what the was happening on the spacecraft. - [Woman 12] We're standing Scheduled to be at 9:26:56. - Well, we don't even know what a typical Martian year is like from And as I was talking through, near the moment we would it was clear that (suspenseful music) I didn't know what to say on live TV so I just walked away from the microphone. I walked into the room where from the spacecraft &quot;It looks like we're going in close. &quot;Looks like we're closer And I'm saying, &quot;There's an atmosphere. &quot;This is not the moon. We - [Man 32] Okay, waiting Okay. Let's listen and see if we get AOS. - And everybody's going &quot;Oh, if we just can get &quot;we'll see if we come out the other side.&quot; And I just couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe that such a possibility. (suspenseful music) I knew it was over. Twice unlucky? What? This is not possible. - And we didn't reacquire. I mean, I remember talking the person that talks he was talking to the &quot;You know, I'm not, are &quot;any sign of the carrier weight?&quot; And it wasn't happening. And that's something. All right, we're going to have to get a, you know, off script. - I think there are one It may take a while to and we'll get a signal out of it. - So I remember a voice &quot;Follow your plans.&quot; The emotional part of it became tolerable by having something to do and getting to it. - Either way, there are things it will do other than just sit there. - Okay. - And I'm producing this And no one's talking on That's gone silent. And people are starting to and communicate. It's like, what's going on here? Time comes that we're supposed There's no signal. So five minutes goes - [Man 32] This is Mars Climate Now about 14 minutes past the point where we would have from Mars Climate Orbiter as it reappeared from behind Mars. - David Seidel, who was gets off mic and calls me and says &quot;I don't know what's going on. &quot;What is it that I'm supposed to say?&quot; Well, I didn't know what was going on. So I jumped up and I over to the building they And as I was running, I was saying, &quot;I don't have a contingency plan for this. &quot;I don't know what it is I'm going to do &quot;when I get up there, &quot;but I've got to have a decision made &quot;by the time I get off that elevator.&quot; - [Man 33] Okay. Yeah, I don't think we'll be, we'll probably not do the live shots. - [Blaine] Now hold on. Hold on on that. One thing at a time. Okay? Hold on. Okay. We'll get Richard from here. We need to shoot him with a camera. I had to grab Richard Cook out and have him go on live to tell whatever it is that we did know. We needed to tell that right This is Mars Climate Orbiter, mission control at the Joining us now is Richard Cook, who's the Mars Surveyor Can you give us a quick - What we're working on the spacecraft has a number of that it goes through when it has a fault. We believe that we are in in all likelihood in the So we're going to be monitoring to see what happens. I think we will, obviously we will, as soon we'll let everybody know. But at this point we're still, still very confident that and we need to, and we're going to see this in, like I said, the next few hours. It was about that same time and said, &quot;Now we've &quot;until the point at which it When they processed that data it dropped to 60 kilometers, right? Which is obviously below where And so that's really when it hit the, you know, fan so to speak and where everybody began to worry that we had lost the mission. - We have a briefing this on the status of Mars Climate Orbiter. I guess we'll take--- - [Narrator] A few hours what had been planned as a was instead the beginning of - [Robin] Robin Soriano, Could you tell us who is responsible for sending the navigation - [Journalist 2] You must have a list of potential suspects already. - [Journalist 3] This isn't a first of the smaller, faster, that you've had problems with. - [Journalist 4] Covered And I realized you don't until you get close to the planet. But I can't recall an - It was just a terrible, And no matter what you say you're going to cause ripples, right? I mean, the team is struggling And so any statement about what's, you know, what happened other you get into that feeling of And it was just turned into which is unfortunate obviously. - And just to follow up on that last bit I wonder if you could just tell us literally over the next eight what are you folks doing? - Right now that we have a both here and at Lockheed Martin in Denver we're going to essentially begin to dive into this navigation Probably as soon as we (soft music) - [Narrator] One month before the loss of Mars Climate Orbiter a JPL-built spacecraft called Cassini had skimmed closely past the bound for Saturn. Cassini was the most expensive and advanced planetary The quintessential Battlestar Galactica. - I hate that word: Battlestar Galactica but I understand where it came from. - [Narrator] Tom Gavin who considered Cassini as proudest achievements. In the months preceding he had been asked to look under the hood of some of the other faster, What he saw, he didn't like. - Well, nearest I could tell had been thrown out. That there were no rules. The rules were, there are no rules. I think there's a lot in But it isn't it isn't being undisciplined. But understand what risk If you don't understand then you're uncontrolled. I mean the MCO thing There was no excuse. I figured this was an easy event. And about three o'clock in the &quot;You better come in.&quot; And I walked in and I ran And McNamee, I remember McNamee said, &quot;We just took a perfectly &quot;and ran it into Mars.&quot; And I was shocked. How did this happen? We know how to do this. (soft music) - [Narrator] The cause had to be found and quickly. Gavin was given that job. He assembled a group of experts that included the former head Frank Jordan. - I had never dreamed that to a navigation problem. It totally decimated me. And Gavin said, &quot;Well, you're the guy &quot;that's got to find out what happened.&quot; - [Narrator] That was By Sunday night, Jordan when he compared two columns of numbers. The first column from Lockheed Martin, showed the amount of force exerted by the spacecraft's thrusters. The second column was from those numbers. - And I looked at these and it hit me: you're all off by about the same ratio. And I thought, there's something systematic. Why should that be? And so I computed the ratio and it was that the number of JPL was four and a half times larger. I said, &quot;Oh my God.&quot; - [Narrator] The 4.5 number was precisely the ratio difference between the force of thrust and metric units. For the entire journey, the number supplied to had been in metric units Unknown to them, each time the effect had been to push four and a half times more The cumulative effect (dramatic music) From morning newspapers JPL and NASA were ridiculed. For the metric confusion mistake - There's a little bit because a little bit of looking at other people's &quot;Well there, but for &quot;and look at those smart guys, &quot;even they're dummies.&quot; When it's laid bare, and it comes out to something as simple as one one team using the English system and not knowing that there's a that everybody gets 'cause we've all made mistakes like that. This is just one of those epic mistakes. - It was a difficult you know, everyone looks the final cause of what happened. And that was, you know, the units error in this thrusting for the But of course, you know, that's - [Narrator] Mike Watkins of all of the JPL before the loss of Climate Orbiter. He too was swept into the media storm that broke over the measurement mistake. - The harder thing to talk about is, you know, what led to the design, what led to the lack of communication and what led to the lack of staffing, that didn't uncover that problem and work that problem to a solution. And I think the disappointing part was, of course you You know, you can't tell that story in the Tonight Show monologue. I personally see the as a failure of communication. A failure to communicate with the more frequent desaturations would affect navigation. A failure of the navigation team to have enough people to &quot;Hey, we see something funny. And also a communication failure between our operations And I think that lack is really the thing we learned - Good afternoon. Welcome The subject of today's of the board investigating the failure of NASA's Mars Climate Orbiter mission and actions underway at NASA in response. - Let me say right at the start that we clearly made a serious error. Mars Climate Orbiter was and our checks and balances - And suddenly that NASA all that time, from Pathfinder - Our report seems to list poor training, poor communications, cockiness, and a whole bunch of - So I know no one person is responsible but is there someone who who should be reassigned or fired? - [Miles] There was It was a feeding frenzy. The underlying tension somebody described it to me as near panic at Jet Propulsion Laboratory These were people who really really understood what had deep sources that were saying, &quot;This is not good. Pick two. &quot;Faster, better, cheaper. Pick two.&quot; And we knew it. We knew - None of us want another mistake to go unchecked and unfound. One of the most difficult was the press conference And because such press conferences tend to be focused on fixing the blame. And of course, JPL was for the mission. So in that sense, the But on the way back to the laboratory from that press conference I realized the most important rather than fixing the blame, so that in fact, we could And so on the way home, which was in fact focused on the way ahead rather than on fixing the blame. Without a question, I've experienced in all my years at JPL. It was hard because of an old truth. The higher the expectation, the greater the impact of failure. The future will depend on from the loss of Mars Climate Orbiter. Can we learn from our failures When we fail, do we learn or do we learn to accept Do we learn that the pain we experienced in losing a mission is so great that we avoid difficult challenges? Or do we learn to accept the challenges, knowing that either great satisfaction or occasional disappointment awaits? My choices are to embrace that can be ours. But just as our past neither will the future. In the future, success will be defined not only by what we do, but how we do it. And how we do it starts today. (soft music) - And then it became very apparent that we had to do everything we could to try and save the Polar Lander because we had just lost the easy one. That was the easy one. And, and then Lander was coming. - [Man 33] This team and the spacecraft, the spacecraft design has been under a great deal of scrutiny. The words we're using now, is they've turned over all the rocks and they're now raking the gravel. - [Sarah] We have never been to the south pole of Mars before, and we're not exactly sure what we're going to be going into. - [Man 34] This is one of that you can envision Requires a very large set of Technically initiated and of the heat shield. (servos operating) Descent engines have to to slow yourself down and (suspenseful music) (servos operating) - [Narrator] After the cause was found, Tom Gavin and for flaws that might They had only two months to of a spacecraft that had been and was now millions This frantic scrutiny uncovered a handful of potential problems that were addressed. There was one issue that had no solution. As a cost saving measure and landing sequence there would be no If the mission was lost there would be no way of and little or nothing to This was another faster, from standard practices. A point that the mission clearly made during reviews at NASA and JPL. - Once you begin EDL, there's no RF link. It's the way it is. Nothing The laboratory did not understand what was going on in that project. And it operated in a very isolated mode. That was very unhealthy. (soft music) - [Narrator] No one had greater hopes for the success of Mars Polar Lander than its young Science Principal Paige's passion for the red planet reached back to college days at Caltech. A time when he worked - In those days, Viking was old news. The data were acquired And I remember I used to and you know, one sort of &quot;Oh, Dave, you're never &quot;working on Mars. &quot;You know, it's just And you know, &quot;Just don't do that. &quot;That's completely boring.&quot; - [Narrator] But Paige persisted. He became especially interested A fascination born perhaps as a member of Admiral Richard to the Antarctic in 1934. - You could always argue of the son following the father or at least trying to follow exploring the poles of another planet. So there could be a but it certainly wasn't, Let's put it that way. It searches for water under the surface. The goal of the mission It won't be considered We have good reason to believe that there is water below the surface. The question is how deep and in what form and how abundant it might be. Water--- - [Narrator] Like the had worked in a feverish only to have the pace after the loss of Climate Orbiter. (soft music) - We had this even which was to get the Lander together. We had, you know, a camera we would dig trenches. We would look inside layered terrains. And the fact that this orbiter didn't work all of a sudden meant that our plans for how we were going to operate the Lander on the surface of Mars in just a couple of months, Everybody was under incredible stress. - [Narrator] And the Lander not knowing precisely 20 year old Viking images but scientists had been awaiting new and far more detailed images - In those days when you looked at the south polar layered you saw this beautiful, smooth area that looked like, oh my gosh, you know, just, whatever, baby skin. You know, there's no, there's no hazards here whatsoever. - [Narrator] But that by Global Surveyor's images. Although this topographic was intentionally exaggerated to highlight height differences, it was still a sobering jolt (dramatic music) - [Man 35] We are an from arriving on the surface (men speaking indistinctly) The soft landing Mars Polar Lander. And two experimental [inaudible]. - [Man 36] Fault Protection We have a good spacecraft. We are ready for entry. - Spacecraft engineerimg - [Man 37] Yes, I'd like to device has fired to pressurize for [Unintelligible]. - [Man 38] Copy. (suspenseful music) - F1 copy, spacecraft go for entry. - You've been sitting in the room here for the last hour or so. What's your view from the inside? - Cautious confidence. We think we've done everything we can do. It's out of the engineers' And every indication is performing exactly as intended. Everything's nice and the entry, descent and in just a few short minutes. (suspenseful music) (men speaking indistinctly) - You guys have to eat a lot of peanuts. (men laughing) - [Man 39] Engineer, attitude of the absolute slew with - [Man 40] Copy that - [Man 41] F1 copy. Autopilot - [David] This is a Doppler plot. What we're seeing as the is the increase in the as it approaches Mars. The closer it gets to Mars the more significant on the spacecraft and We're going to lose as the spacecraft turns away from earth. - [Man 42] And all stations We have all stations at 1463 and 15 LCLS. (suspenseful music) - [Man 43] FLM spacecraft engineer. - [Man 44] ZFM. - [Man 43] Happy landing, Sam. - [Man 44] Copy that lad. (men speaking indistinctly) - This is a view of the landing site. The red ellipse is a target area. And in the center of that ellipse is where we're headed today. They showed me a picture of and it reminded me of that somehow the Lander had a little bit compared to And that it was not but it seemed like it was awfully close to this cliff feature here. And I said, &quot;Oh God, you know You know, somebody said some about, you know, and all this kind of stuff. And I said, &quot;Okay, you know, whatever.&quot; But I think that was the real because it really hit home from the earth. You're just completely on your own. Like the concept of like true That we were really, really out there. (camera clicking) - [Man 45] At this time, the Lander should be commanding with the guidance system Power to send is only about During that time, the from approximately 75 meters per second or 160 miles per hour in just over five miles per hour. - [Man 46] Systems, we expect - [Man 47] Copy that. Hey Billy, are we past that mark systems? - [Man 46] Affirmative. - [Man 47] Copy that. - [David] At this point the Lander should be sitting resting safely on the surface for the Again, storing RT data landing engineering telemetry - [Narrator] Just minutes after the time of the scheduled touchdown into the mission support NASA Administrator Dan Goldin. He was followed by JPL Director Ed Stone and Caltech president David Baltimore. And on the telephone from Washington was vice president Al Gore - In this particular you hear stories about animals or cats, you know, that are pregnant in a corner and hide somewhere before they give birth. Right? This was definitely one of can we just get all of and get all of the dignitaries out of here and let us do what we in dignity by yourselves You know, get out of the, get the dad out of the delivery room, go, go to the bar across the street. And once the delivery's done one way or the other we'll (men speaking indistinctly) - We were showing him the and he looked and said, &quot;That's, &quot;are you sure this is a safe spot? You know, all of a sudden, you could see this, you sort of roll over the man's face as he started, you what we were actually going to do here, which was to, you know, come open up these parachutes, put on the thrusters and try to land this three legged Lander, you - [Man 48] All stations [Unintelligible]. We're still looking. [Inaudible] - [Narrator] Half past high noon was the first opportunity but there was only silence. (suspenseful music) (camera clicking) - [Man 49] First AD, we are at 21:23:26. Telemetry looking for... [Inaudible] - Imagine standing next to Dan Goldin. And then Goldin's tied in to Gore, to report the success. And, um... that's bad news. Bad day. (man speaking indistinctly) (men speaking indistinctly) (suspenseful music) - We did not hear. But we had a plan for what would We have a plan of additional communications That playbook, you know, I think it reflects our normal model which is, well, it's a problem, but this thing will, you know, this is what could have because there'll be another opportunity. - What are the possibilities realistically that something catastrophic - I think we have a long way to go before we're going to be of any concern. - Can you think of a single scenario that would account for the with both the probes and the Lander. - Not separating. The And so we played through the playbook, which stretched for days. - And, we will continue to all the way out through sol nine. But to be honest with you, the chances of hearing from them will be greatly decreased It was a very bad time period for those of us who had given so much and invested so much in a mission. You get very attached to the spacecraft. And when you lose one it's like losing a best friend - [Journalist 5] How confident are you that the probe is intact on the surface? - You know, I think that - And it begs the question again whether we're trying to do And that is something from people around here. What do you say? - Frankly, are you not - We haven't exhausted I do think that the is that they either go really well or they really don't go well. There's not really a in We're pretty much reaching the point where we've used up our You can still continue to try to find it but to get yourself in that mindset which you got to accept it, is better, better for everyone than sort of slowly which is what we did. - JFM, go ahead. - [Man 50] JFM, I'm sorry is HKTM at this point. It seemed to have been a - Copy that Mark. Thanks for that. Thanks for hanging in there with us. (soft music) - [Narrator] The loss of Mars Polar Lander was first believed to have been caused by a premature shutdown If true, the Lander after safely was lost in the last But no crash site has Subsequent research that the Lander in its But Mars Polar Lander remains - We just went too far and reduce the number of eyes, It was just too fragile. It almost worked. In fact, it probably could have worked. But that is not the right answer. The right answer is to of checks and balances and safety net. So that in fact, you don't expose teams to these sorts of situations which are really The eyes of the world are always upon us when we go to the red planet. When we succeed--- - [Narrator] One week Ed Stone, once again, addressed the lab. While acknowledging another painful loss, his message was really about the future. - The last week has been very difficult and the attention is far from over. But scrutiny and criticism At times we will be uncomfortable with some of what is said about us. But at the end of the day we will learn from what has happened and JPL will be a better I was reminded of this earlier this week, when Homer Hickam, the some of you may know the &quot;October Sky.&quot; And he suggested that I turn to chapter 19 of his book. A lot has happened to you, But I'm telling you, if you you will regret it the rest of your life. You've got to put all so that you can do your job. Your job, sonny, is to build your rockets. You've got to give it You all are Homer Hickams. A lot has happened to you, But if you stop working on you too will regret it You have to put all your so you can do your job. Because your job is to build the rocket. Your rocket is going to open the doors to space exploration in the 21st century. Thank you. (audience clapping) (soft music) - [Facilitator] All will be placed into the Will you all please stand - We just went too far. We pushed those boundaries too far and we've cut, we cut back too far on to be sound management and I think the project felt was reasonable and that it's good work and it would work and And it would've worked But that's the big if, you know, They're mistake makers. And you have to have a system Which means you have to - We find a NASA headquarters, Jet Propulsion Laboratory's interface, that was ineffective in resolving We find a Lockheed--- I think that JPL had two responsibilities. They had the responsibility but they also had the responsibility you know, that it wasn't, that the direction was not executable. And we identified organizational changes that we thought were appropriate at JPL and at NASA headquarters to assure the success of - I was excoriated, in the hearings in the Congress. It was ugly. - I don't object to That's what it's all about. I definitely object to especially what I unmercifully - I'll answer the question. I feel a certain level of - [Senator Vern] Well, I'm trying to get to the point yet-- - But those two missions to Mars will always be on my back. I don't care. - We wanted to push the limits He was not thrilled with what he heard, I guess, would be a way to describe it. I mean, he didn't say You know, it's a problem. But he was, you know, he was having difficulty as I would have, you know, internalizing - You don't win popularity contests when you're changing bureaucracy. - As a NASA administrator, I was worried we were going due to this gnashing of teeth. And there were people at NASA headquarters who love retribution. - It had to go down hard. I think it would have gone because it was a pretty And it really said that, you that was destructive for NASA. - So if there is no further the Committee on Science stands adjourned. (gavel banging) (footsteps approaching) - I pushed too hard. And in doing so, stretched It wasn't intentional. I believed in the vision. But it may have made I have no qualms about pushing them. Albeit, they should have but it's okay. I wanted to demonstrate to the world that we could do things much And you delivered. What we did is we reduced from, in excess of billions, to a few hundred million. We knew we could have errors So what? I salute the team's conviction and courage and make no mistake, they They did not fail alone. As the head of NASA, I You can't have stunning And I have no regrets about that mission. Zero. None. (soft music) - [Narrator] The Mars 98 and a new beginning. Rather than retrenching, NASA's and given greater financial support. In years to come, technical twins of Mars Polar Lander would fly. The Climate Orbiter mission as Mars Odyssey 2001. - [Man 51] We have in lock right now and (men clapping) - [Narrator] Dan McCleese' on his third attempt, finally made it safely to the red planet. Getting Mars Odyssey underway for Ed Stone's tenure as JPL director. And before departing he to send an entirely new Dan Goldin liked the idea so much that he ordered up two of them. It was one of his last major decisions. (soft music) As 2001 was also Goldin's The era of faster, better, But there would also be far And while one era was ending, For JPL and its new the arrival of the 21st century would be the opening of a And several of those involved in Mars 98 would join the ranks of the One of them was Tom Gavin, who would put in place that all missions were required to follow. Spacecrafts became more but more of them worked. The year 2001 also marked the completion of Mars Global Surveyor's primary mission. The mapping orbiter for five more years, collecting more data than all previous Mars missions combined. But Global Surveyor Its demise brought on by an to the spacecraft's It was another reminder that humans are and will always be mistake makers. (soft music) (smooth classical music)