- A hearty bolognese of the perfect pasta sauce and that's because it's and the meat is almost impossibly tender. Well, you get all that glory for hours and hours and hours, so what happens on the weeknights? Well, Erin's here and she's that might actually solve our dilemma. - I certainly am Bridget and I'm gonna show you a and easy to make, and we're or that luscious texture. So we're gonna start with the meat. So I have one pound of the trick to keeping it tender and moist is I'm gonna make an alkaline solution. So I'm gonna take two tablespoons of water and 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda and I'm gonna add 1/4 So now I'm just gonna mix this together. Okay, so now I'm just gonna and I'm just gonna stir and the baking soda truly is our key to making this like a very and moist meat sauce. So I'm just gonna put that aside. and onto the next meat. So now I have pancetta. I have six ounces of pancetta here that I've roughly chopped and I'm gonna use a food processor. So this is a weeknight meal, we have a lot of chopping and the food processor So I'm gonna add my pancetta first, now we're gonna process this and it's gonna take about 15 to 20 pulses. (food processor whirring) All right, so our pancetta Starting to paste a little bit. Okay, so now we're gonna So we're adding one onion one carrot that I chopped coarsely, and one rib of celery that I also chopped. Now we're just gonna pulse this until the vegetables are finely chopped and a paste starts to form. It's gonna take about 12 to 15 pulses. (food processor whirring) Here we have our vegetable paste. The vegetables are really broken down and the fat of the pancetta into a nice paste. So now it's time to start So I'm gonna turn this and I have one tablespoon and I'm gonna add one tablespoon and we're just gonna let this heat up until the butter starts to sizzle. All right, our butter is - Doing all the right things. - And looking looking ready, exactly. So now I'm just gonna add our pancetta and vegetable mixture, now I'm just gonna add 1/4 a little bit more pepper, so we have the pepper and the beef and now we have the Okay, so we're just gonna let this cook for about eight minutes is the pancetta is and the vegetables are and all that moisture's gonna evaporate and then it's gonna start to build a fond, but we're not there yet. So this is gonna take about eight minutes, I'm gonna stir it occasionally. - Sounds great! - All right, so now it's sizzling and we've driven off all that liquid, now we want this to start to and is gonna be the We want color, I'm gonna stir for about eight minutes. All right, check that out, Bridget. That's what we want, we want and we also want our vegetables and the pancetta to be dark as well. So now I'm gonna add three We're just gonna cook this until the tomato paste to more of a rust color. Okay, so this has been cooking that tomato paste has really to more rusty color. So now I'm just gonna turn and now we're gonna add our ground beef. Just gonna add this to the pan. And another mistake that when they make bolognese is that they like to brown the beef, but you're really toughening I've cut this down to medium, we're just gonna cook this gently, I'm gonna break the meat no piece should be any larger Now I'm just gonna give that to you, we're moving on to the wooden spoon. All right, so we're just I'm gonna stir it occasionally until that beef loses its raw red color and it's gonna take about So we are there, the it's starting to look like - [Bridget] It sure does. - Excellent, all right, one cup of red wine. The red wine is basically so any fond that's there, I can scrape up and it's gonna incorporate - Is it gonna take hours to do this? - No, it takes about five minutes. Weeknight, baby! Do you hear it? It's gone from simmering to sizzling. - Yes! - That means that our our wine has reduced and we're ready for the next ingredient. Okay, so now I'm gonna add And this is a meat sauce, and I'm gonna add one - [Bridget] Now this just beef broth and water. - Just stay tuned, Bridget. - Okay. So now we're just adding one ounce of finely grated parmesan cheese, and this is gonna add and richness to our sauce. So now we're just gonna and once it comes to a simmer, put the lid on it and let it slowly cook for about 20 minutes. - Are you ready to take your Introducing, &quot;The Complete TV Show Cookbook,&quot; featuring every recipe from every episode of, That's thousands of recipes. That texture's unbelievable. - [Bridget] Reviews. - Gadgets you didn't know you needed. - [Bridget] And tips. - Yes, there's some terrible choices, but there are also some amazing choices. (Bridget laughing) - We've spilled all of our secrets and included our insider - [Bridget] Plus there's so you know exactly what to - And of course it - [Bridget] Get your copy today - So I simmer this for about 20 minutes and then I brought it up to a boil. Alright, we're ready for our next step. We're moving on to our pasta, we're gonna actually cook - Very weeknight. - Yes, &quot;Very weeknight.&quot; So we wanted this to be so it could cook the pasta. We're using one pound - [Bridget] Lovely, love it. - And this is dried, you do not wanna use fresh So we're just gonna nestle this in here and a couple things are gonna happen, number one, we're cooking it in the liquid so that the pasta, as it cooks, it's gonna absorb that meaty sauce and at the same time it's and it's gonna add kind of body - So the sauce gives to the - It's one big happy family. - Well, just even the practicality another pot full of - Yeah. - [Bridget] So any shortcuts are great. - It's a one pot deal. So now we're just gonna let this cook, I'm gonna cover it and for about 10 to 12 minutes. I'm gonna stir it occasionally, making sure that it keeps until that pasta is nice and tender and you're gonna see the sauce - Lovely, can't wait. - All right, Bridget. So this has been simmering for our pasta is just cooked. - [Bridget] Just gorgeous, rich - Absolutely all in one pot. So as with everything you make, I wanna make sure that Hmm. It has plenty of salt and I'm just gonna give it a little bit of fresh black pepper. (grinder scraping) And I have some hot water here, so as this cools, it might always have a little bit of hot water just to kind of adjust the consistency if it gets too tight on you. - Okay, great! - [Erin] Look at those noodles. - [Bridget] I'm looking, I'm looking! - Pop her down. (Bridget and Erin exclaiming) - [Bridget] Beautiful. - [Erin] I'm gonna focus and then I'm gonna go back and give us some more of that meat sauce. - [Bridget] All right, That looks so you look good! - [Erin] Heavenly, heavenly. And check that out, it's not tomato-ey, it's not like a marinara sauce, this is like a true meat sauce. - [Bridget] Beautiful That is gorgeous. - [Erin] Mm hmm, it's silky, - [Bridget] Start to Just about an hour. This tastes like it cooked all day. Just tons of flavor We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take your cooking to the next level, head over to AmericasTestKitchen.com and get a free all - While you're there, you can sign up for our and download our app. - With unlimited access to over 14,000 of our test kitchen recipes you'll have everything you - So I ask, what are you waiting for? - Let's make something great together.