The Panther stands as the most advanced ground attack fighter of its time. By the end of that day, it will play a crucial role in saving an American army from annihilation, securing the future of American naval aviation. Hiroshima, 1945. The atomic bomb's devastating power ends an empire and propels the world into the nuclear era. The destruction brought by this new weapon shifts America's military focus entirely. Soon, the carriers that brought the war to Japan's doorstep return home. Yet, as they dock in American ports, the very vessels that had carried the fight are already being consigned to history. To many, in positions of authority, the advent of the nuclear bomb has rendered the aircraft carrier obsolete, much like the carrier had previously done to the men returning home to a nation intent on enjoying a peaceful and secure future, purchased through four bloody years of hardship. In Europe they face an uncertain future and begin the long climb from Armageddon. Japan, too, lies in ruin. In despair, the former Axis powers and the nations they victimized look to the United States for salvation. America's response is the 17 billion dollar Marshall Plan. The failure of the Versailles Treaty following World War I is a potent lesson not lost on the leaders in Washington. In hopes of establishing political stability in Europe and Asia, aid flows overseas with partially paid by funds saved from the drastic cuts in the nation's military. Secretary of State George C. Marshall. This is certainly not the program of a country seeking to exercise domination or to influence unduly any foreign country. The nations and political groups which have now declared their opposition to the program apparently wish to block for their own reasons the revival of Western Europe. Whether we like it or not, we find ourselves, our nation, in a world position of vast responsibility. We can act for our own good by acting for the world's good. By 1946, a former ally has become the new adversary, the only nation that poses a serious challenge to American global hegemony. The Marshall Plan is seen as the key to averting Soviet communist encroachment beyond what are already considered the lost regions of Eastern Europe. In the face of massive defense cutbacks, one service emerges fairly unscathed, the Army Air Corps. By 1947 it becomes an independent branch of the Armed Services and takes on a title appropriate to its newfound stature. As the holder of the nuclear grail, the Air Force will receive a lion's share of new funding. It was, after all, the Air Force that brought Nazi Germany to its knees and delivered the nuclear blow to Japan, ending the war. Within a decade, this new branch will become the largest enterprise in the United States with over $70 billion worth of assets. The long-awaited unification of the armed services comes a step nearer as top-ranking officials agree on a plan. The long-awaited unification of the armed services comes a step nearer as top-ranking officials agree on a plan. To cut costs, the armed forces are streamlined under the new Office of the Secretary of Defense. The Army and Air Force band together in support of the Truman Administration Plan. The Navy, led by Navy Secretary James Forrestal, is less than enthusiastic and voices vehement opposition. At the heart of the debate lies the downsizing of the carrier fleet and the transfer of much of its airborne capability to the Air Force. According to the other services, the age of the carrier is dead. These massive floating airstrips will be sitting ducks in the nuclear era. Sentiments such as these, along with the government's new frugality, bring about a halt to the construction of the Navy's newest carrier, the USS United States. Furious, the Naval High Command readies itself for a war of self-preservation. The Navy, intent on proving the critics wrong, is prepared to show just how well a carrier fleet will fare in the face of nuclear attack. At a distant atoll in the Pacific, called Bikini Island, they prepare a derelict fleet for the ultimate test. The Navy brass, among them Secretary Forrestal, are escorted through the vessels moored in Bikini Bay. Ships that once sailed with the mightiest Navy in the world are manned by livestock in this, their final mission. Seven miles offshore, hundreds of men, admirals and stewards alike, wait for the drop. The warhead itself is identical to the one that leveled Nagasaki. Most assume that the damage will be severe but not complete. At the center of the fleet is the aircraft carrier Saratoga, the grand old fighting lady of the Pacific. Within seconds the entire naval fleet is demolished. The ships that remain afloat are covered in radioactive spray. The politicians controlling the budget, the conclusion is straightforward. One bomb, one bomber, and an entire fleet lost. Failing to recognize the carrier's potential for flexible response, the Navy inadvertently strengthens the Air Force's argument. Only hours after the blast, with her hull collapsed, the Saratoga sinks to the bottom. Funding becomes scarce, but at their Bethpage-Long Island plant, Grumman Aircraft presses on jet age project, a carrier-based plane intended to be the Navy's future ground attack aircraft. Initially designed as a two-seat night fighter, the XF9F-1 faces setbacks and stalls due to issues with its four-engine layout. But in August of 1946, when Grumman formally presents a new single-engine design to the Navy, it marks the beginning of a production run that will continue for more than a decade. Like its Grumman predecessors, the XF-9F2 quickly takes on the name of a big cat, but over time it becomes clear that the Panther, as it is called, carries much more than just a company nickname. Maybe they wouldn't go quite as high, nor quite as fast, because they were built a little heavier. But it meant then when you got hit by anti-aircraft fire that they would take more punishment than other airplanes. That's the reputation they had anyway. Now, of course, in modern days now, Grumman has made some of the highest and fastest aircraft that there are in existence. The Panther is just the latest in a line of stalwarts that included the Hellcat, the backbone of the American carrier force that crushed Japan. The Hellcat's legacy as a rugged ground attack weapon marks a path that later Grumman Iron Works because their airplanes were so good. They had a few that weren't too great, but generally speaking, most of them you couldn't tear apart. For most pilots, flying a Grumman plane from carrier to combat and back conjures up one word, survivability. In November of 1947, the F9F2 is rolled out of the Bethpage Plant test facility for its first flight. The plane's nose is engineered with sliding rails for easy access to its four 20 millimeter nose cannon. With a pressurized air-conditioned cockpit, ejection seat, radio direction finder, and quick release bubble canopy, the Panther is truly state-of-the-art. From the beginning, the plane displays the great handling characteristics that will one day make it the aircraft of choice for the Navy's Blue Angel flying team. You could pull 8, 10 G's and the bird would still be ready to fly the next day. I don't think I ever saw a wrinkle in a Panther jet. If you pull too many G's in the average airplane, the skin's going to wrinkle somewhere, but not in the Panther jet. The Panther's top speed is about 530 miles an hour at 20,000 feet. But like many early American jets, finding the power plant to reach that speed is no easy task. After struggling with a four-engine configuration and then an underpowered Westinghouse J30, Grumman eventually looks across the Atlantic to the Rolls-Royce company's Nene turbojet. This engine, too, is based on the Nene, but the engineers are neither British nor American. They're Russians working on imported Nene engines, around which they'll soon build the Soviet Union's premier jet fighter of the early 1950s, the MIG-15. Soon, both MiG and Panther will become reacquainted in the skies over a distant Asian peninsula. The jet error poses many new challenges, and nowhere is this more true than in the realm of American naval aviation. Since new carriers aren't being constructed to accommodate modern aircraft, vintage vessels are refitted instead. Jet weights and landing speeds demand much sturdier carrier decks, so those still in service are strengthened and reinforced. By the late 1940s, Panthers are deployed across the fleet, a fleet whose survival is threatened more by domestic politics than by any external threat. In discussions within the Pentagon, the Air Force advocates for the complete elimination of all large carrier groups. Ironically, despite the upheaval of the era, Grumman's F-9 has become the cornerstone of the most advanced seaborne air force the world has ever known. Far to the east, events are rapidly intensifying global tensions, soon to test the Panther's capabilities. In June 1948, the Soviet Union blocks West Berlin from the rest of the free world. This leads to a year of heightened tension as an unyielding America refuses to let the isolated city fall under Soviet control. That same year, fear and paranoia gripped the world when the Soviets unveiled their Soviets unveil their new long-range bomber, the Tupolev Tu-4 Bull, unsettling the Western powers. ends. America prepares to face attack on its cities and industrial centers under a combined civilian defense program. Any community is vulnerable to possible bombing, including the final threat of the devastating atom. For the first time, the USSR not only possesses atomic weapons, but also the means to deliver them to every major American city. Panic spreads through the United States, sending the nation into turmoil. That same year, in China, Mao Zedong's revolutionary forces bring a quarter of the world's population under the Red Banner. As the external communist threat spirals out of control, the nation redirects its anger inward. The 1948 election is a brutal contest with Truman facing accusations of being too lenient on communism. His opponent, Thomas Dewey, exploits these charges for all the political gain they can provide. And what are we going to do about the communists here in our midst? Some people jeer at the problem, calling it a red herring. Some people get panicky about it. I don't belong to either of those groups. We must neither ignore the Communists, nor outlaw them. If we ignore them, we give them the cloak of immunity that they want. If we outlaw them, we give them the martyrdom that they want even more. We will, in the government we get next January, we will keep informed and we'll keep the American people informed where they are, who they are, and what they're up to. And if they, or anybody else, if they break our laws against treason, they'll get a freighter's treatment. As fear of Soviet nuclear power intensifies, trust in traditional military priorities begins to waver. By 1949, the Air Force has effectively won the inter-service struggle, and despite the known vulnerability of the B-36 long-range bomber to interception, it receives significant funding. Amid protests from Secretary Forrestal and others, congressional leaders start discussing cuts to naval aviation as high as 60%. The prevailing belief is that the bomber's long-range atomic strike capability renders naval carrier task forces obsolete. Within months, the inter-service rivalry claims its first victim. James Forrestal, asked to resign as Secretary of Defense, burdened by depression and exhaustion, On June 25, 1950, in the remote regions of Korea, Northern dictator Kim Il-sung launches his invasion to reunify the country by force. He has the tacit approval of both Moscow and Beijing. Recent statements from Washington outlining the regions America deems vital exclude South Korea. A tragic oversight. Leaders in both Russia and China do not expect the U.S. to intervene. The attack is brutal and unexpected. Within two days Seoul falls as Communist forces push southward, closely pursued by a rapidly disintegrating South Korean army. But America's response is swift and decisive. With UN approval, US troops from the occupation forces in Japan are quickly sent to Korea. Many still in transport planes dusted with coal are quickly sent to Korea, many still in transport planes dusted with coal from the Berlin airlift. Most anticipate an easy victory against a backward opponent. However, peacetime occupation duty in Japan has left the American forces unprepared, soft, inadequately trained, and suffering from severe equipment shortages. The first unit to engage in battle is code-named Task Force Smith. It is a grandiose title for a single battalion of inexperienced enlistees. The enemy they face, however, is well-equipped, highly motivated, and thoroughly trained. In the face of this onslaught, the beleaguered G.I.s desperately wait for air support that simply isn't available. Both South Korean and U.S. forces are pushed to the southern tip of the Korean Peninsula, where they barely cling to the last piece of Korean soil, the Busan perimeter. Each day, the perimeter shrinks as North Korean forces, equipped with Soviet tanks, roll over the scattered American units. Due to recent defense budget cuts, most American troops are armed only with World War II era bazookas, which prove entirely ineffective against the enemy. The closest air support comes from F-80 shooting stars and F-84 Thunderjets flying in from Japan. However, due to the long distance to Korean airspace, these aircraft can only remain over the battle zone for a brief 15 minutes before they must return. As the situation grows more dire, carriers are rushed toward Korea. Aboard the carriers, F9F Panthers are about to enter combat for the first time. Never before have carrier jets been launched into battle. Unlike their Air Force counterparts, Navy Panthers provide sustained cover for the desperate UN troops below. Flying as many as four missions a day, some nearly two hours long, Panther pilots work Pilots work tirelessly around the clock to halt the North Korean advance. Sound of aircraft taking off. Back home, the U.S. military, severely depleted, scrambles to prepare for war. Carriers, long since mothballed, are reactivated, along with the planes that will fill their decks. Most of these are older, prop-driven aircraft, reflecting an American military still transitioning to the jet age. At the same time, both the Navy and Marines scour the country for pilots to fly them. Many World War II veterans who had settled into civilian life are called back to service. Some, like baseball legend Ted Williams, are thrown into Panther cockpits with only limited training. He really wasn't well trained as a pilot. We trained him to fly weather in Korea in combat. But of course we were always watching, being very careful. And Ted would have been an exceptionally good pilot had we had a longer period to work with him. Those recalled to duty have few jet hours and little recent flying experience. The rush to place older pilots into jet cockpits and into the grueling routine of multiple carrier landings often pushes safety and sound judgment to their limits. After accelerated carrier qualification on land strips, the pilots are quickly moved to the real thing. But over time, carrier launch procedures are perfected into a precise art. First, the plane handlers position the Panther on the catapult with the section leader on the port side and the wingman on the starboard once aligned, the plane is revved up to full power, with the pilot gripping the stick with his right hand and the throttle with his left. A final salute signals the launch. Let the cat fly. As always during launch operations, a helicopter hovers nearby, ready to assist in the event a plane or pilot goes overboard. The Panther's tricycle landing gear causes it to sit in a tail low position and at full throttle it has a tendency to scorch the caulking between the planks of the flight deck. The solution is retractable blast boards which deflect the exhaust, allowing plane handlers to pass within three feet behind the aircraft. Upon launch, Panthers carry nearly 6,400 pounds of ordnance and fuel beneath their 9,300 pound frame. This includes up to a thousand pounds of high explosive bombs, 760 rounds of 20 millimeter cannon shells, and over 920 gallons of fuel. With a range of nearly 1,200 miles, no part of the Korean Peninsula is out of reach for these planes. With a stall speed of just 78 knots, Panthers deliver their payloads with remarkable precision. As they dive onto their targets, the Panthers deploy air brakes to smooth their descent, clearly visible on the fuselage underside beneath the canopy. We were the heavy haulers out there and we were doing a lot of close air work up in front of the 1st Marine Division and in front of the Army Divisions also. We did napalm, we used high velocity aircraft rockets, doing early morning road recces way up where you'd go up in the way up, as we called it, way up in Indian country at that time, way up north, and drop down at first light in the morning and come down along the roads trying to pick up trucks or trains that hadn't gotten in yet. We use the airplane for a lot of purposes out there. We use it on, I guess, more close air support than anything else. We work in very, very close in front of our own troops, and that's very exacting work. To sustain this level of operations, a fleet of support ships shadows each carrier, supplying the ships and planes with the necessary resources. Each floating air base requires replenishment about every three days. But the Panthers don't solely operate from carriers offshore. Marines, like John Glenn, are stationed at the numerous ground bases that spring up just behind the front lines. Conditions at these bases are primitive, but the Panther's ease of maintenance proves well suited to the harsh environment. The runways, made of graded steel mesh laid over bulldozed dirt, quickly become pocked with craters from the constant barrage of incoming aircraft. It's not unusual for pilots to burn through a set of tires after every mission, but with the arrival of General Douglas MacArthur, the harshness of the terrain and early battlefield defeats soon give way to a sense of waning hope. One of General MacArthur's first actions is to launch a strategic bombing campaign aimed at, in his own words, flattening every village, town, and city north of the 38th parallel. On June 30th, he issues orders declaring all of Korean airspace a free-fire zone. B-29s flying from Okinawa begin their three-year mission to destroy the Communists' ability to move troops and supplies. However, American bomber crews are trained to operate in large formations, and soon there are far too few viable targets left in the north to justify such attacks. In August 1950, B-29s carry out the largest carpet bombing raid since Operation Cobra in Normandy, dropping over 3,200 500-pound bombs across a 3 by 7 mile area where a large North Korean troop concentration is believed believe to be. Intelligence photos later reveal that there were no enemy troops present. In one instance, a B-29 chases a lone North Korean soldier on a motorcycle down a road until its bombs catch up with him. As early as 1942, air warfare strategist Alexander Saversky wrote, Total war from the air against an undeveloped country is nigh futile. It is one of the strange paradoxes of modern warfare. The most advanced weaponry is often least effective against the most primitive civilizations. The Korean experience highlights a key lesson. In the end, formation bombing results in over 200,000 North Korean civilian deaths, yet it has only a limited strategic effect on the battlefield. While the enemy's road network is effectively destroyed, the North Koreans' relentless ability to move supplies at night or over land allows them to continue fighting effectively throughout the conflict. However, on September 15, 1950, at Inchon Harbor, the tides of war shift dramatically. In one bold move, MacArthur orchestrates a landing behind the North Korean lines. Forced with the threat of encirclement, the North Koreans are forced to abandon their grip on the Pusan perimeter and retreat. UN casualties during the invasion are incredibly light, with only 22 killed. It becomes the greatest American victory of the war, sending the North Korean army reeling. The U.S. landings at Incheon represent MacArthur's shining moment. Haunted by the memories of the disaster at Anzio, many in Washington had been hesitant to take such a risk. But the victory is decisive, and MacArthur revels in the triumph. As U.N. forces liberate the areas around Seoul, they uncover horrifying evidence of the brutal nature of North Korean occupation. Thousands of UN prisoners of war have been found and executed. Many more South Korean civilians, deemed unsympathetic by their communist overlords, are murdered and buried in shallow mass graves. The South quickly reestablishes itself under the leadership of President Syngman Rhee. However, despite being freer than the North, South Korea is still autocratic, with Rhee himself acting as a dictator. As Seoul is retaken, thousands of citizens suspected of Communist sympathies, or simply in Rhee's way, are rounded up for summary imprisonment and execution. The advance northward mirrors Patton's blitz through France, with enemy resistance collapsing before the relentless UN forces. Within a month, the 38th parallel is left behind and the North Korean capital Pyongyang falls. A massive airborne drop blocks the retreating remnants of Kim's army. When UN ground forces link up with these paratroopers, victory appears within reach. MacArthur, initially focused on destroying North Korea's ability to wage war, begins to entertain grander ambitions. The speed and ease of the victory tempt him, and many in Washington, to consider a unified Korea firmly aligned with the West. But as UN forces continue pressing northward, sporadic numbers of Chinese regulars are discovered among the prisoners, signaling the presence of a new, far more dangerous threat. Incredibly, the high command dismisses the presence of Chinese troops as inconsequential. As the situation takes a sudden turn, Truman and MacArthur meet at Quake Island to discuss their strategy moving forward. When asked about the rumors of Chinese troops massing across the Yalu River, MacArthur reassures Truman that even if the Chinese do attack, American air power can easily destroy the bridges and forward Chinese bases crucial to a successful offensive. Truman directs his field commander not to push too far. Meanwhile, Panthers, armed with aerial cameras, play a significant role in gathering intelligence over both sides of the Yalu. These unarmed Panthers are typically accompanied by a fighter escort. As the Navy's first photo reconnaissance jets, they conduct countless missions over hostile territory to assess enemy troop concentrations. However, the photos they bring back are either misinterpreted or ignored. By the beginning of November 1950, the CIA estimates that nearly 40,000 Chinese troops are already in Korea. Even more remarkably, when presented with evidence showing another 700,000 massed just across the border, MacArthur's command pays little attention. After all, it's a peasant army, lacking in training and heavy weapons, that is seen as unlikely to pose a real threat. November 1st, 1950 In the early morning hours of November 1, a quarter of a million Chinese troops surge across the Korean border. All along the front, UN forces are overwhelmed by the sheer mass of the assault. For America, the Chinese invasion is quickly framed as part of the larger struggle against world communism. But for the leaders in Beijing, there is no ideological complexity to the decision. The invasion is driven by security priorities that predate the birth of communism by a millennium. To this resurgent Asian power, the presence of a massive Western army positioned on the Manchurian border is simply unacceptable. Resistance crumbles before wave after wave of enemy infantry. At the United Nations, the South Korean representative is quick to condemn the attack. I point my finger at these representatives of the Chinese Communist regime, and I ask, why do they come there with unclean hands? I ask again, why does this group come here with the hands that drip with the blood, the blood of the United Nations troops, the blood of the Korean people? In Washington, leaders of the nation's four largest veterans group petitioned Truman to use the atomic bomb on North Korea, with some even advocating for large-scale bombing of select Chinese cities. Both options are seriously considered by the Joint Chief of Staff. In response, Truman, in classic Cold War rhetoric, reaffirms the U.S. commitment to preventing any more dominoes from falling. If aggression is successful in Korea, we can expect it to spread throughout Asia and Europe and to this hemisphere. We are fighting in Korea for our own national security and survival. We have committed ourselves to the cause of a just and peaceful world order through the United Nations. We stand by that commitment. The American public, already on edge, fears that this could be the prelude to World War III. The Soviets, they fear, will certainly come to China's aid, further escalating the global conflict. In New York, thousands of civilians participate in civil defense drills, learning rescue and survival techniques in preparation for the aftermath of a nuclear strike. Back in Korea, the fear is far more tangible. As winter sets in, thousands of G.I.s and Marines retreat southward over land that had been secured only weeks before. Many others fall into captivity. MacArthur himself compiles a list of nuclear targets spanning from North Korea into China, stating that to execute this plan he would need 26 nuclear warheads. Feeling politically constrained by the restrictions on bombing north of the Yalu River, MacArthur's frustration with Truman intensifies, leading to their publicized clash and MacArthur's dismissal less than six months later. Despite the continuing large-scale strategic bombing, the same issues persist. Tremendous destruction is inflicted, but the enemy's ability to move and supply troops is only marginally disrupted. Early on, many air raids targeting the road network do little to slow the enemy's advance. Instead, they take a heavy toll on friendly forces and the thousands of refugees fleeing the battle zones. The reason is straightforward. The Chinese Army is primarily a lightly equipped peasant force, advancing almost entirely on foot and across the land. Most of their supplies are moved at night or by thousands of porters trudging through the countryside. Adding to the challenge, intelligence officers accustomed to American divisions consuming 600 tons of supplies a day, overestimate the Chinese need. In reality, Chinese divisions operate on just 50 tons per day. Standing just offshore, the carriers offer the real means of confronting this kind of enemy. They move in racetrack patterns a few miles offshore, launching ground-attack aircraft in a continuous cycle of strikes. Throughout the war, none proved more effective than the Grumman Panther. For the first six months of the conflict, American air superiority remains unchallenged. However, in November 1950, another shockwave reverberates across the Western world, the arrival of a new aircraft, one for which the Panther is no match. When the MIG-15 jet fighters first appear in the skies over Korea, they reveal a technological superiority that many had not anticipated from the Communist world. 50 MiGs quickly expands to 450, flown mainly by Chinese and Soviet pilots operating from safe zones behind the Yalu River. By the end of the war, this number nearly doubles. In response, the US Air Force deploys the F-86 Sabre just a month later. Despite chronic shortages, which prevent more than 150 Sabres from being stationed in Korea at any one time, the balance of air superiority quickly shifts. After I had finished my Marine missions, flying the F-9s, they had one position they kept for one spot in each Air Force squadron that they kept for a Marine pilot, because the Marines worked out an arrangement, they wanted to give some of our pilots some air-to-air experience. It was great. It was really a different kind of flying that I've been doing in the Panther, down doing close air support and down trying to dig it out down close to the ground. And this, of course, was flying up 35,000, 40,000 feet. You didn't stand off like people do today and shoot a missile and it goes out and does your work for you. What you had, you had to get out and you maneuvered him. You went out, you out flew the guy or out maneuvered him and you had to get him behind here 500 to 1,000 feet back and hose him, we'd say, with these.50 caliber. And so it was really old World War II type dogfighting, except you're doing it in jets. And so you're going, you have closing speeds, 500, 600 miles an hour, and planes going the opposite direction. You're closing maybe 800, 1,000 miles an hour. And you'd see planes, and you'd get into them, and all at once, bang, there you are, you and the guy you're with. And the rest of the air war has gone someplace, oh, I can't even see anybody else in sight. In the following years, U.S. pilots demonstrate absolute superiority over their MiG counterparts. Though the Russian plane has superior climb rates and turning capability, by the end of the war, the dramatic aerial dogfights, often fought at altitudes of 40,000 feet, represent only a small part of the larger picture. The real battle rages on the ground, where tensions escalate dramatically, particularly between dusk and dawn. It is during these nightmare hours that the Chinese forces are most likely to mount their attacks, adding a new layer of danger and uncertainty to the conflict. The Grumman Panther, originally designed as a night fighter, provides well-suited for operations after dark, despite its eventual role being overtaken by other aircraft. We used to go up with two planes and keep them over the front lines being controlled with a special type marine car ground radar. And we would, they would give a signal to drop, say, 25, 30,000 feet. Those were enjoyable flights from my point of view because there were very few other people up there in the black of night because they didn't have a very fine control system. So we were all on our own and of course with an airplane like that that you had the ultimate and trust in It was enjoyable flying that bird at night The difficulty of returning to a carrier in the vast pitch-black expanse of the ocean is a daunting one something like finding a postage stamp in a dark room and Once a pilot locates their carrier landing it becomes its own complex challenge. Roger, one way over the bar, left 35, human. Roger, you're looking pretty good right now. You're going low. Get up on to me, Paul, you're low. 505 to 800, say you can't go down to 600. Check your line up, hold it up, power, power, you're good to go. Roger, we're going to land. Roger, we're going to land. Roger, we're going to land. Check your line up, hold it up, power, power. Check your line up, hold it up, power, power, power. Winter conditions off the coast of the Korean Peninsula are unforgiving. Storms in the Sea of Japan are fierce and unpredictable, often forcing carriers to navigate around these vicious weather systems. During these conditions, flight operations become nearly impossible, and the prospect of ditching at sea is an unthinkable nightmare for the pilots. But the real struggle is for the G.I.s and Marines fighting on the ground. Faced with severe casualties, the Marines refused to leave their fallen comrades behind. Even when cut off and surrounded, they continued to look at the skies for air support and resupply, determined to hold their ground and stall the relentless Chinese advance. Their perseverance under such harrowing circumstances becomes a testament to their resolve, and resolve and despite the overwhelming odds they managed to slow the tide of the Chinese offensive. In the realm of close air support, Marine and Navy pilots consistently outpace their Air Force counterparts, benefiting from a highly effective organic support system developed over years of cooperation dating back to the island hopping campaigns of World War II. Many Army commanders openly express a preference for Navy or Marine air support, citing their more integrated approach to ground operations. Back home, the rebuilding of the U.S. military continues in earnest, with priorities shifted in response to the ongoing conflict. In 1952, the first of many new Essex-class carriers is commissioned. These vessels become the cornerstone of the new Navy, marking the resurgence of naval aviation power. The USS Forrestal, the first of its kind, leads the way, symbolizing a new era in naval warfare and vindicating the legacy of the Essex-class carrier program. Meanwhile, the Navy works to update its fleet of aircraft. The Grumman Panther, still in service, is upgraded to meet the needs of modern warfare, but it is quickly eclipsed by a more advanced aircraft, the Grumman Cougar. The Cougar is essentially a larger, more powerful featuring a 40% larger swept wing and a top speed nearly 100 miles per hour, faster than its predecessor. This new aircraft reflects the Navy's push to keep pace with the rapidly advancing technological landscape of the Korean War and beyond, as the need for faster, more capable fighters becomes ever more pressing. The Grumman Panther, originally conceived in an era when naval aviation seemed to be on the decline, plays a pivotal role in the Korean War, helping to revitalize carrier-based air power at a time when it was desperately needed. began here at the 38th parallel. Just how did this imaginary line become the fuse for a three-year explosion? On June 25, 1950, Communist North Korea crosses the 38th parallel into South Korea. What was once considered a pawn in Asian politics now takes center stage across the globe. Armed with Soviet weaponry, American advisors are pushed to the edge of the Korean Peninsula, causing Harry Truman, in a decision that defines his presidency, to take action. Three days later, under authorization by the United Nations, American forces are sent back to Asia, where just five years before, they had battled Japan in a brutal struggle. By Truman's orders, air strikes against communist forces on both sides of the 38th parallel are approved. And in looking for a plane to complete this mission, one of the greatest bombers in history is brought out of mothballs to fight another day. The B-29 Superfortress, the airplane that brought Japan down to its knees, the airplane that symbolized America's industrial strength, and the airplane that dropped the most infamous bomb in history, rises from the ashes. Its goal this time is to destroy the highly industrialized North, the same way it decimated the land of the rising sun. To knock out bridges, dams and railways. To reduce the city centers of Pyongyang, Chongying and Roshin into rubble. But unfortunately for the B-29, a fighter bearing the Red Star, incorporating swept wings and jet technology, writes the obituary for this mighty bomber, ending its impressive run as America's greatest aircraft. Following the defeat of both Germany and Japan, the American people celebrate after nearly four years of sacrifice and struggle. With the powers of Europe in economic ruins, the United States emerges as an undisputed superpower. At the same time, the Soviet Union, America's biggest ally during the fight against the Nazis, begins to flex its muscles across the globe. There was already a lot of animosity and tension and a lack of clarity about exactly how the two would stack up. And I think it's also important to keep in mind that nobody really knew a grand vision for Europe, even as Nazi Germany collapsed. Following VE Day, communist states are established across Eastern Europe, presenting a direct threat to Western democracies allied with America. At Potsdam, it becomes clear that a new Cold War is taking shape between these two former allies. With an iron curtain dividing Europe, President Harry Truman moves quickly to contain Soviet expansion. Billions of dollars in financial aid is provided to Western European countries, still in economic shambles after the war. Known as the Marshall Plan, a line in the sand is drawn between Stalin and America. Why must the United States carry so great a load in helping Europe? The answer is simple. The United States is the only country in the world today which has the economic power and productivity to furnish the needed assistance. From a Soviet perspective, it was a weapon that they just couldn't even possibly counter in the wildest dreams. There's no doubt whatever in my mind that if we decide to do this thing, we can do it successfully. Next, in what solidifies the image of Americans as liberators, food and materials are flown during the greatest airlift in history. And finally, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is established, with each member in this military alliance pledging to come to the other's aid in case of an enemy attack. Back in Washington, D.C., the Truman Doctrine of Containment calls for a radical change in how the military operates. By executive order, on July 26, 1947, the President signs into law the National Security Act, bringing the Army and Navy under one umbrella, known as the Department of Defense. In addition, the dream of Army Air Force Chief Hap Arnold comes true when the United States becomes a separate independent branch of the military. And with its creation, this new department has big plans on how to defeat the communists. With the growing Soviet threat, it becomes vital for America to possess a truly intercontinental bomber. In the factories of Convair, the gigantic B-36 Peacemaker, having a wingspan of 230 feet, 6 radial engines, 4 turbojets, and a payload of over 70,000 pounds, is wheeled out for the first time. With this behemoth, the United States can now fly straight into the Soviet Union. It would drop the atomic bombs which would bring the Soviet Union to its knees. And it would have done that. That's why they call it the peacemaker, because it kept the peace because of its capability. As a result, its predecessor, the B-29 Superfortress, once the biggest plane in the world, now becomes a medium-range bomber. Another revolution in aircraft design also happens during this period. Propeller-driven planes are phased out by jet engines, giving pilots the ability to fly significantly faster with this new form of propulsion. The B-51 Mustang, an aircraft that ruled the skies over Germany and Japan, is replaced with Lockheed's F-80 Shooting Star, a jet-powered aircraft with a maximum speed of 600 miles per hour. While this research and development continues, on the continent of Asia, the balance of power shifts dramatically in 1949, when Mao Zedong becomes the first chairman of the newly created People's Republic of China. With this transformation, the United States' biggest ally in the fight against Japan becomes part of the Soviet sphere of influence, making it now one of America's biggest enemies. That same year, Stalin acquires the technology to develop the atomic bomb, destroying the United States' nuclear monopoly. The Soviet Union getting the atomic bomb followed quickly, chronologically, by the fall of China, you know, are very, very close in chronological period. And they feed in the United States in particular, this this conception of communism rolling over a monolithic communism spreading throughout Europe. And it breeds, obviously, the sort of hostility and ideological blinders on, if you will, that the McCarthy era comes best known to be associated with. But it's certainly a massive shift in American perception. With the tension escalating, it becomes clear that a showdown is on the horizon. The only question is where? In this Cold War, instead of a direct confrontation between the two superpowers, proxy battles take place in faraway lands. And in 1945, very few could have guessed that a third world war would almost break out over a tiny strip of Asian land south of the Yalu River. The nation of Korea, a protectorate of Japan since 1905, is liberated following the end of the Second World War, with the Soviets occupying the highly industrialized north, and the Americans managing the agrarian south, with the 38th parallel being the dividing line. When we think about North Korea during the Korean War it helps to remember that the Japanese had occupied Korea from 1905 until 1945 and they had created a modern infrastructure of roads, industrial facilities and had brought North Korea very far along toward becoming a more modern state. And indeed, in 1950, North Korea was probably in many ways in better shape than it is today. For five years, tensions escalate between the opposing sides, with war almost inevitable. In southern Korea, in the American zone, native communists, inspired by their brothers to the north, have succeeded in vastly complicating American plans for Korean self-rule. In 1949, the American Secretary of State, Dean Acheson, delivered a speech in which US position toward the Soviet Union and listed allied countries that the United States would defend if there were trouble caused by Soviet aggression, and he left out Korea. Not very many Americans noticed that Korea was left out of the Dean Acheson speech, but the North Koreans noticed it. The hostilities brewing for half a decade finally erupt on June 25, 1950, when North Korean forces armed with Soviet tanks crossed the 38th parallel, making American and South Korean forces hold on for dear life at the Pusan perimeter. We're pathetically weak in the Far East. The North Koreans wanted to reunite the peninsula, they always have, they always will. And they persuaded both the leaders in Russia and in China that they could pull it off in just a few days, so to give them a fait accompli before the United States could react, the peninsula would be reunited, both Russia and Chinese leaders believed that the United States wouldn't respond. When North Korean forces invaded South Korea on June 25th, 1950. Nobody in Washington was expecting that to happen, nor were we prepared for it. When Truman hears that his outnumbered soldiers are on the brink of being pushed into the Sea of Japan, the President moves quickly in getting United Nations approval to send troops to the Korean Peninsula. When the Soviet ambassador walks out of the Security Council weeks before in protest. His absence clears the way for a resolution authorizing the use of force against this act of aggression. By the 27th of June, Truman orders General Douglas MacArthur, the head of SCAP in Japan, to mobilize U.S. ground forces for battle in what the president describes as a police action in order to avoid congressional approval. Backing them up, airstrikes against North Korean targets that include troop concentrations, supply depots and rail yards are approved. Looking for a plane to perform this task, the newly created United States Air Force turns to its very best. The Korean War was being fought with the older aircraft in inventory and that in the world of bombers meant the B-29. Boeing's B-29 Superfortress, a four-engine bomber responsible for the destruction of Japanese cities, is selected as the centerpiece in the bombing campaign against North Korea. Known as the billion-dollar gamble, having been built in the factories of Georgia, Nebraska and Kansas, this airplane proves decisive in weakening Hirohito's war machine, as thousands of sorties decimate square miles of Japan. With cities firebombed by incendiaries, a controversial strategy approved by General Curtis LeMay, the most famous bombing mission of all time is carried out on a B-29 when the Enola Gay drops the first atomic weapon in history on the city of Hiroshima, opening up a nuclear Pandora's box where just one bomb can wipe out an entire population. And I think it's useful to, you know, remember Einstein, right, saying I don't know how they're gonna fight this war, but I guarantee you how they'll fight the next with sticks and stones. You know, he understood in general terms the magnitude of what they were doing, but in terms of the immediate implications, political, military, or even scientific, it was unclear to much of the world. It was just big, and nobody really knew enough about it to say exactly how big it was going to be. Post-war, despite the Superfortress being downgraded to a medium-range bomber, with of them sold for scrap, the existing B-29s still carry out some of the Air Force's most historic missions. The Pakusan Dreamboat travels non-stop from Honolulu, Hawaii to Cairo, Egypt in a record 39 hours and 36 minutes. On Bikini Atoll, the B-29 drops the atomic bomb in a series of tests during Operation Crossroads. And finally, a specially modified superfortress carries on its wings, Bell's rocket-powered X-1, where on October 14, 1947, the sound barrier is broken by pilot Chuck Yeager. Now, B-29s stationed at Anderson Air Base in Guam are ordered to land in Okinawa. The B-29 was the only available alternative. SAC was not going to let its handful of B-50s, which it had acquired by that time, be assigned to this role. The B-36 would be an overkill, and they didn't want to risk that. They were the prime assets for use against the Soviet Union, so they began pulling these poor, tired B-29s out of the depots where they were stored, stripping them down and restoring them. And they also began pulling out the poor, tired reserve officers who had fought one war, were happily sent over now as dentists or students or cops or whatever, and were extremely upset about being recalled to fight those wars. Their mission is to delay the enemy by maintaining air superiority, destroying bridges and railways. However, the B-29's greatest limitation is neither in its payload nor in its outdated equipment. Instead, it comes from Washington, D.C., where orders are given not to attack China or the Soviet Union, the two nations supplying the North Koreans with military equipment. There was a great fear that if you went too far, you would provoke Russian intervention perhaps, and you might invoke formal Chinese intervention. Now the Chinese reaction, the Chinese did not declare war on us, they simply sent hundreds of thousands of troops and equipment south. So there was a desire to avoid the sudden extension of the war, and they felt that bombing across the Yalu might precipitate that. So no matter how many sorties are flown north of the 38th parallel, in the end, the strategic bombing campaign is going to have finite limits in terms of an effective payoff. It is a controversial decision by the Truman administration that is hotly debated by American military leaders. When United States aircraft enters Korea, it becomes evident that after a period of post-war demobilization, they are not prepared for this conflict. The bulk of the forces that we had over there were a few P-26 outfits that took over and introduced interdiction. And P-51s came in later. We had some jets that had a tough time getting over there and getting back to Japan. It was a very, very meager effort, but oddly enough, it was just sufficient to stall them to the point that the Pusan perimeter held and we had a chance to build up a little bit. The F-80, designed as a high-altitude interceptor, performs so poorly in ground attacks that Second World War Mustangs are pulled out of storage to close the gap. And with vital targets in China off-limits for the B-29 and its counterpart, the B-26 invader, the words of General Omar Bradley ring true. That Korea is the wrong war, at the wrong place, against the wrong enemy. Despite these constraints, the 100 plus superfortresses America has, are put to work immediately. To stop the flow of supplies traveling south, B-29s are sent from Okinawa to bomb the highly industrialized North. Chongyin, Ungnam, Hurashin and the capital Pyongyang are to be attacked mercilessly. A typical sortie carrying 40 500-pound bombs wreaks havoc and by September of 1950, North Korea is destroyed. Unable to employ fighters and having such weak anti-aircraft defense, the B-29 is able to complete its mission flawlessly. The B-29s did do useful work in destroying what little industry the North Koreans had and they were invaluable in the interdiction role and that's a role which had never been designed but they were successful in it. By the end of October, over 30,000 tons of bombs are dropped, exceeding World War II records. While this air war ensues, on the ground, MacArthur pulls off one of the most spectacular amphibious assaults in history, during the battle at Yimshan, where 40,000 troops land successfully on the beaches. You talk about laying it all on the line. MacArthur had his whole career laid on the line there. He could easily have failed by reasons of a storm or some other miscalculations but the Inchon invasion succeeded. And when they got there, what they found was that the North Koreans had become a paper tiger because of the interdiction. There were so many tanks and trucks destroyed on the road that the invading, we were now the invading armies, we were going up into North Korea, were amazed to find how much destruction had been wrought by air power and by such a limited amount of air power. Two months later, UN troops not only take back all of South Korea, but are told to cross the 38th parallel to unite the two countries. Because of this decision, the Joint Chiefs of Staff orders a halt to the bombing of strategic targets in the North. By October of 1950, with UN forces now at the Yalu River, it appears the war is all but won by MacArthur's men. And I went home feeling very, very good about the situation. When I got to San Francisco, I made a speech on the subject and complimented him on what he had done and told the American people that I didn't think the Chinese were coming into Korea. And then, you know what happened. Days later, Mao's China comes to North Korea's rescue, launching a fierce counter-strike of 180,000 men, pushing coalition troops south of the 38th parallel. Chinese forces entered the war in November 1950 and reversed the tide of the war and defeated the US soldiers and marines who were in North Korea at the time and began a massive offensive and for a period of time appeared to be winning the war. Ironically, these forces entered the war zone through a series of bridges that were off limits for the B-29. With the Chinese firmly entrenched on the battlefield, a bitter war of attrition ensues for more than two years. With the situation being drastically altered, superfortresses are permitted to step up their campaign. B-29s dropped nearly 600 tons on the city of Sinuiju. Two raids against Pyongyang in January of 1951 destroy 35% of the city. The B-29s had a capacity that the other elements of the Air Force lacked and that was to a major target came up as what happened when the later in the war the North Koreans established airfields to operate from in the South Korean area where that they had occupied, B-29s could simply just take them out. They would go over and obliterate them. Now there were some losses incurred in this, but they were still an effective weapon for that kind of work. However, the aircraft's limitations are becoming evident during the Korean campaign. With improved anti-aircraft artillery forcing these planes to fly at altitudes above 18,000 feet, trying to hit a bridge or any other pinpoint target becomes a daunting task. Contributing to this sense of frustration, 500,000 North Koreans work at night to repair damaged rail lines and bridges, fixing them in as fast as two hours. And in what seals this bomber's fate, the B-29 meets its most fierce opponent in the Soviet MiG-15. A jet-powered fighter aircraft built in mass, incorporating a swept wing design to ensure greater speed, appears for the first time in combat. In order to mask Stalin's involvement, these planes are bartered to the Chinese whose pilots begin flying them over Korea. Using jet engine technology that oddly enough is given to them by the British, this aircraft proves superior over the battlefield, flying almost 200 miles faster than the F-80. Ironically, China, one of the poorest countries in the world, now possesses an airplane more advanced than anything America owns. Unlike the Second World War where no Japanese fighter could reach the B-29's top altitude, the MiG-15's ceiling is at over 50,000 feet. This allows it to hover over the superfortress, waiting for the perfect opportunity to come swooping down. And with a maximum speed of just under 700 miles per hour, this Soviet concoction proves to be the perfect antidote to the B-29 Mets. Even with F-80 and F-84 escort, they are no match for the MiG's 37 and 20mm cannons, with just a few hits being enough to bring down America's once mighty bomber. The role of the B-29 changed significantly with the introduction of the MiG-15. We didn't have fighters there that could defend it as escort fighters because the Republic F-84 and the MiG-80 simply weren't up to the MiG-15. There were targets instead of counters. And the B-29 itself, its firing mechanisms couldn't track the MiG-15s. They were so fast. So the role was changed from day bomber to night bomber. Encountering flak from MiG-15s, numerous superfortresses are easily shot down over Korea. As a result, future bombing missions are to be conducted only at night. And for the remainder of the war, the B-29s' undersurface are painted black. Many of the B-29s that you see in pictures from the Korean War have their undersides painted black. That is to make them more difficult to see by the enemy using searchlights. Even more frustrating for pilots is the policy prohibiting attacks against Chinese targets north of the Yalu where communist planes and equipment being shipped by the train load from Russia can fly across the border with immunity. An American pilot could be flying along the Yalu and could look down and could see row after row of MiGs basking in the sun, but we were throughout that entire time and indeed throughout the entire Korean War bound by a rule that was made in Washington that we would not cross the border between North Korea and China. It is a controversial decision by Truman as the war enters its second year. General MacArthur and I came to grips over the thing. We fell out on that very thing. He wanted to chase the planes over the border here and bomb the Chinese back behind the Korean border, as well as to move our army up and really fight a war here with Communist China. That we couldn't stand for because Russia and China had a mutual defense pact. If we had crossed the Yalu River into Communist China, or bombed Manchuria, the Russians would have come to the aid of the Chinese, and that would have immediately stalled on the Third World War. war. The MiG-15 proves to be so dominating that the straight-winged F-80 shooting stars, F-84 Thunderjets, and F-9F Panthers are easily outmaneuvered. This causes the U.S. government to call up North American Aviation's F-86 Sabre, the only fighter that stands a chance against the MiG. Despite its limitations, the Sabre proves itself during some of the greatest dogfights in aviation history. With these two planes going head-to-head, the superfortress continues bombing dams, airfields and bridges, hoping to cripple what is left of North Korea's infrastructure. Despite this destruction, on the ground a virtual stalemate continues. General MacArthur had a very aggressive desire and plan not only to use nuclear weapons to prevent further Chinese intervention in Korea, but also to turn loose the nationalist Chinese island of Formosa, known today as Taiwan, to invade China and create a second front. And it was not the wish of our leaders in Washington to expand the Korean War because they believed that that would lead to a world nuclear war with the Soviet Union. With Truman firing General MacArthur, the president sinks to all-time lows in popularity as the Korean War becomes a quagmire with no end in sight. By 1953, as Dwight Eisenhower enters the White House, a ceasefire that remains in effect to this day is signed between the two sides, ending the war after more than three years of fighting. We have stopped the shooting. That means much to the fighting men and their families, and it will allow some of the grievous wounds of Korea to heal. Therefore, I am thankful. It is, however, only a step toward what must yet be done. The task now is to put the ceasefire agreement into full effect as quickly as we can and get down to working out an enduring settlement of the Korean problem. Assessing the B-29's impact on the battlefield, the balance sheets provide mixed results. On the plus side, for an aircraft designed in 1940, who many thought would never be used again, it flies all but 21 days in a campaign lasting 37 months. With 21,000 sorties, dropping 167,000 tons of bombs, the superfortress was able to wreak havoc on North Korea. However, with the armistice in effect, it becomes clear that the B-29's days as a frontline bomber are over. With 16 being shot down by MiG-15s, and close to three times that amount being written off in crash landings. This Second World War era aircraft's greatest days are finished. And with jet technology here to stay, the plane is used for only experimental flights, being phased out after a service career spanning three decades. Even its propeller-driven successor, the B-36 is put into retirement with the introduction of missile technology, making it relatively easy for the other side to shoot down a costly aircraft. Nonetheless, the legacy of the superfortress would live on. A new line of jet bombers that would rule over the skies for the second half of the century, the B-47 Stratojet and the B-52 Stratofortress proudly carry on the B-29's reputation as an aircraft that dominated over the battlefield. In 1951, a Mikoyan-Goryevich MiG-15 is shot down over Korea's west coast and plummets into the Yellow Sea. The jet is pulled from the shallow water by US and South Korean forces, transported by a British frigate for study. At a US Air Force base in Dayton, Ohio, the plane is poured over. One of the first discoveries of this incredible aircraft comes when the engine is inspected. Expecting to find a hybrid of Russian and German jet technology, the team studying the captured prize receive a shock. The plane is powered by what appears to be a Rolls-Royce Neen II, designed in England. 1940. Since the signing of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, Germany and the Soviet Union have been in an alliance, using their combined might to carve up Eastern Europe. With France giving in quickly to the Nazis, England's newly appointed Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, knows that German troops will soon be clambering up the English beachfront. He decides to send a new ambassador to Moscow, and a Member of Parliament volunteers for the job. He is Richard Stafford Cripps. Born into privilege, Cripps' first love is chemistry, and following a stint as an ambulance driver during the Great War, he studies law and becomes a successful attorney, before an interest in politics lures him to run for office. Cripps joins the Labour Party, and in 1930 becomes Solicitor-General in Ramsay MacDonald's government, a position that includes the honour of becoming a knight. Though regarded by all as a brilliant man, Sir Stafford Cripps has a tendency to ruffle feathers and soon finds himself clashing with Labour over his political leanings. Some of his views are considered so extremely left-wing by the Labour Party that he is chased out. Now sitting as an Independent, he finds himself on a trip to Moscow with a goal of aligning the Soviet Union with Britain. Stafford Cripps was certainly born into a life of privilege and his father was a conservative MP, this no doubt stimulated his own interest in politics, but what I think really led him into his own particular line in politics was really his religion. We can't understand Stafford Cripps unless we understand that he was a committed Christian who had very fervent beliefs. In some ways they seem rather naive, though certainly idealistic. He believed in the brotherhood of man. The crucial event for him was really the economic crisis of 1931 when Britain was hit by the so-called economic blizzard that swept away the Labour government and seemed to indicate that the capitalist system simply wasn't coping and couldn't cope. This led Cripps from being a moderate member of the Labour Party into adopting Marxism, which naturally involved a degree of sympathy with the Soviet Union. In 1940, while the Battle of Britain rages, Cripps arrives in Moscow. While hope is high that he can steer Russia into an alliance with England, early results are not at all promising. Just days after Krips has a three-hour meeting with Joseph Stalin, the Soviet Premier and Foreign Commissar Vyacheslav Molotov gives a speech on how successful the Russian-German alliance has been for the country. Krips continually continually warned Stalin not to trust Hitler, but to no avail. The key episode was really from 1940 to 1941, when he went to Russia as Britain's ambassador. And what he found there certainly changed his view and formed what to many people will seem a surprisingly unfavourable view of Soviet Russia for such a left-wing figure. From his book, the Krips version, Dr. Peter Clark reads Krips' correspondence with his daughter during the politician's time as ambassador in Russia. He's talking about the regime and says that it has many difficulties, perhaps due partly because they're inherent in every form of dictatorship. And he continues in this way, if to all these difficulties you add the government by secret police and spies, which is the only method for a dictatorship, then in such a country as this, with a people of this kind apt to intrigue and brought up in underground revolutionary activities, you get perpetual change of personnel and liquidation of many of the more intelligent people, creating new difficulties of organisation. In the passage I just quoted, we see already, surely, that Cripps accepts that this is essentially a dictatorship, it is essentially a police state, that it is in many ways a deeply unattractive society. During the war, admittedly, he argued very strongly in favour of alliance with Russia as the best way to beat Hitler's Germany. But long before the end of the war, he was certainly no ideological captive of the Communist system. Within a year, Kripp's warnings about Hitler's trustworthiness become all too real, and Stalin must face the awful truth. Operation Barbarossa begins as Nazi Germany storms into Soviet controlled territory and pushes Stalin's forces back. It's a swift, fiery onslaught that knocks the Red Army back on its heels. It's a turn of events which suits Winston Churchill just fine. Not only does this new Eastern Front relieve some of the pressure on his troops, but it gives him, and particularly Krips, clout with Stalin and amongst the Russians. A bond is forged over their common enemy, and soon an Anglo-Russian alliance is formed. But Churchill may be on shaky ground at home. Not only do the Russian politicians embrace Krips, but the British public do as well. After a broadcast to the nation on the situation in Russia, Krips is suddenly one of the most popular men in the nation, even seen as a contender for the position of Prime Minister. At a time when defeats are plentiful, Cripps makes it known that he'd be ready to take up the post if Churchill is unable to manage. Churchill seizes on this. In March of 1942, he sends his new rival to India in order to broker a deal with Gandhi and Jinnah. If the Crips mission is a success, India will aid the war effort against the Nazis in exchange for self-rule once the conflict is at an end. But the mixed messages Crips seems to be giving to the Indian negotiators during the trip causes it to end with no deal in place. The Indian Congress Party will not agree to aid aid England in the war. But aid is coming from another source. Through its Lend-Lease program the United States of America begins to send supplies to the Allied forces in exchange for gold. They supply vast numbers of vehicles throughout the war and Britain is the main beneficiary of the deal. The Soviet Union is far behind the West in technological advances and needs aid as well. Russia receives close to 15,000 aircraft by the war's end, almost 20% of all the aircraft that they use. The most prominent of these is the Bell P-39 Airacobra. It's best suited for low-altitude flight due to its lack of turbo-superchargers. Its unconventional layout, with the engine behind the pilot, leaves little room for storing fuel. The standard load is carried in the P-39's wings. It's therefore limited to short-range tactical strikes. The most advanced fighters and bombers, the Americans keep for themselves. It aggravates the Soviets to be given the older technology, but they make do with what they're given. Of the equipment delivered, much of it is not suited to combat on the Eastern Front. Aircraft meant for tropical conditions are now used in a much colder climate. There are few spare parts, and so crews must sometimes improvise as best they can. The Soviets learn to adapt the Western technology to their needs and uses. Skills that will serve them well in the years to come. 1945 First Nazi Germany falls and then so does Winston Churchill. The general election on July 5th knocks the conservatives from power and brings in a new Labour government, led by the wartime coalition government's deputy prime minister, Clement Attlee. The public feels that the Labour Party will be more adept at helping England rebuild in the post-war period. Joining Attlee's cabinet as Minister of the Board of Trade is Sir Stafford Cripps. The election of a Labour government in 1945 came as a great surprise to the world, who imagined that Winston Churchill would inevitably win re-election having won the war. I think it's important to realise the strong elements of continuity, especially in foreign policy, that went over from Churchill's coalition wartime government, in which Labour had played a big part, into the post-war Labour government. The main thrust of this new government is to rebuild the war-weathered country. It's about winning the peace by giving Britons a crutch to lean on. They use the 1942 Beveridge Report as a guide for reforming the country. Attlee brings about sweeping changes that will alter the country for decades to come. Free national health care, education for everyone up to the age of 15, social security. He works towards giving India and Burma their freedom. It's far removed from the direction that their ally America is heading. More and more nations adopt communism, and never comfortable with these ideals, America finds these new social developments within Britain curious and worrisome. Churchill was the sort of man Americans understood, and Attlee is no Churchill. He's small and modest, spares his words when they aren't needed. To Americans, the contrast is a sharp one that gives them pause. Labour's domestic policies seem much closer to communism than to capitalism. Foreign policy was largely in the hands of the Prime Minister, Clement Attlee, and the very strong Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin. Now both of them in 1945 and 1946 were ready to take a much stronger line against the Soviet Union and its threat to the integrity of states in Eastern Europe than the Americans were at the time. had to argue with President Truman about the need to stand up to Soviet Russia. It wasn't really until events took their own course during 1946 that, in a sense, Truman came round to the rather harder line that the British government was already following. It's therefore somewhat surprising to find that in popular politics in the United States, Britain, simply because it had a Labour government, was then perceived as a weak link in the Western alliance. If you come down to the realities of the situation, you see that it's in fact British policy that is actually more consistent through the 1940s in taking a firm line in opposing Soviet expansionism. And Cripps, for all his previous sympathy with the Soviet Union, is firmly in support of the line of a government of which he's a leading member. America's astounding capacity for production kept Britain well supplied during its darkest days following the Battle of Britain and supplemented their renewed manufacturing throughout the rest of the war. And now, very suddenly, the lend-lease program, that booned to Allied nations throughout the war, ends. America turns off the tap and stops the flow of resources into Britain. Not only that, they send the bill. Over one billion pounds to be paid back over a 50-year period. As America is entering a post-war boom in prosperity, Britain is withering under its immense debt and damaged infrastructure. Three-quarters of a million homes damaged or destroyed. One-third of gold reserves spent. Food rationing becomes more stringent than it had been during the war. Coal, an absolute necessity for providing Britain with heat and manufacturing, is scarce. We shall only get it right if we can produce much more than we did before the war. That's the only way we can get the things we need. Food, clothes, entertainment, a little less struggle to live, a decent home and warmth. We want color in our lives, better education for the kids, bigger pensions for the old people and all the rest. No doubt we are in a bit of a tough spot and it will take a year or two to get out. But we've done it before and we can do it again. And while the post-war situation is tumultuous for the common people, it's a windfall for the Allied militaries. Germany's defeat sees its treasure trove of technological secrets scatter for anyone looking to pick up the pieces. The Allied nations rush into German territory to recruit the top scientists and to integrate these advancements into their own country's technology. Russian forces lay their hands on the Reich Air Ministry in Berlin and the many secrets within it. Swept wings, rocket power, and the jet engine. With this information, they can make a vast leap ahead and finally begin to catch up to the Western powers. And since the pre-war days, when Stalin assessed his nation to be 50 to 100 years behind Western technology, the Soviet Union has been making great advancements. One Soviet manufacturer, the Mikoyan-Goryevich Design Bureau, has been creating aircraft since 1940, establishing a solid reputation for creating fighter planes. Their first post-war design, the MiG-9, is powered by a copy of the captured German BMW 003 engine. As early jets go, it has a fairly conventional design, an all-metal fuselage with straight wings. For their second generation jet aircraft, they'll be incorporating some new ideas in aerodynamics. But for all the advancements that they'd like to implement, the power plant is not up to snuff. The German jet engine that the Russians discover has its flaws. The axial flow system, while powerful, is difficult to maintain. Engines quickly burn out and must be replaced. Their short lifespans plagued German ground crews throughout the war, and though the Soviets pursue the creation of their own jet engine based on this technology, they find themselves facing the very same problems the Germans had. Germany's most advanced jet engine design is proving difficult to perfect. The new airframe designs that Mikoyan-Gorgevich are creating will need something more advanced and reliable than the adapted German engine. To keep up with Western development, Russia will need a centrifugal flow jet engine, like Frank Whittle has developed in England. While not as powerful as the axial engine, it's reliable and has been a prudent performer. Rolls-Royce has continued to make developments using Whittle's ideas, and currently have the Neen II engine, which despite its great power, has only thus far been used in prototypes of the Hawker Seahawk and the failed supermarine attacker. Without an advanced jet engine, Russia's aircraft development will be at a standstill. The Soviet aviation minister Mikhail Khronichev and designer Alexander Yakalev suggest to Stalin that they purchase more advanced engines from another country. Stalin scoffs at Khrunichev's idea. What fool will sell us his secrets, he asks. Despite knowing that his men will fail on their journey to purchase this technology, Stalin allows the trade mission to go ahead. MIG's Artem Mikoyan, engine designer Vladimir Klimov, and others travel to England to tour Rolls-Royce's plant and to see other British aircraft developments. When the trade mission lands in London, they find a socialist government ready to embrace them. There's still much goodwill afforded to Russia, still seen by British eyes as an ally in the noble war against Nazi forces. That, and post-war England, needs money. The Soviet delegation tours the Rolls-Royce plant and are shown their latest engine developments, the Derwent and the Neen. They ask to purchase several of each. When the order comes across the desk of a Ministry of Supply employee, he warns Minister John Wilmot against selling the Soviets the technology. Britain is the absolute leader in jet engines, Russia is at least five years away from similar developments. Selling them one of the nation's greatest achievements would be, as Stalin has said, foolish. But the sale is pushed through by the President of the Board of Trade, Sir Stafford Cripps. I think it was a socialist move to a socialist government, or the Stalinists before, of course, at the beginning of World War II. But here I think this was going beyond the call of duty after the end of the war. And it certainly hurled them straight into the Premier League in aviation. Despite a distrust of Stalin after his time in Moscow, Krips sees the world breaking into two spheres of influence and wants to bring those sides together. Not only that, the sale means a good deal of money for Rolls-Royce at a time when big contracts are hard to come by. Cripps even offers to allow the Soviets to build the engine themselves under licence. The circumstances of the sale of the Rolls-Royce engines to Russia can't be divorced from Britain's economic predicament after the war, with a desperate need to increase exports. Cripps, as President of the Board of Trade, was the minister with primary responsibility for British trade. It's only natural, therefore, that he should have wanted to encourage expansion of British trade and opportunities for British exports in every direction possible. And certainly, in 1946, he was taking the view that Russia was a promising export market as far as British manufacturers were concerned. I think it's only natural, given all the circumstances, that he would have wanted to approve the sale of aircraft engines which, after all, at that time, were not regarded as classified or restricted, had not been put under any sort of military ban. And there's frankly no need to seek further for an ideological explanation of his decision to approve a deal that he saw simply as being in the British national interest in order to revive British trade. While Krip's actions on the sale may have been honest, the Soviet delegations are less so. Rather than accepting the license, the Russian engine manufacturer Klimov begins to reverse engineer the Nene from the examples they've purchased. The Russians begin producing a version, the Klimov RD-45. But creating a successful engine is proving difficult. England has a long history of metallurgy dating back centuries. Small forges all over the British Isles have developed techniques to create strong metals from ores and minerals found throughout the empire that are perfect at handling the high stresses and heat associated with the power of a jet engine. Russian metallurgy is not nearly as advanced, and they find this one of their main stumbling blocks in duplicating the engine. The Nene can run 500 hours between overhauls, but the Klimov copy doesn't last more than a hundred. They increase the size of the combustion chambers and turbine and refine the alloys used to create the engine. This new model is known as the Klimov VK1. With the engine ready, they can now finalise designs. In April of 1947, the Council of Ministers issue a decree ordering Mikoyan-Goryevich to build two prototypes of a new jet fighter. One that will put the Soviet Union ahead of the field in aircraft design. The Boeing B-29 has been America's front-line bomber since the final year of World War II. It's a revolutionary leap ahead of other aircraft, with its pressurized cabin and computer-assisted gun turrets. And now that the United States has the atomic bomb, the Soviet Union needs the future capabilities to defend against a bomber entering their territory with one of these tremendous weapons. The Council of Ministers wants an interceptor for just such a situation. Mikoyan-Goryevich looks back at their earlier aircraft to see any lessons they can learn. Their experimental Canard plane, the MiG-8, had swept wings, a feature that they are interested in exploring further. Some captured German designs, like the TA-183 Huckebein, had swept wings implemented as well. Their latest jet, the MiG-9, has been promising and they used this as the base to build from. Its engine troubles have been solved with the Klimov engine in place of the BMW power plant. It will also receive newly designed wings swept back at an angle of 35 degrees. After some additional refinements, this new creation, the MiG-15, has a top speed of over 650 miles per hour. Though early production aircraft have a tendency to roll, these problems are lessened by adding aerodynamic trimmers near the ailerons and rudder. It's also recommended that pilots stay below Mach 0.9 to lessen any other stability problems. Test combat trials are conducted with a captured B-29 as well as the Soviet copy, the Tu-4. To shoot down the superfortress, the MiG-15 is armed with two 23mm cannons and a single 37mm cannon. In 1949, production stops on the MiG-9 and the MiG-15 enters the Soviet Air Force. June 25, 1950. North Korean troops cross the 38th parallel into South Korean territory. By July 5, American forces have joined with the South Korean army. The United Nations also enters the fray under the guise of a police action. Soon, the conflict escalates beyond a ground war when the US calls for strategic bombing with its B-29s. In addition, piston-engine fighters like the Mustang and the Corsair left over from the Second World War are joined by the jet-powered Gloster Meteor and the F-80 Shooting Star. With the South Korean forces bolstered by UN support, North Korea also looks outside its borders for help. In October, Chairman Mao Zedong of China, fearing that a US occupation of the Korean Peninsula would eventually lead to war with his country, sends a volunteer army into the fray. The North Korean and Chinese leaders ask Stalin for help, and while the Soviet dictator is unwilling to send in ground forces, he does provide aircraft in the form of the MiG-15 jet fighters, painted in Chinese colours to mask Soviet involvement. Soviet pilots are sent to train North Korean and Chinese airmen how to fly the fighter jets. They are taught simple Chinese phrases and dressed in Chinese uniforms and sent into the skies to combat and shoot down B-29s and engage the UN fighter forces. The piston engine planes like the Mustang and the first generation straight wing jets are no match for the abilities of the MiG-15. It's faster and can fly higher and longer than any of its opponents. The Soviet victories come fast and often. The American pilots use their years of dogfighting experience to counter the superior technology at their enemy's disposal, but it's not always enough. Soon, B-29s are forced to limit their bombing runs to night time. The first sighting of the MiG-15 in the Korean War I think had the same impact on pilots that as did the first sighting of the Focke-Wulf 190 just after the Battle of Britain when it appeared in Europe and we had nothing really, to compare with it for the next year. Its success was due to two factors, one was the jet engine they had, the Nien, and the second one was of course the data they had got from the captured German sources on the sweepback, wing sweep back. So it was a twin contribution if you like. Soviet air superiority begins to change in December of 1950 with the arrival of an all-new fighter aircraft for the American forces, the F-86 Sabre. First developed as the straight-winged FJ Fury jet, its design has has changed to incorporate 35-degree swept-back wings and automatic slats. The Sabre is not a leap ahead of the Soviet jet, but it does level the playing field. The discovery of an advanced British engine in the fuselage of a Russian-designed plane infuriates the Americans. This is not the first time the Soviets have made a huge leap ahead in military technology. The August 1949 detonation of Russia's first atomic bomb showed just how far they could advance technologically in a few years with some outside help. First Klaus Fuchs, a German-born scientist brought in by England to work on the Manhattan Project has been arrested for providing the Soviet Union with atomic bomb designs, and at the moment, Donald Maclean, a high-ranking British Foreign Ministry official, is suspected by the FBI of providing the Soviets with a variety of information. As the British representative on the American, Canadian and British Atomic Secrets Council during the war, he's had access to nuclear secrets at a time when the quest for the bomb was known only to a few. It's in the autumn that UN forces finally get their hands on the MiG-15 and discover the secret of its power plant. It's confirmed when two men are dropped behind enemy lines to a crashed MiG-15, dug into the ground. No chance to remove the entire wreck, they use grenades to separate the engine. The Americans are livid. How could England have handed over a piece of powerful technology to Stalin's regime? But they have little time to blame Sir Stafford Cripps for selling the engines to their enemies. He's been retired for close to a year due to failing health. In October, Winston Churchill's conservatives edge out the Labour Party, knocking Attlee out of government. Churchill, as Prime Minister once more, makes Anglo-American relations a priority again, and with him back in power, there's little chance that the Soviets will find any socialists to sell them other technology. In the northwest of Korea, in an area along the Gyeolo River, the first large-scale jet versus jet air battles of history take place in an area dubbed MiG Alley. When the Sabres reach MiG Alley, they have only 20 minutes of fuel to engage the enemy with. The MiG-15s, with their bases nearby, can linger much longer. American pilots charge in at 40,000 feet, only to find the MiG-15s flying 10,000 feet above them. The MiGs hide in the sun's glare, then swoop in as a formation of sabres are on patrol. The Russian fighter does have its share of weaknesses. The cannons it's equipped with, while powerful, have a low rate of fire compared to the Sabre's guns. It also has poor stalling characteristics. A Sabre pilot can force a MiG-15 into a dive that becomes a spin that cannot be recovered from. The combat experience of the United Nations pilots ultimately trumps the sophistication of the Soviet plane. By war's end, the UN forces have shot down 900 enemy aircraft, almost 800 of which are MiG-15s. But the aircraft has proven that the Soviets can use a blend of ingenuity and craftiness to match the West's innovation. Between the USSR, Czechoslovakia, Poland and China over 16,000 MiG-15s are produced. In 1958, Rolls-Royce Deputy Chairman Whitney Strait is touring a factory in China when he sees an engine curiously similar to the Neen. Discovering that its origins lie in the reverse engineering of the Neen, he attempts to collect payment for the almost 50,000 engines that Klimov made by taking and adapting the design and licensing it to other countries for the MiG-15 and later aircraft. Two hundred million pounds is the compensation he is looking for. He leaves without one farthing. The man whose decision led to the jet engine being copied, is long since gone. Sir Stafford Cripps dies in April of 1952, in the midst of the Korean War. And while he is remembered mainly for his contributions to Britain's war effort and the post-war cultural shift, he will forever be tied to the MiG-15 by that one decision. Cripps has always been, to a large extent, the prisoner of his own reputation, but it was a reputation that shifted over time. In the 1930s his own high principles led him to take a very extreme political position on the far left of the political spectrum, arguing that only full-blooded socialism or even communism could offer an answer to the economic problems of the day. By the 1940s, Cripps's position is quite different from what it had been ten years previously. It took people, quite naturally, some time to catch up with the rather rapid evolution through which he'd gone. An evolution which is often overshadowed in aviation circles by this gift to Russia. A decision that may have been motivated by all the right reasons, but strengthens the might of the Soviet military for years to come. Aviation, the art of aeronautics, began with the dreamers, inventors and daredevils who dared to defy gravity. The journey of aviation was nurtured by pioneers like the Wright brothers, whose first flight marked a historic milestone. The role of aircrafts in world wars was groundbreaking, dramatically changing warfare strategies. This initiated a technological evolution in aviation, transforming the simplistic wings of a biplane into the thunderous roar of jet engines. Let's journey through the ages of aviation. Behind every great aircraft, there were great minds. These visionaries, like Sir Frank Whittle, the innovator of the turbojet engine, redefined air travel. Then there's Skunk Works' Kelly Johnson, the genius behind the SR-71 Blackbird. His designs combined speed, stealth and power, crafting machines that dominated the heavens. The contributions of these pioneers have left an indelible mark on the canvas of aviation, shaping the course of history and inspiring generations of engineers and aviators. Each epoch in aviation history gave birth to extraordinary aircrafts, each with their own unique features and roles. The Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird was a marvel of speed and stealth. The F-105 Thunderchief, a supersonic fighter bomber, was vital in the Vietnam War. The P-51 Mustang, a long-range fighter, was critical in World War II. The P-47 Thunderbolt, a heavyweight fighter, was used extensively in the same war. The A-10 Thunderbolt II, the Warthog, is a close air support icon. The Messerschmitt Me 262 marked a leap forward in aviation technology. Each of these game changers were instrumental in their eras, and their legacies still resonate today. Beyond the game changers there are those that have transcended their practical roles to become icons. The Concorde was not just an aircraft, it was a supersonic symbol of luxury and speed. The B-52 Stratofortress, a strategic bomber, is an icon of power and resilience. These magnificent machines, and others like them, have become much more than just aircrafts. They are enduring icons that encapsulate the audacious spirit, the relentless innovation and the boundless ambition that define the world of aviation. For more amazing aerial footage and to join us in this incredible journey, check out the Dronescapes YouTube channel. If you enjoyed this video, please remember to like and subscribe. And as always, thank you for watching. And as always, thank you for watching. So So you