Hello, I'm Mike and in this video what it is let's dive into the very basics. It's an AI powered code editor. Meaning no longer do you need to write out You can create things It's so easy. So first of all, let's start And once we've downloaded the application, the magic installer on whatever And we'll be ready to go. And there you go. Now you've downloaded for free You can double click and open cursor command plus or Control plus on a PC So you can see what I'm doing. It's as easy as opening a folder. Now these are folders You can create a new one for a new project just that. I'm going to call it tutorial. Create that folder and then click open. And this will take you Let's get into go over to the left Now you need to name this file and In this tutorial I'm going to use Python So to get started, you type in main dot pi and this will be your first file Main.py is a great place to start, that and then you can get started I'm going to hit and K to bring up the chat This is where I can give to write my first line of code, Write code to print. Hello world! Really easy right? And I can choose different AI models, presently to be the best. Click generate and it's going to Well, it didn't take long to write Print hello world! Now we can actually give this a try by clicking the play And you'll see right down there. It's printed. Hello World on my screen. Now I want to edit command k on my keyboard So in this case from my instructions Hello world in rainbow colors. Okay. As you can see, quite a bit more code compared Now you'll see in red, it's And in green these are So if I'm happy, I'm going to click accept or hit Command This has given me new code. Now I can try to run this by hitting play I've got an error. So how do I fix that? Well, I can either go ahead and look in the file something underlined in yellow. Meaning this is a package to add an extra feature It's also highlighted here by the file one thing is missing Now if I want to do it the AI way, I do, I can actually go to this error. Click on it and you'll see And I can click debug with AI. It's going to open up a chat window. It's going to look through my code. And it's going to tell me Because I haven't got this installed So I just click run from the AI window It went ahead and installed the package And now you can see my file has turned back And that term color indicating everything should work. If I hit the play button. So let's for the moment, and we'll hit play up in the top right. And whoa, look at that. It's printed out Pretty incredible right? This is a very brief introduction If you want to get my full Cursor It's in my community and you can join Okay. Let's look at advanced This is a really exciting feature And it's going to supercharge your To access it. First of all, you need to make sure it's enabled And you want to look for features. And you want to make sure It's down here. Make sure that is ticked as enabled With that all done, you can hit command And it usually appears down here So to move it, you hit command D next to your chat box. Now let me show you the power of Cursor So again we've got our main.py as the I want to make it even fancier colors displayed, What is a Readme file? It basically explains exactly for other users who've maybe not seen So we'll just enter this prompt So it's going ahead. It's going to edit Main.py first of all. And if I hit tab I can open and see it Like that tab back Now it's going to go ahead And it's also creating my Readme file. So you can see how powerful this is. It can create multiple files with you If you're creating a complicated app. This is going to be super powerful. Now it tells me what it's done. It's updated the content on Main.py. It's created a new file called color Now of course, before or I can go ahead and I can see And you can see in the code here I can look over at Color Record, and it's doing the color And then I've got the Readme file, that will show how this works. If I'm happy with all that. I'll click accept all and I'll get rid of this box Now the Readme is written which essentially is a code You can see how it's all nice here, but here, we can actually get a preview It looks a lot more human Explains what it does, the requirements and run it, and also the dependencies It's really handy to create a Readme file, Composer can do that for you. Now we've got the color recorder, and we've got our main file here, which and see how close Okay. So we've got our rainbow animations, and we've got a new text file that's being created here, which will be So once this completes and spiral animation, because the composer updated my code I can go ahead and I can open a file statistics for each of those animations pretty cool. And this was done. This is advanced. My app along using Cursor Composer. So now you've seen the power of Cursor Let's use it to create a pretty simple app from scratch If you're enjoying what you see so far, and subscribe to my channel for more stuff Now for this, and I'm going to go ahead And this time Okay. Click open. And this is a brand new workspace I'm going to again make it bigger And I'm going to open And here it is over in the right. Now another way to access composer God mode is control or command shift Why it's screen over here. And it'll also show you the composer So if you're talking to it multiple times, you can also create If you want to brainstorm storm ideas But let's start first of all just So bear in mind I haven't written any code yet. Now I'm going to paste in my prompt, YouTube videos and creates posts about them using the OpenAI API. So, rather advanced multi-layered app Let's I'll hit enter and away it will go. Okay, it's breaking my project down, and then it's going ahead and creating This is pretty incredible, isn't it? It knows exactly what it needs. And now it seems to have completed So it's created requirements config, YouTube fetcher, OpenAI generator, I didn't ask for. And main.py, So let's accept all right here. And then we'll get out of composer Now it's actually giving me information It's giving me a one, two, So it's a little more complicated I have to actually do a few things So the first thing I need to do is install the requirements And if I actually try to run this command And none of my files are yellow, meaning Now I've got a couple of other steps, but let's see what happens and click the play button to run this app, Now you can see, as expected, it's credentials right here. Okay. And this is actually what step Set up a dot env file in the project root Now, in this instance here, And I think the composer So I'm going to re prompt So I need to give less API keys So I've written. Remove the need for YouTube They exist on YouTube, Also remove Twitter Just output the three posts instead for the user to copy and paste, It's going to have a little think about it Okay. And it said certainly it's updating all the files And it's giving me new, I'm going to accept all the changes I just trust because compose it. So accept all and that's done. And again it's giving me a one, two, So first update your dot env file. Okay. Well I don't have one of those. So over here I'll click the new file You see there And now I can actually copy Okay. You can see here Well, I can get that and going to view page source And then here it's a load of gobbledygook, or control F to find. And then I'm looking for channel And you'll see right next to that. That is my channel And then I'll paste my channel Very very simple. Now what about that OpenAI API key. Well, it's different But I know with OpenAI to platform.openai.com and clicking You create a new secret key here Why not. Simple as that. I'm going to give it all permissions in my default project Now don't worry, I'll revoke this key so it'll no longer be active, And then I'll simply go ahead and paste Okay, there it is. It's in there. And again I can hit command or control And I think we've pretty much fulfilled I've got one yellow file here. Yes I need to install the requirements. It's got one more requirement for me. So let's run this from my terminal It's downloading the new requirement Everything should work. Now I can either run this command or I can simply click the play button So play button is up there. Or I can simply put this command in here So let's go ahead and do that. Wow. And look at that right there Look for all my latest videos. Fantastic. Excellent stuff Now, if you're enjoying what you see so And also AI basics course that you can follow It's up in my community and you can join Now, maybe I want to add Let's hit Command Shift And I'm going to call this front end the command line. And I'd like this to run So let's create that. And now I can type my thoughts I would really I think it would be cool to show all posts in a card with a copy button, and each one. Okay, so this is my front end notepad. Now I can go ahead and we can actually tag So let's do at front end. And there are my notes. So I'm tagging my notes that I've written Let's make this happen. Hit enter and away the Composer will go Okay. Quite a lot of changes, all the changes and cross out of this It's missing for instance, I tried to run this as it Now we can again debug with AI and it's going to tell me And even if I'm lazy, It's installing Pretty much as simple as that. And now if I hit play. It's actually starting up a brand new server for me, which I can command and click to access It's just taking a moment to load up. And there we go. Generated posts now in a nice web And I can click copy. from my newly generated app. Go over to X command V to paste it My app is complete, fully functional Here you go. That brings this quick tutorial to an end. I hope you found it extremely helpful. And you feel like now, without knowing a single line of code, I to make the app, the website, Now if you'd like to get further I do actually have a Cursor and you can join it and try it