-Hold on! Hold on! Hold on! -This is my favorite -- Her sister was a witch! Right?! And what was her sister?! The Wicked Witch [ Woman laughing ] -I'm gonna stab him. and you're gonna tell me Am I wrong?! -She wore a crown and she came -I'm not fighting with you. -I'm not fighting with you. -Get educated! - Elphaba - Elphaba - I'm a witch -Cynthia Erivo, welcome back! We love you. They love you. Thanks for coming back You look fantastic. -You are very talented, and I'm going to get to all the Singing, acting. But last time you were I don't know I asked you about whistling. -'Cause you said, &quot;Oh, and then you whistled, Everyone's like, I've ever heard of my life.&quot; Did -- did you -- did -Yeah. -It was very strange I just do it in my house. and when, you know, I'm going So it was never, -No, it wasn't a big buildup I just -- I hate to put -Yeah. but we always -Okay. -I'll demo. I'll do a demo. What did you do last time? -&quot;I'll Be Home for Christmas.&quot; All right, maybe -- -I'll try &quot;Somewhere Over the Rainbow.&quot; [ Cheers and applause ] [ Whistling to the tune of -Are you -- Come on! No, that's what That's what I'm talking about! That feels -- -Now that is amazing. I can take the mic. Thank you for doing that. That's phenomenal. -That's normal for you. -That's you walking around -Yeah. I just... -Thank you. we were gearing up -Yes. -That's the last time. And now it's finally &quot;Wicked&quot; is here. -Yeah. [ Cheers and applause ] You're amazing. Are you feeling good? -I feel really, really good. a little feedback from people I think I'm how wonderful people have been and how open people have been It's really special. -I think when you first -- I think it was set -Yes. getting cooler and better, and people were like, -Yeah. It's a spectacle. You and Ariana Grande crush it. -It's unbelievable. When you're auditioning and they go, &quot;Well, your audition for this,&quot; how do you feel, What goes through your mind? -I start running around like a boxer and learning all the songs I already knew a lot before I was asked to come in, because I learnt the music So it was -- it's always And then I just -- made sure I knew -What was the audition like? -Crazy. It was the only audition I had, so I -- I did -- So I worked with And I learnt the songs, -Three hours. -Were you exhausted? by the end of it. I was in bed four days with 104 fever. -Yeah, no, I was... I mean, I've been next to you. You've been on a show But I've seen you sing. because I had sung at the I had done a concert And then the audition -And were any of the actors that you were screen-testing -No. -No. going to be working with Ariana? -Not until I knew I was -No. [ Laughter ] -And did you guys -No. We'd never met. -Yeah. What did it feel like? So, when we knew I invited her over and we just sat on my floor and It was really easy. -She's fun. -You're fun. -Yeah. And then when did -Oh, Jon invited us for dinner, and Stephen Schwartz was there, and started playing for us, and our voices worked, -You just looked at each other -&quot;Oh, this is gonna work.&quot; -&quot;This is gonna be great.&quot; -Yeah, it does work. And you were so stunning And I go, &quot;Oh, my gosh.&quot; But with the green skin &quot;How are you doing this?&quot; You just pull it off. -Thank you. Wait till you see it. Obviously, that's And that was the very last scene -That was the very last And it was -- [ Chuckles ] -- because of the the strike. -That's right, -So we went away. -And then, I had to come back, and that was the very last thing -But the pressure -- I don't know why -- I would start Get it out of the way, Let's do that,&quot; All the pressure. And then you're on wires. -Yeah. -And you're flying. -Singing live, yeah. There's an NBC special The Curtain Rises on Wicked.&quot; It's on November 19th, Interviews, behind-the-scenes. And then, there's a special -- They're going to show a musical number... -...that you'll have to tune [ Cheers and applause ] -It's -- It's... When I -- my mind was blown a little bit It's not all CGI. I mean, when you see it, I would go to IMAX because it's just giant It's massive. But when you're doing this, you probably did --&quot; after the scene, -No, singing live. I want to show -- this is proof. Take a look at this. Cynthia Erivo on set. - As someone told me lately Everyone deserves -How -- That's you. -It looks... -Wait. Are you nervous? -I was nervous the first -- -The first time, The first time, you're like, &quot;Where am I supposed It's not working.&quot; -And then -- then you to concentrate, And I had a wonderful that I knew 'Cause you are being thrown -That was insane, It doesn't look real. -That's definitely me. -That is you going -- -Defying gravity, -I haven't seen that. -That's crazy. -You have to be so proud It's a clas-- it's a classic. -When you do the end I know it from being there was always ads and it's like, &quot;'Wicked.' And then you hear the or whatever that -- That cry. They call it -Battle cry, yes. -No, I did it -Yeah. But did you study? So, when I first auditioned, I did it as was written. -It's like... I can't, yeah. But that thing, I go I know it And I go -- How did you -- Could you -- I'm just saying, we have -- Again, I'm sorry. Why do I make you -Because you love me, -Thank you. All right. That is true. [ Clears throat ] Ah, ah-ah-ah, [ Cheers and applause ] -I mean, come on. That's how you do it! You just -- You're the -- Come on! I want to show everyone a clip! Here's Cynthia Erivo Take a look at this. - Once I'm with the Wizard My whole life will change 'Cause once No one thinks you're strange No father No sister acts ashamed And all of Oz When by the Wizard, And this gift or this curse Maybe at last I'll know why As we work hand in hand The Wizard and I -I mean, come on! [ Cheers and applause ] You put the work in, -Thank you. -Thank you so much. there's one more thing Fandango is providing everyone to see &quot;Wicked&quot; in theaters! That's how you do it! [ Cheers and applause ] That's right! [ Cheers and applause Cynthia Erivo, everyone! Oh, my gosh. We love it -I love being at the show. I missed you. Congratulations on this. But two words. Legend-ary. -Thank you. You are fantastic. -You've got to be so proud But I want to first congratulate You were great hosting on... [ Cheers and applause ] You can do it all. -You were on You can do it all. You did a sketch called Yes. Everyone saw the sketch. Everyone saw it, You're singing an off-key And I was watching. because you singing off-key -Oh. -You know, it was really fun. -Yes, but can you normally -- I mean, -Oh, that's very generous. -Yeah. It was a bit that we found, I pitched it to the writers I said, &quot;Would it be funnier if it got progressively worse -Gosh. It was so good. I was like, &quot;Oh, my gosh.&quot; But then I saw a character -Oh. -Oh, yes. [ Cheers and applause ] Can we zoom in? [ Cheers and applause ] I mean -- I mean, it's -- I don't know why, but this is my favorite thing I just think you're so -- But also the funniest thing -- -Thank you so much. are coming up to you wanting you to sign this photo. -Yeah, with -- They've been coming to the But, I mean, like, I really -- I He's still with me. You know? -I'm still unpacking with my therapist. -With your therapist. -Thank you. Thank you. is that I just -- You can sing. You can act. But you also have a great sense And you know how to do comedy. -Coming from you, thank you. I heard that you had getting Bowen Yang [ Cheers and applause ] We love -- He's great. He's amazing. -He's absolutely brilliant He and Bronwyn James, they're unbelievable together. -I was like, &quot;Bowen, He goes, &quot;Are you kidding me? -Yeah. -I mean, he's phenomenal. -Yeah. [ Cheers and applause ] -We love Bowen Yang. -How did you -- How did you -Well, I didn't -- had anything to do with it. Um, because, you know, Marc Platt and Jon M. Chu were really trying I don't know why I thought I was like, &quot;I'll call Lorne.&quot; -That's everyone's answer. So you called Lorne Michaels? -Yes, I did, and I don't know -Because your family. -No, but it was the You know what I mean? I was realizing in real time that, like, and I have no reason -What did he say? -Well, I was just like, um, And he was like -- What do you want?&quot; [ Laughter ] [ Cymbal crash ] Thank you very much. -[as Lorne] &quot;What do you want? -No, but, um, In that moment, what it takes I was like, &quot;Oh, no!&quot; -No, but I did beg. And he worked it out, between &quot;SNL&quot; to be a part of it, And he just put himself -When you first heard... [ Cheers and applause ] -He's hardcore. -Let's talk about &quot;Wicked,&quot; because I can't imagine You really nailed it. [ Cheers and applause ] -You crushed it. Uh, when you first heard into a movie, uh, immediately, did you start preparing Do you go like, -Yes. I, um -- As soon as I caught whispers or that a movie I started to kind of mentally I just told them, you know, and if they are going to I just want to be so prepared. I want to take all all of the singing lessons. I want to train my voice Like, legit opera. I have to honor this [ Cheers and applause ] -Yeah. You always know -- You're, uh -- I don't want but every time you put the time in, you rehearse, you nail it. I mean, this is a big thing. And I remember how serious -- &quot;Jimmy, I'm diving into this -Well, we were -- we were that's on your number-one -Thank you so much. -When I was going through And I just remember and you being as you always are, here and as a friend And, um -- And, yeah, -You nailed it. What was You're going in -- -No. My God. Thank God. It has to be earned. -Yes! -It's the most important thing. -You know, I tried to -- mentally going into it, &quot;Listen. This is going to end up And as a fan of it, and know that it's going to go But in the meantime, I can to prepare myself for this And, um, I auditioned That was my first audition. -Wow. And then I got called back and And then I did screen tests And it was like -So much goes into -- Because you're really singing. I mean, you and Cynthia Erivo. -Yeah. Cynthia Erivo, everyone. Great chemistry. When did you find out Cynthia -I found out -- to tell me that I had the part, That was the first one. -And then they told me opposite Cynthia Erivo, and that was And then I died and I'm dead. And I'm still dead. You're still -- -No. Yeah. -I mean, I've just been for such a long time. -Powerhouse. opposite her and also just has been such And I'm so grateful I can't... -You really worked -- You know, I told you I was just in awe. Man, Only -- Only you can do this You're funny. You're gorgeous. It's everything. And it's so Yeah. By the way, I got those jokes. You nailed all the jokes. -Oh, yes! that you haven't shown -No. [ Cheers and applause ] I know! Alright. What are we going to see here? -Yeah, so this is that I rehearsed where I'm swinging around And what happened was, and one of our was standing in the room that I didn't break And, um, um, really stoically and my foot just kind of -Oh, my God! Alright. Good. -He just kind of, And then you get to see genuine reaction the first time And all of it Please let me know. -Yeah, let's -- Take a look at this. Alright. You're going up. -You're grabbing the thing. - Follow my lead [ Cheers and applause ] I still have brown hair. Watch the foot. He's like, &quot;Ugh-eeeee!&quot; Ohh! Ninja! -And now -- And now... Please look at Cynthia Erivo. -Cynthia's like, &quot;What in This is exactly -- This is exactly what This is gonna be a fun movie.&quot; Playing Glinda in &quot;Wicked&quot; is kind of a full-circle moment We came across There was a local production and here is a young Ariana -Yes. -Oh, my goodness. -Yeah, Toto is doing a good job, -Human Toto. Wow! Everyone thought it was -- Yeah, that's real method acting. -Beautiful. -I auditioned I didn't get it. -But also, I noticed -- when I looked at this article, your name here is -Yes, indeed. -And when I was watching and everyone was clapping, which hadn't been seen before, -Yeah. -Well, um, I feel like, um, this whole experience was to that, to this girl in And, um, you know, I saw the show, and I -- -Yeah. -That's my name. So it just feels to little Ari in certain ways. And that's a lot It's sort of taking and grabbing its hand &quot;We might have gotten but I've got you now, we're going together, so...&quot; [ Cheers and applause ] You've been all over the world I mean, Australia, -Yes. and you're crushing it. What's the reaction? -I mean, And I think to me and to Cynthia and Jon just because we are those fans -Yeah, I know. and given the opportunity to the movie version and breathe while also trying between honoring and then telling it -I saw a great photo of you and Idina Menzel who, uh... I'm so psyched that a nice photo together. -Have they -- -They have. -Yeah, they have seen it. -Idina and Kristen -I have to ask. Are we going to see more acting? -I would -- I would love to. I don't want to -- I'm like -- I'm very scared when I talk about this and being on stage will always So that will always -- We'll always have that together. But I just -- I really do yeah, I would love for that. [ Cheers and applause ] -I think you should. Here's Ariana Grande Take a look at this. -Which of you would volunteer to share a room... -Oh. Madame Morrible, um... -Thank you, dear. That is very good of you. -What? -Miss...? -Elphaba. You can room with Miss Glinda. -[ Gasps ] -Now go. Go! And you... Come with me. -Not you. You. -Tour de force. Ariana Grande, everyone! -Wait, wait, wait, wait! Wait, wait, wait, wait! I have something for Jimmy. 'Cause you're always -- You're always so generous and you're always celebrating I wanted to bring you this. You don't have [ Cheers and applause ] What is going on? [ Laughing ] Oh, my God. Thank you. This is... -I love you! -I love you so much. You're the best. &quot;Wicked&quot; is in theaters Who better to play the That's what I say. I mean, when you -- do you go, &quot;Oh, I have to. I have to do this. Well, Jon M. Chu. He knows how to do it. -He's one of my faves. &quot;Crazy Rich Asians.&quot; -&quot;In the Heights&quot; was great. To turn a musical And he has this time Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo. -Oh, my goodness! I can't think of anyone else. -Both blow your mind. -Absolutely. I think on all the -- there's a curse who have ever been in &quot;Wicked&quot; that it's been since Because, you know, when John Travolta said &quot;Adele Dazeem.&quot; He mis-said -- I thought, &quot;Oh, John Travolta. It's a curse. It's a curse. I myself was introducing who is in this movie. I called her Michael York. I said, &quot;Here she is. And then -- And then -- -He's also a great actor. -Oh, so great. I said, &quot;Here he is. Why I said that... -You think you'd say [as Jimmy Stewart] -I know. I love you for that. And then Cynthia Erivo -- Why did I say that? -I did. Ariana Grande. And then I corrected -[ Laughs ] Adrian Zmed. -&quot;Dance Fever.&quot; -Oh, that's Deney Terrio. But then I said, &quot;And me. My own name I got wrong -That's unbelievable. Drive safely.&quot; -But I have to say You met Ariana Grande -I didn't know that. -She told me this halfway She said -- That's her. I was doing this thing -- I was doing this play &quot;The Pillowman,&quot; and she, with her mom, Joan, -&quot;Pillowman&quot; is -- -Yes, exactly. Martin McDonagh. Yeah, yeah, yeah. With Michael Stuhlbarg and -Yes! -So you met Ariana -- you're working and -- -Oh, my God. No. Ariana Grande -Both. Yeah. I mean, you sing up a storm. They rock the house. They're deeply gifted. I said, What happened?&quot; Gifted. But they work. They've worked craft-wise -Just amazing. -Amazingly. You know, 99% -They put the work in. -They were all devoted Stephen Schwartz's music. -Get ready to see these -- If you're a fan of Cynthia Erivo get ready -- They take it to the next level. Because I know you have but there's a bunch of statues There's a lot of Jeff Goldblum carved features -'Cause I'm the Wizard, yeah. -No. They had the great -- the production designer, and Oh, no, we couldn't get sticky No, there have been, you know, But Wes Anderson, after &quot;Life Aquatic There was a big -- Bill Murray and I were and we had big paintings And he said after the fact, &quot;You know, I have this thing. I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; It's enormous. Hopefully presented -Do you really have it? If you ever go to [ Cheers and applause ] -There's a special -- There's a special on NBC It's at 10 p.m. It's called &quot;The Curtain Rises It's behind the scenes and also a -- they're of an actual scene No spoilers, and everything goes in isn't really CGI effects. They really built the -- They planted 9 million tulips, and they have -- Yeah. You're not -- That's right. -Yes. NBC. Sing the three notes. -[ Hums NBC tones ] -I buzzed in. [ Both hum NBC tones ] -Okay. What song in &quot;Wicked&quot; uses those same three notes -[ Hums NBC tones ] - One fine day One fine day Wow! It's all meant to be. Come on. You are just perfect. I'm so happy that -So happy. Come back whenever. I want to show a clip. in &quot;Wicked. -Thank you, Jimmy Fallon. -Who are you -Elphie. Say something. -What am I supposed to say? -Say something. -Say something! -My name is Elphaba Thropp... Your Awesomeness. And this is... -Elphaba? Is that you? [ Whirring ] Elphaba Thropp? A man. -Elphaba Thropp? You made it. Uh, sorry about all that. -Come on! The clip got applause That doesn't happen! Jeff Goldblum making history! &quot;Wicked&quot; is in theaters Bowen Yang. Proud of you, man. -Thanks, pal. the best performers And this is a giant moment, man. &quot;Wicked.&quot; This is big. -Congratulations. Let's start first You just finished -Oh, wow. That's crazy. -I'm a quarter of the way That's crazy. -That's wild. This past week, here you are -With Charlie. [ Cheers and applause ] -And I look like -- [ Laughter ] -&quot;The Room&quot;? I look like &quot;The Room&quot; guy. -That's so funny. -Do you get nervous doing if you're doing them? I think this is my first time and it's like showing someone, you made of them, you know? It's like, &quot;Here's this really -Yeah, you go, &quot;This is --&quot; But she was totally cool. -So down to do it. She wanted to do Troye. Everyone is like, to get Troye Sivan on 'SNL.'&quot; I'm like, -Yes, he's giant! And I love him. Uh... -That's you and... -That's you and Ariana Grande. Uh, now this -- That's us in -No, it's not. No. called &quot;Charades with Mom.&quot; -And it got a little out But here's what I love Because you guys are friends. -You're friends with She's unbelievable. And you had to do this part you're like, &quot;Should we -Yeah, yeah. -'Cause you guys hate And then that would be -It was a great ending. But, like, we were both too shy, She was like, but, like, and then I texted her later, totally say no -- please say And she was like, But I had to apologize to her because I opened [ Laughter ] I parted my lips too much. And can we all agree? Like, that's... -You don't do that -You went for it. What's wrong with me? -But I love that and you're like, &quot;I'm so sorry!&quot; -&quot;I did not --&quot; But she was She goes... Have you kissed -No. Well, darn, I thought -Yes! I'm sorry. -Yes! It's like when it's a joke, it's like you still -It's acting. -It's acting, it's acting. -I do know that she's a And she actually called Lorne Do you know this? until later, but, yeah, like, with the scheduling. Lorne was like, I was like, &quot;Totally kidding. And so I let the dream go. I was like, That would have been so fun.&quot; And then Ari picked up the phone And then he was like, He's an Arianator, apparently. And if, like, your boss isn't get Ariana Grande on the horn, -Yeah, she'll fix it for you. When did you get a chance Was it a big premiere? You're so good in it. -You got to be really psyched -I saw it for the first time When Ari came to host, they did, like, And I wasn't going to go &quot;I don't want to watch it a big group around my co-workers And so I was like, But then I thought, the day of, My first trip to New York City, I begged my parents We couldn't afford tickets, but I begged them to go just like, look at the lobby and, like, And the same day we came we came here to take And I was like, &quot;I got to be and it's the univer-- Like, sometimes And so I was like, &quot;I have to and I'm so glad I did. Everyone, go see it, please! -Oh, my God. You were -- you were We all know how funny you are. And you can -- But, man, Bowen, You can dance, buddy. You're great in this film! -Oh, thank you. -I was like, It's the first thing because I saw you the other day. You saw me the other day, and And I'm like, &quot;No, No, it's crazy! It's crazy It's nuts. And then, those lines, -Those were mostly improvised. -Ooh, I felt a little Bowen -- -A little Bowen Yang magic -But no! I was like, &quot;I'm not gonna This is a perfect script. I'm not gonna ruin But then -- But then, on every -- Jon M. Chu, the director, was like, Now do one just you. Like, just something like, off the cuff and ad-lib.&quot; And I was like, And then, this man pulled He used every single ad-lib. He knows what's up. I am so sorry have to see me say -Oh, it's so good. It gets giant laughs at -Oh, good. There was a line, though, that did not make it in the film quoted for, that it's not even in the film. -But can you tell everyone Because people in London -People in London had signs. If you listen to my podcast, with Ariana Grande, you'll know. -Whoo! -Your podcast is fantastic. [ Cheers and applause ] It was -- it was the first I run into Glinda. I'm like, &quot;You remember me from She's like, &quot;How have you been?&quot; And I improvised this line. I went, &quot;I've been through. which is, like, not, &quot;I've been through it.&quot; -I've been through. -Yeah. It's a great line. And you save one, you chop one And I -- apparently people -- &quot;I've been through.&quot; What do we do You have to do something Either a comedy special, or -I think there's going even though it's a -It flies by. -It is so beautiful. You have to see it on the because the colors it's so good and well done and tricky and good and -- -It's just so many layers You did a great job. -I want to show a clip. Take a look at this. -Okay. I may have to... this boy knows how to get into And that we just happened Am I right? -Um... -Ew! What even is that? -Glinda? -Huh? -What's the reason? -I know. She always makes me I'd give it away, but... I couldn't. Could I? [ Both laugh ] No. Oh. -Hi. -Whoa! Bowen Yang, everybody! I want to talk to you because I know Is filming done or not yet? I just wrapped last week -I know you can act, all this stuff, but I didn't -Neither did I. When he called me, he says, I really wanted you And, you know, read the script.&quot; Jon Chu is -- I did -&quot;Crazy Rich Asians.&quot; -He is brilliant. So I'm like, &quot;For you? Yes! I read the script. you realize she sings, right?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Uh-huh.&quot; -[ Chuckles ] -You're like, Yeah, yeah yeah, yeah. Then, the next day, and I look at it, I just have two people here and tell you why And it was Ariana and Cynthia. She's like, &quot;It's imperative...&quot; -&quot;...that you come and join us.&quot; -&quot;Imperative&quot; -Yeah, and Ariana Grande, They're both amazing. are like angel -- When you walk on it's like you've gone to heaven. -I feel like that's extra -Oh, no. Hell no. Like, you're not gonna -Oh, no, no. &quot;I'm gonna be Jimmy Fallon.&quot; [ Laughter and applause ] -Yeah, that's kind of [ Applause ]