Hi all. And in this video, I will make an injection -type gas burner . In the future, it will be used to smelt aluminum and make parts for one long-awaited project. This burner will work in tandem with a homemade forge, a video with its manufacture will also soon be on the channel. To whom this topic is not interesting, do not subscribe to the channel to miss it. And so, as a basis, I took the design of an injection gas burner from the book Combustion Devices for Heating and Thermal Furnaces. There, smart people, everything has already been calculated for us and given the optimal dimensions of all the components. For those who need it, I'll leave a link to this book in the description. An important note, all dimensions from this diagram are taken according to the inner diameter of the pipe. For the manufacture I will use ordinary water pipes of 3 different diameters. 20, 27 and 36mm. Before starting work, I ennoble the surface with a coral circle. I cut the blanks of the required length, you can see the dimensions on the screen. You can do this with a grinder, but I will use a band saw. I'll mark up. In order to narrow the pipe, I make longitudinal cuts in it. Closer to the edge of the slot, I expand it with a thicker disk. I tap the resulting petals with a hammer, if the diameter is not reduced enough, I repeat the operation. Similarly, I make a narrowing on the other side. Here, because of the large length of the petals, I use a clamp for crimping. To give the correct shape, I put a head of a suitable diameter inside. When everything is put on potholders, you can start scalding. This is what the part looks like after cleaning the welds. By the way, this part is called a diffuser, it slows down the gas flow. I weld a flame stabilization ring to the diffuser , as well as a piece of pipe called a mixer. From sheet metal 1.2 mm thick I make a confuser. It is convenient to process internal radii with a drill and rasp cutters. If anyone needs a link , I'll leave it in the description. With careful blows, I turn the workpiece into a cone. I weld the confuser to the mixer, for centering, you can also place the head inside. As a damper, it is necessary to choose a washer of a suitable size. I just found the right one. I weld an M10 nut to the washer . The next step in the M10 bolt is to drill a through hole with a diameter of 5 mm. You can perform this operation without a lathe. To do this, clamp the bolt into a drill, and the drill into a vise. I cut an M6 thread in the hole. A standard semi-automatic tip will be screwed in there. The welding tip seemed too long to me and I decided to shorten it. I really liked how these turning plates for non-ferrous metals work. Who needs a link to them, as well as other equipment for the ladies lathe in the description. From the strip 6 * 30 I will make a bracket for the nozzle with a damper. I cut an M10 thread in the hole . In order to bend thick metal, it must be well heated, but if there is nothing to heat, the place of the bend can be cut with a grinder, then bent without much effort, and then the weakened place is brewed. Radius adjustment is also carried out using a drill and rasp cutters made of tungsten carbide. For correct operation of the burner, it is very important to align the bracket accurately. So that the jet and shutter are exactly in the center. After the first tests, it turned out that this faucet was leaking gas around the handle. I replaced it with a special 1/4 inch gas valve. To attach a previously made stud with a jet to it, I also purchased a 1/4 inch coupling. I drill a hole in it to a diameter of 8.5 mm, and then I cut an M10 thread there. Before twisting, I degrease all threaded connections. I will collect everything on an anaerobic sealant. There was no 1/4 inch fitting in the store, so I use a 1/2 inch fitting in conjunction with an adapter. As a jet I use a welding tip with a hole of 0.8 mm. The jet should be flush with the beginning of the confuser. After assembly, it will not be superfluous to check all connections for gas leaks with soapy water. After the manufacture of such a burner, many are faced with the problem of flame separation and its unstable operation. At the same time, when working together with a forge or a flame thrust into some kind of obstacle, this problem does not appear. To solve this problem, it is necessary to drill 6 holes with a diameter of 3 mm at an angle of approximately 45 * in relation to the direction of gas flow in the end of the burner around the circumference . And also make a casing from a pipe of a larger diameter that will protrude beyond the burner by several centimeters. For a tight fit , I machined the seat a little. The burner is ready, it's time to test. I did it mainly for melting aluminum in a forge. Looking ahead, I want to say that she coped with this task. I will show the smelting process in more detail in the next video about the construction of this forge. So if you're interested, subscribe to the channel so you don't miss it. To give a more aesthetic appearance, I decided to paint the burner with heat-resistant paint. Now let's see how a burner without a hearth works. I set the gas pressure to about 1 Atmosphere. It is recommended to ignite the burner with the damper closed. By gradually opening the damper, I increase the air supply. Here you can observe the previously described problem with flame separation and its unstable combustion. Install ring stabilizer and try again. As you can see, the operation of the burner has changed dramatically. Now the flame burns stably and clearly reacts to the position of the damper. During operation, the burner body itself is not heated, heating is observed only in the area of the annular stabilizer. This is where I will end this video. Be sure to write in the comments your comments as well as thoughts on finalizing this burner. Also write in the comments if you would be interested to see the process of melting and casting aluminum. If you liked the video and found it useful, then you yourself know what to do. I will leave all links to products as well as a book about burners in the description. Until then, I wish you all the best and good luck.