- [Andrew Huberman] Welcome where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. [upbeat music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we are talking all In part, we're doing this because of the upcoming which of course, is all about but also because there's showing that having an can impact a huge number both mental health and physical Things like cardiovascular health, things like relationships, things like physical and And these are not small effects. These are very large positive effects. However, in researching this episode, I was completely surprised as to what constitutes an I, I think like many of that an effective gratitude practice simply involves writing down a few things or many things that we're grateful for, or thinking about those. Or really making an effort to somaticize or feel some of the elements of gratitude while writing out that list It turns out that an doesn't resemble that at all. The neuroimaging data, looking at things like inflammatory purely looking at the and short-term effects of an point to a completely different to positively impact health metrics. Fortunately, these are things that we can all do very easily. Some of them were actually fun. You can do them in a variety of contexts. So today we're going to of effective gratitude practices, and we're going to describe what those are and how you can incorporate Before we dive into today's topic, I just want to highlight a particularly interesting set of findings from the literature. This is a study that came out Cell Press journal, excellent journal. It's very relevant to today's topic. In fact, we're going to spend a little bit later in the episode. The study involved having The subjects are all but those subjects are not They're not rounded up in they're in separate rooms or entirely separate or they are actually on separate days. What this study found is listening to the same story, undergo the same variation in heart rate. In other words, the gaps start to resemble one another Now, this is very interesting. This is a coordination of in response to a narrative, And yet when they line up the heart rates of these different people at completely different times, they find that those heart rates map onto one another almost identically. It's really remarkable. We're going to talk about what this means in terms of coordination of and neural circuits in the body, and the organs such as the heart, but also the lungs and and what this means for A key theme that's going to is the distinction between traits, which are kind of pervasive and how we tend to react to different types of circumstances, and states, which are more transient. They tend to, you know, you a state of fear or a state of relaxation. But what this study is that there are specific approaches that any of us can take in order to really rewire such that we are calmer, in certain circumstances, that we are more responsive if that's our goal. So we'll return to how one But I think these results in the sense that they really show that our brain and our because people are listening to the story and the heart rate is changing but that there is what sort of stereotyped In my mind, there was no reason why the results had to be this way. Two people listen to the same story, why should their heart to the same story? Very, very interesting and and story in coordinating our physiology. And this is something Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools And keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is ROKA. ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime and I can tell you that the visual system has a number of important features that allow you to see no matter what environment you're in. So that means if you're in bright sunlight or you go into shadows, you should be able to But many eyeglasses and sunglasses actually short circuit that and make it such that we or if our screen dims, we feel like we can't ROKA eyeglasses and sunglasses have completely solved that problem. In addition, they're very lightweight, so you don't even remember And if you get sweaty, They were actually designed and things of that sort, but So I wear readers at or when I'm driving, I And the aesthetics are really terrific, even though they're so-called 'Cause as many of you know, performance glasses often These sunglasses and eyeglasses that you can wear them anywhere; while cycling, running, but also doing anything If you'd like to try ROKA that's R-O-K-A.com and to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's ROKA, R-O-K-A.com, and enter the code Huberman at checkout. Today's podcast is also brought Inside Tracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better meet your immediate and long-term health goals. I'm a big believer in getting For the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be analyzed from And now, with the advent you can also get insights into your genes and how those affect or and long-term health choices. A big problem with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get the data back and you don't know what Inside Tracker has solve that problem with a very easy to use dashboard, where you get your numbers or your DNA tests, and then it points to nutritional factors, and so forth, that can allow you to bring that are optimal for you. And this is a huge advantage and DNA tests out there. Another feature that Inside Tracker has is their InnerAge test. The InnerAge test shows you and you can compare that And of course, your if not more important than So this is an important number that you can get from Inside Tracker. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman, to get 25% off any of And if you're listening to this during the week of Thanksgiving, 2021, and you live in the United States, you can get a special You can get $200 off 25% off any other package, and you'll get the InnerAge test for free. Again, just go to Today's episode is also Magic Spoon is a zero sugar, grain-free, keto-friendly cereal. Now, I'm not following a What works best for me is to or noon most days, and then to a low carbohydrate snack in the afternoon, and in the evening is That's what allows me to for work, for exercise and so forth, and then to sleep really well at night. That's just what works for me. But it does require I am eating fewer carbohydrates And oftentimes I want a snack, and the snack I want Magic Spoon has zero grams of sugar, 13 to 14 grams of protein, and only four net grams of It's absolutely delicious. I particularly like the frosted flavor 'cause it tastes like donuts. And then I try not to eat donuts. No vendetta against donuts, but it's not really compatible They also have flavors like They're really delicious. Any ideas you have about and foods not being delicious, you have to try Magic Spoon, In fact I'm getting hungry just If you want to try Magic Spoon, you can go to magicspoon.com/huberman Just use the promo code to get $5 off your order. Again, that's magicspoon.com/huberman, and use the code Huberman to get $5 off. Let's talk about gratitude. And to begin, I'd like to of mental and physical health that have been shown to benefit from a regular gratitude practice. There are studies showing that performing a gratitude or even just once a week, a long lasting impact People report feeling even awe for their life experience, simply in response to The key thing is it has to be And we're going to talk about what the right gratitude in just a little bit. But there are additional There are studies showing that can provide resilience it can provide a reframing and resilience to prior So buffering people against the negative physiological effects and psychological effects but also inoculating them in many ways to any traumas that might So that's a powerful thing. And today we will talk about how that's actually accomplished. It's actually accomplished that the fear and defense networks in the brain actually function. And we'll get right down The other thing that a is it's been shown to But not just for the relationship in which you express gratitude, right? So on the face of it, you might think, okay, if I express gratitude over and over, over and over, then I'm going to feel And indeed, that is one effect That's called a pro-social or interstitial social gratitude practice. But there are now several studies, recent studies in good that a regular gratitude one's social relationships in the workplace, at and romantic relationships, and even one's relationship to themselves, which is really what of wellbeing are. So it's clear to me that has an outsized effect of mental and physical health. And for those of you that are coming to this gratitude practice, oh, that's it's going to involve putting and feeling into all the amazing things that you happen to have, even when things are really terrible, that's not where we're going at all. And equally important is to understand that the neurochemical, and the neural circuit mechanisms are equally on par with some of things like high and exercise, and other as kind of more potent So if you are of the mindset is kind of weak sauce, buckle up, because the data actually that a gratitude practice in which you can steer your in positive directions, and that those effects Before we dive into the and scientific studies around gratitude, I'd like to just set the Gratitude is what we call or a pro-social mindset. Now, you can be grateful for something without it involving anybody else. So the social part isn't about interpersonal And today we're going to talk a lot about how interpersonal relations into a gratitude practice But pro-social behaviors or mode of thinking that in interactions with other Now pro-social is not these different tools and They're actually neural that are specifically wired for pro-social thoughts and behaviors. And these are distinctly different from the circuits in the brain that are involved in defensive behaviors. So without getting into too much detail, just yet, we will later, we have circuits in the brain that are what we call appetitive. They are designed to and to bring us into closer relation to the details of that sensory experience. Now that could be a delicious it could be interacting with a loved one, it could be interacting with a friend or anyone that you happen to like, it could even be in your These circuits that we're light up in the brain in neuroimaging, meaning the neurons are more electrically robustly; sort of like turning up the volume on these neural circuits in the brain. And the neural circuits in the brain that are associated with things like backing up things, like covering up the things like a quaking of the voice, all of the things are associated are actually antagonized, when the pro-social So the framework here that I'd like to set is that we have this kind of seesaw of neural circuits in the brain. One set that are to bring us closer to closer to certain sensory Because a lot of pro-social behaviors can also be geared towards or anything that we find and want more of. Whereas the defensive circuits yes, such as areas that but also areas of the brain and body that are literally or with backing up. So the way to think about gratitude is that falls under this which are designed to bring us closer to and to enhance the level of detail that we extract from those experiences. Now, the existence of that I've placed on this sort if you will, runs counter to a lot of that were put forth in the last century about the psychology of versus the psychology of and concern about the future. In fact, I'd like to read and we really should call because despite having certain traits that people criticize him of, Freud was indeed a genius about many aspects of psychology. But I just want to read you And this invokes elements And then you can gauge for yourself. &quot;Our possibilities of happiness by our constitution.&quot; So he's saying that we're basically wired to not have happiness easily. &quot;Unhappiness is much less We are threatened with one from our own body, which is doomed to decay and disillusion, and which cannot even do without pain and anxiety as warning signals. Two, from the external world, which may rage against and merciless forces of destruction. And three and finally, from the suffering of which is perhaps more painful That's Sigmund Freud. And not all of his writings What Freud is referring to there are those defensive circuits. And of course, he talks about And in full disclosure, I am a huge fan of much of the psychological literature and psychoanalysis of Sigmund like Young and others. I think there are strong But he gives you a sense of psychology early in the last century. And then of course, was the emergence of the positive psychology movement, which was really about and eventually the elucidation for things like happiness and things that we are So the field of psychology as and the field of neuroscience We have these what we call And we have parallel pathways in the mind that set us up for or for feeling less good about things. I think what's really salient is that what he's saying is our default is to be concerned about the future, to be wrapped in our defenses, and to some extent that's true. And the reason we can say that's true is because most of us We need to do certain things in order to feel good and to feel happy. We actually have to put work into it. It is quite possible in the way that these pro-social versus defensive circuits are set up, such that because defensive circuits are designed to keep us safe, psychologically and physically safe, that they have more robustness, or they can actually drive I'll give you an analogy in the system that I'm most familiar which is the visual system. In the visual system, we We have neurons in our eye that respond when things in our Literally when the lights go up, these neurons start firing like crazy. And we have neurons in our eye that respond when things get darker, when things start dimming The circuits for detecting and much more numerous than are And that is probably related, probably, to the fact that dark objects meaning incoming objects and is something that's vital to our survival. Whereas being able to perceive might be important to a car lights coming at you at night or something of that sort, but not as often in a or ecological context as So, I think Freud's quote now point to the fact that indeed we have the capacity for happiness for great worry and concern And the neural circuit The key thing for today's discussion is that gratitude turns out to be one of the most potent wedges by which we can insert our thinking, and as you also see, the between these two circuits, and give a little more to the side of the seesaw that's associated with And if you keep imagining what's really beautiful is that if they're performed repeatedly, and not even that often, but repeatedly, then one can actually such that the seesaw that versus defensive behaviors, And the little hinge, if you will, on the seesaw in the in a little tighter when and for wellbeing and is a little bit higher. What this means is that, whether or not Freud was right or wrong, whether or not the neuroscientists in one camp or another we now know with certainty that can shift the pro-social circuit so that they dominate our in ways that can enhance of our physical and So we don't always have to trying to be happy. So the succinct way of saying all this is, yes, indeed, we might be wired or in such that we have for unhappiness than happiness. But gratitude practices provided and they're performed regularly, such that we are happier on average, even when we are not Now I'd like to talk about and neural circuits and pro-social behaviors. Numerous times on this podcast, I've talked about For those of you that might've forgotten or have never heard of neuromodulators are chemicals that are released in the brain and body that change the activity They make certain brain areas and other brain areas These neuromodulators have acetylcholine, epinephrin, and so on. The main neuromodulators and pro-social behaviors Serotonin is released from a very small collection called the raphe, R-A-P-H-E, and a few other places in the brain. And the raphe neuron that we call axons out to And they tend to increase the activity of particular neurocircuits to more approach to particular That makes total sense Have a chemical that under is released in the brain, that triggers the activity that makes the organism, you, more likely to stay in an or even lean in and seek a with that person, place or thing. Beautiful work from a His name is Antonio Demasio. He's a world-class neuroscientists. Has been in the game a very long time. Has explored the so-called And two main brain areas are activated by these serotonergic systems. And when people experience something that makes them feel gratitude, even if it's shallow gratitude or deep, and if it's all the way to deep gratitude, they see activation of these I'll mention in a moment. And the amount of activation scales with how intensely the person experience the feeling of gratitude. And those two areas have particular names. You don't need to know the names, but for those of you that want to know, they are the anterior cingulate cortex and the medial prefrontal cortex. And of course, these to a number of other In fact, that's how they get you or others to lean into certain experiences. Because when these areas are active, certain thought processes get invoked. Those thought processes probably hmm, I'd like to experience more of this, or hmm, this feels really good. And then they literally via the neurons, making you if you're experiencing something you like, or to move closer to something that you find attractive to you literally. So these are powerful circuits. Of these two brain areas, the one I'd like to focus on the most is the medial prefrontal cortex. Many of you have probably heard of the medial prefrontal cortex, because this is the area of the brain that is involved in planning and evaluation of different past, present, or future. It seems actually that of human anything seems to involve the medial prefrontal cortex, or at least one could get that impression just by looking at scientific abstracts and papers these days. So I think it's worth us what is the medial prefrontal How could this one piece that we all have right how could that be involved And the reason it can be involved in so many different things, and the reason it's especially is that medial prefrontal It sets context and it literally defines the meaning of your experience. Now this is not at all I'm going to give a very and then we're going to But I really want everyone to understand, how is it that medial prefrontal cortex sets the context of Well, it does it the following way. You have a number of that simply create some I should say, to perceive Let's use the example of cold exposure, something that we'd sometimes for other reasons. If you were to deliberately it would be uncomfortable, even if you're adapted The discomfort is non-negotiable. However, if you are doing or because you have knowledge that there are particular health benefits, the medial prefrontal cortex can then control areas like the hypothalamus, the neurochemicals that are You'll still get a lot of adrenaline by getting into the ice bath. But the fact that you are and your knowledge that that it's you that's through this discomfort, has been shown to create a very different and positive effect on on things like anti-inflammatory markers, in your immune system, et cetera, compared to if someone or if you are doing it that you do it and you So there's a very subtle distinction here. It's just the distinction or lack of motivation and And there are a number that have been described. In the episode with Robert Sapolsky that I did earlier this last year, he talked about a study in animals, which has also been shown in humans. If you take a mouse for instance, and it runs on a running wheel, which mice really like to do, there are many positive effects improvements in neurochemistry, However, if there's a mouse that's trapped in the running wheel and it has to run every 'cause the wheels are linked, well, then the second the exact same running in their overall health metrics. Blood pressure goes up, stress because it's not actually Medial prefrontal cortex is the knob, or the switch rather, that and allow us to frame it such that it creates And the exact same experience framed as something we don't want to do, or that we are forced to do can create negative health effects. Now how exactly the neurons do that is rather complicated, and frankly not completely understood. But it's somehow able to adjust the activity of other neural circuits that are purely reflexive. As we say, neuroscience, like they're just like switches, So, gratitude is a mindset that activates prefrontal cortex, and in doing so sets the such that you can derive Which leads us to the question; what kind of gratitude practice is going to accomplish this, right? Because it is not simply the don't please, don't do this experiment, and cut my hand and say, oh, you I'm doing this 'cause this is Of course it'll hurt, just like the ice bath But I can't lie to myself, right? If I have some knowledge that that's very hard to override. And so, the medial prefrontal cortex has a tremendous capacity to set context. And it does that beautifully But you can't simply lie to yourself. You can't simply say, oh, is a learning experience, or a terrible thing happens, oh, good, I'm just going to say good, and that your body will react That's a myth. And frankly, it's a myth in the self-help and We have the opportunity on our experiences. But that requires a very We can't simply lie to fake it until we make it. Neural circuitry is very It can be modified and it's but it's not stupid. And when you lie to yourself about whether or not an experience is your brain knows. So what does an effective Well, let's examine what an ineffective, what a poor gratitude practice looks like. Because therein lies some including the fact that I, and I think millions of are doing it wrong. Most gratitude practices and that people talk about involves something like or thinking about five or that you're especially grateful for. And then really trying to really try and think the sensations, the with those particular people, places and things on your list. Most studies actually that style of gratitude practice is not particularly effective in shifting your neural circuitry, or your somatic circuitry, 'cause you literally have that are connected, the circuits of your brain and body toward enhanced activation enhanced activation of these that we were talking about earlier. Now that may come as a and certainly came as a surprise to me. There is some evidence in so-called autonomic arousal during these gratitude practices, these ones that I'm calling ineffective, that they can be made So what do I mean by a Well, very briefly we have a both within our brain and body that we call the autonomic nervous system. It's a little bit of a misnomer because autonomic means automatic. And in fact, we can take control of the autonomic nervous system. It has one branch, meaning and circuits that are associated the so-called sympathetic nervous system, or I should say sympathetic arm of the autonomic nervous system, but that's really a mouthful. It's really associated with for excitement or fear, and it has nothing to do with sympathy. It's just about enhanced alertness. And then the other arm of is the so-called parasympathetic arm of the autonomic nervous system. But that's also a mouthful. So let's just say it's the calming aspect of the autonomic nervous system. So it's associated with decreased breathing rate, et cetera. So we have these two aspects, and it has been shown into a state of heightened meaning more alertness, then the intensity of the in their gratitude practice is enhanced, and the effectiveness of can be enhanced. This is seen nowadays somewhat for instance, cyclic as we call it in my laboratory. Breathing that's very intense so that, inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale very deeply for 25 or 30 breaths. Then people will sit or they'll focus on And they'll write out the things And then they'll really try or they'll think about those things. And it makes perfect sense as to why enhancing autonomic arousal toward more alertness would or more robust impact of because in that state, you are more alert and therefore you are more richness to the perception of what those things on And I should say that there are numerous Sort of self-help type stuff and self actualization seminars. People will do things like cold baths, or they'll do chanting, or they'll have any number all of which are mainly geared towards increased autonomic arousal. There even practices out there using pharmacology to create and then drop into gratitude. Across the board, those of the gratitude practice of or in one's mind or saying them out loud. But somewhat surprisingly, at least to me, that form of just expressing is not the most effective way to shift these pro-social circuits in positive ways for one's physiology and anatomy and psychology. It turns out that the most is not a gratitude practice or express gratitude, but rather where you receive gratitude, where you receive thanks. And this to me was very surprising. There are a number of One in particular that I Prefrontal activation while listening to a letter of gratitude read aloud by a coworker face-to-face: A NIRS study. N-I-R-S. I'll explain what all this means. You now know what the This is activation in The NIRS, N-I-R-S study, It's a form of imaging brain activity. It's noninvasive. So it's kind of a skullcap. It looks like a hoodie with a bunch of wires that can measure neural activity without having to remove or put a person into one of which is very invasive. It's also a wonderful tool in the laboratory to move around and to engage with one another. So in this particular is they had co-workers of thanks to another coworker, unbeknownst to the other coworker. And then they sat down together and then they imaged brain activity as this letter was being read and as the letter was And it showed very robust effects on these prefrontal networks; that pointed to the fact is actually much more potent, in terms of the positive than giving gratitude. So this raises a couple First of all, if you are to write letters of gratitude, ideally I think it's requisite that these be genuine or saying things that are This could be by text or You have within you a very potent form of shifting somebody else's neurology. Now, that's wonderful, and I think there are many But for many people who want to experience the positive effects of gratitude, it's probably not the to just sit around waiting, hoping that someone's going to deliver all these letters or words of gratitude. How is it that you can create that sense of receiving and thereby derive the as outlined in this particular study? And there we go back to the important work of the great Antonio Damasio who explored these neural to define the areas of the brain that are associated with like the prefrontal cortex. And what's really that Demasio and colleagues they used functional So this is a very high resolution approach to exploring what areas And has very high, what we meaning you can see things So a lot of mechanistic detail, it can emerge from these sorts of studies. What they did was interesting. Rather than have people express gratitude, they had the subjects go into the scanner, so their brains are being imaged, and they watched narratives, experiencing positive And in this case, these These were stories about So that's what they're watching. The subjects were subjects that were not survivors of genocide. So they were watching these videotapes of people that had genocide, and had people help them along the way as part of their story of survival, either psychological and/or... Obviously they survive long So, or physical survival. So within these stories, there was a conveyance These people talked about they were in, but also features of their history that had led to their own feelings of gratitude. So for instance, it says a woman at the... This is literally from Somebody had been sick for weeks. So the woman's describing how And then another prisoner who was a doctor finds a particular medicine somehow, it doesn't describe how, and Or an ally who was also gave this person a pair of glasses when their eyesight started to falter. So these sorts of stories. Now just hearing this in the context of nothing but a scientific these probably aren't that impactful. What's really important about this study and is really important is that these stories of that were powerful for them is embedded in story. And the human brain especially We have neural circuits past, present future, protagonists and antagonists. From the time we're very young until the time we're very old, story is one of the major ways that we organize information in the brain. There does seem to be storytelling and story listening circuits in the brain. So what's important is not simply that these people survived genocide. That's obviously important and wonderful. But it's not just that they it's that the description of their help is embedded in a larger story. So the human subject in is watching these powerful stories. And the neural circuits associated and with gratitude become robustly active when they start to feel some affiliation with the person telling the story. They start to feel some resonance. We might call that empathy, but it doesn't necessarily Empathy is a somewhat because it involves of one's own emotions and or experiencing almost entirely It could be sympathy, it could be empathy. What we do know is that were able to shift the in this study and activate these, what we're calling gratitude circuitry that involves the prefrontal cortex. So if you think about the earlier study that receiving gratitude to activate these circuits for gratitude, the subjects in this study in many ways are receiving a sense of gratitude, but through the narrative of Which I find fascinating. I would have thought a is when you sit down and list out all the things you're grateful for. That just seems so logical to me. But it turns out that these neurocircuits That to really activate in the serotonin and that probably the oxytocin system as well, one has to powerfully of receiving help, okay? The subjects are associating or experiencing empathy or sympathy for somebody else who received help. In the other study we the person hearing the letter and that would amplify the And that takes us to a larger theme of, what are these pro-social circuits? And an important concept is one that's most often associated with the autism literature, frankly, which is this idea of theory of mind. So just very briefly, theory of mind is the ability to attribute or of another without actually experiencing the thing that they're experiencing. Again, it kind of sounds like empathy, but this was actually a term in the psychology and neuroscience, that's been linked to associated with brain areas and so forth, that was looking at autistic The person largely responsible is Simon Baron-Cohen. I believe he's either the I can't remember recall which, to the comedian Sasha Baron-Cohen. Simon Baron-Cohen is a or at least he was the And the theory of mind or on children. And we can sort of do if you like, and you can think if you were a subject in Theory of mind test or some other adults, sitting down and watching a video of a child going into a room opening up a desk or a or a desk drawer and like a pen or a toy, and then leaving. And then another person and clearly looking for and one presumes it's the toy or the pen, depending on the context. People who have strong theory of mind make the obvious conclusion for the pen or the toy is They don't know where the toy is, they're looking for the toy. Someone who is fairly far or Asperger's spectrum will simply focus on the location of the object, on the location of the pen or the toy. And this is especially true in children. They will say, well, it's it's in the second drawer. And they'll say, well, how does the person who comes into the room feel? And they'll say, well, it's in the drawer. So they tend to focus on the of the scenario rather into the mind of the other person. So-called theory of mind. Now that doesn't mean and Asperger's don't have empathy. In some cases they can. It sort of depends on where and so forth. But theory of mind has very strong basis in these prefrontal cortex neural circuits that we were talking about. Because, as you now know, the prefrontal cortex sets context on what we see and experience. And the theory of mind task that I just described very of context setting, right? It's not about just the factual elements about the location of the Someone is looking for something that someone else put someplace that makes it such that So basically theory of to put yourself into And in order to get activation one needs to put themselves or to directly receive gratitude. So let's just take a moment how we are going to build out the ultimate gratitude practice; meaning the most effective for us to do because of all that an effective gratitude if it's the proper one. It's very clear that receiving but it's also very clear to receive that gratitude Now, there are methods by my colleague at Stanford, that actually have developed for school, for coworkers and students to write out particular what they're thankful for And so those are very useful practices. I don't want to take anything that Kelly and others have done. But in the absence of having other people to do these practices with, what we know for sure is that there has to be a real experience of somebody else's experience. And that the best way to do that is story. So, in thinking about how to build out an effective gratitude practice, it's very worthwhile, I believe, to find someone's narrative And many ways to think about this is, it's got to be a story that inspires you because of the, for the beauty of the human spirit, or the ability of humans And I find this remarkable is that the circuits for gratitude are such that we can exchange gratitude. We can actually observe someone else giving help. And that observation of our species doing that for one another, allows us to experience the and neural circuit Very, very different the things that you're And so, how would you do this? Well, people digest story in People watch movies, people read books. There are a tremendous It's clear that an has to be repeated from time to time. So what I would not suggest in which you're constantly foraging for inspirational stories Social media and the internet That's not going to be a because the most potent is going to be one that you Rather, the most is going to be either to think into, and you could write this out if you like, but think into when somebody was thankful for something that you did, and really start to in receiving that gratitude, and/or I should say, imagining the emotional experience of Now, what narrative you select is going to be very dependent It's going to be very dependent But again, I want to that you select does not to your own life experience, is just about what happens to move you. And so, the way that one could do this, and actually I've started on the basis of the learnings around preparing for this episode, is to find a story that's And then to just take some short notes, bullet point notes about on just a small sheet of if that's your preference, you know, what the struggle was, what the help was, and something about how that This is something just for you. You don't have to share it with anybody. That kind of shorthand serves as your shorthand that we're calling gratitude. And actually closely mimics in these various studies. Because even though the studies I've talked about up until now, were really focused on what where someone watched a while the experiment was done, and then that's it one and done. There are other studies looking over many weeks, up to six weeks. And what one observes is that there's so-called Neuroplasticity is the brain to change in response to experience. And that these neural a familiarity with the narrative. So that, for instance, let's say you sit down the that you find particularly compelling. You've written down a few notes about what that story And then you read those out and you think into the that receiving of gratitude, or if you prefer you're doing the protocol where you're thinking about or was genuinely grateful to you, that you're thinking about that. The neural circuits become with each subsequent Now this can be done or two minutes or three minutes. This is not an extensively long practice. And that's another beauty is that they have these on so many aspects of our physiology, but these are very short practices. They're the kind of thing that you can do walking to your car. The kind of thing you can and set a timer and do, because they are really about changing your And if you have an experience or a story that's very potent for you, it becomes a sort of shortcut these pro-social networks. Meaning the activation of these circuits becomes almost instantaneous. And that's very different than a lot of other practices out there. I'm not aware of any meditation that you can do only a few times, and then within a week or so, you just have to do them for one minute. You immediately drop into that that meditation practice There are some shorter that are very potent and But gratitude and the appear to be especially plastic; meaning, especially prone to in the good sense of the word triggered, just by simply reminding yourself of this particular narrative. Now there's another very of using this narrative to a gratitude practice. And that's what story Now, earlier in the episode, I mentioned this really incredible study in which listening to a story of different individuals, and literally changed the way The title of the study of narrative stimulate synchronizes heart rate between individuals. The first author is Perez, Cell Press journal, excellent journal. And it's a really elegant study. They looked at instantaneous heart rate. They use electrocardiogram to do that, which is simply a way with very fine precision. They also looked at the as they listened to the stories. Some of you may know that are actually linked to one another in a really interesting way. The simple way to put it your heart rate speeds up a little bit, and when you exhale, your And this is because of the in your thoracic cavity. And the physicians and medical types call this respiratory sinus arrhythmia. There's a mechanism but I don't want to distract So just remember when you inhale, and when you exhale, your They looked at breathing, in different individuals. And listening to a story produced very consistent of the people who are listening, different individuals in the study who were not located in the same place when they listened to the story, listening to the story on different times, different days entirely had listening to the story. What this means for is that having a story over and over again, even if you're just using the version of your story, and real shift in your And actually that's been that an effective that can rapidly shift, not just the activation of for pro-social behaviors, but also activation of and in your lungs and the such that you can get of gratitude each time. So an important component here is that, there be some element of story, again, you don't have to listen to or read or think about the entire in order to extract these benefits, and that it be the same And as a consequence, that's into presumably a more relaxed state, because typically that's the one that's associated with gratitude. Although activation of has also been shown to create There are few studies looking at and kind of parsing the difference between gratitude and joy. I was able to find a But in general, the neural tend to overlap quite a lot with those that create a sense of gratitude. So we don't want to split The key thing is that you even if it's your own and keep coming back to That makes it a very potent tool that you can get a tremendous with even as short as Earlier, I talked about how and say, you know, I'm so that I actually hate. And in a moment, I'm going to tell you about some scientific data that proves the statement I made is true, and that you can't just lie to yourself and derive the benefits The data are also going if you are giving gratitude, but giving gratitude, that There's a really interesting studies published in scientific reports, which is a nature research journal. The title of it is Neural and Benefit Appraisal are Critical in Distinguishing Gratitude and Joy. It's a somewhat complicated study, so I'm just going to hit But basically what they did is they use functional So they could look at with very high precision. And they had people receiving money in the context of this experiment. And they had some knowledge the money that they were receiving was given to them And there were a number of including how much money was given. So in some cases it was very little, in other cases, it was modest, in other cases, it was a lot more. And they also varied the extent to which the giver of the was doing it wholeheartedly or seem to be doing it And they looked at whether scaled with the amount of money received and/or the intention of the benefactor. Whether or not the person giving the money was doing it wholeheartedly And what's remarkable is that while the amount of money given was a strong component in that they had received you know, the amount of whether or not somebody feels thanked. The stronger variable, the whether or not the person giving the money was giving it with a and not a reluctant intention. And of course, there was an interaction where the best circumstance of course, is where the person from somebody who wholeheartedly wanted to give them a lot of money. And they did every derivation of this. But this is of important. This tells us many things that extend way beyond which is that, genuine Okay? We could probably presume that. But receiving genuine thanks in determining whether or not or whether or not it's empty, regardless of the size of a gift. So this constrains our but I think in an interesting you can't make this stuff up. You can't tell yourself or that I got a lot of money even though I think that they or my boss hates me, but That stuff stings for because there are circuits that are oriented towards And in some sense, what we what these circuits want, if you will, is to receive things from people that are giving them wholeheartedly. And that tells us that that we better be giving wholeheartedly, or we are undermining that someone is going to receive from us. So we are gradually building up the ultimate gratitude practice based on the variety of that's out there. And I know that many people in developing a gratitude maybe even permanent positive effects on their neural circuitry. So with that in mind, I to a really interesting study. It's entitled effects on neural network functional connectivity and brain heart coupling. And to make a long story than that title, repeated gratitude practice changes the way that And it also changes the and your brain interact. You're familiar with the fact that your brain controls your heart because you could be that's perceived with your brain, and then your heart rate will speed up. You're probably also that if your heart rate speeds up for some reason or no reason, you're probably thinking, well, what's making my And that's because the brain and the heart are reciprocally innervated, as we say. They're talking to one It's a two way highway. This study looked at changes in so-called functional and between the brain and the heart, in response to gratitude practices. And as a control they used, what I think is very interesting, I think resentment is an apt control and quite different than gratitude. To make a long story is that a repeated gratitude practice could change the resting in emotion and If I haven't mentioned a for doing a regular this is definitely the Because what they found was could shift the functional in ways that made less likely to be active, and circuits for feelings of wellbeing, but also motivation to I find that remarkable and important because a number of people struggle with issues of motivation. A lot of people who are highly motivated also have issues with anxiety and fear. And so this study really that it's a twofer. If you have a good gratitude practice and you repeat it regularly, you reduce the fear, anxiety circuits, you increase the efficacy feel good circuits, and the circuits associated are actually enhanced as well. So that's very strong incentive and one that you use regularly. We'll talk about how I don't want to go into too although we will put a It includes a lot of fMRI data, imaging data of different brain areas, many, many tables and examples of matrices of before and after gratitude, you do indeed have circuits whether you like it or not, we all do. And some people, just those circuits are But the remarkable thing is in the direction that I which is more sense of and less resentment and fear literally. And what's really cool is that the interventions It's incredible, five minutes long. And so, as we start to build out our ideal gratitude practice, we know that it has to First of all, it has to probably a story that you've heard in its entirety at least once. But then you can have a shorthand version, the so-called bullet points that allow you to drop into that story or the emotional So you don't have to listen And that story should be one in which you are genuinely and it made you feel good, or it could be a story about someone else genuinely Based on the description that we talked about earlier. Your gratitude practice can be very brief. I mean, it be as brief as or five minutes, which still Although in these studies, they were getting these just from five minutes Some of these papers involve on their breathing and calming themselves as they go into the gratitude practice, but that's within the five minute block. So if you decide that you're going to do a gratitude practice some calming breathing, exhale emphasized breathing, for instance, or physiological size, things on this podcast that can help calm me down 'cause they have a lot of slows your heart rate down, and then doing your gratitude It's actually not necessary, but a lot of these studies used that. I think once a narrative has been set, you've heard the story and or you have a recollection of a story where you are genuinely thanked, then I think just 60 should be sufficient. Then the question becomes, how often to repeat That's not exactly clear I can't point to any one study or four times a week. So I'm going to throw out a number which is three times a week, well, when should I do And I'll tell you what I tell everybody about almost every practice which is the best time of is when you first wake up in the morning, or before you go to sleep at So we've talked about some associated with a regular And I should mention that there's an additional It relates to a structure that I mentioned just briefly earlier, which is the so-called ACC This is an area of the brain but more and more data that the ACC is actually and is involved in understanding of others in general, even if it doesn't evoke And there are several studies that in humans who have a the ACC becomes more robustly engaged, even with these very We actually have a project in our lab. This is actually done in animal models, where animals observe other animals experiencing certain emotional states. And one of the brain areas as important for this; it's kind of a primordial form of empathy 'cause we really don't know We work on humans, in the of course we ask them and they tell us what they think they're thinking. With the mice, we ask them, but they don't tell us much Instead we measure a number But the important point is that the ACC, the anterior cingulate cortex for the generation and as it relates to feelings altruistic behaviors of and humans helping other humans. We see this in the animal So, if you want to be a gratitude practice is also going to be very especially using this where you are using of receiving gratitude as a way to tap into your Thus far, we've mainly talked on neural circuit activation, and changes a little bit that are happening in terms of the body, heart rate and breathing and so forth. But we haven't talked a in health metrics, in or reductions in inflammation and immunity and things of that sort. So with that in mind, I'd of a really interesting recent in the journal Brain This was published 2021. The title of the study is, Exploring Neural Mechanisms of Gratitude in Women: A The first author is Hazlitt. And basically, what this paper showed was that women who had a of the sort that we've been showed reductions in amygdala activity; a brain area associated a intimate part of the So reductions in amygdala activation, and large reductions in the production of something called TNF-alpha, and IL-6, interleukin six. Now, if you happen to have that I did on activating and immune function, you heard TNF-alpha and IL six are These are chemicals and that are released from or kind of a systemic stress; And in the short-term, They can call in signals for wound healing and repair of cells, et cetera, but you don't want TNF-alpha and you don't want those And so, this study is really nice because they showed significant effects in reducing TNF-alpha and IL-6 in response to a gratitude practice. And because they also observed reductions in amygdala activation, this area associated with it's likely, and I 'cause I don't know, that the direction of the effect is that there are neural circuit changes, which in turn shift the degree to which these inflammatory cytokines are released in the body. Although for all I know, it It could be that having shifts something about which in turn lowers the and that in turn reduces We don't really know the direction but if I had to speculate, that it was a shift in neural circuitry that led to a change in And another interesting is that the reductions and the reductions in TNF-alpha They occurred almost immediately after the gratitude And even though that study was performed exclusively on female subjects, based on the biology and and the biology of TNF-alpha and IL-6 performing this inflammatory I don't see any reason why the results of that to both men and women. So what about the chemistry Are there certain chemicals in our brain or that we could enhance in our brain that would enhance our gratitude practice? Indeed, there are. And earlier I mentioned the chemical, the neuromodulator serotonin on the activation of neural circuits associated pro-social and other sort of feel good behaviors. To make a long story short, neuromodulators like and norepinephrine tend of external perception, meaning a state of observing outside the immediate reach of our body and confines of our skin. They tend to put us in pursuit, or in thinking about or out away from our physical body. Whereas the neuromodulators serotonin and some of the associated and other neurochemicals tend to be associated with with what we have within and our immediate experience. So they're not so much about pursuit, but about gratitude and about appreciation for what we already have. I'd be remiss if I didn't that if one were to shift their chemistry toward having higher levels of serotonin, you would, by all logic, experience heightened levels of gratitude. And indeed some people do this. They will take compounds There are a number of compounds I'm certainly not A couple of the supplement based legal, over-the-counter approaches to this are things like 5-HTP, which Some people will take 5-HTP to try and enhance their sleep. I'm not a fan of doing that, personally. I've talked about this But the state that we call and important architecture as And by taking serotonin by supplement or by stimulating serotonin with 5-HTP or with tryptophan, which is an amino acid one can run into the problem of disrupting the normal throughout the night. I experienced that as, if I've I fall asleep very deeply, but then I wake up three hours later and I can't fall asleep at all. And actually it sometimes the subsequent night. Some people are not so and they actually really like it. So again, you have to talk to your doctor, decide what's right for you. You're responsible for And you have to determine Everyone's slightly individual. But one could imagine enhancing in their brain and body by before a gratitude practice, that seems a little bit extreme given that the gratitude to five minutes long on a regular basis, but there may be instances in which you're really trying in the brain and body that and therefore that might be something that you want to explore. There's a new compound that's out there. A legal over-the-counter compound. At least it's legal in the United States, I don't know about overseas. And that's a compound It's an interesting compound. It goes by another name as well, which is, and I'm going to mispronounce this is Sceletium tortuosum. Please see our timestamps if you want to see the spelling of that. But I'll just call it Kanna, It's an herb that is traditionally chewed prior to stressing endeavors, is how it's described on an examine.com. But I looked at some It's kind of interesting. It very likely increases the and pretty potently. It is generally taken in dosages of anywhere from 25 to 50 milligrams. And it creates a kind of a or I should say gratitude circuitry pro-social neurocircuitry enhancing effect because of the ways that it interacts with the certain urgent So it also has another name, it's sometimes called Again, I'm not suggesting and take this stuff. But there is an emerging practice of people using Zembrine, also called Kanna, K-A-N-N-A, in order to enhance the and pleasure with what one has in their immediate sphere of experience. And so one could imagine if it's safe for you and right for you and legal where you live by taking Kanna and then What's the logic behind that? Well, oftentimes we hear about supplements and pharmacology or &quot;opening plasticity.&quot; You know, if I had a dollar I hear that such and Well, indeed there are molecules associated with the thing But neuroplasticity is not meaning it has many, many steps. It occurs during wakefulness, it's consolidated during Taking a substance that increases a neurochemical in your brain will likely, provided it's the right substance and it's the right practice, will likely enhance the of that practice and make of inducing neuroplasticity. Meaning it will create longer lasting or more robust brain changes than if one hadn't increased this way of taking something. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you couldn't get to the by simply doing a slightly or putting a little bit That said, I think the really resides in not just one approach, not just neurochemistry to increase neuroplasticity, not just behavioral practices to try and increase neuro-plasticity, not just brain machine interfaces or devices to increase neuro-plasticity, but rather the convergence So you could imagine enhancing as we say in the brain using something like Kanna, combined with a gratitude practice. In the not-too-distant future, this will probably also be combined with some sort of noninvasive device to stimulate the prefrontal Please don't do that recreationally. Those devices are for But I think you start to get the idea. So for those of you that are and you want to go in and I thought you might I certainly did. There are a number of studies I recommend using examine.com There are some decent studies that they described in their So those are studies done on humans. And the main effects in the scientific literature are minor, but significant increases in Executive function is something that's also associated and reductions in anxiety. And that seems to be a common theme that we're seeing again and again. You saw this in the study, the trial where we saw and reductions amygdala activation. Which would ostensibly lead You're seeing increases in that are associated with So again, back to that kind of push-pull of defensive anxiety and being antagonistic, as we say, to the circuits that are feeling good, receiving good feelings, type circuitry and events in life. So as you now know, about how gratitude can positively impact neural circuits in the brain. Anti-inflammatory markers in the body, brain-heart breathing I'd like to just of the most effective, gratitude practice. And when I say the most effective, what I'm doing is I'm gleaning I was able to find and of those studies into what and what should certainly gratitude practice for all the positive First of all, that gratitude practice has to be grounded in a You don't have to recite every single time you do but you have to know what that story was and what the gratitude Second of all, that story can be one of you receiving genuine thanks. And the key elements there are that you are the one the gratitude, and that it's being given to Or it can be a story of receiving thanks or expressing thanks. And that has to be a both between the giver and the receiver. So, those are the first three elements. What I recommend would be the story that you want to use that you write down three that can serve as salient it will serve as kind without having to listen to, I would recommend writing down something about the state that you before they received the gratitude, the state that you were in after they received the gratitude, and any other elements that lend some sort of emotional weight or tone to the story. This could be three pages or it could just be a I don't think it really matters. The important thing is that and that it's really associated with this genuine exchange of thanks, and the receival of things. I think those are the key elements. And then it's very simple: The entire practice involves as a cue to your nervous system And then for about one minute, which is a trivial amount of time if you really think about or if you're really of just really feeling into of having received gratitude or observed someone else And then in terms of frequency, would be to do that And the time of day doesn't really matter. I can't see why there would be any so-called circadian effects of this. I know some people like before they go to sleep at night. I don't see any problem with doing this before you go to sleep at night. I also don't see any on your lunch break or mid-morning or first thing in the morning. I can't see any logic for and not another. So I think the most important thing is that you do it at And as mentioned before, So there are very few barriers So if we just take a step and compare it to what's in the literature, which is, make a list of all the recite in your mind all the count your blessings. So I think everybody should all the time. There's always something But in terms of a scientifically that has also scientifically demonstrated to shift your physiology at and your look neurocircuitry, reducing anxiety, increasing motivation, all these wonderful are chasing all the time as goals, I think a gratitude to be an immensely powerful tool for any and all of us to use. And that should come as no surprise because these pro-social are not a recent phenomenon. Discussions about gratitude if not thousands of years. What we've done today is right up until 2021, and to really distill from the neurochemistry, the various aspects of brain-body connectivity, take various subject groups. Some were done in women, some were done between two individuals, some were done with brain imaging, all the various changes on a theme that allow us to point to a simple, but very effective protocol around Thanksgiving. But Thanksgiving is just, but one day throughout the entire year, of course. I personally have been for the last several years. But that protocol was based about the scientific literature, and was mainly based on what I'd heard out which is that I should or verbally recite the The sort of protocol based on the scientific literature is distinctly different from that. And as a consequence, a protocol identical to and I intend to use that going forward. If you're learning from please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero In addition, please subscribe And on Apple, you have the opportunity to leave us a comment and Also, please check out our sponsors mentioned at the that's the best way to In addition, we have a Patreon. It's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support this podcast at any level that you like. During today's episode, and I mentioned supplements. Supplements aren't for everybody. But if you are going to use supplements, it's imperative that the supplements be of the very highest quality. For that reason we've that's T-H-O-R-N-E, because Thorne supplements have the highest levels of stringency, in terms of the quality of and the precision of the they include in their products. They've partnered with as well as the Mayo Clinic, so we're delighted to be If you want to see the you can go to thorne.com/u/huberman, and there you can see all and you can get 20% off Or if you navigate into the thorne.com/u/huberman, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. Thank you for your time learning about the science of gratitude. And last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]