Welcome back it is now 15 after the hour. After centuries, maybe longer than that who knows, they have developed the yoga practice With us right know is his name is Swami Hariharananda Giri, he has been in Orlando, will be on his tour, Welcome, thank you very much How many different types of yoga are taught in India? There are 108 types of Yoga in India. 108? Types of Yoga. Apart of this, there are many paths And there... So there are many, Your speciality which you teach is called Kriya Yoga. Yes, I teach Kriya Yoga. Tell us what that is. Why is it different from other Yoga? I am telling now. Mother, In Kriya there is two syllables, Kri and Ya. Kri means work... Work? Work, whole day and night, But a dead man cannot do work. The power of God who is pulling breath from within, that is Ya, soul. Soul and body together they are doing work Whole day and night any work people And Yoga means union of body and soul. Body is there and also soul is abiding inside, And He is doing work. In ancient time God brought that was the first teaching there was no Rama, no Krishna, no Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, no Jesus, no spiritual books on that time, no Veda, Upanishads, Patanjali, Shankar, Bible, Thora etc. Koran. Only they were teaching breath control. That is Kriya Yoga. It is not religion. It depends upon four techniques. Prathyahara, that one... What is the first one? Pratyahara, first is pratyahara, Our mind is covered with thought, intellect, And by the practice of Kriya Yoga within 2 minutes time So you have to quiet your mind. Quiet. In a moment time he will be free from all thoughts and he will get knowledge, consciousness and super consciousness. That is Kriya. And after pratyahara you will get dharana, dhyana - Who is abiding and Who is in here right? Within you. Within every human being. And God is not far, He is all pervading, So I am telling in ancient time they were teaching this they are getting prathyahara, dharana, That you can perceive. And then samadhi. Samadhi means that you are absorbed in God Two things at a time. That is called Kriya Yoga. We teach simultaneous development By the scientific technique of Kriya Yoga. Kriya Yoga is a scientific technique. It is not a religious technique, No, no. This is a... As you are sleeping on that time your are taking You have no thought, no anger, You are only sleeping, and you are taking deep oxygen, and that is going straight to the brain, and your brain You get extreme energy. Power rejuvenates and regenerates. This is Kriya Yoga, is that type of breath, but I tell that the real realized Yogi who has penetrated behind the veil of nature's splendors and who has really perceived and has really reached to calmness, to the knowledge, consciousness, super consciousness and They will really perceive and they can infuse And within short period within 4 minutes time, the power will come up from the lower center Jesus said you are born from below of the flesh so you have to be born from above through water and spirit. We are teaching the same thing. How the people will come up from the lower center. From his money center, from his sex center. They will watch that money center is there That work is, money work is going on In this way food, you are getting hunger, appetite, That your breath. Through this you are getting appetite and You are... dead men can not eat food, Similarly in the heart center The God made men in his own image and It is the feature of God. All our bad thoughts, any thought On the right lobe and that you can change in the pons if you practice Kriya Yoga immediately you can charge First technique you are magnetizing your spine. Just you are bending your body and touching your head. I am demonstrating that I am sitting straight It sees very easy so far. So the power is coming on the top. If you bow in this way seven times then you can get divine power. That your power will immediately come up. And power will rejuvenate and regenerate and In the drum of milk, if you churn the milk On the top. Again you can not mix up. Similarly the human body is full of delusion, By the practice of Kriya Yoga you can remove And you can perceive the power of God is giving Then automatically you will remain in the family and you can perceive God in your every step of your life. This is Kriya Yoga. And second technique is this, that So you are giving pressure on the liver, and after that we are stretching our leg and our left nostril is full of catarrh so So if you do not get equal pressure of breath Similarly we are giving pressure on the left side. And you do it on the other side And bending. Both nostrils will be free. So our thoughts, bad thoughts, that we can easily transform it on the left side. So our love will flourish, our bond between two friends You will be sweet, kind, loving. What is in God the purity, perfection, kindness, So if they practice it, And they will feel that He is in the material world also. The power of God is activating through their body. And do it in four minutes? Within four minutes. Once a day? Is it once a day? You have to practice only ten minutes time. Ten minutes? But we are purifying the body. On that time it takes only four minutes time. Within four minutes time In 50 body parts. Every part will get divine sound, Even in the infinity, you will not feel that you will feel that this body is limited body, that is remaining up to the infinity. You will feel vibration even on the infinity. It is a rare opportunity. It's incredible. So... if we can take care of our anger... This is not hinduism, this is not any religion. It is the synthesis of three Yogas. Kri means work, through work you are getting knowledge, through knowledge you are getting love. Doctor is a student, then people they are giving love to the doctor. Similarly this body is a human body, It is called human body. God in human being, human being in God. I can sit and talk to you for a long time and I will but We are out of time. Namaste.