Sand. It's coarse, it's rough, and it can make for it's just one example of the many earthy storage (or TES). A while back, we covered the which is big enough to supply sand-based energy storage has reached a like Batsand are currently offering heat directly to your door. Seems you can get But what's stopped us from experimenting storage impact our lives in our homes? And where I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Factor and all Your utility bill probably already tells heating and cooling our homes. In fact, over 30% of total US residential Water heating comes in at about 13%, temperature control. According to the U.S. one-fifth of all energy produced in the United Residential battery systems like way to get around what some consider intermittency. But the dominance of lithium-ion like some of those ecological Thermal batteries or thermal energy storage worth watching. We've examined them When it comes to TES, the acronym batteries that store energy as heat. through a heating element embedded in your sand or whatever, so long as it can hold can then discharge and release the heat at a When used in combination with TESs can do some amazing things. As far back a record-breaking 96% of their yearly that number jumped 100%. That was in TESs tend to have very good round-trip percentage of electricity put into storage that's of energy storage device. A 100% RTE would mean and used later. It's also thermodynamically have an RTE of about 70%. Lithium-Ion batteries industrial-scale energy storage facilities and But commercial and industrial thermal batteries This got a lot of innovators thinking... if v why not bring them home? But can TESs why haven't we tried this sooner? But first...why sand? I don't like sand. If you've ditching your flip flops a little too soon, you're well. That's because sand has low specific to heat up fast. And sand's high density allows chemical reactions means sand batteries are We can also heat it to well above the boiling an RTE well above 90%. For these reasons we've buzz around their commercial sand batteries. then we use air to move the heat from so why haven't we been doing it all along? We'll dig a little deeper on this question later, first ... and that's a tasty treat from today's talking about about this. I've been a Factor well before they were ever a sponsor. I've been and eat more vegetarian meals (I'm still not a hectic it's made it difficult to do that. That's I've been eating more well rounded meals that been partial to their Calorie Smart and Vegan for everyone. It's taken the guesswork out of Not only does it fit my hectic schedule, but meal right at home ... and for less money than and they're delicious. What's also great is that they source 100% renewable electricity for sustainably-sourced seafood. No prep, no mess, FACTOR75 dot com or click the link below and use box and Free Wellness Shots for Life! Two free every order while you are an active subscriber. get early ad free versions of my videos, and why haven't we been doing home TES all along? The main reason is size. Mass matters, especially for storing heat! I don't but I don't really have room in my garage That's where companies like Latvian-based these devices down to a residential size, so underground ... not unlike a septic tank. This tank is going to measure 40 cubic meters. Though tank underground helps to keep everything well Better yet, sand is dirt cheap, non-toxic, and (if organic materials) non-flammable. Numbers-wise, buildings and can store 10,680 kW/h. That's 30-plus kW of solar panels on your property. that massive sand tank. Just like a geothermal talk about that first hand. Something to keep in Netherlands-based Newton Energy Solutions (NES) though. They're keeping it simple with a no-frills a water heater, and a buffer tank. Fun side-note: technically speaking. It's just one that But seeing as you're already spending most of an issue. No surprise then that the NEStore looks if you don't have enough space for both, the The NEStore combines special vacuum insulation these two small advantages allow the more heat than other devices in its weight The smaller one has water volumes The larger one is 320 liters and a even the smaller size can heat 600 liters of tap As a nice sustainability cherry on from fully recyclable materials. Their existing water heaters and work with it can install a NEStore in your house in see what third-parties say once the NEStore So if TESs are so great, and why have we overlooked them until but the most prominent one is size. but as I mentioned earlier, bigger things your thermal energy storage device, it But it's hard to both go big and go home. It and home deployment, and of course, really traditionally made TESs a hard sell, especially heating are comparatively cheap and small. This solar farm or home solar panels to a less mature like lithium-ion batteries, are available? company, it's hard to take a risk on a The numbers also don't look as good if you because a small but significant amount of statistically speaking, you're already spending so saving and later using that energy as that TES devices work well in tandem with other Letting the TES handle the lion's share of the handle other electrical applications. It's However, every time energy is converted from TESs have remarkable efficiency when their efficiency drops to a much less exciting 50-70% electricity. Compare this to 90% for lithium-ion and you can see why adoption has been slow. like a residential chemical battery system, and device, you're probably going for the more Speaking of affordability, that's also a major has a EUR5,000 to EUR6000 price tag, which is about do include installation, though I worry those stage. Batsand's smaller 14kW system will $7,700. But with installation it balloons to That kind of price point means these devices However, these high prices do buy you some theirs over email, a business development Similarly, Andre Raimundo, the head of operations store energy at a 92% efficiency, and use that these are likely "best-case scenario" figures, but of performance, it's challenging to get homeowners unless they're really into energy independence For these reasons, thermal batteries have 200-year existence. Demand really only partly because TES devices are only as green as for example. As recently as 2010, a typical four times more emissions than gas water energy to heat that kind of thing, and that But now, with green energy being more generation to storage, electric resistance water looking better and better. According to Sydney's electric heaters will be radically more energy pump water heaters already are, and I've got And speaking of heat pumps, it's looking likely hope they do, considering how they could work with it: Your solar panels gather energy for your devices will keep your home at a cozy temperature off on your battery system's plate, it has more The synergies at play here are just so cool. and installing solar panels, a heat pump, battery Here in the US, TESs are more affordable Act (IRA). That's because many of the IRA TES units. That means you can get a whopping to a 40% tax credit for projects made with way toward making them more affordable for this on the table, I think we'll see an manufacture -- and competition should help make So where does this leave us? I really here. Thermal energy batteries are just market. When we circle back to I won't be surprised at all if there's But what do you think? Do you want home? Jump into the comments and let